{"id": "28169313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28169313", "title": "Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011", "text": "Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011\n\nThe Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011/61/EU (or \"AIFMD\" for short) is an EU law on the financial regulation of hedge funds, private equity, real estate funds, and other \"Alternative Investment Fund Managers\" (AIFMs) in the European Union. The Directive requires all covered AIFMs to obtain authorisation, and make various disclosures as a condition of operation. It followed the global financial crisis. Before, the alternative investment industry had not been regulated at EU level.\n\nIt was reported in May 2014 that only one-third of EU member states had successfully implemented the directive into law. As of 2014, the countries that had transposed AIFMD into law include Cyprus, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, (Germany), France, Malta and Ireland. In December 2014, the European Commission issued a formal warning to countries including Spain, Latvia and Poland for not complying with AIFMD implementation.\n\nThe AIFMD was prompted as part of a wider regulatory effort undertaken by G20 nations following the global market downturn of 2008. Provisions of the AIFMD include increasing transparency by AIFMs and assuring that national supervisors, the European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA), and the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB) have the information they need to monitor financial systems in the EU. The AIFMD also is intended to protect investors.\n\nOn the need for the directive, an explanatory document from the European Commission stated that AIFMs had become \"very significant actors in the European financial system, managing a large quantity of assets on behalf of pension funds and other investors; accounting for a significant proportion of trading activity in financial markets; and constituting an important source of counterparty risk for other market participants\" and that they had \"contributed to the build-up of leverage in the financial system, the consequences of which for the stability of financial markets became apparent when leverage in the hedge fund sector was rapidly unwound during the crisis\".\n\nWhen the directive was approved by the European Parliament, José Manuel Barroso, then President of the European Commission, said \"The adoption of the directive means that hedge funds and private equity will no longer operate in a regulatory void outside the scope of supervisors. The new regime brings transparency and security to the way these funds are managed and operate, which adds to the overall stability of our financial system.\"\n\nThe scope of the application of the directive is defined. The directives apply to EU AIFMs which manage one or more AIFs irrespective of whether such AIFs are EU AIFs or non-EU AIFs; non-EU AIFMs which manage one or more EU AIFs; and non-EU AIFMs which market one or more AIFs in the Union irrespective of whether such AIFs are EU AIFs or non-EU AIFs. Specific entities that are exempt from the directives are also listed.\n\nAn AIFM must be authorised with the AIFM's home state regulator for AIFMs that have assets under management in AIFs above the thresholds of: (1) 100 million EUR, if the AIF uses leverage; or (2) 500 million EUR, if the AIF does not use leverage.\n\nThe AIFMD's reporting regulations require each AIF to be named using a series of codes, including its national identification code, the Bank Identifier Code (BIC) and the Legal Entity Identifier code. AIFMs must select only brokers and counterparties that are subject to regulatory supervision, that are financially sound, and that have the necessary organizational structure to provide services to the AIFM or the AIF. All AIFMs must submit quarterly, semi-annual, or annual reports to their respective member state regulator with information about the AIFM and its AIFs as well as an annual report with information such as the fund's financial statements, activities, and information about the total amount of remuneration paid by the AIFM to its staff.\n\nSpecial requirements apply to AIFMs using leverage. AIFMs are required to disclose the extent of the leverage employed within their funds, and prove that leverage in any fund has been limited to a reasonable amount. The scope of AIFMD requirements that apply to AIFMs are different, depending on whether the AIFM is engaged in portfolio or risk management activities within the EU or markets its funds to EU investors. Each fund can only have one AIFM, though the AIFM can delegate certain functions to other entities. EU AIFMs became subject to all of the provisions of the AIFMD once it was implemented at the EU Member State level. Authorised fund managers located within the EU are permitted to market their EU funds to professional investors in any EU member state under what the AIFMD calls a passport.\n\nThe reporting requirements of the AIFMD apply to all AIFMs who manage or market alternative funds within the EU. To fulfill the reporting requirements, AIFMs must file an Annex IV report within 30 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, which is determined by the amount of an AIFM's assets under management. Reporting periods range from quarterly to half-yearly to annually. The Annex IV report is a government regulatory document comprising 41 questions, analysing a fund's investment portfolios, exposures, leverage ratios, liquidity and risk analysis.\n\nIn chapter V, section 2, articles 26–30, additional obligations apply for AIFs acquiring controlling influence in non-listed companies. This is essentially directed at private equity firms, and partly aims to stop asset stripping. Article 26(5) defines \"control\" as holding over 50% of voting rights, including as a ‘club deal’. This was watered down from 30% in the AIFMD draft (formerly in article 26(1)(a)). Article 27(1) states that funds have to notify investee companies and shareholders when they acquire control, and article 28(4) requires them to disclose the acquisition to stakeholder groups including employees or representatives via the investee's board. Article 29 places an obligation on the central Private Equity management company (rather than an investee companies) to give information on operational and financial developments in firm's annual reports. Article 30 lists distribution requirements, which are intended to prevent asset stripping in the first 24 months from acquiring control).\n\nFor the purposes of the directive, marketing is defined as any offering or placement (sale) of an AIF at the initiative of the AIFM, or on behalf of the AIFM, to investors domiciled in the EU. Member state laws and rules determine whether a fund is engaged in marketing for purposes of the directive.\n\nEU funds managed by EU managers may be marketed across the EU under the AIFMD passport, provided the manager complies with all of the requirements of the directive. EU or non-EU funds managed by non-EU managers may currently be marketed within the EU only under national private placement regimes, as non-EU managers cannot obtain the marketing passport.\nLikewise, non-EU funds managed by EU managers may only be marketed under the private placement regimes. Funds marketed under national private placement regimes are subject to compliance with certain provisions of the AIFMD related to reporting, regulatory co-operation agreements, and the jurisdiction of the fund and the manager not being listed as a \"non-cooperative country and territory\" by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF).\n\nIn 2015, an analyst for EurActiv.com, a European news and policy website, expressed concern that the directive puts non-EU funds at a disadvantage. In 2015, the European Securities and Markets Authority initiated a consultation to discuss issuing new rules to allow EU AIFMs to market their non-EU AIFs under the AIFMD passport, and likewise for non-EU managers to market their funds under the AIFMD passport. In July 2016 AIFM concluded that there were no fundamental obstacles to issuing AIFMD passports to Canada, Guernsey, Japan, Jersey and Switzerland, seven other non-EU countries are also under consideration.\n\nThe directive came into force on 21 July 2011. On 16 November 2011, ESMA issued technical advice to the European Commission (EC) on possible implementation measures for the AIFMD. On 19 December 2012, the EC added a series of new regulations to supplement the AIFMD text. EU member states were required to write the AIFMD into national law by no later than 22 July 2013. As of July 2014, not every EU member state had transposed the AIFMD into national law. Some, but not all, member states provided for a one-year transition period, beginning 22 July 2013, before AIFMs would become subject to the AIFMD requirements.\n\nThe directive has so far been supplemented by three Level II Regulations: \n\nThe European Securities and Markets Authority has also issued a number of guidelines to national competent authorities including on key concepts of AIFMD and remuneration.\n\nSince 1 April 2013, the FMA Liechtenstein accepts applications for authorisation of AIFMs and AIFs as well as other persons and entities requiring authorisation under the AIFM Act.\nOn 30 September 2016, the EEA Joint Committee, whose decisions result in the inclusion of new EU law in the EEA Agreement, decided to incorporate the first package of legal acts relating to the European Supervisory Authorities (ESAs).\n\nOn 27 June 2013 (the measures were released on 25 June 2013) Malta became the first EU Member State to complete the transposition of the requirements of the Directive into national law. The Maltese legislator and the Malta Financial Services Authority transposed the requirements of the Directive by means of a series of regulations issued under the Investment Services Act (Cap. 370, Laws of Malta) and a number of new MFSA rulebooks. = EU-Passport\n\nIn Luxembourg, the AIFM directive was transposed into national law on 12 July 2013. According to the 2013 law an entity – in order to become an AIFM – will have to submit an application to, and obtain authorisation from, the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). The application must include information on the directors of the AIFM, its shareholders, and the alternative investment funds (AIF), which it intends to manage and demonstrate how the entity will comply with the requirements of the AIFM Law.\n\nThe AIFM directive was transposed into France's national law on 27 July 2013.\n\nIn a study conducted by Multifonds in June 2014, 72% of respondents from the EU and Canada said they expected non-EU managers to set up European operations in order to take advantage of AIFMD. In a 2014 study conducted by Preqin, 71% of American fund managers said they believed the AIFMD would have a negative effect on the industry. Fund managers from within the EU, Asia and the rest of the world excluding the United States reported in 2014 and 2015 that the AIFMD was costing them more than they had expected it to. Criticism of the costs of the legislation comes partly from industry lobbyists.\n\nAccording to a study conducted by Deloitte, most of the UK-based asset managers think that the AIFM Directive could reduce the competitiveness of the EU's alternative investment funds industry because of the compliance the regulations impose on the industry. In addition, these managers from the hedge fund, private equity and real estate sectors believe that the directive will reduce the number of non-EU managers operating within the EU. The AIFMD passed after contentious negotiations, especially between UK and French authorities, and because of its third-country provisions, which attracted considerable interest and engagement from U.S. authorities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218780", "title": "American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals", "text": "American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals\n\nThe American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) is a non-profit organization dedicated to preventing cruelty to animals. Based in New York City since its inception in 1866, the organization's mission is \"to provide effective means for the prevention of cruelty to animals throughout the United States.\"\n\nFollowing the creation of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) in the United Kingdom in 1824 (given Royal status in 1840), Henry Bergh founded the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals on April 10, 1866 in New York City on the belief that animals are entitled to kind and respectful treatment at the hands of humans, and must be protected under the law. It is the oldest animal welfare organization in the United States. Founded in 1866, the ASPCA was the first humane organization in the Western Hemisphere. Buffalo's chapter, founded in 1867, is the second oldest. ASPCA was founded to stop the injustices animals face across the United States. On February 8, 1866, Bergh pleaded on behalf of animals at a meeting at Clinton Hall in New York City. Some of the issues he discussed were cockfighting and the horrors of slaughterhouses. After getting signatures for his \"Declaration of the Rights of Animals,\" Bergh was given an official charter to incorporate ASPCA on April 10, 1866. On April 19, 1866, the first anti-cruelty law was passed since the founding of ASPCA, and the organization was granted the right to enforce anti-cruelty laws. At that time, there were three staff members at the ASPCA. In 1867, ASPCA operated its first ambulance for injured horses and advocated alternatives for inhumane actions toward animals such as horses, live pigeons, cats and dogs. By the time of Bergh's death in 1888, 37 out of the 38 states in the union had enacted anti-cruelty laws that were enforced by the ASPCA. Early goals of ASPCA focused on efforts for horses and livestock, since at the time they were used for a number of activities.\n\nStarting at the turn of the 20th century, small domestic animals, like cats and dogs, became the focus for members of ASPCA. ASPCA wrote its first annual report in 1867 after a man was sentenced to 2 years in prison for beating a cat to death.\n\nFrom 1894 to 1994, the ASPCA operated the municipal animal shelter system in New York City which inevitably euthanized unadopted animals. Starting in 1977, the ASPCA entered into a contract with New York City Department of Health to receive municipal funding to operate the shelter system. This created the effect of being increasingly reliant on government contracting/government income rather than private donations. This resulted in being subject to the effects of yearly city budget appropriations. In 1993, the ASPCA decided that operating the kill shelter system for New York City conflicted with its mission and discouraged private donations. The group then terminated its contract for operating the shelter system. The agreement for operation of the Humane Law Enforcement Division remained unchanged by this action. Operation of the shelter system was transferred to Center for Animal Care and Control in 1995.\nOne of the early goals of ASPCA was to improve the health and welfare of animals. The first animal hospitals under ASPCA were created in 1912. Since the creation of these hospitals, ASPCA found a new tactic in improving its cause: the ability to develop various medical procedures and innovations with help from new discoveries in medicine and technology. Some of these procedures and innovations include the following:\n\nThis initiative is designed to assist individuals' care for their animals in a proper and ethical way. Some services offered to assist individuals are:\n24 hour animal poison control line requires $65 payment by credit card\n\nThis program is designed as an initiative to take steps to take care and provide for at-risk animals around the country. Some programs designed to help at-risk animals include:\n\nThe ASPCA describes itself as the nation's main humane organization, \"providing local and national leadership in three key areas: caring for pet parents and pets, providing positive outcomes for at-risk animals and serving victims of animal cruelty\". Aside from rescuing animals, the ASPCA is also involved with disaster preparedness and management. For instance, prior to Hurricane Gustav making landfall in Louisiana on September 1, 2008, the ASPCA checked in more than 800 animals into a shelter located in Shreveport. The ASPCA, along with the American Humane Association, maintained a 24-hour presence at the shelter.\nThe ASPCA works primarily with companion animal issues, such as pet care, equine or horse cruelty issues, and animal cruelty and neglect. Its programs and services include: a national poison control hotline for pet owners and animal health professionals; a shelter outreach program to promote best practices within locally owned shelters, a corporate partner program to promote animal-friendly products and services, and a special anti-cruelty initiative to teach animal welfare education and animal welfare law enforcement practices (known as \"humane law enforcement\" within the organization) across the United States. In the state of New York, the ASPCA's Humane Law Enforcement division has powers to investigate cruelty and enforce laws. The Humane Law Enforcement division has been featured on the Animal Planet television program, \"Animal Precinct\".\n\nThe ASPCA provides relief services for the domestic animal victims of natural disasters such as Hurricane Katrina, where the National Outreach department collected donations to provide supplies; coordinated volunteer efforts; deployed rescue teams to recover abandoned pets; provided temporary shelter to displaced animals; and reunited pets with their owners.\n\nThe ASPCA has also partnered with Hartville Group, Inc to provide pet health insurance under the ASPCA name as ASPCA Pet Insurance.\n\nCases involving torture, killings and mistreatment of animals are some examples of cases handled by the ASPCA. A common example was displayed in the news in October 2008, when the ASPCA was in charge of an investigation involving the slaughtering of a beagle that lived in the Bronx. Brian McCafferty was charged with torturing and injuring his wife's beagle, Jerry, after an argument with his wife. The ASPCA conducted an necropsy that concluded that Jerry was stabbed twice and shot in the neck with a rifle. McCafferty claims that he was acting in self-defense when the dog attacked him. He was eventually released on bail.\n\nThe ASPCA has an Adopt-a-Shelter-Dog program each October where it holds events and programs, and recruits and asks potential pet owners to adopt one of the more than one million animals living in shelters across the country.\n\nAt \"ASPCA Day\" on April 10 each year, the organizes encourages supporters to wear orange—the official color of the ASPCA—to commemorate the protection of animals. ASPCA members spread their message that day using mobile adoption vans, photo booths for pets, information booths on animal cruelty laws and ways to better care for pets.\nIn 2014 the ASPCA spoke out in support of new New York City mayor Bill de Blasio's campaign to ban horse-drawn carriages in the city.\n\nIn 2012 the ASPCA agreed to pay Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus $9.3 million of donations to settle a lawsuit regarding the ASPCA's false allegations of animal cruelty by the circus. Courts found that ASPCA activists had paid the key witness, a former Ringling barn helper, at least $190,000, making him \"essentially a paid plaintiff\" who lacked credibility. Edwin J. Sayres stepped down as CEO in 2012, and in 2013 longtime ASPCA staff member Matthew Bershadker was named president and CEO.\n\nThe ASPCA is active in lobbying for animal welfare legislation, with regional and federal lobbyists covering all 50 states. The ASPCA communicates with federal and state legislators to consider animal-friendly legislation and bills. The ASPCA also drafts animal welfare legislation initiatives and proposals for legislators to consider during their sessions. The ASPCA's \"Advocacy Brigade\" allows users to write or e-mail their legislators on important animal legislation bills and referendums.\n\nIn 2008, the Illinois Senate passed the bill HB 5076. This bill contains various \"Good Samaritan\" provisions that protect rescuers from being sued if they rescue and provide for an injured animal in disasters or other emergencies. This bill also brings clarification to the Humane Care for Animals Act.\n\nThe ASPCA has three groups in which they are divided: Animal Health Services, Anti-Cruelty and Community Outreach. From those three groups, the groups have subsidiary departments. The Animal Health Services group is composed of three departments that focus on the health and well-being of animals. The Anti-Cruelty Group has eight departments that focus on different problems relating to animal cruelty. The Community Outreach Group works with multiple resources so that more animals that are classified as at risk-animals will be helped by the improvements that the group provides.\nThe ASPCA Animal Hospital is a well-equipped medical facility that gives medical care to animals in need. Life-saving treatment to animals, whose owners cannot afford the treatment, are provided by The Trooper Fund which is administrated by the Animal Hospital. Another department is the ASPCA Animal Poison Control Center, which provides treatment for natural and man-made chemical exposure poisonings. New findings are published and therefore promote poison prevention, leading to improvement of animal lives. The group also has a Mobile Spay/Neuter Clinics. The surgical mobile units help end the euthanasia of adoptable animals which serves the ASPCA Mobile Spay/Neuter Clinics mission through the recognition of overpopulation.\n\nThe Field Investigation and Response teams work with animal rescue from cases including abuse, neglect and natural-disasters or man-made disasters. Through the planning and assistance in animal rescues, the team helps local humane societies and other agencies. The also offers The Forensic Science and Anti-Cruelty department, which focuses on providing assistance in both criminal cases involving animals and any evidence surrounding animals in a crime. Through the use of the departments original research and outreach to professional disciplines related to the case, the department uses medicine, forensic science, and animal behavior to assist with the prosecution and prevention of animal cruelty. The department also provides legal assistance which can be described as, “assistance to federal, state and local law enforcement agencies as well as animal care and control agencies, local humane societies and SPCAs, veterinary associations and individual practitioners.”\n\nThe ASPCA has a partnership with the NYPD, which began in January 2014. The partnership occurred when the NYPD took on the task of answering calls of animal cruelty in the city. While the NYPD answers cruelty calls, ASPCA works with what follows, such as providing medical attention, legal backup and finding a place for the animal. The Humane Law Enforcement team maintains a relationship with the NYPD officers by giving them training on how to respond to animal cruelty cases. Not only does the program do things to benefit their goal but, “instead involve owners who face barriers to providing care to their animals due to either a lack of financial resources, access to services or other circumstances, such as domestic violence, medical or mental health challenges”\n\nThe Behavioral Rehabilitation center is the only center dedicated for this cause and is located in Madison, New Jersey. The center helps rehabilitate animals that are under socialized or fearful of human interaction, which usually come from cases of hoarding and puppy mills. These animals go through a program which they will graduate from and be up for adoption. Animals that come in from cruelty cases are provided with behavior support from the ACBT. The ACBT also works with providing agencies recommendations on how to rehabilitate the animals through assessments that they have performed.\n\nAnimal welfare is supported through the guiding and initiative of legislative work that is done through the Government Relations department. Through various acts of the department, the legislation of animal protection is monitored across the country, shaping the legislation even further in anti-cruelty initiatives. Lobbyist that are part of the department work by increasing the initiatives that the department works with such as anti-cruelty legislation. Lobbyist increased the anti-cruelty initiative by working in certain regions that are in the states that they manage.\n\nThe department makes prosecution of animal cruelty and animal fighting cases successful by giving legal assistance. The assistance is given to the people who are involved in the cases such as the prosecutors, police and cruelty investigators. Legal documents, resources and proceedings related to animal cruelty cases are given to the prosecutors and legal investigators as a way of providing legal assistance in an animal related criminal case. Cases that could impact many animals or could potentially have an important impact by changing a legislation in the field are identified/found and worked with.\n\nThe department works by setting multi-pronged campaigns, having a main focus on improving the welfare for farm animals and ending puppy mills, therefore doing their goal of reducing animal suffering. They strive for animals to have a more humane life and do so through their holistic and multi-pronged approach. The department has two teams, the farm team and the puppy mill team. The farm team works by increasing the consumer demand, which include advocating for regulations and protective laws and better living conditions for the animals. Through the increase in consumer demand, the team seeks to improve welfare standards and transparency in the agricultural facilities. The puppy mill team do their job by talking to the public and educating them on how bad puppy mills are. The puppy mill team, like the farm team, advocate for laws and legislation that would improve the situation of those animals, such as legislating for the elimination of puppy mills that have substandard breeding operations.\n\nThe COPO department oversees the group as a whole. They ensure the staff is up to date with all the things that the group is doing. The department also makes sure that information is sent out and distributed to all staff. The department is also in charge of the cohesiveness of the programs within the group. They are the ones that coordinate the meetings and provide the data for the meetings, primarily statistical reports.\n\nThe Community Initiatives department has multiple goals that they try to achieve. The goals of the department are “facilitate the ASPCA Partnership, increase the Live Release Rate of cats and dogs in shelters, save animals that are the most at risk by data-programs that engage the community with to reunite lost animals with their families, increase adoptions and spay/neuter and support feral cats.” The staff of the department are also responsible for the program that makes grant for the community and organizations in their region. Some of the programs that the department has includes, improving the shelters, the relocation of animals that are at risk, creating the standards for national disaster readiness and the improvement of professionalism. Through the ASPCA Equine Fund, the department is able to give grants to expand the capabilities of sanctuaries and of equine rescues.\n\nThe Adoption Center has the main goal of “finding good homes for as many dogs and cats possible.” The center helps groups or organizations around them by taking in animals from the public, other shelters and other rescue groups. The center prepares the animals by providing them with mental and physical help with the use of resources such as a veterinary team and a group of behavior experts.\n\nInformation is from \"Heritage of Care: The American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals\".\n\n\n\"Much of the content of this article is based on information from the official ASPCA website\": \n\n"}
{"id": "26400350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26400350", "title": "Art student scam", "text": "Art student scam\n\nThe art student scam is a confidence trick in which cheap, mass-produced paintings or prints are misrepresented as original works of art, often by young people pretending to be art students trying to raise money for art supplies or tuition fees. The sellers mostly represented themselves as French art students, but the scam has recently been copied internationally, with instances of Chinese, Chilean, and other nationalities posing as art students or dealers in Australia, Canada, China, Ireland, New Zealand and the United States since around 2000. The art is often sold in exhibition sites or art galleries. Many scammers operate alongside and at the long-run expense of genuine art students who show their yearly work in festivals during the summer vacation.\n\nMost mass-produced prints and paintings originate in Asia. These are essentially posters, sometimes referred to as \"Hong Kong horrors,\" printed on rough paper, making the absence of brush strokes less apparent. There is a confusion between \"mass-produced paintings\" which are actually prints. These are being sold over the internet described as real oil paintings, taking advantage of the difficulty of spotting the scam behind the screen. Sometimes a few brush strokes are added to the prints to give them a more authentic oil-painting look.\n\nPeople posing as art students were reported in Australia and New Zealand from as early as 2003. The paintings, worth around A$5, were passed off as being worth hundreds of dollars. Three backpackers—an Israeli and two Chileans—were taken to court in Dunedin for the scam in 2003 but were discharged as the judge said that they were \"minnows\" in the organisation. They reportedly made NZ$15,000 in three weeks from the scam. The Consumers' Institute of New Zealand suspected that an Auckland man was the organiser of the operation. A 23-year-old man was arrested in New South Wales, Australia, for operating the scam and 50 oil paintings were found in his car. An adviser for the New Zealand Consumer Affairs Ministry said: \"All around the world, students from various countries are doing this.\" She suggested that the scam's organiser may place advertisements in backpackers’ lodges to recruit students. The scammers have also claimed to be Greek, Argentinian, and French.\n\nIn 2004, a group of Israelis said to have been selling mass-produced paintings as their own work, for hundreds of dollars each, were deported from Canada for working in violation of their visas. The scam recurred in 2009 in Calgary and in Warman, Saskatchewan. Eight people claiming to be students from Israel, Germany, and France were arrested, and 100 paintings were seized by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police and Border Services.\n\nIn China, scammers approach tourists at popular attractions such as the Forbidden City and Tiananmen Square. The scammer speaks English well enough to get into a conversation with the foreigner and then claims to be an art student whose works are on display at a nearby exhibition, which is part of the scam and sells mass-produced art reproductions at exorbitant prices. There are warnings about this scam in tourist guides.\n\nFrom the summer of 2000, news outlets in the Pacific Northwest reported that young people were posing as art students selling mass-produced oil paintings, both copies and originals, for US$780–$2000 each. The so-called art students were said to be selling in exhibitions and galleries, primarily targeting local businesses. They claimed to be studying at art schools in Europe and to be in the United States selling works by talented fellow artists to raise money for art supplies or school fees.\n\nThrough the early 2000s, some 13 separate incidents of \"art student\" encounters were reported across the United States.\n\nIn 2004, the scam surfaced again in Atlanta and Boston, with allegations that the Europeans art students were asking about the new National Security Agency's data center.\n\nIn late September, 2017, the scam appears to be active in the suburbs southeast of Portland, Oregon, perpetrated by a woman going door-to-door claiming to be an Israeli art student. \n"}
{"id": "48929696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48929696", "title": "Asian Journal of Legal Education", "text": "Asian Journal of Legal Education\n\nThe Asian Journal of Legal Education is a blind peer reviewed academic journal. It is a forum for academic research and dialogue about the reform of legal education in the Asian Region.\n\nThe journal is published twice a year by SAGE Publications (New Delhi) in collaboration with the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences.\n\nThis journal is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE).\n\n\"Asian Journal of Legal Education\" is abstracted and indexed in:\n\n"}
{"id": "19101249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19101249", "title": "Australian mining law", "text": "Australian mining law\n\nAustralian mining law governs the exploration and extraction of minerals and petroleum in Australia. It differs substantially from the mining laws of other common law countries, the most important differences arising from the policy decision that the Crown should own all minerals.\n\nThe first Australian mining laws were enacted in 1851. Before that, ownership of minerals and petroleum passed to those who were granted title to land by the colonial governors according to common law concepts, except the right to \"Royal Mines\" (the precious metals of gold and silver) which remained vested in the Crown by virtue of Royal prerogative. From 1855, colonial parliaments legislated for ownership of minerals to be retained by the Crown in future grants of freehold title. Thus, the situation developed where throughout Australia, the crown in right of the State owns nearly all the minerals.\n\nIn relation to minerals situated within state boundaries, first sight, the power to legislate for minerals remains with the states. However, despite the fact that the Constitution of Australia does not list minerals as an area over which the Federal Parliament has jurisdiction, a number of the Commonwealth Parliament's powers encompass matters relevant to mining operations and any legislation of the Commonwealth based upon these powers will override any inconsistent State legislation. As to Commonwealth jurisdiction over the Territories, the constitutional limitations regarding mining operations conducted within the States have no application in the Northern Territory, or other Australian territories.\n\nEach of the States and Territories has its own legislation regulating the exploration for and production of onshore minerals. The Commonwealth has no onshore mining legislation which is applicable in the States or Territories.\n\nAs to offshore minerals, the Commonwealth has sovereignty in respect of the territorial sea, and sovereign rights in respect of both the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone for the purpose of exploitation of their natural resources. Thus, the sovereignty over minerals of the States and the Northern Territory extends only to the low-water mark and it is the Commonwealth which is entitled under international law to exercise sovereignty over minerals under the territorial sea, within the exclusive economic zone and on the continental shelf. However, following an agreement negotiated between the Commonwealth Government and the States in 1979, the Commonwealth conferred power on the States and the Northern Territory to make laws for matters including mining operations in respect of the coastal waters and granted them proprietary rights to the seabed.\n\nIn addition, the Corporations Act 2001 and the Australian Stock Exchange Listing Rules contain special provisions governing the conduct and reporting requirements of mining companies.\n\nAccording to the maxim \"to whomsoever the soil belongs, he owns also to the sky and to the depths\", there is a presumption that a land owner also owns all minerals on or beneath the surface of that land. The presumption is subject to the exception of the Royal metals. As early as the sixteenth century, the common law has held that all gold and silver, whether situated on public or private land, has been owned by the Crown. This Royal prerogative has also been applied in Australia, by both common law and legislation.\n\nHowever, the principle of the owner of land owning the minerals within it has been virtually abolished by statute in Australia . The general rule is that the Crown (in right of the State) owns all minerals. This has been implemented by statute; initially by enacting that all future grants of land must contain a reservation to the Crown of all minerals. Now, all new grants of freehold titles in Australia have provided that all minerals were reserved to the Crown.\n\nIn respect of titles granted prior to the legislation, the owner of the land retained ownership of the minerals (except the Royal metals of gold and silver). That owner may grant a profit à prendre to enter and take minerals.\n\nCrown ownership of minerals has been made universal in Victoria and South Australia by legislative expropriation of all minerals. In Tasmania and New South Wales, this approach of legislative expropriation has been applied on a selective basis (in Tasmania, for gold, silver, oil, hydrogen, helium and atomic substances, and, in New South Wales, for coal). The Crown, pursuant to statute, may grant various leases or licences to enter onto land and take minerals.\n\nState ownership of minerals has had the important result that governments, rather than private landholders, determine the legal regimes governing mineral exploration and production.\n\nLarge mining operations are likely to be regulated by a ratified agreement, sometimes also called a \"state agreement\", an \"agreement act\", a \"franchise agreement\", a \"government agreement\" or a \"special agreement act\". The basis of such an agreement is that the State contracts with the miner in the form of a written agreement which is ratified by a statute of that State or Territory Parliament. This ratification ensures that the provisions of the negotiated agreement have legislative effect and override any inconsistent provisions under the general mining legislation or any other statutes of that State or Territory. Ratified agreements have been used throughout Australia to establish large, export-oriented mining projects since the 1950s. They have been most extensively used in West Australia, where a high proportion of large mining projects continue to operate under such arrangements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26122066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26122066", "title": "Canada's Olympic Broadcast Media Consortium", "text": "Canada's Olympic Broadcast Media Consortium\n\nEstablished in 2007, Canada's Olympic Broadcast Media Consortium (legal name \"7048467 Canada Inc.\", also sometimes referred to informally in branding as CTV Olympics and RDS Olympiques) was a joint venture set up by Canadian media companies Bell Media (formerly CTVglobemedia) and Rogers Media to produce the Canadian broadcasts of the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, and the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, England, as well as the two corresponding Paralympic Games. Bell owned 80% of the joint venture, and Rogers owned 20%.\n\nThe consortium encompassed many of the properties owned by both companies, including Bell Media's CTV Television Network, TSN, RDS and RDS Info, and Rogers Media's Omni Television, Sportsnet, OLN, and the Rogers radio stations group. Several other broadcasters will carried consortium coverage, including V (formerly TQS), and several channels owned by Asian Television Network. Finally, dedicated websites in English and French (\"ctvolympics.ca\" and \"rdsolympiques.ca\") were set up to stream live coverage over the Internet to Canadian viewers. The consortium replaced CBC Sports, which had held the Canadian rights to all Olympics beginning with the 1996 games, although some cable rights had been sub-licensed to TSN / RDS beginning in 1998.\n\nRogers announced in September 2011 that it would withdraw from the consortium following London 2012, and therefore not participate in its bid for rights to the 2014 Winter Olympics and 2016 Summer Olympics. The company cited scheduling conflicts and financial considerations for the decision. Bell Media then announced a new partnership with the CBC to bid for Canadian broadcasting rights of Sochi 2014 and Rio 2016. Broadcast details for the joint bid were never released. The joint Bell/CBC bid was considered the prohibitive favourite to win the rights when the International Olympic Committee accepted bids. However, the Bell/CBC bids were rejected by the IOC.\n\nOn August 1, 2012, CBC Sports announced that it had made a deal to broadcast the 2014 and 2016 Summer and Winter Olympics, replacing the Bell/Rogers group. However, in February 2013, CBC announced that both Sportsnet and TSN would sub-license broadcast rights to the 2014 Winter Olympics.\n\n\n\n\nCTV has previously broadcast the Summer Games in 1976 (along with CBC) and 1992, and the Winter Games in 1964, 1968, 1972, 1976, 1980, 1984, 1988 and 1994.\n\nThe 1980 \"Miracle on Ice\" game was aired live on CTV in Canada, but not ABC in the United States. Thus, American viewers who resided in or near the Canada–US border and received the CTV signal could watch the game live, but the rest of the United States had to wait for a delayed rebroadcast.\n\nIn 1974, Johnny Esaw (who anchored CTV's prime time Olympic coverage from 1964–1980) became vice-president of CTV Sports, a position he would hold until his retirement in 1990. He negotiated the host broadcasting rights to the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta. As the main host broadcaster for the 1988 Winter Olympics, the CTV television network paid $45 million for domestic rights to the 1988 Winter Olympics. Esaw also brought the 1964 Winter Olympics to CTV.\n\nProduction of the broadcasting for the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway, which costs NOK 462 million, was the responsibility of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK), with assistance from CTV and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU). NRK had 1,424 people working at the Olympics, while international broadcasters sent an additional 4,050 accredited broadcasting personnel. The transmission rights for the games were held by EBU in Europe, CBS in the United States, NHK in Japan, CTV in Canada, the Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union, Nine Network in Australia, as well as other broadcasters in other countries. The total transmission rights price was 350 million United States dollars.\n\n\nFor the 2010 Winter Olympics, coverage was as follows:\n\nConsortium coverage originated primarily from the Vancouver Convention Centre (the International Broadcast Centre for the 2010 games) as well as Mountain Square in Whistler.\n\n\n\nThe television broadcast was filmed with 39 new Hitachi SK-HD1000 studio/field cameras from Hitachi Kokusai Electric including on-site technical support. The cameras were also used to broadcast the 2012 Summer Olympics. Following the games, portions of CTV's set were re-purposed by its Vancouver affiliate CIVT for its newscasts.\n\nEnglish-language coverage was provided by the Sportsnet Radio Network, and included coverage of the opening and closing ceremonies, selected hockey games, special editions of \"Prime Time Sports\", and various updates / programs on the games. French-language coverage, which was similar in scope, was carried by Corus Québec.\n\n\nThe consortium also held rights to the 2012 Summer Olympics. Coverage plans for those games were follows (see above).\n\nEnglish broadcasters, as of July 30, 2012\n\nFrench broadcasters, as of July 26, 2011\n\nThe consortium also owned rights to the corresponding Paralympic Games, namely the 2010 Winter Paralympics and the 2012 Summer Paralympics.\n\nCoverage for the 2010 games consisted primarily of coverage of the opening ceremonies (live on CTV British Columbia, and on tape delay on the rest of the CTV network and RIS); daily highlights packages split among CTV, TSN and Sportsnet in English (and RDS / RIS in French); and live coverage of all sledge hockey games featuring the Canadian team. Although not originally scheduled, CTV and RDS later added live coverage of the closing ceremonies.\n\nCoverage for the 2012 games offered no live television coverage and consisted primarily of 10 late night highlight shows carried on TSN2, Sportsnet One, and RDS2, though rebroadcasts of the opening ceremony were carried on both CTV and Rogers-owned broadcast network Citytv.\n\nOriginally, CTV did not plan to air the opening ceremony live. After receiving criticism on the decision, CTV changed its mind and decided to air the ceremony live in Vancouver region. CTV originally continued to stick to its initial plan of not airing the closing ceremony live. This decision led to more complaints and CTV relented by airing the closing ceremony live across Canada.\n\nDespite the 2012 Summer Paralympics being a breakthrough games for international media coverage, giving a significant boost to the overall audience shares of British broadcaster Channel 4 and Australia's ABC, no Paralympics sports events were shown live on television in Canada or the United States. \n\"Based on the level of overall coverage, it's clear that Canadian broadcasters do not deem disability to be important. They are not supporters of inclusion\", SCI BC (BC Paraplegic Association) Executive Director Chris McBride said, contrasting Canada's coverage with Britain's. More than 1,000 people signed a petition calling for Canadian broadcasters to provide full Paralympics coverage at future Games. International Paralympic Committee President Philip Craven criticised North American broadcasters for having fallen behind and said in future the International Paralympic Committee would scrutinize broadcast partners more carefully. \"If the values fit, we've got a chance. If they don't we'll go somewhere else\", he said.\n\nFinally, the consortium owned broadcast rights to the first Youth Olympic Games, the 2010 Summer Youth Olympics in Singapore. Coverage of those games was limited to a one-hour daily highlights package on Sportsnet and TSN2 (rebroadcast several weeks later on TSN).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42299690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42299690", "title": "Center of government", "text": "Center of government\n\nThe center of government (CoG) is the institution or group of institutions that provide direct support to the chief executive (president or prime minister) in leading the management of government. Unlike line ministries and other government agencies, the CoG does not deliver services directly to the citizens, and it does not focus on a specific policy area. On the contrary, the CoG performs cross-government functions. A similar concept is \"Core Executive\".\n\nTwo types of CoG definition exist: by structure or by function.\n\nIn the first type, the defining criterion is the position in the structure of the Executive branch. It only includes institutions and units that directly and exclusively support the head of the government. For example, it refers to Ministries or General-Secretariats of the Presidency, Offices of the President or Prime Minister, and Cabinet Offices.\n\nIn the functional definitions, the defining criterion is that the institution performs whole-of-government functions, especially in terms of planning, coordination, monitoring, political management, and communications. Therefore, in addition to the previously mentioned institutions (such as Ministries of the Presidency), other institutions performing these tasks are also included, even if they are not part of the structure of the Presidency. For example, Ministries or Offices of Planning, , Inter-Ministerial Committees, and even Budget Offices are considered part of the CoG.\n\nA number of authors favor functional definitions, for considering them more applicable to countries with different forms of government and institutional frameworks.\n\nChief Executives (Presidents and Prime Ministers) have had supporting institutions for a long time. In the United Kingdom, the dates to 1916, when the war demanded a stronger central coordination for the government. In the United States, the Executive Office of the President was established in 1939, after the stated that \"the President needs help.\" Offices, Ministries or General Secretariats of the Presidency have also existed in Latin American for several decades now.\n\nHowever, a number of factors lead to a greater importance of the CoG. The following factors have been highlighted: the cross-cutting nature of several current public problems, the need to lead with a unified orientation governments that have decentralized authority to autonomous agencies, and the growing interesting for achieving results for the citizens, beyond a purely fiscal coordination. These factors explain the interest that several governments and international organizations have on the topic, including projects by the Organisation for Cooperation and Economic Development and the Inter-American Development Bank.\n\nMoreover, new institutional developments have generated increased interest in the CoG. The in the United Kingdom was established to ensure that the government's priorities were being implemented, through an intensive monitoring by the CoG. Several countries have replicated this model, including Malaysia and Chile.\nParaguay has established a \"Center of Government\" within the General-Secretariat of the Presidency, in charge of coordinating and monitoring the government action.\n\nIn OECD countries, the CoG institutions lead the functions of coordinating the preparation of Cabinet meetings, coordinating the formulation and implementation of policy, monitoring delivery, strategic planning for the whole-of-government, and communicating the government's messages. Regarding the characteristics of the CoG, there are important variations in terms of organization and staff. For example, in countries like the United Kingdom and Sweden most of the CoG staff belongs to the civil service, while in Canada, Australia and New Zealand political appointees have a larger presence. Important variations have also been identified in Latin America, not only in terms of organization but also in the capacity of CoGs to perform their functions: while some countries have more developed CoGs, others present more serious weaknesses. This heterogeneity across countries has also been detected in the Middle East and North Africa region.\n\n"}
{"id": "48080800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48080800", "title": "Christianity and animal rights", "text": "Christianity and animal rights\n\nThe relationship between Christianity and animal rights has been a complex one that's varied greatly depending on the historical context, with different Christian communities in different nations coming to very different conclusions. The matter is closely related to, but still distinct from and broader than, efforts by Christian vegetarians as well as Christian environmentalists. Majority viewpoints in many nations have held that animals must be treated humanely beyond mere inanimate objects, yet the details of how exactly to do so have remained under dispute.\n\nMany Christian philosophers and socio-political figures have stated that individuals should follow the example of Jesus and treat animals in a way that expresses both compassion as well demonstrates the respectful stewardship of humanity over the environment. William Wilberforce, a co-founder of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, is an example. Large organizations in which a variety of different groups work together, such as the Humane Society of the United States, have undergone religious outreach using such arguments.\n\nAnimal rights activists such as Peter Singer have argued that some Christians in the past and present have been either neglectful or dismissive of the causes for animal rights. Others however, have noted that it would be wrong to see Christianity as an enemy on this since Christian theology, like all other religious traditions, has some unique insights to viewing animal life as having fundamental value. Various church founders have recommended vegetarianism, such as William Cowherd from the Bible Christian Church and Ellen G. White from the Seventh-day Adventists. Willaim Cowherd helped to establish the world's first Vegetarian Society in 1847. Christian denominations like Seventh Day Adventists have central vegetarian doctrines incorporated. John Wesley, the founder of Methodism also recommended vegetarianism and helped establish the American Vegetarian Society in 1850. \n\nThe rise of Christianity put an end to animal sacrificing. And references to peaceful co-existence of creatures such as lambs and wolves in the world to come are found in the Bible. \n\nThe role of animals in the Bible states that any questions of the relationships between animals and people, is a complex one. As remarked by Christian writer Jack Zavada, \"Most interpreters of the Bible assume that man’s likeness to God and animals’ subservience to man implies that animals may have the 'breath of life', \"nephesh chay\" in Hebrew, but not an immortal soul in the same sense as man’s.\"\n\nThe book of Genesis describes humanity as being made in God's image as well as being given general dominion over the other beings of the earth. No mention is made of Adam and Eve consuming animal flesh, nor of them in any way harming animals through ill treatment. The creatures co-exist in a relationship sense rather than an exploitative one.\n\nA variety of passages have been cited in support for caring about animal welfare in the broad sense, an example being how Proverbs 12:10 states that a \"righteous man cares about his animal's health.\"\n\nMore specifically, meat-eating and other forms of using some animals for human benefit receive an explicit approval by God in the aftermath of the events from the expulsion from Eden to the end of the global flood. A Genesis 9:3 (NIV) section states: \"Just as I gave you the green plants, I now give you everything.\"\n\nThe traditional biblical (especially Old Testament) viewpoint among Jews and Christians is that God distinguished man from animals, and gave man control over animals to benefit man, but also that God gave man moral guidelines to prevent cruelty to - or needless suffering by - animals.\n\nIn particular, animal sacrifice plays a major role in many sections of the Bible, reflective of the practice's widespread nature in early Judaism. Specific instances include Leviticus 1:2 (NIV): \"Speak to the Israelites and say to them: 'When any of you brings an offering to the Lord, bring as your offering an animal from either the herd or the flock.'\" A consensus viewpoint doesn't exist as to the exact meaning and reasoning behind said sacrifices, even if they have been interpreted as perhaps symbolizing the returning to God the sense of the 'power over life' in reverential tribute to how God served as the maker of creation to begin with. As remarked by theologian Rev. Dr. Andrew Linzey, \"there’s no one view of animal sacrifices even by those who practiced it.\"\n\nIn terms of the afterlife and the world to come, descriptions of heaven describe an existence without violence and strife either among non-human animals or in their relationship to people. For example, Isaiah 65:25 (NIV) states: \"The wolf and the lamb will feed together, and the lion will eat straw like the ox, but dust will be the serpent’s food. They will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy mountain, says the Lord.\" The depiction of how God's ideal new earth will look like can be interpreted as a signal that human beings should minimize violence as much as possible in terms of all animals.\n\nJesus Christ in the New Testament exists not just as the core theological figure in Christian thought but also as a moral icon to look to as an inspiration in terms of Christian ethics. Looking at the canonical gospels, Jesus did not directly identify being a vegetarian and did not act like one. Biblical passages associate Jesus and his followers with fishing, which could be an implied support for meat-eating (at least of that type) specifically. In the larger context of animal rights, though, the association of Jesus as a 'good shepherd' character, one taking things so far that \"the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep\", establishes a moral theme of those that are stronger and more powerful being willing to sacrifice for the weaker and less powerful, all out of love. This can be taken as inspiration for animal welfare advocacy by modern Christians.\n\nThe rise of Christianity ended animal sacrifice, as Christians believe Jesus died for all the sins of humanity and is often portrayed as the last sacrificial lamb in the New Testament.\n\nVarious church founders have recommended vegetarianism, such as William Cowherd from the Bible Christian Church and Ellen G. White from the Seventh-day Adventists. Cowherd, who founded the Bible Christian Church in 1809, helped to establish the world's first Vegetarian Society in 1847. John Wesley, the founder of Methodism, promoted vegetarianism which helped establish the American Vegetarian Society in 1850. \n\nSome Christians denominations such as the Seventh Day Adventists have central vegetarian doctrines that play a role in adherents. \n\nThe tradition of Christian vegetarianism has long been a minority viewpoint among Christian communities, though its history has gone back many decades in religious thought. Leo Tolstoy’s views, as expressed in things such as his famous 1909 essay about a slaughterhouse, have remained influential for years. Later writers that cite his comments on animal rights include Catholic columnist Mary Eberstadt.\n\nThe Catechism of the Catholic Church takes the position that Christians are called to express kindness to the world's creatures in general, and people possess a moral obligation to avoid causing unnecessary suffering to animals. Meat-eating in the context of nourishment is permitted. Examples of Roman Catholic figures that have written in favor of animal rights and against factory farming, though not strictly being vegetarians themselves, include Fordham University professor Charles Camosy and the aforementioned columnist Mary Eberstadt. The former wrote the work \"For Love of Animals: Christian Ethics, Consistent Action\" on the subject, which the latter praised while writing for \"National Review\".\n\nOpinions within the Church of England have drawn influence from the work of seminal Anglican theologian Andrew Linzey, who published \"Animal Rights: A Christian Assessment\" in 1976 while still a student. Labeled by \"The New York Times\" as having \"caused a sensation in Christian circles\" from his first book on, he's a member of the faculty at the University of Oxford as well as the founder and director of the Oxford Centre for Animal Ethics, an independent academic organization.\n\nIn 1992, Anglican figures arguing in support of taking a stance against animal cruelty succeeded in having forty-one bishops signing a pledge not to wear fur because of the suffering inflicted, with the pledge getting some attention. However, the debate undertaken by the General Synod in 1990 about both hunting and factory farming practices done on Church-owned land ended with said practices being allowed to go on.\n\nIn terms of the Methodist tradition, figures such as University of Chester professor and author David Clough have held a respect for the rights of animals should exist given that, in Christian terms, God deliberately created the creatures of the world and proclaimed them all as good. He's written that how non-humans are \"reconciled to God in Jesus Christ and will be redeemed by God in the new creation\" accordingly creates duties for mankind. Besides serving as a Methodist pastor, he's President of the Society for the Study of Christian Ethics.\n\nBands often labeled as being Christian metal or influenced by Christian music such as Blessthefall, MyChildren MyBride, Gwen Stacy, and Sleeping Giant have had members speak out in favor of animal rights, with those statements garnering attention from secular music-related publications.\n\nPhilosopher Peter Singer has argued in publications such as his seminal book \"Animal Liberation\", first published in 1975, that Christian thought has contributed to animal cruelty and suffering. He's cited commentary from figures such as Aquinas about humanity's innate right to control the natural world as holding back progress in animal rights. However, Singer later stated that he had changed his views in part given the complexity of different views towards animals among different Christians.\n\nThe aforementioned Rev. Dr. Andrew Linzey commented in 1996 that:\nContemporary philosopher Bernard Rollin writes that \"\"dominion\" does not entail or allow abuse any more than does dominion a parent enjoys over a child.\" Rollin further states that the Biblical Sabbath requirement promulgated in the Ten Commandments \"required that animals be granted a day of rest along with humans. Correlatively, the Bible forbids 'plowing with an ox and an ass together' (Deut. 22:10–11). According to the rabbinical tradition, this prohibition stems from the hardship that an ass would suffer by being compelled to keep up with an ox, which is, of course, far more powerful. Similarly, one finds the prohibition against 'muzzling an ox when it treads out the grain' (Deut. 25:4–5), and even an environmental prohibition against destroying trees when besieging a city (Deut. 20:19–20). These ancient regulations, \"bespeak of an eloquent awareness of the status of animals as ends in themselves\", a point also corroborated by Norm Phelps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9960436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9960436", "title": "Consultant Plus", "text": "Consultant Plus\n\nConsultant Plus () is an assistance system to work with the legislation of Russia. Consultant's centralized database is updated daily. It is distributed via a network of partners.\n\nIts major competitors are \"Garant\" and Codex and Techexpert, both proprietary.\n\nThe full federal law database includes over 3 million documents; regional acts are distributed in a separate database with over 4 million documents.\n\nThe information contained in the system is structured into several notions, including:\n\nEvery class mentioned above consists of several information banks to simplify the search throughout the database by manually excluding the classes and banks inappropriate for each current search.\n\nThe database includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "15887967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15887967", "title": "Cooper v. Oklahoma", "text": "Cooper v. Oklahoma\n\nCooper v. Oklahoma, 517 U.S. 348 (1996), was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court reversed an Oklahoma court decision holding that a defendant is presumed to be competent to stand trial unless he proves otherwise by the second highest legal standard of proof, that of clear and convincing evidence, ruling that to be unconstitutional. The court said the defendant's Fourteenth Amendment rights to due process were violated.\n\nIn this case, the defendant's ability to understand the charges against him and his ability to assist in his own defense was challenged on five separate occasions before and during his trial and sentencing for capital murder, but the trial judge ruled he was competent to stand trial because he did not meet Oklahoma's high standard of proof.\n\nByron Keith Cooper was charged in 1989 with the murder of an 86-year-old man while in the course of committing burglary. Both before and during his trial, the question of his competency to stand trial was raised five times. The first time the question arose, the trial judge relied on the opinion of a state psychologist in determining to commit the defendant to a state psychiatric hospital for three months of treatment. Upon Cooper's return, the trial judge heard testimony from two state psychologists regarding Cooper's competence, but as these experts disagreed over whether Cooper was competent to stand trial, the judge decided to rule against Cooper and ordered the trial to proceed. After the pretrial hearing was completed, the defense attorney raised the issue of Cooper's competence a third time, telling the court that Cooper's behavior was \"odd\" and that he refused to communicate with his attorney. The attorney said that it could be a serious matter \"if he's not faking\". However, the judge declined to review his earlier decision that Cooper was competent to proceed.\n\nOn the first day of trial, Cooper's bizarre behavior (such as fleeing from his defense attorney, refusing to change his prison clothes because regular clothes \"burned\" him, and talking to himself while in the fetal position) induced the court to conduct a further competency hearing. This time the trial judge observed Cooper and heard testimony from people including lay witnesses, defendant Cooper, and a third psychologist who concluded that Cooper was incompetent. While expressing his uncertainty and not disagreeing with the psychologist, the judge ruled against Cooper and ordered the trial to proceed, finally opining:\nThe trial proceeded with Cooper continuing to act in a bizarre manner and refusing to be near his attorney. Cooper was convicted of first degree murder, and during the sentencing phase of the trial the history of Cooper's childhood abuse was recounted. Finally the defense attorney pleaded for either a mistrial or further evaluation into Cooper's competence, describing Cooper's courtroom behavior:\nThe court summarily denied the motion. Cooper received the death penalty after the jury recommended death.\n\nCooper appealed, and the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed both the conviction and the sentence. Cooper appealed to the Supreme Court on a writ of certiorari.\n\nIn a unanimous verdict, the Supreme Court reversed the judgment and remanded the case back to the Oklahoma Court of Criminal Appeals for further consideration in light of their opinion. The Court held that the State may not proceed with a criminal trial when the defendant has demonstrated that he is more likely than not to be incompetent. Requiring a higher standard of proof, that of \"clear and convincing evidence\", was too high a standard of proof for a defendant to demonstrate a need for a competency evaluation, increasing the possibility of error to a level \"incompatible with the dictates of due process\". Criminal defendants must be allowed to avoid trial if they prove incompetence by a \"preponderance of the evidence.\"\n\nThe court used the relevant history of common law regarding competency and the treatment of the insane and also compared Oklahoma's standards with the contemporary practices of other states, finding that only 4 of the 50 states used Oklahoma's heightened standard of proof. They concluded that this \"demonstrates that the vast majority of jurisdictions remain persuaded that the heightened standard of proof imposed on the accused in Oklahoma is not necessary to vindicate the State's interest in prompt and orderly disposition of criminal cases.\" The court found most states uses a burden of proof far lower, or imposed no burden of proof at all, once the competency question is raised.\n\nThe American Academy for Psychiatry and the Law unofficially considers this decision a landmark case in competency to stand trial case law. The court stated that no one questions the fundamental right of competency to stand trial. As established in \"Dusky v. United States\", a defendant has a fundamental right not to be put to trial unless he has \"sufficient present ability to consult with his lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understanding . . . [and] a rational as well as factual understanding of the proceedings against him.\" A State may not proceed with a criminal trial after the defendant has demonstrated that he is more likely than not to be incompetent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1917953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1917953", "title": "Corporation tax in the Republic of Ireland", "text": "Corporation tax in the Republic of Ireland\n\nIreland's Corporate Tax System is a central component of Ireland's economy. In 2016–17, foreign firms paid 80% of Irish corporate tax, employed 25% of the Irish labour force (paid 50% of Irish salary tax), and created 57% of Irish OECD non-farm value-add. U.S.–controlled firms represent almost all foreign firms in Ireland and in 2017 were 25 of the top 50 Irish firms, and 70% of the revenue of the top 50 Irish firms (). By 2018, Ireland had received the most U.S. in history, and Apple was over one–fifth of Irish GDP. Academics rank Ireland as the largest tax haven; larger than the Caribbean tax haven system.\n\nIreland's \"headline\" corporation tax rate is 12.5%, however, foreign multinationals pay an of under 4% on global profits \"shifted\" to Ireland, via Ireland's global network of bilateral tax treaties. These lower effective tax rates are achieved by a complex set of Irish base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") tools which handle the largest BEPS flows in the world (e.g. the Double Irish as used by Google and Facebook, the Single Malt as used by Microsoft and Allergan, and Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets as used by Accenture, and by Apple post Q1 2015).\n\nIreland's main use \"intellectual property\" (\"IP\") accounting to affect the BEPS movement, which is why almost all foreign multinationals in Ireland are from the industries with substantial IP, namely technology and life sciences. Multinationals from jurisdictions with \"territorial tax\" systems (i.e. almost all OECD countries), make little use of tax havens, thus, almost most foreign multinationals in Ireland date from periods when their home tax system was a \"worldwide tax\" system (e.g. UK pre–2009, and U.S. pre–2018); and is why there are no non–U.S./non–UK multinationals in Ireland's top 50 firms.\n\nAs with all tax havens, Ireland's GDP is artificially inflated by BEPS accounting flows. This distortion escalated in Q1 2015 when Apple executed the largest BEPS transaction in history, on-shoring $300 billion of non–U.S. IP to Ireland (called \"leprechaun economics\"). It forced the Central Bank of Ireland to abandon GDP in 2017, and replace with modified gross national income (GNI*), which removes part, but not all, of the distortions by BEPS tools. Irish GDP was 162% of Irish GNI* in 2017. \n\nIreland's corporation tax regime is integrated with Ireland's IFSC tax schemes (e.g. Section 110 SPVs and QIAIFs), which offer traditional tax haven-type tools to give confidential routes out of the Irish corporate tax system to Ireland's favoured Sink OFC, Luxembourg, which is 50% of all outbound Irish FDI. This functionality has made Ireland one of the largest global Conduit OFCs, and the third largest global Shadow Banking OFC. Irish privacy and data protection laws hide Irish tax tools from public scrutiny. There is evidence Ireland behaves like a \"captured state\", fostering tax avoidance schemes. Ireland is labelled a .\n\nAs , the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA) moves the U.S to a \"territorial tax\" system. The TJCA's GILTI–FDII–BEAT tax regime has seen U.S. IP–heavy multinationals (e.g. Pfizer), forecast 2019 effective tax rates that are similar to those of prior U.S. tax inversions to Ireland (e.g. Medtronic). Ireland's corporate tax regime is also threatened by the EU's desire to introduce EU–wide anti-BEPS tool regimes (e.g. the 2020 Digital Services Tax, and the CCCTB).\n\n, there are two rates of corporation tax (\"CT\") in the Republic of Ireland:\n\n\n, the key attributes that tax experts note regarding the Irish corporate tax system are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe trends in Irish corporation tax (\"CT\") receipts to the Irish Exchequer were:\n\n\nEach year, the Department of Finance is required to produce a report on \"Estimates for Receipts and Expenditure\" for the coming year. The table below, is extracted from the \"Tax Revenues\" section of the report for the prior-year (e.g. the 2017 column is from the 2018 report), by which time the \"Tax Revenues\" for that year are largely known (although still subject to further revision in later years). \n\nThe \"Tax Revenues\" quoted are \"Exchequer Tax Revenues\", and do not include \"Appropriations-in-Aid\" (\"A–in–A\") items, the largest being Social Security (or PRSI) which for 2015 was €10.2 billion, and other smaller items. Irish Personal Income tax, and the two main Irish consumption taxes of VAT and Excise, have consistently been circa 80% of the total Irish Exchequer Tax Revenue, with the balance being Corporate tax.\n\nIreland's economic model was transformed from a predominantly agricultural-based economy to a knowledge-based economy, when the EU agreed to waive EU State-aid rules to allow Ireland's special rate of 10% for manufacturing (created in 1980–81 with the EU's agreement), to be extended to the special economic zone called the International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") in Dublin city centre in 1987. The transformation was accelerated when Ireland's standard corporate tax rate was reduced from 40% to 12.5% (phased in from 1996–2003), in response to the EU's 1996–1998 decision to withdraw the State-aid waiver. The passing of the \"1997 Taxes and Consolidated Acts\" laid the legal foundations for the base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools used by U.S. multinationals in Ireland (e.g. the Double Irish, the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets and the Section 110 SPV), to achieve an effective Irish CT rate, or \"ETR\", of 0–3%.\n\nWhile low CT rates (and evern lower effective tax rates), are a central part of Irish tax policy, non–CT \"Taxation in the Republic of Ireland\" is closer to EU–28 and OECD averages. Ireland's policy is summarised by the OECD's \"Hierarchy of Taxes\" pyramid (reproduced in the Department of Finance Tax Strategy Group's 2011 corporate tax policy document). As shown in , annual Irish CT has been between 10 and 16 percent of annual Total Irish Tax from circa 1994 to 2018. From 2000–2014, Ireland's Total Tax-to-GDP ratio was circa 27–30%, versus the OECD average of 33%. However, since Apple's leprechaun economics Irish restructuring artificially inflated Ireland's GDP by 34.3% in 2015, Ireland's Tax-to-GDP ratio had fallen to the bottom of the OECD range at under 23%.\n\nIn June 2018, international tax academics confirmed that Ireland was the largest global tax haven, exceeding the combined flows of the entire Caribbean tax haven system. As international tax academics have shown, being a leading corporate tax haven has been a prosperous economy strategy for Ireland. However, as the tax academics also predicted, the artificial distortion of Ireland's economic data, and GDP in particular, by BEPS flows, led to a large credit bubble during 2003–2007 (due to the mispricing of Ireland's credit), and an eventual credit–property–banking crisis in 2008–2013.\n\nIreland's main foreign multinationals are from periods when their home jurisdiction had a \"worldwide tax\" system (see \"Table 1\"), and since the UK switched to a \"territorial tax\" system in 2009–12, Ireland has been almost exclusively a U.S. corporate–tax haven (see \"Table 1\"). In October 2014, the \"The Guardian\" quoted the Irish lead singer of \"U2\", \"Bono\" as saying that \"his country’s tax policies have \"brought our country the only prosperity we’ve known\"\". In April 2016, award-winning Irish writer, Fintan O'Toole labeled Ireland's focus on being a U.S. corporate tax haven as the core economic model, as Ireland's OBI, (or \"One Big Idea\").\n\nU.S.–controlled multinationals, either legally based in the U.S. or legally based in Ireland (e.g. tax inversions), dominate Ireland's economy. In June 2018, the \"American Chamber of Commerce (Ireland)\" estimated the value of U.S. investment in Ireland was €334 billion, which compared to 2017 Irish GNI* of €181.2 billion. In January 2018, Eurostat used 2015 data to show the \"gross operating surplus\" of foreign companies in Ireland was almost exclusively from U.S. companies, with the UK was a distant second, and little other foreign firm activity (see graphic). Not only did U.S. companies rank ahead of Irish companies, but a material quantum of the \"gross operating surplus\" attributed to Irish companies, is from U.S. tax inversion such as Medtronic, Eaton and Allergan, who are in effect, U.S.–controlled multinationals, and have little attachment to Ireland.\n\nIn 2016–2017, foreign multinationals, being entirely U.S.–controlled:\n\n\nThe main features regarding foreign multinationals in Ireland are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIreland's corporate BEPS tools emphasise job creation (either of Irish employees or of foreign employees to Ireland). To use Irish BEPS tools, and their ETRs of 0–3%, the multinational must meet conditions on the intellectual property (\"IP\") they will be using as part of their Irish BEPS tool. This is outlined in the Irish Finance Acts particular to each scheme, but in summary, the multinational must:\n\n\nThe percentage of Irish wage-to-profits has never been disclosed, however, commentators imply the Irish wage-roll needs to be circa 2–3% of gross Irish profits:\n\n\nTo the extent that the Irish jobs are performing real functions (e.g. the function is not replicated elsewhere in the Group), the cost is not a \"employment tax\", however, at worst case, the U.S. multinational should incur an aggregate effective Irish corporation tax of 2–6% (actual Irish BEPS tool tax of 0–3%, plus Irish employment costs of 2–3%). Therefore, as shown in , while Irish CT has consistently been between 10 and 15% of Total Irish Tax, the additional employment contribution made by U.S. multinationals in Ireland, has led to strong growth in overall Irish Total Taxes.\n\nThe top 50 Irish companies, ranked by 2017 Irish registered revenues, are as follows:\n\nFrom the above table:\n\nThe tax schemes used by U.S. multinationals in Ireland are called base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) tools by tax academics. Whereas Ireland's \"headline\" corporation tax rate is 12.5%, Ireland's BEPS tools enable an effective tax rate of 0% to 3% to be achieved, depending on which BEPS tool is used.\n\nIreland has been associated with U.S. multinational \"profit shifting\" to avoid taxes since the U.S. IRS produced a list on the 12 January 1981. In February 1994, the U.S. tax academic, James R. Hines Jr. identified Ireland as one of seven \"major\" tax havens for U.S. multinational \"profit shifting\". During the 2014–2016 EU investigation into Apple's Irish BEPS tools, it was revealed that the Irish Revenue Commissioners had been issuing private rulings on Apple's Double Irish BEPS tools as far back as 1991; and that Apple, Ireland's largest company, had an ETR of less than 1%. In 2014, the EU Commission forced Ireland to close its Double Irish BEPS tool, however, Ireland had replacements in place: the \"Single Malt\" (2014), and the \"Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets\" (CAIA) (2009).\n\nWhen Apple closed its hybrid–Double Irish BEPS tool in Q1 2015 and restructured into the CAIA BEPS tool, the Irish Central Statistics Office (\"CSO\") had to re-state Irish 2015 GDP as Apple's CAIA tool had artificially inflated Irish GDP by 34.4%; an event Paul Krugman christened in July 2016 as Leprechaun economics. Because the Irish CSO delayed the re-statement and redacted normal economic data to protect Apple's identity, it was not until January 2018, that economists could confirm Apple as the source of \"leprechaun economics\", and that at $300 billion, was the largest BEPS action in history. By February 2017, the distortion of Irish economic data by Irish BEPS tools had grown so large, that the Central Bank of Ireland replaced GDP with Modified GNI; 2017 Irish GNI* is 40% below Irish GDP (see \"Table 2\"}. \n\nIn November 2016, Ireland signed the OECD BEPS Multilateral Instrument (\"MLI\") to curb global BEPS tools but opted out of Article 12 to protect the Single Malt and CAIA BEPS tools. In March 2018, the Financial Stability Forum showed Ireland's Debt–based BEPS tools made it the 3rd–largest Shadow Banking OFC in the world. In June 2018, tax academics showed Irish IP–based BEPS tools were artificially distorting \"aggregate\" EU GDP data, and had artificially inflated the EU–U.S. trade-deficit. In June 2018, tax academics confirmed IP–based BEPS tools had made Ireland the world's largest tax haven, and that the $106 billion of annual corporate profits shielded by Irish BEPS tools, exceeded the BEPS flows of the entire Caribbean tax haven system.\n\nIreland's main BEPS tools use intellectual property (IP) to effect the \"profit shift\" from the higher-tax locations to Ireland, via royalty payment schemes. To avoid incurring Irish corporation tax on these \"shifted profits\", the BEPS tools either send-on the profits to traditional tax havens (with explicit 0% CT rates) via royalty payment schemes (e.g. the Double Irish and Single Malt BEPS tools), or use intangible capital allowances schemes to write-off the profits against Irish tax (e.g. the CAIA BEPS tool). This is the reason why most U.S. multinationals in Ireland are from the two largest IP–industries, namely technology companies and life sciences; or, are specific companies with valuable industrial patents such as Ingersoll-Rand and Eaton Corporation. \n\nIreland describes its IP–based BEPS tools as being part of its \"knowledge economy\"; however, U.S. tax academics describe IP as \"the leading tax-avoidance vehicle in the world\". Despite its small size, Ireland ranks 6th in the 2018 U.S. Global Intellectual Property Center (GIPC) league table of the top 50 global centres for IP–leglislation, and 4th in the important \"Patents\" sub-category (see graphic opposite).\n\nWhile Ireland's most important BEPS tools are all IP–based, Ireland has other BEPS tools including Transfer Pricing–based BEPS tools (e.g. contract manufacturing), and Debt–based BEPS tools (e.g. the Irish Section 110 SPV, and the Irish L-QIAIF).\n\nIreland's IP–based BEPS tools have only attracted material operations from multinationals whose home jurisdiction had a \"worldwide tax\" system; namely, the U.K pre–2009, and the U.S. pre–2018 (see \"Table 1\"). Ireland has not attracted material technology or life sciences multinationals (outside of a specific plant, under its TP–based \"Contract Manufacturing\" BEPS tool), whose home jurisdiction operates a \"territorial tax\" system. , there are only 6 remaining jurisdictions in the world who operate a \"worldwide tax\" system, of which Ireland is one (e.g. Chile, Greece, Ireland, Israel, South Korea, Mexico).\n\nIn 2016, U.S. tax academic, James R. Hines Jr. showed firms from \"territorial tax\" systems make little use of corporate–tax havens, as their tax code applied lower rates to foreign-sourced profits. Hines, with German tax academics, showed the German tax code charged a CT rate of 5% to the foreign profits of German multinationals. Hines was one of the most-cited sources when the U.S. Council of Economic Advisors advocated switching the U.S. tax code to a \"territorial system\" in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.\n\nIn 2014, the U.S Tax Foundation, reported on how the UK had effectively stopped UK corporates inverting to Ireland, by switching the UK corporate tax-code to a \"territorial system\" over 2009-2012. By 2014, the UK \"HMRC\" reported that most of the UK multinationals that had inverted to Ireland had either returned to the UK (e.g., WPP plc, United Busines Media plc, Henderson Group plc), or were about to be acquired by U.S. multinationals as part of a U.S. corporate tax inversion to Ireland (e.g. Shire plc).\n\nAn \"artificially inflated GDP-per-capita statistic\", is a known feature of tax havens, due to the BEPS flows. In February 2017, Ireland's national accounts became so distorted by BEPS flows that the Central Bank of Ireland replaced Irish GDP with a new economic measure, Irish Modified GNI*. However, in December 2017, Eurostat reported that Modified GNI* did not remove all of the distortions from Irish economic data. \n\nBy September 2018, the Irish Central Statistics Office (\"CSO\") reported that Irish GDP was 162% of Irish GNI* (e.g. BEPS tools had artificially inflated Ireland's economic statistics by 62%). Irish public indebtedness changes dramatically depending on whether Debt-to-GDP, Debt-to-GNI* or Debt-per-Capita is used; the Debt-per-Capita metric removes all distortion from Irish BEPS tools and implies a level of Irish public-sector indebtedness that is only surpassed by Japan.\n\n(†) The Central Statistics Office (Ireland) revised 2015 GDP higher in 2017, increasing Ireland's \"leprechaun economics\" 2015 GDP growth rate from 26.3% to 34.4%.<br>\n(‡) Eurostat show that GNI* is also still distorted by certain BEPS tools, and specifically contract manufacturing, which is a significant activity in Ireland.\n\nThe earliest recorded versions of the \"Double Irish\" BEPS tool are by Apple in the late 1980s; and the EU discovered Irish Revenue rulings on the Double Irish for Apple in 1991. Almost every major U.S. technology and life sciences firm has been associated with the Double Irish. Feargal O'Rourke, PwC tax partner in the IFSC (and son of Minister Mary O'Rourke, cousin of the 2008–2011 Irish Finance Minister Brian Lenihan Jnr) is regarded as its \"grand architect\". In 2018, tax academics showed the Double Irish shielded $106 billion of mainly U.S. annual corporate profits from both Irish and U.S. taxation in 2015. As the BEPS tool with which U.S. multinationals built up untaxed offshore reserves of circa US$1 trillion from 2004 to 2017, the Double Irish is the largest tax avoidance tool in history. In 2016, when the EU levied a €13 billion fine on Apple, the largest tax fine in history, it covered the period 2004–14, during which Apple paid an Irish ETR of <1% on €110.8 billion in Irish profits. Despite the loss of taxes to the U.S. exchequer, it was the EU Commission that forced Ireland to close the Double Irish from January 2015; with closure to existing users by 2020.\n\nIn an October 2013 interview, PwC tax partner Feargal O'Rourke (\"architect\" of the Double Irish, see above), said that: \"the days of the Double Irish tax scheme are numbered\". In October 2014, as the EU forced the Irish State to close the Double Irish BEPS tool, the influential U.S. National Tax Journal published an article by Jeffrey L Rubinger and Summer Lepree, showing that Irish based subsidiaries of U.S. corporations could replace the Double Irish arrangement with a new structure (now known as \"Single Malt\"). The Irish media picked up the article, but when an Irish MEP notified the then Finance Minister, Michael Noonan, he was told to \"Put on the green jersey\". A November 2017 report by Christian Aid, titled \"Impossible Structures\", showed how quickly the Single Malt BEPS tool was replacing the Double Irish. The report detailed Microsoft's and Allergen's schemes and extracts from advisers to their clients. In September 2018, the \"Irish Times\" revealed that U.S. medical device manufacturer Teleflex, had created a Single Malt scheme in July 2018, and reduced their corporate tax rate to circa 3%; and that the Irish State were keeping the matter, \"under consideration\".\n\nIn November 2018, the Irish Government amended the Ireland–Malta tax treaty to prevent the Single Malt BEPS tool being used between Ireland and Malta (it can still be used with the UAE for example). On the same day the closure was announced, LinkedIn in Ireland, identified as a user of the Single Malt tool in 2017, announced in filings that it had sold a major IP asset to its parent, Microsoft (Ireland). In July 2018, it was disclosed in the Irish financial media that Microsoft (Ireland) were preparing a restructure of their Irish BEPS tools into a CAIA (or Green Jersey) Irish tax structure.\n\nIn June 2009, the Irish State established the \"Commission on Taxation\", to review Ireland's tax regime, and included Feargal O'Rourke (\"architect\" of the Double Irish, see above). In September 2009, the Commission recommended that the Irish State provide capital allowances for the acquisition of intangible assets, creating the \"Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets\" (CAIA) BEPS tool. Whereas the Double Irish and Single Malt BEPS tools enable Ireland to act as a \"confidential\" \"Conduit OFC\" for rerouting untaxed profits to places like Bermuda (e.g. it must be \"confidential\" as higher-tax locations would not sign full tax treaties with locations like Bermuda), the CAIA BEPS tool, enables Ireland to act as the \"Sink OFC\" (e.g. the terminus for untaxed profits, like Bermuda).\n\nCAIA uses the accepted tax concept of providing capital allowances for the purchase of physical assets. However, Ireland turns it into a BEPS tool by providing the allowances for the purchase of \"intangible assets\", and particularly \"intellectual property\" assets; and critically, where the owner of the intangible assets is a \"connected party\" (e.g. a Group subsidiary, often located in a tax haven); and has valued the assets for the inter-Group transaction using an Irish IFSC accounting firm. \n\nCAIA \"capitalises\" the tax shield of the Double Irish, and thus materially increases the distortion of the Irish national accounts. This was shown in July 2016 when the Irish CEO had to restate Irish 2015 GDP by 34.4% due to Apple's Q1 2015 \"leprechaun economics\" restructure into a CAIA BEPS tool. A June 2018 report by the EU Parliament's GUE–NGL body showed that Apple doubled the Irish corporate tax shield of its CAIA BEPS tool by financing the acquisition of the IP via Jersey (the report called the CAIA BEPS tool, the \"Green Jersey\"). Whereas the Double Irish and Single Malt have an ETR of less than 1%, the ETR of the CAIA BEPS tool ranges from 0% to 3% depending on the date on which the CAIA tool was started (see effective tax rates).\n\nIreland created the first OECD–compliant Knowledge Development Box (\"KDB\"), in the 2015 \"Finance Act\", to further support it's intellectual property BEPS toolkit.\n\nThe KDB behaves like a CAIA BEPS scheme with a cap of 50% (i.e. similar to getting 50%–relief against capitalised IP, for a net effective Irish tax rate of 6.25%). As with the CAIA BEPS scheme, the KDB is limited to specific \"qualifying assets\", however, unlike CAIA tool, these are quite narrowly defined by the 2015 \"Finance Act\". \n\nThe Irish KDB was created with tight conditions to ensure OECD compliance and thus meets the OECD's \"modified Nexus standard\" for IP. This has drawn criticism from Irish tax advisory firms who feel that its use is limited to pharmaceutical (who have the most \"Nexus\" compliant patents/processes), and some niche sectors.\n\nIt is expected these conditions will be relaxed over time through refinements of the 2015 \"Finance Act\"; a route taken by other Irish IP–based BEPS tools:\n\n\nIrish tax-law firms expect the Irish KDB terms will be brought into alignment with the CAIA BEPS tool terms in the future.\n\nA Section 110 Special Purpose Vehicle (\"SPV\") is an Irish tax resident company, which qualifies under Section 110 of the 1997 \"Irish Taxes Consolidation Act\" (“TCA”), by virtue of restricting itself to only holding \"qualifying assets\", for a special tax regime that enables the SPV to attain full tax neutrality (i.e. the SPV pays no Irish corporate taxes). It is a major Irish Debt–based BEPS tool. \n\nSection 110 was created to help International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") legal and accounting firms compete for the administration of global securitisation deals. While they pay no Irish taxes, they contribute circa €100 million annually to the Irish economy from fees paid to the IFSC legal and accounting firms. IFSC firms lobbied the Irish State for successive amendments to the Section 110 legislation, so that by 2011, Section 110 had become an Irish Debt–based BEPS tool, for avoiding tax on Irish and international assets.\n\nIn 2016, it was discovered that U.S. distressed debt funds used Section 110 SPVs, structured by IFSC professional service firms, to avoid material Irish taxes on domestic Irish activities, while State-backed mezzanine funds were using Section 110 SPVs to lower their clients Irish corporate tax liability. Academic studies in 2017 note that Irish Section 110 SPVs operate in a brass plate fashion with little regulatory oversight from the Irish Revenue or Central Bank of Ireland, and have been attracting funds from undesirable activities (e.g. sanctioned Russian banks).\n\nThese abuses were discovered because Section 110 SPVs must file public accounts with the Irish CRO. In 2018 Central Bank of Ireland overhauled the little-used L–QIAIF vehicle, so that is now offers the same tax benefits on Irish assets held via debt as the Section 110 SPV, but without having to file Irish public accounts.\n\nThe Irish QIAIF regime is exempt from all Irish taxes and duties (including VAT and withholding tax), and apart from the VCC wrapper, do not have to file public accounts with the Irish CRO. This has made QIAIF an important \"backdoor\" out of the Irish corporate tax system. The most favoured destination is to Sink OFC Luxembourg, which receives 50% of all outbound Irish foreign direct investment (\"FDI). QIAIFs, with Section 110 SPVs, have made Ireland the 3rd largest Shadow Banking OFC.\n\nWhen the Section 110 SPV Irish domestic tax avoidance scandals surfaced in late 2016, it was due to Irish financial journalists and Dail Eireann representatives scrutinising the Irish CRO public accounts of U.S. distressed firms. In November 2016 the Central Bank began to overhaul the L-QIAIF regime. In early 2018, the Central Bank upgraded the L-QIAIF regime so that it could replicate the Section 110 SPV (e.g. closed end debt structures), but without needing to file public CRO accounts. In June 2018, the Central Bank announced that €55 billion of U.S. distressed debt assets had transferred out of Section 110 SPVs.\n\nIt is expected that the Irish L–QIAIF will replace the Irish Section 110 SPV as Ireland's main Debt–based BEPS tool for U.S. multinationals in Ireland.\n\nThe ability of foreign institutions to use QIAIFs (and particularly the ICAV wrapper) to avoid all Irish taxes on Irish assets has been blamed for the bubble in Dublin commercial property (and, by implication, the Dublin housing crisis). This risk was highlighted in 2014 when Central Bank of Ireland consulted the European Systemic Risk Board (\"ESRB\") after lobbying to expand the L-QIAIF regime.\n\nIreland's transfer pricing (\"TP\") based BEPS tools are mostly related to contract manufacturing. By refusing to implement the 2013 EU Accounting Directive (and invoking exemptions on reporting holding company structures until 2022), Ireland enables their TP and IP–based BEPS tools to structure as \"unlimited liability companies\" (ULCs) which do not have to file public accounts with the Irish CRO. In spite of this, many Irish IP–based BEPS tools are so large that tax academics have been able to separate out their scale from filed group accounts (e.g. work of Gabriel Zucman). However, Irish TP–based BEPS tools are smaller, and therefore harder to pick out from a listed multinational's group accounts. In addition, the Irish State, to help obfuscate the activities of the larger and more important IP–based BEPS tools, sometimes present their data as \"manufacturing\" data, and blended in with TP–based BEPS data; the example of how the Irish State obfuscated Apple's Q1 2015 CAIA BEPS tool, by crediting the 2015 leprechaun economics GDP growth rate to contract manufacturing and aircraft leasing activities is a notable case. It is generally regarded that Ireland's main TP–based BEPS tool users are the life sciences manufacturers.\n\nThe \"headline\" tax rate is the rate of taxation that is applied to the profits that a tax-code deems to be taxable after deductions. The \"effective\" tax rate is the rate of taxation implied by the actual quantum of tax paid versus profits before all deductions are applied. The gap between the Irish corporate \"headline\" rate of 12.5%, and the much lower Irish corporate \"effective\" rate of 2–4%, is a source of controversy: \n\nThe Irish State asserts Ireland's ETR similar to the Irish \"headline\" CT rate of 12.5%. This is an important issue as Ireland's BEPS tools, the core of Ireland's , rely on having a global network of full bilateral tax treaties that accept Ireland's BEPS tools; major economies do not sign full bilateral tax treaties with known tax havens (e.g. Bermuda or Jersey). When the EU Commission published their findings on Apple's Irish BEPS tools in 2016 (see below), Brazil became the first G–20 economy to blacklist Ireland as a tax haven, and suspended the Brazil–Ireland bilateral tax treaty.\n\nIn 2014, Ireland refused to implement the 2013 EU Accounting Directive, and invoked exemptions on reporting holding company structures until 2022, so that multinationals can register as Irish \"unlimited liability companies\" (ULCs), which do not have to file public accounts with the Irish CRO. However, as most foreign multinationals in Ireland are major U.S. listed companies (see \"Table 1\"), tax academics have been able to estimate their Irish ETR from U.S. filings. In addition, the 2014–2016 EU investigation into Apple, Ireland's largest company, produced detail on Apple's Irish ETR from 2004–2014. \n\nIn February 1994, the most cited academic in tax haven research, American tax economist James R. Hines Jr., published the most cited academic paper on tax havens, titled: \"Fiscal Paradise: Foreign Tax Havens and American Business\"; which estimated in Appendix IV that Ireland's \"aggregate\" effective corporate rate (ETR) was 4%. \n\nIn October 2013, Bloomberg commissioned a \"Special Investigation\" into the tax affairs of U.S. multinationals in Ireland, which estimated that the effective tax rate of all U.S. multinationals in Ireland had fallen to 3% by 2010. The report featured research into the \"architect\" of the Double Irish BEPS tool, PWC tax partner Feargal O'Rourke, who Bloomberg noted was regarded as a \"hero\" in Ireland.\n\nIn February 2014, Trinity College, Dublin Professor of Finance, Dr. Jim Stewart, author of studies into Ireland's tax systems, used the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis data filed by U.S. multinationals on their global operations, to estimate that the effective tax rate of U.S. multinationals in Ireland for 2011 was 2.2% to 3.8% (depending on assumptions).\n\nIn November 2014, the \"Tax Justice Network\", in their \"Ireland Country Report\" from the 2013 Financial Secrecy Index, said the Irish State's claims that the effective tax rate was 12.5% were \"misleading\", and that Ireland's corporate ETR was between 2.5% to 4.5%, depending on the various assumptions used.\n\nIn November 2017, Irish economist David McWilliams writing in the \"Irish Times\" quoted that the U.S. BEA statistics implied that U.S. multinationals in Ireland paid an effective tax rate of 3.27% on Irish registered pre-tax income of $106,789 million in 2013, and 3.38% on Irish registered pre-tax income of $108,971 million in 2014, due to \"a myriad of loopholes to avoid even our own low rates of tax\".\n\nIn June 2018, 24 years after the 1994 James R. Hines paper into global corporate tax havens, noted French tax economist Gabriel Zucman, in his major study into the BEPS flows of global tax havens titled: \"The Missing Profits of Nations\"; also estimated in Appendix I of the study that Ireland's \"aggregate\" effective corporate tax rate was 4%.\n\nOver the years, the largest U.S. multinationals in Ireland, who are both Ireland's largest companies and pay most of Ireland's corporation tax (see low tax economy), have filed various accounts showing their Irish ETR. As discussed above, because Ireland refused to ratify the 2013 EU Accounting Directive, many of these multinationals have switched to \"unlimited liability companies\" in Ireland, which do not file accounts; thus the information is only available in a few cases. However, where U.S. multinationals have disclosed Irish financials, they all imply an Irish ETR of less than 1 percent. \n\nExamples are (see \"Table 1\" for rankings):\n\n\nIrish BEPS tools are not overtly marketed as brochures showing near-zero effective tax rates would damage Ireland's ability to sign and operate bilateral tax treaties (i.e. higher-tax countries do not sign full treaties with known tax havens). However, in the Irish financial crisis, some Irish tax law firms in the IFSC produced CAIA brochures openly marketing that its ETR was 2.5%.\n\nApple is Ireland's largest company, with Irish 2017 revenues that exceed the combined Irish 2017 revenues of the next 5 largest Irish companies added together. Apple has been in Ireland since at least December 1980, when it opened its first Irish plant in Holyhill, in Cork. Apple's tax strategies with Irish BEPS tools had long been under suspicion by tax academics and investigative journalists.\n\nIn May 2013, Apple's Irish tax practices were questioned by a U.S. bipartisan investigation of the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation. The investigation aimed to examine whether Apple used offshore structures, in conjunction with arrangements, to shift profits from the U.S. to Ireland. Senators Carl Levin and John McCain drew light on what they referred to as a special tax arrangement between Apple and Ireland which allowed Apple to pay a corporate tax rate of less than 2%. The investigation labelled Ireland as the \"holy grail of tax avoidance\".\n\nIn June 2014, the EU Commission launched an investigation into Apple's tax practices in Ireland for the period 2004–2014, whose summary findings were published on 30 August 2016 in a 4–page press release; with a 130–page report, including partially redacted information on Apple's Irish business (e.g. profits, employees, Board minutes etc.), published on 30 August 2016. Commissioner Margrethe Vestager stated: \"In fact, this selective treatment allowed Apple to pay an effective corporate tax rate of 1 per cent on its European profits in 2003, down to 0.005 per cent in 2014\".\n\nIn February 2014, as a result of Bloomberg's \"Special Investigation\" and Trinity College Professor Dr. Jim Stewart's ETR calculations (see above), the \"architect\" of Ireland's Double Irish BEPS tool, PricewaterhouseCoopers tax-partner Feargal O'Rourke, went on \"RTE Radio\" to state that: \"there was a hole the size of the Grand Canyon\", in the analysis. O'Rourke also referenced the PricewaterhouseCoopers/World Bank survey that Ireland's ETR was circa 12%. \n\nIn December 2014, the Irish Department of Finance, gathered a panel of Irish experts (but no international experts) to estimate Irish corporate ETR for the Committee on Finance Public Expenditure. The results, summarised on Section 2 (page 13) of the report, showed all of the Irish experts, with the exception of Dr. Jim Stewart, agreed with Feargal O'Rourke and PricewaterhouseCoopers:\n\n\nIn August 2016, when the EU Commission published the results of their 2–year detailed investigation of Apple's tax structure in Ireland (see above), showing that Apple's ETR in 2014 was 0.005%, the Irish Revenue Commissioners stated that they: \"had collected the full amount of tax that was due from Apple in accordance with the Irish law\".\n\nIn December 2017, the Department of Finance published a report they commissioned on the Irish corporate tax code by UCC economist, Seamus Coffey. The report estimated that Ireland's effective corporation tax rate for 2015 was 7.2%, based on the \"Net Operating Surplus Method\" (which accepts IP BEPS flows as tax deductible costs); and had fallen from 11.2% in 2008 (section 9.4 page 128).\n\nAn Irish corporate tax inversion is a strategy in which a foreign multinational acquires or merges with an Irish–based company, and then shifts its legal place of incorporation to Ireland to avail of Ireland's favourable corporate tax regime; however, the multinational's majority ownership, \"effective headquarters\" and executive management stay in its home jurisdiction. Ireland's corporate tax code has a holding company regime that enables the foreign multinational's new Irish–based \"legal headquarters\", to gain full Irish tax-relief on Irish withholding taxes and payment of dividends from Ireland.\n\nAlmost all tax inversions to Ireland have come from the U.S., and to a lesser degree, the UK (see below); the first U.S. tax inversions to Ireland were Ingersoll Rand and Accenture 2009, and as of November 2018, Ireland was also the destination for the largest U.S. corporate tax inversion in history, namely the $81 billion merger of Medtronic and Covidien in 2015. The U.S. tax code's anti-avoidance rules prohibit a U.S. company simply creating a new \"legal\" headquarters in Ireland while its main business is in the US (known as a \"self-inversion\"). Up until April 2016, the U.S. tax code would only consider the inverted company as foreign (i.e. outside the U.S. tax-code), where the inversion was part of an acquisition, and the Irish target was at least 20% of the value of the combined group; although the Irish target had to be over 40% of the combined group for the inversion to be fully considered as outside of the U.S. tax-code.\n\nOnce inverted, the U.S. company can use Irish multinational BEPS strategies to achieve an effective tax rate well below the Irish headline rate of 12.5% on non–U.S. income, and also reduce U.S. taxes on U.S. income. In September 2014, \"Forbes Magazine\" quoted research that estimated a U.S. inversion to Ireland reduced the U.S. multinational's \"aggregate\" tax rate from above 30% to well below 20%. \n\nIn July 2015, the \"Wall Street Journal\" noted that Ireland's lower ETR made U.S. multinationals who inverted to Ireland highly acquisitive of other U.S. firms (i.e. they could afford to pay more to acquire U.S. competitors to re-domicile them to Ireland), and listed the post-inversion acquisitions of Activis/Allergan, Endo, Mallinckrodt and Horizon.\n\nIn July 2017, the Irish Central Statistics Office (CSO) warned that tax inversions to Ireland artificially inflated Ireland's GDP data (e.g. without providing any Irish tax revenue).\n\n, Bloomberg ranks Ireland as the most popular destination for U.S. tax inversions, attracting almost a quarter of the 85 inversions since 1982:\n\n, the table below is the Bloomberg list of the 21 U.S. corporate tax inversions to Ireland (note, Bloomberg lists U.S. corporate tax inversions by order of the year in which they first left the U.S. which is used below). The table also includes some known aborted U.S. tax inversions to Ireland. All of the U.S. multinationals listed below are listed on stock exchanges and the Market Capitalisation is as per 21 November 2018. \"Spin-off inversions\" and \"self-inversions\" happen outside of the U.S. (e.g. the corporate/corporate parent had previously left the U.S.), and thus do not need an acquisition of an Irish—based corporate to execute the move to Ireland, as per U.S. tax code requirements (see above).\n\nIn April 2016, the Obama administration announced new tax rules to increase the threshold for a U.S. corporate tax inversion to be considered a \"foreign company\", and thus escape U.S. taxation. The new rules were directly designed to block the proposed $160 billion merger of U.S.–based Pfizer and Irish–based Allergan, which would have been the largest corporate tax inversion in history. The rule changes worked by disregarding acquisitions a target (e.g. Allergan), had made in the 3 years prior to the inversion, in meeting the requirement for the target to be 40% of the merged group.\n\nIn December 2017, the Trump administration's U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) overhauled the U.S. tax-code and replicated many of the changes the UK made to their tax-code in 2009–2012 to successfully combat inversions (see below). In particular, the TCJA moved the U.S to a hybrid–\"territorial tax\" system, reduced the headline rate from 35% to 21% and introduced a new GILTI–FDII–BEAT regime designed to remove incentives for U.S. multinationals to execute corporate tax inversions to Ireland. \n\nIn December 2017, U.S technology firm Vantiv, the world's largest payment processing company, confirmed it had abandoned its plan to execute a corporate tax inversion to Ireland. In Q1 2018, Pfizer disclosed that post the TCJA its global tax rate for 2019 would be 17%, similar to the circa 15–16% 2019 tax rate of past U.S. corporate tax inversions to Ireland, Eaton, Allergan, and Medtronic. In March 2018, the Head of Life Sciences in \"Goldman Sachs\", Jami Rubin, stated that: \"Now that [U.S.] corporate tax reform has passed, the advantages of being an inverted company are less obvious\". In August 2018, U.S. multinational Afilias, who had been headquartered in Ireland since 2001, announced that as a result of the TCJA, it was moving back to the U.S.\n\n, there have been no further U.S. corporate tax inversions to Ireland since the 2016–2017 rule changes by the Obama, and the Trump administrations.\n\nApple's Q1 2015 leprechaun economics re-structure of their Irish BEPS tool, is considered by some economists to be a quasi–inversion. Whereas Apple did not relocate its corporate headquarters to Ireland like Pfizer tried to do with Allergan, Apple was able to use the CAIA BEPS tool to legally re-locate $300 billion of IP, equivalent to all of Apple's non–U.S. business, to Ireland. While the Obama administration blocked the proposed $160 billion Pfizer–Allergan tax inversion to Ireland in 2016 (see above), Apple completed a much larger transaction in Q1 2015, that remained unknown until January 2018. In July 2018, the Irish \"Sunday Business Post\" reported that Microsoft was planning a similar IP–based quasi–inversion to Ireland, as Apple executed in 2015.\n\nIreland's largest law firm, \"Authur Cox\", records the move of \"Experian plc\" to Ireland in 2006, as the first UK corporate tax inversion to Ireland. Experian was formed in 2006 from the de-merger of UK conglomerate GUS plc, but most of Experian's business was U.S. based (e.g. it had a limited connection to the UK).\n\nBetween 2007 and 2009, several UK multinationals \"re-domiciled\" to Ireland: WPP plc, United Busines Media plc, Henderson Group plc, Shire plc and Charter (Engineering) plc. Unlike the U.S. tax-code, the UK tax-code did not require the inversion to be executed by way of an acquisition of an Irish–based corporate who was at least 20% of the merged group. However, in 2009, the UK Labour government switched to a \"territorial tax\" system, and over 2009 to 2012, the UK Conservative government introduced a number of other corporate tax reforms including reduction of the UK headline CT rate to 20%, creation of new BEPS tools (e.g. a \"patent box\"), and re-structure of \"controlled foreign corporation\" (CFC) rules. By 2014, the UK \"HMRC\" reported that most of the UK multinationals that had inverted to Ireland had either returned to the UK (e.g., WPP plc, United Business Media plc, Henderson plc), or were about to be acquired by U.S. multinationals as part of a U.S. tax inversion (e.g. Shire plc).\n\nThe UK corporate tax reforms not only reversed many of Irish tax inversions but in 2014, the \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that \"In U.S. tax inversion Deals, U.K. is now a winner\". , the UK had received the 3rd–largest number of U.S. corporate tax inversions in history, only ranking behind Ireland and Bermuda in popularity (see above).\n\n, there have been no further UK corporate tax inversions to Ireland since the 2009–2012 rule changes by the Labour, and the Conservative governments.\n\nIreland's largest law firm, \"Authur Cox\", records the move of \"Pentair\" to Ireland in 2014, as the first Swiss corporate tax inversion to Ireland. However, Pentair was a U.S.–controlled firm that had previously inverted to Switzerland, and moved to Ireland (without a corporate acquisition), in 2014 to make it more attractive to a larger U.S. corporate tax inversion, which Emerson Electric attempted in 2016, however the change in the U.S. tax-code (see above), meant that Emmerson decided to abandon the inversion, and instead purchased a division of called \"Pentair Valves\" for $3.15 billion; the renaming Pentair group re-domiciled to the UK in 2018.\n\n, outside of U.S. and UK inversions to Ireland, there have been no other recorded corporate tax inversions to Ireland from other jurisdictions.\n\nIreland is labelled a both a corporate tax haven, due to its BEPS tools (e.g. Double Irish, Single Malt and CAIA), and a traditional tax haven, due to QIAIFs. The topic is covered in more detail in Ireland as a tax haven, however, the main facts regarding Ireland's corporate tax haven status are:\nIreland does not appear on the 2017 OECD list of tax havens; only Trinidad and Tobago is on the 2017 OECD list, and no OECD member has ever been listed. Ireland does not appear on the 2017 EU list of 17 tax havens, or the EU's list of 47 \"greylist\" tax havens; again, no EU-28 country has ever been listed by the EU.\n\nIn September 2008, the \"New York Times\" reported that \"Britain is facing a potential new problem: an exodus of British companies fleeing the tax system\". During 2007–2008, several major UK multinationals executed corporate tax inversions to Ireland. During 2009–2012, both the Labour Government and the Conservative Government, overhauled the UK corporate tax code, switching from a \"worldwide tax\" system to a \"territorial tax\" system. By 2014, the UK \"HMRC\" reported most of the UK firms that inverted to Ireland had returned to the UK (e.g., WPP plc, United Business Media plc, Henderson plc), or were about to be acquired by U.S. multinationals as part of a U.S. tax inversion (e.g. Shire plc). \n\n, since the UK overhauled its tax code, there have been no inversions of UK firms to Ireland; of the 3 main UK–controlled firms in Ireland (see \"Table 1\"):\n\n\nWhile national tax policy is excluded from EU treaties, the EU has challenged Ireland's tax code under State-aid legislation. Seamus Coffey's 2016 \"Review of Ireland's Corporation Tax Code\" chronicled how the EU withdrew the exemption from State-aid rules for Ireland's special tax rate of 10% in 1996–1998, however, Ireland countered the EU withdrawal by lowering the entire Irish standard rate of corporate tax from 40% to 12.5% over 1996–2003 (see . In October 1994, the \"Financial Times\" chronicled how the EU Commission forced the closure of the Double Irish BEPS tool in 2015 on the threat of a full State-aid investigation into Ireland's tax code. However, Ireland won a concession from the EU to allow existing users of the Double Irish (e.g. Google, Facebook, Microsoft) to keep using it until 2020, and developed replacement BEPS tools, namely the Single Malt and CAIA BEPS tools. In August 2016, the EU Commission levied the largest corporate tax fine in history, on Apple's Irish Double Irish BEPS tool from 2004–2014, using State-aid rules.\n\nIn January 2017, the EU Commissioner for Taxation, Pierre Moscovici, explicitly stated to an Irish State Oireachtas Finance Committee that \"Ireland is not a tax haven\", however, in January 2018 Moscovi called Ireland and the Netherlands \"tax black holes\". In January 2018, Ireland was accused of \"tax dumping\" by German political leaders.\n\nIn March 2018, the EU Commission proposed a \"Digital Services Tax\" (DST), targeted at U.S. technology firms using Irish BEPS tools. The DST is designed to \"override\" Ireland's BEPS tools and force a minimum level of EU tax on U.S. technology firms. The EU have proposed the DST should be a 3% tax on revenues which would translate into an effective 10–15% tax rate (using pre-tax margins of 20–30% for Apple, Google and Microsoft); it is also expensible against national tax, and so the DST would reduce net Irish tax (e.g. Google Ireland would offset its DST against Irish CT). \n\nIn April 2018, the EU Commission's GDPR rules forced Facebook to move 1.5 billion of the 1.9 billion Facebook accounts hosted in Ireland ( 79% of the 2.4 billion total global Facebook accounts), back to the U.S. The April 2018 Irish High Court ruling in the Max Schrems EU data-protection case could make Ireland even less attractive to Facebook.\n\nThe EU Commission's long-standing desire to introduce a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (\"CCCTB\"), would have a more severe effect on Ireland's CT system.\n\nThe U.S. has had a contradictory approach to Ireland's CT system. U.S. investigations, from the first U.S. IRS study in 1981, up to and including 2013 U.S. McCain–Levin Senate investigations into Apple's tax structures, label Ireland as a \"tax haven\" for U.S. multinationals. However, it was the EU and not the U.S., that forced Ireland to close its Double Irish BEPS tool in 2015. While the Obama administration supported the McCain–Levin findings on Apple, it came to Apple's defense in 2016 when the EU Commission fined Apple €13 billion for taxes avoided over 2004–2014.\n\nThis contradiction is chronicled in \"political compromises\". The source of the contradiction is ascribed to the findings of U.S. tax academic, James R. Hines Jr.; Hines is the most cited author on tax haven research, and his important 1994 Hines–Rice paper was one of the first to use the term\" \"profit shifting\"\". The 1994 Hines–Rice paper showed that \"low foreign tax rates [from tax havens] ultimately enhance U.S. tax collections\". Hines' insight that the U.S. is the largest beneficiary from tax havens was confirmed by others, and dictated U.S. policy towards tax havens, including the 1996 \"check-the-box\" rules, and U.S. hostility to OECD attempts in curbing Ireland's BEPS tools.\n\nHowever, by 2014 Ireland had become the leading destination for U.S. corporate tax inversions, and in 2016, the Obama administration decided to move against Ireland's CT system by amending the U.S. tax-code to block the proposed $160 billion Pfizer–Allergan Irish corporate tax inversion, which would have been the largest tax inversion in history.\n\nThe most serious threat to Ireland's CT system, and Ireland's economic model came in December 2017 with the passing of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) by the Trump administration. Parts of the TCJA are specifically targeted at Irish BEPS tools as used by U.S. multinationals in Ireland. The TCJA introduces many of the changes that the UK made to its tax code in 2009-2012, including moving to a \"territorial tax\" system and reduction of headline rate of tax; the UK changes reversed many of the UK corporate tax inversions to Ireland. However the TCJA goes even further and the GILTI–FDII–BEAT tax regime are a more severe \"carrot and stick\" to encourage U.S. multinationals to re-locate their substantive operations (and IP), back to the U.S.\n\nHowever, the TCJA is large and complex, and in 2018, tax experts have noted that errors and flaws in the TCJA, could be a \"boom for Ireland\", over the next few years.\n\nThe above post–2009 UK, EU and U.S. countermeasures against Ireland's corporate tax system, and by extension Ireland's economic model, have been a cause of concern in Ireland, and even the \"architect\" of Ireland's BEPS tools, PricewaterhouseCoopers tax-partner, Feargal O'Rourke, has warned on the sustainability of Irish CT revenues.\n\nIn December 2017, the Irish Government publilshed a study on the sustainability of its corporate tax system by University College Cork economist Seamus Coffey. Coffey reported that Irish CT revenues were sustainable to 2020, but caveated that given the concentration of CT revenues to a handful of U.S. multinationals, a shock to Ireland's CT revenues is \"inevitalbe\".\n\nIn Q2 2018, an IMF country report on Ireland, while noting the significant exposure of Ireland's economy to U.S. corporates, concluded that the TCJA may not be as effective as Washington expects in countering Ireland as a U.S. corporate tax haven. In writing its report, the IMF conducted confidential anonymous interviews with Irish corporate tax experts.\n\nHowever, in June 2018, the former IMF mission-chief for Ireland Ashoka Mody, who oversaw Ireland's bailout during the 2009–22012 Irish financial crisis, warned that in relation to TCJA:\n\nThe following are the historical rates of Irish corporation tax since 1994.\n\nA special rate of 10% for companies in manufacturing (and the Shannon Free Zone), was introduced in 1980–81 (with EU State-aid approval), and extended to the financial services in the International Financial Services Centre (IFSC) zone in 1987 (with EU State-aid approval); due to EU decision to withdraw EU State-aid approval in 1996–1998, the special rate was phased-out and ended on 31 December 2003 for new schemes, with expiry for all existing IFSC schemes in 2005, and all existing manufacturing schemes by 2010. To counter the EU's decision to withdraw State-aid approval for Ireland's special rate, the Irish State reduced the Irish \"standard rate\" of corporation tax from 40% in 1995, to 12.5% by 2003; splitting the standard rate into trading and non-trading rates in 2000.\n\nIreland's corporate tax code has gone through distinct phases of development, from building a separate dentify from the British system, to most distinctively, post the creation of the Irish International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") in 1987, becoming a \"low tax\" knowlegdge based (i.e. focus intgangible assets) multinational economy. This has not been without controversy and complaint from both Ireland's EU partners, and also from the US (whose multinationals, for specific reasons, comprise almost all of the major foreign multinationals in Ireland).\n\nIt was only with the acceptance of the Anglo-Irish Treaty by both the Dáil and British House of Commons in 1922 that the mechanisms of a truly independent state begin to emerge in the Irish Free State. In keeping with many other decisions of the newly independent state the Provisional Government and later the Free State government continued with the same practices and policies of the iriash administration with regard to corporate taxation.\n\nThis continuation meant that the British system of \"corporate profits taxation\" (\"CPT\") in addition to income tax on the profits of firms was kept. The CPT was a relatively new innovation in the United Kingdom and had only been introduced in the years after World War I, and was widely believed at the time to have been a temporary measure. However, the system of firms being taxed firstly through income taxed and then through the CPT was to remain until the late seventies and the introduction of Corporation Tax, which combined the income and corporation profits tax in one.\n\nDuring the years of W. T. Cosgrave's governments, the principal aim with regard to fiscal policy was to reduce expenditure and follow that with similar reductions in taxation. This policy of tax reduction did not extend to the rate of the CPT, but companies did benefit from two particular measures of the Cosgrave government. Firstly, and probably the achievement of which the Cumann na nGaedheal administration was most proud, was the reduction by 50% in the rate of income tax from 6 shillings in the pound to 3 shillings. While this measure benefited all income earners, be they private individuals or incorporated companies, a number of adjustments in the Finance Acts, culminating in 1928, increased the allowance on which firms were not subject to taxation under the CPT. This allowance was increased from £500, the rate at the time of independence, to £10,000 in 1928. This measure was in part to compensate Irish firms for the continuation of the CPT after it has been abolished in the United Kingdom.\n\nA measure which marked the last years of the Cumann na nGaedheal government, and one that was out of kilter with their general free trade policy, but which came primarily as a result of Fianna Fáil pressure over the 'protection' of Irish industry, was the introduction of a higher rate of CPT for foreign firms. This measure survived until 1948, when the Inter-Party government rescinded it, as many countries with which the government was attempting to come to double taxation treaties viewed it as discriminatory.\n\nThe near twenty years of Fianna Fáíl government between from 1931 to 1948, cannot be said to have been a time where much effort was expended on changing or analysing the taxation system of corporations. Indeed, only one policy sticks out during those year of Fianna Fáil rule; being the continued reduction in the level of the allowance on which firms were to be exempt from taxation under the CPT, from £10,000 when Cumman na nGaehael left office, to £5,000 in 1932 and finally to £2,500 in 1941. The impact of this can be seen in the increasing importance of CPT as a percentage of government revenue, rising from and less than 1% of tax revenue in the first decade of the Free State to 3.64% in the decade 1942–43 to 1951–52. This increase in revenue from the CPT was due to more firms being in the tax net, as well as the reduction in allowances. The increased tax net can be seen from the fact that between 1932–33 and 1938–39, the number of firms paying CPT increased by over 33%. One other aspect of the Fianna Fáil government which bears all the fingerprints of Seán Lemass, was the 1946 decision to allow mining companies to write off all capital expenditure against tax over five years.\n\nThe period between after the late 1950s and up to the mid-1970s can be viewed as a period of radical change in the evolution of the Irish Corporate Taxations system. The increasing realisation of the government that Ireland would be entering into an age of increasing free trade encouraged a number of reforms of the tax system. By the mid-1970s, a number of amendments, additions and changes had been made to the CPT, these included fifteen-year tax holidays for exporting firms, the decision by the government to allow full depreciation in 1971 and in 1973, and the Section 34 of the Finance Act, which allowed total tax relief in respect of royalties and other income from licenses patented in Ireland.\n\nThis period from c.1956 to c.1975, is probably the most influential on the evolution of the Irish corporate tax system and marked the development of an 'Irish' corporate tax system, rather than continuing with a version of the British model.\n\nThis period saw the creation of Corporation Tax, which combined the Capital Gains, Income and Corporation Profits Tax that firms previously had to pay. Future changes to the corporate tax system, such as the measures implemented by various governments over the last twenty years can be seen as a continuation of the policies of this period. The introduction in 1981 of the 10% tax on manufacturing was simply the easiest way to adjust to the demands of the EEC to abolish the export relief, which the EEC viewed as discriminatory. With the accession to the EEC, the advantages of this policy became increasingly obvious to both the Irish government and to foreign multi-nationals; by 1982 over 80% of companies who located in Ireland cited the taxation policy as the primary reason they did so.\n\nThe Irish International Financial Services Centre (\"IFSC\") was created in Dubin in 1987 by Taoiseach Charles Haughey with an EU approved 10% special economic zone corporate tax rate for global financial firms within its 11-hectare site. The creation of the IFSC is often considered the birth of the Celtic Tiger and the driver of its first phase of growth in the 1990s.\n\nIn response to EU pressure to phase out the 10% IFSC rate by the end 2005, the overall Irish corporation tax was reduced to 12.5% on trading income, from 32%, effectively turning the entire Irish country into an IFSC. This gave the second boost to the Celtic Tiger from 2000 up until the Irish economic crisis in 2009.\n\nIn the 1998 Budget (in December 1997) Finance Minister, Charlie McCreevy introduced the legislation for a new regime of corporation tax that led to the introduction of the 12.5% rate of corporation tax for trading income from 1 January 2003. The legislation was contained in section 71 of the Finance Act 1999 and provided for a phased introduction of the 12.5% rate from 32% for the financial year 1998 to 12.5% commencing from 1 January 2003. A higher rate of corporation tax of 25% was introduced for passive income, income from a foreign trade and some development and mining activities. Manufacturing relief, effectively a 10% rate of corporation tax, was ended on 31 December 2002. For companies that were claiming this relief before 23 July 1998, it would still be available until 31 January 2010. The 10% rate for IFSC activities ended on 31 December 2005 and after this date, these companies moved to the 12.5% rate provided their trade qualified as an Irish trading activity.\n\nThe additional passing of the important Irish Taxes Consolidation Act, 1997 (“TCA”) by Charlie McCreevy laid the foundation for the new vehicles and structures that would become used by IFSC law and accounting firms to help global multinationals use Ireland as a platform to avoid non-US taxes (and even the 12.5% Irish corporate tax rate). These vehicles would become famous as the Double Irish, Single Malt and the Capital Allowances for Intangible Assets tax arrangements. The Act also created the Irish Section 110 SPV, which would make the IFSC the largest securitisation location in the EU.\n\nThe Irish financial crises created unprecedented forces in the Economy. Irish banks, the largest domestic corporate taxpayers, faced insolvency, while Irish public and private debt-to-GDP metrics approached the highest levels in the OECD. The Irish Government needed foreign capital to re-balance their overleveraged economy. Directly, and indirectly, they amended many Irish corporate tax structures from 2009-2015 to effectively make them \"zero-tax\" structures for foreign multinationals and foreign investors. The US Bureau of Economic Analysis (\"BEA\") \"effective\" Irish CT rate, fell to 2.5%.\n\nThey materially expanded the capital allowances for intangible assets scheme in the 2009 Finance Act. This would encourage US multinationals to locate intellectual property assets in Ireland (as opposed to the Caribbean, as per the double Irish scheme), which would albeit artificially, raise Irish economic statistics to improve Ireland's \"headline\" Debt-to-GDP metric. They also indirectly, allowed US distressed debt funds to use the Irish Section 110 SPV to enable them to avoid Irish taxes on the circa €100bn of domestic Irish assets they bought from NAMA (and other financial institutions) from 2012-2016.\n\nWhile these BEPS schemes were successful in capital, they had downsides. US multinational tax schemes lead to large distortions in Irish GNI/GNP/GDP statistics. When Apple \"onshored\" their ASI subsidiary in January 2015, it caused Irish GDP to rise 26.3% in one quarter (\"leprechaun economics\"). Foreign multinationals were now 80% of corporate taxes, and concentrated in a smaller group. In response, the Government introduced \"modified GNI\" (or GNI*) in 2017, which was circa 40% below 2017 Irish GDP, and a paired back of some BEPS schemes to improve corporation tax sustainability.\n\nIreland's BEPS tax strategy led it to become labelled as one of the top 5 global conduit OFCs, and has come under attack from the US and the EU (Apple's largest tax fine in history). Under pressure from the EU, Ireland closed down the double Irish in 2015, which was described as the largest tax avoidance scheme in history. However, Ireland replaced it with the new single malt system, and an expanded capital allowances scheme. More targeted responses have come in the form of the US 2017 TCJA (esp. FDII and GILTI rates), and the EU's 2018 impending Digital Services Tax.\n\n"}
{"id": "362410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362410", "title": "Fathers' rights movement", "text": "Fathers' rights movement\n\nThe fathers' rights movement is a movement whose members are primarily interested in issues related to family law, including child custody and child support that affect fathers and their children. Many of its members are fathers who desire to share the parenting of their children equally with their children's mothers—either after divorce or as unwed fathers—and the children of the terminated marriage. The movement includes men as well as women, often the second wives of divorced fathers or other family members of men who have had some engagement with family law.\n\nMost of its members had little prior interest in the law or politics. However, as they felt that their goal of equal-shared parenting was being frustrated by the family courts, many took an interest in family law, including child custody and child support.\n\nThough it has been described as a social movement, members of the movement believe their actions are better described as part of a civil rights movement. Objections to the characterizations of the movement as a social movement are related to the belief that discrimination against fathers moves beyond the social sciences and originates in government intervention into family life.\n\nThe movement has received international press coverage as a result of high-profile activism of their members. It has become increasingly vocal, visible and organised, and has played a powerful role in family law debates.\n\nThe fathers' rights movement exists almost exclusively in industrialized countries, where divorce has become more common. It emerged in the West from the 1960s onwards as part of the men's movement with organizations such as Families Need Fathers, which originated in the 1970s. In the late twentieth century, the growth of the internet permitted wider discussion, publicity and activism about issues of interest to fathers' rights activists. Factors thought to contribute to the development of the fathers' rights movement include shifting household demographics brought about by rising divorce and falling marriage rates, changes in the understanding and expectations of fatherhood, motherhood and childhood as well as shifts in how legal systems impact families.\n\nFathers' rights groups in the West are primarily composed of white, middle or working class, heterosexual men. Members tend to be politically conservative but do not share a single set of political or social views and are highly diverse in their goals and methods. Members of the fathers' rights movement advocate for strong relationships with their children and focus on a narrowly defined set of issues based on the concerns of divorced or divorcing men. Women, often new partners including second wives or other family members of men who have had some engagement with family law and mothers without custody, are also members of the fathers' rights movement, and fathers' rights activists emphasize this. Two studies of fathers' rights groups in North America found that fifteen percent of their members were women.\n\nThe fathers' rights movement organizations Families Need Fathers and the Lone Fathers Association have campaigned for fathers' rights over many decades. Longer lasting organizations appear to result from the longterm dedication and commitment of key individuals. Other fathers' rights groups have tended to form and dissolve quickly. Internal disagreements over ideology and tactics are common, and members tend not to remain with the groups after they have been helped.\n\nThe fathers' rights movement has both liberal and conservative branches, with different viewpoints about how men and women compare. Although both groups agree on the victimization and discrimination against men, they disagree on why men and women differ (nature versus nurture) and traditional gender roles. The liberal version believes the differences between the sexes are due to culture and supports equality between men and women; in contrast, the conservative branch believes in traditional patriarchal/complementary families and that the differences between genders are due to biology. Ross Parke and Armin Brott view the fathers' rights movement as one of three strands within the men's movement that deal almost exclusively with fatherhood, the other two being the good fathers' movement and groups forming the Christian Men's movement – the Promise Keepers being the largest.\n\nWarren Farrell, a veteran of the women's, men's and fathers' movement since the 1970s, describes the fathers' rights movement as part of a larger \"gender transition movement\" and thinks that, similar to women in the 1960s, fathers are transitioning from gender-based to more flexible family roles. Farrell also believes the movement helps children by increasing the number who are raised equally by both parents, which in turn increases the children's social, academic, psychological, and physical benefits—in his opinion it becomes a children's rights issue with fathers acting as advocates.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement assert that fathers are discriminated against as a result of gender bias in family law; that custody decisions have been a denial of equal rights; and that the influence of money has corrupted family law. The movement's primary focus has been to campaign (including lobbying and research) for formal legal rights for fathers, and sometimes for children, and to campaign for changes to family law related to child custody, support and maintenance, domestic violence and the family court system itself. Fathers' rights groups also provide emotional and practical support for members during separation and divorce.\n\nSome fathers' rights groups have become frustrated with the slow pace of traditional campaigning for law reform; groups such as the originally UK-based \"Fathers 4 Justice\" have become increasingly vocal and visible, undertaking public demonstrations that have attracted public attention and influenced the politics of family justice. Following protests, some fathers' rights activists have been convicted of offenses such as harassment and assault. Fathers' rights groups have condemned threats and violent acts, with Matt O'Connor of Fathers 4 Justice asserting that his organisation was committed to \"peaceful, non-violent direct action\" and that members caught engaging in intimidation would be expelled. An example of this was in January 2006, when Matt temporarily disbanded the group after it was revealed that a fringe subsection of members were plotting to kidnap Leo Blair, the young son of Tony Blair, the former UK Prime Minister. According to the police, the plot never progressed beyond the \"chattering stage\". Four months later the group was refounded.\n\nSome desperate members of the fathers' rights movement, most notably Thomas Ball have advocated violent action to get the message across, just before he self-immolated himself on the steps of a courthouse in Keene, New Hampshire, he wrote in his 15-page \"Last Statement\" that fathers should burn down courthouses and police stations.\n\nStephen Baskerville is an associate professor of political science, president of the American Coalition of Fathers and Children and fathers' rights advocate and defines court-determined custody as not a right to parent one's children but as the power to prevent the other partner from parenting. Members of the fathers' rights movement state that family courts are biased against fathers and shared custody. Baskerville states that the outcome of divorce is overly one-sided and is initiated by mothers in more than two-thirds of cases – especially when children are involved. He also states that divorce provides advantages for women such as automatic custody of the children and financial benefits in the form of child support payments. Members of the FR movement also state that family courts are slow to help fathers enforce their parental rights, and are expensive and time-consuming.\n\nBaskerville has also stated that family courts are secretive, censoring and punitive towards fathers who criticize them. He also claims that employees and activists within the courts support and benefit from the separation of children from their parents and that family law today represents civil rights abuses and intrusive perversion of government power.\n\nOthers contest these conclusions, stating that family courts are biased in favor of fathers and that the lower percentage of separated fathers as custodial parents is a result of choices made by fathers rather than bias of family courts. According to sociologist Michael Flood, father's rights activists have exaggerated the disparity in custody awards between mothers and fathers, and ignored the fact that in the vast majority of cases, fathers voluntarily relinquish custody of their children through private arrangements; either because they are willing to do so, or because they do not expect a favorable court ruling.\n\nStating that \"children need two parents\" and that \"children have a fundamental human right to an opportunity and relationship with both their mother and father\", members of the fathers' rights movement call for greater equality in parental responsibility following separation and divorce. They call for laws creating a rebuttable presumption of 50/50 shared custody after divorce or separation, so that children would spend equal time with each parent unless there were reasons against it. They point to studies showing that children in shared custody settings are better adjusted and have fewer social problems such as low academic achievement, crime, pregnancy, substance abuse, depression and suicide, and state that shared parenting is in fact in the best interests of the child. Warren Farrell states that for children, equally shared parenting with three conditions (the child has about equal time with mom and dad, the parents live close enough to each other that the child does not need to forfeit friends or activities when visiting the other parent, and there is no bad-mouthing) is the second best family arrangement to the intact two-parent family, followed by primary father custody and then primary mother custody, and he adds that if shared parenting cannot be agreed upon, children on average are better off psychologically, socially, academically, and physically, have higher levels of empathy and assertiveness, and lower levels of ADHD, if their father is their primary custodial parent rather than their mother.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement and their critics disagree about the correlation of negative developmental outcomes for children to sole custody situations. Social scientist V. C. McLoyd states that father absence covaries with other relevant family characteristics such as the lack of an income from a male adult, the absence of a second adult, and the lack of support from a second extended family system and conclude that it is the negative effects of poverty, and not the absence of a father, that result in negative developmental outcomes. On the other hand, Professor Craig Hart states that although the consequences of poverty and having a single parent are interrelated, each is a risk factor with independent effects on children, and Silverstein and Auerbach state that the negative outcomes for children in sole custody situations correlate more strongly to \"fatherlessness\" than to any other variable including poverty.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement criticize the best interests of the child standard currently used in many countries for making custody decisions, which they describe as highly subjective and based on the personal prejudices of family court judges and court-appointed child custody evaluators, and that courts are abusive when more than half custody is taken away from a willing, competent parent. Members of the fathers' rights movement including Ned Holstein state that a rebuttable presumption of shared parenting is supported by a majority of citizens. Baskerville writes that proposals to enact shared parenting laws are opposed by divorce lawyers, and he says that \"radical feminist\" groups oppose shared parenting because of the possibility of domestic violence and child abuse.\n\nMo Yee Lee states that joint custody arrangements are good for children only if there is no conflict between the parents. Some feminist groups have stated that if shared parenting were ordered, fathers would not provide their share of the daily care for the children. The National Organization For Women also questions the motives of those promoting shared parenting, noting that it would result in substantial decreases in or termination of child support payments.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that shared parenting has been demonstrated to reduce parental conflict by requiring parents to cooperate and compromise, and that it is the lack of constraint by one parent resulting from the ability of that parent to exclude the other, that results in increased parental conflict. He further states that only when child support guidelines exceed true costs do parents ask for or seek to prevent changes in parenting time for financial reasons, adding that any argument that a parent is asking for increased parenting time to reduce child support is at the same time an argument that the other parent is making a profit from child support.\n\nStephen Baskerville describes no-fault or unilateral divorce based on no fault as a power grab by the parent that initiates the divorce and he also states that fathers have a constitutional right to shared control of their children and through political action they intend to establish parental authority for both parents and for the well-being of their children. Members of the fathers' rights movement state that a rebuttable presumption for shared parenting preserves a child's protection against unfit or violent parents.\n\nPro-feminist sociologist Michael Flood states that supporters of shared parenting use it only as a symbolic issue related to \"rights\", \"equality\", and \"fairness\" and that the father's rights movement is not actually interested in the shared care of their children or the children's wishes, adding that fathers' rights groups have advocated policies and strategies that are harmful to mothers and children and also harmful to the fathers themselves. In contrast, social scientist Sanford Braver states that the bad divorced dad image is a myth that has led to harmful and dangerous social policies.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement campaign for the reform of child support guidelines, which in most Western countries are based on maintaining the children's standard of living after separation, and on the assumption that the children live with one parent and never with the other. Activists state that the current guidelines are arbitrary, provide mothers with financial incentives to divorce, and leave fathers with little discretionary income to enjoy with the children during their parenting time. In the US, fathers' rights activists propose guidelines based on a Cost Shares model, in which child support would be based on the average income of the parents and the estimated child costs incurred by both parents. Laura W. Morgan has stated that it focuses on the relative living standards of divorcing parents rather than the best interests of the children and financially supporting them at the same level after divorce.\n\nSolangel Maldonado states that the law should value a broader definition of fathering for poor fathers by reducing the focus on collecting child support and encouraging the informal contributions (such as groceries, clothes, toys, time with the children) of these fathers by counting these contributions as child support.\n\nMembers of the fathers' rights movement state that child support should be terminated under certain conditions, such as if the custodial parent limits access to the children by moving away against the wishes of the other parent, gives fraudulent testimony, or if paternity fraud is discovered, adding that two men should not have to pay child support for the same child.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that it is often difficult for fathers in financial hardship or who take on a larger caregiving role with their children to have their child support payments lowered. He also states that unemployment is the primary cause of child support arrears, and further states that these arrearages make the father subject to arrest and imprisonment without due process.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that the purpose of child support should be publicly determined, and enforcement programs must be designed to serve that purpose, observing the due process of law.\n\nSupporters of the fathers' rights movement assert that some women make false claims of domestic violence, sexual or child abuse in order to gain an upper hand in divorce, custody disputes and/or prevent fathers from seeing their children, and they state that lawyers advise women to make such claims. They state that false claims of domestic violence and child abuse are encouraged by the inflammatory \"win or lose\" nature of child custody hearings, that men are presumed to be guilty rather than innocent by police and by the courts, Lawyers and advocates for abused women assert that family court proceedings are commonly accompanied with allegations of domestic violence because of the prevalence of domestic violence in society rather than as a result of false allegations of domestic violence. They also assert that domestic violence often begins or increases around the time of divorce or separation. Academic critic, Michael Flood, argues that fathers' rights groups have had a damaging impact on the field of domestic violence programming and policy by attempting to discredit female victims of violence, to wind back the legal protections available to victims and the sanctions imposed on perpetrators, and to undermine services for the victims of men's violence. Stephen Baskerville asserts that when child abuse occurs the perpetrator is not likely to be the father, and that child abuse most often occurs after the father has been separated from his children. Baskerville proposes that domestic violence and child abuse must be adjudicated as criminal assault, observing due process protections, and that government funding for programs addressing these issues must be made contingent on such protections.\n\nGlenn Sacks states that some mothers interfere with the father's parenting time and that such interference should be stopped. Sacks and Jeffery M. Leving state that parenting time interference can result from the custodial parent's relocation beyond a practical distance from the noncustodial parent and they campaign for a rebuttable presumption prohibiting such relocations.\n\nFathers' rights activists have also advocated for the inclusion of parental alienation syndrome, a proposed syndrome developed by Richard A. Gardner that alleges unjustified disruption of the relationship between a parent and a child is caused by the other parent. Neither PAS nor PAD are accepted by any legal or mental health organization. Despite lobbying, parental alienation syndrome was not included in the draft of the DSM manual that was released in 2010, though parental alienation disorder does appear as a \"Condition Proposed by Outside Sources\" to be reviewed by a working group.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that laws establishing no-fault divorce did not stop at removing the requirement that grounds be cited for a divorce, so as to allow for divorce by \"mutual consent\"; it also allows either spouse to end the marriage without any agreement or fault by the other. Phyllis Schlafly states that no-fault divorce should be referred to as unilateral divorce.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that laws establishing no-fault divorce can be seen as one of the boldest social experiments in modern history that have effectively ended marriage as a legal contract. He states that it is not possible to form a binding agreement to create a family, adding that government officials can, at the request of one spouse, end a marriage over the objection of the other. He states that no-fault divorce has left fathers with no protection against what he describes as the confiscation of their children.\n\nBaskerville states that fault has entered through the back door in the form of child custody hearings, and that the forcibly divorced spouse (\"defendant\") is presumed guilty. Similarly, other members of the fathers' rights movement believe that men fail to get appropriate recognition of their innocence as a result of no-fault divorce. Baskerville describes a proposed amendment of no-fault divorce laws that would create a rebuttable presumption that custody of any minor children be awarded to the respondent [who is innocent or does not wish to divorce] regardless of gender. He also notes the predictions of Tim O'Brien, the author of the proposed amendment, who states that the proposed amendment would result in a plummeting divorce rate and reduced negative consequences for children.\n\nStephen Baskerville proposes \"reasonable limits\" on no-fault divorce when children are involved. Some members of the FRM support the end of the no-fault principle in child custody and divorce decisions. Some members of the fathers' rights movement state that the availability of divorce should also be limited.\n\nStephen Baskerville states that governments throughout the United States and other democracies are engaged, by accident or design, in a campaign against fathers and fatherhood, which in his view, lies at the root of a larger problem that threatens marriage, destroys families, devastates the lives of many children, and undermines parents, democracy and accountability. Baskerville also states that it is the removal of the father from the family through divorce that initiates problems for which the government is perceived as the solution rather than the problem, and that these problems are then used to justify the continued existence and expansion of the government. Members of the fathers' rights movement state that modern divorce involves government officials invading parents' private lives, evicting people from their homes, seizing their property, and taking away their children.\n\nFathers' rights advocates have worked for the right of unwed, otherwise fit, fathers to get custody if the mother tries to have their child adopted by a third party or if child welfare authorities place the child in foster care. Fathers' rights activists seek a gender-neutral approach in which unwed men and women would have equal rights in adoption issues, an approach that critics state does not sufficiently acknowledge the different biological roles in procreation and pregnancy, and the disparity in society's social and economic structures. In the US, some states have passed laws to protect the rights of unwed fathers to custody. Courts have increasingly supported these rights, though judges often require evidence that the father has shown interest in, and given financial and emotional support to, the mother during pregnancy.\n\nSome fathers' rights advocates have sought the right to prevent women from having an abortion without the father's consent, on the basis that it is discriminatory for men not to have the ability to participate in a decision to terminate a pregnancy. This option is not supported by any laws in the United States. Fathers' rights advocates Jeffrey M. Leving and Glenn Sacks have stated that \"choice for men is a flawed solution.\" Advocates have also expressed the desire to have a \"financial abortion\" in which the option exists to sever all responsibility for child support for an unwanted child. Commenting on this, legal scholar Kim Buchanan states, \"The only way men's lack of a pregnancy opt-out can be framed as a gender injustice is to accept that men have a right to visit the consequences of unprotected sex (or contraceptive failure) exclusively on their female partners.\" However, some feminists, such as former president of the feminist organization National Organization for Women, attorney Karen DeCrow, have supported the \"financial abortion\" concept.\n\nPressure from father's rights groups, among others, have in several countries resulted in gender-neutral program(s) eligible for parental leave. While historically, maternity benefits were given to mothers based on the physical biology of childbirth, including the need to protect the health and financial well-being of the woman and child, parental leave benefits emphasize gender-neutral child-rearing, the benefits of the participation of fathers in children's care, and redress discrimination against men who wish to be involved with their infants.\n\nSome fathers' rights activists object to the term \"visitation\", which they see as denigrating to their level of authority as parents, and instead prefer the use of \"parenting time\".\n\nSome legal scholars and feminist writers have accused the fathers' rights movement of putting the interests of fathers above the interests of children, for example, by suggesting that it is acceptable for fathers to withdraw child support if they are not given access to their children, or by lobbying for changes in family law that would allegedly heighten children's exposure to abusive fathers, and would allegedly further endanger mothers who are victims of domestic violence.\n\nAnother criticism is that father's rights activists allegedly incorrectly maintain that the courts are biased against fathers, while in reality the vast majority of cases are settled by private agreement and fathers voluntarily relinquish primary custody of their children, which explains the lower percentage of custodial fathers; and that the \"bias\" of courts is in favour of the primary caregiver, not mothers per se.\n\nResearchers Martha Fineman, Michael Flood, and others have criticized the movement for allegedly perpetuating negative stereotypes of women as deceptive, vindictive, and irresponsible, as well as the stereotype that women are out to take advantage of men financially.\n\nPublic supporters of the fathers' rights movement and their issues include Live Aid founder Bob Geldof, Irish writer and journalist John Waters and Karen DeCrow, former president of the National Organization for Women. Other notable commentators include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37509268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37509268", "title": "Florida v. Harris", "text": "Florida v. Harris\n\nFlorida v. Harris, 568 U.S. 237 (2013), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court addressed the reliability of a dog sniff by a detection dog trained to identify narcotics, under the specific context of whether law enforcement's assertions that the dog is trained or certified is sufficient to establish probable cause for a search of a vehicle under the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. \"Harris\" was the first Supreme Court case to challenge the dog's reliability, backed by data that asserts that on average, up to 80% of a dog's alerts are wrong. Twenty-four U.S. States, the federal government, and two U.S. territories filed briefs in support of Florida as amici curiae.\nOral argument in this case – and that of another dog sniff case, \"Florida v. Jardines\" – was heard on October 31, 2012. The Court unanimously held that if a bona fide organization has certified a dog after testing his reliability in a controlled setting, or if the dog has recently and successfully completed a training program that evaluated his proficiency, a court can presume (subject to any conflicting evidence offered) that the dog's alert provides probable cause to search, using a \"totality-of-the-circumstances\" approach.\n\nPrior to this case, the United States Supreme Court has on three occasions dealt with cases involving \"dog sniffs\" by detection dogs trained to identify narcotics, and has addressed whether or not a dog sniff constituted a \"search\" under the Fourth Amendment. In those three cases, the Supreme Court has held that:\n\nIndeed, the question of whether or not a canine sniff is a \"search\" was not at issue in this case. One passage from \"Caballes\" does, however, foretell the issue in the instant case:\nThis case addressed whether that dog's alert alone is sufficient to establish probable cause for a search, or whether law enforcement must first establish the reliability of such an alert.\n\nOn June 24, 2006, a Liberty County, Florida Sheriff's Canine Officer Wheetley and his drug-detection dog, Aldo, were on patrol. The officer conducted a traffic stop of defendant Clayton Harris's truck because his tag had expired. Approaching the truck, the officer noticed that the defendant was shaking, breathing fast, and appeared agitated – he also noticed an open beer container in the vehicle's cup holder. When the defendant refused consent to search the truck, the officer deployed Aldo to walk around the truck. As he performed a \"free air sniff\" of the truck's exterior, the dog alerted his handler to the driver's side door handle.\n\nThe officer then searched the vehicle, and found over 200 pseudoephedrine pills in a plastic bag under the driver's seat. On the passenger's side, the officer found boxes containing a total of 8000 matches. Harris was then placed under arrest, and a further search uncovered muriatic acid, antifreeze/water remover, a foam plate inside a latex glove, and a coffee filter with iodine crystals. The officer testified that these chemicals are precursors of methamphetamine. After being read his Miranda rights, Harris stated that he had been \"cooking meth\" for about one year, and had most recently cooked it at his home two weeks prior. As no methamphetamine was found in the vehicle, the State charged Harris with possession of the listed chemical pseudoephedrine with intent to use it to manufacture methamphetamine.\n\nAbout two months after the June 24 stop, Harris was again stopped by the same officer for another traffic infraction. During that stop, the officer again deployed Aldo – who once again alerted to the driver's side door handle. The officer again searched the vehicle, and found no illegal substances, save for an open bottle of alcoholic beverage.\n\nThe trial court denied Harris's motion to suppress the evidence produced by the search, and instead found that there was probable cause to support the search. The decision of the Florida First District Court of Appeal (DCA), in a per curiam decision, affirmed the trial court's ruling. The First District, without elaboration, cited \"State v. Laveroni\" (2005) and \"State v. Coleman\" (2005) as authority in support of affirming the trial court.\n\nHarris sought review by the Supreme Court of Florida, based on contradictory appellate rulings from other districts, namely \"Gibson v. State\" (2007) and \"Matheson v. State\" (2003).\n\nIn his challenge, Harris pointed out that on each of the two occasions in which his vehicle was searched, the dog alerted his handler to contraband which was not present in the vehicle.\n\nThe police officer testified that on the date of Harris's arrest, he had been on the force for three years, and had been a canine handler for two. Aldo completed a 120-hour drug detection training course two years earlier with his handler at the time, and was certified by an independent company that certifies K-9s. Aldo is trained and certified to detect cannabis, cocaine, ecstasy, heroin, and methamphetamine – he is not trained to detect alcohol or pseudoephedrine. Although pseudoephedrine is a precursor to methamphetamine, there was no testimony as to whether a dog trained to detect methamphetamine would also detect pseudoephedrine.\n\nOfficer Wheetley and Aldo were partnered for a year before the Harris stop, and they completed an annual forty-hour training seminar four months prior to that stop. In addition, the officer spends four hours per week training Aldo in detecting drugs in vehicles, buildings, and warehouses. For example, the officer testified, he may take Aldo to a wrecker yard and plant drugs in six to eight out of ten vehicles. Aldo must alert the handler to the vehicles with drugs, and he is rewarded when he does so. Aldo's rate of success during these sessions was described as \"really good\". The dog's training records, which the officer began keeping six months prior to Harris's stop, showed that on a dual grade of \"satisfactory\" or \"unsatisfactory\", Aldo performed \"satisfactory\" 100% of the time. The officer did not track false positives, nor did he explain whether any false positive alerts by Aldo would affect his \"satisfactory\" performance rating.\n\nIn Florida, a single-purpose dog like Aldo, such as one trained only to detect drugs, is not required by law to carry certification. In contrast, a dual-purpose dog, such as one trained in both apprehension and drug detection, must carry Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) certification.\n\nAs for Aldo's performance in the field, the Florida Supreme Court noted that:\nAs a result, the Florida Supreme Court reversed, saying:\nAdditionally, the Florida Supreme Court cited one commentator's description of the \"'mythic infallibility' of the dog's nose\":\nThe State of Florida petitioned the United States Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari, which was granted on March 26, 2012.\n\n\"Harris\" raises the following issues:\n\n\nBriefs of \"amicus curiae\" were filed in support of the petitioner by:\n\nBriefs of amicus curiae were filed in support of the respondent by:\n\nOral argument was heard on October 31, 2012. This case was heard on the same day as that of another dog sniff case, \"Florida v. Jardines\". That case addresses whether a dog sniff at the front door of a house is a Fourth Amendment search requiring probable cause and a search warrant, or whether it is an acceptable minimally invasive warrantless search.\nIn \"Harris\", one of the major points raised by a number of the \"amici curiae\" is that a dog's training or certification does not necessarily reflect that dog's reliability in the field. They point to what they say are \"the most comprehensive data available on the rate of false alerts in real-world settings\" – several years' of studies undertaken by an independent government agency in Sydney, Australia, under the Police Powers (Drug Detection Dogs) Act 2001. Police dogs went through an initial 6 weeks of training to detect cannabis, ecstasy, methamphetamine, cocaine and heroin, received additional training weekly, and were tested and re-certified every three months. The police dogs would randomly sniff individuals at train stations, licensed premises, on streets and sidewalks, at nightclub strips, shopping centers, concerts, and other public locations – the dog would sit next to a person if it alerted. In the first 9 months of 2011, dogs alerted (and police searched) 14,102 times, and drugs were found only 2,854 times—a false alert rate of 80%. Those results, they say, are surprisingly consistent – in 2010, the false alert rate was 74%. Further still, the study found that individual dog's performance varied wildly, with accuracy rates ranging from a high of 56% to a low of 7%, with two-thirds of the dogs performing below the average. The New South Wales' Ombudsman summarized his report by saying:\nProsecutors, on the other hand, say that does not prove anything. They point to \"residual odors\", meaning that the individuals may have in fact been in contact with drugs earlier and the drugs were no longer present, or the drugs may have been extremely well-hidden. In a reply brief, P.J. Bondi, Attorney General of Florida, wrote:\nThe United States Supreme Court returned a unanimous decision on February 19, 2013, ruling against Harris and overturning the ruling of the Florida Supreme Court. In the unanimous opinion, Justice Elena Kagan stated that the dog's certification and continued training are adequate indication of his reliability, and thus is sufficient to presume the dog's alert provides probable cause to search, using the \"totality-of-the-circumstances\" test per \"Illinois v. Gates\". She wrote that the Florida Supreme Court instead established \"a strict evidentiary checklist\", where \"an alert cannot establish probable cause ... unless the State introduces comprehensive documentation of the dog’s prior 'hits' and 'misses' in the field ... No matter how much other proof the State offers of the dog’s reliability, the absent field performance records will preclude a finding of probable cause.\"\n\nThe Court did not, however, rule out the questioning of reliability where specific grounds are present. Kagan also stated that \"a defendant must have an opportunity to challenge such evidence of a dog’s reliability, whether by cross-examining the testifying officer or by introducing his own fact or expert witnesses. The defendant may contest training or testing standards as flawed, or too lax, or raise an issue regarding the particular alert.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39216406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39216406", "title": "Girls Lean Back Everywhere", "text": "Girls Lean Back Everywhere\n\nGirls Lean Back Everywhere: The Law of Obscenity and the Assault on Genius by Edward de Grazia is a 1992 book chronicling the history of literary censorship in the United States and elsewhere.\n\nThe book details the history of struggles against literary censorship, particularly in the United Kingdom and the United States of America. As the narrative develops, it turns increasingly to US First Amendment law. It tells the stories of various censorship struggles and cases throughout the twentieth century. The book is dedicated to Justice William Brennan.\n\nThe title comes from Jane Heap, discussed in chapter one, which is based on the biographical writings of Heap and Margaret Anderson. Heap and Anderson were American feminists and publishers, who in 1918 published the \"Nausicaa\" episode of James Joyce's \"Ulysses\" in their magazine, \"The Little Review\". Their effort to publish the work was censored as the result of a criminal prosecution instigated by John S. Sumner, Secretary of the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice. In response to Sumner, Heap wrote of James Joyce: Mr. Joyce was not teaching early Egyptian perversions nor inventing new ones. Girls lean back everywhere, showing lace and silk stockings; wear low-cut sleeveless blouses, breathless bathing suits; men think thoughts and have emotions about these things everywhere—seldom as delicately and imaginatively as Mr. Bloom (in the \"Nausicaa\" episode)--and no one is corrupted.\n\nOther chapters tell the stories of numerous publishers, authors, and works, including Radclyffe Hall's \"The Well of Loneliness; D. H. Lawrence's \"Lady Chatterley's Lover'; \"Lolita\" by Vladimir Nabokov; Theodore Dreiser and Émile Zola; and comedian Lenny Bruce, as well as of censor boards and organizations, such as the Boston Watch and Ward Society, the National Vigilance Association, and the Cincinnati Citizens for Community Values. The final chapter covers censorship in the 1980s of photographers Andres Serrano, Robert Mapplethorpe, and Jock Sturge; musicians 2 Live Crew; and performance artists Karen Finley and Holly Hughes.\n\nThe book is organized in the form of a court transcript, effectively \"put[ting] the arts vigilantes on trial.\"\n\nThe first two chapters of the book were published serially in the \"Cardozo Arts & Entertainment Law Journal\".\n\nThe book has been described as \"monumental\", \"authoritative\", and \"inspired\", although sometimes \"bloat[ed] ... with facts irrelevant to censorship.\" \"Publishers Weekly\" described the book as a \"remarkable tour de force of literary/legal sleuthing\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170123", "title": "Great ape personhood", "text": "Great ape personhood\n\nGreat ape personhood is a movement to extend personhood and some legal protections to the non-human members of the Hominidae or great ape family: chimpanzees, bonobos, gorillas, and orangutans.\n\nAdvocates include primatologists Jane Goodall and Dawn Prince-Hughes, evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins, philosophers Paola Cavalieri and Peter Singer, and legal scholar Steven Wise.\n\nOn February 28, 2007, the parliament of the Balearic Islands, an autonomous community of Spain, passed the world's first legislation that would effectively grant legal personhood rights to all great apes. The act sent ripples out of the region and across Spain, producing public support for the rights of great apes. On June 25, 2008 a parliamentary committee set forth resolutions urging Spain to grant the primates the rights to life and liberty. If approved \"it will ban harmful experiments on apes and make keeping them for circuses, television commercials, or filming illegal under Spain's penal code.\"\n\nThese precedents followed years of European legal efforts. In 1992, Switzerland amended its constitution to recognize animals as \"beings\" and not \"things\". However, in 1999 the Swiss constitution was completely rewritten. A decade later, Germany guaranteed rights to animals in a 2002 amendment to its constitution, becoming the first European Union member to do so.\n\nNew Zealand granted strong protections to five great ape species in 1999. Their use is now forbidden in research, testing, or teaching. Some argue that New Zealand's protections amount to a form of weak legal rights.\n\nSeveral European countries (including Austria, the Netherlands and Sweden) completely banned the use of great apes in animal testings.\n\nArgentina granted a captive orangutan basic human rights, starting from late 2014.\n\nOn April 20, 2015, Justice Barbara Jaffe of New York State Supreme Court ordered a writ of habeas corpus to two captive chimpanzees. On April 21, the ruling was amended to strike the words \"writ of habeas corpus\".\n\nWell-known advocates include primatologist Jane Goodall, who was appointed a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations to fight the bushmeat trade and end ape extinction; Richard Dawkins, former Professor for the Public Understanding of Science at Oxford University; Peter Singer, professor of philosophy at Princeton University; and attorney and former Harvard professor Steven Wise, founder and president of the Nonhuman Rights Project (NhRP), whose aim is to work through U.S. common law on a state-by-state basis to achieve recognition of legal personhood for great apes and other self-aware, autonomous nonhuman animals; all advocate for great ape personhood.\n\nIn December 2013, the NhRP filed three lawsuits on behalf of four chimpanzees being held in captivity in New York State, arguing that they should be recognized as legal persons with the fundamental right to bodily liberty (i.e. not to be held in captivity) and that they are entitled to common law writs of habeas corpus and should be immediately freed and moved to sanctuaries. All three petitions for writs of habeas corpus were denied, allowing for the right to appeal. The NhRP is in the process of appealing all three decisions.\n\nGoodall's longitudinal studies revealed the social and family life of chimps to be very similar to that of human beings in some respects. She herself calls them individuals, and says they relate to her as an individual member of the clan. Laboratory studies of ape language ability began to reveal other human traits, as did genetics, and eventually three of the great apes were reclassified as hominids.\n\nOther studies, such as one done by Beran & Evans, indicate other qualities that humans share with non-human primates, namely the ability to self-control. In order for chimpanzees to control their impulsivity, they use self-distraction techniques similar to those that are used by children. Great apes also exhibited ability to plan as well as project \"oneself into the future\", known as the process of mental time travel. Such complicated tasks require self-awareness, which great apes appear to possess: \"the capacity that contribute to the ability to delay gratification, since a self-aware individual may be able to imagine future states of the self\".\n\nThis, alongside the increasing risk of great ape extinction, had led the animal rights movement to put pressure on nations to recognize apes as having limited rights and being legal \"persons.\" In response, the United Kingdom introduced a ban on research using great apes, although testing on other primates has not been limited.\n\nWriter and lecturer Thomas Rose makes the argument that granting legal rights afforded to humans to non-humans is nothing new. He points out that in the majority of the world, \"corporations are recognized as legal persons and are granted many of the same rights humans enjoy, the right to sue, to vote and to freedom of speech.\" Dawn Prince-Hughes has written that great apes meet the commonly accepted standards for personhood: \"self-awareness; comprehension of past, present, and future; the ability to understand complex rules and their consequences on emotional levels; the ability to choose to risk those consequences, a capacity for empathy, and the ability to think abstractly.\"\n\nGary Francione questions the concept of granting personhood on the basis of whether the animal in question is human-like (as some have argued for great apes), and clarifies that sentience is the sole characteristic an animal requires to have basic rights. Therefore, he asserts, other animals—including mice and rats—should also be granted such rights.\n\nDepending on the precise wording of any proposed or adopted declaration, personhood for the Great Apes may raise questions concerning protections and obligations under national and international laws, such as:\n"}
{"id": "27062467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27062467", "title": "Indonesian nationality law", "text": "Indonesian nationality law\n\nThe Indonesian nationality law is a law regulating about who an Indonesian citizen is, the requirements and how to obtain Indonesian citizenship, the loss of Indonesian citizenship, the requirements and how to re-obtain Indonesian citizenship, and the penal provision. The nationality law is stated in Constitution of Indonesia.\n\nThe Indonesian nationality law is based on jus sanguinis and jus soli. The latest law regulating Indonesian nationality is Law No. 12/2006 (UU No. 12 Tahun 2006). This law revokes Law No. 62/1958 (UU No. 62 Tahun 1958).\n\nGenerally, Indonesian citizens are those natural Indonesian people and those of other nationalities that are endorsed by the law as Indonesian citizens. The Indonesian nationality law does not recognize dual citizenship except for persons under the age of 18 (single citizenship principle). After reaching 18 years of age individuals must choose one citizenship (limited double citizenship principle).\n\nAn Indonesian citizen is:\n\nA foreign citizen can apply to become an Indonesian citizen with the following requirements:\n\nAny application for citizenship is granted by the President of Indonesia.\n\nThis could happen if:\n\nIn 2018, Indonesian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 70 countries and territories, ranking the Indonesian passport 69th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6260569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6260569", "title": "Innocence commissions", "text": "Innocence commissions\n\nAn innocence commission is a legal commission set up by a government for post-conviction review of cases, to try to ensure that wrongful convictions do not stand and that no innocent person is executed. \n\nIn November 2002 Chief Justice I. Beverly Lake Jr. of the North Carolina State Supreme Court established the Criminal Justice Study Commission following several highly publicized exoneration cases in the state. It reviewed police and prosecution procedures for factors that contributed to wrongful convictions. The group recommended reforms, including changes to the procedure for gaining eyewitness testimony. This resulted in a change to state law. \n\nAs a result of recommendations of the Justice Study, in 2006 the North Carolina legislature passed a bill to establish a state independent Innocence Inquiry Commission, signed into law by Governor Mike Easley. It was the first U.S. state to do so. The Innocence Commission was developed to review credible post-conviction cases in which the defendants and their advocates claim wrongful conviction; it started operating in 2007 and has exonerated 10 people as of March 2017. \n\nThe commission was authorized after some high-profile convictions were overturned. These cases had generated considerable controversy and the exonerations were damaging to even before their convictions were overturned. \n\nThe states of Pennsylvania, California, Connecticut, Wisconsin, and Illinois have since created similar innocence commissions.\n\nThe law is modeled after one that established the Innocence Network of the United Kingdom. .\n\nDefense attorneys apply to the commission to have their clients cases reviewed. The eight-member commission selects which cases to review. Its recommendations are reviewed by a three-judge panel.\n\nThe eight Commission members are appointed by the chief justice of the state Supreme Court and chief judge of the state Court of Appeals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24758819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24758819", "title": "Iranian nationality law", "text": "Iranian nationality law\n\nIranian nationality law contains principles of both \"jus sanguinis\" and \"jus soli\". Children acquire nationality of Iran through their fathers, but not their mothers. The full nationality law is defined in Book 2 of the Civil Code of Iran, Articles 976 through 991.\n\nArticle 976 of the Civil Code of Iran defines who is an Iranian national:\n\n\nAccording to Article 979 of the Civil Code of Iran, people can obtain Iranian nationality under following conditions:\n\n\nApplicants also have to proof employment which ensures livelihood.\n\nMultiple citizenship\nIn practice, the Iranian government considers dual citizens as Iranian citizens \"only\". Nevertheless, article 977 of the Civil Code of Iran deals with multiple citizenship. As a consequence of Paragraphs 4 or 5 of Article 976, some Iranian minors may have multiple citizenship. If they wish to retain the non-Iranian nationality after age 18, they have to inform Iran's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nIn 2016, Iranian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 37 countries and territories, ranking the Iranian passport 98th in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12280293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12280293", "title": "Law practice management software", "text": "Law practice management software\n\nLaw practice management software is software designed to manage a law firm's case and client records, billing and bookkeeping, schedules and appointments, deadlines, computer files and to facilitate any compliance requirements such as with document retention policies, courts' electronic filing systems and, in the UK, the Solicitors' Accounts Rules as defined by the Solicitors Regulation Authority.\n\nBecause law schools do not generally teach new attorneys the business skills to run a law office, many offices have turned to technology to ease the learning curve and reduce clerical errors. The American Bar Association (ABA) has found that calendar and deadline related mistakes account for most legal malpractice claims. Therefore, an initial investment in software tools can yield long term savings in defending against such claims. In fact, the ABA has an entire section devoted entirely to law office management, of which software and related programs are an increasingly important part of its mission delivery. Many state bar associations also provide assistance and discounts to their members for such software. The main purpose of these programs is to allow a law firm to run more smoothly.\n\nCase Management Software, used properly, improves efficiency, provides for conflict checking, and enables a law office to not have to search for the physical file each time a client calls with questions, thereby helping to reduce the need for callbacks since the client can get answers on an as needed basis at the time of their inquiry. \n\nLegal law office management is a growing business in North America and the United Kingdom due to the highly competitive market to gain customers. In the UK, the Legal Software Suppliers Association (LSSA) is the industry body for legal software systems developers and vendors. Representing a selection of UK suppliers and chaired by the chairman of one of the suppliers, it claims that it sets and maintains professional standards within the industry and manage areas of mutual interest between lawyers and software providers – such as the Land Registry, LSC, Law Society & other legislative bodies.\n\nSoftware applications have become increasingly important in modern law practice. Picking the best software for a law office depends on many variables. Attorneys/Solicitors often buy their software based on their practice area. The New Jersey State Bar Association web site lists a variety of applications by substantive law (Bankruptcy, Collections, Estate planning and administration, and Real estate) as well as by practice matter (Calendar/Schedule/Docket Control, Case & Practice Management, Document Assembly, and Document Management).\n\nRegardless of the type of law practiced, practice management software (a form of Customer relationship management software) is among the most important. Features of practice management software include:\n\nOther software systems that are useful for law firms include: Password security, Disk encryption, Mindmapping, desktop notes, word processing, and email management. Some firms use modified versions of Open source software.\n\nMost law firms also subscribe to a Computer-assisted legal research database for Legal research. Such databases provide Case law from case reporters, and often other legal resources. The two largest legal databases are Westlaw (part of West, which is owned by Thomson Reuters) and LexisNexis, but other databases also exist, including the free Google Scholar, and the newer Bloomberg Law, as well as Loislaw (operated by Wolters Kluwer) and several smaller databases.Some bar associations and lawyers' organizations have their own software.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58487248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58487248", "title": "Legal Assistance Centre", "text": "Legal Assistance Centre\n\nThe Legal Assistance Centre is a human rights organization in Windhoek, Namibia . The organization was established in 1988 during the apartheid era to litigate on behalf of people who were oppressed by the government and continues to operate today. \n\nAccording to the newspaper \"The Namibian\", the lawyers and paralegals who opened the centre \"were immediately flooded with cases from people complaining about human rights abuses\" and hundreds of court cases were launched against the apartheid South African government .\n\nThe centre continues to conduct public interest litigation and expanded its mandate to incorporate public human rights education, research, law reform and free legal advice. Its work is guided by a board of directors. \n\nSince Namibia's independence, the organization's areas of focus have included:\n\n\nThe history of the Legal Assistance Centre is embedded in Namibia's struggle to end South Africa's apartheid occupation and brutal rule of the country. In the 1980s, the South West African People's Organization (SWAPO) was making progress in their fight for an independent state. However, human right violations and the use of apartheid era law continued to justify inhumane, degrading and discriminatory practices.\n\nOn the legal front, a young lawyer named Dave Smuts began taking on public interest cases against the apartheid government. In 1987, Smuts worked with churches in northern Namibia to successfully challenge the detainment of a group who had been held in prison without trial for several years. They were successful and together Smuts and church leaders began helping people obtain legal aid and spread information about laws.\n\nIn July 1988, the Legal Assistance Centre was officially opened in Ongwediva in northern Namibia by Smuts and a group of lawyers and paralegals. The Legal Assistance Centre's founding was based on the principle of taking public interest legal cases to court and providing free services to clients. Additional offices were set up in Windhoek, Tsumeb, Walvis Bay and Rundu.\n\nNearly 500 cases were handled by the organization in its first hear of operation, the vast majority involving human rights abuses (assault, rape, detention) perpetrated by security forces. Labour cases (unfair dismiasal, non payment of wages, workmen's compensation claims) were also brought to court in the Centre's first year.\n"}
{"id": "39537339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39537339", "title": "List of treaties by number of parties", "text": "List of treaties by number of parties\n\nThis article contains a list of treaties by number of parties to the treaty. A \"party\" to a treaty is a state or other entity that ratifies, accedes to, approves, or succeeds to the treaty.\n\nIn general, multilateral treaties are open to ratification by any state. Some treaties may also be ratified by supranational bodies, such as the European Union, and by other international organizations.\n\nIn practice, the depositary of a treaty will usually only recognise ratifications of the treaty that are performed by a state that is recognised as a state at international law. A state can be formally recognised as such by becoming a member of the United Nations; there are currently member states of the United Nations. The only non-UN states that undoubtedly meet the standard of statehood are the Cook Islands and Niue, who have had their \"full treaty-making capacity\" recognised by the United Nations Secretariat. The Holy See—while not a state per se but an entity closely tied to the state of Vatican City—is also widely recognised as being able to legitimately ratify treaties and has been granted non-member observer state status by the UN General Assembly. Following the UNGA passing a resolution granting non-member observer state status to the State of Palestine, the UNSG has begun to recognize its right to ratify treaties. Ratifications performed by other states with more limited recognition—such as the Republic of China (Taiwan); Kosovo; Northern Cyprus; Somaliland; the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic (Western Sahara); South Ossetia; Abkhazia; Transnistria; and Nagorno-Karabakh—have usually not been recognised by treaty depositaries as states that can ratify treaties, although there are some exceptions to this general rule.\n\nIf a state party to a treaty \"denounces\" the treaty, the state (often after a certain period before the denunciation takes effect) is no longer a party to the treaty, although in some cases certain parts of the treaty may continue to apply.\n\nStates change over time, and often a state that ratified a treaty will cease to exist. International law deals with this issue in two ways. First, it is possible for a state to be declared the \"successor\" state to the defunct state. In this situation, any ratifications performed by the defunct state are transferred to and attributed to the successor state. Examples of successor states are the Russian Federation (successor to the Soviet Union), Serbia (successor to Serbia and Montenegro), Belarus (successor to the Byelorussian SSR), Ukraine (successor to the Ukrainian SSR), and Tanzania (successor to Tanganyika). It is possible for a single state to be the successor state of multiple states, as with Yemen being the successor state of both North Yemen and South Yemen.\n\nSecond, some states have no legal successor state but cease to exist; in such cases, the ratifications performed by the state are disregarded. In some cases, such states are subsumed into an existing state, as when East Germany became part of the Federal Republic of Germany. In other cases, the defunct state is divided into two or more states, with none of the states being designated as the formal successor state. Examples of the latter situation include SFR Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia. In this situation, the new states usually declare which treaties the defunct state ratified continue to have force for the new state. Such a declaration is regarded as a \"ratification\" by the new state.\n\nFor purposes of the numbers in this list, only ratifications, accessions, or successions of currently existing states are considered. No regard is given to ratifications by defunct states that have no current successor state.\n\nDue to these limitations, in 2016, the maximum number of state ratifications that a multilateral treaty can have is usually going to be 197; this total consists of all 193 UN member states; both UN observers, the Holy See and State of Palestine; and the Cook Islands and Niue. If supranational or other international organizations ratify the treaty, the total number of ratifications may exceed 197.\n\nWhen a treaty is ratified by nearly all recognised states in the world, the legal principles contained in the treaty may become customary international law. Customary international law applies to \"all\" states, whether or not the state has ratified a treaty that enshrines the principle. There is no set number of ratifications that are required to convert a treaty's principles into customary international law, and states and experts often disagree on what principles have and have not attained the status.\n\nBelow is the list of treaties by number of parties. Only treaties with a minimum of 170 parties are included.\n"}
{"id": "17323312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17323312", "title": "Massachusetts Public Records Law", "text": "Massachusetts Public Records Law\n\nMassachusetts Public Records Law is a law in Massachusetts detailing what kinds of documents are actually public records. It is a state law that is similar to the federal Freedom of Information Act, which was passed by Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966. According to the \"Boston Globe\" newspaper in 2016, \"Massachusetts is currently the one state in the country where the Legislature, judiciary, and governor’s office all claim to be completely exempt from the [public records] law.\"\n\nThe government and other agencies are required under the Public Records Act to disclose records and documents upon request. There are exemptions to Public Records Act that the government can use to keep certain records private. \nThe Massachusetts Public Records Law parallels FOIA. All records including photographs, memos, books, papers, maps, recorded tapes, financial statements, statistical tabulations, or other documentary materials or data are considered public information in Massachusetts, unless they are withheld from public view under one of the sixteen exemptions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57865367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57865367", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Equatorial Guinea)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Equatorial Guinea)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Worship and Penitentiary Institutions of Equatorial Guinea handles responsibilities such as overseeing the country's bar association, creating judicial rules and procedures, and investigating human rights issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55472974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55472974", "title": "Muhammad ibn Isa", "text": "Muhammad ibn Isa\n\nMuhammad ibn Isa was a Khurasani warrior who came to Aleppo some time around the spring of 967 with around 5,000 soldiers in order to engage in a \"jihad against the Byzantine Empire. While the Byzantine emperor, Nikephoros II Phokas, was campaigning against the Bulgarians in the west, Isa managed to secure a victory against the Byzantines and advanced into Cilicia. Nikephoros sent Petros to challenge Isa, where he defeated him around Alexandretta in 968. Petros then ransomed Isa to the people of Antioch in exchange for Byzantine prisoners of war.\n\n"}
{"id": "32219937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32219937", "title": "New York Farm Winery Act of 1976", "text": "New York Farm Winery Act of 1976\n\nThe New York Farm Winery Act of 1976 is a law that allows grape growers in New York to establish wineries and sell directly to the public, subject to a maximum of annually.\n\nIn the early 1970s, John Miller, of Benmarl Winery, and John Dyson, commissioner of agriculture, put together a plan to help revitalize the New York wine industry, which was foundering at the time. Governor Hugh Carey signed the plan into law in 1976. The law allowed small grower-producers to sell directly to consumers, as well as reducing certain fees and providing tax and marketing advantages. Originally, the law required farm wineries to sell only estate-grown wines, but it was amended in 1978 to allow the use of any New York-grown grapes in wine sold at a farm winery.\n"}
{"id": "8260850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8260850", "title": "Notary public (Pennsylvania)", "text": "Notary public (Pennsylvania)\n\nA notary public in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is empowered to perform six distinct official acts: taking an acknowledgment; administering an oath or affirmation; taking a verification on oath or acknowledgment; witnessing or attesting a signature; certifying or attesting a copy or deposition; and noting a protest of a negotiable instrument. A notary is strictly prohibited from giving legal advice or drafting legal documents such as contracts, mortgages, leases, wills, powers of attorney, liens or bonds.\n\nAccording to the Pennsylvania Association of Notaries, there are more than 84,000 notaries in the state; 247 of them also have been approved by the Secretary of the Commonwealth to notarize electronically.\n\nAlthough the notarial office is unique, other officers of the Commonwealth are authorized to act as notaries in some respects. For example, the Secretary and clerks of courts may issue certifications, election officers may administer oaths, and law enforcement officers may take affidavits.\n\nUntil July 1, 2003, the Commonwealth required notaries to be residents of the state; non-residents were appointed Commissioners of Deeds, an essentially identical position. Now, anyone with a regular office located in Pennsylvania can be appointed a Notary; there will be no further Commissioners of Deeds appointed.\n\nPennsylvania notaries are governed by Title 57 of the Pennsylvania Statutes, known as the Notary Public Law. Act 151 of 2002 amended Title 57, bringing about the most significant changes to the Notary Public Law in 50 years. In effect since July 1, 2003, these changes include required education for notaries, specific signer identification procedures, eligibility of nonresidents to hold notarial commission, embossing seal no longer required on notarized documents, and authorization for electronic notarization. As a result of the repeal of the embosser requirement the wording \"Commonwealth of Pennsylvania\" is recommended to be clearly written or typed along the top border of the Notary Public's notarial seal.\n\nThe first law to govern American notaries in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania was enacted in 1791. Isaac Craig, a glassmaker in Pittsburgh, was the first notary to be appointed under the new, independent state constitution. Governor Charles Mifflin, the first constitutionally elected governor, appointed Craig, with whom he had served in the Revolutionary War.\n\nHowever, as early as 1727, British-appointed notaries sympathetic to the call for American independence began administering \"Oaths of Allegiance to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,\" in which individuals renounced loyalty to Britain. These oaths were documents signed by groups of individuals, in the style of a petition, or were personally written or distributed in a pre-printed form that could be signed, witnessed and sealed. In response to increasing numbers of foreigners arriving in the British colonies, King George II ordered the administration of \"Oaths of Fidelity\" and \"Oaths of Abjuration\" in 1729; the first oath disavowed ties to any monarch other than the British Crown, and the second abjured, or renounced, any connection to the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nThroughout the 17th and 18th century—both before and after the Revolutionary War—notaries and their traveling counterparts, commissioners of deeds, played vital roles in documenting the formation of the country. They performed the notarial acts necessitated by owning property and titling land, electing governmental leaders, and building the economy. The 19th and 20th century saw the numbers of commissioned notaries increase dramatically to meet the needs of developing business and commerce and a related increase in the number of lawsuits.\n\nThe Pennsylvania State Archives has preserved examples of the work of notaries throughout the last three centuries in the state. The oldest of these documents involve land records, including the 1681 Land Charter, which transferred ownership of the land that became Pennsylvania from King Charles II of England to William Penn. Subsequently, Penn purchased some of the land in parcels from the natives who occupied it and who Penn considered the rightful owners. Many deeds for so-called Indian lands were drawn up, acknowledged before notaries, and publicly recorded. The State Archives also preserves what is probably the state's earliest recorded fraudulent land transfers. The 1737 Walking Purchase is an instrument by which Penn's sons sold Indian land that their father had not purchased to a European land speculator. This illegal agreement deprived the Delaware Indians of the entire upper Delaware and Lehigh River valleys.\n\n"}
{"id": "1966466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1966466", "title": "Original intent", "text": "Original intent\n\nOriginal intent is a theory in law concerning constitutional and statutory interpretation. It is frequently used as a synonym for originalism; while original intent is indeed one theory in the originalist family, it has some salient differences which has led originalists from more predominant schools of thought such as original meaning to distinguish original intent as much as legal realists do.\n\nOriginal intent maintains that in interpreting a text, a court should determine what the authors of the text were trying to achieve, and to give effect to what they \"intended\" the statute to accomplish, the actual \"text\" of the legislation notwithstanding. As in purposivism, tools such as legislative history are often used.\n\nDespite the potential confusion of terms between the original Intent and originalism, other schools of Originalist thought have been as critical of original intent as non-Originalists.\n\n\nIn Canada, the predominant school of thought for legal interpretation is the living tree doctrine, under which interpretations can evolve along with the society, to deal with new conditions that were different or did not exist when the Constitution was framed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "665986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665986", "title": "Parental leave", "text": "Parental leave\n\nParental leave or family leave is an employee benefit available in almost all countries. The term \"parental leave\" generally includes maternity, paternity, and adoption leave. A distinction between \"maternity leave\" and \"parental leave\" is sometimes made- maternity leave as the mother's leave time directly before and after childbirth and parental leave being the time given to care for newborns. In some countries and jurisdictions, \"family leave\" also includes leave provided to care for ill family members. Often, the minimum benefits and eligibility requirements are stipulated by law.\n\nUnpaid parental or family leave is provided when an employer is required to hold an employee's job while that employee is taking leave. Paid parental or family leave provides paid time off work to care for or make arrangements for the welfare of a child or dependent family member. The three most common models of funding are social insurance/social security (where employees, employers, or taxpayers in general contribute to a specific public fund), employer liability (where the employer must pay the employee for the length of leave), and mixed policies that combine both social security and employer liability.\n\nParental leave has been available as a legal right and/or governmental program for many years, in one form or another. In 2014, the International Labour Organization reviewed parental leave policies in 185 countries and territories, and found that all countries except Papua New Guinea have laws mandating some form of parental leave. A different study showed that of 186 countries examined, 96% offered some pay to mothers during leave, but only 81 of those countries offered the same for fathers. The United States, Suriname, Papua New Guinea, and a few island countries in the Pacific Ocean are the only countries in the United Nations that do not require employers to provide paid time off for new parents.\n\nPrivate employers sometimes provide either or both unpaid and paid parental leave outside of or in addition to any legal mandate.\n\nJeremiah Carter and Martha Nussbaum have developed a political model known as the Capabilities approach, where basic freedoms and opportunities are included in economic assessments of a country's well-being, in addition to GDP. Nussbaum proposed 11 central capabilities as the minimum requirement for a decent society. In Nussbaum's model, states should provide the resources and freedoms to ensure people have the opportunity to achieve a minimum threshold of each central capability. Universal, paid parental leave is an example resource states can provide so people have the option of starting a family while also working; for instance, under capacity 10 (control of one's environment), the state has a responsibility to ensure all people have \"the right to seek employment on an equal basis with others.\"\n\nPaid parental leave incentivizes labor market attachment for women both before and after birth, affecting GDP and national productivity, as the workforce is larger. Parental leave increases income at the household level, as well, by supporting dual-earner families.\n\nPaid parental leave incentivizes childbirth, which affects the future workforce. It is thus argued that paid parental leave, in contrast to unpaid parental leave, is harmful to children's welfare because in countries with an aging workforce or countries with Sub-replacement fertility, children are born not because the parents want the child and can meet the child's needs but because children are expected to support their parents. Some see children as responsible for supporting all those in older generations in the society (not just the child's specific parents); their earnings are expected not to be saved for the children's own old age, but to be spent on the earlier generations' demand for social security and pensions for which there was inadequate savings.\n\nThe neoclassical model of labor markets predicts that if the cost of hiring women of child-bearing years is anticipated to increase (either because the employer is mandated to pay for maternity leave, or because she will be absent from work on public leave), then the \"demand\" for women in the labor market will decrease. While gender discrimination is illegal, without some kind of remedy, the neoclassical model would predict \"statistical discrimination\" against hiring women of child-bearing years.\n\nIf women take long parental leaves, the neoclassical model would predict that their lifetime earnings and opportunities for promotion will be less than their male or childfree counterparts, or the \"motherhood penalty.\" Women may seek out employment sectors that are \"family-friendly\" (i.e., with generous parental leave policies), resulting in occupational sex segregation. Nielsen, Simonsen, and Verner examine what the different outcomes for women in Denmark are between the \"family-friendly\" and the \"non-family-friendly\" sector. In Denmark, the public sector is \"family-friendly\" because of its generous leave and employee benefits; workers decide which sector to work on based on their preferences and\nopportunities. The study found that while in the \"family-friendly\" sector, there was basically no wage loss related to taking parental leave, women did have consistent earnings loss in the \"non-family-friendly\" private sector for a 1-year leave.\n\nUniversal, paid parental leave can be privately funded (i.e., corporations are mandated to absorb the cost of paid parental time off as part of employee benefits) or publicly funded (i.e., transferred directly to workers on leave, like unemployment insurance). Concerns about private funding include the statistical discrimination described above as well as the costs to smaller businesses. Datta Gupta, Smith, & Verneer found in 2008 that, while publicly funded parental leave has benefits, it is very expensive to fund and question if it is the most cost-effective use of funds.\n\nSocial norms have historically not included child care in the main responsibilities of fathers. However, in some, mainly western, countries, politicians, and social scientists argue for changing the role of the fathers, and the idea of the ‘new father’ has especially been shaped by the Nordic countries. The process enables fathers to rationalize their parenting style and align this with what characterizes good care. Even though the mother’s role as main parent has not changed, male parental leave is claimed by its supporters to transform the traditionally gendered father practices and to create a social morality in relation to partners and children. Some, however, consider that the allegedly positive effects of male parental leave are not supported by research, and warn that it might have negative effects. Norwegian psychology professor Leif Edward Ottesen Kennair believes the father's quota is indefensible from a psychological point of view, and argues that \"we must at the very least ask ourselves what the consequences will be when we make a childhood environment that differs from what our species has evolved into.\" He believes the father's quota is \"based on ideology, and only to an extremely limited extent on knowledge,\" arguing that it is \"a social experiment, the effects of which are unknown.\". Other psychological perspectives summarise evidence and find that the role of a father in child development is very similar to that of a mother, which conflicts with the idea that greater paternal involvement in childcare could lead to subtantial and potentially dangerous consequences. It also has to be considered that fathers from different classes see their roles alternatively during their paternity leave. Whereas middle class fathers consider themselves as suitable alternative to the mother having the same competencies, working class men see themselves more as supporters during their leave. In consequence middle class fathers mostly use their leave right after the mother returns to work, meanwhile working class fathers do their leave during the mother's leave.\n\nTypically, the effects of parental leave are improvements in prenatal and postnatal care, including a decrease in infant mortality. The effects of parental leave on the labor market include an increase in employment, changes in wages, and fluctuations in the rate of employees returning to work. Leave legislation can also impact fertility rates.\n\nA study in Germany found that wages decreased by 18 percent for every year an employee spends on parental leave. However, after the initial decrease in wages, the employee’s salary rebounds faster than the salary of someone not offered parental leave. A study of California’s leave policy, the first state in the U.S. to require employers to offer paid parental leave, showed that wages did increase.\n\nParental leave can lead to greater job security. Studies differ in how this helps return to work after taking time off. Some studies show that if a parent is gone for more than a year after the birth of a child, it decreases the possibility that he or she will return. Other studies of shorter leave periods show that parents no longer need to quit their jobs in order to care for their children, so employment return increases.\n\nIt does not appear that parental leave policies have had a significant effect on the gender wage gap, which has remained relatively steady since the late 1980s, despite increasing adoption of parental leave policies.\n\nIn the U.S., while the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 allows for unpaid parental leave, parents often do not utilize this eligibility to its fullest extent as it is unaffordable. As a result, some studies show that the FMLA has had a limited impact on how much leave new parents take. Though specific amounts can vary, having a child (including the cost of high-quality childcare) costs families approximately $11,000 in the first year. These high costs contribute to new mothers in the United States returning to work quicker than new mothers in European countries; approximately one-third of women in the United States return to work within three months of giving birth, compared to approximately five per cent in the UK, Germany, and Sweden, and just over half of mothers in the United States with a child under the age of one work.\n\nThere is some evidence that legislation for parental leave raises the likelihood of women returning to their previous jobs as opposed to finding a new job. This rise is thought to fall to between 10% and 17%. Simultaneously, there is a decrease in the percentage of women who find new jobs which falls between 6% and 11%. Thus, such legislation appears to increase how many women return to work post-childbirth by around 3% or 4%.\n\nAdditionally, it appears that parental leave policies do allow women to stay home longer before returning to work as the probability of returning to an old job falls in the second month after childbirth before dramatically rising in the third month. Although this legislation thus appears to have minimal effect on women choosing to take leave, it does appear to increase the time women take in leave.\n\nMaternity leave legislation could pose benefits or harm to employers. The main potential drawback of mandated leave is its potential to disrupt productive activities by raising rates of employee absenteeism. With mandated leave for a certain period of time and facing prolonged absence of the mothers in the workplace, firms will be faced with two options: hire a temp (which could involve training costs) or function with a missing employee. Alternatively, these policies could be positive for employers who previously did not offer leave because they were worried about attracting employees who were disproportionately likely to use maternity leave. Thus, there is potential for these policies to correct market failures. A drawback of rising leave at the societal level, however, is the resulting decrease in female labor supply. In countries with a high demand for labor, including many present-day countries with aging populations, a smaller labor supply is unfavorable.\n\nSomething important to note for all the research cited above is that the results typically depend on how leave coverage is defined, and whether the policies are for unpaid or paid leave. Policies guaranteeing paid-leave are considered by some to be dramatically more effective than unpaid-leave policies.\n\nFor women individually, long breaks in employment, as would come from parental leave, negatively affects their careers. Longer gaps are associated with reduced lifetime earnings and lower pension disbursements as well as worsened career prospects and reduced earnings. Due to these drawbacks, some countries, notably Norway, have expanded family policy initiatives to increase the father's quota and expand childcare in an effort to work towards greater gender equality.\n\nAccording to a 2016 study, the expansion of government-funded maternity leave in Norway from 18 to 35 weeks led mothers to spend more time at home without a reduction in family income.\n\nAlthough parental leave is increasingly granted to fathers, mothers continue to take the majority of guaranteed parental leave. When guaranteed leave is unpaid, research indicates that men's leave usage is unaffected. In Germany, where parental leave is guaranteed for both parents, the financial incentive, alone, was not enough to encourage fathers to take paternal leaves. While uncommon on a worldwide scale some countries do reserve parts of the paid leave for the father, meaning it can't be transferred to the mother and lapses unless he uses it. Among the earliest countries to actively push for increased usage of paternity leave are the Nordic welfare states, starting with Sweden making paternal leave gender neutral in 1974 and soon followed by Iceland, Denmark, Norway and Finland. These countries lack a unified concept of paternity leave, each imposing different conditions, ratios and timescales, but are regarded as among the most generous in the world.\n\nPartly in an initiative to combat the \"Motherhood penalty,\" Norway in 1993 initiated a policy change to incentivize paternal leave, the so-called \"father's quota\", and Sweden followed suit in 1995. This means a certain number of parental leave-days can only be used by the father, and are otherwise lost. In countries in which leave entitlements include a father's quota there has been a pronounced impact, with the quota being credited for increasing paternal involvement and challenging gender roles within the family, promoting a more equal division of labor. To evaluate this change, Rønsen & Kitterød looked at the rate and timing of women's return to work after giving birth, and the effect on this of the new parental leave policy. In their 2015 study, Rønsen & Kitterød found women in Norway returned to work significantly faster after the policy change. However, public or subsidized daycare was greatly expanded at the same time, so Rønsen & Kitterød did not find that the \"father's quota\" was solely responsible for the timing of work entry. But it can be understood to have an effect on division of household labor by gender when both parents can take time to care for a new baby.\n\nAnother impact from fathers taking more leaves is that in Norway, it has been shown to have the potential to either decrease or increase the time women take, depending on whether the mother's and father's childcare are seen as substitutes or complements. If substitute goods, mothers are able to return to work sooner as fathers take some of the childcare responsibility. As for the latter, longer leave for fathers can motivate mothers to also stay home.\n\nFathers tend to use less parental leave than mothers in the United States as well as in other countries where paid leave is available, and this difference may have factors other than the financial constraints which impact both parents. Bygren and Duvander, looking at the use of parental leave by fathers in Sweden, concluded that fathers’ workplace characteristics (including the size of the workplace, whether there were more men or women in the workplace, and whether the workplace was part of the private or public sector) influenced the length of parental leave for fathers, as did the presence of other men who had taken parental leave at an earlier point in time. As of 2016 paternity leave accounts for 25% of paid parental leave in Sweden.\n\nIn 2013, Joseph, Pailhé, Recotillet, and Solaz published a natural experiment evaluating a 2004 policy change in France. They were interested in the economic effects of full-time, short paid parental leave. Before the reform, women had a mandatory two-month parental leave, and could take up to three years unpaid parental leave with their job guaranteed, though most women only took the two months. The new policy, \"complément libre choix d'activité\" (CLCA), guarantees six months of paid parental leave. The authors found positive effects on employment: compared to women in otherwise similar circumstances before the reform, first-time mothers who took the paid leave after the reform were more likely to be employed after their leave, and less likely to stay out of the labor force. The authors point to similar results of full-time, short paid parental leave observed in Canada in 2008 by Baker and Milligan, and in Germany in 2009 by Kluve and Tamm. However, Joseph, et al., also found that wages were lower (relative to women before the reform) for medium- and highly educated women after the leave, which could be because the women returned to work part-time or because of a \"motherhood penalty,\" where employers discriminate against mothers, taking the six-month leave as a \"signal\" that the woman will not be as good of an employee because of her mothering responsibilities.\n\nRasmussen conducted analyzed a similar natural experiment in Denmark with a policy change in 1984 where parental leave increased from 14 to 20 weeks. Rasmussen found the increased length of parental leave had no negative effect on women's wages or employment, and in the short-run (i.e., 12 months) it had a positive effect on women's wages, compared to the shorter leave. There was no difference on children's long-term educational outcomes before and after the policy change.\n\nA Harvard report cited research showing paid maternity leave “facilitates breastfeeding and reduces risk of infection” but is not associated with changes in immunization rate. This research also found that countries with parental leave had lower infant mortality rates. Returning to work within 12 weeks was also associated with less regular medical checkups. Data from 16 European countries during the period 1969-1994 revealed that the decrease of infant mortality rates varied based on length of leave. A 10-week leave was associated with a 1-2% decrease; a 20-week leave with 2-4%; and 30 weeks with 7-9%. The United States, which does not have a paid parental leave law, ranked 56th in the world in 2014 in terms of infant mortality rates, with 6.17 deaths per every 1,000 children born. The research did not find any infant health benefits in countries with unpaid parental leave.\n\nPaid leave, particularly when available prior to childbirth, had a significant effect on birth weight. The frequency of low birth rate decreases under these policies which likely contributes to the decrease in infant mortality rates as low birth weight is strongly correlated with infant death. However, careful analysis reveals that increased birth weight is not the sole reason for the decreased mortality rate.\n\nAccording to a 2016 study, the expansion of government-funded maternity leave in Norway from 18 to 35 weeks had little effect on children's schooling. However, when infants bond and have their needs met quickly by caregivers (mothers, fathers, etc.) they will become confident and be prepared to have healthy relationships throughout their life.\n\nChildren whose mothers did not work in the first 9 months were found to be less ready for school at the age of 3 years. The effects of mother's employment appeared to be the most detrimental when employment started between the sixth and ninth month of life. The reasons for this were uncertain, but there is conjecture that there was something unusual for the group of mothers who returned to work in this time period as they represented only 5% of all families studied. Negative impacts in terms of school-readiness were most pronounced when the mother worked at least 30 hours per week. These findings were complicated by many factors, including race, poverty, and how sensitive the mother was considered. The effects were also greater in boys which is explained by the fact that many analysts consider boys more vulnerable to stress in early life.\n\nThe same Harvard report also linked paid parental leave and a child’s psychological health. It found that parents with paid parental leave had closer bonds with their children. Based on research of heterosexual couples, a better father’s immersion in the process of raising a child leads to an enhanced child’s development and furthermore improves the relationship between the two parents. In recent years, various OECD countries drew attention to the topic, especially to the time of the parental leave taken by fathers, and concluded that short-term paternal leaves still lead to positive outcomes for the child’s development. However, due to the typically higher income-levels of men, maternal leaves are preferred to paternal leaves since the family forfeits less income when the mother takes a break work.\n\nThere are also observable improvements in the mental health of mothers when they are able to return to work later. While the probability of experiencing postpartum depression had no significant statistical change, longer leave (leave over 10 weeks) was associated with decreased severity of depression and decreased number of experienced symptoms. This reduction was, on average, between 5% and 10%.\n\nWhile studies have shown conflicting results, some research has shown a link between paid parental leave and higher fertility rates. The research looked at women 25–34 years old, who are more likely to be affected by leave legislation. Fertility rates peaked for those between 25-29 and 30-34 across European countries.\n\nThe economic consequences of parental leave policies are subject to controversy. According to a 2016 study, the expansion of government-funded maternity leave in Norway from 18 to 35 weeks had net costs which amounted to 0.25% of GDP, negative redistribution properties and implied a considerable increase in taxes at a cost to economic efficiency. In the U.S., paid family leave tends to lead to a higher employee retention rate and higher incomes for families. Evidence from selected countries in Western Europe suggests that moderate levels of parental leave can encourage mothers to reenter the work force after having children, promoting national economic development.\n\nParental leave policies has an impact on gender equality with regards to parenting and is therefore used by various countries as a tool to promote gender equality. Many countries/regions have implement paid parental leave policies for both parents, which promotes gender equality, while a minority of countries, like the United States, only have unpaid maternity leave.\n\nWhen discussing the sources of gender inequality, the lack of men's participation in parenting was rarely considered as a source of gender inequality. Various studies highlights the importance of egalitarian parental leave policies in achieving equal distribution of childcare between parents.Moreover, when discussing parental leave policies, generally the current state of largely maternity leave provided is compared with the absence of parental leave in the past, rather examining and comparing the impact of diverse policies seen in many countries around the world that distributes parental leave differently between both parents.\n\nStatistics show a positive correlation between maternal only leave policies and women’s employment, but the causation relationship cannot be firmly established. While many believe that maternal leave policies encourage women's participation in the labor force, Anita Nyberg suggests that it is the other way around and that maternal leave policy's development was a response to women's participation in the labor force.\n\nIt is generally agreed that men's involvement in childcare at the same level as women is essential for eliminating differences in gender roles. Thus, an increase in the use of parental leave by women (and lack thereof by men) will have a negative impact on gender equality. Inversely, an increase in the use of leave by men will have a positive impact. Transferable leave appear to be fair and equal in theory, since they do not specifically allot childcare to women and even allow the family to choose. In practice, it leads to the majority of women using most of the parental leave.\n\nThrough examination of leave policies in twenty-one European countries by describing the existing policy schemes’ duration, payment, and transferability, Carmen Castro-Garcia created the Parental Leave Equality Index (PLEI) which can predict the participation of each parent in raising their children based on their gender, and the existing policy regarding parental leave. His model shows that a policy that provides equal, nontransferable, and well-paid leave for each parent (which no country has at the moment) will best encourage men's and women's equal participation in childcare.\n\nThe European Union recognizes the ability for countries to utilize varying parental leave policies to affect labor force participation, the labor market, maternal health, the work–life balance of parents, and the physical and emotional development of children. And by affecting the work-life balance of parents, it may reduce the barriers to participation of both parents in parenting. More specifically, paternity and parental leave policies are key to encouraging fathers’ involvement in parenting the child.\n\nIn 2014, the European Parliament concludes that by promoting the uptake of parental leave and paternity leave by fathers, governments can aim to facilitate a more gender-equal distribution of care work, support mothers’ return to the labor market, and to equalize the circumstances in which women and men enter the labor market. And that the uptake of paternity leave and father-specific parental leave also has a positive effect on the work–life balance of families.\n\nFindings by the European Parliament in 2015 found that 18 of the EU-28 countries offer paternity leave, and that the EU-average length is 12.5 days, ranging from one day in Italy to 64 working days in Slovenia. For 23 EU member states, on average only 10 percent of fathers take parental leave, ranging from 0.02 per cent in Greece to 44 per cent in Sweden.\n\nThe gender difference in the employment rate is representative of the gender employment gap; filling this gap is an important objective in promoting gender equality and is a part of the Europe 2020 target of an employment rate of 75 per cent for both men and women.The uptake of leave by fathers can reduce the motherhood penalty by enabling mothers to return to the labor market, as illustrated by studies that have shown that the involvement of fathers in childcare has a positive effect on mothers’ full-time employment.\n\nReduction of the gender pay gap (GPG) is also an important goal for the EU. In 2014 the GPG in the EU-28 was 16.1 percent, which means that for every euro men got paid in the EU, women got paid 83.9 cents. (The GPG exists equally after correction for occupation and education level.) An study done on the gender pension gap estimates the gap to be around 40 percent, which is more than twice the gender pay gap.Increased leave uptake by fathers can reduce the length of career interruptions for women, reduce part-time work by women and potentially reduce the GPG, all of which are leading causes of the gender pension gap.\n\nThe advancement of gender equality has also been on the political agenda of Nordic countries for decades. Although, all Nordic countries have extended the total leave period, their politics towards father’s quota are different. Iceland and Norway have established equal 3 month quotas for the father. In Sweden 90 days cannot be transferred from one parent to the other—i.e. each parent gets at least 90 days of parental leave, thus the quota applies equally to both parents and is not specifically fathers. The only Nordic country that does not provide fathers with a quota is Denmark. However, the dual earner/dual care model seems to be the direction of all the Nordic countries are moving in the construction of their parental leave systems.\n\nA study done in Norway found that when parental leave is granted for both parents, there is still gender inequality observed in the form of mothers being more likely to have part-time jobs compared to non-mothers. Since, the governments has provided child care support for parents who wants them to encourage mothers to return to full-time jobs earlier, and it is effective to a certain extent.\n\nIn Germany, original laws tackling gender inequality with respect to parenting date back to 1986 in both Eastern and Western Germany where one parent could take up to two years of leave after the birth of the child with a maximum allowance. A study done in 2006, 97% of the people who took the leave were mothers.\n\nIn 2007, declining birth rates and demographic change led to a new law, the \"Parenting Benefits and Parental Leave Law\" (Bundeselterngeld- und Elternzeit-Gesetz). This change in family policy had mainly two aims: to reduce parents' financial loss in the first year after childbirth, and to encourage fathers to actively participate in childcare by taking parental leave.\n\nWith this shift in paradigm, a better work-life balance and less support for the male breadwinner model was targeted. This was part of a \"sustainable family policy\" promoted by German unification and European integration with the underlying objective was to raise birth rates by providing financial incentive. \n\nThe law's impact was mainly perceived positively with men reporting high motivation to take leave. So far this has not been reflected in official statistics, but Susanne Vogl concludes that if there is a general willingness of men to participate in parental leave the new Parenting Benefits regulations will help facilitate the actual decision to take a leave. \n\nEven though, according to a survey conducted by WorldatWork and Mercer in 2017, 93% of Americans agree that mother should receive paid parental leave, while 85% agree that fathers should receive paid parental leave, as of October 2018, the United States as a whole does not grant paid parental leave to its workforce. \n\nEven though the nation does not have laws granting parental leave, certain states passed laws providing paid workers with such rights. As of July 2018, 6 states(California, New Jersey, Rhode Island, New York, Washington, and Massachusetts) and 1 district (District of Columbia) have enacted laws that grant parental leave as part of state paid family and medical leave insurance laws, with 4 being effective currently. In states without such laws, a small proportion of companies does provide paid parental leave.\n\nAccording to Eileen Appelbaum, the lack of parental leave policies results in many low income families struggling to support themselves financially if both parents are off work. As a result, many mothers leave work to take care of her children while the father remains at work, trying to financially support the family best he could. This reinforces gender roles and gender inequality.\n\nAustralian government provides paid parental leave for both parents, but more for the mother compared to the father. Michael Bittman saw that the reason they provide parental leave is unique in that they view children as “public goods”, and therefore, the state is responsible to provide and support the child. But like most places around the world, studies done in Australia shows that the inequality still persists within the family, and that women spends more time doing unpaid work (like parenting) compared to men.\n\nAccording to a study done by Nan Jia, during the Maoist era, women's full participation in the labor force played a key role in the Chinese government's efforts to advance women's position in society, and to facilitate women's labor force participation, the Chinese government initiated a series of measures to mitigate the work–family conflict that women face during pregnancy and childbirth. These measures included an entitlement to 56 days of paid maternity leave.\n\nIn the post-reform era, a series of new regulations have been introduced to protect women's employment and reproductive rights in the new market economy. The Labor Law adopted in 1995 ensured that women and men have equal employment rights and that employers will not lay off women employees or lower their wages for reasons of marriage, pregnancy, maternity leave, or breastfeeding. The Labor Contract Law enacted in 2008 introduced the provision that prohibits employers from unilaterally terminating labor contracts with women employees who are pregnant, give birth, and care for a baby postpartum. Thus, under the Labor Law and Labor Contract Law, women employees are entitled to job-protected maternity leave. \n\nThe post-reform era saw further improvements in maternity benefits. The length of paid maternity leave was extended from fifty-six days prior to reform, to ninety days in 1988, and to 98 days in 2012. Most recently in 2016, paid maternity leave is extended to a minimum of 128 days after the long-standing one-child policy was replaced with a policy that encourages each couple to have two children. This latest extension of paid leave aims to increase fertility rates and slow the population aging process. None of the policies directly aim to tackle gender roles and gender inequality, but rather to solve immediate problems the country is facing at the time. \n\nSome businesses adopt policies that are favorable to workers and public opinion. In their study of maternity leave policies in the United States, Kelly and Dobbin found that public policy surrounding pregnancy as a temporary disability (for instance, California's Family Temporary Disability Insurance program) gave rise to business practices that included maternity leave as a benefit.\n\nCompanies are starting to offer paid parental leave as a benefit to some American workers, seeing a profitable aspect of doing so, including: reduced turnover costs, increased productivity from workers, and increased rates of retention among women after childbirth. Some see the increase in paid parental leave as indicative of companies reaching out to women, as more women are working and returning to work after having children, and by doing so these companies generate positive publicity as employers with family-friendly workplaces. W\"orking Mother\" magazine publishes a list of 100 Best Companies for working mothers each year, a list which is noted not only by the readership of the magazine, but also by corporate America and increasingly by researchers and policy institutes as well. The Institute for Women’s Policy Research issued a report in 2009 encouraging Congress to give federal workers four weeks of paid parental leave. The report cited statistics from the \"Working Mother\" 100 Best Company list, using private sector corporations as examples of substantial increase in the retention of new mothers after instituting a longer maternity leave policy. The report also noted that it would take newer workers four years to accrue enough paid leave (sick leave and annual leave) to equal the 12 weeks of unpaid parental leave provided under the FMLA, and that private sector companies which offer paid parental leave have a significant advantage over the federal government in the recruitment and retention of younger workers who may wish to have children.\n\nAs of February 2018, multinational companies such as Deloitte, TIAA and Cisco were providing parental-leave regardless of the parent's gender.\n\nThe Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women introduces \"maternity leave with pay or with comparable social benefits without loss of former employment, seniority or social allowances\". The Maternity Protection Convention C 183 adopted in 2000 by International Labour Organization requires 14 weeks of maternity leave as minimum condition.\n\nNational laws vary widely according to the politics of each jurisdiction. As of 2012, only three countries do not mandate paid time off for new parents: Papua New Guinea, Lesotho, and the United States.\n\nUnless otherwise specified, the information in the tables below is gathered from the most recent International Labour Organization reports. Maternity leave refers to the legal protection given to the mother immediately after she gives birth (but may also include a period before the birth), paternity leave to legal protection given to the father immediately after the mother gives birth, and parental leave to protected time for childcare (usually for either parent) either after the maternity/paternity leave or directly immediately after birth (for example when the parent is not eligible for maternity/paternity leave, and/or where the time is calculated until the child is a specific age - therefore excluding maternity/paternity leave - usually such jurisdictions protect the job until the child reaches a specific age.) Others allow the parental leave to be transferred into part-time work time. Parental leave is generally available to either parent, except where specified. Leave marked \"Unpaid\" indicates the job is protected for the duration of the leave. Different countries have different rules regarding eligibility for leave, and long a parent has to have worked at their place of employment prior to giving birth before they are eligible for paid leave. In the European Union, the policies vary significantly by country - with regard to length, to payment, and to how parental leave relates to prior maternity leave - but the EU members must abide by the minimum standards of the Pregnant Workers Directive and Parental Leave Directive.\n\nAs international organizations are not subject to the legislation of any country, they have their own internal legislation on parental leave.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342305", "title": "Parole", "text": "Parole\n\nParole is a temporary release of a prisoner who agrees to certain conditions before the completion of the maximum sentence period, originating from the French \"parole\" (\"voice, spoken words\"). The term became associated during the Middle Ages with the release of prisoners who gave their word.\n\nThis differs greatly from amnesty or commutation of sentence in that parolees are still considered to be serving their sentences, and may be returned to prison if they violate the conditions of their parole. Conditions of parole often include things such as obeying the law, not voting in an election, refraining from drug and alcohol use, avoiding contact with the parolee's victims, obtaining employment and keeping required appointments with a parole officer. Should a parolee have legal dependents, namely minor children, the parolee may also be required to show cause of being a dedicated caregiver. A specific type of parole is medical parole or compassionate release which is the release of prisoners on medical or humanitarian grounds. Some justice systems, such as the United States federal system, place defendants on supervised release after serving their entire prison sentence; this is not the same as parole. In Colorado, parole is an additional punishment after the entire prison sentence is served, called \"mandatory parole\", per §18-1.3-401(1)(a)(V)(B).\n\nAlexander Maconochie, a Scottish geographer and captain in the Royal Navy, introduced the modern idea of parole when, in 1840, he was appointed superintendent of the British penal colonies in Norfolk Island, Australia. He developed a plan to prepare them for eventual return to society that involved three grades. The first two consisted of promotions earned through good behaviour, labour, and study. The third grade in the system involved conditional liberty outside of prison while obeying rules. A violation would return them to prison and they would start all over again through the ranks of the three-grade process. He reformed its ticket of leave system, instituting what many consider the world's first parole system. Prisoners served indeterminate sentences from which they could be released early if they showed evidence of rehabilitation through participation in a graded classification system based on a unit of exchange called a mark. Prisoners earned marks through good behavior, lost them through bad behavior, and could spend them on passage to higher classification statuses ultimately conveying freedom.\n\nIn an instance of multiple discovery, in 1846, Arnould Bonneville de Marsangy proposed the idea of parole (which he termed \"preparatory liberations\") to the Civil Tribunal at Reims.\n\nIn general, in Canada, prisoners are eligible to apply for full parole after serving one-third of their sentences. Prisoners are also eligible to apply for day parole, and can do this before being eligible to apply for full parole.\n\nAny prisoner whose sentence is less than two years is sent to a correctional facility in the province or territory that convicted him or her, whilst anyone sentenced to serve no less than two years will be sent to a federal correctional facility and will thus have to deal with the Parole Board of Canada.\n\nParole is an option for most prisoners. However, parole is not guaranteed, particularly for prisoners serving life or indeterminate sentences. In cases of first-degree murder, one can apply for parole after 25 years if convicted of a single murder. However, if convicted of multiple murder (either first or second-degree), the sentencing judge has the option to make parole ineligibility periods consecutive - thereby extending parole ineligibility beyond 25 years and, in rare cases, beyond a normal life-span.\n\nIn China, prisoners are often granted medical parole or compassionate release, which releases them on the grounds that they must receive medical treatment which cannot be provided for in prison. Occasionally, medical parole is used as a no-publicity way of releasing an accidentally imprisoned convict.\n\nThe Chinese legal code has no explicit provision for exile, but often dissidents are released on the grounds that they need to be treated for a medical condition in another country, and with the understanding that they will be reincarcerated if they return to China. Dissidents who have been released on medical parole include Ngawang Chophel, Ngawang Sangdrol, Phuntsog Nyidron, Takna Jigme Zangpo, Wang Dan, Wei Jingsheng, Gao Zhan and Fang Lizhi.\n\nUntil 2001, parole in Israel was possible only after the prisoner had served two thirds of their sentence. On 13 February 2001 the Knesset passed a bill, brought forward by Reuven Rivlin and David Libai, which allowed the early release of prisoners who had served half of their prison term. The law was originally intended to help ease overcrowding in prisons.\n\n\"Libertà condizionata\" is covered by Article 176 of the Italian Penal Code. A prisoner is eligible if he has served at least 30 months (or 26 years for life sentences), and the time remaining on his sentence is less than half the total (normally), a quarter of the total (if previously convicted or never convicted) or five years (for sentences greater than 7.5 years). In 2006, 21 inmates were granted \"libertà condizionata\".\n\nIn New Zealand, inmates serving a short-term sentence (up to two years) are automatically released after serving half their sentence, without a parole hearing. Inmates serving sentences of more than two years are normally seen by the New Zealand Parole Board after serving one-third of the sentence, although the judge at sentencing can make an order for a minimum non-parole period of up to two-thirds of the sentence. Inmates serving life sentences usually serve a minimum of 10 years, or longer depending on the minimum non-parole period, before being eligible for parole. Parole is not an automatic right and it was declined in 71 percent of hearings in the year ending 30 June 2010. Many sentences include a specific non-parole period.\n\nParole in the United Kingdom was originally the bailiwick of just the Parole Board, but is now regulated by the National Offender Management Service. The conditions of release are called a licence, and parole is called \"released on licence\". There are six standard licence conditions for most (non-life sentence) prisoners.\n\nSexual offenders have a seventh condition. Additional conditions of a specific licence may be suggested by prison governors and set by the Probation Service. Since 2014 many of the probation and license monitoring functions have been carried out by private-sector \"community rehabilitation companies\" (CRCs).\n\nPenologist Zebulon Brockway introduced parole when he became superintendent of Elmira Reformatory in Elmira, New York. To manage prison populations and rehabilitate those incarcerated, he instituted a two-part strategy that consisted of indeterminate sentences and parole releases.\n\nIn the United States, courts may specify in a sentence how much time must be served before a prisoner is eligible for parole. This is often done by specifying an indeterminate sentence of, say, \"15 to 25 years\", or \"15 years to life\". The latter type is known as an indeterminate life sentence; in contrast, a sentence of \"life without the possibility of parole\" is known as a determinate life sentence.\n\nOn the federal level, Congress abolished parole in the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 (Pub. L. No. 98-473 § 218(a)(5), 98 Stat. 1837, 2027 [repealing 18 U.S.C.A. § 4201 et seq.]). Federal prisoners may, however, earn a maximum of 54 days good time credit per year against their sentence (18 U.S.C.A. § 3624(b)). At the time of sentencing, the federal judge may also specific a post-imprisonment period of supervised release. The U.S. Parole Commission still has jurisdiction over parole for those prisoners convicted of felonies in the District of Columbia and who are serving their sentences there, as well as over certain federally incarcerated military and international prisoners.\n\nIn most states, the decision of whether an inmate is paroled is vested in a paroling authority such as a parole board. Mere good conduct while incarcerated in and of itself does not necessarily guarantee that an inmate will be paroled. Other factors may enter into the decision to grant or deny parole, most commonly the establishment of a permanent residence and immediate, gainful employment or some other clearly visible means of self-support upon release (such as Social Security if the prisoner is old enough to qualify). Many states now permit sentences of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole (such as for murder and espionage), and any prisoner not sentenced to either this or the death penalty will eventually have the right to petition for release (one stateAlaskamaintains neither the death penalty nor life imprisonment without parole as sentencing options).\n\nBefore being granted the privilege of parole, the inmate meets with members of the parole board and is interviewed, The parolee also has a psychological exam. The inmate must first agree to abide by the conditions of parole set by the paroling authority. While in prison, the inmate signs a parole certificate or contract. On this contract are the conditions that the inmate must follow. These conditions usually require the parolee to meet regularly with his or her parole officer or community corrections agent, who assesses the behavior and adjustment of the parolee and determines whether the parolee is violating any of his or her terms of release (typically these include being at home during certain hours which is called a curfew, maintaining steady employment, not absconding, refraining from illicit drug use and, sometimes, abstaining from alcohol), attending drug or alcohol counseling, and having no contact with their victim. The inmate gives an address which is verified by parole officers as valid before the inmate is released to parole supervision.\n\nUpon release, the parolee goes to a parole office and is assigned a parole officer. Parole officers make unannounced visits to parolees' houses or apartments to check on them. During these home visits officers look for signs of drug or alcohol use, guns or illegal weapons, and other illegal activities. Should parolees start to use drugs or alcohol, they are told to go to drug or alcohol counseling and Narcotics Anonymous or Alcoholics Anonymous meetings. Should they not comply with conditions on the parole certificate a warrant is issued for their arrest. Their parole time is stopped when the warrant is issued and starts only after they are arrested. They have a parole violation hearing within a specified time, and then a decision is made by the parole board to revoke their parole or continue the parolee on parole. In some cases, a parolee may be discharged from parole before the time called for in the original sentence if it is determined that the parole restrictions are no longer necessary for the protection of society (this most frequently occurs when elderly parolees are involved).\n\nService members who commit crimes while in the U.S. military may be subject to court martial proceedings under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). If found guilty, they may be sent to federal or military prisons and upon release may be supervised by U.S. Federal Probation officers.\n\nThe United States is the only nation in the world where parole is a politically divisive issue. According to the U.S. Department of Justice, at least sixteen states have removed the option of parole entirely, and four more have abolished parole for certain violent offenders. During elections, politicians whose administrations parole any large number of prisoners (or, perhaps, one notorious criminal) are typically attacked by their opponents as being \"soft on crime\". The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) stated in 2005 that about 45% of parolees completed their sentences successfully, while 38% were returned to prison, and 11% absconded. These statistics, the DOJ says, are relatively unchanged since 1995; even so, some states (including New York) have abolished parole altogether for violent felons, and the federal government abolished it in 1984 for all offenders convicted of a federal crime, whether violent or not. Despite the decline in jurisdictions with a functioning parole system, the average annual growth of parolees was an increase of about 1.6% per year between 1995 and 2002.\n\nA variant of parole is known as \"time off for good behavior\", or, colloquially, \"good time\". Unlike the traditional form of parolewhich may be granted or denied at the discretion of a parole boardtime off for good behavior is automatic absent a certain number (or gravity) of infractions committed by a convict while incarcerated (in most jurisdictions the released inmate is placed under the supervision of a parole officer for a certain amount of time after being so released). In some cases \"good time\" can reduce the original sentence by as much as one-third. It is usually not made available to inmates serving life sentences, as there is no release date that can be moved up.\n\nSome states in the United States have what is known as \"mandatory supervision\", whereby an inmate is released before the completion of their sentence due to legal technicalities which oblige the offender justice system to free them. In the federal prison system, and in some states such as Texas, inmates are compensated with \"good time\", which is counted towards time served. For example, if an inmate served five years of a ten-year prison term, and also had five years of \"good time\", they will have completed their sentence \"on paper\", obliging the state to release them unless deemed a threat to society in writing by the parole board. Where parole is granted or denied at the discretion of a parole board, mandatory supervision does not involve a decision making process: one either qualifies for it or does not. Mandatory supervision tends to involve stipulations that are more lenient than those of parole, and in some cases place no obligations at all on the individual being released.\n\nIn US immigration law, the term \"parole\" has two meanings related to allowing persons to enter or leave the United States without the normally required documentation.\n\nParole is \"the agreement of persons who have been taken prisoner by an enemy that they will not again take up arms against those who captured them, either for a limited time or during the continuance of the war.\" The US Department of Defense defines parole more broadly: \"Parole agreements are promises given the captor by a POW to fulfill stated conditions, such as not to bear arms or not to escape, in consideration of special privileges, such as release from captivity or lessened restraint.\"\n\nThe practice of paroling enemy troops began thousands of years ago, at least as early as the time of Carthage. Parole allowed the prisoners' captors to avoid the burdens of having to feed and care for them while still avoiding having the prisoners rejoin their old ranks once released; it could also allow the captors to recover their own men in a prisoner exchange. Hugo Grotius, an early international lawyer, favorably discussed prisoner of war parole. During the American Civil War, both the Dix–Hill Cartel and the Lieber Code set out rules regarding prisoner of war parole. Francis Lieber's thoughts on parole later reappeared in the Declaration of Brussels of 1874, the Hague Convention, and the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War.\n\nIn the United States, current policy prohibits US military personnel who are prisoners of war from accepting parole. The Code of the United States Fighting Force states: \"I will accept neither parole nor special favors from the enemy.\" The position is reiterated by the Department of Defense. \"The United States does not authorize any Military Service member to sign or enter into any such parole agreement.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59020063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59020063", "title": "Particularly serious crime", "text": "Particularly serious crime\n\nParticularly serious crime in the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) of the United States refers to any criminal conviction that manifestly renders the actor a danger to the community of the United States. Every aggravated felony conviction for which a sentence of at least 5 years of imprisonment was actually imposed by a court of law is considered to be a particularly serious crime.\n\nAny alien (other than a refugee) who has been convicted of a particularly serious crime is ineligible for asylum in the United States, unless its \"term of imprisonment was completed within the previous 15 years.\" This legal finding \"is consistent with one of the most basic interpretive canons, that a statute should be construed so that effect is given to all its provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant.\" In this regard, the INA expressly states the following:\n\n\"The ordinary meaning of 'notwithstanding' is 'in spite of,' or 'without prevention or obstruction from or by.'\" Congress is clearly and unambiguously saying that 8 U.S.C. §§ 1158(b)(2)(B)(i), 1182(a)(9)(A), 1227(a)(2)(A)(iii), 1229b(a), etc., must be overridden by the above quoted commanding statement under 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(43). \"In statutes, the [notwithstanding any other provision of law] 'shows which provision prevails in the event of a clash.'\" Moreover, courts have repeatedly explained that \"the phrase 'notwithstanding any other provision of law' expresses the legislative intent to override all contrary statutory and decisional law.\" This means that no kind of precedent can be invoked to challenge the above quoted commanding statement of Congress. \n\nSuch alien is also statutorily precluded from withholding of removal under the United Nations Convention against Torture (CAT). He or she, however, may seek deferral of removal under the CAT. It is common knowledge that granting protection under the CAT is not a discretionary action but statutory and mandatory. Courts have noticed that protection under the CAT is easier to obtain than a grant of asylum.\n\nThe term \"particularly serious crime\" was added to the INA when the U.S. Congress enacted the Refugee Act in 1980, which allowed 50,000 international refugees to be firmly resettled in the United States each year. In the same Act, Congress provided permanent protection to these refugees against deportation from the United States. In 1996, Congress reaffirmed the refugee protection but made clear that such protection must not be granted to any other class of aliens.\nAny criminal conviction that does not qualify as an aggravated felony or a crime involving moral turpitude (CIMT) indisputably cannot qualify as a particularly serious crime. The following is an incomplete list of particularly serious crimes:\n\nThis page in most part is based on law of the United States, including statutory and published case law.\n"}
{"id": "56409169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56409169", "title": "Perjury trap", "text": "Perjury trap\n\nA perjury trap is a form of prosecutorial misconduct in which a prosecutor calls a witness to testify, typically before a grand jury, with the intent of coercing the witness into perjury (intentional deceit under oath). Most often a perjury trap is employed because the prosecutor is unable to prosecute the defendant on other charges.\n\nAs an example, suppose that a person committed a crime for which they were never prosecuted, but the statute of limitations on that crime has expired. A prosecutor could set a perjury trap for them by calling them as a witness before a grand jury in a case about a different crime, and ask them about the expired crime. If the witness lies about the expired crime, that would be perjury—a new crime, which could then be prosecuted. Prosecution for perjury elicited in this manner violates due process of law, since the investigatory powers of the grand jury are exploited to reach beyond their legal limits. It has been argued by legal scholars whether it constitutes a form of entrapment.\n\nClaims of a perjury trap are common when perjury charges result from testimony before a grand jury, but are rarely proven. No US federal court has ever accepted a motion to dismiss because of claimed perjury trap. The defense is extremely difficult, because the question that elicited the perjured testimony must be immaterial to the case in which it was asked, and courts construe very broadly what questions count as material to a case.\n"}
{"id": "1149270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1149270", "title": "Prodnalog", "text": "Prodnalog\n\nProdnalog (, from продовольственный налог, Prodovolstvenniy nalog; \"food tax\") is the Russian word for a tax on food production, paid in kind in Soviet Russia, and sometimes known as \"the Tax in Kind\". \"Prodnalog\", which replaced \"prodrazvyorstka\", was introduced by a Decree of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee on March 21, 1921 and was abolished in 1924.\n\nThe transition to prodnalog was the first act of the New Economic Policy and a necessary incentive for increasing Soviet agricultural production . The peasants knew in advance how much produce they would have to surrender to the state. The rate of prodnalog was much smaller than prodrazvyorstka. For comparison, in 1920-1921 the peasants surrendered to the state 367 million \"poods\" (6,010,000 metric tons) of cereals through prodrazvyorstka, as opposed to 240 million poods (3,930,000 metric tons) in 1921-1922 through prodnalog.\n\nDuring the first year of introduction of prodnalog, a significant amount of bread and other products remained at peasant households' disposal, which provided an incentive for peasants to develop their own household economy, widen the sowing areas, increase the total number of livestock and productivity of crops. The rate of prodnalog on each kind of agricultural product was determined depending on local conditions and prosperity of a given peasant household. The Soviet state adhered to a policy of progressive taxation; the highest rate of prodnalog had to be paid by the kulak households.\n\nIn March and April 1921, a number of Soviet Decrees introduced a natural tax on bread, potato, oilseeds, eggs, dairy products, wool, hides, flax and hemp linen, tobacco etc. The collection of agricultural goods in excess of prodnalog, if necessary, was intended to be made on a barter basis by giving peasants manufactured goods. In order to accelerate the expansion of commodity circulation, create necessary conditions for developing farming and industry and speed up the productive forces of the country, the government encouraged small-scale production all over Soviet Union. The introduction of prodnalog revived the trade and created a different kind of relations between the city and the village. \nBy the decision of the 12th Congress of the RCP(b) (April 1923), prodnalog and other taxes in the rural areas were exchanged for a universal direct agricultural tax (decree of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee and Sovnarkom on May 10, 1923). The latter would be collected in monetary form starting in 1924, with the establishment of hard currency in the USSR.\n\n"}
{"id": "2922567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2922567", "title": "Public service obligation", "text": "Public service obligation\n\nIn the context of European Union law, a public service obligation or PSO means an obligation imposed on an organisation by legislation or contract to provide a service of general interest within the European Union territories. PSOs may operate in any field of public service, but postal services, social services, energy, transport and banking are identified as specific sectors where the concept is relevant.\n\nIn the context of EU transport law, a PSO is an arrangement in which a governing body or other authority offers an auction for subsidies, thereby permitting the winning company a monopoly to operate a specified service of public transport for a specified period of time for the given subsidy. This is done in cases where there is not enough revenue for routes to be profitable in a free market, but where there is a socially desirable advantage in this transport being available. The use of PSO can be applied to many mode of transport, including air, sea, road or rail. In many cases the introduction of PSO has been a way to privatize former government owned transport. The infrastructure is often separated from the operation, and may be owned by the governing body or by a third party. The authority may also maintain the ownership of the vehicles, such as ferries or rolling stock.\n\nTraditionally, public transport has been operated through a company wholly owned by the state with monopoly, like a national railway company. Alternatively, private companies were granted privileges (with or without subsidies) granting them a monopoly. In later years many markets have been deregulated, especially in Europe, paying the lowest bidding operator to carry out the traffic at regular auctions.\n\nThe authority issuing the auction may be a ministry of transport, county, province, state, municipality or other regional or local authority, or it can be a transit authority or other ad hoc organization responsible for some state of transport in an area. To be the auctioning part the authority must have some vested interest in subsidizing the transport in addition to the authority to ban other interests from operating competing services on parts or all of the system.\n\nThe auctioneer will specify a number of terms of the service, such as frequency, size of vehicle, timing of service, the maximum permitted fare paid by some or all the available seats and/or other specifications related to service and quality. The auctioneer can specify either a net or gross contract. In the latter the operator bids for the full operating costs, and all revenue goes to the authority; with net contracts the operator will be granted all revenue, and will bid only for the necessary difference between fare revenue and that needed to make the desired profit. The use of gross contracts reduces the risk of the operator since they do not need to estimate the ridership and will normally give lower bids since there is a lower risk premium in each bid. This option also makes it easier to create free transfer between operators and modes.\n\nNet contracts commonly used to give the operators an incentive to increase ridership, where there would be a high administrative costs with the authority administrating the fares, or where the auctioneer wants to reduce its own risk. Urban public transport with transit authorities is most commonly operated with gross contracts, while airlines and ferry routes are typically operated on net contracts.\n\nTypical uses of PSO include regional airline services in districts of for instance in Northern Norway or Ireland, where the airlines serve marginally populated areas not profitable for the carriers without subsidies. Rail services can be unprofitable even on major routes, and government subsidies are sometimes offered through PSO on unprofitable routes, for instance this has been very popular in Germany. Most cities subsidize their public transport, and in places where the transport is provided by private companies, that may be awarded through PSO. Other common PSO services are ferries, such as the routes to Gotland in Sweden, or car ferries on the road network of Norway. Ferry routes serving outlying islands in Hong Kong are also subsidised since recently, as a result of rising oil price and therefore the costs of operations.\n\nIn the European Union, route PSOs are governed by Regulation (EC) No 1008/2008 and Council Regulation (EEC) 3577/92. They must be offered for tender in the Official Journal of the European Union and be open to any transport operator registered in an EU member state. There are limitations in the number of passengers which can be carried where the route can remain eligible for PSO. The winning tenderer usually receives a monopoly on the route, but may have to conform to one or more conditions of service, such as the type and size of vehicle, the timing of services, the maximum fare paid for a portion or all of the seats offered, membership of a common reservation system, quality of service measured by a maximum percentage of cancelled services, etc.\n\nExamples of air transport PSOs currently in operation in Europe are routes from Dublin to Kerry and Donegal, routes between the Greek Mainland and the Greek Islands, routes from Italian mainland to Sardinia and Elba, routes between the French mainland and Corsica, certain domestic routes within Sweden and Finland, and routes to the Scottish Highlands and Islands.\n\nInternational routes are usually not supported by PSO. This is because of a political principle that people should pay for international travel themselves, not through tax money. This is especially evident in Scandinavia where there is very little international air traffic between cities other than through the capitals, where connections are commercially profitable.\n\nThe term is also used about electricity generation, such as wind power and biomass powerplants.\n\nThe Essential Air Service (EAS) is a U.S. government program enacted to guarantee that small communities in the United States, which, prior to deregulation, were served by certificated airlines, maintained commercial service. Its aim is to maintain a minimal level of scheduled air service to these communities that otherwise would not be profitable. This came in response to the Airline Deregulation Act, passed in 1978, which gave U.S. airlines almost total freedom to determine which markets to serve domestically and what fares to charge for that service. The program is codified at .\nThe United States Department of Transportation (DOT) subsidizes airlines to serve rural communities across the country that otherwise would not receive any scheduled air service. As of November 1, 2013, the Essential Air Service subsidized 160 communities, of which 43 were in Alaska, whose guidelines for service are distinct from the rest of the country. The decision as to what degree of subsidized service a community requires is made based on identifying a specific hub for the community and from there determining the number of trips, seats, and type of aircraft that are necessary to reach that hub.\n\n"}
{"id": "1875682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875682", "title": "Riding circuit", "text": "Riding circuit\n\nRiding circuit is the practice of judges and lawyers, sometimes referred to as circuit riders, travelling to a regular series of locations in order to hold court there, but the term remains in the name \"circuit court\", commonly applied to levels of court that oversee many lower district courts.\n\n"}
{"id": "35607055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35607055", "title": "Save the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Manhattan Beach", "text": "Save the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Manhattan Beach\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Manhattan Beach is a California Supreme Court case, decided by a full majority, in which the plaintiffs challenged the City of Manhattan Beach's ordinance banning single-use plastic bags.\n\nOn July 14, 2008, the City of Manhattan Beach adopted Ordinance No. 2115 to ban the use of single use plastic bags at \"retail establishments, restaurants, vendor or non-profit vendor.\" The plastic ban ordinance is only applicable to plastic bags used to take goods away from a store, but not produce bags from grocery stores. As stated in Section 1, A of the ordinance, \"As a coastal city Manhattan Beach has a strong interest in protecting the marine\nenvironment an element which contributes to the unique quality of life in the City.\"\n\nThe City of Manhattan Beach concluded the proposed ordinance would not have a significant effect on the environment and a Negative Declaration was prepared. Subsequently, a writ of mandate was submitted to the Los Angeles Superior Court which was granted and upheld by the Appeals Court. A petition for review was submitted to California Supreme Court by City of Manhattan Beach and on April 21, 2010, the California Supreme Court accepted the City of Manhattan Beach's Petition. On July 14, 2011, by unanimous decision the California Supreme Court upheld the standing of the Save the Plastic Bag Coalition, but reversed the judgment by the Court of the appeals that there was substantial evidence in the administrative record that an environmental impact report should be prepared.\n\nThe Plaintiff - Save The Plastic Bag Coalition (the \"Coalition\") is an unincorporated association. Its members are plastic bag manufacturers, plastic bag distributors, retailers, and concerned citizens. The Coalition was founded by Elkay Plastics and Command Packaging. The coalition grew quickly after the ordinance banning plastic bags was adopted by the City of Manhattan Beach and included several other companies that sell and distribute plastic bags to retail stores, restaurants and other businesses operating in the City of Manhattan Beach.\n\nThe Defendant- The City of Manhattan Beach. The City had completed an initial environmental study regarding the environmental impact of banning single-use plastic carry bags. The premise for the ban was that plastic bags make up a significant portion of litter within the city and create a significant eyesore throughout the community. The City of Manhattan performed the initial environmental study in June 2008 to meet the requirements of California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). Based on that study, the City of Manhattan determined that an Environmental Impact Report (EIR) was not required and a Negative Declaration was prepared and adopted by the City along with the ordinance banning plastic bags on July 15, 2008.\n\nThe high-density polyethylene (HDPE) single-use bag was invented by a Swedish company in the 1960s. The single-use plastic bag was introduced into the U.S. by ExxonMobil Corporation and had found its way to grocery stores by 1976. In the United States, there are approximately 92 billion plastic bags used annually by retail industries such as supermarkets and pharmacies as compared to roughly 5 billion paper bags. From a global perspective, it is estimated there are anywhere from 500 billion to 1 trillion plastic bags used each year. Due to concerns over litter and impacts to marine wildlife and environments, many countries have either banned or placed levies on plastic bags. Within the United States, there are 16 states that have introduced some type of legislation banning, imposing fees, or mandating plastic bag recycling. Following the San Francisco 2007 ordinance banning plastic bags, twelve California cities have enacted plastic bag ordinances, including Malibu, Santa Monica, Fairfax, Palo Alto, Long Beach and Manhattan Beach. Similar actions have taken place at the county level in Los Angeles, Marin and Santa Clara counties with numerous other cities and counties following suit with proposed plastic bag ordinances pending activation. In efforts to respond to pressure from retailers and environmental and special interest groups, the plastic bag industry is looking to increase the amount of recycled material in plastic bags to 40% by the year 2015. The plastic bag industry believes that by increasing the recycling of plastic bags, some 463 million pounds of greenhouse gas emissions and 300 million pounds of waste will be avoided on an annual basis.\n\nThere are numerous reports and studies regarding the negative impacts associated with single-use plastic bags. A summary of two reports with relevance to this case are provided here. The first is a staff report to the Los Angeles Board of Supervisors on plastic bags which identified several findings including plastic carryout bags being a significant contributor to litter and having detrimental impacts on marine wildlife and the environment. The report also concluded that biodegradable carryout bags were not a practical solution to the issue as there are no local composting facilities available to process biodegradable bags. The final two findings of the report focused on the benefits of reusable bags over plastic as well as paper bags and that the acceleration of the widespread use of reusable bags will lessen the amount of litter from plastic bags. The second report is a comprehensive compilation of information and literature regarding single-use bags found in the Master Environmental Assessment (MEA) on Single Use and Reusable Bags. The intent of the MEA is to provide a comprehensive reference available to cities and counties that can be used to help in understanding the impacts associated with actions targeted at cutting the use of single-use bags. The MEA reports several findings specific to plastic bags, including that \"nearly 20 billion single-use high-density polyethylene (HDPE) plastic grocery bags are used annually in California, and most end up in landfills or as litter. In fact, of the four types of bags considered, plastic bags had the greatest impact on litter.\" The MEA reports that single-use paper bags are recycled more than plastic bags, but considering lifecycles, paper bags contribute to larger greenhouse gas emission, water consumption and ozone production as compared to plastic bags. In comparing plastic bags to biodegradable bags, the MEA found that biodegradable bags had a higher environmental impact at the manufacturing stage and that biodegradable bags may degrade only under composting conditions and will have similar effects on aesthetics and marine life when littered.\n\nSeveral studies cited in the lower court's records assert that the removal of plastic bags from retail stores and shops actually increase the use of paper bags, which are worse for the environment from a sustainability point of view. The Boustead Report documents a life-cycle assessment for biodegradable plastic, recycled/recyclable paper, and recyclable plastic bags. The results of the report show that impact from recyclable plastic bags is the least of all of the bags when considering total energy, fossil fuel use, amount of solid waste, greenhouse gas emissions, and freshwater usage.\n\nA Scottish study evaluated the potential impacts of placing a levy on light-weight plastic bags used by retail shops and other businesses. The study considered several alternatives ranging from placing a levy only on plastic bags at large retailers to placing a levy on plastic and paper bags covering all businesses. The study concluded that environmental benefits would be realized by consumers forgoing the use of lightweight plastic bags and using reusable bags. In each scenario evaluated, consumption of non-renewable energy, atmospheric acidification, the formation of ground-level ozone and the risk of litter decreased as compared to the current use of bags. The study did suggest paper bags have a greater negative environmental impact than conventional plastic carrier bags. If plastic bags are replaced by paper bags, it is estimated that paper bag usage will increase by 174 million bags per year to 213 million per year. This will have associated environmental implications in terms of increased energy use, transport costs, storage space and waste disposal.\n\nA third study evaluated the impacts of the San Francisco Plastic Bag Reduction ordinance which was enacted in November 2007 and banned the use of plastic bags by supermarkets and drugstores. The study was conducted by visiting retail stores and observing checkout procedures and bagging preferences. The study concluded that if the plastic bag ban was intended to reduce impacts to the environment, results of the ban at the time of the study indicated that the ban would not be successful. The study also concluded that the state of California should ensure that recycling bins for plastic bags are present in all major stores as there is still a public desire to recycle plastic bags.\n\nThe two issues that were addressed include the following (as stated in the California Supreme Court opinion):\n\n\nLos Angeles Superior Court, Case No. BS-116362\n\nOn August 12, 2008, the Save the Plastic Bag Coalition submitted a writ of mandate to the Los Angeles Superior Court. The petitioners claim that the City of Manhattan Beach as the lead agency should have prepared an environmental impact report to address the assumptions of using plastic bags on the environment and analyze the impacts to the environment of increased usage of paper bags. Evidence was presented suggesting that using paper bags can have significant environmental impacts.\n\nIncluded in the writ of mandate was the City of Oakland decision issued in April 2008. The City of Oakland approved a similar ordinance as City of Manhattan Beach using a \"common sense\" and two categorical exemptions from the California Environmental Quality Act. The Alameda Superior Court determined the City of Oakland had not considered the environmental effects of increased paper bag usage because a Notice of Exemption had been issued.\n\nOn February 29, 2009, the petition for a writ of mandate was granted by the Los Angeles Superior Court. The first issue the Superior Court determined was if the petitioner had standing. The petitioner was granted standing because they are not \"a for profit corporation that is seeking a commercial advantage over a specific competitor.\" The second issue decided was that there was enough substantial evidence in the public record to support the conclusion that an environmental import report should be prepared to evaluate the impacts of increased paper bag usage prior to a decision by the City of Manhattan Beach.\n\nThe appeal, written by Judge David P. Yaffe held the Superior Court decision. The opinion reviewed four reports (the Scottish Government Report, the Boustead Report, ULS Report, and the Franklin Report) presented as substantial evidence in the record. The opinion concludes the Save the Plastic Bag Coalition is granted standing because they are a \"beneficially interested\" party; the ordinance is a \"project\" pursuant to review subject to the California Environmental Quality Act; and there is a fair argument for the preparation of an environmental impact report.\n\nThe opinion highlights the four different reports that concluded, \"a plastic bag ban is likely to lead to increased use of paper as well as reusable bags; paper bags have greater negative environmental effects as compared to plastic bags; and the negative environmental effects include greater nonrenewable energy and water consumption, greenhouse gas emissions, solid waste production, and acid rain.\" Based on a \"low threshold for preparation of an environmental impact report\" there is substantial evidence in the administrative record to support the conclusion that the plastic ban ordinance may have a significant impact on the environment, which requires the preparation of an environmental impact report to analyze the impacts. The City of Manhattan Beach lawyers argued the geographic size supports the conclusion that increased paper bag is negligible. However, as stated the opinion, the Initial Study prepared by the City of Manhattan Beach did not included this analysis and statutory exemptions from the California Environmental Quality Act do not apply to Cities \"based on geographic or population size.\"\n\nThe dissenting opinion, written by Judge J. Mosk, focuses on the language in the ordinance by clarifying the focus of the ordinance is on \"distribution (not use) of plastic carryout bags\" and \"promotes the use of reusable bags (not paper bags) and does not consider the ordinance as a project pursuant to the California Environmental Quality Act. Also, the dissenting opinion, disputes the premise the reports presented are substantial evidence because they are general conclusions about the international plastic bag industry and/or does not specifically address the environmental impacts of plastic bags in a small coastal town in California.\n\nThe opinion, written by Judge J. Corrigan concludes the Save the Plastic Bag Coalition satisfies the requirement for public interest, whereas the City argued the plaintiff does not have standing based on the Waste Management, supra, 79 Cal.App.4th 1223. The Supreme Court rejected \"the Waste Management rule holding corporations to a higher standard in qualifying for public interest standing\" and concluded, \"the ordinance's ban on plastic bags would have a severe and immediate effect on their business in the City.\"\n\nOn the issue of whether there was a fair argument that City of Manhattan Beach prepare an environmental impact report, the Court ruled that, \"Substantial evidence and common sense support the city's determination that its ordinance would have no significant environmental effect. Therefore, a negative declaration was sufficient to comply with the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act.\" This decision was based on the \"overreliance on generic studies of life cycle impacts\" and the Court concluded proper perspective must be adhered in order evaluate environmental impacts.\n\nOther litigation regarding plastic bag laws in California includes the following:\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of San Francisco – Petition for Writ of Mandate, dated February 29, 2012. Petitioner seeks a judgment and writ of mandate to set aside, void, annul, and repeal the San Francisco Ordinance banning plastic carryout bags at retail stores, restaurants, and other food establishments, and requiring consumers to pay a 10-cent fee for each paper carryout bag and each compostable carryout bag. Petitioner claims that the ban violates CEQA because an EIR was not completed and that the ban is preempted by the California Retail Food Code.\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Long Beach - Petition for Writ of Mandate under CEQA – The Petitioner challenged the City of Long Beach and the selection of its own greenhouse gas significance threshold rather than use the thresholds identified in the Los Angeles County Environmental Impact Report on plastic bags use. The suit was dropped when the City of Long Beach adopted a resolution that adopting the Los Angeles county EIR without any change.\n\nSchmeer et al. v. County of Los Angeles - Petition for Writ of Mandate where petitioner challenged that the $0.10 charge on paper carry-out bags was a tax as defined in the California Constitution and since it was not put out for popular vote it was unconstitutional. Writ of mandate has been denied and a notice of appeal was filed on April 16, 2012.\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. The City of Carpinteria – Save the Plastic Bag Coalition filed suit against the City of Carpinteria filing of a city ordinance banning plastic bags on the grounds that the ordinance is preempted by the California Retail Food Code. Case expected to be heard in court in May 2012.\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. County of Marin, et al. – Petition for Writ of Mandate. Petitioner filed suit to have the county repeal an ordinance regulating retail stores provision of single-use plastic bags on the grounds that the county of Marin violated CEQA by not completing an EIR. The petition for writ of mandate was denied by the Superior Court on September 14, 2011. As of May 2012, the case was being heard in the 1st Appellate District Court.\n\nCoalition to Support Plastic Bag Recycling v. City of Oakland, et al. – Petition for Writ of Mandate filed and petitioner challenged the legality of a City of Oakland ordinance banning 100% recyclable bags from large retailers on the basis that CEQA had been violated because an environmental review of the impacts of the ordinance had not been completed. On May 16, 2008, an Alameda County Superior Court granted a writ of mandate in favor of the petitioners and ordered the City of Oakland to suspend the ordinance banning plastic bags and not re-enact the ordinance until such time that the City of Oakland had complied with the requirements of CEQA. The City of Oakland did not appeal the decision.\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. San Luis Obispo County Integrated Waste Management Authority - Petition for Writ of Mandate was filed on January 1, 2012. Petitioner challenged the legality of an ordinance banning plastic bags and requiring retailers to charge $0.10 per paper bag on the grounds that CEQA had been violated because an environmental impact report had not been completed prior to adoption of the ordinance. There have been no further court actions on this case as of May 2012.\n\nSave the Plastic Bag Coalition v. City of Palo Alto, et al. – Petition for Writ of Mandate filed on April 10, 2009. The Petitioner sought to have a city ordinance prohibiting supermarkets from distributing single-use plastic bags at the point of sale repealed on the basis that the City violated CEQA when they failed to complete an EIR prior to adopting the ordinance. The issues was resolved through a settlement agreement whereby, the suit was dropped and the City of Palo Alto agreed not enact or adopt any ordinance or law that prohibits, places a fee, or regulates the distribution of plastic bags unless the City completes an EIR that complies with the requirements of CEQA. The agreement did not include any ordinance that was enacted prior to March 30, 2009.\n"}
{"id": "5894168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5894168", "title": "Slavery at common law", "text": "Slavery at common law\n\nSlavery at common law in former colonies of the British Empire developed slowly over centuries, and was characterised by inconsistent decisions and varying rationales for the treatment of slavery, the slave trade, and the rights of slaves and slave owners. Unlike in its colonies, within the home islands of Britain, until 1807, except for statutes facilitating and taxing the international slave trade, there was virtually no legislative intervention in relation to slaves as property, and accordingly the common law had something of a \"free hand\" to develop, untrammeled by the \"paralysing hand of the Parliamentary draftsmen\".\n\nSome groups assert slavery was not recognised as lawful, often on the basis of pronouncements such as those attributed to Lord Mansfield, that \"the air of England is too pure for any slave to breathe.\" However the true legal position has been both nuanced and complex through the relevant time period. In the 17th and 18th century, some African slaves were openly held, sold, and sought within Britain.\n\nThere was Irish decree in 1171 \"that all the English slaves in the whole of Ireland, be immediately emancipated and restored to their former liberty.\" The same source indicates that slavery in England was abolished by a general charter of emancipation in 1381. Other historical sources for such an emancipation proclamation appear thin, although the date would coincide with the Peasants' Revolt, after which a number of concessions were made by the 14-year-old King Richard II, which were later rescinded. Certainly villeinage continued in England, slowly decaying, until the last villein died in the early 17th century..\n\nIn later common law cases, none of the foregoing decrees or proclamations were cited or referred to as binding law in relation to the status of slaves generally.\n\nIn 1569, a man, Cartwright, was observed savagely beating another, which in law would have amounted to a battery, unless a defence could be mounted. Cartwright averred that the man was a slave whom he had brought to England from Russia, and thus such chastisement was not unlawful. The case is reported by John Rushworth in his 1721 summary of John Lilburne's case of 1649. He wrote: \"Whipping was painful and shameful, Flagellation for Slaves. In the Eleventh of Elizabeth [i.e., 1569], one Cartwright brought a Slave from Russia, and would scourge him, for which he was questioned; and it was resolved, That England was too pure an Air for Slaves to breath in. And indeed it was often resolved, even in Star-Chamber, That no Gentleman was to be whipt for any offence whatsoever; and his whipping was too severe.\" It is reported that the court held that the man must be freed, and it is often said that the court held \"that England was too pure an air for a slave to breathe in.\"\n\nSubsequent citations of the effect of the case was actually to impose limits on the physical punishment on slaves, rather than to express comment on legality of slavery generally. In the case of John Lilburne in 1649, the defendant's counsel relied upon \"Cartwright's case\" to show that the severity of a whipping received by Lilburne exceeded that permitted by law. In none of subsequent common law cases prior to Somersett's case was Cartwright's case cited as authority for the proposition that slavery was unlawful. However, those disputes predominantly concerned disputes between slave merchants (the notable exception being \"Shanley v Harvey\", as to which see below), for whom it would have been commercially unwise to plead that slavery was unlawful.\n\nIt is inferred that, because he was from Russia, Cartwright's slave was white, and probably a Christian, although this is not recorded. However, it is possible that he was African, as, although they were uncommon, African slaves in Russia were not unknown prior to the emergence of the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nHowever, the initial opposition of the courts of England to the status of slavery began to change with the rising importance of the African slave trade. An extensive traffic in black slaves from Africa began in the 17th century, primarily to supply labour for the sugar and tobacco plantations in British colonies abroad. In 1660, what became the Royal African Company was chartered by the King with a monopoly in the trade, and in 1698, an act of parliament opened the trade to all English subjects. In the Caribbean, Barbados became an English Colony in 1624 and Jamaica in 1655. These and other Caribbean colonies became the center of wealth and the focus of the slave trade for the growing English empire. English merchants were prominent in the slave trade, and in commercial disputes slavery soon presented the English courts with novel legal questions. Under the \"lex mercatoria\" slaves were treated as chattels, with few if any rights, but the English courts did not always recognise mercantile custom as law. The question arose in English courts because personal actions could be laid in England even if the cause of action arose abroad. In the 18th century, owners in England would advertise their sales of African slaves and also for the return of runaway slaves. \n\nInitially, the courts held that an action for trover would lie for blacks, as if they were chattels, but this was reasoned on the grounds that they were infidels rather than slaves, and lacked the rights enjoyed by Christians; (reasoning which would later find echoes in the U.S. case of \"Dred Scott v. Sandford\" 60 U.S. (19 How.) 393 (1857)) but Judge Holt was to later reject this analysis, and also denied the possibility of bringing an \"assumpsit\" on the sale of a negro in England: \"as soon as a negro comes to England he is free; one may be a villein in England, but not a slave.\" However, this comment was construed as more of an admonition against careless pleading rather than a reproach to slave dealers. The plaintiff was felt to have simply overdone the fictions, and was allowed to amend his declaration to allege the sale of a slave in the royal colony of Virginia, where slavery was recognised by colonial law, and the English courts would recognise and enforce the rights arising under Virginian law. Slaves were regularly bought and sold on the Liverpool and London markets, and actions on contract concerning slaves were common in the 18th century without any serious suggestion that they were void for illegality. Even the statement made in the various trover decisions appear to have been directed to good pleading rather than the legality of slavery: a pleading which averred the conversion of a \"negro\" rather than a \"slave\" would fail, as there was no inherent reason why a black person should not be a free man. In 1706 Chief Justice Holt refused an action for trover in relation to a slave holding that no man could have property in another, but held that an alternative action, trespass \"quare captivum suum cepit\", would be available, which was actually felt to have strengthened the legal position of slaveowners.\n\nUltimately the comments made in Holt's decisions had little long-term effect. In 1700 there was no extensive use of slave labour in England as there was in the colonies. African servants were common as status symbols, but their treatment was not comparable to that of plantation slaves in the colonies. The legal problems that were most likely to arise in England were if a slave were to escape in transit, or if a slave-owner from the colonies brought over a slave and expected to continue exercising his power to prevent the slave from leaving his service. Increasing numbers of slaves were indeed brought into England in the 18th century, and this may help to explain the growing awareness of the problems presented by the existence of slavery. Quite apart from the moral considerations, there was an obvious conflict between the mercantile custom of recognizing property in slaves and the English tradition of freedom protected by \"habeas corpus\". If the courts acknowledged the property which was generally assumed to exist in slaves in the colonies, how would such property rights be treated if a slave was subsequently brought to England?\n\nHowever, the decisions of Holt had caused sufficient consternation as to the legal status of slaves that some slave owners sought clarity of the law. In 1729 various slave owners obtained the Yorke–Talbot slavery opinion made by the Crown's principal law officers at one of the Inns of Court. The law officers opined that under English law (i) a slave's status did not change when he came to England, (ii) a slave could be compelled to return to the colonies from England, and (iii) that baptism would not manumit a slave. The opinion cited no authorities, and set out no legal rationale for the views expressed in it, but it was widely published and relied upon. One of the authors of the opinion, Lord Hardwicke (although at the time he was only known as Philip Yorke), subsequently endorsed the views expressed in the opinion (although not expressly referring to it) whilst sitting in judicial capacity in \"Pearne v Lisle\" (1749) Amb 75, 27 ER 47. The case revolved around title to fourteen slaves who were in Antigua, and involved a number of technical points as to colonial law. But Lord Hardwicke held that slavery was not contrary to English law, and that as the common law of England applied at the time to Antigua, that slavery was not unlawful in Antigua.\n\nAt this time the cases in which the English courts had recognised property in slaves had arisen from purely commercial disputes and did not establish any rights exercisable as against the slaves themselves, if the slave was within the jurisdiction. As with villeins centuries before, the analogy with chattels (as between putative owners) failed to answer the leading question whether slaves could establish their freedom by bringing suit in the courts (as between slave and owner). The writ \"de homine replegiando\" was outmoded, and so the usual eighteenth-century question was whether \"habeas corpus\" lay to free slaves from captivity. Sir William Blackstone was in no doubt that \"the spirit of liberty is so deeply ingrained in our constitution\" that a slave, the moment he lands in England, is free. Other prominent lawyers, such as Lord Hardwicke and Lord Mansfield, felt that it was better to recognise slavery, and to impose regulation on the slave trade rather than to withdraw from it, since less enlightened nations would reap the benefits of abolition and slaves would suffer the consequences. The \"infidel\" argument for maintaining African slaves as chattels was abandoned in the middle of the 18th century, since by then many slaves had been converted to Christianity without gaining \"de facto\" freedom; and legal justifications for slave ownership were now sought by analogy with the old law of villeinage.\n\nIn \"Shanley v Harvey\" (1763) 2 Eden 126, a claim was instituted by Shanley as administrator of the estate of his deceased niece.\n\nShanley had brought Harvey as a child slave, to England, 12 years earlier and had given him to his niece. She had him baptised and had changed his name. She became very ill and about an hour before her death, she gave Harvey about £800 in cash (a substantial sum in those days), asked him to pay the butcher's bill and to make good use of the money. After her death, Shanley brought an action against Harvey to recover the money.\n\nLord Henley, the Lord Chancellor, dismissed the action, with costs against Shanley. In his judgment he held that as soon as a person set foot on English soil, he or she became free and that a \"negro\" might maintain an action against his or her master for ill usage, together with an application for \"habeas corpus\" if detained. However, such comments were not necessary for the decision in the case, and in law were only \"obiter dictum\" and not binding on subsequent courts.\n\nOne of the few non-commercial disputes relating to slavery arose in \"R v Stapylton\" (1771, unreported) in which Lord Mansfield sat. Stapylton was charged after attempting to forcibly deport his purported slave, Thomas Lewis. Stapylton's defence rested on the basis that as Lewis was his slave, his actions were lawful.\n\nLord Mansfield had the opportunity to use a legal procedure at the time in criminal cases referred to as the Twelve Judges to determine points of law (which were not for the jury) in criminal matters. However, he shied away from doing so, and sought (unsuccessfully) to dissuade the parties from using the legality of slavery as the basis of the defence.\n\nIn the end Mansfield directed the jury that they should presume Lewis was a free man, unless Stapylton was able to prove otherwise. He further directed the jury that unless they found that Stapylton was the legal owner of Lewis \"you will find the Defendant guilty\". Lewis was permitted to testify. The jury convicted. However, in the course of his summing up, Lord Mansfield was careful to say \"whether they [slave owners] have this kind of property or not in England has never been solemnly determined.\"\n\nThe question of a slave's rights as against his putative master (as opposed to merchant's rights as against each other) eventually came before Lord Mansfield and the King's Bench in 1771. A writ of \"habeas corpus\" had been issued to secure the release of James Somersett, a negro confined in irons on board a ship arrived in the Thames from Virginia, bound for Jamaica, and the return stated that he was a slave under the law of Virginia. Lord Mansfield was anxious to avoid the issue principle, and pressed the parties to settle; but the case was taken up by the West India merchants, who wanted to know whether slaves were a safe investment, and by abolitionists such as Granville Sharp, so that it became a \"cause célèbre\". The law of villeinage was turned by Somersett's counsel into an argument against slavery, since the kind of proof that was required to establish villein status was not available in claiming slaves. After arguments closed it still took Lord Mansfield 3 agonising months before he delivered his judgment, which in the end, was short and delivered orally only. In the event the court ordered in 1772 that \"the black must be discharged\". But Lord Mansfield, while stating that slavery was \"odious\", did not decide that slavery was unlawful, nor even that Somersett was no longer a slave, confining himself to the narrow point that a slave could not be made to leave England against his will. The decision also left aside the problem in the conflict of laws; if a person was a slave by law of his domicile, which was not disputed in the case of Somersett, a mere temporary presence in England would not set him free permanently, even for the purpose of English law. Several contract cases concerning overseas slaves in fact came before Lord Mansfield, and counsel did not even think it worth arguing that the contracts were illegal or contrary to public policy.\n\nLord Mansfield subsequently commented upon his decision in the \"Somersett\" case in \"R v Inhabitants of Thames Ditton\" (1785) The official report notes that Mansfield expressed the view during counsel's argument that his ruling in the Somerset case decided only that a slave could not be forcibly removed from England against his will: \"The determinations go no further than that the master cannot be force compel him to go out of the kingdom.\" In \"Thames Ditton\" a black woman by the name of Charlotte Howe had been brought to England as a slave by one Captain Howe. After Captain Howe died Charlotte sought poor relief from the Parish of Thames Ditton. Mansfield stated that the \"Somersett\" case had only determined that a master could not force a slave to leave England, much as in earlier times a master could not forcibly remove his villein. He ruled that Charlotte was not entitled to relief under Poor Laws because relief was dependent on having been \"hired\", and this did not relate to slaves.\n\nIn 1777 after the Mansfield decision in England, a servant in Scotland, Joseph Knight, sought the freedom to leave the employment of John Wedderburn of Ballendean, and claimed in his pleadings that the very act of landing in Scotland freed him from perpetual servitude, as slavery was not recognised in Scotland (records do not now record whether this was on the basis of the Mansfield decision). Many years earlier Knight had been purchased by Wedderburn in Jamaica from a slave trader, although his status at the time of the trial was the subject of disagreement (Knight averred that Wedderburn wished to take him back to Jamaica to sell him on as a slave in the colonies, which Wedderburn denied).\n\nThe case caused disagreement in the courts as Wedderburn, referred to through the document as \"The Complainer\", insisted that slavery and perpetual servitude were different states. He argued that in Scots law Knight, even though he was not recognised as a slave, was still bound to provide perpetual service in the same manner as an indentured servant or an apprenticed artisan. The Justices of the Peace in Perth, at first instance, found in favour of Wedderburn. However, when Knight then appealed to the Sheriff Deputy the first instance decision was then overturned. Wedderburn then made a further appeal to the Lords of Council and Session. The Court of Session emphatically rejected Wedderburn's appeal, ruling that \"the dominion assumed over this Negro, under the law of Jamaica, being unjust, could not be supported in this country to any extent: That, therefore, the defender had no right to the Negro’s service for any space of time, nor to send him out of the country against his consent: That the Negro was likewise protected under the act 1701, c.6. from being sent out of the country against his consent.\"\n\nEvidence presented by both sides in the case survives in the National Archives of Scotland (reference CS235/K/2/2).\n\nIn late November or early December 1781 the captain and crew of the English slave ship, \"Zong\", threw various African slaves into the sea off the island of Hispaniola, ostensibly to save the lives of the remaining slaves as provisions were short. The shipowners then sought to claim under policies of insurance, arguing that jettisoning the cargo constituted a recoverable loss, even though it necessarily resulted in the murder of the slaves. In the first round of legal proceedings a jury initially held for the shipowners and upheld the claim. On a subsequent application to set that judgment aside, Lord Mansfield indicated that the jury in the initial trial \"had no doubt (though it shocks one very much) that the Case of Slaves was the same as if Horses had been thrown over board ... \". That finding was overturned and fresh trial ordered, but in both legal actions it was accepted in principle by the court that the killing of the negro slaves was permissible, and did not thereby invalidate the insurance by virtue of being an unlawful act. Shortly afterwards provisions in the Slave Trade Act 1788 made it unlawful to insure against similar losses of slaves.\n\nIn 1811, Arthur Hodge became the first (and only) British subject ever to stand trial for the murder of a slave. As part of his defence, Hodge argued that \"A Negro being property, it was no greater offense for his master to kill him than it would be to kill his dog,\" but the court did not accept the submission, and point was dismissed summarily. Counsel for the prosecution also obliquely referred to the Amelioration Act 1798 passed by the Legislature of the Leeward Islands, which applied in the British Virgin Islands. That Act provided for penalties for slave owners who inflicted cruel or unusual punishments on their slaves, but it only provides for fines, and does not expressly indicate that a slave owner could be guilty of a greater crime such as murder or another offence against the person.\n\nThe trial took place under English common law in British Virgin Islands. However, there was no appeal (Hodge was executed a mere eight days after the jury handed down their verdict). The jury (composed largely of slave owners) actually recommended mercy, but the court nonetheless sentenced Hodge to death, and so the directions of the trial judge are not treated by commentators as an authoritative precedent.\n\nThe closest thing to an explicit judicial statement in England that \"positive law\" would be required to make slavery lawful appears in the judgment of Mr. Justice Best in \"Forbes v Cochrane\" in 1824. He said, \"There is no statute recognising slavery which operates in that part of the British empire in which we are now called upon to administer justice.\" He described the \"Somerset\" case as entitling a slave in England to discharge (from that status), and rendering any person attempting to force him back into slavery as guilty of trespass. But not all reports of the case agree.\n\nThe common law, ultimately, would go no further. But the decision of 1772 in James Somersett's case was widely misunderstood as freeing slaves in England, and whilst not legally accurate, this perception was fuelled by the growing abolitionist movement, notwithstanding this was scarcely an accurate reflection of the decision. Slavery did not, like villeinage, die naturally from adverse public opinion, because vested mercantile interests were too valuable. In 1788 the Slave Trade Act 1788 was passed, partly in response to the \"Zong\" Massacre to ameliorate the conditions under which slaves might be transported (the Act would be renewed several times before being made permanent in 1799). In 1792 the House of Commons voted in favour of \"gradual\" abolition, and in 1807 parliament outlawed the African slave trade by legislation. This prevented British merchants exporting any more people from Africa, but it did not alter the status of the several million existing slaves, and the courts continued to recognise colonial slavery. The abolitionists therefore turned their attention to the emancipation of West Indian slaves. Legally, this was difficult to achieve, since it required the compulsory divesting of private property; but it was finally done in 1833, at a cost of £20 million paid from public funds in compensation to slave owners. With no sense of irony, whilst slave owners were compensated for their loss, the freed slaves themselves received no compensation for their forced labour. From 1 August 1834, all slaves in the British colonies were \"absolutely and forever manumitted.\"\n\nIn British colonies, it was widely assumed that positive law was needed to make slavery lawful, and various royal colonies passed laws to this effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25466546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25466546", "title": "State Central Library, Hyderabad", "text": "State Central Library, Hyderabad\n\nThe State Central Library Hyderabad, () known as the State Central Library (SCL) earlier known as Asafia Library, is a public library in Hyderabad, Telangana. The building was constructed in 1891 with the help of chief engineer of Nizam - Nawab Khan Bahadur Mirza Akbar Baig. It is one of the most imposing structures in the city and was granted heritage status in 1998 by INTACH, Hyderabad.\n\nThe library is located at Afzal Gunj on the bank of the River Musi. It houses 500,000 books and magazines including some rare Palm-leaf manuscripts. This library is the apex of the state's library system.\n\nThe State Central Library began in 1891 due to the efforts of Moulvi Syed Hussain Bilgrami (Nawab Imadul Mulk Bahadur), whose personal library formed the institution's initial core.\n\nThe library building has an area of 72,247 square yards and was built under the supervision of architect, Aziz Ali. The foundation stone was laid in January 1932 by Prince Mir Osman Ali Khan. At the construction's completion, the Asafia Library shifted to the new building in 1936 to mark Nizam VII's silver jubilee. The architecture is reminiscent of a palace with its huge halls and high ceilings.\n\nIn 1941, the Asafia State Library celebrated its Golden Jubilee. When the Hyderabad Public Libraries Act became law in 1955, Asafia State Library was declared as the State Central library for the Hyderabad State.\n\n\nThe Library has an excellent collection of around five hundred thousand books published since the early 19th century, including books in English, Hindi, Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Marathi, Sanskrit, Urdu, Arabic and Persian. Nearly 17,000 manuscripts dating to the fifth and sixth centuries were transferred to the Telangana Oriental Manuscripts Library in 1967.\n\nHyderabad Samachara monthly newspaper published by HEH in 1941.\n\nThe first phase of computerisation and networking in libraries through e-Grandhalaya software developed by National Informatics Centre has begun. The project will begin on an experimental basis in Warangal and Hyderabad. Over 40,000 books have already been digitised at SCL with the help of Carnegie Mellon University's Universal Online Library Projects. The digitised works include titles in Hindi, English, Telugu, Urdu and Persian. Carnegie Mellon University provides the funding for this project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4422271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4422271", "title": "Syracuse Journal of International Law and Commerce", "text": "Syracuse Journal of International Law and Commerce\n\nFirst published in 1972, the Syracuse Journal of International Law and Commerce is one of the oldest student-edited international law reviews in the United States. The Journal has aa diverse subscription base, including Europe, Asia, and Africa.\n\nThe journal publishes two editions annually. The editions consist of scholarly works on any number of international law topics submitted by professors, academics, and practicing attorneys. Published in each edition are three to four articles by professionals in the field, and two student notes. They may also contain a survey article and book review.\n\nStudents are selected for journal membership based on academic ranking or success in an open writing competition held at the conclusion of the first year. Members must demonstrate mastery of legal research and writing skills by submitting scholarly articles of publishable quality.\n\n"}
{"id": "4857786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4857786", "title": "The Law that Never Was", "text": "The Law that Never Was\n\nThe Law That Never Was: The Fraud of the 16th Amendment and Personal Income Tax is a 1985 book by William J. Benson and Martin J. \"Red\" Beckman which claims that the Sixteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, commonly known as the income tax amendment, was never properly ratified. In 2007, and again in 2009, Benson's contentions were ruled to be fraudulent.\n\nUnder Article V of the U.S. Constitution, an amendment proposed by Congress must be ratified by three-fourths of the states to become part of the Constitution. The Article permits Congress to specify, for each amendment, whether the ratification must be by each state's legislature or by a constitutional convention in each state; for the Sixteenth Amendment, Congress specified ratification by the legislatures. There were 48 states in the Union in 1913 — the year when the Sixteenth Amendment was finally ratified — which meant that the Amendment required ratification by the legislatures of 36 states to become effective. In February 1913, Secretary of State Philander C. Knox issued a proclamation that 38 states had ratified the amendment. (According to Congressional analysis, a total of 42 states had ratified the amendment as of 1992.)\n\nPrior to Benson, the \"non-ratification\" argument was presented in a court of law by James Walter Scott in the 1975 case of \"United States v. Scott\", some sixty-two years after the ratification. Scott's argument was to no avail; he was convicted of willful failure to file federal income tax returns for the years 1969 through 1972, and the conviction was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. In a 1977 case involving a tax protester named Bob Tammen, a U.S. District Court noted that Tammen was involved with a group called \"United Tax Action Patriots,\" which took the position \"that the Sixteenth Amendment was improperly passed and therefore invalid...\" However, the specific issue of the validity of the ratification was neither presented to nor decided by the court.\n\nWilliam Benson's book relates how, in 1984, nine years after the Scott case and seventy-one years after the ratification was proclaimed, Benson began a research project to investigate the ratification process by traveling to the National Archives and the capitols of various New England states to review documents relating to the ratification of the Amendment.\n\nBenson found variations in wording, punctuation, capitalization, and pluralization in the language of the Amendment as ratified by many states. He used the changes as part of the basis for his contention that those states had not properly ratified the Amendment. Benson further claimed to have found documents suggesting that some states that had been certified as having ratified the Amendment never voted to ratify it, or voted against ratification. Benson claimed that no states, or only a few states (variously reported as two states or four states), had properly ratified the Amendment.\n\nIn his book, Benson made the following claims:\n\n\nAdditionally, Benson asserted that:\n\n\nBenson asserted that the Oklahoma State Legislature changed the wording of the amendment they approved so that it meant the opposite of the original amendment as it was submitted to the States by Congress, but that Secretary Knox counted Oklahoma as having approved the amendment.\n\nBenson also asserted, as an example of a state's violation of its own Constitution, laws, or procedural rules, the claim that the Tennessee State Constitution prohibited the legislature from acting on any proposed amendment to the U.S. Constitution submitted by Congress until after the next state legislative elections. According to Benson, the Tennessee legislature acted on the proposed 16th amendment the same month it was received (prior to any new state legislative elections).\n\nThe Benson book was published in 1985. The earliest reported court cases where the book was mentioned appear to be \"United States v. House\" and \"United States v. Wojtas\". Benson testified unsuccessfully in the \"House\" case. In the latter case, defendant Wayne Wojtas was unsuccessful in his attempt to use Benson's theory to have his indictment for failure to file federal tax returns dismissed. In the case the judge ruled that Benson's evidence was inadmissible, stating that:\n\nWojtas was convicted, sentenced to prison, and released in August 1986.\n\nBenson's claim was also rejected in \"Miller v. United States\". The court stated, \"We find it hard to understand why the long and unbroken line of cases upholding the constitutionality of the Sixteenth Amendment generally, \"Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad Company\" ... and those specifically rejecting the argument advanced in \"The Law That Never Was\", have not persuaded Miller and his compatriots to seek a more effective forum for airing their attack on the federal income tax structure.\" The court then sanctioned the litigants for advancing a \"patently frivolous\" position.\n\nSimilar \"Sixteenth Amendment arguments\" have been uniformly rejected by the courts in other cases including \"United States v. Thomas\". In \"Thomas\" the court, in affirming the tax convictions of Kenneth L. Thomas, referred to Benson's book and noted that the errors found by Benson had already been investigated by Secretary of State Knox at the time of ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment, and had been determined to be insignificant. (See Tax protester constitutional arguments.)\n\nArguments that the Sixteenth Amendment was not properly ratified were also rejected in \"Sisk v. Commissioner\"; \"United States v. Sitka\"; and \"United States v. Stahl\". The non-ratification argument has also been deemed legally frivolous in \"Brown v. Commissioner\" and \"Lysiak v. Commissioner\".\n\nThe argument that the Sixteenth Amendment was not ratified, and variations of this argument, have been officially identified as legally frivolous federal income tax return positions for purposes of the $5,000 frivolous tax return penalty imposed under Internal Revenue Code section 6702(a).\n\nIn \"United States v. Benson\", a criminal case, Benson himself raised the Sixteenth Amendment argument, which was rejected by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. In this phase of the case, his conviction for tax evasion and willful failure to file tax returns was overturned on other grounds and the case was remanded to the trial court.\n\nUpon retrial, Benson was again convicted of tax evasion and willful failure to file tax returns, and his conviction was upheld on appeal. The conduct for which he was convicted involved over $100,000 of income he did not report on Federal income tax returns. He was sentenced to four years in prison and five years of probation.\n\nBenson continued to promote his views. Until early 2008, Benson included verbiage on his web sitein quotation marksthat he attributed to the text of the U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Brushaber v. Union Pacific Railroad\", an early case interpreting the Amendment. He quoted the Court as saying that the Sixteenth Amendment \"did not change the constitutional limitations which forbid any direct taxation of individuals.\" The text of the Court's decision does not contain any such quotation. No U.S. Federal court has ever ruled that any provision of the United States Constitution forbids any direct taxation of individuals. Benson apparently removed the material after a court order was issued regarding his materials.\n\nUntil January 2008, Benson's web site also stated: \"After serving time in federal prison for not paying his United States income taxes, Bill Benson still does not pay income taxes and yet our federal government chooses not to arrest him. Why? Because \"now he can use this book\", which he has written : 'THE LAW THAT NEVER WAS' in his defense.\" Similarly, as late as the year 2007, Benson claimed, in marketing the \"Reliance Defense Package\" that included his non-ratification argument, that \"[t]o date, the IRS has steadfastly refused to prosecute any person standing on this defense. Why do they do this? Because they know they cannot win!!\" The book was actually published several years before Benson's arrest and, as noted above, Benson himself actually was convicted despite using the defense.\n\nIn one of Benson's cases, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit stated:\n\nBenson argues that he did not need to file tax returns or pay income taxes because the Sixteenth Amendment was not properly ratified. [...] The district court denied Benson's request for an evidentiary hearing on this issue and refused to hear any Sixteenth Amendment argument.<br><br>\n\nAs the district court noted, we have repeatedly rejected the claim that the Sixteenth Amendment was improperly ratified. [...] One would think this repeated rejection of Benson's Sixteenth Amendment argument would put the matter to rest [...] Benson is the co-author of The Law That Never Was, a book that purports to \"review the documents concerning the states' ratification of the Sixteenth Amendment\" and to show \"that only four states ratified the Sixteenth Amendment [and that] the official promulgation of the amendment by Secretary of State Knox in 1913 is therefore void.\" [...] Benson insists that as the co-author of The Law That Never Was, and the man who actually reviewed the state documents \"proving\" improper ratification, he is uniquely qualified to make the \"exceptionally strong showing\" we spoke of in Foster. Because of this, Benson insists, the district court should have at least granted him an evidentiary hearing on the Sixteenth Amendment issue.<br><br>\n\nBenson is wrong. In Thomas, we specifically examined the arguments made in The Law That Never Was, and concluded that \"Benson ... did not discover anything.\" We concluded that Secretary Knox's declaration that sufficient states had ratified the Sixteenth Amendment was conclusive, and that \"Secretary Knox's decision is now beyond review.\" [...] It necessarily follows that the district court correctly refused to hold an evidentiary hearing; no hearing is necessary to consider an issue that is \"beyond review.\"\n\nOn December 17, 2007, the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois ruled that Benson's \"Reliance Defense Package\" (including Benson's Sixteenth Amendment non-ratification argument), which Benson sold to customers via the internet, constituted a \"fraud perpetrated by Benson\" that had \"caused needless confusion and a waste of the customers' and the IRS' time and resources.\"\n\nThe court stated: \"Benson has failed to point to evidence that would create a genuinely disputed fact regarding whether the Sixteenth Amendment was properly ratified or whether United States Citizens are legally obligated to pay federal taxes. Also, as is indicated above, Benson is precluded in this action from taking the position that the Sixteenth Amendment was not properly ratified.\" The court stated that \"the undisputed evidence shows that Benson had actual knowledge that the information in the Reliance Defense Package was false or fraudulent.\" The court also stated: \"Benson falsely tells customers that if they purchase and use his products they will be shielded from criminal prosecution for violating the internal revenue laws. Purchasers of the 'Reliance Defense Package' receive a letter signed by Benson that falsely represents that the purchaser can rely on Benson's research to conclude that the Sixteenth Amendment was not ratified, and that the purchaser is thereby not required to file federal income tax returns or pay federal income or social security taxes to the United States.\" The court ruled that \"Benson's position has no merit and he has used his fraudulent tax advice to deceive other citizens and profit from it\" in violation of .\n\nThe court granted an injunction under prohibiting Benson from promoting the theories in Benson's \"Reliance Defense Package,\" which the court referred to as \"false and fraudulent advice concerning the payment of federal taxes.\" The court injunction requires that Benson send his customers copies of the order, and that he post the order on his website. As of January 2008 Benson had modified his web site and posted a copy of the court order.\n\nBenson appealed the decision of the District Court. Benson argued that prohibiting him from selling his \"Reliance Defense Package\" and his \"16th Amendment Reliance Package\" was a violation of his First Amendment Rights. The Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit rejected that argument in a ruling on April 6, 2009. The Court ruled that although Benson could sell his book, \"The Law that Never Was\", the court order prohibiting him from selling his \"Reliance Defense Package\" and his \"16th Amendment Reliance Package\" did not violate his First Amendment Right, as the sale of those two items constituted \"false commercial speech.\"\n\nThe Court of Appeals stated:\n\nThe Court of Appeals also ruled that the government could obtain a ruling ordering Benson to turn his customer list over to the government. Benson petitioned the United States Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court denied his petition in November 2009.\n\nFollowers of Benson who have been convicted of federal tax crimes include Kenneth L. Thomas and Wayne Wojtas (see above). Additionally, on March 6, 2008, the United States Attorney's office in Grand Rapids, Michigan announced that Charles E. Hughes of Dansville, Michigan had been convicted of four counts of tax evasion. Hughes had purchased Benson's \"16th Amendment Reliance Defense Package\" for $3,500, and had used the materials. The U.S. Attorney's office stated:\n\nHughes was sentenced to 15 months in federal prison, and was incarcerated at Federal Correctional Institution at Ashland, Kentucky. He served his time and was released from prison in May 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9728388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9728388", "title": "Thinset", "text": "Thinset\n\nThinset (also called thinset mortar, thinset cement, dryset mortar, or drybond mortar) is an adhesive mortar made of cement, fine sand and a water retaining agent such as an alkyl derivative of cellulose. It is usually used to attach tile or stone to surfaces such as cement or concrete. It is particularly popular among mosaicists for outdoor applications \n\n"}
{"id": "648521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=648521", "title": "Tipstaff", "text": "Tipstaff\n\nThe Tipstaff is an officer of a court or, in some countries, a law clerk to a judge. The duties of the position vary from country to country. It is also the name of a symbolic rod, which represents the authority of the tipstaff or other officials such as senior police officers.\n\nThe office of the Tipstaff is thought to have been created in the 14th century. One of the earliest records of the Tipstaff was mentioned in 1570: \"The Knight Marshall with all hys tippe staues\". It is a position of both law enforcement and ceremonial duties.\n\nAn earlier mention of tipstaff is in 1555 when the Rev'd Dr Rowland Taylor was burned at the stake during the reign of Queen Mary I for his religious views that were contrary to those of the Lord Chancellor Gardiner. In Foxe's Book of Martyrs it states that Dr Taylor would have spoken to the people but as soon as he opened his mouth the yeoman of the guard thrust a tipstaff into his mouth, and would in no wise permit him to speak. This is also quoted in the book \"Five English Reformers\" by J. C. Ryle.\n\nThe name originates from the early law enforcement officers who would apprehend a person intended for arrest by enforcing their duty, if necessary, with a tipped staff or stave. The staff was made of wood or metal or both, topped with a crown. The crown, which unscrewed, could be removed to reveal inside the hollow staff a warrant appointing the holder to his position of authority. Some staffs were definitely a means of protection and this is where the present day policeman's baton originates.\n\nExamples remain at the Royal Courts of Justice and the Metropolitan Police museum in London and vary depending on the type and rank of officer. These tipstaves were first carried in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. When detectives (in plain clothes) were first authorised the tipstaves issued to plain clothes officers from 1867 were re-issued in 1870 engraved \"Metropolitan Police officer in plain clothes\".\n\nThe staff kept at the Royal Courts of Justice is now only used on ceremonial occasions. It is 12 inches in length and made of ebony decorated with a silver crown and three bands of silver engraved with the Royal Arms at the top. Around the middle is inscribed \"AMOS HAWKINS, TIPSTAFF COURTS OF CHANCERY\" and around the bottom is inscribed \"Appointed 14th January, 1884, by the Rt. Hon. The Earl of Selborne, L.C.” with another coats of Royal Arms. The date was that on which this staff was first used, soon after the Law Courts were opened. Prior to 1884, each Tipstaff had his own staff, which he retained when he retired.\nThe emblem of two crossed tipstaves (tipstaffs) within a wreath appears on the rank insignia of senior police officers in several Commonwealth countries, including the United Kingdom and Australia. In Canada, the emblem is used for the most senior officers of the Ontario Provincial Police and Royal Newfoundland Constabulary.\n\nIn Australia, a tipstaff is roughly equivalent to a law clerk in the United States. The term is used principally in the Supreme Court of New South Wales.\n\nThere are currently two Tipstaves in England and Wales: one is an officer of the Royal Borough of Kingston and the other an officer of the High Court of England and Wales, appointed under section 27 of the Courts Act 1971. It is the latter to which this section refers.\n\nThe High Court Tipstaff may appoint three assistants and can call on any constable, bailiff or member of the public to assist in carrying out their duties. Their jurisdiction extends throughout England and Wales. They are authorised to force entry if necessary, and will have a police officer present to prevent breach of the peace. The relevant territorial police force is informed of arrests.\n\nSometimes a local bailiff or police will detain a person in custody until the Tipstaff arrives to collect him and take him to court or prison. Pentonville Prison (for civil offenders) is obliged to take into custody‚ no matter what the circumstances‚ anybody taken there by the Tipstaff. Tipstaff may make the same demands of the custody suite within the Royal Courts of Justice itself, and they are obliged to take into custody any individual he brings there.\n\nThe Tipstaff heads a procession of the Lord Chancellor and judges at the start of the legal year‚ preceding them with his staff as a symbol of authority and law enforcement. They also lead the Lord Mayor from his golden coach to the Lord Chief Justice's Court for the \"swearing in\" of the Lord Mayor‚ afterwards attending the Lord Mayor's Banquet, having led the Lord Chancellor into the Guildhall. The black uniform‚ only worn on ceremonial occasions‚ is based on that of a Victorian police inspector. They wear a black hat with gold braid trimmings and jacket with silver buttons‚ a wing collar with a white bow tie and white gloves. The Tipstaff is the only person authorised to make an arrest within the precincts of the Royal Courts of Justice.\n\nEvery applicable order made in the High Court is addressed to the Tipstaff: \"I hereby command you the Tipstaff and your assistants in Her Majesty's name to take and safely convey and deliver the said ... to the Governor of Her Majesty's Prison ...\"(as in the case of making an arrest). The majority of their work involves taking children into custody (i.e. a place of safety)‚ including cases of child abduction abroad.\n\nIn child abduction cases, there may be a 'seek and locate' order backed by a bench warrant ordering any person with knowledge of the child to give that information to the Tipstaff or to his deputy or assistants. Related orders may require the alleged abductor to hand his or her passport and other travel documents to the Tipstaff, and order the Tipstaff to take the child and deliver him/her to a designated place. There may also be a 'port alert' executed by the Tipstaff, to help prevent the child being taken abroad.\n\nIn the case of children who have been declared a ward of court i.e. where the court is acting in loco parentis, the Tipstaff has a role in ensuring that those children are delivered to the locations specified by the court.\n\nTipstaffs and Court Criers in Northern Ireland have no enforcement role, but act as personal assistants to High Court and County Court judges.\n\nIn some states of the United States, the Tipstaff is called a Tipstave and is responsible for courtroom decorum. His position is similar to that of a bailiff. The Civil Division of the Municipal Court of Philadelphia employs Tipstaves as clerks to the court. The Criminal Trial Division employs Tipstaves in positions commonly referred to as Court officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32732460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32732460", "title": "Transport Act 1983", "text": "Transport Act 1983\n\nThe Transport Act 1983 (the Act) was the main statute establishing government transport organisations and regulating land transport activities in the State of Victoria, Australia for 27 years from mid-1983 to mid-2010. The Act was used as the vehicle for changes to transport organisational arrangements and transport regulation activities pursued by Victorian governments over that period.\n\nThe Transport Act received the royal assent on 23 June 1983 and commenced on 1 July of that year. The Act remained as Victoria's principal transport statute until mid-2010 when that position was taken by a new statute, the Transport Integration Act 2010. It was renamed as the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983, a title which it retains to this day.\n\nThe Transport Act was initially passed by the Victorian Parliament as a major reform measure particularly in relation to institutional arrangements in the transport portfolio. The Act abolished a range of long established transport agencies including the Victorian Railways, the Melbourne and Metropolitan Tramways Board and the Country Roads Board. In their place a range of new organisations including the State Transport Authority, the Metropolitan Transit Authority, the Road Construction Authority and the Road Traffic Authority were established. The Transport Act also established the Ministry of Transport as the prime coordinating agency for transport in Victoria.\n\nThe Transport Act also consolidated much of the suite of Victorian land transport statutes containing regulatory controls. The Act initially contained a suite of provisions affecting trains and trams, buses, taxis and hire cars and tow trucks. Few of these provisions remain today in the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act. The main schemes which remain relate to taxi and hire car regulation, the only substantial area of Victorian transport regulation not to be contained in a discrete statute, and provisions relating to compliance and enforcement in safety areas and affecting public transport ticketing and conduct.\n\nThe major organisational changes brought about by the Transport Act were themselves the subject of major changes in the period after 1983.\n\nIn 1989, the Victorian Parliament passed a new statute, the Transport (Amendment) Act, which made major adjustments to the initial organisational changes made by the Transport Act in 1983. The new Act merged the State Transport Authority and the Metropolitan Transit Authority to establish a new organisation, the Public Transport Corporation, to manage train, tram and bus operations in metropolitan and regional areas of Victoria. The Transport (Amendment) Act also merged the Road Construction Authority and the Road Traffic Authority to create the Roads Corporation or VicRoads to manage the State's road network and its vehicle licensing and registration systems. The mergers took effect on 1 July 1989.\n\nOther major organisational changes occurred after 1989 including the establishment of the office of the Director of Public Transport and the abolition of the Public Transport Corporation as well as the creation of discrete and special purpose organisations such as VicTrack and V/Line.\n\nMany of the regulatory consolidations effected by the Transport Act have been reversed since the Act was initially passed. In many cases, the Victorian Parliament has acted to pass new principal statutes for subject matters previously regulated by the Transport Act, for example:\n\n\nThe Victorian Parliament passed a major new transport statute, the Transport Integration Act, in early 2010 and it commenced on 1 July of that year. The new Act took over from the Transport Act as Victoria's main transport statute and, at the same time, it stretched beyond land transport settings to cover ports and marine activities.\n\nAll Victorian transport organisations created by statute have been transferred to the Transport Integration Act including the land transport agencies previously established and empowered by the Transport Act.\n\nThe Transport Integration Act changed the name of the Transport Act 1983 to the Transport (Compliance and Miscellaneous) Act 1983. The name change took effect on 1 July 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "19197423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19197423", "title": "U.S. history of alcohol minimum purchase age by state", "text": "U.S. history of alcohol minimum purchase age by state\n\nThe alcohol laws of the United States regarding minimum age for purchase have changed over time. This history is given in the table below. Unless otherwise noted, if different alcohol categories have different minimum purchase ages, the age listed below is set at the \"lowest age given\" (e.g. if the purchase age is 18 for beer and 21 for wine or spirits, as was the case in several states, the age in the table will read as \"18\", not \"21\"). In addition, the \"purchase age\" is not necessarily the same as the minimum age for \"consumption\" of alcoholic beverages, although they have often been the same.\n\nAs one can see in the table below, there has been much volatility in the states' drinking ages since the\nrepeal of Prohibition in 1933. Shortly after the ratification of the 21st amendment in December, most states set their purchase ages at 21 since that was the voting age at the time. Most of these limits remained constant until the early 1970s. From 1969 to 1976, some 30 states lowered their purchase ages, generally to 18. This was primarily because the voting age was lowered from 21 to 18 in 1971 with the 26th amendment. Many states started to lower their minimum drinking age in response, most of this occurring in 1972 or 1973. Twelve states kept their purchase ages at 21 since repeal of Prohibition and never changed them.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1983, several states voluntarily raised their purchase ages to 19 (or, less commonly, 20 or 21), in part to combat drunk driving fatalities. In 1984, Congress passed the National Minimum Drinking Age Act, which required states to raise their ages for purchase and public possession to 21 by October 1986 or lose 10% of their federal highway funds. By mid-1988, all 50 states and the District of Columbia had raised their purchase ages to 21 (but not Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Virgin Islands, see Additional Notes below). South Dakota and Wyoming were the final two states to comply with the age 21 mandate. The current drinking age of 21 remains a point of contention among many Americans, because of it being higher than the age of majority (18 in most states) and higher than the drinking ages of most other countries. The National Minimum Drinking Age Act is also seen as a congressional sidestep of the tenth amendment. Although debates have not been highly publicized, a few states have proposed legislation to lower their drinking age, while Guam has raised its drinking age to 21 in July 2010.\n\n\n94. Citation for Wisconsin drinking law: https://www.revenue.wi.gov/Pages/FAQS/ise-atundrg.aspx\n"}
{"id": "27956385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27956385", "title": "United Nations Appeals Tribunal", "text": "United Nations Appeals Tribunal\n\nThe United Nations Appeals Tribunal (UNAT), which replaces the former United Nations Administrative Tribunal, is an appellate court, of the two-tier formal system of administration of justice in the UN.<ref name=\"62/228\"></ref> It was established by the UN General Assembly in December 2008 to review appeals against judgments rendered by the United Nations Dispute Tribunal (UNDT). UNAT, including its registry, is based in New York, and holds sessions in New York City, Geneva and Nairobi, as required by caseload. It held its first session in Geneva in 2010. The UNAT is a component of the UN's Internal Justice System, and is listed as an office, along with UNDT and the Office of the United Nations Ombudsman, under the UN secretariat. The UNAT like the UNDT, is dependent for its administrative, office, staffing, and travel needs including that of the judges on the UN secretariat.\n\nThe filing of an appeals has the effect of suspending the execution of the judgement or the contested order. For an appeal to be receivable by the Appeals Tribunal it should be: (a) pursuant to article 2 of the statute; and (b) filed within 60 calendar days of the receipt of UNDT Judgement.\n\nThe UNAT is competent to hear and pass judgement on an appeal filed against a judgement by the United Nations Dispute Tribunal when (a) UNDT Exceeded its jurisdiction or competence;(b) Failed to exercise jurisdiction vested in it; (c) Erred on a question of law;(d) Committed an error in procedure, such as to affect the decision of the case; or (e) Erred on a question of fact, resulting in a manifestly unreasonable decision. The Tribunal may \"affirm, reverse, modify or remand the judgement of the Dispute Tribunal\". The judgments of UNAT are final and binding on the parties.\n\nThe Appeals Tribunal may order one or both of the following:(a) Rescission of the contested administrative decision or... set an amount of compensation that the respondent may elect to pay as an alternative to the rescission of the contested administrative decision(b) Compensation for harm, ... which shall normally not exceed the equivalent of two years’ net base salary of the applicant. In exceptional cases it may order the payment of a higher compensation for harm\".\n\nEither party may apply to the Appeals Tribunal \"for a revision of a judgement on the basis of the discovery of a decisive fact which was, at the time the judgement was rendered, unknown to the Appeals Tribunal and to the party applying for revision.\" The application for revision is to be submitted within \"30 calendar days of the discovery of the fact and within one year of the date of the judgement.\" In addition either party may apply \"for an interpretation of the meaning or scope of the judgement.\" \n\nAppeals are required to be submitted to the Registrar electronically or otherwise on a prescribed form, accompanied by:(a) A brief that explains the legal basis of any of the five grounds for appeal set out in article 2.1 of the statute relied upon. The registrar after ensuring that the appeal complies with the laid down procedures transmit the appeal to the respondent. If the formal requirements of the article are not fulfilled, the Registrar may require the appellant to conform the appeal to the requirements of the article. The form for the appeal is available on the UN AT website.\n\nThe respondent’s answer is required to submit within 60 days of the date on which the respondent received the appeal transmitted by the Registrar, on a prescribed form, along with a brief, not exceed 15 pages, setting out legal arguments in support of the answer, along with signed original answer form and the annexes. The Registrar shall transmit a copy of the answer to the appellant.\n\nThe party answering may file a cross-appeal, the appeal within 60 days of notification of the appeal, accompanied by a brief which shall not exceed 15 pages, with the Appeals Tribunal stating the relief sought and the grounds of the cross- appeal. \n\nJudgements are given by panels of three judges are adopted by majority vote, and contain the reasons, facts and law on which they are based. The Registrar is responsible for publication of the judgements of the Appeals Tribunal on the website of the Appeal s Tribunal after they are delivered. \n\nThe UNAT tribunal has laid down that all documents are to be filed on US letter or A4 paper, should conform standard forms issued by the Appeals Tribunal, be page numbered, adhere to page limit and word count with typeface at 12 point with 1.5 line spacing, and 10 point for footnotes with single line spacing. The maximum permissible word count for each brief, including headings, footnotes and quotations, are 6,750 words for a 15-page brief, 2,250 words for a five-page brief, and 900 words for a two-page brief. Each annex to a filed document must have page numbering.\n\nUNAT which became operational on 1 July 2009 is composed of seven judges. The UNAT Judges are appointed by the General Assembly on the recommendation of the Internal Justice Council in accordance with General Assembly resolution 62/228. No two judges are of the same nationality, and due regard is given \"to geographical distribution and gender balance\". The Judges normally review appeals in three-member panels. Article 3.\n\nThe seven judges elected by the General Assembly On 3 March 2009 were:\n\nThe United Nations Appeals Tribunal Registry is located New York. It is headed by a Registrar, a P 5 level UN paid lawyer. The Registrar is assisted by one P 3 Legal Officer and two General Service Administrative Assistants. In addition the registry is supported by Legal Research and Information Technology Officers, and staff. The UNAT Registry provides technical and administrative support to the UNAT judges including by 'enforcing parties' compliance with the UNAT rules of procedure'.\n\nStatistically UN staff member have a low chances of getting favorable outcome from appeals to the UNAT. In 2013 out of 115 judgments by UNAT 99 were against appeals on UNDT judgements. Out of the 99 appeals, 61 were filed by staff members, of which an overwhelming, 72 percent (44) were rejected. In contrast out of the 38 appeals filed by the UN Secretary General against staff members, 31 or 82 percent were granted in full or in part. \n\nIn 2013, 52 staff member chose to be self-represented either because they did not have faith in Office of Staff Legal Assistance (OSLA) or OSLA was not forthcoming in assisting them through the appeal process. Only 32 staff members were extended OSLA assistance in the UNAT appeal process. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "31898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31898", "title": "United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change", "text": "United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change\n\nThe United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) is an international environmental treaty adopted on 9 May 1992 and opened for signature at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro from 3 to 14 June 1992. It then entered into force on 21 March 1994, after a sufficient number of countries had ratified it. The UNFCCC objective is to \"stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at a level that would prevent dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system\". The framework sets non binding limits on greenhouse gas emissions for individual countries and contains no enforcement mechanisms. Instead, the framework outlines how specific international treaties (called \"protocols\" or \"Agreements\") may be negotiated to specify further action towards the objective of the UNFCCC\n\nInitially, an Intergovernmental Negotiating Committee (INC) produced the text of the Framework Convention during its meeting in New York from 30 April to 9 May 1992. The UNFCCC was adopted on 9 May 1992, and opened for signature on 4 June 1992. The UNFCCC has 197 parties as of December 2015. The convention enjoys broad legitimacy, largely due to its nearly universal membership.\n\nThe parties to the convention have met annually from 1995 in Conferences of the Parties (COP) to assess progress in dealing with climate change. In 1997, the Kyoto Protocol was concluded and established legally binding obligations for developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2008–2012. The 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference produced an agreement stating that future global warming should be limited to below 2.0 °C (3.6 °F) relative to the pre-industrial level. The Protocol was amended in 2012 to encompass the period 2013–2020 in the Doha Amendment, which as of December 2015 had not entered into force. In 2015 the Paris Agreement was adopted, governing emission reductions from 2020 on through commitments of countries in Nationally Determined Contributions. The Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016.\n\nOne of the first tasks set by the UNFCCC was for signatory nations to establish national greenhouse gas inventories of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and removals, which were used to create the 1990 benchmark levels for accession of Annex I countries to the Kyoto Protocol and for the commitment of those countries to GHG reductions. Updated inventories must be submitted annually by Annex I countries.\n\n\"UNFCCC\" is also the name of the United Nations Secretariat charged with supporting the operation of the Convention, with offices in Haus Carstanjen, and the UN Campus (known as Langer Eugen) in Bonn, Germany. From 2010 to 2016 the head of the secretariat was Christiana Figueres. In July 2016, Patricia Espinosa succeeded Figueres. The Secretariat, augmented through the parallel efforts of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), aims to gain consensus through meetings and the discussion of various strategies.\n\nThe United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) was opened for signature at the 1992 United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UNCED) in Rio de Janeiro (known by its popular title, the Earth Summit). On 12 June 1992, 154 nations signed the UNFCCC, which upon ratification committed signatories' governments to reduce atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases with the goal of \"preventing dangerous anthropogenic interference with Earth's climate system\". This commitment would require substantial reductions in greenhouse gas emissions (see the later section, \"Stabilization of greenhouse gas concentrations\")\n\nArticle 3(1) of the Convention states that Parties should act to protect the climate system on the basis of \"common but differentiated responsibilities\", and that developed country Parties should \"take the lead\" in addressing climate change. Under Article 4, all Parties make general commitments to address climate change through, for example, climate change mitigation and adapting to the eventual impacts of climate change. Article 4(7) states:\n\nThe extent to which developing country Parties will effectively implement their commitments under the Convention will depend on the effective implementation by developed country Parties of their commitments under the Convention related to financial resources and transfer of technology and will take fully into account that economic and social development and poverty eradication are the first and overriding priorities of the developing country Parties.\n\nThe Framework Convention specifies the aim of developed (Annex I) Parties stabilizing their greenhouse gas emissions (carbon dioxide and other anthropogenic greenhouse gases not regulated under the Montreal Protocol) at 1990 levels, by the year 2000.\n\nAfter the signing of the UNFCCC treaty, Parties to the UNFCCC have met at conferences (\"Conferences of the Parties\" – COPs) to discuss how to achieve the treaty's aims. At the (COP-1), Parties decided that the aim of Annex I Parties stabilizing their emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000 was \"not adequate\", and further discussions at later conferences led to the Kyoto Protocol. The Kyoto Protocol sets emissions targets for developed countries which are binding under international law.\n\nThe Kyoto Protocol has had two commitment periods, the first of which lasted from 2008-2012. The second one runs from 2013-2020 and is based on the Doha Amendment to the Protocol, which has not entered into force.\n\nThe US has not ratified the Kyoto Protocol, while Canada denounced it in 2012. The Kyoto Protocol has been ratified by all the other Annex I Parties.\n\nAll Annex I Parties, excluding the US, have participated in the 1st Kyoto commitment period. 37 Annex I countries and the EU have agreed to second-round Kyoto targets. These countries are Australia, all members of the European Union, Belarus, Croatia, Iceland, Kazakhstan, Norway, Switzerland, and Ukraine. Belarus, Kazakhstan and Ukraine have stated that they may withdraw from the Protocol or not put into legal force the Amendment with second round targets. Japan, New Zealand, and Russia have participated in Kyoto's first-round but have not taken on new targets in the second commitment period. Other developed countries without second-round targets are Canada (which withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol in 2012) and the United States.\n\nIn 2011, parties adopted the \"Durban Platform for Enhanced Action\". As part of the Durban Platform, parties have agreed to \"develop a protocol, another legal instrument or an agreed outcome with legal force under the Convention applicable to all Parties\". At Durban and Doha, parties noted \"with grave concern\" that current efforts to hold global warming to below 2 or 1.5 °C relative to the pre-industrial level appear inadequate.\n\nIn 2015, all (then) 196 parties to the convention came together for the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris 30 November - 12 December and adopted by consensus the Paris Agreement, aimed at limiting global warming to less than two degrees Celsius, and pursue efforts to limit the rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius. The Paris Agreement entered into force on November 4, 2016.\n\nAt the 19th session of the Conference of the Parties in Warsaw in 2013, the UNFCCC created a mechanism for Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs) to be submitted in the run up to the 21st session of the Conference of the Parties in Paris (COP21) in 2015. Countries were given freedom and flexibility to ensure these climate change mitigation and adaptation plans were nationally appropriate; this flexibility, especially regarding the types of actions to be undertook, allowed for developing countries to tailor their plans to their specific adaptation and mitigation needs, as well as towards other needs.\nIn the aftermath of COP21, these INDCs became Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) when a country ratified the Paris Agreement, unless a new NDC was submitted to the UNFCCC at the same time. The 22nd session of the Conference of the Parties (COP22) in Marrakesh focused on these Nationally Determined Contributions and their implementation, after the Paris Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016.\n\nThe Climate and Development Knowledge Network (CDKN) created a guide for NDC implementation, for the use of decision makers in Less Developed Countries. In this guide, CDKN identified a series of common challenges countries face in NDC implementation, including how to: \n\nIn addition to the Kyoto Protocol (and its amendment) and the Paris Agreement, parties to the Convention have agreed to further commitments during UNFCCC Conferences of the Parties. These include the Bali Action Plan (2007), the Copenhagen Accord (2009), the Cancún agreements (2010), and the Durban Platform for Enhanced Action (2012).\n\nAs part of the Bali Action Plan, adopted in 2007, all developed country Parties have agreed to \"quantified emission limitation and reduction objectives, while ensuring the comparability of efforts among them, taking into account differences in their national circumstances.\" Developing country Parties agreed to \"[nationally] appropriate mitigation actions [NAMAs] context of sustainable development, supported and enabled by technology, financing and capacity-building, in a measurable, reportable and verifiable manner.\" 42 developed countries have submitted mitigation targets to the UNFCCC secretariat, as have 57 developing countries and the African Group (a group of countries within the UN).\n\nAs part of the 2009 Copenhagen negotiations, a number of countries produced the Copenhagen Accord. The Accord states that global warming should be limited to below 2.0 °C (3.6 °F). This may be strengthened in 2015 with a target to limit warming to below 1.5 °C. The Accord does not specify what the baseline is for these temperature targets (e.g., relative to pre-industrial or 1990 temperatures). According to the UNFCCC, these targets are relative to pre-industrial temperatures.\n\n114 countries agreed to the Accord. The UNFCCC secretariat notes that \"Some Parties [...] stated in their communications to the secretariat specific understandings on the nature of the Accord and related matters, based on which they have agreed to [the Accord].\" The Accord was not formally adopted by the Conference of the Parties. Instead, the COP \"took note of the Copenhagen Accord.\"\n\nAs part of the Accord, 17 developed country Parties and the EU-27 have submitted mitigation targets, as have 45 developing country Parties. Some developing country Parties have noted the need for international support in their plans.\n\nAs part of the Cancún agreements, developed and developing countries have submitted mitigation plans to the UNFCCC. These plans are compiled with those made as part of the Bali Action Plan.\n\nAt Berlin, Cancún, and Durban, the development needs of developing country parties were reiterated. For example, the Durban Platform reaffirms that:\n\n[...] social and economic development and poverty eradication are the first and overriding priorities of developing country Parties, and that a low-emission development strategy is central to sustainable development, and that the share of global emissions originating in developing countries will grow to meet their social and development needs\n\nThe ultimate objective of the Framework Convention is to prevent \"dangerous\" anthropogenic (i.e., human-caused) interference of the climate system. As is stated in Article 2 of the Convention, this requires that GHG concentrations are stabilized in the atmosphere at a level where ecosystems can adapt naturally to climate change, food production is not threatened, and economic development can proceed in a sustainable fashion.\n\nTo stabilize atmospheric GHG concentrations, global anthropogenic GHG emissions would need to peak then decline (see climate change mitigation). Lower stabilization levels would require emissions to peak and decline earlier compared to higher stabilization levels. The graph above shows projected changes in annual global GHG emissions (measured in CO-equivalents) for various stabilization scenarios. The other two graphs show the associated changes in atmospheric GHG concentrations (in CO-equivalents) and global mean temperature for these scenarios. Lower stabilization levels are associated with lower magnitudes of global warming compared to higher stabilization levels.\n\nThere is uncertainty over how GHG concentrations and global temperatures will change in response to anthropogenic emissions (see climate change feedback and climate sensitivity). The graph opposite shows global temperature changes in the year 2100 for a range of emission scenarios, including uncertainty estimates.\n\nThere are a range of views over what level of climate change is dangerous. Scientific analysis can provide information on the risks of climate change, but deciding which risks are dangerous requires value judgements.\n\nThe global warming that has already occurred poses a risk to some human and natural systems (e.g., coral reefs). Higher magnitudes of global warming will generally increase the risk of negative impacts. According to Field \"et al.\" (2014), climate change risks are \"considerable\" with 1 to 2 °C of global warming, relative to pre-industrial levels. 4 °C warming would lead to significantly increased risks, with potential impacts including widespread loss of biodiversity and reduced global and regional food security.\n\nClimate change policies may lead to costs that are relevant to Article 2. For example, more stringent policies to control GHG emissions may reduce the risk of more severe climate change, but may also be more expensive to implement.\n\n\nThere is considerable uncertainty over future changes in anthropogenic GHG emissions, atmospheric GHG concentrations, and associated climate change. Without mitigation policies, increased energy demand and extensive use of fossil fuels could lead to global warming (in 2100) of 3.7 to 4.8 °C relative to pre-industrial levels (2.5 to 7.8 °C including climate uncertainty).\n\nTo have a likely chance of limiting global warming (in 2100) to below 2 °C, GHG concentrations would need to be limited to around 450 ppm CO-eq. The current trajectory of global emissions does not appear to be consistent with limiting global warming to below 1.5 or 2 °C.\n\nIn decision making, the precautionary principle is considered when possibly dangerous, irreversible, or catastrophic events are identified, but scientific evaluation of the potential damage is not sufficiently certain (Toth \"et al\"., 2001, pp. 655–656). The precautionary principle implies an emphasis on the need to prevent such adverse effects.\n\nUncertainty is associated with each link of the causal chain of climate change. For example, future GHG emissions are uncertain, as are climate change damages. However, following the precautionary principle, uncertainty is not a reason for inaction, and this is acknowledged in Article 3.3 of the UNFCCC (Toth \"et al\"., 2001, p. 656).\n\nAs of 2015, the UNFCCC has 197 parties including all United Nations member states, United Nations General Assembly observer State of Palestine, UN non-member states Niue and the Cook Islands and the supranational union European Union. The Holy See is not a member state, but is an observer.\n\nParties to the UNFCCC are classified as:\n\nThere are 43 Annex I Parties including the European Union. These countries are classified as industrialized countries and economies in transition. Of these, 24 are Annex II Parties, including the European Union, and 14 are Economies in Transition.\n\n\n\nThe United Nations Climate Change Conference are yearly conferences held in the framework of the UNFCCC. They serve as the formal meeting of the UNFCCC Parties (\"Conferences of the Parties\") (COP) to assess progress in dealing with climate change, and beginning in the mid-1990s, to negotiate the Kyoto Protocol to establish legally binding obligations for developed countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions. From 2005 the Conferences have also served as the Meetings of Parties of the Kyoto Protocol (CMP). Also parties to the Convention that are not parties to the Protocol can participate in Protocol-related meetings as observers. The first conference (COP1) was held in 1995 in Berlin. The 3rd conference (COP3) was held in Kyoto and resulted in the Kyoto protocol, which was amended during the 2012 Doha Conference (COP18, CMP 8). The COP21 (CMP11)) conference was held in Paris and resulted in adoption of the Paris Agreement. Negotiations for the Paris Agreement took place during COP22 in Marrakech, Morocco. The twenty-third COP (\"COP23\") was led by Fiji and took place in Bonn, Germany.\n\nA subsidiary body is a committee that assists the Conference of the Parties. Subsidiary bodies include:\n\nThe work under the UNFCCC is facilitated by a secretariat in Bonn, Germany. The secretariat is established under Article 8 of the Convention. It is headed by the Executive Secretary. The current Executive Secretary, Patricia Espinosa, was appointed on 18 May 2016 by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and took office on 18 July 2016. She succeeded Christiana Figueres who held the office since 2010. Former Executive Secretaries have been Yvo de Boer (2006-2010), Joke Waller-Hunter (2002-2005) and Michael Zammit Cutajar (1995-2002).\nAction for Climate Empowerment (ACE) is a term adopted by the UNFCCC in 2015 to have a better name for this topic than \"Article 6\". It refers to Article 6 of the Convention's original text (1992), focusing on six priority areas: education, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information, and international cooperation on these issues. The implementation of all six areas has been identified as the pivotal factor for everyone to understand and participate in solving the complex challenges presented by climate change. ACE calls on governments to develop and implement educational and public awareness programmes, train scientific, technical and managerial personnel, foster access to information, and promote public participation in addressing climate change and its effects. It also urges countries to cooperate in this process, by exchanging good practices and lessons learned, and strengthening national institutions. This wide scope of activities is guided by specific objectives that, together, are seen as crucial for effectively implementing climate adaptation and mitigation actions, and for achieving the ultimate objective of the UNFCCC.\n\nThe overall umbrella and processes of the UNFCCC and the adopted Kyoto Protocol have been criticized by some as not having achieved its stated goals of reducing the emission of carbon dioxide (the primary culprit blamed for rising global temperatures of the 21st century). At a speech given at his alma mater, Todd Stern — the US Climate Change envoy — has expressed the challenges with the UNFCCC process as follows, \"Climate change is not a conventional environmental issue...It implicates virtually every aspect of a state's economy, so it makes countries nervous about growth and development. This is an economic issue every bit as it is an environmental one.\" He went on to explain that, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is a multilateral body concerned with climate change and can be an inefficient system for enacting international policy. Because the framework system includes over 190 countries and because negotiations are governed by consensus, small groups of countries can often block progress.\n\nThe failure to achieve meaningful progress and reach effective-CO2 reducing-policy treaties among the parties over the past eighteen years have driven some countries like the United States to never ratify the UNFCCC's largest body of work — the Kyoto Protocol, in large part because the treaty didn't cover developing countries who now include the largest CO2 emitters. However, this fails to consider the historical responsibility for climate change since industrialisation, which is a contentious issue in the talks, and the responsibility of emissions from consumption and importation of goods. It has also led Canada to withdraw from the Kyoto Protocol out of a desire to not force its citizens to pay penalties that would result in wealth transfers out of Canada. Canada formally withdrew from the Kyoto Protocol in 2011. Both the US and Canada are looking at Voluntary Emissions Reduction schemes that they can implement internally to curb carbon dioxide emissions outside the Kyoto Protocol.\n\nThe perceived lack of progress has also led some countries to seek and focus on alternative high-value activities like the creation of the Climate and Clean Air Coalition to Reduce Short-Lived Climate Pollutants which seeks to regulate short-lived pollutants such as methane, black carbon and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) which together are believed to account for up to 1/3 of current global warming but whose regulation is not as fraught with wide economic impacts and opposition.\n\nIn 2010, Japan stated that it will not sign up to a second Kyoto term, because it would impose restrictions on it not faced by its main economic competitors, China, India and Indonesia. A similar indication was given by the Prime Minister of New Zealand in November 2012. At the 2012 conference, last minute objections at the conference by Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and Kazakhstan were ignored by the governing officials, and they have indicated that they will likely withdraw or not ratify the treaty. These defections place additional pressures on the UNFCCC process that is seen by some as cumbersome and expensive: in the UK alone the climate change department has taken over 3,000 flights in two years at a cost of over ₤1,300,000 (British Pounds).\n\nBefore the 2015 United Nations Climate Change Conference, National Geographic Magazine added criticism, writing: \"Since 1992, when the world's nations agreed at Rio de Janeiro to avoid 'dangerous anthropogenic interference with the climate system,' they've met 20 times without moving the needle on carbon emissions. In that interval we've added almost as much carbon to the atmosphere as we did in the previous century.\"\n\nBenchmarking is the setting of a policy target based on some frame of reference. An example of benchmarking is the UNFCCC's original target of Annex I Parties limiting their greenhouse gas emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000. Goldemberg \"et al.\" (1996) commented on the economic implications of this target. Although the target applies equally to all Annex I Parties, the economic costs of meeting the target would likely vary between Parties. For example, countries with initially high levels of energy efficiency might find it more costly to meet the target than countries with lower levels of energy efficiency. From this perspective, the UNFCCC target could be viewed as inequitable, i.e., unfair.\n\nBenchmarking has also been discussed in relation to the first-round emissions targets specified in the Kyoto Protocol (see views on the Kyoto Protocol and Kyoto Protocol and government action).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33286774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33286774", "title": "Utrecht Journal of International and European Law", "text": "Utrecht Journal of International and European Law\n\nThe Utrecht Journal of International and European Law is a biannual peer-reviewed open access law journal covering international and European law. It is affiliated with Utrecht University and Urios.\n\nThe journal was established in 1981 as a student magazine titled \"Merkourios\", containing summaries of study-trips, conferences, and other issues related to Urios, an association for international and European law. Since then it has evolved from a magazine into a formal, academic law journal. This development was finalised in 2009, when peer-review was officially integrated into the reviewing process. The journal obtained its current name in 2013, and is published by Ubiquity Press.\n\nA complete log of all previous issues is hosted by HeinOnline. \n"}
{"id": "45306577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45306577", "title": "Wild Dogs Act", "text": "Wild Dogs Act\n\nThe Wild Dogs Act, initially passed in 1912, was a piece of South Australian legislation regarding wild dogs and dingos in Australia, and subtitled \"An Act to provide for the Destruction of Wild Dogs\". This act led to an economy of dingo scalping to collect bounties.\n\nThis act was followed by updates and amendments, including 1931, 1938, and 1948.\n\n"}
{"id": "42720437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42720437", "title": "Wirt Yerger", "text": "Wirt Yerger\n\nWirt Adams Yerger, Jr. (born June 1930), is a retired businessman from Jackson, Mississippi, who is the founding 20th century state chairman of the Mississippi Republican Party, a position that he filled from 1956 to 1966.\n\nYerger is a son of Wirt Yerger, Sr. (1901-1974) and Rivers Applewhite Yerger (1904-1991), she a native of Columbia in Marion County in southwestern Mississippi. The couple is interred at Greenwood Cemetery in the capital city of Jackson, as are other family members.\n\nYerger's younger brother, William Swan Yerger (born 1932), is a retired Hinds County circuit court judge who held his office from 1997 to 2010. Swan Yerger, as he is known, ran unsuccessfully as a Republican nominee at the age of thirty-one for the Mississippi House of Representatives in 1963 against Democrat William I. S. \"Billy\" Thompson, the son of Jackson Mayor Allen C. Thompson. At the time, Swan Yerger was a staunch critic of unpledged electors, which had carried Mississippi in the 1960 presidential election.\n\nYerger is a former insurance agent with the firm Ross & Yerger (founded 1860) in Jackson. He is affiliated with Rotary International, the Chamber of Commerce, and the YMCA. One of the founders of the Fondren Renaissance Foundation, he also operates the Wirt A. Yerger Jr. Foundation, Inc. He and his wife, Mary, have three children, one of whom is the businessman Wirt, III (born May 1957).\n\nYerger led a younger and more vigorous group of conservative entrepreneurs, businesspeople, and lawyers, some having previously been part of the Young Republicans organization, and most the product of increasing urbanization of a still heavily rural-oriented state. At the age of twenty-six, he was named in Jackson as the party's first chairman by the margin of his one vote, his own. Yerger's faction defeated a motion to include segregation in the first party platform, but many of the early Mississippi Republicans, like their Democratic counterparts, were segregationists. In 1957 and 1958, Yerger was placed on the defensive in Mississippi following the desegregation of Little Rock Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas. Years later, Yerger said that he and his wife were harassed by segregationists, the kind of treatment also received by civil rights activists, because he was viewed as a threat to \"white rule\" as the chairman of the party of the president, Dwight D. Eisenhower, who intervened in Little Rock. In 1960, the Mississippi GOP declared segregation a \"local matter that could best be handled by individual states\" and attempted to focus on other matters, such as reapportionment of legislative bodies and local-option liquor elections to replace statewide prohibition, which ended in Mississippi in 1966.\n\nYerger's conservatives, who stressed States' rights, replaced the former Black and Tan contingent, which had governed the state party from Washington, D.C., with the African-American lawyer Perry Wilbon Howard as the national committeeman and the past dispenser of the limited federal patronage in the state. At the 1952 Republican National Convention in Chicago, Howard led an all-black delegation pledged not to Eisenhower, but U.S. Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, a favorite of the conservative forces but known for his opposition to segregation, in Taft's words: \"No segregationist belongs on a Republican ticket or even in the party\".\n\nIn addition to the Yerger and Howard factions, there were two other smaller groups contending for intraparty power, the Lily-White Movement, led by George L. Sheldon, a former governor of Nebraska, who had run for governor of Mississippi in 1947 and polled only 2.5 percent of the vote, and the \"Democrats for Eisenhower\" under E. O. Spencer. Some media had incorrectly identified Yerger as the head of the Lily Whites who had ousted the Black and Tans.\n\nGeorge Sheldon's son, Anson Hoisington Sheldon (born 1905 in Nebraska), a resident of Washington County, was a member of the Mississippi Republican State Executive Committee from 1944 to 1967, the state chairman from 1948 to 1952, the vice-chairman from 1952 to 1967, and a delegate to the Republican National Conventions of 1956 and 1960.\n\nDespite Sheldon's earlier tenure as chairman, the Yerger faction considered Yerger to be the first of the modern state Republican chairmen in Mississippi. Yerger said that his forces represented \"the ultimate break with the old-line, racist Southern Democrats who didn't know whether they wanted to be liberal or conservative, but were vocally committed to keeping long-held, highly corrupted power.\"\n\nYerger held party positions beyond Mississippi. He was the chairman of the Mississippi delegation to the Republican National Conventions in 1956, 1960, and 1964. In 1960, Yerger was elected to a four-year term as chairman of the Southern Association of Republican State Chairmen. In 1963, Yerger was named Mississippi chairman of the Draft Goldwater Committee under the national director, Peter O'Donnell, Jr., of Dallas.\n\nIn 1965, Yerger lost a bid to become the national head of the organization of state Republican Party chairmen. His opposition to the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was a factor in his defeat for that position. Yerger had an altercation with liberal Republican Charles H. Percy, a defeated candidate for governor of Illinois in 1964 but a successful nominee in 1966 for the U.S. Senate. Percy accepted an invitation to speak before the Mississippi Council on Human Relations, a biracial group sponsored by the Southern Regional Council. Yerger branded the group a \"Democratic front\" and worked with Illinois Republicans to have Percy's speech scuttled.\n\nYerger built his state party from scratch. He gained recognition for his chairmanship from the Eisenhower administration and thereafter supported the presidential candidacies of Richard M. Nixon and Barry M. Goldwater. In April 1961, the first Republican in Mississippi during the Yerger chairmanship was elected to a local office; Joe O. Sams, Jr., of Columbus became the county attorney of Lowndes County.\n\nIn 1963, the Mississippi party offered candidates for governor and lieutenant governor, both former Democrats. Rubel Phillips, a former member of the Mississippi Public Service Commission from Corinth and Jackson, and Stanford Morse, a member of the Mississippi State Senate from Gulfport, switched parties that year to challenge the elections of Paul B. Johnson, Jr. and Carroll Gartin for governor and lieutenant governors, respectively. Neither Phillips nor Morse reached 40 percent of the vote in the general election, but they paved the way for later Republican candidates who in time won the majority of statewide offices in Mississippi.\n\nIn the Phillips-Morse campaign, Yerger was frequently ridiculed as \"Squirt\" Yerger by the Democratic State Chairman Bidwell Adam, a lawyer from Gulfport who served as lieutenant governor from 1928 to 1932 during the administration of staunch segregationist Theodore Bilbo. Adam and outgoing Governor Ross Barnett employed harsh anti-Republican rhetoric in their determined support for the Democrat Paul Johnson. The pair accused Phillips of being a Republican \"turncoat\" and then also questioned Phillips loyalty to the GOP. Johnson called his rival Phillips \"a Stevenson liberal in Republican outer-garments.\" Adam accused Phillips and Morse of onitting the word \"Republican\" from campaign literature in a ploy to confuse voters.\n\nAn advertisement in the former \"Jackson Daily News\", now part of \"The Clarion-Ledger\", linked the Mississippi white Republicans with scalawags from the era of Reconstruction, a term Yerger found offensive, as he is a great-grandson of a Confederate Army officer.\n\nWith Phillips' defeat, which Bidwell Adam termed an \"electrocution\", the Democrat telegraphed his state chairman counterpart Yerger to ask: \"Will you please advise the date and place you will deliver the [GOP] funeral oration?\"\n\nYerger stepped down as chairman with plans to challenge Democratic U.S. Senator James O. Eastland in the 1966 general election. In the Phillips-Johnson race, Yerger had accused Eastland of missing twenty-five of fifty-one roll call votes while Eastland was in Mississippi campaigning for Paul Johnson. Eastland said that his support of Johnson was essential to protect \"white rule\" in Mississippi. Democratic Chairman Bidwell Adam said that Eastland had a \"patriotic duty\" to support the state's Democratic nominees. However, Prentiss Walker, the Republican U.S. representative from Mize, who represented Mississippi's 4th congressional district for a single term, instead ran against Eastland. Walker was the first Mississippi Republican since Reconstruction to win a U.S. House seat. Yerger therefore did not pursue an elected office but later said that Walker's senatorial candidacy was \"very devastating\" to the Mississippi GOP because the House seat returned to the Democrats and was held for decades by Gillespie V. Montgomery of Meridian, who carried bipartisan support. Walker also polled barely a quarter of the vote against Eastland.\n\nYerger was succeeded as chairman by Clarke Reed, a businessman from Greenville, who also served ten years in the post.\n\nIn 1967, Phillips mounted his second unsuccessful race for governor, this time against U.S. Representative John Bell Williams of Mississippi's 3rd congressional district, who had supported Goldwater in 1964 and been stripped in 1965 of House seniority for doing so. Sensing that he could not run to the \"right\" of Williams as he had tried to do with Johnson in 1963, Phillips shed his former segregationiost image and adopted a more moderate stance similar to that employed unsuccessfully by Williams' Democratic runoff rival, state Treasurer and later Governor William F. Winter.\n\nIn 2009, the central committee of the Mississippi GOP recognized Yerger's lifetime achievements by naming him \"chairman emeritus.\" He is also chairman emeritus of Ross & Yerger Insurance.\n\nIn January 2010, his active political career long behind him, Yerger published with Joseph L. Maxwell, III, a lengthy memoir with even a long title, \"A Courageous Cause: A Personal Story of Modern Republicanism's Birth from 1956 to 1966 in Mississippi\".\n\nYerger was chosen as a presidential elector for Mississippi in the 2012 presidential election but did not cast a vote and was hence replaced by an alternate. All Mississippi electors voted for former Governor Mitt Romney, who carried Mississippi over the Democratic incumbent Barack H. Obama.\n\nFour years later, Yerger served as a presidential elector for Mississippi in the 2016 presidential election, voting with the other Mississippi electors for Donald Trump, who handily carried Mississippi over the Democratic nominee Hillary Rodham Clinton.\n"}
