{"id": "38443518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38443518", "title": "1960 in philosophy", "text": "1960 in philosophy\n\n1960 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\nBirth years link to the corresponding \"[year] in philosophy\" article:\n"}
{"id": "271979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271979", "title": "Abu Hanifa Dinawari", "text": "Abu Hanifa Dinawari\n\nĀbu Ḥanīfah Āḥmad ibn Dawūd Dīnawarī (815–896 CE, ) was an Islamic Golden Age polymath, astronomer, agriculturist, botanist, metallurgist, geographer, mathematician, and historian. He was born in the region of Dinawar, in Kermanshah in modern-day western Iran. He studied astronomy, mathematics and mechanics in Isfahan and philology and poetry in Kufa and Basra. He died in Dinawar. His most renowned contribution is \"Book of Plants\", for which he is considered the founder of Arabic botany. There is no consensus regarding his ethnic background among scholars. Ludwig Adamec considers him to be of Kurdish descent, while Encyclopedia of Islam classifies him as an Arab philologist and scientist, however, Encyclopaedia Iranica lists him as Persian. Encyclopædia Britannica Online classifies him to be of Kurdish origin. \nHe is the author of about fifteen works\n\n\n\nHis \"General History\" (al-Akhbar al-Tiwal) has been edited and published numerous times (Vladimir Guirgass, 1888; Muhammad Sa'id Rafi'i, 1911; 'Abd al-Munim 'Amir & Jamal al-din Shayyal, 1960; Isam Muhammad al-Hajj 'Ali, 2001), but has not been translated in its entirety into a European language. Jackson Bonner has recently prepared an English translation of the pre-Islamic passages of al-Akhbar al-Tiwal.\n\nAl-Dinawari is considered the founder of Arabic botany for his \"Kitab al-Nabat\" (\"Book of Plants\"), which consisted of six volumes. Only the third and fifth volumes have survived, though the sixth volume has partly been reconstructed based on citations from later works. In the surviving portions of his works, 637 plants are described from the letters \"sin\" to \"ya\". He describes the phases of plant growth and the production of flowers and fruit.\n\nMany of the Muslim early Botanical works are lost, such as that of Al-Shaybani (d.820), Ibn Al-Arabi (d.844), Al-Bahili (d.845) and Ibn as-Sikkit (d.857), but their works, however, are extensively quoted in later books by Abu Hanifa Al-Dinawari.\n\nParts of al-Dinawari's \"Book of Plants\" deals with the applications of Islamic astronomy and meteorology to agriculture. It describes the astronomical and meteorological character of the sky, the planets and constellations, the sun and moon, the lunar phases indicating seasons and rain, the \"anwa\" (heavenly bodies of rain), and atmospheric phenomena such as winds, thunder, lightning, snow, floods, valleys, rivers, lakes, wells and other sources of water.\n\nParts of al-Dinawari's \"Book of Plants\" deals with the Earth sciences in the context of agriculture. He considers the Earth, stone and sands, and describes different types of ground, indicating which types are more convenient for plants and the qualities and properties of good ground.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26613183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26613183", "title": "Acting under a description", "text": "Acting under a description\n\nActing under a description is a conception of the intentionality of human action introduced by philosopher G. E. M. Anscombe.\n\nAnscombe wrote that a human action is intentional if the question \"Why?\", taken in a certain sense (and evidently conceived as addressed to him), has application (\"Intention\", par. 5-8). An agent can answer the \"Why?\" question by giving a reason or purpose for her action. \"To do Y\" or \"because I want to do Y\" would be typical answers to this sort of \"Why?\"; though they are not the only ones, they are crucial to the constitution of the phenomenon as a typical phenomenon of human life (sections 18-21). The agent's answer helps supply the descriptions under which the action is intentional. Moreover, the act is known without observation (\"Intention\", section. 28). For example, a person knows without observation that their hands are pushing upwards and when asked what they are doing, they say they are opening the window. Hence, in their hands pushing upwards, they are opening the window; opening a window being a description of the intentional act.\n\nAnscombe was the first to clearly spell out that actions are intentional under some descriptions and not others. In her famous example, a man's action (which we might observe as consisting in moving an arm up and down while holding a handle) may be intentional under the description \"pumping water\" but not under other descriptions such as \"contracting these muscles\", \"tapping out this rhythm\", etc.\n\nThe implications of this philosophy of intentional action were extended by Ian Hacking. His argument is as follows: people talk about themselves as intentional beings. Descriptions of acts are almost always descriptions of how an act was intended. A person offers an explanation of why he or she acts thus and so. The array of descriptions available to an individual depend on the descriptions available to the society in which the individual resides. Hence, the media, the expertise of psychologists, physicians and scientists as well as the folk understandings of cultural communities all provide descriptions; descriptions that can be assumed by an individual as he or she acts.\n\nActing under a description has important implications for interpreting our selves. Self-understanding involves understanding our acts and hence understanding the descriptions under which we act. This issue has been illustrated with discussions of particular cases such as autism and multiple personality disorder. In contemporary society, the descriptions under which people act constitute the kind of act and the kind of person that commits the act. By illustration, a child pushes another child in the playground. If asked why he did that, he might answer \"to show who's boss\", \"because I have ADHD\", or \"because I was provoked\". Hacking is not concerned with which description best suits the act, but rather, how the descriptions under which people act depend on the descriptions available to them.\n\nAccording to Hacking, selves are formed not only by humans' bio-physical constitution and the events we experience, but also by the descriptions we ascribe to the events that occur and the events we engage in. These descriptions are often causal descriptions: explanations of how we have come to be the persons that we are. A person does not come to be the person that she is simply because the events of her past caused her to be this person. Rather, the descriptions attributed to events in the past are a formative influence on her being. These explanations are replete with meaning and causal attribution. People are substantially (though not entirely) the people they understand themselves to be.\n\nActing under a description also has important implications for our interpretation of different societies and different eras. Hacking argues that descriptions change as the shared understandings of particular acts change. Hacking provides the following example. 17th-century courtiers tickled the genitalia of Louis XIII. Were they guilty of child abuse? The description of child abuse available in the 21st century did not exist in the 17th century. \"In short, the charge of child abuse may be true of the past, but it was not true in the past. The description only becomes true with time. For Hacking, retroactive descriptions are, at the very least, controversial.\"\n\nThe past is indeterminate, not because acts simply may or may not have happened, but because the ascribed causes of those acts form an ever-shifting account depending on the ebb and flow of descriptions readily ascribed to those acts as the practices of society change.\n\n"}
{"id": "14015983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14015983", "title": "Ali Azayku", "text": "Ali Azayku\n\nAli Sidqi Azaykou (; 1942–2004), also called Dda Ali, was a Moroccan Berber poet, historian, philosopher and critic.\nHe was an Amazigh activist. He has greatly influenced the cultural Berber movements.\n\nAli Sidqi Azaykou was born (1942) in the village of Igran n tuinght in the High Atlas in the surroundings of Taroudannt in the Sous region in Morocco. He began his primary education in his native village and ended them in Marrakesh where he also followed his secondary education and entered the national teacher training college.\n\n"}
{"id": "8885100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8885100", "title": "Alpert of Metz", "text": "Alpert of Metz\n\nAlpert of Metz (died 1024) was a Benedictine chronicler of the eleventh century. His \"De diversitate temporum\" is a major source for the history of Western Europe (particularly for France, Western Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands) in the period it covers, which is 990 to 1021. It was dedicated to Burchard of Worms.\n\nAlpert wrote other works, including a partial biography of Bishop Dietrich I of Metz.\n\n"}
{"id": "27182401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27182401", "title": "Annie Romein-Verschoor", "text": "Annie Romein-Verschoor\n\nAnna Helena Margaretha (Annie) Romein-Verschoor was a Dutch author and historian. She received the Constantijn Huygens Prize in 1970.\n\nRomein-Verschoor studied Dutch and history at the University of Leiden, where she met and married (on 14 August 1920) the Dutch journalist and historian Jan Romein. With her husband, she would author two popularizing books on Dutch history that established their national fame: \"De lage landen bij de zee\" (\"The Low Countries by the sea\", 1934), a Marxist national history that reached a wide audience, and \"Erflaters van onze beschaving\" (\"Testators of our civilization, four volumes, 1938–1940), a collection of 36 biographies of famous Dutchmen (and one woman, Betje Wolff) of bygone centuries, seventeen of them written by Romein-Verschoor. She joined the Communist Party in 1920 but had definitively left that organisation by 1937.\n\nRomein-Verschoor's 1935 Ph.D. thesis was printed and published in 1936 as \"Vrouwenspiegel\". A study of female authorship in the Dutch language since 1880, the work was reprinted in 1977 and well received by the resurgent feminist movement of the 1970s.\n\nDuring World War II, the Romeins were forced to go into hiding. In the following Cold War era, they were politically isolated as non-affiliated communists. Romein-Verschoor always remained true to the communist ideal, but publicly defended Boris Pasternak and denounced socialist realism as a \"constant distorting of reality to match theory\". Nevertheless, she was highly successful and popular as a writer. Her 1970 autobiography \"Omzien in verwondering\" (\"Looking back in wonder\") became a bestseller.\n\n"}
{"id": "49987412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49987412", "title": "Architecture of Uzbekistan", "text": "Architecture of Uzbekistan\n\nThe architecture of Uzbekistan is considered as the symbol of the nations' history. In spite of changing economic conditions, technological advances, demographic fluctuations and cultural shifts, the originality of Uzbek architecture can be seen in the country. \nSamarkand, Bukhara, Khiva, Shakhrisabz, Termez and Kokand are the most famous architectural centers of art and science. Particularly, palaces, mausoleums and mosques, minarets and ancient masterpieces are survived to capture the pages of history.\nBy confirming analytical facts from archeological researches about inhabiting the territory of Central Asia, it is stated that trends in architecture are seen parallel to Acheulean era. In fact, several pieces of monuments belong to both stone and bronze ages have been found in the mountains of Surkhandarya, Tashkent, Samarkand, Fergana and Navoi regions and in rivers’ valleys.\nDuring the Middle Ages, Uzbekistan was the center of the 7000-mile-long Silk Road, which enabled the flourish of architectural designs of Uzbek culture. Besides, Timurid-period architecture from 14th to 16th century, Shaybanid era of the 16th century resulted in the contribution of Islamic architecture and as well as Middle Ages.\nTill the 20th century, Uzbek architecture has been characterized by its connection with traditional background on the one hand, and modern innovation on the other.\n\nSplendid, colorful mosaics, religious symbols, and abstract geometrical patterns have always characterized historical construction in Uzbekistan. At first sight, the design seems beautiful itself while deeper look maintains geometrical and scientific intellect of abstractness.\n\nThe earliest traces of human habitation in the area of Uzbekistan are dated back many centuries. Turning details, information about ancient settlements proves that the earliest art of construction is Sapallitepa (17th-14th centuries BC) and Jarkutan (14th-9th centuries BC), as well as Buddhist monuments, particularly Fayaztepa and Karatepa, can be found in Surhandarya region (1st-3rd centuries AD). They all capture the stages of Central Asian civilization. One of the most important factor about Uzbek national history is the significance of the culture of ancient Khorezm. According to the life of Abu Rayhan Beruny, it can be notified that the city established even 982 years before Alexander the Great invaded Central Asia, or, in other words, 34 centuries ago. In other words, settlements of ancient Khorezm antiquityis defined by architectural masterpieces, such as Janbaskala (4th century BCE), Koi Krilgankala (2nd century BC – 4th century AD), Toprakkala (1st century BC – 6th century AD), Ayazkala (2nd century BC, on the territory of Republic of Karakalpakstan).\n\nBukhara, Samarkand and Khiva play a vital role in the influence of Middle Age architecture of Uzbekistan. For instance, palaces of the rulers, places of residence of aristocracy, market places, madrasah and mausoleums are confirmed as exceptional architectural patterns.\n\nThe Kyrk-Kyz ('Forty Girls') mansion in Termez dating back the 9th- 10th centuries is a fine example of an original country manor. The Samanids Mausoleum in Bukhara still stands as a fine architectural building from the marvelous period of early Middle Ages.\n\nIn the 11th-12th centuries, Samarkand became one of the major cities in the region. As \"The nobles public square in the world\" (Lord Curzon) – Registan is the main artwork and the heart of the ancient city Samarkand.\n\nBeing framed by three madrasahs (Islamic schools) of distinctive Islamic architecture: the Ulugh Beg Madrasah (1417–1420), the Tilla-Kari Madrasah (1646–1660) and the Sher-Dar Madrasah (1619–1636), it was a public square.\n\nThe Ulugh Beg Madrasah, was built in the times of Timurid Empire era of Timur, known as Tamerlane. By looking architectural point of view, it has a lancet-arch (pishtaq) or main square entrance. High minarets represent the beauty of the corners. There is a mosaic panel over the entrance arch, which was decorated by geometrical stylized ornaments. The building consists of mosque and lecture rooms, specialized for students. The walls have magnificent art galleries along the axes.\n\nThe construction of the Sher-Dar and Tilla-Kari madrasahs was ordered to be built in the 17th century. The tiger mosaics appear on the face of each madrasah.\nSpecifically, the uniqueness of Sher Dar madrasah is found as images of lion-tigers, deer, and human faces. They are not only just paintings, but also special symbols of power by the perceptions of Islam religion. The real design beauty and association between grand portal, decorated pillars, and other masterpieces are impossible to be captured in photos.\n\nThe Tilla-Kari madrasah ( means «gold-covered») was known as the last, while huge and the most glorious structure of the Registan Square. Tilla-Kari madrasah includes 120 meter-long façade, relieving the square’s oppressive symmetrical axis. The composition of minaret at the corner gives strength to the architecture of the madrasah. Exterior scene was enriched by polychromatic tiles with geometric patterns. Moreover, at the center, there is tall pishtaq enables each façade to be more glorious.\n\nThe architecture of Temur's period captures the 13th century. In particular, strong castles, the symbols of strong government, authority and victory of the Islamic civilization, marketplaces - symbols of the role of trade, and living quarters - the essence of the complex urban life.\n\nFor example, the greatest monumental architecture was the Bibi Khanum Mosque, which has 115 feet high portals, 165-foot minarets, 400 cupolas and a huge courtyard. Specific features about the mosque is the gates, made of seven metals, and the building itself marble and terracotta with a decoration of mosaics and blue-gold frescoes.\n\nThe period of the Timurid dynasty (14th -16th centuries), as well as the Shaybanid era (16th century) is famous for its colorful architectural designs, such as Turquoise-colored domes: the dome of the Gur-e Amir (Tamerlane's mausoleum in Samarqand).\n\nAt the end of the 19th and the beginning of 20th centuries constructions give e scene of typical residential architecture of an ordinary Uzbek citizens. While the buildings reflect the experiences of historical background and as well as local and modern conditions of the region. For instance, an inhabited house in Bukhara has a closed character and is isolated from the street noise and dust. Its isolated rooms were built according to the weather changes and create a unique microclimate in both the heat and cold. Further example is Khiva, with a high terrace opened to the wind promotes the creation of a favorable microclimate in houses. So, in Ferghana, for example, houses had sliding walls and shutters, and were decorated with niches, ganch (wooden architecture), and other characteristic conditions. Besides, having very simple design styles, the national are veryrational and supplies the originality of Uzbek culture.\n\nIt has been proved by the facts that special features of Uzbek architecture harmonize traditional originality of structure formation and consideration of microclimate. The magnificent cities of Tashkent, Samarkand, Bukhara, Khiva are famous with such fantastic architectural ensembles as Khazrat Imam, Registan, Lyabi Khaus, Ichan Kala etc. Almost all historical cities of Central Asia are considered to be on the «Must seen places».\n\n"}
{"id": "52764668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52764668", "title": "Babylonokia", "text": "Babylonokia\n\nBabylonokia (also Babylon-Nokia, Alien-Mobile, and Cuneiform Mobile Phone) is a 2012 artwork by Karl Weingärtner in the form of a clay tablet shaped like a mobile phone, its keys and screen showing cuneiform script.\n\nWeingärtner created the work to represent the evolution of information transfer from the ancient world to the present. Fringe scientists and alternative archaeology proponents subsequently misrepresented a photograph of the artwork as showing an 800-year-old archaeological find; that story was popularised in a video on the YouTube channel \"Paranormal Crucible\" and led to the object being reported by some press sources as a mystery.\n\nWeingärtner created the phone-styled clay tablet with cuneiform signs as a reaction to an exhibition at the Museum for Communication in Berlin titled \"From the Cuneiform to the SMS: Communication Once and Today\", as well as the negative, global effects of information technology. Cuneiform signals the beginning of written records of information.\n\nThe fact that it is a clay copy of what appears to be a Sony Ericsson S868 mobile phone, a model from the 1990s, had no meaning for the artist, who was using it as a metaphor for mobile devices in general.\n\nThe work of art is unique and is kept by the artist in a special depot. It is available on request as a loan for museums and exhibitions. It is made from clay, weighs 91 grams, and measures approximately .\n\nWeingärtner posted a photo of the image on Facebook as part of a sale of his work, and a Facebook commenter coined the name \"BabyloNokia\". Three years later, the image was posted to the Conspiracy Club website with the headline \"800-Year-Old Mobile Phone Found In Austria? Check This Out.\" The editor of \"UFO Sighting Daily\" reported that the Babylonokia image was proof that ancient astronauts had visited Earth in the past. \"The Daily Express\", a British tabloid, reposted Weingärtner’s photo without attribution and claimed that the artefact had been dated to the 13th century BCE.\n\nSpeaking about the image's use by fringe websites and the press, Weingärtner said \"The photo was used without my knowledge and without my consent. [...] It’s not what I wanted. I do not believe in UFOs and I do not believe in aliens.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "39707874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39707874", "title": "Chinese Cultural Fever", "text": "Chinese Cultural Fever\n\nChinese Cultural Fever - ( ) was a cultural tendency in China in the late 1980s, started with economic reforms. It can be considered the first independent cultural initiative in China since 1949. After a period of isolation, China opened to Western Thought. This tendency ended in 1989 due to the a sudden change of political climate, visible in the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests.\n\n"}
{"id": "54826888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54826888", "title": "Donkin Heritage Trail", "text": "Donkin Heritage Trail\n\nThe Donkin Heritage Trail is a 5 km self-guided walking trail along the old hill of central Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, South Africa. The Donkin Heritage Trail is named after the acting Governor of the Cape Colony, Rufane Shaw Donkin\n\nThe trail links 51 places of historical interest and showcases settler history from as early as 1820. Sites include groups of double-storey semi-detached houses with prominent Victorian and Georgian features. These were erected shortly after the turn of the 20th century. It consists of five residences in Donkin Street, facing onto the Donkin Reserve. One of the residential homes is located at 14 Constitution Street and two others located at 8 and 10 Whitlock Street. The Donkin Street complex forms a notable row of terrace houses, and is one of the city's most prominent landmarks. Many of the landmarks have been declared national monuments. \n\nSouth America has been a nice start to my first week. I have been to this restaurant in the city\n\nThe Main Library building with Victorian Gothic architecture, is on the corner of Market Square.\n\nA marble statue of Queen Victoria stands at the entrance of the library. \nThe trail begins at this site, the centrepiece of the Market Square is the City Hall. There is a replica of the Diaz Cross, commemorating the first European to sail into Algoa Bay in 1488. \nThe City Hall is central to the Market square and dates back to 1858. \nThe Prester John Memorial is a Coptic Cross with two figures inside it. It commemorates the Portuguese explorers who discovered South Africa as well as the story of a far older mythical figure named Prester John. Between the 12th and 18th centuries Prester John was believed to have been an early Christian King and one of the descendants of the Three Magi of Christian belief. He was the ‘patron’ of Christian exploration of the world and is seen as ‘a symbol to European Christians of the Church’s universality, transcending culture and geography to encompass all humanity’ and therefore a figurehead for Portuguese sailors and explorers.\n\nThe Campanile is a 120-foot bell tower, which was built in the 1920s to commemorate the 1820 Settlers. The first proposal for a memorial tower to commemorate the landing of the British Settlers of 1820, was made in 1904 by the Reverend Alfred E Hall, a minister of the Queen Street Baptist Church. On 9 April 1921, the foundation stone of the Campanile was laid by H R H Prince Arthur of Connaught, governor of the Union of South Africa. On 10 March 1922, the design for the Campanile was approved and the contract for building the structure was subsequently awarded on 18 March 1922 to a local firm of builders, Harris and Harrower Limited. The tender was worth £6 150. It took approximately 18 months to complete the campanile. The dressed stone, used to construct the base, was taken from some of the oldest buildings in the city and the arched main doorway was built of stone quarried in Grahamstown. The tower is made of brick and reinforced with concrete. Each brick went through a quality test before being used. The structure, both base and belfry, is made of local brick faced with smooth, red Grahamstown bricks. The roof tiles were also obtained from Grahamstown.\n\nArchitecturally, the Campanile is well-proportioned, lofty and slender and simple. The structure is reminiscent of the famous St Mark's Campanile in Venice, which is 320 feet high. The Campanile in Port Elizabeth is 170 feet high from ground level to the tip of the pyramid roof. The area of the structure at the base is 23 feet square, its foundation resting upon sea-worn rock. The windows at different floor levels are fitted with decorative precast concrete grilles and the belfry. There are eight floors within the tower and to reach the observation floor, which is approximately 136 feet above the floor level of the reception area, the visitor has to climb 204 steps. The frieze of the reception area is artistically inscribed with brief details of the events connected with the erection of the Campanile.\n\nThe tower was erected at a final cost of £5 940, but there was neither clock nor bells for the proposed carillon, so that fund-raising was started for that purpose. The largest bell in the carillon is about 6 feet in diameter and weighs between three and four tons. The bells were hoisted into position in the belfry during July 1936 and the first recital on the carillon was given on 9 September by Lionel Field, Mus Bac, ARCM.\n\nSix of the bells were sponsored by descendants of 1820 Settlers as a tribute to their forebears, or by others who wished to honour their memory. Details are embossed on each of the 23 bells which are engraved on a brass plaque affixed to a wall in the reception area of the Campanile.\nBells are rung from the campanile three times a day. The 204-step spiral staircase leads to views over Algoa Bay. The Campanile is partially overshadowed by the Settler's Freeway, however, it remains a focal point of the city's built environment. \nThe Port Elizabeth railway station, located north of the Campanile, and the Railway Station building existed since 1875, when the first line was constructed to Uitenhage approximately 40 Kilometres away. The original building was designed by James Bisset, Resident Engineer, Harbour and Public Works. Additions including the cast-iron supported roof of the main concourse, were designed by E.J. Sherwood and was completed by 1893. S.A. Transport Services renovated the station which was re-opened on 8 August 1985. \n\nThe Harbour Board Building, a national monument, is also known as 'the White House'. It is situated on the Remainder of Erf 1762, Port Elizabeth Central, in the Municipality and Division of Port Elizabeth and measures 3 Morgen 41 square roods 141.4 square feet. \nThe Old Post Office is situated at the top of Flemming Street an lies directly behind the City Hall. It was opened in 1900 and was designed by the Public Works Department of the Cape Colonial Government. Its style is typical of public buildings of the late Victorian era. Later, the building incorporated the former Magistrate's Court building erected in 1885 and the police station and barracks.\n\nThe Feather Market Centre is located in the Market Square and was named for its history as a trading and auction house for ostrich feathers in the late 1800s till the early 1900s.\nNumber 7 Castle Hill is believed to be one of the oldest surviving settler cottages in the city. No 7 Castle Hill was completed in 1825 and is one of the oldest surviving Settler cottages in Port Elizabeth. Following renovations, No. 7 Castle Hill, was opened as a Museum in 1965. \nThe two buildings 10-12 Castle Hill, were originally owned by Police Constable Sterley, date from about 1840, and together with the adjacent house at 7 Castle Hill, are typical examples of early English settler architecture of their time. They were declared a National Monument under old NMC legislation on 2 November 1973.\nPrince Alfred's Guard Drill Hall is located on the corners of Castle Hill, Prospect and Daly Streets in the center of Port Elizabeth. Built in 1880, the building is the headquarters of one of the oldest volunteer regiments in South Africa - the Prince Alfred's Guard (PAG) Regiment\nThe Athenæum was first declared as a national monument in 1980. It stands on Belmont Terrace, guarded by historic Port Elizabeth streets, Military Road and Castle Hill in the suburb of Central near the port. The building is one of the few examples of the classical style of architecture in the city and was designed by George William Smith. \nFort Fredrick is the city of Port Elizabeth's first structure. The fort was built at the mouth of the Baakens River in 1799 in order to defend against any invasion of French troops during the Napoleonic Wars. The French troops never invaded and the cannons were never fired. The cannons are still located in the area. \n\nSt George's Park is the oldest park in Port Elizabeth and is within walking distance of the city centre. The Park incorporates the internationally renowned Port Elizabeth Cricket Club, the founding cricket club in South Africa as well as the oldest bowling green in South Africa (named \"Founders Green\"), the St. George's Park Swimming Pool, Prince Alfred's Guard Memorial as well as the 1882 Victorian Pearson Conservatory, which was built for the cultivation of exotic plants, water lilies and orchids.\nTrinder Square was originally a natural wide pond used for watering cattle and horses. The pond has since been filled in and is used as a playground for children. Trinder was a family name of the merchants Joseph and William Smith who owned property nearby. \nIn 1824, the property was granted to George Daniel Diesel . The building was erected after that date and is richly decorated with a number of Victorian architectural elements. It accommodated numerous famous Port Elizabeth citizens, including its Harbour Master, the Civil Commissioner and James Somers Kirkwood, after whom the village was named. It was declared a National Monument under old NMC legislation on 9 December 1988.\n\nThe original portion of the manor-house known as Fleming House, together with the garden and the boundary wall fronting onto Bird Street, at 20 Bird Street, Port Elizabeth\nThe Georgian home was built in the 1850s to house soldiers guarding the port of Port Elizabeth. It now functions as a guesthouse. \nA catholic school established in 1867. Later, the Holy Rosary Convent, Marist Brothers College and Priory High then merged to form Trinity High School in 1983 \nThe Mannville Open Air Theatre which is located on the South-Western side of St George's Park, Park Drive, Central. The theatre is named after Bruce and the late Helen Mann. They chose the site in consultation with the then Director of Parks, because of the sheltered, quiet and sylvan area. Since the first production in 1972, a Summer Shakespearean Festival is presented in February every year. \nPearson Conservatory, a glass framed Victorian observatory, was constructed in 1882 and is located within Port Elizabeth's St Georges Park. It has undergone approximately R5,5m worth of renovation over the past 128 years. According to the National Heritage Resources Act of 1999, the building is listed as a Grade II structure of significance. \n\nPrince Alfred's Guard Memorial developed from a fusion of a military museum formerly housed in the Donkin Reserve complex and the regimental museum of the Prince Alfred’s Guard Regiment. \n\nThe house “Sundridge” was built by architect G W Smith in 1897 for A E Allen Smith and his wife Emily (born Savage) in the Art Nouveau style. In 1929 Herman Sammel converted it into the very modem Park Hotel by adding a large bedroom wing thereafter, a ballroom was also built. It has been the Nursing College since 1949 and the house has been restored. Sharley Cribb is remembered for her services in the cause of nursing reform. \n\nThe Horse Memorial is dedicated to the hundreds of thousands of horses that were transported to PE during the Anglo-Boer War between 1899 and 1902. Many of these horses died on-route, while being offloaded at the docks or during combat. The bronze statue showing a soldier kneeling at the head of a tired and thirsty horse was designed by British sculptor Joseph Whitehead, and cast in Surrey, England. The life-size statue was erected in 1905 and stands on a granite horse trough at the juncture of Russell Road and Cape Road. The statue is a protected National Heritage structure. \n\nThe Hill Presbyterian Church is situated at the corner of Belmont and Alfred Terrace. In 1861 the Rev. George Renny was brought to Port Elizabeth as minister to the Presbyterian community. Services were held in the Old Grey Institute while the present church was being constructed. It was consecrated in 1865. The architect was Mr F.M. Pfeil. \nThe school was named in honour of the Governor, in recognition of his contribution to education in the colony. Classes commenced in January 1859 for elementary classes and in April 1859 for the high school. A clock tower was added to the building in 1875. the high school was moved to new premises due to space constraints. The school then became known as the Albert Jackson School. The old building continued to serve the needs of the preparatory school. It was declared a National Monument under old NMC legislation on 10 December 1976.\n\nThe trail starts at the Donkin Reserve and Lighthouse, where a map of the trail can be purchased. The Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism Info Centre is located in the old lighthouse . The Opera House is also located here.\nThe pyramid was built in memory of Sir Rufane Donkin's wife Elizabeth on the hill which is now known as Donkin's Reserve\n\nThe Opera House was built in 1892 and was run mainly by candlelight. The Opera House is the oldest running theatre in Africa and is the only Victorian style theatre left on the continent. The Port Elizabeth Opera House and Barn Theatre are located halfway down Whites Road, Central. It was proclaimed a national monument in 1980.\nOther Sites include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2501949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2501949", "title": "Elsecar Heritage Centre", "text": "Elsecar Heritage Centre\n\nElsecar Heritage Centre is a living history centre in Elsecar, Barnsley, England.\n\nThe buildings were originally used for various industries including ironworks and forges, a distillery, and engineering workshops. These fell into decline when the coal mines in the village closed. \n\nIt has its own Elsecar goods station (called Rockingham Station) on the Elsecar Steam Railway, with a running shed behind the main centre. During some special events, trips are run to Hemingfield Basin. There are plans to extend the line to Cortonwood and build two stations (one at Cortonwood and the other at Hemingfield). The railway's depot is home to a selection of steam locomotives as well as a diesel locomotive.\n\nIt comprises shops, galleries, art studios and an exhibition hall. It runs craft workshops, special events, and a monthly antiques fair. \n\nElsecar Heritage Centre hosts the 16mm Garden Railway Show every year which is organised by the Yorkshire Group of 16mm Narrow Gauge Modellers Ltd.\n\nIn March 2017 it was announced that the \"Great Place Scheme\" a partnership between Arts Council England, the Heritage Lottery Fund and Historic England was to jointly fund Wentworth Woodhouse and Elsecar Heritage Centre with a £1,264,000 grant.\n\nThe centre is also the site of the only Newcomen beam engine in the world still in its original location. The Newcomen Engine was built at the instruction of William Wentworth, the 4th Earl Fitzwilliam. It was used to pump water out of Elsecar New Colliery and ran from 1795 until 1923 when it was replaced by electric pumps. The date over the door of the Engine House is 1787, but there is some dispute that the engine was not actually installed until 1795. In 1836 the Graham brothers, a local partnership cast a new beam and two parallel motions for the Newcomen engine. It also ran briefly in 1928 when the electric pumps were overwhelmed by flooding. At its peak it could draw 600 gallons a minute. In 1972 the engine was classified as a scheduled ancient monument. The engine was restored to working order (worked by hydraulics) over the period 2012–14.\n\n"}
{"id": "12020656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12020656", "title": "Franjo Rački", "text": "Franjo Rački\n\nFranjo Rački (25 November 1828 – 13 February 1894) was a Croatian historian, politician and writer. He compiled important collections of old Croatian diplomatic and historical documents, wrote some pioneering historical works, and was a key founder of the Yugoslav Academy of Sciences and Arts.\n\nRački was born in Fužine, near Rijeka. He completed his secondary education in Senj and Varaždin. He graduated theology in Senj, where he was ordained Catholic priest by the bishop Ožegović in 1852. Rački received his PhD in theology in Vienna in 1855.\n\nHis career as a historian began as soon as he started working as a teacher in Senj. An industrious man, full of patriotic fervor, Rački organized the research of Glagolitic documents on the islands of Kvarner. He often went to the village of Baška on Krk, the location of the famous Baška Tablet. After analyzing the tablet for a long time, he published \"Viek i djelovanje sv. Cirilla i Methoda slavjamkih apošlolov\" (The Age and Activities of Saints Cyril and Methodius, the Apostles among the Slavs).\n\nHe was moved from Senj to Rome in 1857. There he worked in the Croatian Institute of St Jerome for three years, in difficult circumstances. He went around Roman archives in search of documents on Croatian history. He also attended courses in paleography and related historical sciences.\n\nIn Rome he found many documents on Bogomils, collected by the Catholic Church during the medieval struggle against that heresy. Fifteen years later, Rački would publish \"Bogomili i Patareni\", a milestone in the research on the Bosnian Church. In the book, Rački founded the \"Bogomil hypothesis\", saying that the Bosnian Church was influenced by the dualist heretic teachings from Bulgaria, originating in the 9th century. As it was very controversial and intriguing, that theory dominated the research for most of the 19th and 20th centuries, but its general premises have been mostly refuted.\n\nAlthough Rački is more important as a promoter of culture than as a historian, his original historical works are important for their pioneering nature and wealth of information. Aside from the mentioned \"Bogomili i patareni\", he wrote \"Povjesnik Ivan Lučić\" (The Historian Joannes Lucius), \"Nutarnje stanje Hrvatske prije XII. stoljeća\" (The Internal Organization of Croatia Before the 12th Century), \"Stari grb bosanski\" (The Old Bosnian Coat of Arms), \"Povelje bosanskog kralja Tvrtka\" (Documents of the Bosnian king Tvrtko). The pinnacle of his scientific work is the monumental \"Documenta historiae Croaticae periodum antiaquam illustrantia\".\n\nHe started \"Književnik\", the first Croatian scientific magazine for history and linguistics, and \"Obzor\" and \"Vijenac\", very influential magazines for culture and politics. He was a key founder of the Yugoslavian Academy of Sciences and Arts and greatly contributed to the expansion of the University of Zagreb. Rački founded most editions of the Academy, which are published even today: \"Rad\", \"Starine\", and the \"Codex diplomaticus Regni Croatiae, Dalmatiae et Slavoniae\", an exceptional monument of legal history. He founded the Academy library, archive and dictionary. His activities determined the work of the Academy for several decades, especially in its cultural and social aspects.\n\nIn 1861, as the church representative from Senj, he became a member of the Croatian Parliament, convened after a pause of 12 years. Along with Ante Starčević, Rački was the only peasant's child in the parliament.\n\nRački was a prolific political writer. He wrote about all the important Croatia-related topics and issues of his time. He promoted the merging of Dalmatia with Croatia ruled by the \"ban\", he wrote discussions about the Croatian nature of Srijem and Rijeka, but he spent most energy on analyzing the relationships between Croatia and Hungary, fighting against the Hungarian expansionism. Along with the bishop Josip Juraj Strossmayer, Rački was a partisan of the idea of Yugoslavia. They both promoted the cultural and political unity of the South Slavs.\n\nHe died in Zagreb.\n\n"}
{"id": "47576553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47576553", "title": "Freedom and Destiny", "text": "Freedom and Destiny\n\nFreedom and Destiny: Gender, Family and Popular Culture in India is a book consisting of eight essays by Indian feminist and sociologist Patricia Uberoi. The book, which was published by Oxford University Press in New Delhi in 2006 looks at the site of popular culture to examine institutions such as the Indian Family, the conjugal unit, the symbol of the woman as well as the iconography of the baby and child in the Indian imagination. The essays in the book, with the exception of the introduction, had previously appeared in various books and journals. The disparate essays were collected into a volume. Patricia Uberoi begins the volume by reflecting on the wider implications of the misspelled epithet 'Beautiful Wife, Denger Life' seen at the back of a New Delhi truck. These reflections form a starting point for the essays that follow in the volume.\n\nThe book which is divided into eight chapters looks at three sites of popular culture in order to identify the contradictions built into family and social life. These are the sites of Calendar Art, Popular Cinema and Romance Fiction.\n\nPatricia Uberoi traces the calendar art form ( mass-produced colour prints) in India back to its early imaginings in the late nineteenth century colonial India. She examines how the highly visibilized figure of the woman's body in this art form is both cemented as an object of desire and presented as a commodity for sale. However the figure of the woman is not only contained in the lens of commodification and objectification but also becomes a symbol of a consistently modernising nation. Representations of Hindu Goddesses, either as consorts of Hindu Gods or in their capacities as mothers are also examined for their social and political implications. Varied notions of femininity and womanliness are examined through this medium. Uberoi's work joins a number of emerging discourses on the print economies and varied interpretations of calendar art. The iconography of the baby or child in calendar art is also noted in the book. Babies are variedly represented as the God-Baby, the Welcome Baby, the Hero Baby, the Citizen Baby, and the Customized Baby. Uberoi does not only examine the art form but also reflects upon the socio-political economies that contributed to its emergence and popularity.\n\nUberoi uses four extremely popular Bollywood films – \"Sahib, Bibi aur Ghulam\", \"Hum Aapke Hain Kaun\", \"Dilwale Dulhania Le Jaayenge\" and \"Pardes\" to examine a variety of themes, ideas and institutions reproduced in Hindi Cinema as well as to comment on the general conventions of the art form, which spaces allow for patriarchal power to be reinforced and which spaces allow for a subversion of this power. The chapter on Sahib, Bibi aur Ghulam explores how the cinematic narrative focuses on the tussle between individual desire and social duty and freedom and destiny within the man-woman relationship. The chapter on Hum Aapke Hain Kaun is an ethnography of the viewing of the film and is a close look at the Indian Family and how it negotiates power and duty. Through her examination of the films \"Pardes\" and \"Dilwale Dulhania Le Jaayenge\", Uberoi looks at the Indian Diaspora and notions of home and country.\n\nPatricia Uberoi looks at how the narratives of romantic fiction published in the English Language magazine \"Woman's Era\" serves important and cautionary functions for its women readers. Uberoi takes care to mention that this art form is not received in exactly the same way that romance fiction in the West is received even though the plots and styles may sound similar. This section looks at how the often formulaic plots offer up a range of plattitudes for happy hetero-normative conjugal and family life.\n\nIn the preface to the book, Uberoi explains that she had intended the title of the book to be 'Dharma and Desire' in order to encapsulate Indian feminists engagement with the tussle between female desire and 'culturally normative expectations of feminine deportment.' She later changed the title to \"Freedom and Destiny\" so that one could identify the moral economy of family and social life as well see how notions of modernity ruptured individual autonomy and freedom for both men and women.\n\n"}
{"id": "1130869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1130869", "title": "Genryaku", "text": "Genryaku\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "208215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208215", "title": "Geochronology", "text": "Geochronology\n\nGeochronology is the science of determining the age of rocks, fossils, and sediments using signatures inherent in the rocks themselves. Absolute geochronology can be accomplished through radioactive isotopes, whereas relative geochronology is provided by tools such as palaeomagnetism and stable isotope ratios. By combining multiple geochronological (and biostratigraphic) indicators the precision of the recovered age can be improved.\n\nGeochronology is different in application from biostratigraphy, which is the science of assigning sedimentary rocks to a known geological period via describing, cataloguing and comparing fossil floral and faunal assemblages. Biostratigraphy does not \"directly\" provide an absolute age determination of a rock, but merely places it within an \"interval\" of time at which that fossil assemblage is known to have coexisted. Both disciplines work together hand in hand however, to the point where they share the same system of naming rock layers and the time spans utilized to classify layers within a stratum.\n\nThe science of geochronology is the prime tool used in the discipline of chronostratigraphy, which attempts to derive absolute age dates for all fossil assemblages and determine the geologic history of the Earth and extraterrestrial bodies.\n\nBy measuring the amount of radioactive decay of a radioactive isotope with a known half-life, geologists can establish the absolute age of the parent material. A number of radioactive isotopes are used for this purpose, and depending on the rate of decay, are used for dating different geological periods. More slowly decaying isotopes are useful for longer periods of time, but less accurate in absolute years. With the exception of the radiocarbon method, most of these techniques are actually based on measuring an increase in the abundance of a radiogenic isotope, which is the decay-product of the radioactive parent isotope. Two or more radiometric methods can be used in concert to achieve more robust results. Most radiometric methods are suitable for geological time only, but some such as the radiocarbon method and the Ar/Ar dating method can be extended into the time of early human life and into recorded history.\n\nSome of the commonly used techniques are:\n\nA series of related techniques for determining the age at which a geomorphic surface was created (exposure dating), or at which formerly surficial materials were buried (burial dating). Exposure dating uses the concentration of exotic nuclides (e.g. Be, Al, Cl) produced by cosmic rays interacting with Earth materials as a proxy for the age at which a surface, such as an alluvial fan, was created. Burial dating uses the differential radioactive decay of 2 cosmogenic elements as a proxy for the age at which a sediment was screened by burial from further cosmic rays exposure.\n\nLuminescence dating techniques observe 'light' emitted from materials such as quartz, diamond, feldspar, and calcite. Many types of luminescence techniques are utilized in geology, including optically stimulated luminescence (OSL), cathodoluminescence (CL), and thermoluminescence (TL). Thermoluminescence and optically stimulated luminescence are used in archaeology to date 'fired' objects such as pottery or cooking stones, and can be used to observe sand migration.\n\nIncremental dating techniques allow the construction of year-by-year annual chronologies, which can be fixed (\"i.e.\" linked to the present day and thus calendar or sidereal time) or floating.\n\n\nA sequence of paleomagnetic poles (usually called virtual geomagnetic poles), which are already well defined in age, constitutes an apparent polar wander path (APWP). Such path is constructed for a large continental block. APWPs for different continents can be used as a reference for newly obtained poles for the rocks with unknown age. For paleomagnetic dating it is suggested to use the APWP in order to date a pole obtained from rocks or sediments of unknown age by linking the paleopole to the nearest point on the APWP. Two methods of paleomagnetic dating have been suggested (1) Angular method and (2) Rotation method. First method is used for paleomagnetic dating of rocks inside of the same continental block. Second method is used for the folded areas where tectonic rotations are possible.\n\nMagnetostratigraphy determines age from the pattern of magnetic polarity zones in a series of bedded sedimentary and/or volcanic rocks by comparison to the magnetic polarity timescale. The polarity timescale has been previously determined by dating of seafloor magnetic anomalies, radiometrically dating volcanic rocks within magnetostratigraphic sections, and astronomically dating magnetostratigraphic sections.\n\nGlobal trends in isotope compositions, particularly Carbon 13 and strontium isotopes, can be used to correlate strata.\n\nMarker horizons are stratigraphic units of the same age and of such distinctive composition and appearance, that despite their presence in different geographic sites, there is certainty about their age-equivalence. Fossil faunal and floral assemblages, both marine and terrestrial, make for distinctive marker horizons. Tephrochronology is a method for geochemical correlation of unknown volcanic ash (tephra) to geochemically fingerprinted, dated tephra. Tephra is also often used as a dating tool in archaeology, since the dates of some eruptions are well-established.\n\nIt is important not to confuse geochronologic and chronostratigraphic units. Geochronological units are periods of time, thus it is correct to say that \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" lived during the Late Cretaceous Epoch. Chronostratigraphic units are geological material, so it is also correct to say that fossils of the genus \"Tyrannosaurus\" have been found in the Upper Cretaceous Series. In the same way, it is entirely possible to go and visit an Upper Cretaceous Series deposit – such as the Hell Creek deposit where the \"Tyrannosaurus\" fossils were found – but it is naturally impossible to visit the Late Cretaceous Epoch as that is a period of time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1666749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666749", "title": "George Norman Clark", "text": "George Norman Clark\n\nSir George Norman Clark, (27 February 1890 – 6 February 1979) was an English historian, academic and British Army officer. He was the Chichele Professor of Economic History at the University of Oxford from 1931 to 1943 and the Regius Professor of Modern History at The University of Cambridge from 1943 to 1947. He served as Provost of Oriel College, Oxford from 1947 to 1957.\n\nClark was born on 27 February 1890 in Halifax, Yorkshire, England, to James Walker Clark and his wife Mary Clark (née Midgley). He was educated at Bootham School, an independent boarding school in York, and at Manchester Grammar School, a Grammar School in Manchester.\n\nIn 1908, he matriculated into Balliol College, Oxford to study classics as a Brackenbury Scholar. In 1911, he achieved a first class in \"Literae Humaniores\". He then changed to modern history and graduated in 1912 with a first class honours Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree. In 1912, he was elected to a prize fellowship at All Souls College, Oxford and spent time abroad learning foreign languages.\n\nClark had been a member of the Officers' Training Corps attached to the University of Oxford during his studies. On 26 August 1914, he was commissioned into the Post Office Rifles, British Army, as a second lieutenant. On 27 May 1915, he was promoted to lieutenant. During the early part of World War I, he was wounded twice.\n\nIn May 1916, while fighting in the Battle of Vimy Ridge, he was taken prisoner by the Germans. At the time of his capture, he held the rank of captain. He was held in Gütersloh and Krefeld, and spent his time learning languages. He was also involved in writing plays for fellow prisoners to perform, one of which was performed postwar at the Haymarket Theatre, London. He was released at the end of hostilities and returned to Britain.\n\nHaving been elected a Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford in 1912, Clark's academic career truly started in 1919 when he was elected a Fellow and lecturer of Oriel College, Oxford.\n\nHe became the inaugural Chichele Professor of Economic History at the University of Oxford in 1931 (with the accompanying Fellowship at All Souls), a post he held until 1943. From then until 1947 he was Regius Professor of Modern History at Cambridge University and a fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Between 1947 and 1957, he was Provost of Oriel College, Oxford.\n\nClark wrote a general introduction to the second edition of the \"Cambridge Modern History\" (1957), criticising the belief of some historians (in particular Lord Acton who had edited the first edition over half a century earlier) that eventually it would be possible to write an \"ultimate history\", rather they should expect their works to be built on and superseded by later historians. He stated that \"knowledge of the past has come down through one or more human minds, has been processed by them, and therefore cannot consist of elemental and impersonal atoms which nothing can alter...\"\n\nBetween the 1930s and 1960s, Clark was the editor overseeing the \"Oxford History of England\" series and wrote Volume X: \"The Later Stuarts, 1660–1714\" (1934), which was the first of the series to be published. His \"The Seventeenth Century\" appeared in 1929, and he wrote numerous other monographs. He was twice editor of the \"English Historical Review\".\n\nHe delivered the Wiles Lectures in the Queen's University of Belfast in October 1956. They were published as \"War and Society in the Seventeenth Century\" (Cambridge UP, 1958).\n\nHe was knighted in 1953. Clark was elected Fellow of the British Academy (FBA) in 1936. He was a Foreign Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "2200400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2200400", "title": "German Eastern Marches Society", "text": "German Eastern Marches Society\n\nGerman Eastern Marches Society (, also known in German as ') was a German radical, extremely nationalist xenophobic organization founded in 1894. Mainly among Poles, it was sometimes known acronymically as \"Hakata\" or \"H-K-T\" after its founders von Hansemann, Kennemann and von T\"'iedemann. Its main aims were the promotion of Germanization of Poles living in Prussia and destruction of Polish national identity in German eastern provinces. Contrary to many similar nationalist organizations created in that period, the Ostmarkenverein had relatively close ties with the government and local administration, which made it largely successful, even though it opposed both the policy of seeking some \"modo vivendi\" with the Poles pursued by Chancellor Theobald von Bethmann Hollweg and Leo von Caprivi's policies of relaxation of anti-Polish measures. While of limited significance and often overrated, the organization formed a notable part of German anti-democratic pluralist part of the political landscape of the Wilhelmine era.\n\nInitially formed in Posen, in 1896 its main headquarters was moved to Berlin. In 1901 it had roughly 21,000 members, the number rose to 48,000 in 1913, though some authors claim the membership was as high as 220,000. After Poland was re-established following World War I in 1918, the society continued its rump activities in the Weimar Republic until it was closed down by the Nazis in 1934 who created the new organisation with similar activity Bund Deutscher Osten.\n\nFollowing the Partitions of Poland in late 18th century, a large part of the former Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth (namely the regions of Greater Poland and Royal, the later West Prussia) was annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia, the predecessor of the German Empire, which was formed in 1871. Primarily inhabited by Poles, Greater Poland initially was formed into a semi-autonomous Grand Duchy of Posen, granted with a certain level of self-governance. However, under Otto von Bismarck's government, the ethnic and cultural tensions in the region began to rise. This was paired by growing tendencies of nationalism, imperialism, and chauvinism within the German society. The tendencies went in two different directions, but were linked to each other. On one hand, a new world order was demanded with desires of creating a German colonial empire. And on the other, feelings of hostility towards other national groups within the German state were growing.\n\nThe situation was further aggravated by Bismarck's policies of Kulturkampf that in Posen Province took on a much more nationalistic character than in other parts of Germany and included a number of specifically anti-Polish laws that resulted in the Polish and German communities living in a virtual apartheid. Many observers believed these policies only further stoked the Polish independence movement. There is also a question regarding possible personal antipathy towards Poles behind Bismarck's motivation in pursuing the Kulturkampf. Unlike in other parts of the German Empire, in Greater Poland—then known under the German name of \"Provinz Posen\"—the Kulturkampf did not cease after the end of the decade. Although Bismarck finally signed an informal alliance with the Catholic Church against the socialists, the policies of Germanization did continue in Polish-inhabited parts of the country. However, with the end of von Bismarck's rule and the advent of Leo von Caprivi, the pressure for Germanisation was lessened and many German landowners feared that this would lead to lessening the German control over the Polish areas and in the end deprive Germany of what they saw as a natural reservoir of workforce and land. Although the actual extent of von Caprivi's concessions towards the Poles was very limited, the German minority of Greater Poland feared that this was a step too far, and that von Caprivi's government would cede the power in Greater Poland to the Polish clergy and nobility. The Hakata slogan was: \"You are standing opposite to the most dangerous, fanatic enemy of German existence, German honour and German reputation in the world: The Poles.\"\n\nUnder such circumstances a number of nationalist organizations and pressure groups was formed, all collectively known as the \"nationale Verbände\". Among them were the Pan-German League, German Navy League, German Colonial Society, German Anti-Semitic Organization, and the Defence League. Many landowners feared that their interests would not be properly represented by those organizations and decided to form their own society. It was officially launched November 3, 1894 in Poznań, then referred to under its German name of \"Posen\". The opening meeting elected an assembly and a general committee composed of 227 members, among them 104 from the Province of Posen and Province of West Prussia, and additional 113 from other parts of German Empire. The social base of the newly founded society was wide and included a large spectrum of people. Some 60% of the representatives of areas of Germany primarily inhabited by Poles were the Junkers, the landed aristocracy, mostly with ancient feudal roots. The rest were all groups of middle class Germans, that is civil servants (30%), teachers (25%), merchants, craftsmen, Protestant priests, and clerks.\n\nThe official aims of the society was \"strengthening and rallying of Germandom in the Eastern Marches through the revival and consolidation of German national feeling and the economic strengthening of the German people\" in the area. This was seen as justified due to alleged passivity of Germans in the eastern territories. Officially it was to work for the Germans rather than against the Poles. However, in reality the aims of the society were anti-Polish and aimed at ousting the Polish landowners and peasants from their land at all cost. It was argued that the Poles were an insidious threat to German national and cultural integrity and domination in the east. The propagandistic rationale behind formation of the H-K-T was presented as a national Polish-German struggle to assimilate one group into the other. It was argued that either the Poles would be successfully Germanized, or the Germans living in the east would face the Polonization themselves. This conflict was often portrayed as a constant biological struggle between the \"eastern barbarity\" and \"European culture\". To counter the alleged threat, the Society promoted the destruction of Polish national identity in the Polish lands held by Germany, and prevention of \"polonization\" of the Eastern Marches, that is the growing national sentiment amongst local Poles paired with migration of Poles from rural areas to the cities of the region.\n\nIn accordance with the views of Chancellor von Bismarck himself, the Society saw the language question as a key factor in determining one's loyalty towards the state. Because of this view, it insisted on extending the ban on usage of the Polish language in schools, to other instances of everyday life, including public meetings, books, and newspapers. During a 1902 meeting in Danzig (modern Gdańsk), the Society demanded from the government that the Polish language be banned even from voluntary classes in schools and universities, that the language be banned from public usage and that the Polish language newspapers be either liquidated or forced to be printed in bilingual versions.\n\nWith limited local success and support, the Ostmarkenverein functioned primarily as a nationwide propaganda and pressure group. Its press organ, the \"Die Ostmark\" (Eastern March) was one of the primary sources of information on the \"Polish Question\" for the German public and shaped the national-conservative views towards the ethnic conflict in the eastern territories of Germany. The Society also opened a number of libraries in the Polish-dominated areas, where it supported the literary production of books and novels promoting an aggressive stance against the Poles. The popular \"Ostmarkenromane\"(Ostmark novels) depicted Poles as non-white and struggled to portray a two race dichotomy between \"black\" Poles and \"white\" Germans\n\nHowever, it did not limit itself to mere cultural struggle for domination but also promoted a physical removal of the Poles from their lands in order to make space for the German colonization. The pressure of the H-K-T indeed made the government of von Caprivi adopt a firmer stance against the Poles. The ban on Polish schools was reintroduced and all teaching was to be done in German language. The ban was also used by the German police to harass the Polish trade union movement as they interpreted all public meetings as educational undertakings.\n\nAn important issue was the colonisation of Polish territory: the organisation actively supported the nationalist policy of Germanisation through removal of Polish population and promoting settlement of ethnic Germans in the eastern regions of the German Empire. It was among the main supporters of creation of the Settlement Commission, an official authority with a fund to buy up the land from the Poles and redistribute it among German settlers. Since 1905 the organisation also proposed and lobbied for a law that would allow forced eviction of Polish owners of land, and succeed in 1908 when the law was eventually passed. However, it remained on paper in the following years, to which the H-K-T responded with large scale propaganda campaign in the press. The campaign proved to be successful and on October 12, 1912 the Prussian government issued a decision allowing eviction of Polish property owners in Greater Poland.\n\nAlthough the H-K-T is to this day primarily associated with the Junkers, it was one of the groups to oppose the Society's goals the most. Initially treated with reserve by most of the conservative Prussian aristocracy, with time it became actively opposed by many of them. The Society opposed any immigration of Poles from the Russian Poland to the area, while the Junkers gained large profits from seasonal workers migrating there every year, mostly from other parts of Poland. Also the German colonists brought to formerly Polish lands by the Settlement Commission or the German government largely benefited from the cooperation with their Polish neighbours and mostly either ignored the \"Hakatisten\" or even actively opposed their ideas. This made the Ostmarkenverein an organization formed mostly by the German bourgeoisie and settlers, that is middle class members of the local administration, and not the Prussian Junkers. Other notable group of supporters included the local artisans and businessmen, whose interests were endangered by the organic work, that is the Polish response to the economical competition promoted by the Settlement Commission and other similar organizations. In a sample probe of H-K-T's members, the social classes represented were as follows:\n\nBy 1913 the Society had roughly 48,000 members. Despite its fierce rhetoric, support from the local administration and certain popularity of its goals, the Society proved to be largely unsuccessful as were the projects it promoted. Much like other similar organizations, the H-K-T not only managed to incite some public awareness to the \"Polish Question\" within German public and radicalise the German policies in the area, but also sparked a Polish reaction. As an effect of the external pressure, the Poles living in the German Empire started to organize themselves in order to prevent the plans of Germanisation. In addition, the main opposition centre on the Polish side became the middle class rather than aristocracy, which strengthened the Polish resistance and intensified the national sentiment within the Polish society. Also, the pressure from the German nationalists resulted in strengthening the Polish national-democrats, particularly the Polish National-Democratic Party of Roman Dmowski, and Wojciech Korfanty.\n\nFor instance, the Settlement Commission throughout the 27 years of its existence managed to plant about 25,000 German families on 1,240 km² (479 mi²) of land in Greater Poland and Pomerania. However, at the same time the reaction of Polish societies resulted in about 35,000 new Polish farmers being settled in the area of roughly 1,500 km² (579 mi²) of land. Similarly, the attempts at banning the teaching of religion in Polish language met with a nationwide resistance and several school strikes that sparked a campaign in foreign media.\n\nAll in all, even though the H-K-T Society was not the most influential and its exact influence on the German governments is disputable, it was among the best-heard and for the Polish people became one of the symbols of oppression, chauvinism, and national discrimination, thus poisoning the Polish-German relations both in the borderland and in entire Germany. On the eve of World War I the nationalisms on both sides ran high and the liberal politicians who were seeking some compromise with the German Empire were seen as traitors, while German politicians trying to tone down the aggressive rhetoric on both sides were under attack from the Hakatisten. This situation proved vital to the failure of German plans of creation of Mitteleuropa during the Great War, as the Polish political scene was taken over mostly by politicians hostile to Germany.\n\nThe works of the Ostmarkenverein practically ceased during the war. At its end, some of its members joined the \"Deutsche Vereinigung\" (\"German Association\"), a society that aimed at preventing newly restored Poland from acquiring the lands that were formerly in Prussia. Many more of its members feared possible Polish reprisals after the take-over of Greater Poland, Pomerania and Silesia, and were among the first to pack their belongings and head westwards after the armistice, while others stayed in the lands that were taken over by Poland, protected by the Minority Treaty. Even though the Ostmarkenverein had lost its main rationale as Germany had no influence over the lands of the Republic of Poland, it continued to exist in a rump form. Headed from Berlin, it tried to force the government of the Weimar Republic to use the threat of reprisals against the remaining Polish minority in Germany in order to win further concessions for the German minority in Poland. However, the post-war government of Gustav Stresemann mostly rejected the pleas as there were many more Germans in Poland than Poles in Germany, and such a tit-for-tat tactics would harm the German side more. The Society continued to exist in Berlin, limiting its activities mostly to a press campaign and rhetoric, but its meaning was seriously limited. Finally, after the advent of Adolf Hitler's rule in Germany, it was disbanded by the Nazis. Some of its former members, now living in Poland, remained members of other German societies and organizations, and formed the core of the German Fifth column during the German Invasion of Poland of 1939.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3813398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3813398", "title": "Gordon Barnhart", "text": "Gordon Barnhart\n\nGordon Leslie Barnhart, (born January 22, 1945) is a former Clerk of the Senate of Canada and the Saskatchewan Legislature, as well as former Secretary of the University of Saskatchewan. He was the 20th Lieutenant-Governor of Saskatchewan from 2006 until 2012. He was the interim President of the University of Saskatchewan as from May 21, 2014 until October 24, 2015.\n\nBarnhart was born in Saltcoats, Saskatchewan. He completed his Bachelor of Arts in history in 1967 and in 1968, he took a job teaching grades 10 and 11 history at North Battleford Collegiate Institute (now North Battleford Comprehensive High School). In 1968, after only four months of teaching, he was appointed Clerk of the Saskatchewan Legislative Assembly, the youngest to take on such a position across the Commonwealth. During his tenure, he worked on his Master of Arts at the University of Regina, completing it in 1977.\n\nIn 1989, Governor General Jeanne Sauvé, on the advice of Prime Minister Brian Mulroney, appointed Barnhart to Clerk of the Senate, and thereby Clerk of the Parliaments. After five years, which included contributing to the failed Charlottetown Accord, he resigned from his position in the Senate. He returned to the University of Saskatchewan, where he completed his Doctorate in 1998.\n\nFrom 2000 to 2005, he served as Secretary of the University of Saskatchewan. He retired to teach political studies classes, specializing in Canadian politics, government and the Canadian Senate.\n\nIn 2001, Barnhart's book \"Peace, Progress and Prosperity\" (), which provided the first detailed biography of Saskatchewan's first premier, Thomas Walter Scott, was first published. Some of his other works include \"Saskatchewan's Premiers of the Twentieth Century\", \"Building for the Future; a photo journal of Saskatchewan's Legislative Building\" and \"Parliamentary Committees: Enhancing Democratic Governance\".\n\nOn April 28, 2006, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that Gordon Barnhart would replace Lynda Haverstock as Lieutenant-Governor of Saskatchewan. He was sworn in on August 1, 2006. Barnhart's term ended on March 22, 2012, when he was replaced by Vaughn Solomon Schofield.\n\nThe University of Saskatchewan announced that Barnhart would return to the faculty of the Department of History as of April 1, 2012 as an adjunct professor.\n\nOn May 21, 2014, it was announced that Barnhart had been appointed interim President at the University of Saskatchewan to replace Ilene Busch-Vishniac who was fired. As such, he becomes the first former Lieutenant Governor to serve in this capacity. He served as president until October 24, 2015, when he was succeeded by Peter Stoicheff.\n\nOn June 30, 2014, Barnhart was named a Member of the Order of Canada.\n\nAs lieutenant-governor, Barnhart carries out such duties as reading throne speeches, swearing in premiers and cabinet ministers, opening legislative sessions, approving legislation and bestowing honours to Saskatchewan citizens.\n\nUpon being sworn in, Barnhart expressed his respect and admiration for his predecessors. As an academic, he expects to focus his efforts on education. He also plans on travelling a great deal to continue the office's accessibility to average Saskatchewanians provided by Haverstock.\n\nBarnhart hosted hundreds of visitors on the occasion of his first New Year's Levee at Government House in 2007, a traditional event that lieutenant-governors in Regina have hosted since 1884.\n\nBarnhart also initiated the \"Lieutenant-Governor's Leadership Forum\", which will accept eighteen grade 11 and 12 students each year from 2007 till 2011 to tour the province, meet successful leaders in various fields, and to develop the students' own leadership abilities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3978097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3978097", "title": "Greater Iran", "text": "Greater Iran\n\nGreater Iran (, ) is a term used to refer to the regions of the Caucasus, West Asia, Central Asia, and parts of South Asia that have significant Iranian cultural influence due to having been either long historically ruled by the various imperial dynasties of Persian Empire (such as those of the Medes, Achaemenids, Parthians, Sassanians, Samanids, Safavids, and Afsharids and the Qajars), having considerable aspects of Persian culture due to extensive contact with the various imperial dynasties of Iran (e.g., those regions and peoples in the North Caucasus that were not under direct Iranian rule), or are simply nowadays still inhabited by a significant amount of Iranic peoples who patronize their respective cultures (as it goes for the western parts of South Asia, Bahrain and Tajikistan). It roughly corresponds to the territory on the Iranian plateau and its bordering plains. The Encyclopædia Iranica uses the term \"Iranian Cultural Continent\" for this region.\n\nThe term Greater Iran is not limited to the modern state of Iran, but includes all the territory ruled by the Iranians throughout the history, including Mesopotamia, Eastern Anatolia, all of the Caucasus and Central Asia. The concept of Greater Iran has its source in the history of the Achaemenid Empire in Persis (modern day Pars region), and overlaps to a certain extent with the history of Iran.\n\nIn recent centuries, Iran lost many of the territories conquered under the Safavid and Qajar dynasties, including Iraq to the Ottomans (via the Treaty of Amasya in 1555 and the Treaty of Zuhab in 1639), western Afghanistan to the British (via the Treaty of Paris in 1857 and the MacMahon Arbitration in 1905), and all its Caucasus territories to Russia during the Russo-Persian Wars in the course of the 19th century. The Treaty of Gulistan in 1813 resulted in Iran ceding Dagestan, Georgia, and most of Azerbaijan to Russia. The Turkmanchey Treaty of 1828 decisively ended centuries of Iranian control of its Caucasian provinces, and made Iran cede what is present-day Armenia, the remainder of Azerbaijan and Igdir (eastern Turkey), and set the modern boundary along the Aras River.\n\nOn the Nowruz of 1935, the endonym \"Iran\" was adopted as the official international name of Persia by its ruler Reza Shah Pahlavi. However, in 1959, the government of Mohammad Reza Shah Pahlavi, Reza Shah Pahlavi's son, announced that both \"Persia\" and \"Iran\" could officially be used interchangeably.\n\nThe name \"Irān\", meaning \"land of the Aryans\", is the New Persian continuation of the old genitive plural \"aryānām\" (proto-Iranian, meaning \"of the Aryans\"), first attested in the Avesta as \"airyānąm\" (the text of which is composed in Avestan, an old Iranian language spoken in northeastern Greater Iran, or in what are now Turkmenistan and Tajikistan). The proto-Iranian term \"aryānām\" is present in the term \"Airyana Vaēǰah\", the homeland of Zoroaster and Zoroastrianism, near the provinces of Sogdiana, Margiana, Bactria, etc., listed in the first chapter of the Vidēvdād. The Avestan evidence is confirmed by Greek sources: Arianē is spoken of as being between Persia and the Indian subcontinent. However, this is a Greek pronunciation of the name Haroyum/Haraiva (Herat), which the Greeks called 'Aria'. A land listed separately from the homeland of the Aryans.\n\nWhile up until the end of the Parthian period in the 3rd century CE, the idea of \"Irān\" had an ethnic, linguistic, and religious value, it did not yet have a political import. The idea of an \"Iranian\" empire or kingdom in a political sense is a purely Sasanian one. It was the result of a convergence of interests between the new dynasty and the Zoroastrian clergy, as we can deduce from the available evidence. This convergence gave rise to the idea of an Ērān-šahr \"Kingdom of the Iranians\", which was \"ēr\" (Middle Persian equivalent of Old Persian \"ariya\" and Avestan \"airya\").\n\nRichard Nelson Frye defines Greater Iran as including \"much of the Caucasus, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Central Asia, with cultural influences extending to China and western India.\" According to Frye, \"Iran means all lands and peoples where Iranian languages were and are spoken, and where in the past, multi-faceted Iranian cultures existed.\"\n\nRichard Foltz notes that while \"A general assumption is often made that the various Iranian peoples of 'greater Iran'—a cultural area that stretched from Mesopotamia and the Caucasus into Khwarizm, Transoxiana, Bactria, and the Pamirs and included Persians, Medes, Parthians and Sogdians among others—were all 'Zoroastrians' in pre-Islamic times... This view, even though common among serious scholars, is almost certainly overstated.\" Foltz argues that \"While the various Iranian peoples did indeed share a common pantheon and pool of religious myths and symbols, in actuality a variety of deities were worshipped—particularly Mitra, the god of covenants, and Anahita, the goddess of the waters, but also many others—depending on the time, place, and particular group concerned\".\nTo the Ancient Greeks, Greater Iran ended at the Indus River located in Pakistan.\n\nAccording to J. P. Mallory and Douglas Q. Adams most of Western \"greater Iran\" spoke Southwestern Iranian languages in the Achaemenid era while the Eastern territory spoke Eastern Iranian languages related to Avestan.\n\nGeorge Lane also states that after the dissolution of the Mongol Empire, the Ilkhanids became rulers of greater Iran and Uljaytu, according to Judith G. Kolbas, was the ruler of this expanse between 1304–1317 A.D.\n\nPrimary sources, including Timurid historian Mir Khwand, define Iranshahr (Greater Iran) as extending from the Euphrates to the Oxus\n\nTraditionally, and until recent times, ethnicity has never been a defining separating criterion in these regions. In the words of Richard Nelson Frye:\n\nOnly in modern times did western colonial intervention and ethnicity tend to become a dividing force between the provinces of Greater Iran. As Patrick Clawson states, \"ethnic nationalism is largely a nineteenth century phenomenon, even if it is fashionable to retroactively extend it.\" \"Greater Iran\" however has been more of a cultural super-state, rather than a political one to begin with.\n\nIn the work \"Nuzhat al-Qolub\" (), the medieval geographer Hamdallah Mustawfi wrote:\n\"Some cities in Iran are above the rest,\"\n\n\"better and more productive due to good weather,\"\n\n\"Ganja full of treasure in Arran, and Esfahān in Iraq,\"\n\n\"Merv and Tus in Khorasan, and Konya (Aqsara) in Rome (Anatolia).\"\n\nThe \"Cambridge History of Iran\" takes a geographical approach in referring to the \"historical and cultural\" entity of \"Greater Iran\" as \"areas of Iran, parts of Afghanistan, and Chinese and Soviet Central Asia\". A detailed list of these territories follows in this article.\n\nGreater Iran is called \"Iranzamin\" () which means \"The Land of Iran\". \"Iranzamin\" was in the mythical times opposed to the \"Turanzamin\" the Land of Turan, which was located in the upper part of Central Asia.\n\nIn the pre-Islamic period, Iranians distinguished two main regions in the territory they ruled, one Iran and the other \"Aniran\". By Iran they meant all the regions inhabited by ancient Iranian peoples, this region was more extensive in the past. This notion of \"Iran\" as a territory (opposed to \"Aniran\") can be seen as the core of early Greater Iran. Later many changes occurred in the boundaries and areas where Iranians lived but the languages and culture remained the dominant medium in many parts of the Greater Iran.\n\nAs an example, the Persian language (referred to, in Persian, as \"Farsi\") was the main literary language and the language of correspondence in Central Asia and Caucasus prior to the Russian occupation, Central Asia being the birthplace of modern Persian language. Furthermore, according to the British government, Persian language was also used in Iraqi Kurdistan, prior to the British Occupation and Mandate in 1918-1932.\n\nWith Imperial Russia continuously advancing south in the course of two wars against Persia, and the treaties of Turkmenchay and Gulistan in the western frontiers, plus the unexpected death of Abbas Mirza in 1823, and the murdering of Persia's Grand Vizier (Mirza AbolQasem Qa'im Maqām), many Central Asian khanates began losing hope for any support from Persia against the Tsarist armies. The Russian armies occupied the Aral coast in 1849, Tashkent in 1864, Bukhara in 1867, Samarkand in 1868, and Khiva and Amudarya in 1873.\n\nIn the 8th century, Iran was conquered by the Abbassids who ruled from Baghdad, and the territory of Iran at that time was known to be composed of two portions: \"Persian Iraq\" (western portion) and \"Khorasan\" (eastern portion). The dividing region was mostly along with Gurgan and Damaghan cities. Especially the Ghaznavids, Seljuqs and Timurids divided their Empire to Iraqi and Khorasani regions. This point can be observed in many books such as \"Tārīkhi Baïhaqī\" of Abul Fazl Bayhqi, \"Faza'ilul al-anam min rasa'ili hujjat al-Islam\" (a collection of letters of Al-Ghazali) and other books. Transoxiana and Chorasmia were mostly included in the Khorasanian region.\n\nThe \"Ajam\" and \"Huwala\" are ethnic communities of Bahrain of Persian origin. The Persians of Bahrain are a significant and influential ethnic community whose ancestors arrived in Bahrain within the last 1,000 years as laborers, merchants and artisans. They have traditionally been merchants living in specific quarters of Manama and Muharraq. Bahrain's Persians who adhere to the Shia sect of Islam are Ajam and the Persians who adhere to the Sunni sect are called Huwala, who migrated from Larestan in Iran to the Persian Gulf in the seventeenth and eighteenth century.\n\nThe immigration of Persians to Bahrain began when the Greek Seleucid kingdom which was ruling Bahrain at the time fell and the Persian Empire successfully invaded Bahrain, but it is often believed that mass immigration started during the 1600s when Abbas I of Persia invaded Bahrain. After settling in Bahrain, some of the Persians were effectively Arabized. They usually settled in areas inhabited by the indigenous Baharna, probably because they share the same Shia Muslim faith, however, some Sunni Persians settled in areas mostly inhabited by Sunni Arab immigrants such as Hidd and Galali. In Muharraq, they have their own neighborhood called Fareej Karimi named after a rich Persian man called Ali Abdulla Karimi.\n\nFrom the 6th century BC to the 3rd century BC, Bahrain was a prominent part of the Persian Empire by the Achaemenids, an Iranian dynasty. Bahrain was referred to by the Greeks as \"Tylos\", the centre of pearl trading, when Nearchus discovered it while serving under Alexander the Great. From the 3rd century BC to the arrival of Islam in the 7th century AD, Bahrain was controlled by two other Iranian dynasties, the Parthians and the Sassanids.\n\nIn the 3rd century AD, the Sassanids succeeded the Parthians and controlled the area for four centuries until the arrival of Islam. Ardashir, the first ruler of the Iranian Sassanid dynasty marched to Oman and Bahrain and defeated Sanatruq (or Satiran), probably the Parthian governor of Bahrain. He appointed his son Shapur I as governor of Bahrain. Shapur constructed a new city there and named it Batan Ardashir after his father. At this time, Bahrain incorporated the southern Sassanid province covering the Persian Gulf's southern shore plus the archipelago of Bahrain. The southern province of the Sassanids was subdivided into three districts; Haggar (now al-Hafuf province, Saudi Arabia), Batan Ardashir (now al-Qatif province, Saudi Arabia), and Mishmahig (now Bahrain Island) (In Middle-Persian/Pahlavi it means \"ewe-fish\").\n\nBy about 130 BC, the Parthian dynasty brought the Persian Gulf under their control and extended their influence as far as Oman. Because they needed to control the Persian Gulf trade route, the Parthians established garrisons along the southern coast of the Persian Gulf.\nthrough warfare and economic distress, been reduced to only 60. \nThe influence of Iran was further undermined at the end of the 18th century when the ideological power struggle between the Akhbari-Usuli strands culminated in victory for the Usulis in Bahrain.\n\nAn Afghan uprising led by Hotakis of Kandahar at the beginning of the 18th century resulted in the near collapse of the Safavid state. In the resultant power vacuum, Oman invaded Bahrain in 1717, ending over one hundred years of Persian hegemony in Bahrain. The Omani invasion began a period of political instability and a quick succession of outside rulers took power with consequent destruction. According to a contemporary account by theologian, Sheikh Yusuf Al Bahrani, in an unsuccessful attempt by the Persians and their Bedouin allies to take back Bahrain from the Kharijite Omanis, much of the country was burnt to the ground. Bahrain was eventually sold back to the Persians by the Omanis, but the weakness of the Safavid empire saw Huwala tribes seize control.\n\nIn 1730, the new Shah of Persia, Nadir Shah, sought to re-assert Persian sovereignty in Bahrain. He ordered Latif Khan, the admiral of the Persian navy in the Persian Gulf, to prepare an invasion fleet in Bushehr. The Persians invaded in March or early April 1736 when the ruler of Bahrain, Shaikh Jubayr, was away on hajj. The invasion brought the island back under central rule and to challenge Oman in the Persian Gulf. He sought help from the British and Dutch, and he eventually recaptured Bahrain in 1736. During the Qajar era, Persian control over Bahrain waned and in 1753, Bahrain was occupied by the Sunni Persians of the Bushire-based Al Madhkur family, who ruled Bahrain in the name of Persia and paid allegiance to Karim Khan Zand.\n\nDuring most of the second half of the eighteenth century, Bahrain was ruled by Nasr Al-Madhkur, the ruler of Bushehr. The Bani Utibah tribe from Zubarah exceeded in taking over Bahrain after a war broke out in 1782. Persian attempts to reconquer the island in 1783 and in 1785 failed; the 1783 expedition was a joint Persian-Qawasim invasion force that never left Bushehr. The 1785 invasion fleet, composed of forces from Bushehr, Rig and Shiraz was called off after the death of the ruler of Shiraz, Ali Murad Khan. Due to internal difficulties, the Persians could not attempt another invasion. In 1799, Bahrain came under threat from the expansionist policies of Sayyid Sultan, the Sultan of Oman, when he invaded the island under the pretext that Bahrain did not pay taxes owed. The Bani Utbah solicited the aid of Bushire to expel the Omanis on the condition that Bahrain would become a tributary state of Persia. In 1800, Sayyid Sultan invaded Bahrain again in retaliation and deployed a garrison at Arad Fort, in Muharraq island and had appointed his twelve-year-old son Salim, as Governor of the island. \n\nMany names of villages in Bahrain are derived from the Persian language. These names were thought to have been as a result influences during the Safavid rule of Bahrain (1501–1722) and previous Persian rule. Village names such as Karbabad, Salmabad, Karzakan, Duraz, Barbar were originally derived from the Persian language, suggesting that Persians had a substantial effect on the island's history. The local Bahrani Arabic dialect has also borrowed many words from the Persian language. Bahrain's capital city, Manama is derived from two Persian words meaning 'I' and 'speech'.\n\nIn 1910, the Persian community funded and opened a private school, Al-Ittihad school, that taught Farsi amongst other subjects.\nAccording to the 1905 census, there were 1650 Bahraini citizens of Persian origin.\n\nHistorian Nasser Hussain says that many Iranians fled their native country in the early 20th century due to a law king Reza Shah issued which banned women from wearing the hijab, or because they feared for their lives after fighting the English, or to find jobs. They were coming to Bahrain from Bushehr and the Fars province between 1920 and 1940. In the 1920s, local Persian merchants were prominently involved in the consolidation of Bahrain's first powerful lobby with connections to the municipality in effort to contest the municipal legislation of British control.\n\nBahrain's local Persian community have heavily influenced the country's local food dishes. One of the most notable local delicacies of the people in Bahrain is mahyawa, consumed in Southern Iran as well, is a watery earth brick coloured sauce made from sardines and consumed with bread or other food. Bahrain's Persians are also famous in Bahrain for bread-making. Another local delicacy is \"pishoo\" made from rose water (golab) and agar agar. Other food items consumed are similar to Persian cuisine.\n\nThroughout history, Iran always had strong cultural ties with the region of nowadays Iraq. Mesopotamia is considered as the cradle of civilization and the place where the first empires in history were established. These empires, namely the Sumerian, Akkadian, Babylonian, and Assyrian, dominated the ancient middle east for millennia, which explains the great influence of the Mesopotamia on the Iranian culture and history, and it is also the reason why the later Iranian and Greek dynasties chose Mesopotamia to be the political centre of their rule. For a period of around 500 years, what is now Iraq formed the core of Iran, with the Iranian Parthian and Sasanian empire having their capital in what is modern-day Iraq for the same centuries long time span. (Ctesiphon)\n\nBecause the Achaemenid Empire or \"First Persian Empire\" was the successor state to the empires of Assyria and Babylonia based in Iraq, and because Elam is part of Iran, the ancient people of Iran were ruled by ancient Mesopotamians, which explains the close proximity between the people of south western Iran and the Iraqis even in modern days, in fact, the people of that part of Iran speak Mesopotamian Arabic and were put under the rule of modern Iran by the British. The ancient Persians adopted the Babylonian cuneiform script and modified it to write their language, along with adopting many other facets of ancient Iraqi culture, including the Aramaic language which became the official language of the Persian Empire.\n\nThe Cyrus Cylinder, written in Babylonian cuneiform in the name of the Achaemenid king Cyrus the Great, describes the Persian takeover of Babylon (the ancient name of Iraq). An excerpt reads:\n\nAccording to Iranologist Richard N. Frye:\n\nTestimony to the close relationship shared by Iraq and western Iran during the Abbasid era and later centuries, is the fact that the two regions came to share the same name. The western region of Iran (ancient Media) was called 'Irāq-e 'Ajamī (\"Persian Iraq\"), while central-southern Iraq (Babylonia) was called 'Irāq al-'Arabī (\"Arabic Iraq\") or Bābil (\"Babylon\"). And the name Iraq comes from the ancient Mesopotamian city Uruk, which suggests an even older relationship.\n\nFor centuries the two neighbouring regions were known as \"The Two Iraqs\" (\"al-'Iraqain\"). The 12th century Persian poet Khāqāni wrote a famous poem \"Tohfat-ul Iraqein\" (\"The Gift of the Two Iraqs\"). The city of Arāk in western Iran still bears the region's old name, and Iranians still traditionally call the region between Tehran, Isfahan and Īlām \"ʿErāq\".\n\nDuring medieval ages, Mesopotamian and Iranian peoples knew each other's languages because of trade, and because Arabic was the language of religion and science at that time. The Timurid historian Ḥāfeẓ-e Abru (d. 1430) wrote of Iraq:\nIraqis share religious and certain cultural ties Iranians. The majority of Iranians are Twelver Shia (an Islamic sect established in Iraq), although the majority of Iranians were Sunni Muslims and did not convert to Shia until the Safavids forced Shi'ism in Iran.\n\nIraqi culture has commonalities with the culture of Iran. The spring festival of Nowruz that is celebrated in Iran and some parts of Iraq roots back to the Akitu spring festival (Babylonian new year). The Mesopotamian cuisine has also similarities to the Persian cuisine and has common dishes and cooking techniques. The Iraqi dialect has absorbed many words from the Persian language as well.\n\nThere are still cities and provinces in Iraq where the Persian names of the city are still retained. e.g. ’Anbār and Baghdad. Other cities of Iraq with originally Persian names include \"Nokard\" (نوكرد) --> Haditha, \"Suristan\" (سورستان) --> Kufa, \"Shahrban\" (شهربان) --> Muqdadiyah, \"Arvandrud\" (اروندرود) --> Shatt al-Arab, and \"Asheb\" (آشب) --> Amadiya, \"Peroz-Shapur\" --> Anbar (town)\n\nIn the modern era, the Safavid dynasty of Iran briefly reasserted their hegemony over Iraq in the periods of 1501–1533 and 1622–1638, losing Iraq to the Ottoman Empire on both occasions (via the Treaty of Amasya in 1555 and the Treaty of Zuhab in 1639). Ottoman hegemony over Iraq was reconfirmed in the Treaty of Kerden in 1746.\n\nFollowing the fall of the Ba'athist regime in 2003 and the empowerment of Iraq's majority Shī'i community, relations with Iran have flourished in all fields. Iraq is today Iran’s largest trading partner in regard to non-oil goods.\n\nMany Iranians were born in Iraq or have ancestors from Iraq, such as the Chairman of Iran's Parliament Ali Larijani, the former Chief Justice of Iran Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Iran Ali Akbar Salehi, who were born in Najaf and Karbala respectively. In the same way, many Iraqis were born in Iran or have ancestors from Iran, such as Grand Ayatollah Ali al-Sistani, who was born in Mashhad.\n\nCulturally and historically Kurdistan has been a part of what is known as Greater Iran. Kurds speak a Northwestern Iranian language known as Kurdish. Many aspects of Kurdish culture are related to the other peoples of Greater Iran, examples include Newroz and Simurgh. Some historians and linguists, such as Vladimir Minorsky, have suggested that the Medes, an Iranian people who inhabited much of western Iran, including Azerbaijan and Kurdistan, might have been forefathers of modern Kurds.\n\nDagestan remains the bastion of Persian culture in the North Caucasus with fine examples of Iranian architecture like the Sassanid citadel in Derbent, strong influence of Persian cuisine, and common Persian names amongst the ethnic peoples of Dagestan. The ethnic Persian population of the North Caucasus, the Tats, remain, despite strong assimilation over the years, still visible in several North Caucasian cities. Even today, after decades of partition, some of these regions retain Iranian influences, as seen in their old beliefs, traditions and customs (e.g. Norouz).\n\nAccording to Tadeusz Swietochowski, the territories of Iran and the republic of Azerbaijan usually shared the same history from the time of ancient Media (ninth to seventh centuries b.c.) and the Persian Empire (sixth to fourth centuries b.c.).\n\nIntimately and inseparably intertwined histories for millennia, Iran irrevocably lost the territory that is nowadays Azerbaijan in the course of the 19th century. With the Treaty of Gulistan of 1813 following the Russo-Persian War (1804-1813) Iran had to cede eastern Georgia, its possessions in the North Caucasus and many of those in what is today the Azerbaijan Republic, which included Baku Khanate, Shirvan Khanate, Karabakh Khanate, Ganja Khanate, Shaki Khanate, Quba Khanate, and parts of the Talysh Khanate. Derbent (Darband) Khanate of Dagestan was also lost to Russia. These Khanates comprise most of what is today the Republic of Azerbaijan and Dagestan in Southern Russia. By the Treaty of Turkmenchay of 1828 following the Russo-Persian War (1826-1828), the result was even more disastrous, and resulted in Iran being forced to cede the Nakhichevan Khanate and the Mughan regions to Russia, as well as Erivan Khanate, and the remainder of the Talysh Khanate. All these territories together, lost in 1813 and 1828 combined, constitute all of the modern-day Republic of Azerbaijan, Armenia, and southern Dagestan. The area to the North of the river Aras, among which the territory of the contemporary republic of Azerbaijan were Iranian territory until they were occupied by Russia in the course of the 19th century.\n\nMany localities in this region bear Persian names or names derived from Iranian languages and Azerbaijan remains by far Iran's closest cultural, religious, ethnic and historical neighbor. Azerbaijanis are by far the second largest ethnicity in Iran, and comprise the largest community of ethnic Azerbaijanis in the world, vastly outnumbering the number in the Republic of Azerbaijan. Both nations are the only officially Shia majority in the world, with adherents of the religion comprising an absolute majority in both nations. The people of nowadays Iran and Azerbaijan were converted to Shiism during exactly the same time in history. Furthermore, the name of \"Azerbaijan\" is derived through the name of the Persian satrap which ruled the contemporary region of Iranian Azerbaijan and minor parts of the Republic of Azerbaijan in ancient times. In 1918, the Azerbaijani Musavat party adopted the name for the nation upon the independence of the former territories under the Russian Empire.\n\nEarly in antiquity, Narseh of Persia is known to have had fortifications built here. In later times, some of Persia's literary and intellectual figures from the Qajar period have hailed from this region. Under intermittent Iranian suzerainty since antiquity, it was also separated from Iran in the mid-19th century, by virtue of the Gulistan Treaty and Turkmenchay Treaty.\n\nکه تا جایگه یافتی نخچوان\nOh Nakhchivan, respect you've attained,\nبدین شاه شد بخت پیرت جوان\nWith this King in luck you'll remain.\n\"---Nizami\"\n\nKhwarazm is one of the regions of \"Iran-zameen\", and is the home of the ancient Iranians, Airyanem Vaejah, according to the ancient book of the Avesta. Modern scholars believe Khwarazm to be what ancient Avestic texts refer to as \"Ariyaneh Waeje\" or Iran vij. \"Iranovich\" These sources claim that Urgandj, which was the capital of ancient Khwarazm for many years, was actually \"Ourva\": the eighth land of Ahura Mazda mentioned in the Pahlavi text of Vendidad. Others such as University of Hawaii historian Elton L. Daniel believe Khwarazm to be the \"most likely locale\" corresponding to the original home of the Avestan people, while Dehkhoda calls Khwarazm \"the cradle of the Aryan tribe\" (مهد قوم آریا). Today Khwarazm is split between several central Asian republics.\n\nSuperimposed on and overlapping with Chorasmia was Khorasan which roughly covered nearly the same geographical areas in Central Asia (starting from Semnan eastward through northern Afghanistan roughly until the foothills of Pamir, ancient Mount Imeon). Current day provinces such as Sanjan in Turkmenia, Razavi Khorasan Province, North Khorasan Province, and Southern Khorasan Province in Iran are all remnants of the old Khorasan. Until the 13th century and the devastating Mongol invasion of the region, Khorasan was considered the cultural capital of Greater Iran.\n\nThe national anthem in Tajikistan, \"Surudi Milli\", attests to the Perso-Tajik identity, which has seen a large revival, after the breakup of the USSR. Their language is almost identical to that spoken in Afghanistan and Iran, and their cities have Persian names, e.g. Dushanbe, Isfara, Rasht Valley, Garm, Murghab, Vahdat, Zar-afshan river, Shurab, and Kulob (). It is also important to note that Rudaki, considered by many as the father of modern Persian poetry, was from the modern day region of Tajikistan.\n\nHome of the Parthian Empire (Nysa). Merv is also where the half-Persian caliph al-Mamun moved his capital to. The city of Eshgh Abad (some claim that the word is actually the transformed form of \"Ashk Abad\" literally meaning \"built by Ashk\", the head of Arsacid dynasty) is yet another Persian word meaning \"city of love\", and like Iran, Afghanistan, and Uzbekistan, it was once part of Airyanem Vaejah.\n\nUzbekistan has a local Tajik population. The famous Persian cities of Afrasiab, Bukhara, Samarkand, Shahrisabz, Andijan, Khiveh, Navā'i, Shirin, Termez, and Zar-afshan are located here. These cities are the birthplace of the Islamic era Persian literature. The Samanids, who claimed inheritance to the Sassanids, had their capital built here.\n\nای بخارا شاد باش و دیر زی\nOh Bukhara! Joy to you and live long!\nشاه زی تو میهمان آید همی\nYour King comes to you in ceremony.\n\"---Rudaki\"\n\nThe Tashkurgan Tajik Autonomous County regions of China harbored a Tajik population and culture. Chinese Tashkurgan Tajik Autonomous County was always counted as a part of the Iranian cultural & linguistic continent with Kashgar, Yarkand, Hotan, and Turpan bound to the Iranian history.\n\nModern state of Afghanistan was part of Sistan and Greater Khorasan regions, and hence was recognized with the name Khorasan (along with regions centered on Merv and Nishapur), which in Pahlavi means \"The Eastern Land\" (خاور زمین in Persian).\n\nNowadays region of Afghanistan is where Balkh is located, home of Rumi, Rabi'a Balkhi, Sanāī Ghaznawi, Jami, Khwaja Abdullah Ansari and where many other notables in Persian literature came from.\n\nز زابل به کابل رسید آن زمان\nFrom Zabul he arrived to Kabul\nگرازان و خندان و دل شادمان\nStrutting, happy, and mirthful\n\"---Ferdowsi in Shahnama\"\n\nThere is considerable influence of Iranian-speaking peoples in Pakistan. The region of Baluchistan is split between Pakistan and Iran and Baluchi, the majority languages of the Baluchistan province of Pakistan are also spoken in Southeastern Iran. In fact, the Chagai Hills and the western part of Makran district were part of Iran till the Durand Line was drawn in the late 1800s.\n\nPashto which is spoken in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and FATA of Pakistan and Afghanistan is an Iranian language.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41495235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41495235", "title": "Historic centre of Córdoba", "text": "Historic centre of Córdoba\n\nThe historic centre of Córdoba, Spain is one of the largest of its kind in Europe. In 1984, UNESCO registered the Mosque–Cathedral of Córdoba as a World Heritage Site. A decade later, it expanded the inscription to include much of the old town. The historic centre has a wealth of monuments preserving large traces of Roman, Arabic, and Christian times.\n\nFirst a Carthaginian township, Córdoba was captured by the Romans in 206 BC, soon becoming the capital of Hispania Citerior with fine buildings and imposing fortifications. In the 6th century, with the crumbling of the Roman Empire, the city fell to the Visigoths until the beginning of the 8th century when it was conquered by the Moors. In 716, Córdoba became a provincial capital and, in 766, capital of the Muslim emirate of al-Andalus. By the 10th century, as the Caliphate of Córdoba it had become one of the most advanced cities in the world, recognized for its culture, learning and religious tolerance. It addition to a huge library, the city enclosed over 300 mosques and a multitude of palaces and administrative buildings.\n\nIn 1236, King Ferdinand III took the city, built new defences and converted the Grand Mosque into a cathedral. The Christian city grew up around the cathedral with palaces, churches, and a fortress. Although the city lost its political significance under Christian rule, it continued to play an important role in commerce thanks to the nearby Sierra Morena copper mines.\n\nThe historic centre as defined by UNESCO comprises the buildings and narrow winding streets around the cathedral. It is bordered on the south by the River Guadalquivir so as to include the Roman Bridge and the Calahorra Tower, on the east by the Calle San Fernando, and on the north by the commercial centre. To the west, it includes the Alcázar and the San Basilio district.\n\nEvidence of the Roman period can be seen in the 16-span bridge over the Guadalquivir, the mosaics in the Alcázar, the columns of the Roman temple, and the remains of the Roman walls. In addition to the Caliphal Baths, the Moorish influence in the city's design is evident in the Alcázar gardens adjacent to the former Grand Mosque. Minarets from the period survive in the churches of Santiago, San Lorenzo, San Juan and the Santa Clara Hermitage. The Jewish presence during Muslim rule can be seen in the La Judería district in which the synagogue was used until 1492.\n\nThe Alcázar, originally a Moorish castle, was adapted to serve as a residence for the Christian kings in the 14th century while the Calahorra Tower, built by the Almohads, was comprehensively reworked by King Henry II in 1369. The little Chapel of San Bartolomé was completed in the Gothic-Mudéjar style in 1410. Originally a church, the former San Sebastián Hospital, now the Congress Centre, was completed in 1516 in a combination of Gothic, Mudéjar and Renaissance styles. Other churches from the period include San Nicolás and San Francisco.\n\nThere are also a number of important 16th-century buildings including the San Pelagio Seminary, the Puerta del Puente, and the Palacio del Marqués de la Fuensanta del Valle designed by Hernán Ruiz. Also of note is the 18th-century Hospital del Cardenal Salazar with its Baroque facade.\n\nOther historic monuments in the old town include the Episcopal Palace built on the remains of the former Visigoth palace and now the Diocesan Fine Arts Museum, and the Royal Stables built by King Philip II in 1570 as part of the Alcázar.\n"}
{"id": "3537964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3537964", "title": "Historicity of the Homeric epics", "text": "Historicity of the Homeric epics\n\nThe extent of the historical basis of the Homeric epics has been a topic of scholarly debate for centuries. \nWhile researchers of the 18th century had largely rejected the story of the Trojan War as fable, the discoveries made by Heinrich Schliemann at Hisarlik reopened the question in modern terms, and the subsequent excavation of Troy VIIa and the discovery of the toponym \"Wilusa\" in Hittite correspondence has made it plausible that the Trojan War cycle was at least remotely based on a historical conflict of the 12th century BC, even if the poems of Homer are removed from the event by more than four centuries of oral tradition.\n\nIn antiquity, educated Greeks accepted the truth of human events depicted in the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", even as philosophical scepticism was undermining faith in divine intervention in human affairs. In the time of Strabo, topographical disquisitions discussed the identity of sites mentioned by Homer. This continued when Greco-Roman culture was Christianised: Eusebius of Caesarea offered universal history reduced to a timeline, in which Troy received the same historical weight as Abraham, with whom Eusebius' \"Chronologia\" began, ranking the Argives and Mycenaeans among the kingdoms ranged in vertical columns, offering biblical history on the left (verso), and secular history of the kingdoms on the right (recto). Jerome's \"Chronicon\" followed Eusebius, and all the medieval chroniclers began with summaries of the universal history of Jerome.\n\nWith such authorities accepting it, post-Roman Europeans continued to accept Troy and the events of the Trojan War as historical. Geoffrey of Monmouth's pseudo-genealogy traced a Trojan origin for royal Briton descents in \"Historia Regum Britanniae\". Merovingian descent from a Trojan ancestor was embodied in a literary myth first established in Fredegar's chronicle (2.4, 3.2.9), to the effect that the Franks were of Trojan stock and adopted their name from King Francio, who had built a new Troy on the banks of the river Rhine (modern Treves). However, even before the so-called Age of Enlightenment of the 18th century these supposed facts of the medieval concept of history were doubted by Blaise Pascal: \"Homer wrote a romance, for nobody supposes that Troy and Agamemnon existed any more than the apples of the Hesperides. He had no intention to write history, but only to amuse us.\" During the 19th century the stories of Troy were devalued as fables by George Grote.\n\nThe discoveries made by Heinrich Schliemann at Hisarlik revived the question during modern times, and recent discoveries have resulted in more discussion. According to Jeremy B. Rutter, archaeological finds thus far, can neither prove nor disprove whether Hisarlik VIIa was sacked by Mycenean Greeks sometime between 1325 and 1200 BC.\n\nNo text or artifact found on the site itself clearly identifies the Bronze Age site by name. This is due probably to the leveling of the former hillfort during the construction of Hellenistic Ilium (Troy IX), destroying the parts that most likely contained the city archives. A single seal of a Luwian scribe has been found in one of the houses, proving the presence of written correspondence in the city, but not a single text. Research by Anatolian specialists indicates that what is called \"Troy\" was in the Late Bronze Age known to the Hittites as the kingdom of Wilusa, and that it appears that there were several armed conflicts in the area at the end of the Late Bronze Age, although this does not identify the combatants.\n\nThe bilingual toponymy of Troy/Ilion is well established in the Homeric tradition. The Mycenaean Greeks of the 13th century BC had colonized the Greek mainland and Crete, and were beginning to make forays into Anatolia. Philologist Joachim Latacz identifies the \"Achaioi\" of the \"Illiad\" with the inhabitants of Ahhiyawa. He posits that in all probability the \"Iliad\" preserved through oral hexameters the memory of one or more acts of aggression perpetrated by the Ahhiyawans against Wilusa in the thirteenth century B.C.\n\nThe more that is known about Bronze Age history, the clearer it becomes that it is not a yes-or-no question but one of educated assessment of \"how much\" historical knowledge is present in Homer, and whether it represents a retrospective memory of Dark Age Greece, as Finley concludes, or of Mycenaean Greece, which is the dominant view of \"A Companion to Homer\", A.J.B. Wace and F.H. Stebbings, eds. (New York/London: Macmillan 1962). The particular narrative of the \"Iliad\" is not an account of the war, but a tale of the psychology, the wrath, vengeance and death of individual heroes, which assumes common knowledge of the Trojan War as a back-story. No scholars now assume that the individual events of the tale (many of which involve divine intervention) are historical fact; however, no scholars claim that the story is entirely devoid of memories of Mycenaean times.\n\nHowever, in addressing a separate controversy, Oxford Professor of Greek, Martin L. West indicated that such an approach \"misconceives\" the problem, and that Troy probably fell to a much smaller group of attackers in a much shorter time.\n\nSome archaeologists and historians, most notably, until his death in 1986, Finley, maintain that none of the events in Homer's works are historical. Others accept that there may be a foundation of historical events in the Homeric narrative, but say that in the absence of independent evidence it is not possible to separate fact from myth.\n\nMoses I. Finley, in \"The World of Odysseus\" presents a picture of the society represented by the \"Iliad\" and the \"Odyssey\", avoids the question as \"beside the point that the narrative is a collection of fictions from beginning to end\" Finley was in a minority when his \"World of Odysseus\" first appeared in 1954. With the understanding that war was the normal state of affairs, Finley observed that a ten-year war was out of the question, indicating Nestor's recall of a cattle-raid in Elis as a norm, and identifying the scene in which Helen points out to Priam the Achaean leaders in the battlefield, as \"an illustration of the way in which one traditional piece of the story was retained after the war had ballooned into ten years and the piece had become rationally incongruous.\"\n\nFinley, for whom the Trojan War is \"a timeless event floating in a timeless world\", analyzes the question of historicity, aside from invented narrative details, into five essential elements: 1. Troy was destroyed by a war; 2. the destroyers were a coalition from mainland Greece; 3. the leader of the coalition was a king named Agamemnon; 4. Agamemnon's overlordship was recognized by the other chieftains; 5. Troy, too, headed a coalition of allies. Finley does not find any evidence for any of these elements.\n\nAside from narrative detail, Finley pointed out that, aside from some correlation of Homeric placenames and Mycenaean sites, there is also the fact that the heroes lived at home in palaces (\"oikoi\") unknown in Homer's day; far from a nostalgic recall of the Mycenaean age, Finley asserts that \"the catalog of his errors is very long\".\n\n\"His arms bear a resemblance to the armour of his time, quite unlike the Mycenaean, although he persistently casts them in antiquated bronze, not iron. His gods had temples, and the Mycenaeans built none, whereas the latter constructed great vaulted tombs to bury their chieftains in and the poet cremates his. A neat little touch is provided by the battle chariots. Homer had heard of them, but he did not really visualize what one did with chariots in a war. So his heroes normally drove from their tents a mile or less away, carefully dismounted, and then proceeded to battle on foot.\"\n\nWhat the poet believed he was singing about was the heroic past of his own Greek world, Finley concludes.\n\nDuring recent years scholars have suggested that the Homeric stories represented a synthesis of many old Greek stories of various Bronze Age sieges and expeditions, fused together in the Greek memory during the \"dark ages\" which followed the end of the Mycenean civilization. In this view, no historical city of Troy existed anywhere: the name perhaps derives from a people called the Troies, who probably lived in central Greece. The identification of the hill at Hisarlık as Troy is, in this view, a late development, following the Greek colonisation of Asia Minor during the 8th century BC.\n\nIt is also worth comparing the details of the Iliadic story to those of older Mesopotamian literature—most notably, the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\". Names, set scenes, and even major parts of the story, are strikingly similar. Some academics believe that writing first came to Greece from the east, via traders, and these older poems were used to demonstrate the uses of writing, thus heavily influencing early Greek literature.\n\nAnother opinion is that Homer was heir to an unbroken tradition of oral epic poetry reaching back some 500 years into Mycenaean times. The case is set out in \"The Singer of Tales\" by Albert B. Lord, citing earlier work by folklorist and mythographer Milman Parry. In this view, the poem's core could represent a historical campaign that took place at the eve of the decline of the Mycenaean civilization. Much legendary material would have been added during this time, but in this view it is meaningful to ask for archaeological and textual evidence corresponding to events referred to in the \"Iliad\". Such a historical background gives a credible explanation for the geographical knowledge of Troy (which could, however, also have been obtained in Homer's time by visiting the traditional site of the city, which was in fact New Ilium, built at the base of the hill at Hisarlık) and otherwise unmotivated elements in the poem (in particular the detailed \"Catalogue of Ships\"). Linguistically, a few verses of the \"Iliad\" suggest great antiquity, because they only fit the meter if projected back into Mycenaean Greek, in part due to the classical loss of the digamma; this trace of archaic language suggests a poetic tradition spanning the Greek Dark Ages. On the other hand, there are well-known interpolations in the text we have. Even though Homer was Ionian, the \"Iliad\" reflects the geography known to the Mycenaean Greeks, showing detailed knowledge of the mainland but not extending to the Ionian Islands or Anatolia, which suggests that the \"Iliad\" reproduces an account of events handed down by tradition, to which the author did not add his own geographical knowledge.\n\nAs mentioned above, though, it is most likely that the Homeric tradition contains elements of historical fact and elements of fiction interwoven. Homer describes a location, presumably in the Bronze Age, with a city. This city was near Mount Ida in northwest Turkey. Such a city did exist, at the mound of Hisarlık. Homer describes the location as very windy, which Hisarlık almost always is, and several other geographical features also match; so it appears, therefore, that Homer describes an actual place, although this fact does not in itself prove that his story is true.\n\nAlso, the \"Catalogue of Ships\" mentions a great variety of cities, some of which, including Athens, were inhabited both in the Bronze Age and in Homer's time, and some of which, such as Pylos, were not rebuilt after the Bronze Age. This suggests that the names of no-longer-existing towns were remembered from an older time, because it is unlikely that Homer would have managed to name successfully a diverse list of important Bronze Age cities that were, in his time, only a few blocks of rubble on the surface, often without even names. Furthermore, the cities enumerated in the \"Catalogue\" are given in geographical clusters, this revealing a sound knowledge of Aegean topography. Some evidence is mixed, though: locating the Bronze Age palace of Sparta, the traditional home of Menelaus, under the modern city has been challenging.\n\nLikewise, in the Mycenaean Greek Linear B tablets, some Homeric names appear, including Achilles (Linear B: , \"a-ki-re-u\"), a name which was also common in the classical period, noted on tablets from both Knossos and Pylos. The Achilles of the Linear B tablet is a shepherd, not a king or warrior, but the very fact that the name is an authentic Bronze Age name is significant. These names in the Homeric poems presumably remember, if not necessarily specific people, at least an older time when people's names were not the same as they were when the Homeric epics were written down. Some story elements from the tablets appear in the \"Iliad\".\n\nThe first person to point to the Hittite texts as a possible primary source was the Swiss scholar Emil Forrer in the 1920s and 1930s. In discussing an ethnic group called the \"Ahhiyawa\" in these texts, Forrer drew attention to the place names \"Wilusa\" and \"Taruisa\", which he argued were the Hittite way of writing \"(W)ilios\" (Ilios) and \"Troia\" (Troy). He also noted the mention of a Wilusan king Alaksandu, who had concluded a treaty with the Hittite king Muwatalli; the name of this king closely resembled Alexandros/Alexander, the alternative name of Paris, the son of king Priam. Other identifications Forrer offered included Priam with Piyama-Radu, and Eteocles, king of Orchomenos, with one \"Tawagalawa\". However, despite his arguments, many scholars dismissed Forrer's identification of Wilusa-(W)ilios/Troia-Taruisa as either improbable or at least unprovable, since until recently the known Hittite texts provided no clear indication where the kingdom of Wilusa was located beyond somewhere in Western Anatolia.\n\nGeneral scholarly opinion about this identification changed with the discovery of a text join to the Manapa-Tarhunda letter, which located Wilusa beyond the Seha River near the Lazpa land. Modern scholars identify the Seha with the Classical Caicus River, which is the modern Bakırçay, and the Lazpa land is the more familiar isle of Lesbos. As Trevor Bryce observes, \"This must considerably strengthen the possibility that the two were directly related, if not identical.\"\n\nDespite this evidence, the surviving Hittite texts do not provide an independent account of the Trojan War. The Manapa-Tarhunda letter is about a member of the Hittite ruling family, Piyama-Radu, who gained control of the kingdom of Wilusa, and whose only serious opposition came from the author of this letter, Manapa-Tarhunda. King Muwatalli of the Hittites was the opponent of this king of Troy, and the result of Muwatalli's campaign is not recorded in the surviving texts. The Ahhiyawa, generally identified with the Achaean Greeks, are mentioned in the Tawagalawa letter as the neighbors of the kingdom of Wilusa, and who provided a refuge for the troublesome renegade Piyama-Radu. The Tawagalawa letter mentions that the Hittites and the Ahhiyawa fought a war over Wilusa.\n\nIn November 2001, geologists John C. Kraft from the University of Delaware and John V. Luce from Trinity College, Dublin presented the results of investigations into the geology of the region that had started in 1977. The geologists compared the present geology with the landscapes and coastal features described in the \"Iliad\" and other classical sources, notably Strabo's \"Geographia\". Their conclusion was that there is regularly a consistency between the location of Troy as Hisarlik (and other locations such as the Greek camp), the geological evidence, and descriptions of the topography and accounts of the battle in the \"Iliad\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4519522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519522", "title": "Hyperlink cinema", "text": "Hyperlink cinema\n\nHyperlink cinema is a term coined by author Alissa Quart, who used the term in her review of the film \"Happy Endings\" (2005) for the film journal \"Film Comment\" in 2005. Film critic Roger Ebert popularized the term when reviewing the film \"Syriana\" in 2005. These films are not hypermedia and do not have actual hyperlinks, but are multilinear in a more metaphorical sense.\n\nIn describing \"Happy Endings\", Quart considers captions acting as footnotes and split screen as elements of hyperlink cinema and notes the influence of the World Wide Web and multitasking. Playing with time and characters' personal history, plot twists, interwoven storylines between multiple characters, jumping between the beginning and end (flashback and flashforward) are also elements. Ebert further described hyperlink cinema as films where the characters or action reside in separate stories, but a connection or influence between those disparate stories is slowly revealed to the audience; illustrated in Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu's films \"Amores perros\" (2000), \"21 Grams\" (2003), and \"Babel\" (2006).\n\nQuart suggests that director Robert Altman created the structure for the genre and demonstrated its usefulness for combining interlocking stories in his films \"Nashville\" (1975) and \"Short Cuts\" (1993). However, Jean Renoir's 1939 \"The Rules of the Game \" first used a narrative structure based on multiple characters and predates Altman's \"Nashville\" by 36 years.\n\nQuart also mentions the television series \"24\" and discusses Alan Rudolph's film \"Welcome to L.A.\" (1976) as an early prototype. \"Crash\" (2004) is an example of the genre, as are Steven Soderbergh's \"Traffic\" (2000), \"City of God\" (2002), \"Syriana\" (2005) \"Nine Lives\" (2005) and \"Odu Raja Odu\" (2018).\n\nThe hyperlink cinema narrative and story structure can be compared to social science's spatial analysis. As described by Edward Soja and Costis Hadjimichalis spatial analysis examines the \"'horizontal experience' of human life, the spatial dimension of individual behavior and social relations, as opposed to the 'vertical experience' of history, tradition, and biography.\" English critic John Berger notes for the novel that \"it is scarcely any longer possible to tell a straight story sequentially unfolding in time\" for \"we are too aware of what is continually traversing the story line laterally.\"\n\nAn academic analysis of hyperlink cinema appeared in the journal \"Critical Studies in Media Communication,\" and referred to the films as Global Network Films. Narine's study examines the films \"Traffic\" (2000), \"Amores perros\" (2000), \"21 Grams\" (2003), \"Beyond Borders\" (2003), \"Crash\" (2004; released 2005), \"Syriana\" (2005), \"Babel\" (2006) and others, citing network theorist Manuel Castells and philosophers Michel Foucault and Slavoj Žižek. The study suggests that the films are network narratives that map the network society and the new connections citizens experience in the age of globalization.\n\nAn extension to hyperlink cinema has been proposed by Robert K. Logan and Emma Findlay-White to suggest that hyperlink television has many of the properties of hyperlink cinema in that it also plays with time and characters' personal history, plot twists, contains interwoven storylines between multiple characters, jumps between the beginning and end (flashback and flashforward), and makes use of split screens and footnotes. But in addition it has some marked differences, to wit: weekly dramatic episodes often with multiple seasons such as \"Downton Abbey\", \"Boardwalk Empire\", \"The Sopranos\" and \"Game of Thrones\" and multiple episodes as in nightly newscasts such as CNN's \"The Situation Room with Wolf Blitzer\". The multiple characters of newscasts include two categories: the newsmakers, i.e. the subjects of the news and the anchors, reporters and commentators of the news shows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28700369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28700369", "title": "Ibn Ghazi al-Miknasi", "text": "Ibn Ghazi al-Miknasi\n\nAbu Abdallah Muhammad b. Ahmad b. Muhammad Ibn Ghazi al-'Utmani al-Miknasi (1437–1513) was a Moroccan scholar in the field of history, Islamic law, Arabic philology and mathematics. He was born in Meknes from banu uthman, a clan in the Berber kutama tribe, but spent his life in Fez. Ibn Ghazi wrote a three-volume history of Meknes and a commentary to the treatise of Ibn al-Banna, \"Munyat al-hussab\". For an explanation of his work, Ibn Ghazi wrote another treatise (about 300 pages long) titled \"Bughyat al-tulab fi sharh munyat al-hussab\" (\"The desire of students for an explanation of the calculator's craving\"). He included sections on arithmetic and algebraic methods.\nHe is also the author of \"Kulliyat\", a short work on legal questions and judgements in the Maliki madhab.\n\n"}
{"id": "57356955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57356955", "title": "Jim Bolton (historian)", "text": "Jim Bolton (historian)\n\nJames L. Bolton, FRHistS, published as J. L. Bolton but otherwise commonly known as Jim Bolton, is an English medieval economic historian. Between 1965 and 1994, he taught at Queen Mary College (now Queen Mary University of London), where he remains a Professorial Research Fellow.\n\nBolton arrived at Queen Mary in 1965 and remained on the staff until taking early retirement in 1994. As of 2018, he remains a Professorial Research Fellow there. He holds a BLitt degree from the University of Oxford, awarded in 1971 for his \"Alien merchants in England in the reign of Henry VI, 1422–61\", supervised by G. A. Holmes.\n\nBolton researches medieval economic history, with a focus on merchants and money in England (especially relating to London and its international links) and foreigners living in England during the late medieval period. According to Christopher Dyer, a professor at the University of Leicester, Bolton is a \"much respected and well liked figure in London academic circles\".\n\nBolton is a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society, and was the dedicatee of a festschrift edited by Matthew Davies and Martin Allen: \"Medieval Merchants and Money: Essays in Honour of James L. Bolton\" (Institute of Historical Research, 2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "12348268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12348268", "title": "Kesar Ordin", "text": "Kesar Ordin\n\nKesar Filippovich Ordin (1835—1892) was a 19th-century Russian mathematician and historian.\n\nHe was a graduate in mathematics of St. Petersburg University and author of a number of articles on Finland, opposing Finnish separatism.\n\nOrdin is perhaps most known of his work in which he tried to disprove the claims published by Finnish (also part of Russia at that time) Leo Mechelin about the 1809 Diet of Porvoo. Whereas Mechelin thought that Finland and Russia had made a treaty which resulted the two countries to form a so-called \"permanent union\", Ordin's version was that Finland had simply been merged to the motherland.\n\n"}
{"id": "25817335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25817335", "title": "Lordship of Biscay", "text": "Lordship of Biscay\n\nThe Lordship of Biscay (, Basque: \"Bizkaiko jaurerria\") was a region under feudal rule in the region of Biscay in the Iberian Peninsula between 1040 and 1876, ruled by a political figure known as the Lord of Biscay. One of the Basque \"señoríos\", it was a territory with its own political organization, with its own naval ensign, consulate in Bruges and customs offices in Balmaseda and Urduña, from the 11th Century until 1876, when the Juntas Generales were abolished. Since 1379, when John I of Castile became the Lord of Biscay, the lordship got integrated into the Crown of Castile, and eventually the Kingdom of Spain.\n\nThe first explicit reference to the foundation of the Biscayan lordship is in the \"Livro de Linhagens\", written between 1323 and 1344 by Pedro Afonso, Count of Barcelos. It is an entirely legendary account. The book narrates the arrival in Biscay of a man named Froom, a brother of the King of England, who had expelled him from his kingdom. Froom along with his son, Fortun Froes, defeat the Asturians in Busturia. Froom is killed in battle; his son was named the first Lord of Biscay. The Count of Barcelos then lists six additional mythical lords before he comes to Lope, the historical late-11th century lord, Lope Íñiguez. A notable story among these accounts, which bears some resemblance to the Melusine legend, is that of the Lady of Biscay (\"La Dama de Viscaya\"), a beautiful stranger found in the countryside by Lord Diego López. She joins him only when he agrees to certain conditions, but he later violates these and she flees into the country with their daughter. Diego López is subsequently captured by Moors, and their son Enheguez Guerra seeks out his mother for help. She gives him a horse, Pardalo, with whom he frees his father and is subsequently successful in all his battles. The later lords are said to have made sacrifices at Busturia in thanks for these events, their failure to do so resulting in attacks on the lords and townsmen by a mysterious knight.\n\nA better known but equally mythical story appears in the \"Bienandanzas e Fortunas\" of Lope García de Salazar (1454). In this story, a man named Çuria is born from the union of the god Sugaar and a Scottish (or in other versions, Irish, Danish or Frankish) princess in the village of Mundaka. Çuria was the elected chief of the Biscayans before the victorious battle of Arrigorriaga against the invading forces of the Kingdom of Asturias. Tradition holds that before the battle he saw two wolves carrying lambs in their mouths, presaging the victory; this scene is reflected in the arms of the lords of Biscay of the House of Haro. García de Salazar proceeds to give Çuria two sons by different mothers, Munso López (perhaps representing the historical Munio Velaz of the early 10th century) and Ínigo Esquira (an apparent temporally-displaced doppelgänger of the later lord of that name), who are followed by further apocryphal lords, Lope Díaz and Sancho López, before García de Salazar names a second Ínigo Esquira, this time representing the first authentic Lord of Biscay, the 11th-century Íñigo López \"Ezkerra\". This tale of Çuria would further develop into the legend of Jaun Zuria (\"the White Lord\") of Biscay, treated as a historical figure perhaps identical to Froom by 19th century historians.\n\nThe 16th-century historian Gonzalo Argote de Molina tells of other legendary lords of Biscay, and in this he is followed by several 17th and 18th century historians. They name a Hudon (or Eudon), the son of a Duke of Cantabria, who became lord of Biscay and who had a son named Zeno who succeeded him in the title. Hudon and Zeno are variously placed at different dates ranging from the mid-8th century to the late 9th century, and while the precise details differ in the different accounts, they are described as being related by marriage to the King of Pamplona and to Jaun Zuria. As with Froom and Çuria, there is no historical basis for these men.\n\nThe first time Biscay is mentioned with that name (in Spanish, \"Vizcaya\") is in the \"Chronicle of Alfonso III\" in the late 9th century, which tells of the regions repopulated under orders of Alfonso I, and how some territories \"owned by their own\", among them Biscay, were not affected by these repopulations. Biscay is mentioned again in the 10th-century \"Códice de Roda\", which narrates the wedding between Velazquita, daughter of Sancho I of Pamplona, to Munio Velaz, Count of Álava, in Biscay. It is considered then, that Biscay was by this period controlled by the Kingdom of Navarre.\n\nIn 1076, after the assassination of Sancho IV of Navarre, Alfonso VI of León and Castile and Sancho Ramírez of Aragón fought a war over control of the Kingdom of Navarre. Count Íñigo López, lord of Biscay surrendering the fortress of Bilibio to the Leonese, which aided in their conquest of La Rioja. In exchange, the Leonese monarchs promised to support Íñigo's personal interests in Durangaldea, Gipuzkoa and Álava. Íñigo died in 1077, and his son, Lope Íñiguez became Lord of Biscay, now as vassal of the Kingdom of Castile. The lordship would be later inherited by his son, Diego López I de Haro, who served as Lord of Biscay until 1134 when he was defeated and probably killed by Alfonso the Battler, King of Aragón and Navarre. The Lordship was then reintegrated into Navarre and Ladrón Íñiguez, one of the most powerful men of the Navarrese court, was named Lord of Biscay. After his death, in 1155, his son Vela Ladrón, who at the time was also Lord of Álava and Guipúzcoa, became Lord of Biscay and ruled through the reigns of Alfonso the Battler, García Ramírez and Sancho VI. During that time, Lope Díaz I de Haro claimed the title of Lord of Biscay, though he never set foot on the land during his lifetime. In 1173 Alfonso VIII of Castile attacked the Kingdom of Navarre and, a year later with the death of Vela Ladrón, occupied Biscay and restored the House of Haro: Diego López II de Haro was named Lord of Biscay.\n\nIn 1176 the kingdoms of Navarre and Castile signed a declaration of peace, agreeing to arbitration by Henry II of England. New borders were delimited and ratified in 1179. Biscay was divided, with the left bank of the River Nervión becoming part of Castile, while the rest of Biscay, Durangaldea and Álava (east from the Bayas River) were retained by Navarre. Diego López II, Lord of Biscay, swore fealty to the Navarrese monarchy and he ruled Biscay until 1183. The Lords of Biscay were vassals of the Kingdom of Navarre until 1206, when the Haro family were given the title of alférez at the Castilian court, and thereafter Biscay was in the area of influence of the Castilian kingdom, though it would not be wholly integrated into it until much later.\n\nThe Lordship of Biscay was in the hands of the Haro family and their descendants through 1370, when it passed to prince Juan of Castile, a distant kinsman with a maternal descent from the earlier Lords. He would subsequently succeed to his father's Kingdom of Castile, and from that time the Lordship remained bound to the Castilian kingdom, and from the reign of Charles I, to the Spanish crown. However, the Lordship maintained a high degree of autonomy, through the Biscayan law, or fueros.\n\nIn 1874, after the abolishment of the First Spanish Republic and the beginning of the Restoration, Alfonso XII abolished the Biscayan law and Juntas Generales; putting the Lordship to an end. Since then, Biscay has been fully integrated into the Spanish crown as the province of Biscay.\n\n\"Tierra Llana\" (literally, flatlands) refers to the territory that was not protected by stone walls, that is, mostly rural areas and farms. This territory was organized into 72 \"elizates\", grouped in six \"merindades\". Each elizate had a representation in the Juntas Generales.\n\n\nAll these regions were governed by the Biscayan law, or fuero. There were five \"de facto\" elizates, who did not belong to any merindad nor have any representation in the Juntas. Those were Alonsotegi, Arakaldo, Basauri, Zaratamo and Zollo.\n\nThere were 21 walled cities and towns, all founded during the Middle Ages. They were the towns of Balmaseda, Bermeo, Bilbao, Durango, Ermua, Gernika, Lanestosa, Lekeitio, Markina, Ondarroa, Otxandio, Portugalete, Plentzia, Mungia, Areatza, Errigoiti, Larrabetzu, Gerrikaitz, Miraballes, Elorrio and Urduña. There towns had their own municipal charter or \"carta puebla\", with their own set of laws different from those of the \"fueros\".\n\nThe region known as Enkarterri (\"Encartaciones\" in Spanish) is located at the west of the River Nervión and was incorporated into the Lordship in the 13th Century by the House of Haro. It was traditionally formed by 10 republics, that were united in councils, each with its own representation and government. Enkarterri had its own \"junta\" and \"fueros\", but eventually adopted the ones from Vizcaya. Their representants held councils in Avellaneda. A single common representant of all of them assisted the Biscayan Juntas Generales. In the 17th Century, five of the councils got their own representant in the Juntas. In 1804, the Junta of Avellaneda was dissolved and its councils incorporated into the \"Tierra Llana\". The Enkarterri had the following councils: Karrantza, Trutzioz, Artzentales, Sopuerta, Galdames, Zalla, Güeñes, Gordexola, The Three Councils of the Somorrostro Valley (Santurtzi, Sestao and Trapagaran) and The Four Councils of the Somorrostro Valley (Muskiz, Zierbena, Abanto de Suso and Abanto de Yuso).\n\nThe region known as the County of Durango (\"Merindad de Durango\" in Spanish) and currently known as Durangaldea is a valley located along the upper river Ibaizabal and had the traditional name of \"Merindad of Durango\". Durango and its valley were a semi-autonomous region, controlled by the Kingdom of Pamplona (later, Navarre) and had its own Foral law, and celebrated its own council mettings in Gerediaga. In 1200 it was conquered by the Kingdom of Castile, and in 1212 Alfonso VIII of Castile gives the land to Diego López II de Haro, Lord of Biscay, as a reward for his services in the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa, being then incorporated into Biscay. The Merindad of Durango comprised the following elizates: Abadiño, Berriz, Mallabia, Mañaria, Iurreta, Garai, Zaldibar, Arratzola, Axpe, Atxondo, Izurtza and Elorrio.\n\nThe Biscayan \"Juntas Generales\" were the maximum governing body of the Lordship; in the Juntas were represented all the Biscayan territories. There were in total 72 representants; each elizate had one, the towns and cities had one each.\n\nThe \"Regimiento General\" (General Regiment) was established in 1500 and had the function of governing the territory when the Juntas were not meeting. It was formed by 12 \"regidores\" that were named by the Juntas and one \"corregidor\". The regiment meet three times each year, and eventually got the name of \"Universal government of the Lordship\".\n\nThe \"Regimiento Particular\" (Particular Regiment) was established in 1570 and had the function of governing in the General Regiment's absence. It was formed by all the \"regidores\" that lived in Bilbao.\n\nIt served as the fundamental political institution of the Lordship during the 18th Century. In 1645 the Particular Regiment changed its name to \"Diputación General\" and were granted autonomy from the General Regiment. It was formed by seven members; six \"general members\" and one president, who was the \"corregidor\". Its function was to govern the \"Juntas Generales\", the Diputación had competences in military and financial issues, as well as the maintenance of the roads and charities.\n\nThe \"Lord\" of Biscay is the title that was granted to those who controlled the Biscayan territory.\n\nHouse of Haro\n\nHouse of Vela\n\nHouse of Haro (restored)\n\nHouse of Burgundy\n\nHouse of Lara\n\nHouse of Burgundy/Trastamara\n\nWith the succession of John I as King of Castile in 1379, the Lordship of Biscay was united with the Crown of Castile. Subsequent Castilian monarchs as well as their successors who ruled all Spain have continued to claim the title of Lord of Biscay, down to the present king and current holder of the title, Felipe VI of Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "18710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18710", "title": "Luke the Evangelist", "text": "Luke the Evangelist\n\nLuke the Evangelist (Latin: \"Lūcās\", , \"Loukâs\", , \"Lūqās\", , \"Lūqā&apos;\") is one of the Four Evangelists—the four traditionally ascribed authors of the canonical Gospels. The Early Church Fathers ascribed to him authorship of both the Gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles, which would mean Luke contributed over a quarter of the text of the New Testament, more than any other author. Prominent figures in early Christianity such as Jerome and Eusebius later reaffirmed his authorship, although the fragile evidence of the identity of the author of the works has led to discussion in scholarly circles, both secular and religious.\n\nThe New Testament mentions Luke briefly a few times, and the Pauline Epistle to the Colossians refers to him as a physician (from Greek for 'one who heals'); thus he is thought to have been both a physician and a disciple of Paul. Since the faith's early years, Christians have regarded him as a saint. He is believed to have been a martyr, reportedly having been hanged from an olive tree, though some believe otherwise.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church and other major denominations venerate him as Saint Luke the Evangelist and as a patron saint of artists, physicians, bachelors, surgeons, students and butchers; his feast day takes place on 18 October.\n\nMany scholars believe that Luke was a Greek physician who lived in the Greek city of Antioch, Turkey in Ancient Syria, although some other scholars and theologians think Luke was a Hellenic Jew. Bart Koet, a researcher and professor of theology, has stated that it was widely accepted that the theology of Luke–Acts points to a gentile Christian writing for a gentile audience, although he concludes that it is more plausible that Luke–Acts is directed to a community made up of both Jewish and gentile Christians because there is stress on the scriptural roots of the gentile mission (see the use of Isaiah 49:6 in Luke–Acts). Gregory Sterling, Dean of the Yale Divinity School, claims that he was either a Hellenistic Jew or a god-fearer.\n\nHis earliest notice is in Paul's Epistle to Philemon—. He is also mentioned in and , two works commonly ascribed to Paul. The next earliest account of Luke is in the \"Anti-Marcionite Prologue to the Gospel of Luke\", a document once thought to date to the 2nd century, but which has more recently been dated to the later 4th century. Helmut Koester, however, claims that the following part, the only part preserved in the original Greek, may have been composed in the late 2nd century:\n\nEpiphanius states that Luke was one of the Seventy Apostles (\"Panarion\" 51.11), and John Chrysostom indicates at one point that the \"brother\" Paul mentions in the Second Epistle to the Corinthians 8:18 is either Luke or Barnabas.(\"Homily 18 on Second Corinthians\" on 2 Corinthians 8:18)\n\nIf one accepts that Luke was indeed the author of the Gospel bearing his name and also the \"Acts of the Apostles\", certain details of his personal life can be reasonably assumed. While he does exclude himself from those who were eyewitnesses to Jesus' ministry, he repeatedly uses the word \"we\" in describing the Pauline missions in \"Acts of the Apostles\", indicating that he was personally there at those times.\n\nThere is similar evidence that Luke resided in Troas, the province which included the ruins of ancient Troy, in that he writes in \"Acts\" in the third person about Paul and his travels until they get to Troas, where he switches to the first person plural. The \"we\" section of \"Acts\" continues until the group leaves Philippi, when his writing goes back to the third person. This change happens again when the group returns to Philippi. There are three \"we sections\" in \"Acts\", all following this rule. Luke never stated, however, that he lived in Troas, and this is the only evidence that he did.\n\nThe composition of the writings, as well as the range of vocabulary used, indicate that the author was an educated man. A quote in the Epistle to the Colossians differentiates between Luke and other colleagues \"of the circumcision.\"\n\nThis comment has traditionally caused commentators to conclude that Luke was a gentile. If this were true, it would make Luke the only writer of the New Testament who can clearly be identified as not being Jewish. However, that is not the only possibility. Although Luke is considered likely to be a gentile Christian, some scholars believe him to be a Hellenized Jew. The phrase could just as easily be used to differentiate between those Christians who strictly observed the rituals of Judaism and those who did not.\n\nLuke's presence in Rome with the Apostle Paul near the end of Paul's life was attested by 2 Timothy 4:11: \"Only Luke is with me\". In the last chapter of the Book of Acts, widely attributed to Luke, there are several accounts in the first person also affirming Luke's presence in Rome, including : \"And when we came to Rome...\" According to some accounts, Luke also contributed to the authorship of the Epistle to the Hebrews.\n\nLuke died at age 84 in Boeotia, according to a \"fairly early and widespread tradition\". According to Nikephoros Kallistos Xanthopoulos, Greek historian of the 14th century (and others), Luke's tomb was located in Thebes, whence his relics were transferred to Constantinople in the year 357.\n\nThe Gospel of Luke does not name its author. The Gospel was not written and does not claim to be written by direct witnesses to the reported events, unlike Acts beginning in the sixteenth chapter. Analysis of the Gospel presents the possibility that Luke may have been a woman.\n\nThe earliest manuscript of the Gospel, dated circa AD 200, ascribes the work to Luke; as did Irenaeus, writing circa AD 180, and the Muratorian fragment from AD 170.\n\nThe gospel of Luke and the Acts of the Apostles make up a two-volume work which scholars call Luke–Acts. Together they account for 27.5% of the New Testament, the largest contribution by a single author.\n\nMost scholars understand Luke's works (Luke–Acts) in the tradition of Greek historiography. The preface of \"The Gospel of Luke\" drawing on historical investigation identified the work to the readers as belonging to the genre of history. There is some disagreement about how best to treat Luke's writings, with some historians regarding Luke as highly accurate, and others taking a more critical approach.\n\nBased on his accurate description of towns, cities and islands, as well as correctly naming various official titles, archaeologist Sir William Ramsay wrote that \"Luke is a historian of the first rank; not merely are his statements of fact trustworthy... [he] should be placed along with the very greatest of historians.\" Professor of Classics at Auckland University, E.M. Blaiklock, wrote: \"For accuracy of detail, and for evocation of atmosphere, Luke stands, in fact, with Thucydides. The Acts of the Apostles is not shoddy product of pious imagining, but a trustworthy record... it was the spadework of archaeology which first revealed the truth.\" New Testament scholar Colin Hemer has made a number of advancements in understanding the historical nature and accuracy of Luke's writings.\n\nOn the purpose of Acts, New Testament Scholar Luke Timothy Johnson has noted that \"Luke's account is selected and shaped to suit his apologetic interests, not in defiance of but in conformity to ancient standards of historiography.\" Such a position is shared by most commentators such as Richard Heard who sees historical deficiencies as arising from \"special objects in writing and to the limitations of his sources of information.\"\n\nDuring modern times, Luke's competence as a historian is questioned, depending upon one's \"a priori\" view of the supernatural. Since post-Enlightenment historians work with methodological naturalism, such historians would see a narrative that relates supernatural, fantastic things like angels, demons etc., as problematic as a historical source. Mark Powell claims that \"it is doubtful whether the writing of history was ever Luke's intent. Luke wrote to proclaim, to persuade, and to interpret; he did not write to preserve records for posterity. An awareness of this, has been, for many, the final nail in Luke the historian's coffin.\"\n\nRobert M. Grant has noted that although Luke saw himself within the historical tradition, his work contains a number of statistical improbabilities such as the sizable crowd addressed by Peter in Acts 4:4. He has also noted chronological difficulties whereby Luke \"has Gamaliel refer to Theudas and Judas in the wrong order, and Theudas actually rebelled about a decade after Gamaliel spoke (5:36–7)\"\n\nChristian tradition, starting from the 8th century, states that he was the first icon painter. He is said to have painted pictures of the Virgin Mary and Child, in particular the Hodegetria image in Constantinople (now lost). Starting from the 11th century, a number of painted images were venerated as his autograph works, including the Black Madonna of Częstochowa and Our Lady of Vladimir. He was also said to have painted Saints Peter and Paul, and to have illustrated a gospel book with a full cycle of miniatures.\n\nLate medieval Guilds of Saint Luke in the cities of Late Medieval Europe, especially Flanders, or the \"Accademia di San Luca\" (Academy of Saint Luke) in Rome—imitated in many other European cities during the 16th century—gathered together and protected painters. The tradition that Luke painted icons of Mary and Jesus has been common, particularly in Eastern Orthodoxy. The tradition also has support from the Saint Thomas Christians of India who claim to still have one of the Theotokos icons that Saint Luke painted and which St. Thomas brought to India.\n\nIn traditional depictions, such as paintings, evangelist portraits, and church mosaics, Saint Luke is often accompanied by an ox or bull, usually having wings. Sometimes only the symbol is shown, especially when in a combination of those of all Four Evangelists.\n\nDespot George of Serbia purportedly bought the relics from the Ottoman sultan Murad II for 30,000 gold coins. After the Ottoman conquest of Bosnia, the kingdom's last queen, George's granddaughter Mary, who had brought the relics with her from Serbia as her dowry, sold them to the Venetian Republic.\n\nIn 1992, the then Greek Orthodox Metropolitan Ieronymos of Thebes and Levathia (the current Archbishop of Athens and All Greece) requested from Bishop Antonio Mattiazzo of Padua the return of \"a significant fragment of the relics of St. Luke to be placed on the site where the holy tomb of the Evangelist is located and venerated today\". This prompted a scientific investigation of the relics in Padua, and by numerous lines of empirical evidence (archeological analyses of the Tomb in Thebes and the Reliquary of Padua, anatomical analyses of the remains, carbon-14 dating, comparison with the purported skull of the Evangelist located in Prague) confirmed that these were the remains of an individual of Syrian descent who died between 416 BC and AD 72. The Bishop of Padua then delivered to Metropolitan Ieronymos the rib of Saint Luke that was closest to his heart to be kept at his tomb in Thebes.\n\nThus, the relics of Saint Luke are so divided:\n\n\nReferences\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2360295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2360295", "title": "Lunel", "text": "Lunel\n\nLunel (Provençal: \"Lunèl\") is a commune in the Hérault department in southern France. According to legend, Lunel was founded by Jews from Jericho in the first century. It had a Jewish population by the first millennium, and an ancient synagogue is located there. \n\nLunel is located east of Montpellier and southwest of Nîmes (Gard).\n\nThe ancient Roman site of Ambrussum is located nearby. The troubadour Folquet de Lunel was from Lunel. \n\nLunel was a centre of Jewish learning. It is thought that the family of Rashi (1040–1105), the great Rabbi and commentator, originated in Lunel. Other scholars include Jonathan of Lunel, Meshullam ben Jacob of Lunel, his son Aaron ben Meshullam ben Jacob of Lunel, Abraham ben David who taught in Lunel before moving to Posquières, and Asher ben Meshullam of Lunel.\n\nLunel was the birthplace of Louis Feuillade (1873–1925), film director from the silent era. The artist Jean Hugo (1894-1984) lived in the Lunel area for most of his life and painted scenes from the surrounding countryside. The Parc Jean Hugo in the centre of the town was named after him.\n\nSince the 20th century, the town has been a destination for Muslim immigrants from Algerian and other parts of North Africa. In 2015 the \"New York Times\" reported that 10% of all the French people killed fighting in Syria for ISIS came from Lunel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1491116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1491116", "title": "Matthew 1:9", "text": "Matthew 1:9\n\nMatthew 1:9 is the ninth verse of the first chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the Bible. The verse is part of the non-synoptic section where the genealogy of Joseph, the legal father of Jesus, is listed, or on non-Pauline interpretations the genealogy of Jesus. The purpose of the genealogy is to show descent from the line of kings, in particular David, as the Messiah was predicted to be the son of David (2 Samuel 7:12; Psalms 89:3, 132:11, among others), and descendant of Abraham (Genesis 12:3; 22:18) .\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibRef Matthew 1:9\n\nThis part (the second section - David to the Babylon Removal - as summarized in ) of the list of Jesus' ancestry coincides with the list of the Kings of Judah that is present in a number of other parts of the Bible. Unlike other parts of Matthew's genealogy this list is fully in keeping with the other sources. Uzziah, was King of Judah (809 BC - 759 BC) (Amos 1:1) . According to William F. Albright, Jotham ruled from 742 BC until 735 BC and his son Ahaz ruled from his death until 715 BC. Ahaz's son Hezekiah ruled from 715 BC to 687 BC. Hezekiah was the king whose actions prompted the Babylonians to take the Jews into captivity, as prophesied in Isaiah 38 and mentioned in the genealogy at . Hezekiah had fifteen years added to his lifespan by God, due to his piety. \n\nThese kings are also listed in 2 Kings 14-16, together with narrative about their reigns. \n\nThe people mentioned in this section of the genealogy are all Kings of Judah.\n\ncodice_1\n\nSee above for two English versions, the King James and World English Bible. See the external links for many more modern translations.\n\nThe Latin Vulgate of Jerome gives:\n\nThe Koine Greek Byzantine text or majority text, and the textus receptus both read:\n\nConstantin von Tischendorf gives rather for the first king.\n\nWestcott-Hort offers the main reading and also a variant for the third king.\nNestle-Aland has instead of .\n\nThe Peshitta text is substantially different, translated it is: Awazea fathered Yoram Yoram fathered Yahoshapat fathered Khizaqea.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1444116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1444116", "title": "Mbuji-Mayi", "text": "Mbuji-Mayi\n\nMbuji-Mayi (formerly Bakwanga) serves as the capital city of Kasai-Oriental Province in the south-central Democratic Republic of Congo. It is the third largest city in the country, following the capital Kinshasa and second largest city Lubumbashi but ahead of Kisangani and Kananga, though the exact population is not known. Estimates ranged from a 2010 \"CIA World Factbook\" estimated population of 1,480,000 to as many as 3,500,000 estimated by the United Nations in 2008.\n\nMbuji-Mayi lies in Luba country on the Sankuru River. The name Mbuji-Mayi comes from the local language, Tshiluba, and translates as \"Goat-Water,\" a name deriving from the great number of goats in the region and the city's location on the Sankuru, making it a prime watering spot. Despite its large population, the city remains remote, having little connection to surrounding provinces or to Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. Air travel is provided through the Mbuji Mayi Airport.\n\nThe region where the city of Mbuji-Mayi now stands was once a cluster of villages on land owned by the Bakwanga clan. Diamonds were first discovered in the area as early as 1907, but the true value of the find was not recognised until 1913. Following the discovery, a mining camp designed to house miners and company officials of the Societé minière de Bakwanga (MIBA) was developed in the area.\n\nThe young city, known at the time as Bakwanga, grew quickly but around strict planning by MIBA, which divided the community into labor camps, mining areas and living quarters. The city's growth was not explosive, and planning was done with the needs of the mining company in mind, not the development of the region as a general population centre.\n\nIn fact, fearing theft of the company's diamond resources, the MIBA actively discouraged building in the region and closely monitored who went in and out of the region. Every person in the region needed a permit allowing them to be there, and registration at a command post that monitored the population, which made indefinite residence in the area almost impossible to establish. There was limited economic activity besides the company-run mining, with even limited agriculture, and the city's population remained low, at approximately 39,830 by the late 1950s.\n\nAs the city grew, more and more infrastructure needs required investment in roads, public works and hospitals. While several primary schools were developed for workers, until independence, there was no higher education available for the native population.\n\nThe area around Mbuji-Mayi is one of the richest sources of mineral wealth in the world. In the 1950s, it was estimated that the Mbuji-Mayi area had the world's most important industrial diamond deposits, containing at least 300 million karats of diamonds. The city was literally constructed on top of the diamond deposits, and while the city's reputation as a company town under tight control of Belgian economic interests meant it was neat and orderly, it also meant that the city's buildings and homes, including those of top MIBA executives, were sometimes demolished to access the diamonds.\n\nIn the earlier years, most of the diamonds mined in the area came from one large MIBA-controlled mine on the city's outskirts, but diamonds could also be easily found in the area's streams and waterways, making it possible for anyone to collect them.\n\nAs of 1963, Mbuji-Mayi-based MIBA was the source of 80 percent of the world's industrial diamonds and 57 percent of all diamonds.\n\nMbuji-Mayi grew rapidly upon Congolese independence in 1960 with the immigration of members of the Luba ethnic group from different parts of the country.\n\nShortly after independence, Albert Kalonji, a Luba tribal chief, declared himself ruler of the secessionist Mining State of South Kasai on Aug. 8, 1960 and established the city, still known as Bakwanga, as his capital. In April 1961, Kalonji declared himself as emperor of the region in a traditional tribal ceremony and then returned to Bakwanga, where he was \"carried through crowds of chanting, singing and cheering Balubas,\" and dancing continued outside his royal palace there for four days.\n\nThe celebrating was short-lived, as the central government Armée Nationale Congolaise (ANC) troops took control of the town and arrested Kalonji, by December 1961. After an escape from the jail in which he was being held, he briefly re-established his government. A second assault on the independent state was launched in the summer of 1962, with ANC government troops fighting poorly armed tribesmen outside of the city. Kalonji was captured again, on 4 October 1962, when ANC forces retook Bakwanga, effectively ending the region's independence. Soon after the end of the secession, Bakwanga was renamed Mbuji-Mayi after the local river in an attempt to signify a Luba intra-ethnicity reconciliation.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, Zaïre and Mobutu paid little attention to Mbuji-Mayi, offering almost no money to build roads, schools or hospitals.\n\nIn the political vacuum, MIBA stepped in. In the place of the federal government, MIBA invested heavily in the region by repairing roads, paying soldiers and supplying water and electricity to the city from its own power station. The company set up a social fund of $5 to $6 million a year, roughly 8 percent of its annual budget. This money went to repair infrastructure and to fund a new university.\n\nThe investments and ita position as largest employer made Jonas Mukamba Kadiata Nzemba the chief executive officer of MIBA one of the most powerful men in the region, and the de facto governor of Mbuji-Mayi. Nzemba, who was appointed by Mobutu in 1986, was considered one of the more powerful players in Mobutu's political party, the Mouvement Populaire pour le Revolution (MPR), but he also called himself a \"brother\" of Étienne Tshisekedi, a popular local political figure and Mobutu's most significant political opposition.\n\nNzemba is credited with creating the Conference pour le Developpement Economique de Kasai Oriental (CDEKO), a regional economic development group in the early 1990s. Nzemba also backed the creation of the University of Kasai, which was jointly sponsored by MIBA and the local Catholic Church, and which became the home base of CDEKO. The new organization spearheaded economic growth in Mbuji-Mayi, helped support the development of new agricultural and beer industry expansion around the city and launched Wetrafa, a locally owned airline.\n\nMobutu's willingness to let Nzemba control the province through MIBA came at a price, as Nzemba may have skimmed as much as $1.5 to $2 million a month to send to Mobutu's personal bank accounts.\nAlthough Nzemba and MIBA's largesse helped Mbuji-Mayi maintain some semblance of infrastructure and social services, at least by the standards of Zaïre, the city still struggled. Electricity was spotty, the university was broken down and the road system disintegrated with the rain. Outside of the sector of the city controlled by MIBA, the road network was virtually nonexistent, and in 1991, the entire city had only about 19.7 km of paved roads, all in poor condition. The state-run power plant went out of service in 1990, with an 11.8 mW hydroelectric plant run by MIBA as the only source of electricity, but frequent power outages led residents to other sources of heat and light, mainly wood and charcoal leading to widespread deforestation in the area.\n\nAs the First Congo War broke out, Nzemba initially sided with Mobutu against the rebels led by Laurent-Désiré Kabila, but as Kabila's Alliance of Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Congo-Zaire (AFDL or ADFLC) approached the city, Nzemba quickly switched sides.\n\nWhen the city fell to the rebels on April 4, 1997, looting by both sides took a toll on the city, particularly MIBA's mining operations. Nzemba was also summoned to Goma to speak with Kabila, who held him for several days, prompting his family to purchase advertising in newspapers publicising their concerns for his safety. Nzemba was released shortly after, but MIBA began making \"voluntary contributions\" to Kabila's war otally, an estimated $5.5 million in 1997 and 1998.\n\nIn October 1998, Mbuji-Mayi was occupied by both Zimbabwean and Chadian troops as they poured into the country to back up Kabila as the First Congo War began to grow.\n\nAs a commercial center, Mbuji-Mayi handles most diamond mining, panning, and production in the Congo. Societé minière de Bakwanga and Diamant International are the major diamond producers in the area.\n\nThe city had always been a major source of the world's diamonds and that did not change after independence, nor did the age-old tradition of diamond smuggling. But after independence, that ability of the government to control the diamond smuggling quickly eroded and diamond smuggling dramatically increased. The black market quickly eclipsed the official business, and in 1963, MIBA officially recorded producing 1.4 million karats of diamonds, while smugglers exported between 4 million and 6 million more karats.\n\nThe city lacks much of the organization and classic European architecture that other major cities in the DRC inherited from the Belgian colonists. Journalist Michela Wrong, described Mbuji-Mayi as \"a curiously soulless settlement, with no tangible centre ... It is purely functional conurbation, dedicated to making money, with little left over for less focused activities.\" Even today, much of the city revolves around the Avenue Inga, where diamond and mineral buyers have set up shop and the city's main business remains the diamond trade.\n\nKöppen-Geiger climate classification system classifies its climate as tropical wet and dry (Aw).\n\nUniversité de tshilenge\n"}
{"id": "31985477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31985477", "title": "Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions", "text": "Miscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions\n\nMiscellaneous Babylonian Inscriptions is a 1918, Sumerian linguistics and mythology book written by George Aaron Barton.\n\nIt was first published by Yale University Press in the United States and deals with commentary and translations of twelve cuneiform, Sumerian myths and texts discovered by the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology excavations at the temple library at Nippur. Many of the texts are extremely archaic, especially the Barton Cylinder, which Samuel Noah Kramer suggested may date as early as 2500 BC. A more modern dating by Joan Goodnick Westenholz has suggested the cylinder dates to around 2400 BC.\n\nSome of the myths contained in the book are shown below:\n\n"}
{"id": "49108593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49108593", "title": "N. S. B. Gras", "text": "N. S. B. Gras\n\nN. S. B. Gras (1884–1956) was a Canadian professor at the Harvard Business School who invented the academic discipline of Business History.\n\nGras was born in 1884 in Toronto, Ontario. He graduated from the University of Western Ontario. He went on to receive a PhD in Economics from Harvard University.\n\nGras taught Economics at the University of Minnesota.\n\nGras was appointed as Professor of Business History by Dean Wallace Brett Donham in 1927. He invented this new academic discipline, which only existed as his job title at the time. From the outset, Gras made sure to draw a distinction between \"economic history\" and \"business history.\" For Gras, economic history failed to focus on the role of the businessman as well as the role of business administration. Instead, the main goal of business history was to highlight those two components in the history of corporations and business developments.\n\nGras served as the president of the Business History Foundation. He was the founder and editor of the \"Journal of Economic and Business History\". He was also the editor of the \"Harvard Studies of Business History\".\n\nGras died in 1956.\n\n"}
{"id": "49643878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49643878", "title": "Nikolay Bugay", "text": "Nikolay Bugay\n\nNikolay Fyodorovich Bugay (born 19 December 1941) is a Russian historian. He is Doctor of Historical Sciences, Chief Researcher at the Institute of History of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and adviser of the Department of Interethnic Relations of the Ministry of Regional Development of Russia.\n\nBorn in Starotitarovskaya, Krasnodar Krai, Bugay graduated from the Kabardino-Balkarian State University in 1968.\n\nHe has worked as a scholar in multiple universities. He published numerous academic works on Stalinist repression and Stalin's deportations of the people within the USSR (Koreans, Germans, Meskhetian Turks, Crimean Tatars etc.)\n\nIn 1996, he was awarded the title, \"Honored Scientist of the Republic of Adygea\", and in 2009, the Board of Starotitarovskaya rural settlement awarded him a commemorative diploma: \"The title of Honorary Citizen of the village Starotitarovskaya, Temryuk district for his contribution to the history and culture of his native village.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47382567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382567", "title": "Ooni Giesi", "text": "Ooni Giesi\n\nOoni Giesi was the 20th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Ooni Ogboruu and was succeeded by \nOoni Luwoo.\n"}
{"id": "49368981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49368981", "title": "Operation Thao La", "text": "Operation Thao La\n\nOperation Thao La (21 November–16 December 1971) was a Royal Lao Government (RLG) dry season offensive during the Laotian Civil War, aimed at severing the Ho Chi Minh Trail and retrieving the Lao Bolaven Plateau from the grip of the People's Army of Vietnam. Its objectives were the use of recently captured Salavan as a jumpoff point for occupying Tha Theng and Ban Phong. Key to the plan was a prearranged daily allotment of supportive tactical air power.\n\nIn the event, the Royalists captured their two objectives. However, they lost both Salavan and Paksong to the North Vietnamese; they also failed to find the Communist transshipment point whose conquest would have interdicted the Trail.\n\nThe Ho Chi Minh Trail was central to the People's Army of Vietnam (PAVN) strategy for the conquest of South Vietnam during the Second Indochina War. When a series of nine CIA-sponsored incursions from Military Region 3 (MR 3) and Military Region 4 (MR 4) of the southern panhandle of the Kingdom of Laos during 1969 and 1970 failed to interdict the Trail, the massive Operation Lam Son 719 was staged on 8 February 1971 to cut it. In the wake of this failure, CIA backed Laotian guerrillas and Royal Lao Government military irregulars made further attempts at severing the logistical lines of communication.\n\nA string of Communist transshipment points, called \"Binh Trams\", stretched the length of the Trail. Each garrisoned by approximately a PAVN regiment, and was responsible for construction and maintenance of an assigned Trail segment. A \"Binh Tram\" typically consisted of motor transport battalions, combat engineer battalions, antiaircraft units, as well as medical personnel, infantry units for security, and a communications section.\n\nIn mid-May 1971, Operation Phoutah failed to secure the forward airfield at Moung Phalane as a starting point for Royalist attacks against the Trail. The three-day blood bath of Operation Phiboonpol from 9–11 June 1971 was indecisive. From 28 July through 31 October 1971, Operation Sayasila managed to wrest control of Route 23 and the towns of Salavan and Paksong and their associated airstrips from the (PAVN), but failed to conquer the entire Bolaven Plateau. Also, from 1–9 November, Operation Bedrock weakened the PAVN troops on the Trail by denying them rice. It also left \"Groupement Mobile 41\" (GM 41) field tested and ready for further operations.\n\nOperation Thao La was planned to take advantage of improved flying weather during the nascent dry season in Laos. Its objective was \"Binh Tram 37\", 30 kilometers east of Communist-held Thateng, Laos. U.S. Air Force (USAF) tactical air power was arranged, with 18 daily sorties allotted for the first two days, then 24 sorties daily for a fortnight. The dark hours would be covered by two gunship sorties per night. If Thao La was successful in smashing \"Binh Tram 37\", it would both restrict supplies to Communist forces in South Vietnam and starve the Communists off the Bolaven Plateau. Like the preceding Operation Sayasila, Operation Thao La was aimed at regaining control of the Plateau for the Royal Lao Government (RLG). The towns of Thateng and Ban Phone were to be captured from the PAVN in a three column multi-battalion offensive. As a preliminary move, the gains of Operation Sayasila needed to be protected. On 8 November, \"Bataillon Infanterie 9\" (BI 9) joined \"Bataillon Volontaire 46\" (BV 46) and \"Bataillon Volontaire 48\" (BV 48) in garrisoning Paksong. Four battalions from MR 3 returned to their base at Savannakhet.\n\nBecause of the American restrictions on Lao military planning, approval by the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff did not come through until 15 November. On 16 November, just prior to Thao La's scheduled start, a purported four battalion force of PAVN were reported by Royalist guerrillas, 19 kilometers northwest of Salavan. Tactical air strikes on the concentration resulted in about 70 enemy troops killed.\n\nOn 20 November 1971, the operation was preceded by ten sorties of defensive land mines air-dropped by the U.S. Air Force. Commando Raiders occupied a helicopter landing zone (HLZ) north of Ban Phone. On 21 November, USAF F-4 Phantom IIs struck the HLZ, and the 1,150 Royalist guerrillas of the \"Groupement Mobile 33\" (GM 33) regiment was lifted in unopposed from Salavan. By 1100 hours, it had secured the area with only minor opposition, and all four of its battalions encamped within two kilometers of the village.\n\nAlso on 21 November, three battalions of GM 41 swept south through the rice paddies outside of Salavan. With no appreciable resistance offered by the PAVN, the GM 41 column made it to Ban Nongnok, where they overran the 49th PAVN Field Hospital on the 23rd. At this time, USAF tactical air blasted an HLZ atop Phou Thioum. Although about 50 PAVN troops tried to defend the hilltop, USAF A-1 Skyraider strikes quelled them. After capturing the position, the fourth Royalist battalion of GM 41 established a fire base with a 75mm pack howitzer, three 75mm recoilless rifles, and three 81mm mortars. The Royalists could now drop artillery shells anywhere in the vicinity of Ban Nongnok.\n\nBy 25 November, all Royalist objectives had been secured except Tha Theng proper. The following day saw the Royalist reserve of two guerrilla battalions moved north from Lima Site 449 (LS 449) to reinforce the move into Tha Theng; by afternoon, the three year occupation by the Communists had been ended.\n\nOn 28 November, GM 33 began clearing Route 16 and its surrounding valley as it handed westward to link up with the Royalist troops in Tha Theng. It covered half the distance in the next two days, while meeting ever-increasing Communist resistance. On 1 December, it captured four trucks. Stretching into battalion line, the irregular regiment swept for PAVN rice caches and supply depots to deprive the Communists of materiel. Westward moving partisans began to struggle with trees downed to block Route 16. In the meantime, PAVN began a series of squad-sized attacks on Tha Theng. Meanwhile, at Paksong, the 9th PAVN Regiment had probed the Royalist defenses 21 times during November.\n\nOn 3 December at Tha Theng, a PAVN battalion attacked an irregular battalion. Meanwhile, intelligence reports made it clear that PAVN forces were coalescing near the former Communist transshipment point. As a counter, the USAF honored an emergency request and dropped aerial denial ordnance along two projected approach lanes to Tha Theng. The USAF also consented to extending the supply of 24 sorties of daily tactical air power for Thao La through 27 December 1971.\n\nAt 2200 hours 5 December, PAVN intruders began probing the Royalist positions at Salavan. Night long close air support by a Royal Lao Air Force (RLAF) AC-47 gunship helped the Royalist \"Bataillon Volontaires 41\" (BV 41) hold until near dawn. At 0500 hours, a PAVN force of at least three battalions struck Salavan. Raven Forward Air Controllers directed 60 sorties of tactical air strikes upon them throughout the morning and early afternoon. However, at 1430 hours, the Royalist commander called retreat; the monarchist regulars scattered west and north, leaving Salavan to the Communists, and further isolating the Royalist irregular troops at Tha Theng and Ban Phong.\n\nEven as Thao La unfolded, the PAVN continued their own offensive operations. By the end of the first week in December, Raven FACs noticed freshly built PAVN bunkers within 50 meters of Paksong's defenses. A skirmish on 8 December resulted in two Royalist killed and ten claimed PAVN dead. Air strikes called by the Royalists are estimated to have killed 20 more PAVN soldiers.\n\nAt 2000 hours on 9 December, four tanks and two PAVN infantry battalions struck GM 41 at Tha Theng. Striking from the north, they split in half to form two attacking columns. One of the tanks penetrated the Tha Theng perimeter, locked one tread, and spun on the other while firing in all directions, dispersing two of the Royalist guerrilla battalions. The two remaining RLG battalions clung to Tha Theng until reinforced. At 0430 on the 10th, the PAVN armor retreated. The Royalists had suffered 20 killed and 23 wounded, in return for unknown enemy losses. Raven FACs directed close air support sorties on the Communists for the remainder of the day. It also requested mining sorties along Route 23, to block or destroy PAVN tanks inbound to Salavan.\n\nMeanwhile, the PAVN still were trying to take Paksong. Between 10 and 12 December, there were several engagements, ranging from skirmishes between small units up to company engagements of several hours. At its fiercest, the battle escalated to use of B-40 rockets, DK-82 recoilless rifles, and 60mm mortars by the PAVN. In return, the Royalists called in RLAF T-28 Trojan strikes, AC-47 gunship fire missions, and artillery fire. On 13 December, the outpost of irregulars on Phou Nongkin relocated to the two peaks of Phou Thevada lying three kilometers east of Paksong. On 14 December, four battalions of Royalist guerrillas ambushed the PAVN as they gathered north of the town. Two days later, the same guerrilla force was hit by both 60mm and 82mm mortar fire backed by a ground assault from three sides. The guerrillas scattered in retreat.\n\nPresented with the dilemma of which objective was most valuable to their cause, the RLG opted on attempting to retake Salavan while holding Tha Theng. GM 33 was approaching Tha Theng from the east as it moved along Route 16. Leaving a small partisan garrison at Tha Theng, the RLG elected to move its four irregular battalions north for a surprise counterattack on Salavan. Beginning 8 December, troops that had withdrawn from Salavan began to rendezvous 32 kilometers west of town. They were mustered, re-equipped, and resupplied to attack northwards towards Salavan on 15 December. A USAF mission dropped both defensive area denial munitions and land mines under direction of Raven FACs. On 16 December, the four irregular battalions left Tha Theng to assault Salavan. Operation Thao La was officially ended.\n\nThe official end of Operation Thao La did not terminate Royalist military action. The recouped guerrillas from Tha Theng had closed to seven kilometers south-southeast of Salavan on 20 December. Two regular Royalist units, \"Bataillon Volontaires 41\" (BV 41) and \"Bataillon Volontaires 46\" (BV 46), were ordered into a flanking attack from the west, although they never budged. The Tha Theng irregulars directed tactical air strikes on the PAVN on 22 and 23 December despite poor flying weather; they followed up with a ground assault. An estimated 250 PAVN were killed in this action, but Salavan remained in Communist hands. The MR 4 command then decided that Salavan could not be held by the RLG even if recaptured. On 24 December, the four battalions of irregulars from Tha Theng joined BV 41 and BV 46 in a retreat from Salavan.\n\nNor did the PAVN action end coincide with Operation Thao La's finish. Even as a purported 1,000 PAVN troops bombarded forward positions at Paksong with mortar fire, making them difficult to reinforce and resupply, they also angled to cut Route 23 to entrap the Royalists. There was little retaliatory air power available; most tactical air power was being used against Salavan or on the Plain of Jars. On the evening of 18 December, headlights were spotted outside Paksong. On the 19th, tank tread marks were spotted 14 kilometers north of town; at least three tanks were suspected. By 24 December, PAVN troops were spotted on Route 23 between Paksong and the Royalist home base of Pakse. During the next two days, a number of PAVN heavy machine guns moved in on Paksong, complicating Royalist-backed aerial traffic. The bombardment of the town's northern defenses increased.\n\nOn 27 December 1971, two PAVN battalions closed in on Paksong. The two guerrilla battalions on Phou Thevada withdrew into the town. The guerrillas from north of town rushed in after taking 11 killed. Although the Royalist defenders outnumbered the attacking Vietnamese, they fled westward anyhow down Route 23 toward home. Four howitzers, five trucks, and smaller equipment were abandoned to the victors.\n\nOn 28 December, the PAVN entered Paksong and torched it. That evening, a tactical air strike destroyed the abandoned howitzers and trucks.\n\nOperation Thao La gained its two objectives of Tha Theng and Ban Phong by its official end on 16 December. However, it lost its offensive's launching point at Salavan in the process. It also failed to break the PAVN's grip on the eastern Bolavan Plateau where it overwatched the Ho Chi Minh Trail. Although the Royalists had gained their objectives at Tha Theng and Ban Phon, they also lost Salavan and Paksong. The RLG casualty list totaled 2,118—399 killed, 1,376 wounded, and 343 missing. GM 41 was especially hard hit. On the other side, PAVN casualties were deemed to be 653 killed by air, 551 killed in ground combat, and 763 wounded, totaling 1,967 dead or wounded.\n\nOperation Thao La failed to find \"Binh Tram 37\".\n\n"}
{"id": "406236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=406236", "title": "Paschal Beverly Randolph", "text": "Paschal Beverly Randolph\n\nPaschal Beverly Randolph (October 8, 1825 – July 29, 1875) was an African American medical doctor, occultist, spiritualist, trance medium, and writer. He is notable as perhaps the first person to introduce the principles of erotic alchemy to North America, and, according to A. E. Waite, establishing the earliest known Rosicrucian order in the United States.\n\nBorn in New York City, Randolph grew up in New York City. He was a free man of mixed-race ancestry, a descendant of William Randolph. His father was a nephew of John Randolph of Roanoke and his mother was Flora Beverly, whom he later described as being of mixed English, French, German, Native American and Malagasy ancestry. His mother died when he was young, leaving him homeless and penniless; he ran away to sea in order to support himself. From his adolescence through to the age of twenty, he worked as a sailor.\n\nAs a teen and young man, Randolph traveled widely, due to his work aboard sailing vessels. He journeyed to England, through Europe, and as far east as Persia, where his interest in mysticism and the occult led him to study with local practitioners of folk magic and various religions. On these travels he also met and befriended occultists in England and Paris, France.\n\nReturning to New York City in September 1855, after \"a long tour in Europe and Africa,\" he gave a public lecture to African Americans on the subject of emigrating to India. Randolph believed that \"the Negro is destined to extinction\" in the United States.\n\nAfter leaving the sea, Randolph embarked upon a public career as a lecturer and writer. By his mid-twenties, he regularly appeared on stage as a trance medium and advertised his services as a spiritual practitioner in magazines associated with Spiritualism. Like many Spiritualists of his era, he lectured in favor of the abolition of slavery; after emancipation, he taught literacy to freed slaves in New Orleans.\n\nIn addition to his work as a trance medium, Randolph trained as a doctor of medicine and wrote and published both fictional and instructive books based on his theories of health, sexuality, Spiritualism and occultism. He wrote more than fifty works on magic and medicine, established an independent publishing company, and was an avid promoter of birth control during a time when it was largely against the law to mention this topic.\n\nHaving long used the pseudonym \"The Rosicrucian\" for his Spiritualist and occult writings, Randolph eventually founded the Fraternitas Rosae Crucis in 1858, and their first lodge in San Francisco in 1861, the oldest Rosicrucian organization in the United States, which dates back to the era of the American Civil War. This group, still in existence, today avoids mention of Randolph's interest in sex magic, but his magico-sexual theories and techniques formed the basis of much of the teachings of another occult fraternity, the Hermetic Brotherhood of Luxor, although it is not clear that Randolph himself was ever personally associated with the Brotherhood.\n\nRandolph was the principal of the Lloyd Garrison School in New Orleans when on October 14, 1865, he wrote to Garrison in Boston requesting assistance for his school.\n\nRandolph described himself as a Rosicrucian. He had worked \"largely alone\", producing \"his own synthesis\" of \"esoteric teachings\".\nThe manner in which Randolph incorporated sex into his occult system was considered uncharacteristically bold for the period in which he lived.\n\nRandolph was a believer in pre-Adamism (the belief that humans existed on earth before the biblical Adam) and wrote the book \"Pre-Adamite Man: demonstrating the existence of the human race upon the earth 100,000 thousand years ago!\" under the name of Griffin Lee in 1863. His book was a unique contribution towards pre-Adamism because it wasn't strictly based on biblical grounds. Randolph used a wide range of sources to write his book from many different world traditions, esoterica and ancient religions. Randolph traveled to many countries of the world where he wrote different parts of his book. In the book he claims that Adam was not the first man and that pre-Adamite men existed on all continents around the globe 35,000 years to 100,000 years ago. His book was different from many of the other writings from other pre-Adamite authors because in Randolph's book he claims the pre-Adamites were civilised men while other pre-Adamite authors argued that the pre-Adamites were beasts or hominids.\n\nA peripatetic man, he lived in many places, including New York state, New Orleans, San Francisco, and Toledo, Ohio. He married twice: his first wife was African-American, his second wife was Irish-American.\n\nRandolph died in Toledo, Ohio, at the age of 49, under disputed circumstances. According to biographer Carl Edwin Lindgren, many questioned the newspaper article \"By His Own Hand\" that appeared in \"The Toledo Daily Blade\". According to this article, Randolph had died from a self-inflicted wound to the head. However, many of his writings express his aversion to suicide. R. Swinburne Clymer, a later Supreme Master of the \"Fraternitas\", stated that years after Randolph's demise, in a death-bed confession, a former friend of Randolph had conceded that in a state of jealousy and temporary insanity, he had killed Randolph. Lucus County Probate Court records list the death as accidental. Randolph was succeeded as Supreme Grand Master of the Fraternitas, and in other titles, by his chosen successor Freeman B. Dowd.\n\nRandolph influenced both the Theosophical Society and—to a greater degree—the Hermetic Brotherhood of Luxor.\n\nIn 1994, the historian Joscelyn Godwin noted that Randolph had been largely neglected by historians of esotericism. In 1996, a biography was published, \"Paschal Beverly Randolph: A Nineteenth-Century Black American Spiritualist, Rosicrucian, and Sex Magician\" by John Patrick Deveney and Franklin Rosemont.\n\nRandolph also edited the \"Leader\" (Boston) and the \"Messenger of Light\" (New York) between 1852 and 1861 and wrote for the \"Journal of Progress and Spiritual Telegraph\" .\n\nIt is also attributed to Randolph \"Affectional Alchemy and How It Works\" (c. 1870).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12281699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12281699", "title": "Polygoon (newsreel)", "text": "Polygoon (newsreel)\n\nThe Dutch Polygoon-Profilti was a cinema newsreel company in the Netherlands from 1919 to 1987. It started with weekly news items in the Dutch movie theaters and lasted until 1987 when it finally surrendered to television news shows.\n\nThe company was founded in 1919 and then made in-between movies for the silent movies of that time. Starting from 1921 it made ordered custom movies like 'the winning of brown coal \"Carisborg\"' (name translated) or 'Steam wheat mill \"Holland\" in Amsterdam' (name translated).\nThen in 1924 it started with cinema newsreel \"Hollands Nieuws\", first bi-weekly, from the 1930s weekly.\n\n\"Where they are not, nothing is happening\" was the motto of the cameramen of Polygoon who traveled through the Dutch country to capture news and local culture. There was a lot of competition at that time of other companies like Profilti and Haghefilm. Contracts for sport events, cameramen trying to cheat each other or fighting, aggressive sales methods and vague acquisitions were common.\n\nAfter World War II the Polygoon-journal had its glorydays; 400 different cinemas weekly showed \"Neêrlands Nieuws\" and \"Wereldnieuws\". In 1946 editor Philip Bloemendal (1918–1999) started as commentator; his particular voice became synonymous with Polygoon. Because of the emerge of the television in the late 1950s Netherlands the Polygoon journals lost attention, but it lasted until 1987 when it finally ended.\n\nCameramen employed by Polygoon had orders to fill their reels, no matter what. If not for news, then with the local celebrity or even shots of famous buildings or locations. Because of this Polygoon now is an archive of Stock footage available for other productions. The Polygoon archive is a valuable historical film archive. It is currently being digitalized by the Netherlands Institute for Sound and Vision located in Hilversum.\nSeveral Polygoon newsreels can also be found on YouTube.\n\n"}
{"id": "1118202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1118202", "title": "Richard Graham (historian)", "text": "Richard Graham (historian)\n\nRichard Graham (born 1934, in Goiás, Brazil) is a Brazilian/American historian specializing in nineteenth-century Brazil. He was formerly Professor of History, University of Texas at Austin, and is now professor emeritus there. He served as president of the Conference on Latin American History, the professional organization of Latin American historians.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45224157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45224157", "title": "Romulus Cândea", "text": "Romulus Cândea\n\nRomulus Cândea (October 7, 1886 – January 27, 1973) was an Austro-Hungarian-born Romanian ecclesiastical historian.\n\nBorn in Avrig, Szeben County, in the Transylvania region of Austria-Hungary, his father was a Romanian Orthodox priest. He studied at the German High School in Sibiu from 1897 to 1905, followed by the Theology Faculty at Czernowitz University in Bukovina from 1905 to 1909. The same institution granted him a doctorate in 1912, and he returned for a while to teach in Sibiu. He also continued to study history and philosophy at Leipzig University, earning a doctorate in philosophy and master's degree in fine arts there in 1916.\n\nFrom March 1915 to October 1919, he taught church history and pedagogy at the theological seminary in Sibiu. By the time he left, both Transylvania and Bukovina had united with Romania; from 1919 to 1922, he was professor of general church history at his alma mater in what was now Cernăuți. Between 1922 and 1940, when the area was occupied by the Soviet Union, he was professor within the department of medieval, modern and contemporary world history within the Literature and Philosophy Faculty at Cernăuți. For the 1923-1924 academic year, he was dean of the faculty, while from 1925 to 1926, he was rector of the university. In 1921, Cândea was involved in a student-led campaign to fire two Jewish professors, including Eugen Ehrlich, and wrote an article denouncing the \"ferocious pan-Germanism of a Jew\".\n\nIn 1929, Cândea was elected a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy. He was a lay member both of the Cernăuți Archdiocese's assembly and of the national church congress. A friend and trusted advisor to Ion Nistor, his professional achievements, in the opinion of historian Lucian Nastasă, did not amount to much. He also had a parallel career in politics, serving as mayor of Cernăuți from 1927 to 1929. Within the Romanian Parliament, he represented his university both in the Assembly of Deputies and in the Senate in a number of legislatures. He was a prominent member of the quasi-fascist Romanian Front, elected on Pentecost 1935 as its regional leader for Bukovina.\n\nBetween 1940 and 1947, Cândea was a professor of world history within the Literature and Philosophy Faculty of Cluj University, which met at Sibiu for the first five years of that period, due to the Second Vienna Award. In 1948, the new communist regime stripped Cândea of his Academy membership.\n"}
{"id": "44571684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44571684", "title": "Serb Democratic League", "text": "Serb Democratic League\n\nThe Serb Democratic League in the Ottoman Empire () was an Ottoman Serb political organisation established on August 13, 1908, at the First Serb Conference (August 10–13), immediately after the Young Turk Revolution.\n\nIt included the Serb elite of Old Raška, Kosovo and Metohija, and Vardar Macedonia and Aegean Macedonia. It included many members of the Serbian Chetnik Organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "58287724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58287724", "title": "Sujit Wongthes", "text": "Sujit Wongthes\n\nSujit Wongthes (or Wongthet) (b. 1945) is a Thai journalist, historian, and author.\n\nWongthes attended Silpakorn University, graduating from the archaeology program there. During his time at university, he wrote for the student journal \"Sangkhomsat Paritht\" (Social Science Review), in which he criticized excessive materialism and the Americanization of Thai culture; he wrote contemporaneously with Sulak Sivaraksa, who was the journal's editor at the time. He later wrote for \"Prachachat\", a newspaper associated with progressive elements of Thai society. After the military coup that toppled the Seni Pramoj administration, \"Prachachat\" was shut down. Three years later, Wongthes founded \"Sinlapa Watthanatham\", an arts and culture magazine, and served as the magazine's editor.\n\nOne of Wongthes' most famous works was titled \"Jek Phon Lao\", meaning \"Chinese mixed with Lao.\" In this work, he advanced the position that modern Thai are a mixture of native Lao people and Chinese migrants to Siam, as well as other groups. This contradicted the Thai nationalist historiography, which was based on the idea that Thais had been driven out of southern China and which pitted Thai identity against Chinese identity. He followed this work with \"Khon Thai Mai Dai Ma Chak Nai\" (\"The Thai Did Not Come From Somewhere Else\"), which further attacked nationalist ideas by showing Tai people still living happily in China.\n\nWongthes was recognized with a Sriburapha Award in 1993, and further awarded the title of National Artist in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "19770909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19770909", "title": "Taisu", "text": "Taisu\n\nThe Taisu (Chinese: 太素; pinyin: Tàisù), or Grand Basis, compiled by Yang Shangshan (楊上善), is one of four known versions of the \"Huangdi Neijing\" (\"Yellow Emperor's Inner Canon\"), the other three being the \"Suwen\", the \"Lingshu\", and the partially extant \"Mingtang\" (明堂 \"Hall of Light\").\n\nOn the basis of Yang Shangshan's official title at the time of compilation, Nathan Sivin argues that the \"Taisu\" was written in 656 or later, most likely under the reign of emperor Gaozong (mid-7th century) of the Tang dynasty, and that Yang compiled it from fragments of one or several post-Han versions of the \"Neijing\".\n\nHistorian of medicine Qian Chaochen, who had once claimed that Yang Shangshan died under the Sui dynasty (late 6th century), is now arguing that because Yang referred to the Palace Library as the \"Orchid Pavilion\" (\"lantai\" 蘭臺) in one of his notes, he must have compiled the \"Taisu\" sometime between 662 and 670, the few years during which that name was in use.\n\nSoon lost in China, the \"Taisu\" survived in manuscript copies in Japan, where it was re-discovered in the late 19th century. The content of the \"Taisu\" overlaps with parts of both the \"Suwen\" and the \"Lingshu\". It is an important text to consult when studying the history of Chinese medical ideas.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "31290142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31290142", "title": "The Nativity (television drama)", "text": "The Nativity (television drama)\n\nThe Nativity was a 58-minute United States television drama with music about the birth of Jesus Christ, presented on the television anthology \"Westinghouse Studio One\". Directed by Franklin Schaffner, it is a rare modern network television production of an authentic mystery play, mostly culled from the York and Chester mystery plays of the 14th and 15th centuries in England. The adaptation was by Andrew Allan. The presentation, originally telecast live the evening of December 22, 1952 on CBS, has been preserved on kinescope. It has been issued in several DVD public domain versions. It can also be seen complete online on Internet Archive.\n\nThe play was performed in what is now known as Elizabethan English. Although it takes its text straight from fifteenth-century English, the words were not pronounced as Middle English would be, but in a more modern manner. Musical selections were selected from Christmas carols and sung by the Robert Shaw Chorale. The cast included Thomas Chalmers, Paul Tripp, and Miriam Wolfe. Hurd Hatfield serves as narrator.\n\n\nIMDB page for \"The Nativity\" \n"}
{"id": "25965217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25965217", "title": "The Tall Target", "text": "The Tall Target\n\nThe Tall Target is a 1951 American historical thriller film directed by Anthony Mann and starring Dick Powell, Paula Raymond and Adolphe Menjou. Powell stars as a police sergeant who tries to stop the assassination of Abraham Lincoln at a train stop as Lincoln travels to his inauguration. It is based on the alleged Baltimore Plot.\n\nThe film's sets were designed by the art directors Eddie Imazu and Cedric Gibbons. \n\nNew York Police Sergeant John Kennedy once guarded Abraham Lincoln for 48 hours while he was campaigning for President of the United States, and came away deeply impressed by the man. Kennedy has infiltrated a cabal and discovered that an assassination attempt will be made as the president-elect makes his way by train via Baltimore to Washington, DC. His boss, Superintendent Simon G. Stroud (an uncredited Tom Powers), dismisses the threat as \"hogwash\", as does Caleb Jeffers (Adolphe Menjou), a militia colonel with whom Stroud is meeting. Kennedy resigns on the spot to try to foil the conspirators on his own. Having already sent a copy of his report to the Secretary of War, he telegrams Lincoln, urgently requesting a meeting in Baltimore.\n\nOn February 22, 1861, he boards the Night Flyer Express train bound for Baltimore and Washington, where Inspector Reilly (an uncredited Regis Toomey) is to give him his train ticket. However, Kennedy cannot find his friend. Without a ticket, he is forced to get off by conductor Homer Crowley (Will Geer), and there are no more tickets to be had. As the train starts pulling away, Kennedy sprints aboard anyway. Among the other passengers are Mrs. Charlotte Alsop (Florence Bates), an anti-slavery writer; Lance Beaufort (Marshall Thompson), a soldier from Georgia who plans to resign and enlist in the Confederate army; his sister Ginny (Paula Raymond); and their slave Rachel (Ruby Dee).\n\nAfter much searching, Kennedy finally discovers Reilly's body on the exterior platform of a car, but the corpse slips off the train as he is reaching for it. When he returns to what should have been his berth, he finds an imposter (Leif Erickson) claiming to be him and in possession of his ticket. The conductor is summoned. Fellow passenger Jeffers vouches for Kennedy and gives him a spare ticket to share his compartment.\n\nThe imposter forces Kennedy off the train at gunpoint at the next stop, planning to kill him when the train whistle sounds. Kennedy grapples with him. The commotion attracts Jeffers' attention, and the colonel shoots and kills the conspirator. When they reboard, Jeffers offers Kennedy first use of the only bed in their compartment. After Kennedy appears to be dozing, Jeffers steals the derringer he had loaned the ex-policeman and shoots him. Kennedy had become suspicious (as Jeffers' shot could easily have hit him) and tampered with the bullet. Jeffers confesses he is in the plot in order to protect his shares in Northern cotton mills, which would be adversely affected by war.\n\nAt the next stop, Kennedy tries to have Jeffers arrested, but Jeffers obtains confirmation by telegram from Stroud that Kennedy is no longer a police officer, and it is Kennedy who is taken into custody by Lieutenant Coulter (Richard Rober). Rachel tries to give Kennedy an urgent message, but is brushed off by Coulter. Kennedy manages to escape and get back on the train. Meanwhile, the exasperated conductor is ordered to hold the train until a special package is delivered. Passenger Mrs. Gibbons (an uncredited Katherine Warren) meets and takes aboard her ailing husband.\n\nKennedy runs into Rachel, who informs him that Beaufort is getting off at Baltimore, not Atlanta as he had claimed. He is taken prisoner by Beaufort and tied up in Jeffers' compartment. The plotters are disappointed, however, when they receive news that Lincoln has cancelled his speech at Baltimore, where Beaufort was to assassinate him.\n\nJeffers gets off, but as the train is pulling away, he remembers Mrs. Gibbons; he surmises her \"husband\" is actually Lincoln in disguise. Running after the train, he manages to alert Beaufort. Kennedy, however, frees himself and, in the ensuing struggle, sends the would-be assassin tumbling from the speeding train. Afterward, Mrs. Gibbons tells Kennedy that she is an undercover Pinkerton agent, and that his report to the War Department was read by Allan Pinkerton, who persuaded Lincoln to cancel his speech and travel incognito on the train as the ailing Mr. Gibbons.\n\n\nAccording to MGM records the film earned $473,000 in the US and Canada and $147,000 elsewhere, resulting in a loss of $608,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "9336716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9336716", "title": "The Trail of Blood", "text": "The Trail of Blood\n\nThe Trail of Blood (1931) is a book by American Baptist minister James Milton Carroll. It is a collection of five lectures he gave on the history of Baptist churches, which he presented as a succession from the first Christians. \n\nThe full title is \"The Trail of Blood -: Following the Christians Down through the Centuries - or, The History of Baptist Churches from the Time of Christ, Their Founder, to the Present Day\". Carroll presents modern Baptists as the direct succession of a strain of Christianity dating to apostolic times, which was a Landmarkist view first promoted in the mid-nineteenth century by James Robinson Graves. He started an influential movement in Tennessee and the western states. The Landmark controversy divided many Baptists, and ultimately led to the formation of the American Baptist Association in 1924, as well as Gospel Missions and unaffiliated churches. \n\nCarroll claims a descent by modern Baptists from such earlier groups as the Waldensians, the Cathari, the Paulicians, and the Donatists. Carroll acknowledges a number of other writers, including G.H. Orchard and John T. Christian. The title is taken from James Robinson Graves' \"The Trilemma\". The book was published in the year Carroll died. Today the copyright to Carroll's book is held by Ashland Avenue Baptist Church in Lexington, Kentucky.\n\nJames Edward McGoldrick wrote a response to Carroll's work called \"Baptist Successionism\" which gave researched opposition to the theory of \"Baptist Successionism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58829765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58829765", "title": "Timeline in the period of the Slavic migrations", "text": "Timeline in the period of the Slavic migrations\n\nAccording to some Medieval authors, between 580 AD and 700 AD a great number of Slavic\ntribes entered the lands of the Byzantine Empire, the groups of Slavs arrived to\nthe regions of Serbia, Macedonia, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro, Bulgaria,\nGreece and Kosovo. The Slavs as described from the Byzantine author Procopius were\npeople with light blond hair, long skulled and were tall.\nA German historiographer by the name of Jordanes mentions that the Venethi sub-\ndivided into three groups : Venethi, Antes and the Sclaveni. Later the\nSclaveni began moving southwards towards the Danube river, while the Antes began\nmoving southeast towards the Black Sea. These tribes as mentioned by Jordanes\nall spoke a Slavic dialect.\n"}
{"id": "58742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58742", "title": "Timeline of materials technology", "text": "Timeline of materials technology\n\nMajor innovations in materials technology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53719416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53719416", "title": "Timeline of the 21st century", "text": "Timeline of the 21st century\n\nThis is a timeline of the 21st century.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16365732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16365732", "title": "Tsar Maximilian", "text": "Tsar Maximilian\n\nTsar Maximilian () is a well-known and complex Russian folk theatre, having enjoyed wide popularity throughout European Russia from the 18th to the early 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892818", "title": "Werner Rolevinck", "text": "Werner Rolevinck\n\nWerner Rolevinck (1425–1502) was a Carthusian monk and historian who wrote about 50 titles. He was born near Laer, Westphalia, the son of a wealthy farmer. In 1447 he entered Cologne Charterhouse, where he later died. His most famous work was his history of the world from Creation to Pope Sixtus IV, the \"Fasciculus temporum\" (\"Little bundles of time\"), which was published in many editions and translations between 1474 and 1726, including almost 40 editions during his lifetime. His other well-known work was a description of the manners and customs of his native land entitled \"De laude veteris Saxsoniæ nunc Westphaliæ dictæ\".\nHis master work was translated into French in 1495 by Pierre Desrey as \"Fleurs et manières des temps passés\".\n\n"}
