{"id": "26741400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26741400", "title": "A. Tom Grunfeld", "text": "A. Tom Grunfeld\n\nA. Tom Grunfeld AKA Tom Grunfeld (born 1946) is SUNY Distinguished Teaching Professor at Empire State College of the State University of New York, who specializes in the modern history of East Asia, particularly of China and .\n\nGrunfeld received his BA from the State University of New York at Old Westbury (1972), MA in Chinese history from the School of Oriental and African Studies (1973), and PhD from New York University (1985). \n\nHe is often asked to comment on current Chinese and Tibetan affairs for the BBC and CNN International. The discussion is politicized. Those opposing Chinese entrance into Tibet, writes T. Neuhaus, sometimes emphasized \"deeper\" knowledge rather than fact gathering, and accused Grunfeld and Melvyn Goldstein saying that \"they should know better\" than to criticize pre-1950s Tibet for being a feudal society.\n\nJohn Powers writes that Chinese and Tibetan writers attack each other in emotional language, and that the two sides \"stake out extreme and uncompromising positions.\" Tibetan authors impugn Grunfeld's integrity and his authority to write. Powers classifies Grunfeld and Israel Epstein among those who \"enthusiastically endorse the Chinese version of events and use much the same language as do Chinese writers to describe conditions in Tibet prior to the 1950s.\" Grunfeld, continues Powers, paints a picture of a \"brutal, exploitative, and primitive society,\" one that was stratified into a nobility living in opulence while the majority of the people were serfs and slaves.\n\nGrunfeld has been a member of the US–China Peoples Friendship Association and a staff member and contributor to its journal \"New China\", as well as a member of the Committee of Concerned Asian Scholars and contributor to its publication, \"Bulletin of Concerned Asian Scholars\" (now \"Critical Asian Studies\"). According to Jamyang Norbu, he speaks neither Chinese nor Tibetan, and used neither Tibetan nor Chinese sources in his book.\n\nRegarding American journalist Edgar Snow (1905–1972), Grunfeld has concluded that he was not a Communist Party member, although he was sympathetic: Having read through several decades (1920s-1960s) of Snow's diaries, countless pages of correspondence, his FBI file, two biographies, at least one MA thesis and countless articles leads me to believe he was not a member of the CPUSA... That he was sympathetic to some of their ideas and activities is, to my mind, beyond doubt.\n\nGrunfeld has received numerous awards funding travel and research from institutions including the National Endowment for the Humanities (1984), the Research Foundation of City University of New York (1985), the State University of New York, and the Ford Foundation (1993). He has also been a Fulbright Senior Scholar (2009). \n\nGrunfeld wrote his doctoral dissertation on \"Friends of the Revolution: American Supporters of China's Communists, 1926–1939\" (New York: University Microfilms International: 1985).\n\nBooks: Books written, edited, or co-written or co-edited include: \n\nArticles: Articles published include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7193131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7193131", "title": "African-American middle class", "text": "African-American middle class\n\nThe black middle class consists of black Americans who have middle-class status within the American class structure. It is a societal level within the African-American community that primarily began to develop in the early 1960s, when the ongoing Civil Rights Movement led to the outlawing of \"de jure\" racial segregation. The gains accrued by the Civil Rights Era are strongly correlated with the emergence of a new black middle class.\n\nWhile the vast majority of whites are centrally middle-class, the majority of African Americans are considered working-class. In terms of income, the narrowest view of a household with a middle-class income is considered $39,100 to $62,000, while a more generous view is $20,291 to $100,000. In 2009, the mean household income for white Americans was $54,461. On the other hand, the mean African-American household income was $32,584, which is viewed as a working-class income.\n\nAs of the 2010 Census, black households had a median income of $32,068, which placed the median black household within the second income quintile. 27.3% of black households earned an income between $25,000 and $50,000, 15.2% earned between $50,000 and $75,000, 7.6% earned between $75,000 and $100,000, and 9.4% earned more than $100,000.\n\nAlthough the composition of the black middle class varies by definition, the black middle class is typically divided into a lower-middle class, core middle class, and an upper-middle class. The black lower-middle class is concentrated in sales, clerical positions, and blue-collar occupations, while the black upper-middle class (sometimes combined into the black upper class) is characterized by highly educated professionals in white-collar occupations, such as health care professionals, lawyers, professors, and engineers.\n\nMany African-Americans had limited opportunities for advancement to middle class status prior to 1961 because of racial discrimination, segregation, and the fact that most lived in the rural South. In 1960, forty-three percent of the white population completed high school, while only twenty percent of the black population did the same. African-Americans had little to no access to higher education, and only three percent graduated from college. Those blacks who were professionals were mainly confined to serving the African-American population. Outside of the black community, they often worked in unskilled industrial jobs. Black women who worked were frequently domestic servants. However, black women in the post-slavery emerging middle class also worked as teachers, nurses, businesswomen, journalists and other professionals. \n\nEconomic growth, public policy, black skill development, and the civil rights movement all contributed to the surfacing of a larger black middle class. The civil rights movement helped to remove barriers to higher education. As opportunities for African-Americans expanded, blacks began to take advantage of the new possibilities. Homeownership has been crucial in the rise of the black middle class, including the movement of African-Americans to the suburbs, which has also translated into better educational opportunities. By 1980, over 50% of the African-American population had graduated from high school and eight percent graduated from college. In 2006, 86% of blacks between age 25 and 29 had graduated from high school and 19% had completed a bachelor's degrees. As of 2003, the percentage of black householders is 48%, compared to 43% in 1990.\n\nThe rise to the middle class for African-Americans throughout the 1960s, however, leveled off and began to decline in the following decades due to multiple recessions that struck America throughout the 1970s and 1980s. Blacks and other lower-class groups suffered the brunt of those recessions. In addition, with beliefs in \"reverse racism\" prevailing, aiding programs that were enacted during the Civil Rights Movement to improve the state of the black community began being heavily opposed and overturned by the late 1970s and into the 1980s. There is also evidence to suggest the wealth gap has been exacerbated by the housing market bubble in 2006 and the recession that followed from late 2007 to mid-2009, which took a far greater toll on depleting minority wealth. According to Inequality.org, \"the median black family is actually only worth $1,700 when you deduct these durables. In contrast, the median white family holds $116,800 of wealth using the same accounting methods. Some historical context: In South Africa during apartheid, the median black family held about 7 percent of typical white South African family net worth. Today, using New York University Professor Edward Wolff’s analysis, the median African-American family holds a mere 1.5 percent of median white American family wealth. As shown on Eurweb.com, of the 14 million black households in the U.S. in 2015, only 5% had more than $350,000 in net worth, and less than 1% of black families had over $1 million in net assets.\n\nAccording to a 2011 study from Pew Research Center, whites possess 20 times more wealth than African-Americans and 18 times that of Latinos. Whereas white families have accumulated $113,149 of wealth on average, black households have only accumulated $5,677 in wealth on average.\n\nAs of 1999, whites and blacks similarly situated within the \"educational middle class\" live in distinct wealth worlds. Whereas educationally middle-class whites possessed $111,000 in median net worth, educationally middle-class black families had only $33,500; in terms of assets, the disparity was $56,000 to $15,000. Looking at only \"the occupational middle-class\", an equally pronounced gap is visible: middle-class whites had $123,000 in median net worth and $60,000 in median net financial assets compared to $26,500 and $11,200 for middle-class African-Americans. Across the various categories that comprise the middle class, white families possess \"between three and five times as much wealth as equally achieving black middle class families.\" For each dollar of income a family earns, white families earn $3.25 in net worth and black families accumulate just under $2 of net worth for each dollar earned.\n\nThe Huffington Post article \"America's Financial Divide\" added context to racial wealth inequality stating \"Relying on data from Credit Suisse and Brandeis University's Institute on Assets and Social Policy, the Harvard Business Review in the article \"How America's Wealthiest Black Families Invest Money\" recently took the analysis above a step further. In the piece, the author stated \"If you're white and have a net worth of about $356,000, that's good enough to put you in the 72nd percentile of white families. If you're black, it's good enough to catapult you into the 95th percentile.\" This means 28 percent of the total 83 million white homes, or over 23 million white households, have more than $356,000 in net assets. While only 700,000 of the 14 million black homes have more than $356,000 in total net worth...According to the Slate.com article \"The Wealth Gap Between Blacks and Whites is Even More Enormous Than You Think\", the median net worth of white families is $116,000. This indicates 41 million white households across the nation have over $116,000 in net worth. In comparison, nearly 40 percent or 5.6 million African-American homes in the U.S. have zero or negative net worth. In addition, when you deduct the family car as an asset, the median net worth of black families in America is only $1,700.\"\n\nA recent piece on Inequality.org \"Black Wealth Hardly Exists, Even When You Include NBA, NFL and Rap Stars\" stated this about the difference between black middle class families, and white middle class families. \"Going even further into the data, a recent study by the Institute for Policy Studies (IPS) and the Corporation For Economic Development (CFED) found that it would take 228 years for the average black family to amass the same level of wealth the average white family holds today in 2016. All while white families create even more wealth over those same two hundred years. In fact, this is a gap that will never close if America stays on its current economic path. According to the Institute on Assets and Social Policy, for each dollar of increase in average income an African-American household saw from 1984 to 2009 just $0.69 in additional wealth was generated, compared with the same dollar in increased income creating an additional $5.19 in wealth for a similarly situated white household.\"\n\nAuthor Lilian Singh wrote on why the perceptions about black life created by media are misleading in the American Prospect piece \"Black Wealth On TV: Realities Don’t Match Perceptions\". \"Black programming features TV shows that collectively create false perceptions of wealth for African-American families. The images displayed are in stark contrast to the economic conditions the average black family is battling each day.\"\n\nMost contemporary wealth is built on the concept of home equity. Present-day income is thus an insufficient measure of household socioeconomic status. Looking at disparities between wealth accumulation among African-Americans and whites paints a far more accurate picture of racial socioeconomic differences. The estimated median wealth of black households is $35,000, while white households estimated their parent's median wealth at $150,000 Thus, a middle-income African-American who makes an impressive salary may still be disadvantaged in light of asset poverty and deprivation.\n\nFor African-Americans who were historically denied access to housing wealth, they face a substantial wealth disparity compared to whites. Asset poverty affects an African-American's ability to procure other forms of middle class lifestyle and other forms of wealth. Asset poverty is built on an intergenerational nature of wealth, in which fewer assets are bequeathed to future generations, crippling the aggregate amount of wealth accumulated in a given family. Wealth is transferable from generation to generation, allowing people to generate more wealth, borrow money for investments, and to invest in education, housing, and future wealth. The history and legacy of discrimination still has ripple effects crippling the black middle class. One policy that can potentially enable African-Americans to rise out of asset poverty is the implementation of Individual Development Account (IDA) programs that specifically target people of color and help them use matched savings to acquire assets like their first home, a post-secondary education and small businesses.\n\nIn a project conducted by the University of Washington's Civil Rights and Labor History Program in 2010, it was found that more than 400 properties in Seattle suburbs alone contained now illegal discriminatory language that formerly excluded several ethnic groups.\n\nAnother barrier is discriminatory mortgage lending patterns and redlining. In applying for a home mortgage, African-American and Hispanic customers are 82% more likely to be turned down for a loan than were white customers. Black renters also favored a 10.7 percent chance of being totally excluded from housing made available to comparable white renters and a 23.3 percent chance of learning about fewer apartments.\n\nDiscrimination in housing practices and residential segregation leads to substantial wealth gaps across races. Home ownership is typically a source of insurance against poverty. However, for blacks and Hispanics, home ownership rates have never made it past 50%.\n\nAnother problem facing lower middle-class African-Americans is their close proximity and ties to poor African-Americans. Most of the lower middle-class black neighborhoods in the U.S. are adjacent to poor, struggling, urban areas and neighborhoods. For the most part, lower middle-class African-Americans and poor African-Americans share the same communities and environments. This is in part due to African-Americans being much more likely to have poor family members, as much of today's middle-aged and elderly African-Americans are very likely to have grown up in poverty. In fact, due to previous generations of racial discrimination, the African-American rise to the lower middle-class is a development that largely only took off by the 1960s during the height of the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nBecause of the close living quarters between lower middle-class African-Americans and poor African Americans, there is high potential for lower middle-class African-Americans to develop friendships, relationships, and ties to poor African-Americans and find themselves sharing the same urban environments. As a result, sociologists have found that the African-American community's middle class has a greater potential than do middle-class whites of being involved with crime and falling victim to crimes. As for centrally middle-class African-Americans, they not only make up a racial class that is relatively scant in number, but they make up a racial class that is left with the unenviable options of either living in working-class black neighborhoods adjacent to struggling, urban environments or living in suburban areas where they are vastly outnumbered by whites.\n\nSegregated housing patterns also keep African-Americans far from suburbanizing jobs and associated job information networks. This mismatch between residential locations and employment reduce the employment options for middle- and lower-class African-Americans. These segregated housing patterns are supported by discriminatory mortgage lending practices and overt attempts to keep suburban neighborhoods racially exclusive. Although most African-Americans are not living below the poverty line, what is middle-class for most white Americans is vastly different to what is middle-class for most African-Americans. The few black professionals in all-white neighborhoods are not representative of the African-American middle class by any stretch. Rather, most African-Americans are lower middle-class living from paycheck to paycheck, employed in such jobs as retail, and facing many problems and circumstances worse off even than poor whites. Hence, what is vastly missing from the African-American community is a cohesive, central middle class.\n\nThere is a significant black suburbanization lag, in which African-Americans are less likely than others to adopt suburban residential patterns. Because of institutional housing discrimination and discriminatory lending practices, the black middle class is more likely to reside in neighborhoods composed mainly of African-Americans. These neighborhoods tend to be close to inner-city neighborhoods and replicate the problems of the inner city.\n\nHispanics and Asians, on the other hand, are likely to be suburbanized at far higher rates than African-Americans. Even when African-Americans do reside in contemporary suburbs, they are less likely to gain access to the same range of benefits and amenities as their white peers.\n\nBlack suburbs tend to be areas of low socioeconomic status and population density. Many are former manufacturing suburbs with weak tax bases, poor municipal services, and high levels of debt, compromising the secure middle-class lifestyle of its African-American inhabitants. These black middle-class neighborhoods also tend to have inflated house values and lower home equity because racial segmentation of suburban housing markets restricts demand for housing in black suburbs. The low socioeconomic character of these black middle-class neighborhoods, in turn, undermines the ability of the black middle class to build wealth on depreciated and undervalued black suburbs. \n\nOne reason for the racial achievement gap is lack of quality schools in black middle-class neighborhoods. Minority children tend to be concentrated in low-achieving, highly segregated schools. Quality of public education in residential areas across the United States is linked to neighborhood socioeconomic status. Because middle-class African-Americans tend to reside in segregated neighborhoods of lower socioeconomic character, they often attend struggling public schools which cannot provide the same academic resources as quality suburban schools.\n\nHistorically, programs designed for black school systems to succeed were all dropped by the early 1980s. Monetary funds were instead put into suburban schools, bolstering white flight, and causing black schools to deteriorate in quality. The disparity in expenditures on education between inner cities and affluent suburbs exist almost entirely due to the system of property taxes which most school systems rely on for funding. By attending spatially segregated school systems, children of the black middle class are locked out of the same educational and employment opportunities as their white counterparts. In general, minority students are more likely to reside in lower or middle class inner city neighborhoods, meaning minority students are more likely to attend poorly funded schools based on the districting patterns within the school system. Schools in lower-income districts tend to employ less qualified teachers and have fewer educational resources. Research shows that teacher effectiveness is the most important in-school factor affecting student learning. Good teachers can actually close or eliminate the gaps in achievement on the standardized tests that separate white and minority students.\n\nThe culture and environment in which children are raised may play a role in the achievement gap. For example, many black middle-class households are headed by a single parent who may not have the time to devote to a child's education. Another explanation that has been suggested for racial and ethnic differences in standardized test performance is that standardized IQ tests and testing procedures are culturally biased toward European-American middle class knowledge and experiences. Social psychologist Claude Steele suggests that minority children and adolescents may also experience stereotype threat—the fear that they will be judged to have traits associated with negative appraisals and/or stereotypes of their race or ethnic group which produces test anxiety and keeps them from doing as well as they could on tests. According to Steele, minority test takers experience anxiety, believing that if they do poorly on their test they will confirm the stereotypes about inferior intellectual performance of their minority group. As a result, a self-fulfilling prophecy begins, and the child performs at a level beneath his or her inherent abilities. Some researchers also hypothesize that in some cases, minorities, especially African American students, may stop trying in school because they do not want to be accused of \"acting white\" by their peers. It has also been suggested that some minority students simply stop trying because they do not believe they will ever see the true benefits of their hard work. As some researchers point out, minority students may feel little motivation to do well in school because they do not believe it will pay off in the form of a better job or upward social mobility. By not trying to do well in school, such students engage in a rejection of the achievement ideology—that is, the idea that working hard and studying long hours will pay off for students in the form of higher wages or upward social mobility.\n\nAchieving higher education is strongly correlated with the affluence of African-Americans and their access to professional jobs. Recently, there has been a growth of historically black colleges to serve the black middle class in terms of higher education prospects. Historically black colleges and universities were formed because people classified as black were not allowed to attend existing colleges and universities for the most part. Despite systematic inequalities and discrimination, HBCUs were able to provide a culturally affirming, psychologically supportive academic environment for ambitious black middle-class students. Research shows historically black colleges and universities contribute significantly to the black middle class and the nation's economy. In spite of fewer resources and lower endowment funds, historically black colleges and universities produce an impressive number of graduates in education and STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) fields. However, debates linger on the effectiveness of historically black colleges and universities. Specific concerns are whether historically black colleges and universities provide equivalent quality of education and whether they foster racial exclusivity.[citation needed]\n\nSub-Saharan African immigrants to the United States tend to have higher income levels than African-Americans due to their higher education levels. (Sub-Saharan Africans are distinguished from African-Americans, who are the descendants of America's black slaves.) In addition, African immigrants have the highest educational attainment rates of all American ethnic groups, with higher levels of completion than the commonly stereotyped Asian-American model minority. Like most Asian-Americans, Africans came to America in the last few decades after the Civil Rights Movement era ended. Prior to the mid-1970s, there were very few non-white immigrants because of immigration laws banning non-whites; that is, up until the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, which was an extension of (and made possible by) the Civil Rights Movement. Despite this, U.S. immigration policies are still discriminatory insofar as favoring immigrant candidates that have professional skills and higher educational levels over the many immigrant candidates who do not. In addition to this, it was found in a study that non-Mexican immigrants who can't simply cross the border, but must be able to pay for transatlantic journey, usually come to the U.S. already educated with middle-class backgrounds.\n\nIn 1997, 24.6 percent of all adult white Americans and 13.3 percent of all African-Americans held bachelor's degrees, while 48.9 percent of African immigrants held bachelor's degrees. Though the U.S. Census Bureau counts white populations who emigrated from Africa in the same category as black Africans, it shows African immigrants were more than three times as likely to hold a bachelor's degree than native-born African-Americans. Despite the high educational achievement of African immigrants, they still tend to have lower median household incomes compared to other immigrant groups. Many African immigrants hold strong ties to their home countries and send remittances to their relatives.\n\nAs of 2010, the poverty rate among non-Hispanic whites was 9.9%, whereas the poverty rate among African-Americans was 27.4%.\n\nLong-term poverty is rare for whites. Almost 9 out of 10 long-term poor children are African-American and more than 6 out of 10 long-term poor children have spent time in single-parent families. Poverty in a child's most formative years is critical to shaping a child's future attainments in terms of test scores, schooling, fertility choices, labor market outcomes and incomes. Research has shown that parents who devote all of their time to meeting consumption needs have little time, money, and energy left to improve their own lives and their children's education and skills.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57850084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57850084", "title": "Amarna letter EA 23", "text": "Amarna letter EA 23\n\nAmarna letter EA 23, titled: \"A Goddess Travels to Egypt\" is a short letter to Pharaoh from Tushratta. Due to the ill health of Pharaoh, a statue of Goddess Šauška is being sent to Egypt, to aid in the health of Pharaoh.\n\nEA 23, letter seven of thirteen from Tushratta. (Not a linear, line-by-line translation.)\n\n\"Obverse\" ()\n\n\"Reverse\" (Image: )\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6519975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6519975", "title": "Beat (filmmaking)", "text": "Beat (filmmaking)\n\nA beat is the timing and movement of a film or play. In the context of a screenplay, it usually represents a pause in dialogue. In the context of the timing of a film, a beat refers to an event, decision, or discovery that alters the way the protagonist pursues his or her goal.\n\nBeats are specific, measured, and spaced to create a pace that moves the progress of the story forward. Audiences feel uneven or erratic beats. Uneven beats are the most forgettable or sometimes tedious parts of a film. Erratic beats jolt the audience unnecessarily. Every cinematic genre has a beat that is specific to its development. Action film has significantly more beats (usually events); drama has fewer beats (usually protagonist decisions or discovery). Between each beat a sequence occurs. This sequence is often a series of scenes that relates to the last beat and leads up to the next beat.\n\nIn most American films the beat falls approximately every five minutes. Following is a beat example from \"The Shawshank Redemption\":\n\n\nAfter each beat listed above, a significant series of results takes place in the form of the sequence, but what most people remember are the beats, the moment something takes place with the protagonist.\n\nStories are divided into Acts, Acts into Sequences, Sequences into Scenes, and Scenes into Beats. Robert McKee uses the word \"beat\" differently than it is described above. He describes the Beat as \"the smallest element of structure...(Not to be confused with...an indication...meaning 'short pause')\". He defines a Beat as: \"an exchange of behavior in action/reaction. Beat by Beat these changing behaviors shape the turning of a scene.\" Specifically, a scene will contain multiple beats, the clashes in the conflict, which build a scene to eventually turn the values of a character's life, called a \"Story Event\". He further describes beats as \"distinctively different behaviors, . . . clear changes of action/reaction.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "427950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427950", "title": "Black Hawk Down (book)", "text": "Black Hawk Down (book)\n\nBlack Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War is a 1999 book by journalist Mark Bowden. It documents efforts by the Unified Task Force to capture Somali faction leader Mohamed Farrah Aidid in 1993, and the resulting battle in Mogadishu between United States forces and Aidid's militia. One of the key events is the downing of two United States UH-60 Black Hawk helicopters, from which the book derives its title, and the attempt to rescue their crews. United States forces included Army Rangers, 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment, 10th Mountain Division, Delta Force and Navy SEALs, with United Nations peacekeeping forces also involved.\n\nThe raid became the most intense close combat in U.S. military history since the Vietnam War. Although the particular mission to apprehend Aidid was officially codenamed Gothic Serpent, the media colloquially termed it the Battle of Mogadishu as well as the Battle of the Black Sea.\n\n\"Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War\" is based on a series of 29 articles written by journalist Mark Bowden for \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\". He did extensive research in US Army records, interviewed participants from both sides of the conflict, reviewed footage recorded by observation aircraft, and recordings of radio traffic. Before the book was published, Bowden's series had already begun to attract attention within the media. It consisted of a CD-ROM, an hour-long video, and an audiovisual series on The Inquirer's Web site.\n\nIn January 1991, militias overthrew the ruling Siad Barre regime. The United Nations later arranged a US-led intervention, with a mandate to engage in state building and encourage the militias to share power and begin to form a new government. President George H. W. Bush sent United States Marines into Somalia in December 1992 in an effort to secure transportation routes to deliver relief and food supplies, which had been disrupted by local militias. Uninterested in sharing power, Mohamed Farrah Aidid began to regard the UN mission as hostile and ambushed a peacekeeping convoy in June 1993. The UN commander, U.S. Admiral Jonathan Howe, declared Aidid an outlaw, and the faction leader's forces and supporters subsequently began targeting the officer. The hunt for Aidid resulted in faulty raids, high civilian casualties, and increasing civilian hostility against the UN efforts, especially their use of helicopters. After the battle, the hunt for Aidid was called off. The U.S. subsequently pulled out, with the UN following suit a few months later. In 1996, Aidid died from wounds sustained during a battle against a rival militia. A new interim central administration, the Transitional National Government, was eventually formed in 2000, a year after Bowden's book was published.\n\nBowden's narrative was generally praised, particularly his efforts at contextualizing the local and international politics and explaining how the peacekeeping mission devolved into armed conflict. A New York Times piece suggested that he conveys the battle as a gripping narrative, giving a minute-by-minute account of the United States campaign in Mogadishu, known as the Battle of the Black Sea. It added that Bowden rapidly shifts viewpoints after US ground forces enter the city, trying to extract a couple of Aidid leaders and then, when things go wrong, rescue US forces. Additionally, the piece remarked how Bowden simultaneously manages to capture the siege mentality felt by both civilians and the US soldiers, as well as the broad sentiment among many residents that the Rangers were to blame for the majority of the battle casualties.\n\nThe book was a finalist for the 1999 National Book Award for Nonfiction.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46746519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46746519", "title": "Béla Juhos", "text": "Béla Juhos\n\nBéla Juhos (November 22, 1901, Vienna – May 27, 1971, Vienna) was a Hungarian-Austrian philosopher and member of the Vienna Circle.\n\nJuhos was born November 22, 1901 in Vienna into a Hungarian family of low nobility (Hungarian citizenship until 1945). His father was a Hungarian tradesman and entrepreneur owning an iron wholesale in Vienna and Budapest. Juhos attended primary school in Budapest and spoke Hungarian as a child. In 1909 he moved to Vienna, where he learned German and completed \"Realgymnasium\" in 1920.\n\nJuhos studied mathematics, physics and philosophy at the University of Vienna. In 1926 he completed his studies with a dissertation under Moritz Schlick with the title \"To What Extent did Schopenhauer Do Justice to Kantian Ethics?\" (\"Inwieweit ist Schopenhauer der Kant’schen Ethik gerecht geworden?\"). From the beginning of the Schlick Circle in 1924 until its dissolution in 1936 (after the murder of Schlick) Juhos participated in the meetings of the Vienna Circle.\n\nDue to his economic independence Juhos could stay in Vienna as a private scholar during the Second World War – except for the period of his military service in 1942–1944.\n\nTogether with Victor Kraft Juhos was the only member of the Vienna Circle to remain in Vienna during the Second World War and to continue to work at the University of Vienna after the war. In 1948 he submitted his Habilitation thesis (\"venia legendi\") with the title \"Cognition and its Achievements\" (\"Die Erkenntnis und ihre Leistung\") under Victor Kraft and became \"Privatdozent\" (private lecturer). In 1955, Juhos was appointed associate professor, but he did not obtain a permanent position at the Faculty of Philosophy. For this reason, his influence in research and teaching remained limited.\n\nJuhos died on May 27, 1971 in Vienna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4027423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4027423", "title": "Center for Computer-Assisted Legal Instruction", "text": "Center for Computer-Assisted Legal Instruction\n\nThe Center for Computer-Assisted Legal Instruction, also known as CALI, is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit that does research and development in online legal education. CALI publishes over 1,000 interactive tutorials, free casebooks, and develops software for experiential learning. Over 90% of US law schools are members which provides students with unlimited and free access to these materials.\n\nCALI was incorporated in 1982 in the state of Minnesota by the University of Minnesota Law School and Harvard Law School. The cost of membership to CALI is US$7,500 per year for US law schools; free for legal-aid organizations, library schools, state and county law librarians; and US$250 per year for law firms, paralegal programs, undergraduate departments, government agencies, individuals, and other organizations.\n\nCALI Lessons are interactive tutorials written by law faculty and constantly kept up to date. They can be assigned as a study aid or to test your students' knowledge. The materials are rigorous, but short, taking 20-40 minutes to complete each lesson.\n\nCALI's eLangdell Press publishes free casebooks and book chapters authored by law faculty. All are available under a Creative Commons license so that faculty and students can use and remix the materials to suit their educational needs.\n\nClasscaster® is CALI's blogging and podcasting platform for law faculty who don't want commercial advertising on their course websites. Faculty who register at the CALI website can create a website for their courses, scholarship or podcast.\n\nLessonLink is a service that law faculty can use to create a unique URL for a CALI Lesson that allows the professor to track the students' scores and usuage down to the individual question. LessonLink lets faculty use CALI Lessons as formative assessment.\n\nQuizWright™ helps Faculty track what students are learning it lets professors write Multiple Choice, True/False, and Yes/No questions as formative assessments for their students that can be run inside or outside the classroom.\n\nCALI's CALIcon is a two-day conference where faculty, law librarians, tech staff and educational technologists gather to share ideas, experiences and expertise. The conference is almost always held at a newly constructed law school. www.cali.org/cali-conference\n\nWho Attends CALIcon?\nOur attendees are a mixture of law professors, law librarians and library directors, law school IT staff and law clinic faculty. We are also beginning to see attendees from the legal technology world. They are early-adopters, socially connected and highly influential in technology purchasing decisions. We expect 250- 350 attendees this year.\n\nWho Exhibits at CALIcon?\nCALIcon exhibitors have traditionally been those in the education software and legal research industries. However, with the increasing emphasis on creating “practice ready law students,\" we are also beginning to see companies from the legal practice world use CALIcon as a way to introduce themselves to the new market.\n\nInformative Sessions\nSessions are all 1 hour long, with 30 minute breaks between each to allow for networking, conversation, reflection and, of course, snacks! The sessions range from beginner to advanced and cover a wide range of topics, from Assessment to Video Technology and many topics in between. The sessions are conducted by real people sharing real experiences creating, using, designing and implementing technology in support and practice of legal education. \n\nCALI first hosted The Conference for Law School Computing in 1991 (then known as the Conference for Law School Computing Professionals) at Chicago-Kent. From 1991 to 1994 the conference was hosted at Chicago-Kent, and since 1995 the conference has been hosted on-site by various CALI member law schools.\n\nThe CALI Excellence for the Future Award® is given to the top scoring student in each course at a law school as determined by the professor. CALI Award winners receive a certificate suitable for framing and a permanent URL/Virtual Award that students can tag to resumes, CVs, biographies and social media accounts. \n\nA2j Author® is a cloud based software tool that delivers greater access to justice for self-represented litigants. A2J Author can be used as an experiential learning tool in law school courses to expose students to expert systems and document automation. Free training and technical support for your courses and students are available.\n\n"}
{"id": "25587848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25587848", "title": "Centro de Estudios Políticos y Constitucionales", "text": "Centro de Estudios Políticos y Constitucionales\n\nThe Centro de Estudios Políticos y Constitucionales (CEPC), known during the Francoist period as the \"Instituto de Estudios Políticos\", is an autonomous agency associated with the Ministry for the Presidency, Spain. Its mission is to analyze the international legal and sociopolitical situation, giving special attention to those issues that concern Spanish law institutions and how they relate to each other internationally and also in Europe. The organization is headquartered at the Palacio de Godoy, an historical building located at the Plaza Marina Española.\n\nAt present, the CEPC with the Universidad Internacional Menéndez Pelayo, offer an official master adjusted to the high standards of (EEES), this postgraduate study has a great national and international reputation, with high academic qualities and high research orientation, supported by professors with great impact in the Spanish-speaking world, in addition, by the scientific production of its magazines, several indexed in Scopus and others notorious repositories.\n\nThis postgraduate degree, has its bases in the Diploma in Political and Constitutional Studies, a title that today has prestige in academic, legal and political for all Ibero-America. Many of its graduates currently occupy prominent positions in supreme constitutional courts, parliamentary assemblies, renowned universities and public administrations of the Ibero-American community (taken from: http://www.cepc.gob.es/master)\n\nThe editorial of the Center for Political and Constitutional Studies is among the 25 best publishers of scientific literature in Spain, according to studies carried out by the EC3 Group of the University of Granada, which produces the Publishers Scholar Metrics index (PSM) Of the CSIC Academic Book (ILIA), produced by the Scholarly Publishers Indicators (SPI). Both indexes measure the quality of Spanish publishers (Taken from: http://www.cepc.gob.es/publicaciones/libros\n\nAdolfo Suárez, Spain's first democratically elected Prime Minister, entrusted Fernando Prieto, a well-known political scientist, with transforming the old \"Instituto de Estudios Políticos\" into a center for political analysis, that would help Spain in its transition to democracy. Prieto became the CEPC's first director.\n\nDuring the eighties and nineties, the CEPC was under the direction of professors Elías Díaz and Francisco Laporta, followed by the historian Carmen Iglesias. In May 2004, after the Socialist Party's electoral victory, José Álvarez Junco was named General Director. At that time, Junco held the chair of the \"History of Ideas\" in the faculty of \"Political and Social Movements\" at the Complutense University of Madrid.\n\nOn 19 May 2008, the position of General Director passed to Paloma Biglino Campos, Doctor of Political Science, Sociology and Law; a former Dean of the faculty of law at the University of Valladolid.\n\nOn 1 February 2012, the directorship went to Benigno Pendás García, a professor of Political Science at CEU San Pablo University and, since 1981, a lawyer for the Cortes.\n\nThe CEPC publishes electronic versions of the following Spanish academic journals:\n\nThey also maintain an electronic archive of the following journals:\n\n"}
{"id": "23148804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23148804", "title": "Civic political culture", "text": "Civic political culture\n\nA civic culture or civic political culture is a political culture characterized by \"acceptance of the authority of the state\" and \"a belief in participation in civic duties\". The term was first used in Gabriel Almond and Sidney Verba's book, \"The Civic Culture\". Civic political culture is a mixture of other political cultures namely parochial, subject and participant political cultures. Almond and Verba characterised Britain as having a civic political culture. In \"Is Britain Still a Civic Culture?\" Patrick Seyd and Paul Whiteley discuss the extent to which Britain can still be regarded as having a civic political culture. The term civic culture is used to identify the political culture characteristics that explain the stability of a democratic society's political structure.\n\nAlmond and Verba state that the following are characteristics of a civic culture:\nIt is worth noting that the proper combination of the various types of political culture will provide a culture that has a positive implication for the growth of democracy.\n\nPateman, C. (1980). The civic culture: A philosophic critique. In Almond, G. & Verba, S., editors. The civic culture revisited. (1989). Newbury Park, CA: Sage Publications.\n"}
{"id": "56510204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56510204", "title": "Conservation and restoration of Pompeian frescoes", "text": "Conservation and restoration of Pompeian frescoes\n\nThe conservation and restoration of Pompeian frescoes describes the activities, methods, and techniques that have historically and are currently being used to care for the preserved remains of the frescoes from the archeological site of Pompeii, Italy. The ancient city of Pompeii is famously known for its demise in A.D. 79 after the fatal eruption of Mount Vesuvius wiped out the population and buried the city beneath layers of compact lava material. In 1738, King Charles III or Charles of Bourbon, began explorations in Portici, Resina, Castellammare di Stabia, a Civita, where it was believed that the ancient cities of Pompeii, Stabiae, and Herculaneum were buried beneath. The first phase of the excavations at Pompeii started in 1748, which lead to the first conservation and restoration efforts of the frescoes since their burial, and in 1764, open-air excavations began at Pompeii. Pompeii has a long history of excavation and restoration that began without a strong foundation or strategy. After centuries of cronyism, recurring financial shortages, and on-again-off-again restoration, the city's frescoes and structures were left in poor condition. In 1997, Pompeii was added to the UNESCO List of World Heritage Sites.\n\nThe Villa of the Mysteries is one of the best preserved homes in Pompeii.\n\nThe Villa of P. Fannius Synistor at Boscoreale was excavated in 1900 and many of the frescoes were stripped from the walls and auctioned off. One of the more notable conservation and restoration projects has taken place at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, NY, where they have restored and installed the paintings (2002-2007) from the Villa’s cubiculum, or bedroom, for the new Greek and Roman Galleries.\nThe excavation of the House of the Vettii from 1894-1895 by Giuseppe Fiorelli led to the policy of completely restoring and reconstructing (select) houses and leaving all finds \"in situ\" as far as possible. The House of the Vettii, located in Regio VI of Pompeii, suffered significant damage and loss of its fourth style artwork during bombings in WWII.\n\nThe Praedia of Julia Felix, located in Regio II of Pompeii, was one of the first houses to be thoroughly explored and is the site where the first complete mural of the tablinum was detached in 1755, led by sculptor Joseph Canart.\n\nThe pigments that were primarily used in the frescoes at Pompeii were mostly naturally occurring earth pigments such as:\n\nPompeian frescoes were executed in the buon fresco (true fresco) technique, in which the pigments were painted onto a freshly applied, damp/wet plaster ground. The plaster contains liquid lime (calcium hydroxide). In the process of drying, the liquid lime in the plaster combines with the paints and turns into carbonate of lime, which is chemically equivalent to limestone or marble. Upon drying and setting, the pigments permanently fuse to the plaster to form a solid, durable painting.\n\nAfter the Irpinia earthquake in 1980 caused further weakening of Pompeii’s crumbling walls, systematic initiatives were put into place to evaluate the damage. The excavation team took documentary photographs, conducted a systematic survey, and recorded the qualitative data through a computer processing system. From these findings, Mariette de Vos calculated that the number of existing paintings made up only ten percent of what was originally found in earlier excavations, while another ten percent was only known through drawings and photos. For the first time, the team was able to show that Pompeii had indeed been over-excavated, and provide a comprehensive view of how, where, and to what extent conservation and restoration was needed.\n\nWith innovative advances in technology, conservationists and archaeologists have now been able to reconstruct navigable 3-D models of the ancient Pompeian buildings and the rooms that held the frescoes. Through virtual models, and the introduction of digital architectural line drawings, missing parts of the frescoes have been virtually filled in. The use of archival photographs of the frescoes from past excavations and reconstructions have also aided in the digital reconstruction of the paintings, and have allowed for their digital preservation for the future.\n\nLasers, ultrasound and thermal imagery have been used to analyze the frescoes and their level of deterioration. Non-invasive measurements have been used to research and measure the level of fading, discoloration, and changes in chemical composition that have taken place in the original pigments of the frescoes, such as: VIS (Visible Light) spectroscopy with CIE L*a*b* measurements and EDXRF (Energy-Dispersive X-Ray Fluorescence) analyses; OM (Optical Microscopy) of cross sections and paint layers; PLM (Polarized Light Microscopy) of powder samples; FTIR/ATR (Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy/Attenuated Total Reflectance); and SEM-EDS (Scanning Electron Microscope-Energy Dispersive Spectrometry).\n\nExtensive visitor observations and movement mapping have also been conducted in order to analyze how tourism impacts the safety of the frescoes.\n\nDuring the beginning of the excavation of Pompeii, inexperienced and untrained excavators cut out pieces of fresco they found without the use of linen and other facing materials to protect the plaster, resulting in many frescoes being broken into multiple fragments. Wall painting scenes that were considered worthy of detachment were brought to the Palazzo degli Studi in Naples, today known as the Museo Archeologico Nazionale, after 1827.\nThe frescoes have been affected by rain and groundwater, which have caused water damage and rising damp, resulting in deteriorating and collapsing walls. Frescoes are part of an open physical system in which they are in contact with contiguous structures—such as walls, roofs, and the ground—that are dynamically involved in series of chemical and physical events, such as the capillary movement and rise of moisture. Catastrophic physical forces such as earthquakes—which have been causing structural damage to the buildings and cracks in the walls since A.D. 62 —and the eruption of Mount Vesuvius, have contributed to the deterioration of the frescoes. The frescoes of Pompeii were both damaged by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius from heat and falling debris, which scratched and loosened the plaster and paint, and simultaneously preserved by the volcanic ash until their discovery. In addition, the frost of 1816 entirely destroyed murals in the Amphitheatre in the Villa of Cicero at the Praedia of Julia Felix.\n\nRestoration efforts in the late eighteenth century resulted in poorly supported walls and masonry that have proven insufficient for the protection of the wall paintings and have contributed to their rapid degradation. Plaster was fixed with heavy metal clamps, which have gradually come away and left holes and other damage, and the edges of the paintings were smeared with ordinary mortar that has yet to be replaced.\n\nMass tourism that has taken place at Pompeii is another contributing factor to the deterioration of the frescoes. Wear and breakage have occurred due to people leaning on and touching the frescoes, as well as abrasions from bags and other objects rubbing against the frescoes in crowded areas. Vandals have also defaced the frescoes with graffiti. In addition, the frescoes at Pompeii have deteriorated due to poor management, decreased internal maintenance, and a lack of sustainable methods for restoration and conservation.\n\nThe constituent materials of wall paintings have a high and open porosity. Because of this, they are easily accessible to liquids and gases including: salt solutions, atmospheric pollutants, water vapor, solutions of materials used for conservation, etc. Build-up from pollutants and contaminants such as waxes and gasoline—which were used in previous restoration attempts as cleaning agents—varnishes, and dust have caused the pigments in the frescoes to darken and discolor, and the figures to blur over time.\n\nMany of the frescoes were covered with varnish to protect them at their creation, in which the fragments were first washed with water and then covered with gum arabic thinned with aqua regia. However, this practice was later stopped once it was discovered that it bleached and damaged the pigments, though most of the fragments at the Museo Archeologico Nazionale are still covered in the gluey film.\n\nExperiments with hot wax were conducted by the ancient Pompeian painters. Painters either prepared the surfaces with melted wax or painted with pigments combined with wax that would then be burned into the plaster, which made them sturdy and durable. This same technique was tried in order to restore the frescoes in the late eighteenth century. While at first this made the paintings more lustrous and clear, years of heat and humidity and the restriction of normal evaporation for the paintings \"in situ\" turned the wax white and deteriorated the painted surfaces. In the Museo Archeologico Nazionale, though they didn’t suffer from the same climatological effects, they still became white/crusty.\n\nThe pigments used in the frescoes are of a very fragile nature and have faded as a result of exposure to UV rays, oxygen, and the environment/elements—especially those left \"in situ\". Disintegration of plaster, and lifting and detachment of the paint has also been caused by the crystallization of soluble salts, such as sodium nitrate, in the surface layers of the frescoes as a result of fluctuating temperatures and humidity, and exposure to atmospheric pollutants.\nInvasive vegetation such as roots, moss, weeds, and grass have sprouted from the cracks in the eroded floors and walls of the rooms where the frescoes are located.\n\nConservators and leadership are working to better understand the current situation of the Pompeian frescoes and avoid further damage and deterioration. The Soprintendenza Speciale per i Beni Archeologici di Napoli e Pompei is working on a major reorganization and implementation of new policies and maintenance plans for the entire site of Pompeii.\n\nAttention has been given to non-intrusive and reversible reinforcement of the walls, structures and roofs of the buildings that house the frescoes. Recommendations have been made for the reconstruction of the building infrastructures using safe and sturdy materials, and light, modern supports, unlike the previous heavy materials placed in the walls, which caused significant damage. Recommendations have also been made for roof reinforcement structures and other conservation interventions that block ventilation and rain infiltration, and allow for humidity regulation to prevent the plaster of the frescoes from peeling off the walls. Plans for engineering new drainage and sewer systems are also being made.\n\nExcavations of Pompeii have been significantly reduced, and barricades, fences, and locked doors have been placed to keep visitors out of vulnerable areas and buildings. Select \"insulae\" are also being considered for re-burial in order to protect them from further vegetal growth, weather conditions, earthquake damage, and volcanic eruptions.\n\nAs an open, reactive system, frescoes require more surveillance after conservation The use of high-tech monitoring tools is also being put into place. An agreement was made with Italian technology and defense company, Finmeccanica, for their donation of services concerning: protection of the artistic heritage from deterioration, pollution, hydrogeological and seismic risks; efficiency, sustainability and safety of the spaces dedicated to culture; and accessibility and fruition of the artistic heritage.\n\nThe project includes an interferometric monitoring service that provides data on the shifts/movements of the grounds and buildings in Pompeii, and comes equipped with radar sensors that shoot daytime and nighttime pictures. Finmeccanica has also provided a ground-based remote sensing service that employs hyper-spectral imaging devices for the acquisition of images and the spectral signatures of the various materials and chemical components present in areas identified as critical.\n\nEfforts are being made to stabilize the frescoes' chemical and biological degradation and perform long-lasting restoration. In a holistic approach to conservation, the causes of decay are being addressed while increasing the site’s ability to prevent or slow future decay. Routine cleaning of all previously restored works and constant upkeep practices are being put into place.\n\nConservators and restorers are meticulously stripping away layers of paraffin, dirt, and varnish with cotton swabs that restorers applied between the 1930s and 1970s to prevent the paints from cracking and flaking. Laser tools are being used to melt away wax and gasoline buildup while leaving the paint untouched. Other conservation treatments include the consolidation of brittle plaster and paint layers, the removal of inadequate inpainting of losses, and improving old fills that were used with cement.\n\nThe Great Pompeii Project (GPP) is a €105 million project funded by the EU and Italian Government that began in 2012. The project proposes plans for emergency work to begin for the conservation, maintenance and restoration of Pompeii. The project's areas of intervention include: \n\n"}
{"id": "51246211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51246211", "title": "CourtWeb", "text": "CourtWeb\n\nIn order to facilitate access to written legal opinions, some U.S. court systems provide them on CourtWeb, which, unlike PACER, does not require registration.\n\nAs of August 2016, CourtWeb has records from only 30 courts:\n\n"}
{"id": "38259511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38259511", "title": "Craposyncrasies", "text": "Craposyncrasies\n\nCraposyncrasies or Doozakhrafat is a book by Sorush Pakzad of satirical pieces in Persian, which were posted on his personal blog before publication. The book includes 107 stories about gods, prophets, and angels and was published in February 2012 by H&S Media. The publisher included the book among its top-sellers in 2014.\n\nPakzad’s critical approach towards the religious beliefs in the contemporary practices of Islam caught the attention of many critics. In his foreword to the book, Ebrahim Nabavi, one of the leading Iranian satirists, contends “I have never seen or heard of a book like Doozakhrafat… it is unique, pleasant, and deep.” In an article published in openDemocracy, Nabavi describes Doozakhrafat as \"a unique magnum opus\" for its \"elegance, charm, and wonder\" and praises the author as someone \"who knows his job, has read much, is well-informed, and has studied theology and philosophy before fooling around with God.\" \nNabavi encourages his readers to read the book before they die: “I have read many metaphysical and religious texts and I know the literature quite well. I have even tried to write along the path myself. But what Sorush Pakzad has done is way deeper… It has been a while since I have felt so inspired by reading a book. Elsewhere, Nabavi has described Sorush Pakzad as \"an unparalleled talent in satire. His book, 'Doozakhrafat,' is full of original jokes with the universe, God, humans, the creation, heaven, and hell. This genre of satire [in Persian literature] has often lacked elegance and grace.\".\nIn an article published by Il Libraio, Doozakhrafat has been praised for its success in introducing a creative level of religious satire, without showing hostility in its language.\n\nMahmud Farjami, author, journalist, and researcher on Iranian comedy calls \"Doozakhrafat\" “an indisputable masterpiece in Persian parody.” Pakzad, Farjami believes, “is not only familiar with religious texts, fictions, and symbolism, but usually draws a parallel style to develop his story… It is difficult to find another book that contains so many original subjects that have been polished so masterfully.” \nYaser Mirdamadi, an Iranian scholar of analytic philosophy of religion and epistemology of Islam, in his interview about freedom of expression in ridiculing religion refers to \"Doozakhrafat\" as a book that satirizes religious beliefs without humiliation and insult:\n“[The book] is a successful example of critical religious comedy that, although radical, is not humiliating or offensive. The critical aspect forces you to think while the comic aspect puts a smile on your face. The basis of all satirical pieces on religion in this book is to creatively emphasize this fact that the realm of gods, as depicted in religious practices, is humanly and affected by anthropomorphic perceptions of the divine… One might argue that this approach although morally justifiable, is religiously wrong. It seems that Sorush Pakzad’s critical satire is not only morally inoffensive but also insightful from a religious point of view.”\n\nRoya Sadr, Iran’s leading female satirist and researcher on Persian satire, in her review of the book, points out some of its literary qualities: “The forms are diverse, unbelievably diverse. The parodies are masterful; moreover, their innovative approach makes them more enjoyable. The writing is minimalistic and does not bore the reader with unnecessary information. Every detail is professionally and artistically designed in its correct position. Even the subtitles are obsessively and thoughtfully picked. Most of the stories enjoy a precise tone, a theatrical atmosphere, believable dialogues, and a surprise element.\"\n\n“The form and language of the book,” she concludes, “confirms that the author knows what he is doing and has a well crafted view on the topic… All these qualities mixed with the author’s thorough knowledge of the wide range of subjects touched in the book make \"Doozakhrafat\" a rich and insightful piece.”\n\nUsing \"Doozakhrafat\" to open a discussion on the little touched topic of the relationship between satire and religion in Iran, Roya Sadr argues, “[the book] aims to challenge the masses’ superstitious perception of the divine in order to… show how anthropomorphic the images of God and the divine is in religious practices… Doozakhrafat enjoys a strong, deep, and penetrating perspective. I do not know the author, but Sorush Pakzad shows from this book that he is a unique and unmatched satirist [among his Persian peers].”\n\nIn a Facebook post, Mehdi Khalaji, a scholar of Islamic studies, admires \"Doozakhrafat\"’s “powerful humor.” “I started reading the book this evening,” writes Khalaji, “it’s a powerful satirical work that applies humor to religious material. Returning the jokes that God plays on us, the book makes fun of God and his kingdom. Well, what goes around comes around!”\n"}
{"id": "1862452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1862452", "title": "Daniel Pinchbeck", "text": "Daniel Pinchbeck\n\nDaniel Pinchbeck (born 15 June 1966) is an American author living in New York's East Village. He is the author of \"\" (Broadway Books, 2002), \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\" (Tarcher/Penguin, 2006), and \"Notes from the Edge Times\" (Tarcher/Penguin, 2010). He is a co-founder of the web magazine, \"Reality Sandwich\", and \"Evolver.net\", and edited the publishing imprint, \"Evolver Editions\", with North Atlantic Books. He was featured in the 2010 documentary, \"2012: Time for Change\", directed by Joao Amorim and produced by Mangusta Films. He is the founder of the think tank, \"Center for Planetary Culture\", which produced the \"Regenerative Society Wiki\".\n\nPinchbeck has deep personal roots in the New York counterculture of the 1950s and 1960s. His father, Peter Pinchbeck, was an abstract painter, and his mother, the writer Joyce Johnson, was a member of the Beat Generation and dated Jack Kerouac as \"On the Road\" hit the bestseller lists in 1957 (chronicled in Johnson's bestselling book, \"Minor Characters: A Beat Memoir\").\nHis family history is traced back to Christopher Pinchbeck, a London clockmaker who invented the family's eponymous alloy, a cheap substitute for gold.\n\nPinchbeck was a founder of the 1990s literary magazine \"Open City\" with fellow writers Thomas Beller and Robert Bingham. He has written for many publications, including \"Esquire\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", \"The Village Voice\", and \"Rolling Stone\". In 1994 he was chosen by \"The New York Times Magazine\" as one of \"Thirty Under Thirty\" destined to change our culture through his work with \"Open City\". He has been a regular columnist for a number of magazines, including \"Dazed & Confused\".\n\nIn \"Breaking Open the Head\", Pinchbeck explored shamanism via ceremonies with tribal groups such as the Bwiti of Gabon, who eat iboga, and the Secoya people in the Ecuadorean Amazon, who take the psychedelic tryptamine brew ayahuasca in their ceremonies. He also attended the Burning Man festival in Nevada, and looked at use of psychedelic substances in a de-sacralized modern context. Philosophically influenced by the work of anthroposophist Rudolf Steiner, through his direct experience and research Pinchbeck developed the hypothesis that shamanic and mystical views of reality have validity, and that the modern world had forfeited an understanding of intuitive aspects of being in its pursuit of rational materialism.\n\nDrawing heavily, and somewhat controversially, from material shared on the Breaking Open the Head forums, Pinchbeck's second volume, \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\", chronicles Mayan and Hopi prophecies, and follows Pinchbeck's travels and travails as he responds to leads, both physical and intellectual, he receives via this forum. Examining the nature of prophecy, Pinchbeck investigates the New Age hypothesis of Terence McKenna that humanity is experiencing an accelerated process of global consciousness transformation, leading to a new understanding of time and space during this period. The book details the psi or extra-sensory perception research of Dean Radin, the theories of Terence McKenna, the phenomena of crop circles, and a visit to calendar reform advocate José Argüelles. Pinchbeck concludes with an account of receiving a transmission of prophetic material by the Mesoamerican deity Quetzalcoatl. This claim was enough to get the book dropped by its planned publisher, delaying its release for the greater part of a year. While acknowledging the validity of such an experience is unknown, Pinchbeck describes how a voice identifying itself as Quetzalcoatl began speaking to him during a 2004 trip to the Amazon in Brazil. At the time, he was in the Amazon, participating in ceremonies of the Santo Daime, a Brazilian religion that uses ayahuasca as its sacrament. Through its references to 2012 and the Maya calendar in the context of New Age beliefs, Pinchbeck's book has contributed to Mayanism.\n\nIn May 2007, Pinchbeck launched \"Reality Sandwich\". He is the executive producer of Postmodern Times, a series of web videos presented on the iClips Network, and co-founder of Evolver.net, an online social network. His life and work are featured in the documentary \"2012: Time for Change\", featuring interviews with Sting, David Lynch, Barbara Marx Hubbard, and others.\n\nIn August 2013, Pinchbeck became the host of \"Mind Shift\", a new talk show, filmed in New York City, produced by Gaiam TV.\n\nPinchbeck's \"How Soon Is Now?\" (2017) explores the idea that the ecological crisis is a rite of passage or initiation for humanity collectively, forcing us to reach the next level of our consciousness as a species. The book outlines the changes to our technical infrastructure - agriculture, energy, industry - and our social, political, and economic system that Pinchbeck believes necessary to avoid the worst consequences of global warming and species extinction.\n\nOn October 22, 2017, Pinchbeck published a lengthy essay on Facebook that responded to accusations that he is a sexual predator that emerged through the #metoo movement. Pinchbeck conceded to many of the things he was accused of and sought to explain them in terms of his childhood traumas.\n\nIn a 1973 article about the \"Wacky Packs\" parodies of consumer packaging, seven-year-old Pinchbeck told a reporter for \"New York Magazine\", \"I think they're bringing out the truth about foods.\"\n\nOn 14 December 2006, Pinchbeck appeared on the television program \"The Colbert Report\" to discuss his book, \"2012: The Return of Quetzalcoatl\".\n\nPinchbeck was featured in the 2006 video \"Entheogen: Awakening the Divine Within\", a documentary about rediscovering an enchanted cosmos in the modern world.\n\nPinchbeck was also featured in the 2008 video \"2012: Science or Superstition\", a documentary describing how much of what we are hearing is science and how much is superstition.\n\nHe interviewed Alejandro Jodorowsky for the German/French art television network Arte in a very personal discussion, spending a night together in France, continuing the interview in different locations like in a park and in a hotel.\n\nPinchbeck appears in the documentary film \"\", directed by João G. Amorim, which was released in October 2010.\nHe also appeared in the documentary film \"Electronic Awakening\", directed by AC Johner, released in 2011.\n\nPinchbeck appeared on \"The Joe Rogan Experience\" podcast, recorded on 8 September 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58496954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58496954", "title": "David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies", "text": "David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies\n\nThe David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies was founded in 1994 and is based at Harvard University. It was endowed by David Rockefeller.\n\nIt exists to \"increase knowledge of the cultures, economies, histories, environment and contemporary affairs of Latin America; to foster cooperation and understanding among the peoples of the Americas; and to contribute to democracy, social progress and sustainable development throughout the hemisphere.\"\n\nThe center publishes a book series, some of the titles in which are:\n"}
{"id": "12131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12131", "title": "Demographics of Grenada", "text": "Demographics of Grenada\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Grenada, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nAccording to the 2011 census Grenada has 105,539 inhabitants. The estimated population of is ().\n\nThe fertility rate in Grenada was 2.21 in 2013.\n\nThe vast majority of the population of Grenada are of African descent (89.4% at the 2001 census). There is also a significant mixed population (8.2%), along with a small European origin minority (0.4%), East Indians (1.6%), and there are small numbers of Lebanese/Syrians (0.04%) and Chinese (0.02%).\n\nGrenada has a small population of pre-Columbian native Caribs. According to the 2001 census there are only 125 Caribs remaining (0.12% of the total population).\n\nApart from a 114-year period of French occupancy (1649-1763) English has been the country's official language. However, over time the minority of the population use a colloquial spoken language considered to be either English-based creole languages or (Grenadian Creole English) and which is said reflects the African, European and Indian heritage of the nation. \n\nThe Grenadian creoles originally influenced by French, now contain elements from a variety of Grenadian Creole and a little of the African languages. Grenadian Creole French is mainly spoken in smaller rural areas, but today it can only be heard in a few small pockets of the society. Grenadian Creole French is mainly known as \"Patois\" and may have similarities to the Saint Lucian Creole French.\n\nIt is believed that the one-time native or indigenous languages were Iñeri and Karina.\n\nHistorically the religious makeup of the islands of Grenada covers the period from first European occupation in the 17th century. This has always been predominantly Christian and largely Roman Catholic (due to the first occupants being French) and from the 1891 census we get a snapshot of the population and its religious proclivities - over half were Roman Catholic (55%), a third were Church of England (36%), others listed were Wesleyan (6%) and Presbyterian (0.88%).\n\nMore recently, according to the 2001 census, 89.1% percent of the population of Grenada is considered Christian, 1.5% is non-Christian and 3.6% has no religion or stated \"other\" (5.7%).\n\nRoughly one half of Christians are Roman Catholics (44.6% of the total population), a reflection of early French influence on the island, and one half are Protestant. Anglicanism constitutes the largest Protestant group, with 11.5% of the population. Pentecostals are the second largest group (11.3%), followed by Seventh-day Adventists (10.5% of the population). Other Christians include Baptists (2.9%), Church of God (2.6%), Methodists (1.8%), Evangelicals (1.6%) Jehovah's Witnesses (1.1%), and Brethren Christian (0.5%).\n\nThe number of non-Christians is small. These religious groups include the Rastafarian Movement (1.1% of the population), Hinduism (0.2%) and Muslims (0.3%).\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from The World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated \n\n"}
{"id": "33439947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33439947", "title": "French Cultural Studies", "text": "French Cultural Studies\n\nFrench Cultural Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers in the field of Cultural Studies. The journal's Editor is Nicholas Hewitt (University of Nottingham). It has been in publication since 1990 and is currently published by SAGE Publications.\n\n\"French Cultural Studies\" is a journal which seeks to address key changes that have affected aspects of the study of French culture, language and society in the education system. It seeks to provide a forum for a range of work currently being done on French culture. The journal also includes work on the study of literature, however the main focus of the journal of on areas such as cinema, television, media and the press, the visual arts, popular culture, and cultural and intellectual debate.\n\n\"French Cultural Studies\" is abstracted and indexed in, among other databases: Academic Search Premier, the British Humanities Index, SCOPUS, and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2010 impact factor is 0.128, ranking it 9th out of 10 journals in the category ‘Cultural Studies’.\n"}
{"id": "6884616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6884616", "title": "Gender-neutral language", "text": "Gender-neutral language\n\nGender-neutral language or gender-inclusive language is language that avoids bias towards a particular sex or social gender. In English, this includes use of nouns that are not gender-specific to refer to roles or professions, as well as avoidance of the pronouns \"he\", \"him\" and \"his\" to refer to people of unknown or indeterminate gender. For example, the words \"policeman\" and \"stewardess\" are gender-specific job titles; the corresponding gender-neutral terms are \"police officer\" and \"flight attendant\". Other gender-specific terms, such as \"actor\" and \"actress\", may be replaced by the originally male term; for example, \"actor\" used regardless of gender. Some terms, such as \"chairman\", that contain the component \"-man\" but have traditionally been used to refer to persons regardless of sex are now seen by some as gender-specific. When the gender of the person referred to is unknown or indeterminate, the third-person pronoun \"he\" may be avoided by using gender-neutral alternatives – possibilities in English include singular \"they\", \"he or she\", or \"s/he\".\n\nHistorically, the use of masculine pronouns in place of generic was regarded as non-sexist, but various forms of gender-neutral language became a common feature in written and spoken versions of many languages in the late twentieth century. Feminists argue that previously the practice of assigning masculine gender to generic antecedents stemmed from language reflecting \"the prejudices of the society in which it evolved, and English evolved through most of its history in a male-centered, patriarchal society.\" During the 1970s, feminists Casey Miller and Kate Swift created a manual, \"The Handbook of Nonsexist Writing\", on gender neutral language that was set to reform the existing sexist language that was said to exclude and dehumanize women. In the 1980s, many feminist efforts were made to reform the androcentric language. It has become common in some academic and governmental settings to rely on gender-neutral language to convey inclusion of all sexes or genders (gender-inclusive language). \n\nVarious languages employ different means to achieve gender neutrality:\n\nOther particular issues are also discussed:\n\nThere are different approaches in forming a \"gender-neutral language\":\n\nExamples of gender indication in occupational titles:\n\n"}
{"id": "901142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=901142", "title": "Global Oceanographic Data Archaeology and Rescue Project", "text": "Global Oceanographic Data Archaeology and Rescue Project\n\nThe Global Oceanographic Data Archaeology and Rescue Project, or GODAR Project was established to increase the volume of historical oceanographic data available to climate change and other researchers. The project attempts to locate ocean profile and plankton data sets not yet in digital form, digitizes these data, and ensures their submission to national data centers and the World Data Center system (WDC). In addition, data on electronic media that are at risk of loss due to media degradation are also candidates for rescue.\n\nIn December 1992, the National Oceanographic Data Center (NODC) and WDC presented an initial proposal for the GODAR Project at the 14th Session of the Committee on International Oceanographic Data and Information Exchange (IODE) where it was approved. The proposal was subsequently endorsed by the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC)--the parent body of the IODE--at the 17th IOC Assembly held in March 1993. At that time, it was further agreed that the WDC for Oceanography in Silver Spring, Maryland, would lead this project.\n\nAll profile and plankton data acquired as part of the GODAR project were included in World Ocean Database 2001 (WOD01), which was released in March 2002. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1365949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1365949", "title": "Gold Museum, Bogotá", "text": "Gold Museum, Bogotá\n\nThe Museum of Gold () is a museum located in Bogotá, Colombia. It is one of the most visited touristic highlights in the country. The museum receives around 500,000 tourists per year.\n\nThe museum displays a selection of pre-Columbian gold and other metal alloys, such as \"Tumbaga\", and contains the largest collection of gold artifacts in the world in its exhibition rooms on the second and third floors. Together with pottery, stone, shell, wood and textile objects, these items, made of a– to indigenous cultures – sacred metal, testify to the life and thought of the different societies which lived in present-day Colombia before the Spanish conquest of the Americas.\n\nIn 1934, the Bank of the Republic began helping to protect the archaeological patrimony of Colombia. The object known as Poporo Quimbaya was the first one in a collection. It has been on exhibition for 70 years. The Museum is today administered by Banrepcultural.\n\nThe museum houses the famous Muisca golden raft found in Pasca in 1969, that represents the ceremony of the new \"zipa\" (ruler) of Bacatá, the basis for the \"El Dorado\" myth. The heir to the chieftaincy assumed power with a great offering to the gods. In this representation he is seen standing at the centre of a raft, surrounded by the principal chieftains, all of them adorned with gold and feathers.\n\nAfter a decade of work, the museum was expanded and renovated in October 2008. With the renovation, the museum organized the permanent exhibition in five rooms with archaeological objects and an interactive room. It also added an auditorium, some temporary exhibitions rooms, a cafe, a restaurant, and a souvenir store.\n\nThe museum has a collection of 55,000 pieces, 6,000 of which are on display in their expanded building. There are bilingual descriptions of almost all exhibits. On the first floor houses the museum's main entrance, a shop, and a restaurant.\n\nExhibitions begin on the second floor. The main room is called \"People and Gold in pre-Hispanic Colombia\". In glass vitrines display goldsmiths' work from the different cultures which inhabited Colombia before the Spanish colonists arrived. The permanent exhibition is divided into different halls for every culture: Calima, Quimbaya, Muisca, Zenú, Tierradentro, San Agustín, Tolima, Tairona, and Urabá, and a special room called \"After Columbus\" (\"Después de Colón\").\n\nThe exposition continues on the third floor, with \"The Flying Chamanic\" and \"The Offering.\" The first shows the process of a shamanic ceremony with its different gold pieces, the second is divided into three parts: the \"Offering Room\", the \"Offering Boat\", and the \"Lake\".\n\nAt the end of the exposition, there is a \"Profunditation Room\" with artistic videos about the most important gold pieces of the museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21747778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21747778", "title": "Gordium", "text": "Gordium\n\nGordium (, \"Górdion\"; or ) was the capital city of ancient Phrygia. It was located at the site of modern Yassıhüyük, about 70–80 km southwest of Ankara (capital of Turkey), in the immediate vicinity of Polatlı district. The site was excavated by Gustav Körte and Alfred Körte in 1900 and then by the University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, under the direction of Rodney S. Young, between 1950 and 1973. Excavations have continued at the site under the auspices of the University of Pennsylvania Museum with an international team.\n\nGordium lies where the ancient road between Lydia and Assyria/Babylonia crossed the Sangarius river.\n\nIn the 12th century BCE, Gordium was settled by Brygians who had migrated from southeastern Europe. During the 9th and 8th centuries BCE, the city grew into the capital of a kingdom that controlled much of Asia Minor west of the river Halys. The kings of Phrygia built large tombs near Gordium called tumuli, which consist of artificial mounds constructed over burial chambers. There are about one hundred of them, covering both cremations and inhumations. In the 8th century, the lower city and the area to the north of the citadel was surrounded by a circuit wall with regularly spaced towers.\n\nThe most famous king of Phrygia was the quasi-legendary Midas. Contemporary Assyrian sources dating between c. 718 and 709 BCE call him \"Mit-ta-a\". According to the Greek historian Herodotus, King Midas was the first foreigner to make an offering at the sanctuary of Apollo at Delphi, dedicating the throne from which he gave judgment. During his reign, according to Strabo, the nomadic Cimmerians invaded Asia Minor, and in 710/709 BCE, Midas was forced to ask for help from the Assyrian king Sargon II. In Strabo's account, King Midas committed suicide by drinking bull's blood when the Cimmerians overran the city.\n\nTumulus MM (for \"Midas Mound\"), the Great Tumulus, is the largest burial mound at Gordium, standing over 50 meters high today, with a diameter of about 300 meters. The tumulus was excavated in 1957 by Young's team, revealing the remains of the royal occupant, resting on purple and golden textiles in an open log coffin, surrounded by a vast array of magnificent objects. The burial goods included pottery and bronze vessels containing organic residues, bronze fibulae (ancient safety pins), leather belts with bronze attachments, and an extraordinary collection of carved and inlaid wooden furniture, exceptional for its state of preservation. The Tumulus MM funeral ceremony has been reconstructed, and scientists have determined that the guests at the banquet ate lamb or goat stew and drank a mixed fermented beverage. It is now generally assumed to be the tomb of Midas' father Gordias, and was probably the first monumental project of Midas after his accession.\n\nThere is ample evidence of widespread burning of the city mound of Gordium, in a level referred to by Young as the destruction level. Archaeologists at first interpreted the destruction level as the remains of a Cimmerian attack, c. 700 BCE. The traces were later reinterpreted as dating to c. 800 BCE, largely on the basis of dendrochronology and radiocarbon analysis, and with reference to the types of objects found in the burned level. If this reinterpretation is correct, then the otherwise-unrecorded destruction would seem to have been caused by a conflagration unrelated to a Cimmerian attack. The earlier date, though, is contested, primarily on the basis of the types and styles of objects excavated in the destruction level, the latest of which are dated to c. 700 BCE by some scholars. The radiocarbon date seems to have a range wide enough to accommodate both proposed archaeological dates. Although the date of the destruction continues to be debated, a date of c. 800 BCE is now most-commonly accepted.\n\nAccording to ancient tradition, in 333 BCE Alexander the Great cut (or otherwise unfastened) the Gordian Knot: this intricate knot joined the yoke to the pole of a Phrygian wagon that stood on the acropolis of the city. The wagon was associated with Midas or Gordias (or both), and was connected with the dynasty's rise to power. A local prophecy had decreed that whoever could loosen the knot was destined to become the ruler of Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38264", "title": "Granada", "text": "Granada\n\nGranada (, ) is the capital city of the province of Granada, in the autonomous community of Andalusia, Spain. Granada is located at the foot of the Sierra Nevada mountains, at the confluence of four rivers, the Darro, the Genil, the Monachil and the Beiro. It sits at an average elevation of above sea level, yet is only one hour by car from the Mediterranean coast, the Costa Tropical. Nearby is the Sierra Nevada Ski Station, where the FIS Alpine World Ski Championships 1996 were held.\n\nIn the 2005 national census, the population of the city of Granada proper was 236,982, and the population of the entire urban area was estimated to be 472,638, ranking as the 13th-largest urban area of Spain. About 3.3% of the population did not hold Spanish citizenship, the largest number of these people (31%; or 1% of the total population) coming from South America. Its nearest airport is Federico García Lorca Granada-Jaén Airport.\n\nThe Alhambra, an Arab citadel and palace, is in Granada. It is the most renowned building of the Andalusian Islamic historical legacy with its many cultural attractions that make Granada a popular destination among the tourist cities of Spain. The Almohad influence on architecture is also preserved in the Granada neighborhood called the Albaicín with its fine examples of Moorish and Morisco construction. Granada is also well-known within Spain for the University of Granada which has an estimated 82,000 students spread over five different campuses in the city. The pomegranate (in Spanish, \"granada\") is the heraldic device of Granada.\n\nThe region surrounding what today is Granada has been populated since at least 5500 BC and experienced Roman and Visigothic influences. The most ancient ruins found in the city belong to an Iberian oppidum called \"Ilturir\", in the region known as Bastetania. This oppidum eventually changed its name to \"Iliberri\", and after the Roman conquest of Iberia, to \"Municipium Florentinum Iliberitanum\".\n\nThe Umayyad conquest of Hispania, starting in AD 711, brought large parts of the Iberian Peninsula under Moorish control and established Al-Andalus. Granada's historical name in the Arabic language was (\"\"). The word \"Gárnata\" (or \"Karnatah\") possibly means \"hill of strangers\". Because the city was situated on a low plain and, as a result, difficult to protect from attacks, the ruler decided to transfer his residence to the higher situated area of Gárnata. In a short time this town was transformed into one of the most important cities of Al-Andalus.\n\nIn the early 11th century, after the collapse of the Umayyad Caliphate, the Berber Zawi ben Ziri established an independent kingdom for himself, the Taifa of Granada. By good fortune his memoirs have survived — the only ones for the Spanish \"Middle Ages\" — and they allow us to know this brief period in considerable detail. The Zirid Taifa of Granada was a Jewish state in all but name; the Muslim ruler was a powerless figurehead. It is the only time between Biblical times and the twentieth century that a Jewish ruler commanded an army. It was also the center of Jewish culture and scholarship.\n\nWhen Joseph took over after his father's death, he proved to lack his father's diplomacy, bringing on the 1066 Granada massacre, which ended the Golden Age of Jewish Culture in Spain.\n\nBy the end of the 11th century, the city had spread across the Darro to reach the hill of the future Alhambra, and included the Albaicín neighborhood (now a World Heritage site). The Almoravids ruled Granada from 1090 and the Almohad dynasty from 1166.\n\nIn 1228, with the departure of the Almohad prince Idris al-Ma'mun, who left Iberia to take the Almohad leadership, the ambitious Ibn al-Ahmar established the last and longest reigning Muslim dynasty in the Iberian peninsula, the Nasrids. With the Reconquista in full swing after the conquest of Córdoba in 1236, the Nasrids aligned themselves with Fernando III of Castile, officially becoming the Emirate of Granada in 1238. According to some historians, Granada was a tributary state to the Kingdom of Castile since that year. It provided connections with Muslim and Arab trade centers, particularly for gold from sub-Saharan Africa and the Maghreb, and exported silk and dried fruits produced in the area. The Nasrids also supplied troops from the Emirate and mercenaries from North Africa for service to Castile.\n\nIbn Battuta, a famous traveller and an authentic historian, visited the Kingdom of Granada in 1350. He described it as a powerful and self-sufficient kingdom in its own right, although frequently embroiled in skirmishes with the Kingdom of Castile. In his journal, Ibn Battuta called Granada the “metropolis of Andalusia and the bride of its cities.”\n\nDuring the Moor rule, Granada was a city with adherents to many religions and ethnicities (Arabs, Berbers, Christians and Jews) who lived in separate quarters. During this Nasrid period there were 137 Muslim mosques in the Medina (city) of Granada.\n\nOn January 2, 1492, the last Muslim ruler in Iberia, Emir Muhammad XII of Granada, known as \"Boabdil\" to the Spanish, surrendered complete control of the Emirate of Granada to Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile, \"Los Reyes Católicos\" (\"the Catholic Monarchs\"), after the last battle of the Granada War.\n\nThe 1492 surrender of the Islamic Emirate of Granada to the Catholic Monarchs is one of the most significant events in Granada's history as it marks the completion of the Reconquista of al-Andalus. The terms of the surrender, expressed in the Alhambra Decree treaty, explicitly allowed the city's Muslim inhabitants, known as Mudéjars, to continue unmolested in the practice of their faith and customs. By 1499, however, Cardinal Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros grew frustrated with the slow pace of the efforts of the first archbishop of Granada, Hernando de Talavera, to convert non-Christians to Christianity and undertook a program of forced Christian baptisms, creating the Converso (convert) class for Muslims and Jews. Cisneros's new tactics, which were a direct violation of the terms of the treaty, provoked the Rebellion of the Alpujarras (1568–71) centered in the rural Alpujarras region southwest of the city.\n\nResponding to the rebellion of 1501, the Castilian Crown rescinded the Alhambra Decree treaty, and mandated that Granada's Muslims must convert or emigrate. Under the 1492 Alhambra Decree, Spain's Jewish population, unlike the Muslims, had already been forced to convert under threat of expulsion or even execution, becoming Marranos (meaning \"pigs\" in Spanish), or Catholics of Jewish descent. Many of the elite Muslim class subsequently emigrated to North Africa. The majority of the Granada's Mudéjar Muslims stayed to convert, however, becoming Moriscos, or Catholics of Moorish descent (\"Moor\" being equivalent to Muslim). Both populations of \"conversos\" were subject to persecution, execution, or exile, and each had cells that practiced their original religion in secrecy.\n\nOver the course of the 16th century, Granada took on an ever more Catholic and Castilian character, as immigrants came to the city from other parts of the Iberian Peninsula. The city's mosques were converted to Christian churches or completely destroyed. New structures, such as the cathedral and the Chancillería, or Royal Court of Appeals, transformed the urban landscape. After the 1492 Alhambra decree, which resulted in the majority of Granada's Jewish population being expelled, the Jewish quarter (ghetto) was demolished to make way for new Catholic and Castilian institutions and uses.\n\nThe fall of Granada has a significant place among the important events that mark the latter half of the Spanish 15th century. It completed the so-called \"Reconquista\" (or Christian reconquest) of the almost 800-year-long Islamic rule in the Iberian Peninsula. Spain, now without any major internal territorial conflict, embarked on a great phase of exploration and colonization around the globe. In the same year, the sailing expedition of Christopher Columbus resulted in what is usually claimed to be the first European sighting of the New World, although Leif Erikson is often regarded as the first European to land in the New World, 500 years before Christopher Columbus. The resources of the Americas enriched the crown and the country, allowing Queen Isabella King Ferdinand to consolidate their rule as Catholic Monarchs of the united kingdoms. Subsequent conquests, and the Spanish colonization of the Americas by the maritime expeditions they commissioned, created the vast Spanish Empire: for a time, the largest in the world.\n\nThe greatest artistic wealth of Granada is its Spanish-Islamic art — in particular, the compound of the Alhambra and the Generalife. The Generalife is a pleasure palace with attached romantic gardens, remarkable both for its location and layout, as well as for the diversity of its flowers, plants and fountains. The Alhambra is the architectural culmination of the works of Nasrid art that were undertaken in the 13th and 14th centuries, with most of the Alhambra having been built at the time of Yusuf I and Mohammed V, between 1333 and 1354.\n\nAt present, the buildings of Granada are typically bourgeois in appearance, with much of the architecture dating from the 19th Century, together with numerous Renaissance and Baroque buildings.\n\nThe Alhambra is a Nasrid \"palace city\". It was declared a World Heritage site by UNESCO in 1984. It is certainly Granada's most emblematic monument and one of the most visited in Spain. It consists of a defensive zone, the Alcazaba, together with others of a residential and formal state character, the Nasrid Palaces and, lastly, the palace, gardens and orchards of the Generalife.\n\nThe Alhambra occupies a small plateau on the southeastern border of the city in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada above the Assabica valley. Some of the buildings may have existed before the arrival of the Moors. The Alhambra as a whole is completely walled, bordered to the north by the valley of the Darro, to the south by the \"al-Sabika\", and to the east of the \"Cuesta del Rey Chico\", which in turn is separated from the Albaicín and Generalife, located in the \"Cerro del Sol\".\n\nIn the 11th century the Castle of the Alhambra was developed as a walled town which became a military stronghold that dominated the whole city. But it was in the 13th century, with the arrival of the first monarch of the Nasrid dynasty, Muhammad I of Granada (Mohammed I, 1238–1273), that the royal residence was established in the Alhambra. This marked the beginning of its heyday. The Alhambra became palace, citadel and fortress, and was the residence of the Nasrid sultans and their senior officials, including servants of the court and elite soldiers (13th–14th centuries).\n\nIn 1492 the Catholic Monarchs, Ferdinand and Isabela, expelled the final Moors from the city of Granada. They established permanent residency in the Alhambra, and it was here that Christopher Columbus requested royal endorsement for his westward expedition that year.\n\nIn 1527 Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor demolished part of the architectural complex to build the Palace which bears his name. Although the Catholic Monarchs had already altered some rooms of the Alhambra after the conquest of the city in 1492, Charles V wanted to construct a permanent residence befitting an emperor. Around 1537 he ordered the construction of the \"Peinador de la Reina\", or Queen's dressing room, where his wife Isabel lived, over the Tower of Abu l-Hayyay.\n\nThere was a pause in the ongoing maintenance of the Alhambra from the 18th century for almost a hundred years, and during control by the First French Empire, substantial portions of the fortress were blown apart. The repair, restoration and conservation that continues to this day did not begin until the 19th century. The complex currently includes the Museum of the Alhambra, with objects mainly from the site of the monument itself and the Museum of Fine Arts.\n\nThe Generalife is a garden area attached to the Alhambra which became a place of recreation and rest for the Granadan Muslim kings when they wanted to flee the tedium of official life in the Palace. It occupies the slopes of the hill \"Cerro del Sol\" above the ravines of the Genil and the Darro and is visible from vantage points throughout the city. It was conceived as a rural village, consisting of landscaping, gardens and architecture. The palace and gardens were built during the reign of Muhammed III (1302–1309) and redecorated shortly after by Abu l-Walid Isma'il (1313–1324). It is of the Islamic Nasrid style, and is today one of the biggest attractions in the city of Granada. The Generalife was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO in 1984.\n\nIt is difficult to know the original appearance of the Generalife, as it has been subject to modifications and reconstructions throughout the Christian period which disfigured many of its former aspects. All buildings of the Generalife are of solid construction, and the overall decor is austere and simple. There is little variety to the Alhambra's decorative plaster, but the aesthetic is tasteful and extremely delicate. In the last third of the 20th century, a part of the garden was destroyed to build an auditorium.\n\nThe cathedral of Granada is built over the Nasrid Great Mosque of Granada, in the centre of the city. Its construction began during the Spanish Renaissance in the early 16th century, shortly after the conquest of Granada by the Catholic Monarchs, who commissioned the works to Juan Gil de Hontañón and Enrique Egas. Numerous grand buildings were built in the reign of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, so that the cathedral is contemporary to the Christian palace of the Alhambra, the University and the Real Chancillería (Supreme Court).\n\nThe church was conceived on the model of the Cathedral of Toledo, for what initially was a Gothic architectural project, as was customary in Spain in the early decades of the 16th century. However, Egas was relieved by the Catholic hierarchy in 1529, and the continuation of the work was assigned to Diego Siloe, who built upon the example of his predecessor, but changed the approach towards a fully Renaissance aesthetic.\n\nThe architect drew new Renaissance lines for the whole building over the gothic foundations, with an ambulatory and five naves instead of the usual three. Over time, the bishopric continued to commission new architectural projects of importance, such as the redesign of the main façade, undertaken in 1664 by Alonso Cano (1601–1667) to introduce Baroque elements. In 1706 Francisco de Hurtado Izquierdo and later his collaborator José Bada built the current tabernacle of the cathedral.\n\nHighlights of the church's components include the main chapel, where may be found the praying statues of the Catholic Monarchs, which consists of a series of Corinthian columns with the entablature resting on their capitals, and the vault over all. The spaces of the walls between the columns are perforated by a series of windows. The design of the tabernacle of 1706 preserves the classic proportions of the church, with its multiple columns crossing the forms of Diego de Siloé.\n\nThe Catholic Monarchs chose the city of Granada as their burial site by a royal decree dated September 13, 1504. The Royal Chapel of Granada, built over the former terrace of the Great Mosque, ranks with other important Granadan buildings such as the Lonja and the Catedral e Iglesia del Sagrario. In it are buried the Catholic Monarchs, their daughter Joanna of Castile (\"Juana la Loca\") and her husband Felipe I (\"Felipe el Hermoso\"). Construction of the Chapel started in 1505, directed by its designer, Enrique Egas. Built in several stages, the continuing evolution of its design joined Gothic construction and decoration with Renaissance ideals, as seen in the tombs and the 17th and 18th century Granadan art in the Chapel of Santa Cruz. Over the years the church acquired a treasury of works of art, liturgical objects and relics.\n\nThe Royal Chapel was declared a Historic Artistic Monument on May 19, 1884, taking consideration of BIC (Bien de Interés Cultural) status in the current legislation of Spanish Historical Heritage (Law 16/1985 of 25 June). The most important parts of the chapel are its main retable, grid and vault. In the Sacristy-Museum is the legacy of the Catholic Monarchs. Its art gallery is highlighted by works of the Flemish, Italian and Spanish schools.\n\nThe Albayzín (or Albaicín) is a neighborhood of Al-Andalus origin, much visited by tourists who flock to the city because of its historical associations, architecture, and landscape.\n\nThe archeological findings in the area show that it has been inhabited since ancient times. It became more relevant with the arrival of the Zirid dynasty, in 1013, when it was surrounded by defensive walls. It is one of the ancient centres of Granada, like the Alhambra, the Realejo and the Arrabal de Bib-Rambla, in the flat part of the city. Its current extension runs from the walls of the Alcazaba to the cerro of San Miguel and on the other hand, from the Puerta de Guadix to the Alcazaba.\n\nThis neighborhood had its greatest development in the Nasrid era, and therefore largely maintains the urban fabric of this period, with narrow streets arranged in an intricate network that extends from the upper area, called San Nicolás, to the river Darro and Calle Elvira, located in the Plaza Nueva. The traditional type of housing is the Carmen granadino, consisting of a free house surrounded by a high wall that separates it from the street and includes a small orchard or garden.\n\nIn the Muslim era the Albayzín was characterized as the locus of many revolts against the caliphate. At that time it was the residence of craftsmen, industrialists and aristocrats. With the Christian reconquest, it would progressively lose its splendor. The Christians built churches and settled there the Real Chancillería. During the rule of Felipe II of Spain, after the rebellion and subsequent expulsion of the Moors, the district was depopulated. In 1994 it was declared a Unesco World Heritage Site. Of its architectural wealth among others include the Ziri walls of the Alcazaba Cadima, the Nasrid walls, the towers of the Alcazaba, the churches of Salvador (former main mosque), San Cristóbal, San Miguel Alto and the Real Chancillería.\n\nThe Sacromonte neighbourhood is located on the Valparaíso hill, one of several hills that make up Granada. This neighborhood is known as the old neighbourhood of the Romani, who settled in Granada after the conquest of the city. It is one of the most picturesque neighborhoods, full of whitewashed caves cut into the rock and used as residences. The sound of strumming guitars may still be heard there in the performance of flamenco \"cantes\" and \"quejíos\", so that over time it has become one of the most popular tourist attractions in Granada.\n\nAt the top of this hill is the Abbey of Sacromonte and the College of Sacromonte, founded in the 17th century by the then Archbishop of Granada Pedro de Castro. The Abbey of Sacromonte was built to monitor and guard the alleged relics of the evangelists of Baetica. Those are of questionable authenticity, but since their finding the area has been a religious pilgrimage destination.\n\nThe abbey complex consists of the catacombs, the abbey (17th–18th centuries), the Colegio Viejo de San Dionisio Areopagita (17th century) and the Colegio Nuevo (19th century). The interior of the church is simple and small but has numerous excellent works of art, which accentuate the size and rich carving of the \"Crucificado de Risueño\", an object of devotion for the Romani people, who sing and dance in the procession of Holy Week. The facilities also include a museum, which houses the works acquired by the Foundation.\n\nThe Charterhouse of Granada is a monastery of cloistered monks, located in what was a farm or Muslim almunia called \"Aynadamar\" (\"fountain of tears\") that had an abundance of water and fruit trees. The initiative to build the monastery in that place was begun by Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba, known as El Gran Capitán. The charterhouse was founded in 1506; construction started ten years later, and continued for the following 300 years.\n\nThe Monastery suffered heavy damage during the Peninsular War and lost considerable property in 1837 as a result of the confiscations of Mendizábal. Currently, the monastery belongs to the Carthusians, reporting directly to the Archdiocese of Granada.\n\nThe street entrance to the complex is an ornate arch of Plateresque style. Through it one reaches a large courtyard, at the end which is a wide staircase leading to the entrance of the church. The church, of early 16th century style and plan, has three entrances, one for the faithful and the other two for monks and clergy. Its plan has a single nave divided into four sections, highlighting the retables of Juan Sánchez Cotán and the chancel's glass doors, adorned with mother-of-pearl, silver, rare woods and ivory. The presbytery is covered by elliptical vaulting. The main altar, between the chancel arch and the church tabernacle, is gilded wood.\n\nThe church's tabernacle and sancta sanctorum are considered a masterpiece of Baroque Spanish art in its blend of architecture, painting and sculpture. The dome that covers this area is decorated with frescoes by the Córdoba artist Antonio Palomino (18th century) representing the triumph of the Church Militant, faith, and religious life.\n\nThe courtyard, with galleries of arches on Doric order columns opening on it, is centered by a fountain. The Chapter House of Legos is the oldest building of the monastery (1517). It is rectangular and covered with groin vaulting.\n\nMosque of Granada\n\nThe Mosque of Granada was inaugurated in 2003 on the summit of the neighborhood of Albayzin. The mosque was built near the Church of San Salvador and the Church of San Nicolás. The Church of San Salvador was built on the site of the Great Mosque of Albayzin. The Society for the Return of Islam in Spain purchased the site in 1981, but it took many years for the plans to be approved. The mosque's initial funding was supplied by Shaykh 'Abdalqadir as-Sufi al-Murabit who envisioned providing Granada's new Spanish Muslim community with a mosque. Additional funding came from Malaysia, Morocco and the United Arab Emirates. In 1991 the CIE (Comunidad Islámica en España) hired the architect Renato Ramirez Sanchez to design the mosque. In the 1990s, there was a heated debate pertaining to the design of the minaret. Construction eventually began in 2001. The mosque now serves about 500 people.\n\nThe Palace of the Marqués de Salar was built in one of the most emblematic streets of Granada, the Carrera del Darro, at number 5. This place is an architectural example of the classical Granada during the Renaissance transformation of the XVI century. It was built by the Marqués de Salar, great-grandson of both Hernán Pérez del Pulgar (known by the name of \"El de la Hazañas\" [The One of the Valiant Deeds]) and Gonzalo Fernández de Córdoba (\"El Gran Capitán\" [The Great Captain]), Captain-General of the Castilian-Aragonese forces that concluded the Reconquest of the peninsula. The palace is now the museum of perfumes El Patio de los Perfumes, with of floor space on two floors and of patio to relax surrounded by flowers and perfumes.\n\n\nRealejo was the Jewish district in the time of the Nasrid Granada. (This is centuries since the Jewish population was so important that Granada was known in Al-Andalus under the name of \"Granada of the Jews\", \"Gharnāṭah al-Yahūd\".) It is today a district made up of many Andalusian villas, with gardens opening onto the streets, called \"Los Cármenes\".\n\nThis district contains the Carthusian monastery of the same name: Cartuja. This is an old monastery started in a late Gothic style with Baroque exuberant interior decorations. In this district also, many buildings were created with the extension of the University of Granada.\n\nThe toponym derives from a gate (Bab al-Ramla) that existed at the time of the Arabs. Nowadays, Bib-Rambla is a high point for gastronomy, especially in its terraces of restaurants, open on beautiful days. The Arab bazaar (\"Alcaicería\") is made up of several narrow streets, which start from this place and continue as far as the cathedral\n\nThe Sacromonte neighborhood is located on the extension of the hill of Albaicín, along the Darro River. This area, which became famous by the nineteenth century for its predominantly Gitano inhabitants, is characterized by cave houses, which are dug into the hillside. The area has a reputation as a major center of flamenco song and dance, including the \"Zambra Gitana\", Andalusian dance originating in the Middle East. The zone is a protected cultural environment under the auspices of the \"Centro de Interpretación del Sacromonte\", a cultural center dedicated to the preservation of Gitano cultural forms.\n\nAlbayzín (also written as Albaicín), located on a hill on the right bank of the river Darro, is the ancient Moorish quarter of the city and transports the visitor to a unique world: the site of the ancient city of Elvira, so-called before the Zirid \"Moors\" renamed it Granada. It housed the artists who went up to build the palaces of Alhambra on the hill facing it. Time allowed its embellishment. Of particular note is the Plaza de San Nicolas (Plaza of St Nicholas) from where a stunning view of the Alhambra can be seen. The artist George Owen Wynne Apperley RA RI (1884–1960) owned houses on both sides of the Placeta de San Nicolás, also known as El Mirador.\n\nThis formerly blue collar but now upmarket neighborhood houses 100,000 residents of Granada, making it the largest neighborhood or 'barrio'. Traditionally populated by Romani people, now many residents are from North and West Africa, China, and many South American countries. Every Saturday morning it hosts a large outdoor market or \"mercadillo\", where many people come and sell their wares of fruits and vegetables, clothes and shoes, and other odds and ends.\n\nThe city of Granada has a significant number of parks and gardens, including:\n\n\nGranada has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate (\"Csa\") close to a cold semi-arid climate (\"BSk\") Summers are hot and dry with daily temperatures averaging in the hottest month (July); however, temperatures reaching over are not uncommon in the summer months. Winters are cool and damp, with most of the rainfall concentrated from November through to January. The coldest month is January with daytime temperatures hovering at and dropping to around during the night. Frost is quite common as temperatures usually reach below-freezing in the early morning. Spring and autumn are unpredictable, with temperatures ranging from mild to warm. Early summer in 2017 confronted the city with two massive heat waves that broke long-standing record temperatures starting on June 13, 2017, with a new maximum high for the month at 40.6 °C (old record 40.0), which was topped three times within the span of four days at 40.9 °C on June 14, 41.3 (June 15) and, eventually, 41.5 (June 17). The first two days of this heat wave ranked Granada first in both Spain and Europe, making it the hottest place on the given days. The second extreme surge in temperatures followed roughly a month later when readings soared to 45.7 and 45.3 °C on July 12 and 13, respectively, surpassing the old July record by almost 3 degrees.\n\nIt is the subject of the 1967 song \"Vuelvo a Granada\" by Miguel Ríos.\n\nConstruction of a light rail network, the Granada metro, began in 2007. It was greatly delayed by the Spanish economic crisis; service finally started on 21 September 2017. It crosses Granada and covers the towns of Albolote, Maracena and Armilla. \nOther transportation options in the city of Granada are trains, taxis or buses.\n\nThe main company operating bus transport in Granada is Transportes Rober. There is also bus transportation to and from the airport with the company Alsa.\n\nGranada has rail connections with many cities in Spain. There are several types of train service to and from Granada\n\n\nGranada has a wide network of taxis to help travellers reach their destinations. Official Granada taxis are white with a green stripe.\n\nThe nearest airport is Federico García Lorca Airport, about west of Granada.\n\nThe average amount of time people spend commuting with public transit in Granada, for example to and from work, on a weekday is 42 min. 9% of public transit riders, ride for more than 2 hours every day. The average amount of time people wait at a stop or station for public transit is 10 min, while 8% of riders wait for over 20 minutes on average every day. The average distance people usually ride in a single trip with public transit is 2.7 km, while 0% travel for over 12 km in a single direction.\n\nGranada has a football team:\n\nGranada has a basketball team:\n\nSkiing:\n\nGranada has the following twin cities:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "255989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255989", "title": "Honne and tatemae", "text": "Honne and tatemae\n\nHonne and tatemae are Japanese words that describe the contrast between a person's and .\nThe public use of this dyadic concept began in the post-war era.\n\n\"Honne\" may be contrary to what is expected by society or what is required according to one's position and circumstances, and they are often kept hidden, except with one's closest friends. \"Tatemae\" is what is expected by society and required according to one's position and circumstances, and these may or may not match one's \"honne\".\n\nIn many cases \"tatemae\" leads to outright telling of lies in order to avoid exposing the true inward feelings.\n\nThe \"honne–tatemae\" divide is considered by some to be of paramount importance in Japanese culture.\n\n\"Honne\" and \"tatemae\" are similar to the Persian concepts of \"zaher\" (ظاهر) and \"batin\" (باطن). The self in Iranian culture is thought of as having two separate and distinct levels: an inner private core self (batin), and a social self or the \"proper public face\" (zaher).\n\nSome analysts see \"honne\" and \"tatemae\" as a cultural necessity resulting from a large number of people living in a comparatively small island nation. Close-knit co-operation and the avoidance of conflict are considered to be of vital importance in everyday life. The vulnerability of the Japanese to failures and slurs ,which make them feel shame, inferiority, makes them to feel competitions so keenly to avoid them except necessary ones. A Japanese worthy of being called sincere never verges on the danger of insulting a person he does not mean to provoke to aggression. For this reason, the Japanese tend to go to great lengths to avoid conflict, especially within the context of large groups.\n\nThe conflict between \"honne\" and \"giri\" (social obligations) is one of the main topics of Japanese drama throughout the ages. For example, the protagonist would have to choose between carrying out his obligations to his family/feudal lord or pursuing a clandestine love affair.\n\nThe same concept in Chinese culture is called inside face and outside face, and they also frequently come into conflict.\n\nContemporary phenomena such as \"hikikomori\" and parasite singles are seen as examples of late Japanese culture's growing problem of the new generation growing up unable to deal with the complexities of \"honne–tatemae\" and pressure of an increasingly consumerist society.\n\nDebate over whether \"tatemae\" and \"honne\" are a uniquely Japanese phenomenon continues in Japan, especially among those Japanese who feel their culture is unique in having the concepts of \"private mind\" and \"public mind\". Although there might not be direct single word translations for \"honne\" and \"tatemae\" in some languages, they do have two-word descriptions; for example in English \"private mind\" and \"public mind\".\n\nSome researchers suggest that the need for explicit words for \"tatemae\" and \"honne\" in Japanese culture is evidence that the concept is relatively new to Japan, whereas the unspoken understanding in many other cultures indicates a deeper internalization of the concepts. In any case, all cultures have conventions that help to determine appropriate communication and behavior in various social contexts which are implicitly understood without an explicit name for the social mores on which the conventions are based.\n\nA similar discord of Japanese true own feeling and the pretension before public is observed in \"yase-gaman\", the phrase means even starving to skeleton,being content or pretending to be so.Nowadays,the phrase is used for two different meanings, expressing archaic samurai virtue of self-discipline, silent moral heroism, or ridiculing stubbornness, face-savingness.\n\n\nGeneral:\n"}
{"id": "13058645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13058645", "title": "HopeNet", "text": "HopeNet\n\nHopeNet is a medical marijuana dispensary located in San Francisco. It was raided by the DEA in 2005.\n"}
{"id": "10543872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10543872", "title": "Hugh Haughton", "text": "Hugh Haughton\n\nHugh Haughton is an academic, author, editor and specialist in Irish literature and the literature of nonsense.\n\nBorn in Cork in the Republic of Ireland and educated at Leighton Park School and then Cambridge and Oxford, Hugh Haughton is a Professor at the University of York.\n\nHugh Haughton's research interests lie in twentieth-century Irish literature, modern poetry and poetics in the United Kingdom, United States and Ireland; psychoanalysis and literature; and the literature of nonsense.\n\nHe has written widely and his publications include Penguin's Centenary edition of Lewis Carroll's Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass and the Chatto Book of Nonsense, an anthology of Nonsense Poetry.\n\nHugh Haughton's books include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1029182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029182", "title": "Indexicality", "text": "Indexicality\n\nIn semiotics, linguistics, anthropology and philosophy of language, indexicality is the phenomenon of a sign \"pointing to\" (or \"indexing\") some object in the context in which it occurs. A sign that signifies indexically is called an index or, in philosophy, an indexical.\n\nThe modern concept originates in the semiotic theory of Charles Sanders Peirce, in which indexicality is one of the three fundamental sign modalities by which a sign relates to its referent, the others being iconicity and symbolism. Peirce's concept has been adopted and extended by several twentieth-century academic traditions, including those of linguistic pragmatics, linguistic anthropology, and Anglo-American philosophy of language.\n\nWords and expressions in language often derive some part of their referential meaning from indexicality. For example, \"I\" indexically refers to the entity that is speaking; \"now\" indexically refers to a time frame including the moment at which the word is spoken; and \"here\" indexically refers to a locational frame including the place where the word is spoken. Linguistic expressions that refer indexically are known as deictics, which thus form a particular subclass of indexical signs, though there is some terminological variation among scholarly traditions.\n\nLinguistic signs may also derive nonreferential meaning from indexicality, for example when features of a speaker's register indexically signal their social class. Nonlinguistic signs may also display indexicality: for example, a pointing index finger may index (without referring to) some object in the direction of the line implied by the orientation of the finger, and smoke may index the presence of a fire.\n\nIn linguistics and philosophy of language, the study of indexicality tends to focus specifically on deixis, while in semiotics and anthropology equal attention is generally given to nonreferential indexicality, including altogether nonlinguistic indexicality.\n\nIn disciplinary linguistics, indexicality is studied in the subdiscipline of pragmatics. Specifically, pragmatics tends to focus on deictics—words and expressions of language that derive some part of their referential meaning from indexicality—since these are regarded as \"[t]he single most obvious way in which the relationship between language and context is reflected in the structures of languages themselves\" Indeed, in linguistics the terms \"deixis\" and \"indexicality\" are often treated as synonymous, the only distinction being that the former is more common in linguistics and the latter in philosophy of language. This usage stands in contrast with that of linguistic anthropology, which distinguishes deixis as a particular subclass of indexicality; see below.\n\nThe concept of indexicality was introduced into the literature of linguistic anthropology by Michael Silverstein in a foundational 1976 paper, \"Shifters, Linguistic Categories and Cultural Description\". Silverstein draws on \"the tradition extending from Peirce to Jakobson\" of thought about sign phenomena to propose a comprehensive theoretical framework in which to understand the relationship between language and culture, the object of study of modern sociocultural anthropology. This framework, while also drawing heavily on the tradition of structural linguistics founded by Ferdinand de Saussure, rejects the other theoretical approaches known as structuralism, which attempted to project the Saussurean method of linguistic analysis onto other realms of culture, such as kinship and marriage (see structural anthropology), literature (see semiotic literary criticism), music, film and others. Silverstein claims that \"[t]hat aspect of language which has traditionally been analyzed by linguistics, and has served as a model\" for these other structuralisms, \"is just the part that is functionally unique among the phenomena of culture.\" It is indexicality, not Saussurean grammar, which should be seen as the semiotic phenomenon which language has in common with the rest of culture.\n\nSilverstein argues that the Saussurean tradition of linguistic analysis, which includes the tradition of structural linguistics in the United States founded by Leonard Bloomfield and including the work of Noam Chomsky and contemporary generative grammar, has been limited to identifying \"the contribution of elements of utterances to the referential or denotative value of the whole\", that is, the contribution made by some word, expression, or other linguistic element to the function of forming \"propositions—predications descriptive of states of affairs\". This study of reference and predication yields an understanding of one aspect of the meaning of utterances, their \"semantic meaning\", and the subdiscipline of linguistics dedicated to studying this kind of linguistic meaning is semantics.\n\nYet linguistic signs in contexts of use accomplish other functions than pure reference and predication—though they often do so simultaneously, as though the signs were functioning in multiple analytically distinct semiotic modalities at once. In the philosophical literature, the most widely discussed examples are those identified by J.L. Austin as the performative functions of speech, for instance when a speaker says to an addressee \"I bet you sixpence it will rain tomorrow\", and in so saying, in addition to simply making a proposition about a state of affairs, actually enters into a socially constituted type of agreement with the addressee, a wager. Thus, concludes Silverstein, \"[t]he problem set for us when we consider the actual broader uses of language is to describe the total meaning of constituent linguistic signs, only part of which is semantic.\" This broader study of linguistic signs relative to their general communicative functions is pragmatics, and these broader aspects of the meaning of utterances is \"pragmatic meaning\". (From this point of view, semantic meaning is a special subcategory of pragmatic meaning, that aspect of meaning which contributes to the communicative function of pure reference and predication.).\n\nSilverstein introduces some components of the semiotic theory of Charles Sanders Peirce as the basis for a pragmatics which, rather than assuming that reference and predication are the essential communicative functions of language with other nonreferential functions being mere addenda, instead attempts to capture the total meaning of linguistic signs in terms of all of their communicative functions. From this perspective, the Peircean category of indexicality turns out to \"give the key to the pragmatic description of language.\"\n\nThis theoretical framework became an essential presupposition of work throughout the discipline in the 1980s and remains so in the present.\n\nThe concept of indexicality has been greatly elaborated in the literature of linguistic anthropology since its introduction by Silverstein, but Silverstein himself adopted the term from the theory of sign phenomena, or semiotics, of Charles Sanders Peirce. As an implication of his general metaphysical theory of the three universal categories, Peirce proposed a model of the sign as a triadic relationship: a sign is \"something which stands to somebody for something in some respect or capacity.\" Thus, more technically, a sign consists of\n\n\nPeirce further proposed to classify sign phenomena along three different dimensions by means of three trichotomies, the second of which classifies signs into three categories according to the nature of the relationship between the sign-vehicle and the object it represents. As captioned by Silverstein, these are:\n\n\nSilverstein observes that multiple signs may share the same sign-vehicle. For instance, as mentioned, linguistic signs as traditionally understood are symbols, and analyzed in terms of their contribution to reference and predication, since they arbitrarily denote a whole class of possible objects of reference by virtue of their semantic meanings. But in a trivial sense each linguistic sign token (word or expression spoken in an actual context of use) also functions iconically, since it is an icon of its type in the code (grammar) of the language. It also functions indexically, by indexing its symbol type, since its use in context presupposes that such a type exists in the semantico-referential grammar in use in the communicative situation (grammar is thus understood as an element of the context of communication).\n\nSo icon, index and symbol are not mutually exclusive categories—indeed, Silverstein argues, they are to be understood as distinct modes of semiotic function, which may be overlaid on a single sign-vehicle. This entails that one sign-vehicle may function in multiple semiotic modes simultaneously. This observation is the key to understanding deixis, traditionally a difficult problem for semantic theory.\n\nIn linguistic anthropology, \"deixis\" is defined as referential indexicality—that is, morphemes or strings of morphemes, generally organized into closed paradigmatic sets, which function to \"individuate or single out objects of reference or address in terms of their relation to the current interactive context in which the utterance occurs.\". \"Deictic\" expressions are thus distinguished, on the one hand, from standard denotational categories such as common nouns, which potentially refer to any member of a whole class or category of entities: these display purely semantico-referential meaning, and in the Peircean terminology are known as \"symbols\". On the other hand, deixis is distinguished as a particular subclass of indexicality in general, which may be nonreferential or altogether nonlinguistic (see below).\n\nIn the older terminology of Otto Jespersen and Roman Jakobson, these forms were called \"shifters\". Silverstein, by introducing the terminology of Peirce, was able to define them more specifically as referential indexicals.\n\nNon-referential indices or \"Pure\" indices do not contribute to the semantico-referential value of a speech event yet \"signal some particular value of one or more contextual variables.\" Non-referential indices encode certain metapragmatic elements of a speech event's context through linguistic variations. The degree of variation in non-referential indices is considerable and serves to infuse the speech event with, at times, multiple levels of pragmatic \"meaning.\" Of particular note are: sex/gender indices, deference indices (including the affinal taboo index), affect indices, as well as the phenomena of phonological hypercorrection and social identity indexicality.\n\nExamples of non-referential forms of indexicality include sex/gender, affect, deference, social class, and social identity indices. Many scholars, notably Silverstein, argue that occurrences of non-referential indexicality entail not only the context-dependent variability of the speech event, but also increasingly subtle forms of indexical meaning (first, second, and higher-orders)as well.\n\nOne common system of non-referential indexicality is sex/gender indices. These indices index the gender or \"female/male\" social status of the interlocutor. There are a multitude of linguistic variants that act to index sex and gender such as:\n\n\nMany instances of sex/gender indices incorporate multiple levels of indexicality (also referred to as \"indexical order\"). In fact, some, such as the prefix-affixation of o- in Japanese, demonstrate complex higher-order indexical forms. In this example, the first order indexes politeness and the second order indexes affiliation with a certain gender class. It is argued that there is an even higher level of indexical order evidenced by the fact that many jobs use the \"o-\" prefix to attract female applicants. This notion of higher-order indexicality is similar to Silverstein's discussion of \"wine talk\" (see below) in that it indexes \"an identity-by-visible-consumption [here, \"employment\"]\" that is an inherent of a certain social register (i.e. social gender indexicality).\n\nAffective meaning is seen as \"the encoding, or indexing of speakers emotions into speech events.\" The interlocutor of the event \"decodes\" these verbal messages of affect by giving \"precedence to intentionality\"; that is, by assuming that the affective form intentionally indexes emotional meaning.\n\nSome examples of affective forms are: diminutives (for example, diminutive affixes in Indo-European and Amerindian languages indicate sympathy, endearment, emotional closeness, or antipathy, condescension, and emotional distance); ideophones and onomatopoeias; expletives, exclamations, interjections, curses, insults, and imprecations (said to be \"dramatizations of actions or states\"); intonation change (common in tone languages such as Japanese); address terms, kinship terms, and pronouns which often display clear affective dimensions (ranging from the complex address-form systems found languages such a Javanese to inversions of vocative kin terms found in Rural Italy); lexical processes such as synecdoche and metonymy involved in affect meaning manipulation; certain categories of meaning like evidentiality; reduplication, quantifiers, and comparative structures; as well as inflectional morphology.\n\nAffective forms are a means by which a speaker indexes emotional states through different linguistic mechanisms. These indices become important when applied to other forms of non-referential indexicality, such as sex indices and social identity indices, because of the innate relationship between first-order indexicality and subsequent second-order (or higher) indexical forms. (See multiple indices section for Japanese example).\n\nDeference indices encode deference from one interlocutor to another (usually representing inequalities of status, rank, age, sex, etc.). Some examples of deference indices are:\n\nThe T/V deference entitlement system of European languages was famously detailed by linguists Brown and Gilman. As previously mentioned, T/V deference entitlement is a system by which a speaker/addressee speech event is determined by perceived disparities of 'power' and 'solidarity' between interlocutors. Brown and Gilman organized the possible relationships between the speaker and the addressee into six categories:\nThe 'power semantic' indicates that the speaker in a superior position uses T and the speaker in an inferior position uses V. The 'solidarity semantic' indicates that speakers use T for close relationships and V for more formal relationships. These two principles conflict in categories 2 and 5, allowing either T or V in those cases:\nBrown and Gilman observed that as the solidarity semantic becomes more important than the power semantic in various cultures, the proportion of T to V use in the two ambiguous categories changes accordingly.\n\nSilverstein comments that while exhibiting a basic level of first-order indexicality, the T/V system also employs second-order indexicality vis-à-vis 'enregistered honorification'. He cites that the V form can also function as an index of valued \"public\" register and the standards of good behavior that are entailed by use of V forms over T forms in public contexts. Therefore, people will use T/V deference entailment in 1) a first-order indexical sense that distinguishes between speaker/addressee interpersonal values of 'power' and 'solidarity' and 2) a second-order indexical sense that indexes an interlocutor's inherent \"honor\" or social merit in employing V forms over T forms in public contexts.\n\nJapanese provides an excellent case study of honorifics. Honorifics in Japanese can be divided into two categories: addressee honorifics, which index deference to the addressee of the utterance; and referent honorifics, which index deference to the referent of the utterance. Cynthia Dunn claims that \"almost every utterance in Japanese requires a choice between direct and distal forms of the predicate.\" The direct form indexes intimacy and \"spontaneous self-expression\" in contexts involving family and close friends. Contrarily, distal form index social contexts of a more formal, public nature such as distant acquaintances, business settings, or other formal settings.\n\nJapanese also contains a set of humble forms (Japanese \"kenjōgo\" 謙譲語) which are employed by the speaker to index their deference to someone else. There are also suppletive forms that can be used in lieu of regular honorific endings (for example, the subject honorific form of : \"meshiagaru\" 召し上がる). Verbs that involve human subjects must choose between \"distal\" or \"direct\" forms (towards the addressee) as well as a distinguish between either no use of referent honorifics, use of subject honorific (for others), or use of humble form (for self). The Japanese model for non-referential indexicality demonstrates a very subtle and complicated system that encodes social context into almost every utterance.\n\nDyirbal, a language of the Cairns rain forest in Northern Queensland, employs a system known as the affinal taboo index. Speakers of the language maintain two sets of lexical items: 1) an \"everyday\" or common interaction set of lexical items and 2) a \"mother-in-law\" set that is employed when the speaker is in the very distinct context of interaction with their mother-in-law. In this particular system of deference indices, speakers have developed an entirely separate lexicon (there are roughly four \"everyday\" lexical entries for every one \"mother-in-law\" lexical entry; 4:1) to index deference in contexts inclusive of the mother-in-law.\n\nHypercorrection is defined by Wolfram as \"the use of speech form on the basis of false analogy.\" DeCamp defines hypercorrection in a more precise fashion claiming that \"hypercorrection is an incorrect analogy with a form in a prestige dialect which the speaker has imperfectly mastered.\" Many scholars argue that hypercorrection provides both an index of \"social class\" and an \"Index of Linguistic insecurity\". The latter index can be defined as a speaker's attempts at self-correction in areas of perceived linguistic insufficiencies which denote their lower social standing and minimal social mobility.\n\nDonald Winford conducted a study that measured the phonological hypercorrection in creolization of English speakers in Trinidad. He claims that the ability to use prestigious norms goes \"hand-in-hand\" with knowledge of stigmatization afforded to use of \"lesser\" phonological variants. He concluded that sociologically \"lesser\" individuals would try to increase the frequency of certain vowels that were frequent in the high prestige dialect, but they ended up using those vowels even more than their target dialect. This hypercorrection of vowels is an example of non-referential indexicality that indexes, by virtue of innate urges forcing lower class civilians to hypercorrect phonological variants, the actual social class of the speaker. As Silverstein claims, this also conveys an \"Index of Linguistic insecurity\" in which a speaker not only indexes their actual social class (via first-order indexicality) but also the insecurities about class constraints and subsequent linguistic effects that encourage hypercorrection in the first place (an incidence of second-order indexicality).\n\nWilliam Labov and many others have also studied how hypercorrection in African American Vernacular English demonstrates similar social class non-referential indexicality.\n\nMultiple non-referential indices can be employed to index the social identity of a speaker. An example of how multiple indexes can constitute social identity is exemplified by Ochs discussion of copula deletion: \"That Bad\" in American English can index a speaker to be a child, foreigner, medical patient, or elderly person. Use of multiple non-referential indices at once (for example copula deletion and raising intonation), helps further index the social identity of the speaker as that of a child.\n\nLinguistic and non-linguistic indices are also an important ways of indexing social identity. For example, the Japanese utterance \"-wa\" in conjunction with raising intonation (indexical of increasing affect) by one person who \"looks like a woman\" and another who looks \"like a man\" may index different affective dispositions which, in turn, can index gender difference. Ochs and Schieffilen also claim that facial features, gestures, as well as other non-linguistic indices may actually help specify the general information provided by the linguistic features and augment the pragmatic meaning of the utterance.\n\nIn much of the research currently conducted upon various phenomena of non-referential indexicality, there is an increased interest in not only what is called first-order indexicality, but subsequent second-order as well as \"higher-order\" levels of indexical meaning. First-order indexicality can be defined as the first level of pragmatic meaning that is drawn from an utterance. For example, instances of deference indexicality such as the variation between informal \"Tu\" and the more formal \"Vous\" in French (See T/V deference indexes) indicate a speaker/addressee communicative relationship built upon the values of 'power' and 'solidarity' possessed by the interlocutors. When a speaker addresses somebody using the V form instead of the T form, they index (via first-order indexicality) their understanding of the need for deference to the addressee. In other words, they perceive/ recognize an incongruence between their level of 'power' and/or 'solidarity', and that of their interlocutor and employ a more formal way of addressing that person to suit the contextual constraints of the speech event.\n\nSecond-Order Indexicality is concerned with the connection between linguistic variables and the metapragmatic meanings that they encode. For example, a woman is walking down the street in Manhattan and she stops to ask somebody where a McDonald's is. He responds to her talking in a heavy \"Brooklyn\" accent. She notices this accent and considers a set of possible personal characteristics that might be indexed by it (such as the man's intelligence, economic situation, and other non-linguistic aspects of his life). The power of language to encode these preconceived \"stereotypes\" based solely on accent is an example of second-order indexicality (representative of a more complex and subtle system of indexical form than that of first-order indexicality).\n\nMichael Silverstein has also argued that indexical order can transcend levels such as second-order indexicality and discusses higher-order indexicality in terms of what he calls \"oinoglossia\" or \"wine talk\".(For discussion see below)\n\nFor demonstrations of higher (or rarefied) indexical orders, Michael Silverstein discusses the particularities of \"life-style emblematization\" or \"convention-dependent-indexical iconicity\" which, as he claims, is prototypical of a phenomenon he dubs \"wine talk.\" Professional wine critics use a certain \"technical vocabulary\" that are \"metaphorical of prestige realms of traditional English gentlemanly horticulture.\" Thus, a certain \"lingo\" is created for wine that indexically entails certain notions of prestigious social classes or genres. When \"yuppies\" use the lingo for wine flavors created by these critics in the \"actual context\" of drinking wine, Silverstein argues that they become the \"well-bred, interesting (subtle, balanced, intriguing, winning, etc.) person\" that is iconic of the metaphorical \"fashion of speaking\" employed by people of higher social registers, demanding notoriety as a result of this high level of connoisseurship. In other words, the wine drinker becomes a refined, gentlemanly critic and, in doing so, adopts a similar level of connoisseurship and social refinement. Silverstein defines this as an example of higher-order indexical \"authorization\" in which the indexical order of this \"wine talk\" exists in a \"complex, interlocking set of institutionally formed macro-sociological interests.\" A speaker of English metaphorically transfers him- or herself into the social structure of the \"wine world\" that is encoded by the \"oinoglossia\" of elite critics using a very particular \"technical\" terminology.\n\nThe use of \"wine talk\" or similar \"fine-cheeses talk\", \"perfume talk\", \"Hegelian-dialectics talk\", \"particle-physics talk\", \"DNA-sequencing talk\", \"semiotics talk\" etc. confers upon an individual an identity-by-visible-consumption indexical of a certain macro-sociological elite identity and is, as such, an instance of higher-order indexicality.\n\nPhilosophical work on language from the mid-20th century, such as that of J.L. Austin and the ordinary language philosophers, has provided much of the originary inspiration for the study of indexicality and related issues in linguistic pragmatics (generally under the rubric of the term \"deixis\"; see above), though linguists have appropriated concepts originating in philosophical work for purposes of empirical study, rather than for more strictly philosophical purposes.\n\nHowever, indexicality has remained an issue of interest to philosophers who work on language. In contemporary analytic philosophy, the preferred nominal form of the term is \"indexical\" (rather than \"index\"), defined as \"any expression whose content varies from one context of use to another ... [for instance] pronouns such as 'I', 'you', 'he', 'she', 'it', 'this', 'that', plus adverbs such as 'now', 'then', 'today', 'yesterday', 'here', and 'actually'. This exclusive focus on linguistic expressions represents a narrower construal than is preferred in linguistic anthropology, which regards linguistic indexicality (\"deixis\") as a special subcategory of indexicality in general, which is often nonlinguistic; see above.\n\nIndexicals appear to represent an exception to, and thus a challenge for, the understanding of natural language as the grammatical coding of logical propositions; they thus \"raise interesting technical challenges for logicians seeking to provide formal models of correct reasoning in natural language.\" They are also studied in relation to fundamental issues in epistemology, self-consciousness, and metaphysics, for example asking whether indexical facts are facts that do not follow from the physical facts, and thus also form a link between philosophy of language and philosophy of mind.\n\nThe American logician David Kaplan is regarded as having developed \"[b]y far the most influential theory of the meaning and logic of indexicals\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56380182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56380182", "title": "Ipotesti–Candesti culture", "text": "Ipotesti–Candesti culture\n\nThe Ipotesti–Candesti culture () was an archaeological culture in Eastern Europe. It developed in the mid-6th century by the merger of elements of the Prague-Penkovka and Prague-Korchak cultures and local cultures (including Germanic) in the area between Prut and Lower Danube. It stretched in the Lower Danube over territory in Romania and Moldavia. The population of the area was made up of Romanized descendants of Daco-Getic, Germanic and Slavic tribes. There are views that it derived from the Chernyakhov culture and represented a group of the Antes. The houses were identical to the Slavic huts of the Prague-Korchak and Penkovka areas. The sites in Romania are known as \"Ipotești-Candești-Ciurel\" () or \"Ipotești-Ciurel-Cândești\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1617531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1617531", "title": "James Bright", "text": "James Bright\n\nJames Wilson Bright (1852–1926) was an American philologist active in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century. He was a Professor of English Philology at Johns Hopkins University, and specialized in early Germanic languages and Old and Middle English specifically.\n\nBright completed his undergraduate education at Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania. During the 1861-1862 school year, a competition was initiated at the school to find the member of the senior class \"deemed to be the most proficient in English Philology as demonstrated by a written discussion of the language of some English classic.\" This competition was called the Fowler Prize, named after famed scholar William Chauncey Fowler who was a friend of the school and created the prize and its $30 reward. In 1876, during the time Bright attended Lafayette, the subject of the prize was the study of American poet William Cullen Bryant. Bright competed in, and won the Fowler Prize this year, and during commencement was awarded the prize by Bryant himself at the graduation ceremony.\n\nBright was the first person to receive a Ph.D. in English from Johns Hopkins, in 1882. After teaching briefly at Cornell, he returned to Johns Hopkins in 1885, where he oversaw the development of the English program.\n\nBright became the first occupant of the Caroline Donovan Chair of English, which was established in 1905. He held the chair until his retirement in 1925. His successor as Chairman (though not as Donovan Professor) was John Calvin French.\n\nAmong Bright's publications was an \"Anglo-Saxon Reader\", whose similarity to the reader published by the more well-known British philologist Henry Sweet prompted Sweet to remark that Bright's work \"bears a striking resemblance to an earlier version of my Reader.\"\n\nBright's 4,000 volume teaching collection of Anglo-Saxon, Middle English, and Early Modern English texts was bought by Goucher College in Baltimore, MD shortly before his death in 1926. The collection records the development of English as a university discipline. Today, it supports research in Early Modern and Modern literature, religion, political science, law, linguistics, and communications.\n\n"}
{"id": "23398784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23398784", "title": "La Muerta", "text": "La Muerta\n\nLa Muerta is a Maya archaeological site in the northern Petén region of Guatemala, located between the sites of El Mirador and El Tintal. It is located on a promontory south of the El Tigre complex of El Mirador, and it is considered a satellite of that city. La Muerta was inhabited during the Early to Late Classic Period. The site has been extensively looted.\n\nAlthough the precise origin of the name is unknown, the site takes its name from when it was used as a gum-gatherers' camp, the name meaning \"the dead (woman or thing)\" in Spanish.\n\nLa Muerta was investigated by archaeologist Richard D. Hansen in the 1980s. Some of the roof combs of the structures remain in good condition. The site is divided into North and South Groups, located approximately apart. Eleven residential areas have been identified within these two groups.\n\nStructure A1 is a temple with a north-facing stairway. The building measures by and is high, with walls built of limestone. The structure has been severely damaged by looters. During archaeological investigations of the building, a damaged but finely crafted stucco face was excavated.\n\nStructure A2 is a pyramid immediately to the west of Structure A1 and has been badly damaged by a combination of natural erosion and looting. Archaeologists have completely excavated the interior of the structure. The structure has six vaulted rooms of different sizes with fine stucco floors. The walls had been partially faced with stucco which showed traces of red paint. The building had stairways on the north and south sides, these were flanked by poorly preserved sculpted masks that had traces of red and blue paint. Investigations of Structure A2 have revealed abundant ceramics dating to both the Early and Late Classic.\n\nStructure 2 at La Muerta is one of the most unusual Maya buildings in the northern Petén region, with a two-level subterranean labyrinth.\n\nMonument 1 is a sculptured stela that was found in the North Group. It was in a very poor state of preservation, being badly eroded and broken into more than 900 fragments of various sizes. It is likely that the monument was deliberately destroyed in antiquity. The stela bears the image of a head in profile, wearing a mask. The face is above the representation of a large monster head with upper teeth. A column of at least six hieroglyphs is also present. The main figure is thought to be that of a deity.\n\nStela 2 is an isolated monument located about north of the path leading to El Mirador. It is a limestone stela measuring tall, and is divided into upper and lower portions by a worn depression. The stela has several carved circular cavities measuring roughly across and deep but is otherwise plain, it may originally have been covered in painted stucco.\n"}
{"id": "39743326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39743326", "title": "List of open-air and living history museums", "text": "List of open-air and living history museums\n\nThis is a list of open-air and living history museums by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome ecological living museums are zoos\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19044072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19044072", "title": "Luck of Edenhall", "text": "Luck of Edenhall\n\nThe \"Luck of Edenhall\" is a glass beaker that was made in Syria or Egypt in the middle of the 14th century, elegantly decorated with arabesques in blue, green, red and white enamel with gilding. It is now in the Victoria and Albert Museum in London and is 15.8 cm high and 11.1 cm wide at the brim. It had reached Europe by the 15th century, when it was provided with a decorated stiff leather case with a lid, which includes the Christian IHS; this no doubt helped it to survive over the centuries. Glass drinking vessels very rarely survive—or remain in one family—for long enough to acquire a legendary status, so the successful passing of this vessel through many generations of the Musgrave family of Edenhall, Cumberland is exceptional. Legend has it that this ancient beaker embodied the continuing prosperity of its owners. Telling the story in \"The Gentleman's Magazine\" in 1791, Rev. William Mounsey of Bottesford wrote:\n\nThe beaker is now known to be an exceptionally fine and pristine example of 14th-century luxury Islamic glass. Old stories relating to the \"Luck\" suggested it found its way to England in the baggage of a returning Crusader. However, recent dating which suggests the Luck was made in the 14th century makes this unlikely as the Crusades ended in the 13th century. The antiquity of the legend surrounding it has not been determined. It was the subject of a German ballad by Ludwig Uhland, later rendered in English by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow; this wrongly says the glass was shattered. A number of rare objects owned by families in the North of England were known as \"lucks\"; the glass is first documented, and named as the \"Luck of Edenhall\", in 1677 in the will of Sir Philip Musgrave.\n\nThe glass remained intact in the possession of the Musgrave family. In 1926 the glass was loaned to the Victoria and Albert Museum, and in 1958 it was finally acquired for the nation. It remains on permanent view in the Medieval & Renaissance galleries. Eden Hall no longer exists, having been demolished in 1934.\n\nThe story of the Luck of Edenhall is told in the 2004 manga \"Bartender\". It is also the namesake for the protagonists's bar, Bar Eden Hall.\n\nThe legend of the Edenhall Cup is mentioned in the first chapter of Anthony Trollope's novel \"The Little House at Allington\", saying that guests had to drink from the cup regardless of the danger that it might break.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2832013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2832013", "title": "Mackinaw cloth", "text": "Mackinaw cloth\n\nMackinaw cloth is a heavy and dense water-repellent woolen cloth, similar to Melton cloth. It was used to make a short coat of the same name, sometimes with a doubled shoulder. These jackets have their origins on the Canadian frontier and were later made famous by American loggers in the upper Midwest as workwear during the mid-19th century logging boom.\n\nThe Mackinac or Mackinaw region in present-day Michigan was an important trade artery during the 18th and 19th centuries; it was named after the Straits of Mackinac, which connect Lake Michigan and Lake Huron. A military force at the straits could also command traffic from and to Lake Superior, which drains into the St. Marys River, which in turn empties into Lake Huron east of the straits. Although Fort Mackinac at Mackinac Island had been ceded by Britain to the newly independent United States in the Treaty of Paris in 1783, the British Army refused to evacuate the posts on the Great Lakes until 1796, when the forts at Detroit, Mackinac, and Niagara were handed over to the Americans. British and American forces contested the area throughout the War of 1812, and the boundary was not settled until 1828, when Fort Drummond, a British post on nearby Drummond Island, was evacuated.\n\nThe Mackinaw jacket traces its roots to coats that were made by white and Métis women in November 1811, when John Askin Jr., an early trader on the upper Great Lakes, hired them to design and sew 40 woolen greatcoats for the British Army post at Fort St. Joseph (Ontario), near Mackinac. His wife, Madelaine Askin, took an important role in the design of the coat. Askin was fulfilling a contract he received from Capt. Charles Roberts, the post commander; Roberts was desperate to clothe his men, who had last been issued greatcoats in 1807. The jackets were made from three-point trade blankets that Askin, who at the time was keeper of the King's store at the fort, supplied on the captain's authority. Although the order called for blue greatcoats, the number of blankets proved insufficient, so the number was filled out by coats made from blankets in red as well as the black-on-red plaid pattern that is associated with the jackets of today. It would be found that the long skirts of the greatcoat were unsuitable for deep snow, and once these were removed, the Mackinaw jacket was born.\n\nIn the days of the Old West, heavyweight buffalo plaid Mackinaw jackets were worn with tuques by American and Canadian lumberjacks in the Midwest, Northwest territories and Alaska. By the 1930s, the jacket had also found widespread use as sportswear among hunters and fishermen, together with the trapper cap. A variant of the Mackinaw in olive drab was issued to the US Army for cold weather use by Jeep crews. After the war, plaid jackets of this type, manufactured under the Pendleton brand, became popular casual wear for American men as an alternative to the similar Hollywood jacket.\n\nDuring the 1960s, padded buffalo plaid Pendleton overshirts were widely worn by surfers and surf rock groups such as the Beach Boys.. In the late '60s and early '70s \"Mac\" jackets became standard apparel that helped defined the image of Vancouver's notorious Park Gangs, whose members came from tough, working class, logging and labouring families. The jacket made another comeback among the 1990s grunge, hardcore punk and skater subcultures due to its cheapness, durability, warmth, and protection from falls when skateboarding. It is also occasionally seen on members of the 2010s hipster subculture due to its practical but timeless feel.\n\nIn Canada, the \"Mac\" is regarded as a marker of national identity and working-class values, and has been exploited for effect in Canadian comedy shows such as \"Second City Television\" and \"This Hour has 22 Minutes\". It is sometimes referred to as a stoner jacket in Canada.\n\nThe stereotypical lumberjack is often depicted wearing a plaid jacket, such as Rufus Ruffcut in Wacky Races or Butcher Bronsky in .\n\n\"HOLY MACKINAW!\" is Joe Bowen's signature catchphrase when announcing games for \"Hockey Night in Canada\" as a player scores or goal tender makes an impressive save.\n"}
{"id": "3289566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289566", "title": "Metalinguistics", "text": "Metalinguistics\n\nMetalinguistics is the branch of linguistics that studies language and its relationship to other cultural behaviors. It is the study of dialogue relationships between units of speech communication as manifestations and enactments of co-existence. Jacob L. Mey in his book, \"Trends in Linguistics\", describes Mikhail Bakhtin's interpretation of metalinguistics as \"encompassing the life history of a speech community, with an orientation toward a study of large events in the speech life of people and embody changes in various cultures and ages.\"\n\nJean-Émile Gombert, teaching genetic psychology at Dijon University, France, states that one thing is to find an adequate way to treat the comprehension and the production of language, and another is to successfully adopt a reflexive attitude regarding the language objects and their manipulation. This is the second time that a psycholinguistic tradition recently developed has been given the name metalinguistics.\n\nThe linguist Noam Chomsky defines the field of metalinguistics as the subject knowledge of the characteristics and the operation of language or, from a more functionalist perspective, of its structure, its operation and its use. The relevant psychological description cannot be based on abstraction, it requires that the researchers and theorists widen their scopes till the point they can embrace the importance of the behavioural actions in the cognitive context of the subjects that realise them. The French linguist Jules Gilliéron wrote that \"All consciousness is necessarily 'meta' from the vantage point of the beholder, as it is not based on the real, but on its intelligibility of the real\".\n\nMetalinguistic skills involve amplified and logical understanding of the rules used to govern language. Scholar Patrick Hartwell points out how substantial it is for students to develop these capabilities, especially heightened phonological awareness, which is a key precursor to literacy. An essential aspect to language development is focused on the student being aware of language and the components of language.\n\nThis idea is also examined in the article, 'Metalinguistic Awareness and Literacy Acquisition in Different Languages', that centers on how the construction of a language and writing strategy shape an individual's ability to read. It also discusses the manner in which bilingualism increases particular elements of metalinguistic awareness.\n\nPublished research studies by Elizabeth McAllister have concluded that metalinguistic abilities are associated to cognitive development and is contingent on metalinguistic awareness which relates to reading skill level, academic success and cultural environment that starts at infancy and continues through preschool.\n\nAccording to \"Text in Education and Society\", some examples of metalinguistic skills include discussing, examining, thinking about language, grammar and reading comprehension. The text also states that a student's recognition or self-correction of language in verbal and written form helps them further advance their skills. The book also illustrates manners in which literature can form connections or create boundaries between educational intelligence and practical knowledge.\n\nGail T. Gillion wrote the book, \"Phonological Awareness\", which illustrates the connection between phonological awareness and metalinguistic awareness's in literacy learning. It essentially states that a student's ability to understand the spoken word and their ability to recognize a word and decode it are dependent on each other. The text also discusses ways in which students struggling with speech impairments and reading difficulties can improve their learning process.\n\nLinguists use this term to designate activities associated with \"metalanguage\", a language composed of the entirety of words forming linguistic terminology (for example, syntax, semantics, phoneme, lexeme... as well as terms in more current usage, such as word, sentence, letter, etc.) Metalinguistics is used to refer to the language, whether natural or formalized (as in logic), which is itself used to speak of language; to a language whose sole function is to describe a language. The language itself must constitute the sole sphere of application for the entire vocabulary.\nExperts are undecided about the value of awareness of metalanguage to language learners, and some \"schools of thought\" in language learning have been heavily against it.\n\nMetalinguistic awareness refers to the understanding that language is a system of communication, bound to rules, and forms the basis for the ability to discuss different ways to use language (Baten, Hofman, & Loeys, 2011). In other words, it is the ability to consciously analyze language and its sub-parts, to know how they operate and how they are incorporated into the wider language system (Beceren, 2010). An individual with such ability is aware that linguistic forms and structure can interact and be manipulated to produce a vast variety of meanings. Words are only arbitrarily and symbolically associated with their referents, and are separable from them. For example, a dog is named \"Cat\", but the word \"Cat\" is only a representation for the animal, dog. It does not make the dog a cat.\n\nThe term was first used by Harvard professor Courtney Cazden in 1974 to demonstrate the shift of linguistic intelligence across languages. Metalinguistic awareness in bilingual learners is the ability to objectively function outside one language system and to objectify languages’ rules, structures and functions. Code-switching and translation are examples of bilinguals’ metalinguistic awareness. Metalinguistics awareness was used as a construct in research extensively in the mid 1980s and early 1990s.\nMetalinguistic awareness is a theme that has frequently appeared in the study of bilingualism. It can be divided into four subcategories, namely phonological, word, syntactic and pragmatic awareness (Tunmer, Herriman, & Nesdale, 1988). Amongst the four, phonological and word awareness are the two aspects of metalinguistic awareness that have garnered the greatest attention in bilingual literacy research. Research has shown metalinguistic awareness in bilinguals to be a crucial component because of its documented relationship and positive effects on language ability, symbolic development and literacy skills. Indeed, many studies investigating the impact of bilingualism on phonological and word awareness have indicated a positive bilingual effect (Baten, et al., 2011; Chen et al., 2004; Goetz, 2003; Kang, 2010; Ransdell, Barbier, & Niit, 2006; Whitehurst & Lonigan, 1998). Bilinguals are simultaneously learning and switching between two languages, which may facilitate the development of stronger phonological awareness. It is postulated that bilinguals’ experiences of acquiring and maintaining two different languages aid them in developing an explicit and articulated understanding of how language works (Adesope, Lavin, Thompson, & Ungerleider, 2010). Hence they are equipped with stronger metalinguistic awareness as compared to their monolingual counterparts.\n\nIn their book \"Literacy and Orality\", scholars David R. Olson and Nancy Torrance explore the relationship between literacy and metalinguistic awareness, citing a link that arises from the fact that, in both reading and writing, language can become the object of thought and discussion. Prose reading and writing can be an instrument of metalinguistic reflection and in those cases one must assess the particular meaning of terms and of grammatical relations between them in order, either to understand such texts or write them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33983744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33983744", "title": "Monatsschrift für die Geschichte und Wissenschaft des Judenthums", "text": "Monatsschrift für die Geschichte und Wissenschaft des Judenthums\n\nMonatsschrift für die Geschichte und Wissenschaft des Judenthums (\"Monthly magazine for science and history of Judaism\", abbreviated to MGWJ) is a monthly journal devoted to the science of Judaism. It was founded by Zecharias Frankel in Dresden in 1851, following the suppression of \"Zeitschrift für die Religiösen Interessen des Judenthums\" in 1846. It was published in Germany for 83 years between 1851 and 1939 (except in 1887–1892) In time, it became the leading journal in the Jewish world.\n\nFrankel believed that the objects striven for in the contest of 1848 had been attained, and that the Jews no longer had separate political interests. He therefore considered that the time had arrived for them to undertake a scientific investigation of their history and literature.\n\nThe first seventeen volumes of the \"Monatsschrift\" were edited by Frankel, who was succeeded by the historian Heinrich Graetz. The latter edited vols. xviii. to xxxvi. inclusive, being assisted by Pinkus Frankl of Berlin in vols. xxxiii. to xxxv. Publication was stopped in 1887, but was resumed in 1892, with Marcus Brann and David Kaufmann as joint editors (vols. xxxvii. to xliii.). Upon Kaufmann's death (1899) Brann became sole editor. Since Jan., 1904, the \"Monatsschrift\" has appeared as the organ of the Gesellschaft zur Förderung der Wissenschaft des Judenthums.\n\nThe \"Monatsschrif\" was first published in Dresden. Some volumes were then issued in Krotoschin and some in Berlin; but the greatest number appeared in Breslau. A complete table of contents for the first seventeen volumes is appended to vol. xvii., and a similar table for the years 1869 to 1887 is given at the end of vol. xxxvi. This table has been published separately also.\n\n"}
{"id": "28231633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28231633", "title": "Monheim Town Hall", "text": "Monheim Town Hall\n\nThe Monheim Town Hall (German \"Monheimer Rathaus\") is a historical building in Monheim, Bavaria, southern Germany, now owned by the city's council.\n\nThe building, constructed from 1714 to 1720 for a rich Jewish merchant, the Court Jew Abraham Elias Model, is most notable for its ceilings, displaying motifs from the Old Testament, or Tanakh, which were restored in 1978 and 1994 respectively.\n\nThe Jewish community in Monheim was established in 1697, when Duke Johann Wilhelm allowed six Jewish families which had been banned from Eichstätt, to settle in Monheim. The new community was allowed to acquire property in Monheim, to construct a Synagogue and to work as merchants in town. In the following years, the community grew considerably, numbering 19 families and 150 people by 1737.\n\nThe prospering community however raised concerns with the local population, which was worried about eventually becoming outnumbered in town. In 1736, restrictions were passed, allowing only a limited number of weddings to be conducted by the local Jews at considerable cost. In 1741, Duke Charles III Philip passed an act banning all Jews from Palatinate-Neuburg. By the 31 July 1741, all Jews had to leave his lands and were only permitted to take with them what they could carry. No financial compensation was made for their loss of property. The Jews from Monheim left for the towns in the region not part of Palatinate-Neuburg and their origin from Monheim remains obvious through the surname \"Monheim\" or \"Monheimer\".\n\nThe location of the current town hall was acquired by Abraham Elias Model in 1712 from Ferdinand Kugler for 1,025 Gulden. The later owned a brewery and guest house at the spot, called \"Gasthaus zur Rose\". Model had the old building demolished and commissioned a new building to be constructed, which was erected between 1714 and 1720.\n\nThe new building, which was referred to in the local town chronicles as \"very precious\", was built in Baroque style. It was a square three-story building which was richly decorated, especially the ceilings. The main room on the second floor, now the council chambers, depict Abraham being prevented by the angel from sacrificing Isaac, with a text in Hebrew from the Book of Genesis.\n\nThe ceiling, long hidden, was only restored in 1978. Two more ceilings, also on the second floor, were restored in 1994. One depicts Moses receiving the Ten Commandments while the other shows King David playing the harp.\n\nFor a time it was assumed that the house also functioned as a synagogue, Monheim having had a Rabbi since 1715, but this has since been disproven. Nothing is left of the former synagogue, which was located in the nearby building that later became the guest house \"Zum Ochsen\".\n\nWith the forced departure of the Jews in 1741, the building came into non-Jewish, private possession. In 1853, it was acquired by the town from the brewer Anton Wunderlich, to be used as a school house. For this purpose, the chamber that is now the main council chamber was subdivided into two rooms. The rooms were nevertheless insufficient to house all pupils and a separate building was constructed from 1892 to 1895 to house the school boys, while the girls stayed at the town hall. Eventually, two more, larger schools were completed, one in 1957 and 1976. With the completion of the later, the town hall ceased to be required for schooling purposes.\n\nThe ceilings on the second floor can be visited free of charge during the opening hours of the town hall, provided no marriages or council meetings take place in the rooms at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51588800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51588800", "title": "Neo Booker T Washingtonism", "text": "Neo Booker T Washingtonism\n\nNeo Booker T Washingtonism is a continued conceptualization of Booker T Washington's position in the 1960s civil rights movement of assuaging race relations between white and black Americans by positing that blacks should postpone their aspirations of full civil rights and work within the system of the government to ultimately be accepted in the long run as productive citizens.\n"}
{"id": "34249254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34249254", "title": "Nightlife in Bangkok", "text": "Nightlife in Bangkok\n\nThe nightlife in Bangkok had a reputation in the past for having an element of rowdiness. Besides being the capital of Thailand, Bangkok has been recently reported as having a historic drop in its crime rate. Bangkok's crime fighting program will eventually be adopted by Bangkok's neighboring cities and communities in the near future.\n\nOn weekdays, most of Bangkok's nightlife takes places in the Red Light Districts of Soi Cowboy and Nana Plaza. Most venues outside of those areas are only open on weekends. Khaosan Road is another popular nightlife spot in Bangkok with mostly young backpackers roaming the streets.\n\nIt has been mentioned in popular culture in Murray Head's song \"One Night in Bangkok\" with the infamous quote \"One night in Bangkok can make a hard man humble.\" While the choruses extol Bangkok's reputation and exciting atmosphere in the song, the American in the music video would denounce the city, including its red-light district, \"muddy old river\" and \"reclining Buddha\". Bangkok is also well known for their massage parlors and the popular \"Eden Club\"; which offers \"professional sexual services\". One of the few rules of the Eden Club is to take two ladies that are equally skilled in pleasuring each other as the male client. Unmarried males can find sexual companionship amongst the local prostitutes.\n\nBangkok has also been discovered to be one of the safest and relaxed cities in the world. Their nightlife ranges from live music in jazz clubs to world-class restaurants. The once sleazy image of Bangkok at night has been virtually eradicated in the past 30 years. Bangkok is the only place in the world with pink taxi cabs that cater towards the LGBT tourists and residents. Even unescorted women can enjoy Bangkok safely and without any problems. Each bar has a different show of girls and bar games and a variety of stereos competing for the attentions of the patrons. Cabaret shows in Bangkok have a tendency to feature transgender performers. Drug violations are often handed out more severe penalties than in the Western world and statutory rape is completely frowned upon.\n\nThe price of domestic beer in Bangkok ranges from $1.44 USD to $2.87 USD while the cost of imported beer ranges from $1.92 USD to $4.79 USD. The price of taxi service for a 1-kilometer drive ranges from $0.13 USD to $0.18 USD. Due to the lower prices for alcoholic beverages as opposed to the major cities of North America and Europe, the majority of the customers are the local students who are attending university. The Lamsalee sub-district caters more to the local crowds than international tourists; with their dance clubs catering towards their regular stream of customers. Tourists are more likely to head towards the Si Lom sub-district (with Soi 2 being more for the young adult crowd with nightclubs playing dance music and Soi 4 being more easy-going with a variety of restaurants and places to drink alcohol).\n\nThailand is famous for its racy nightlife entertainment and amongst the madness is a thriving cabaret scene. Every night tourists pack into the various venues for an entertaining show that is full of laughs, music and dance. In Thailand the top shows include Calypso Cabaret, Simon Phuket, Tiffany's and popular newcomers Playhouse Theater.\n\nThailand is one of the most well-recognized centers of transgender and transvestite performance artists in the world. They are known as either \"kathoeys\" or \"ladyboys.\" In fact, it is the most cost-effective place to acquire sex reassignment surgery along with having the highest standards of surgeons trained in performing operations of this kind. Most of these performs already had breast implants and typically perform before completely transitioning into womanhood by undergoing surgery on their genitals. All sorts of feminine legends are celebrated here from Hollywood divas to legendary female disco artists and even mythical creaturess from Thailand's glorious past. These transgender people are accepted even in rural Thailand. However, their genders are not legally recognized and suicide rates amongst ladyboy show performers are higher than the national average.\n"}
{"id": "10029446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10029446", "title": "Nucleated village", "text": "Nucleated village\n\nA nucleated village or clustered settlement is one of the main types of settlement pattern. It is one of the terms used by geographers and landscape historians to classify settlements. It is most accurate with regard to planned settlements: its concept is one in which the houses, even most farmhouses within the entire associated area of land, such as a parish, cluster around a central church, which is close to the village green. Other focal points can be substituted depending on cultures and location, such as a commercial square, circus, crescent, a railway station, park or a sports stadium.\n\nA clustered settlement contrasts with these:\n\n\nA sub-category of clustered settlement tends to be a planned village or community, deliberately established by landowners or the stated and enforced planning policy of local authorities and central governments.\n\nOne example of a nucleated village in England is Shapwick, Somerset. \n\nMany nucleated villages originated in Anglo-Saxon England, but historian W. G. Hoskins discredits a previously held view that uniquely associated nucleated villages with that influx to England and their emergent society.\n\nIn England, nucleated settlements prevail for example in central parts of the country away from the rockiest soil and steepest slopes where open field farming predominated. In this landscape, the village was typically surrounded by two (or three) large fields in which villagers had individual strips - see open field system. Various explanations have been offered as to the reason for this form of settlement including the ethnic origin of the Anglo-Saxon settlers, density of population and the influence of local lords of the manor. Dr Tom Williamson theorised in 2004 that the best explanation is the combination of soil quality and climate which leads to differences in agricultural techniques for exploiting local conditions.\n\nPlanned settlements can be clearly distinguished from other communities in the late medieval period when a landowners began to en masse allocate two rows of new houses set on equal-sized plots of land - burgage plots. At the opposite end of the burgage plot there is often a back lane which gives the original village a regular layout, right-angled development, which can often still be seen today in England. Planned villages were usually associated with markets, from which the landowner expected to make profits.\n\nIn central Europe, nucleated villages have also emerged from smaller settlements and many farmsteads (equivalent to many hamlets) also grew into societal communities with growth in population. These villages generally have an irregular shape but are roughly circular around a central place and/or church as their epicenter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26298", "title": "Radiometric dating", "text": "Radiometric dating\n\nRadiometric dating or radioactive dating is a technique used to date materials such as rocks or carbon, in which trace radioactive impurities were selectively incorporated when they were formed. The method compares the abundance of a naturally occurring radioactive isotope within the material to the abundance of its decay products, which form at a known constant rate of decay. The use of radiometric dating was first published in 1907 by Bertram Boltwood and is now the principal source of information about the absolute age of rocks and other geological features, including the age of fossilized life forms or the age of the Earth itself, and can also be used to date a wide range of natural and man-made materials.\n\nTogether with stratigraphic principles, radiometric dating methods are used in geochronology to establish the geologic time scale. Among the best-known techniques are radiocarbon dating, potassium–argon dating and uranium–lead dating. By allowing the establishment of geological timescales, it provides a significant source of information about the ages of fossils and the deduced rates of evolutionary change. Radiometric dating is also used to date archaeological materials, including ancient artifacts.\n\nDifferent methods of radiometric dating vary in the timescale over which they are accurate and the materials to which they can be applied.\n\nAll ordinary matter is made up of combinations of chemical elements, each with its own atomic number, indicating the number of protons in the atomic nucleus. Additionally, elements may exist in different isotopes, with each isotope of an element differing in the number of neutrons in the nucleus. A particular isotope of a particular element is called a nuclide. Some nuclides are inherently unstable. That is, at some point in time, an atom of such a nuclide will undergo radioactive decay and spontaneously transform into a different nuclide. This transformation may be accomplished in a number of different ways, including alpha decay (emission of alpha particles) and beta decay (electron emission, positron emission, or electron capture). Another possibility is spontaneous fission into two or more nuclides.\n\nWhile the moment in time at which a particular nucleus decays is unpredictable, a collection of atoms of a radioactive nuclide decays exponentially at a rate described by a parameter known as the half-life, usually given in units of years when discussing dating techniques. After one half-life has elapsed, one half of the atoms of the nuclide in question will have decayed into a \"daughter\" nuclide or decay product. In many cases, the daughter nuclide itself is radioactive, resulting in a decay chain, eventually ending with the formation of a stable (nonradioactive) daughter nuclide; each step in such a chain is characterized by a distinct half-life. In these cases, usually the half-life of interest in radiometric dating is the longest one in the chain, which is the rate-limiting factor in the ultimate transformation of the radioactive nuclide into its stable daughter. Isotopic systems that have been exploited for radiometric dating have half-lives ranging from only about 10 years (e.g., tritium) to over 100 billion years (e.g., samarium-147).\n\nFor most radioactive nuclides, the half-life depends solely on nuclear properties and is essentially a constant. It is not affected by external factors such as temperature, pressure, chemical environment, or presence of a magnetic or electric field. The only exceptions are nuclides that decay by the process of electron capture, such as beryllium-7, strontium-85, and zirconium-89, whose decay rate may be affected by local electron density. For all other nuclides, the proportion of the original nuclide to its decay products changes in a predictable way as the original nuclide decays over time. This predictability allows the relative abundances of related nuclides to be used as a clock to measure the time from the incorporation of the original nuclides into a material to the present.\n\nThe basic equation of radiometric dating requires that neither the parent nuclide nor the daughter product can enter or leave the material after its formation. The possible confounding effects of contamination of parent and daughter isotopes have to be considered, as do the effects of any loss or gain of such isotopes since the sample was created. It is therefore essential to have as much information as possible about the material being dated and to check for possible signs of alteration. Precision is enhanced if measurements are taken on multiple samples from different locations of the rock body. Alternatively, if several different minerals can be dated from the same sample and are assumed to be formed by the same event and were in equilibrium with the reservoir when they formed, they should form an isochron. This can reduce the problem of contamination. In uranium–lead dating, the concordia diagram is used which also decreases the problem of nuclide loss. Finally, correlation between different isotopic dating methods may be required to confirm the age of a sample. For example, the age of the Amitsoq gneisses from western Greenland was determined to be using uranium–lead dating and using lead–lead dating, results that are consistent with each other.\n\nAccurate radiometric dating generally requires that the parent has a long enough half-life that it will be present in significant amounts at the time of measurement (except as described below under \"Dating with short-lived extinct radionuclides\"), the half-life of the parent is accurately known, and enough of the daughter product is produced to be accurately measured and distinguished from the initial amount of the daughter present in the material. The procedures used to isolate and analyze the parent and daughter nuclides must be precise and accurate. This normally involves isotope-ratio mass spectrometry.\n\nThe precision of a dating method depends in part on the half-life of the radioactive isotope involved. For instance, carbon-14 has a half-life of 5,730 years. After an organism has been dead for 60,000 years, so little carbon-14 is left that accurate dating cannot be established. On the other hand, the concentration of carbon-14 falls off so steeply that the age of relatively young remains can be determined precisely to within a few decades.\n\nIf a material that selectively rejects the daughter nuclide is heated, any daughter nuclides that have been accumulated over time will be lost through diffusion, setting the isotopic \"clock\" to zero. The temperature at which this happens is known as the closure temperature or blocking temperature and is specific to a particular material and isotopic system. These temperatures are experimentally determined in the lab by artificially resetting sample minerals using a high-temperature furnace. As the mineral cools, the crystal structure begins to form and diffusion of isotopes is less easy. At a certain temperature, the crystal structure has formed sufficiently to prevent diffusion of isotopes. This temperature is what is known as closure temperature and represents the temperature below which the mineral is a closed system to isotopes. Thus an igneous or metamorphic rock or melt, which is slowly cooling, does not begin to exhibit measurable radioactive decay until it cools below the closure temperature. The age that can be calculated by radiometric dating is thus the time at which the rock or mineral cooled to closure temperature. Dating of different minerals and/or isotope systems (with differing closure temperatures) within the same rock can therefore enable the tracking of the thermal history of the rock in question with time, and thus the history of metamorphic events may become known in detail. This field is known as thermochronology or thermochronometry.\n\nThe mathematical expression that relates radioactive decay to geologic time is\n\nwhere\n\nThe equation is most conveniently expressed in terms of the measured quantity \"N\"(\"t\") rather than the constant initial value \"N\".\n\nThe above equation makes use of information on the composition of parent and daughter isotopes at the time the material being tested cooled below its closure temperature. This is well-established for most isotopic systems. However, construction of an isochron does not require information on the original compositions, using merely the present ratios of the parent and daughter isotopes to a standard isotope. Plotting an isochron is used to solve the age equation graphically and calculate the age of the sample and the original composition.\n\nRadiometric dating has been carried out since 1905 when it was invented by Ernest Rutherford as a method by which one might determine the age of the Earth. In the century since then the techniques have been greatly improved and expanded. Dating can now be performed on samples as small as a nanogram using a mass spectrometer. The mass spectrometer was invented in the 1940s and began to be used in radiometric dating in the 1950s. It operates by generating a beam of ionized atoms from the sample under test. The ions then travel through a magnetic field, which diverts them into different sampling sensors, known as \"Faraday cups\", depending on their mass and level of ionization. On impact in the cups, the ions set up a very weak current that can be measured to determine the rate of impacts and the relative concentrations of different atoms in the beams.\n\nUranium–lead radiometric dating involves using uranium-235 or uranium-238 to date a substance's absolute age. This scheme has been refined to the point that the error margin in dates of rocks can be as low as less than two million years in two-and-a-half billion years. An error margin of 2–5% has been achieved on younger Mesozoic rocks.\n\nUranium–lead dating is often performed on the mineral zircon (ZrSiO), though it can be used on other materials, such as baddeleyite, as well as monazite (see: monazite geochronology). Zircon and baddeleyite incorporate uranium atoms into their crystalline structure as substitutes for zirconium, but strongly reject lead. Zircon has a very high closure temperature, is resistant to mechanical weathering and is very chemically inert. Zircon also forms multiple crystal layers during metamorphic events, which each may record an isotopic age of the event. \"In situ\" micro-beam analysis can be achieved via laser ICP-MS or SIMS techniques.\n\nOne of its great advantages is that any sample provides two clocks, one based on uranium-235's decay to lead-207 with a half-life of about 700 million years, and one based on uranium-238's decay to lead-206 with a half-life of about 4.5 billion years, providing a built-in crosscheck that allows accurate determination of the age of the sample even if some of the lead has been lost. This can be seen in the concordia diagram, where the samples plot along an errorchron (straight line) which intersects the concordia curve at the age of the sample.\n\nThis involves the alpha decay of Sm to Nd with a half-life of 1.06 x 10 years. Accuracy levels of within twenty million years in ages of two-and-a-half billion years are achievable.\n\nThis involves electron capture or positron decay of potassium-40 to argon-40. Potassium-40 has a half-life of 1.3 billion years, and so this method is applicable to the oldest rocks. Radioactive potassium-40 is common in micas, feldspars, and hornblendes, though the closure temperature is fairly low in these materials, about 350 °C (mica) to 500 °C (hornblende).\n\nThis is based on the beta decay of rubidium-87 to strontium-87, with a half-life of 50 billion years. This scheme is used to date old igneous and metamorphic rocks, and has also been used to date lunar samples. Closure temperatures are so high that they are not a concern. Rubidium-strontium dating is not as precise as the uranium-lead method, with errors of 30 to 50 million years for a 3-billion-year-old sample.\n\nA relatively short-range dating technique is based on the decay of uranium-234 into thorium-230, a substance with a half-life of about 80,000 years. It is accompanied by a sister process, in which uranium-235 decays into protactinium-231, which has a half-life of 32,760 years.\n\nWhile uranium is water-soluble, thorium and protactinium are not, and so they are selectively precipitated into ocean-floor sediments, from which their ratios are measured. The scheme has a range of several hundred thousand years. A related method is ionium–thorium dating, which measures the ratio of ionium (thorium-230) to thorium-232 in ocean sediment.\n\n Radiocarbon dating is also simply called Carbon-14 dating. Carbon-14 is a radioactive isotope of carbon, with a half-life of 5,730 years, (which is very short compared with the above isotopes) and decays into nitrogen. In other radiometric dating methods, the heavy parent isotopes were produced by nucleosynthesis in supernovas, meaning that any parent isotope with a short half-life should be extinct by now. Carbon-14, though, is continuously created through collisions of neutrons generated by cosmic rays with nitrogen in the upper atmosphere and thus remains at a near-constant level on Earth. The carbon-14 ends up as a trace component in atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO).\n\nA carbon-based life form acquires carbon during its lifetime. Plants acquire it through photosynthesis, and animals acquire it from consumption of plants and other animals. When an organism dies, it ceases to take in new carbon-14, and the existing isotope decays with a characteristic half-life (5730 years). The proportion of carbon-14 left when the remains of the organism are examined provides an indication of the time elapsed since its death. This makes carbon-14 an ideal dating method to date the age of bones or the remains of an organism. The carbon-14 dating limit lies around 58,000 to 62,000 years.\n\nThe rate of creation of carbon-14 appears to be roughly constant, as cross-checks of carbon-14 dating with other dating methods show it gives consistent results. However, local eruptions of volcanoes or other events that give off large amounts of carbon dioxide can reduce local concentrations of carbon-14 and give inaccurate dates. The releases of carbon dioxide into the biosphere as a consequence of industrialization have also depressed the proportion of carbon-14 by a few percent; conversely, the amount of carbon-14 was increased by above-ground nuclear bomb tests that were conducted into the early 1960s. Also, an increase in the solar wind or the Earth's magnetic field above the current value would depress the amount of carbon-14 created in the atmosphere.\n\nThis involves inspection of a polished slice of a material to determine the density of \"track\" markings left in it by the spontaneous fission of uranium-238 impurities. The uranium content of the sample has to be known, but that can be determined by placing a plastic film over the polished slice of the material, and bombarding it with slow neutrons. This causes induced fission of U, as opposed to the spontaneous fission of U. The fission tracks produced by this process are recorded in the plastic film. The uranium content of the material can then be calculated from the number of tracks and the neutron flux.\n\nThis scheme has application over a wide range of geologic dates. For dates up to a few million years micas, tektites (glass fragments from volcanic eruptions), and meteorites are best used. Older materials can be dated using zircon, apatite, titanite, epidote and garnet which have a variable amount of uranium content. Because the fission tracks are healed by temperatures over about 200 °C the technique has limitations as well as benefits. The technique has potential applications for detailing the thermal history of a deposit.\n\nLarge amounts of otherwise rare Cl (half-life ~300ky) were produced by irradiation of seawater during atmospheric detonations of nuclear weapons between 1952 and 1958. The residence time of Cl in the atmosphere is about 1 week. Thus, as an event marker of 1950s water in soil and ground water, Cl is also useful for dating waters less than 50 years before the present. Cl has seen use in other areas of the geological sciences, including dating ice and sediments.\n\nLuminescence dating methods are not radiometric dating methods in that they do not rely on abundances of isotopes to calculate age. Instead, they are a consequence of background radiation on certain minerals. Over time, ionizing radiation is absorbed by mineral grains in sediments and archaeological materials such as quartz and potassium feldspar. The radiation causes charge to remain within the grains in structurally unstable \"electron traps\". Exposure to sunlight or heat releases these charges, effectively \"bleaching\" the sample and resetting the clock to zero. The trapped charge accumulates over time at a rate determined by the amount of background radiation at the location where the sample was buried. Stimulating these mineral grains using either light (optically stimulated luminescence or infrared stimulated luminescence dating) or heat (thermoluminescence dating) causes a luminescence signal to be emitted as the stored unstable electron energy is released, the intensity of which varies depending on the amount of radiation absorbed during burial and specific properties of the mineral.\n\nThese methods can be used to date the age of a sediment layer, as layers deposited on top would prevent the grains from being \"bleached\" and reset by sunlight. Pottery shards can be dated to the last time they experienced significant heat, generally when they were fired in a kiln.\n\nOther methods include:\n\nAbsolute radiometric dating requires a measurable fraction of parent nucleus to remain in the sample rock. For rocks dating back to the beginning of the solar system, this requires extremely long-lived parent isotopes, making measurement of such rocks' exact ages imprecise. To be able to distinguish the relative ages of rocks from such old material, and to get a better time resolution than that available from long-lived isotopes, short-lived isotopes that are no longer present in the rock can be used.\n\nAt the beginning of the solar system, there were several relatively short-lived radionuclides like Al, Fe, Mn, and I present within the solar nebula. These radionuclides—possibly produced by the explosion of a supernova—are extinct today, but their decay products can be detected in very old material, such as that which constitutes meteorites. By measuring the decay products of extinct radionuclides with a mass spectrometer and using isochronplots, it is possible to determine relative ages of different events in the early history of the solar system. Dating methods based on extinct radionuclides can also be calibrated with the U-Pb method to give absolute ages. Thus both the approximate age and a high time resolution can be obtained. Generally a shorter half-life leads to a higher time resolution at the expense of timescale.\n\nI beta-decays to Xe with a half-life of 16 million years. The iodine-xenon chronometer is an isochron technique. Samples are exposed to neutrons in a nuclear reactor. This converts the only stable isotope of iodine (I) into Xe via neutron capture followed by beta decay (of I). After irradiation, samples are heated in a series of steps and the xenon isotopic signature of the gas evolved in each step is analysed. When a consistent Xe/Xe ratio is observed across several consecutive temperature steps, it can be interpreted as corresponding to a time at which the sample stopped losing xenon.\n\nSamples of a meteorite called Shallowater are usually included in the irradiation to monitor the conversion efficiency from I to Xe. The difference between the measured Xe/Xe ratios of the sample and Shallowater then corresponds to the different ratios of I/I when they each stopped losing xenon. This in turn corresponds to a difference in age of closure in the early solar system.\n\nAnother example of short-lived extinct radionuclide dating is the Al – Mg chronometer, which can be used to estimate the relative ages of chondrules. Al decays to Mg with a half-life of 720 000 years. The dating is simply a question of finding the deviation from the natural abundance of Mg (the product of Al decay) in comparison with the ratio of the stable isotopes Al/Mg.\n\nThe excess of Mg (often designated Mg* ) is found by comparing the Mg/Mg ratio to that of other Solar System materials.\n\nThe Al – Mg chronometer gives an estimate of the time period for formation of primitive meteorites of only a few million years (1.4 million years for Chondrule formation).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22119567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22119567", "title": "Roknia", "text": "Roknia\n\nRoknia is a necropolis in the Guelma region of north-east Algeria consisting of more than 7000 dolmens spread over an area of 2 km.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37580938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37580938", "title": "Rouben Galichian", "text": "Rouben Galichian\n\nRouben Galichian () (born 1938, Tabriz) is an independent London-based scholar and researcher specializing in historical maps of Armenia and the South Caucasus region.\n\nRouben Galichian has published many books and articles on the history and cartography of the Caucasus. His first book entitled \"Historic Maps of Armenia. The Cartographic Heritage\" (2004), which presents a collection of world maps and maps of the Caucasus over a period of 2600 years, became a bestseller in 2005. His articles have appeared in various cartographic magazines, journals and periodicals, among them Imago Mundi and the IMCoS Journal. He has lectured extensively in Armenia, USA, Iran, UK and France.\n\nHis book entitled \"The Invention of History: Azerbaijan, Armenia and the Showcasing of Imagination\" (2009/2010) documents the culture and history of Nagorno-Karabakh through the centuries. His next work, \"Clash of Histories in the South Caucasus\" delves into the details and reasons of Azerbaijani historical and cultural falsifications, based mainly on Arab, Persian, Azerbaijani and Western sources, as well as analyzing 45 old maps, which form part of the international cartographic heritage.\n\nFor his services to Armenian historical cartography Galichian was awarded an Honorary Doctorate by the National Academy of Sciences of Armenia in 2008. In 2009 he was the recipient of Armenia's Vazgen I Cultural Achievements Medal.\nIn 2013 he was the recipient of \"Movses Khorenatsi\" Presidential Medal for his services to the Armenia-Diaspora relations and Armenian culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "353811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353811", "title": "Sino-Soviet split", "text": "Sino-Soviet split\n\nThe Sino-Soviet split (1956–1966) was the breaking of political relations between the People's Republic of China (PRC) and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR), caused by doctrinal divergences arising from the powers' different interpretations of Marxism–Leninism, as influenced by the national interests of each country during the Cold War (1945–91). In the late 1950s and early 1960s, debates of ideological orthodoxy between the communist parties of the USSR and of the PRC became disputes about Soviet policies of de-Stalinization and peaceful coexistence with the capitalist West. Despite such background politics, to the Chinese public Mao Zedong proposed a belligerent attitude towards capitalist countries, an initial rejection of the Soviets' peaceful-coexistence policy, which he perceived as Marxist revisionism by the Russians.\n\nSince 1956—after Nikita Khrushchev denounced Stalin and Stalinism in the speech \"On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences\"—the PRC and the USSR had progressively disagreed and diverged about orthodox interpretation of Marxist ideology. By 1961, intractable differences of philosophy provoked the Communist Party of China to formally denounce Soviet communism as the product of \"Revisionist Traitors\". The Sino-Soviet split was about who would lead the revolution of world communism—to whom, China or Russia, would the vanguard parties of the world turn for aid and assistance? In that vein, the USSR and the PRC competed for ideological leadership through their respective networks of communist parties in the countries of their spheres of influence.\n\nGeopolitically, the Sino-Soviet split was a pivotal event of the bi-polar Cold War, as important as the Berlin Wall (1961), the Cuban Missile Crisis (1962), and the Vietnam War (1965–1975), because it facilitated the Sino–American rapprochement of the 1972 Nixon visit to China. Internationally, the geopolitical rivalry between Communists—Chinese Stalinism and Russian peaceful coexistence—eliminated the myth that monolithic Communism was an actor in the 1947–1950 period of the Vietnam War and in world politics—such \"Realpolitik\" established the tri-polar geopolitics of the latter part of the Cold War.\n\nIn taking Communism to China, the leader of the Communist Party of China (CPC), Mao Zedong, fought against Imperial Japan, and especially the Chinese Civil War (1927–1949), against the Nationalist Kuomintang, led by Generalissimo Chiang Kai-shek. Stalin played both sides and Mao ignored most of his advice. During the Second World War (1939–1945), Stalin advised Mao to enter an anti-Japanese-coalition with Chiang Kai-shek. After the war, Stalin advised Mao against seizing power and to collaborate with the Nationalists, because of Stalin's Treaty of Friendship and Alliance (1945) with the Kuomintang; in communist solidarity, Mao abided Stalin. In the event, Gen. Chiang Kai-shek opposed the USSR's annexation of Tannu Uriankhai; three months after the Japanese surrender, Stalin broke the treaty requiring Soviet withdrawal from Manchuria, gave Mao control of the region, and ordered Gen. Rodion Malinovsky to give the Japanese army's spoils of war to the Chinese Communists.\n\nIn the 1945–1949 period, Chiang Kai-shek received large amounts of financial and military assistance from the United States, which tried to broker peace between him and Mao. In 1948–1949, the Nationalist armies collapsed and the leaders fled to Formosa (Taiwan).\n\nAs head-of-state of the People's Republic of China, Mao visited Moscow (December 1949–February 1950) and returned to China with the Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship (1950), which included a $300 million loan, the transfer of former Russian colonial properties, and a 30-year military alliance. Under Soviet guidance, the PRC applied the soviet model of centralised planned economy; the planning and development made heavy industry the priority and consumer-goods production the second priority. Despite Soviet guidance, Mao developed the basic ideas of China's Great Leap Forward (1958–1961), from an agrarian society to an industrial society.\n\nIdeologically, to justify realising the modernisation of China, Mao argued that orthodox Marxism, rooted in industrialized Europe, could not readily be adapted and applied to the agricultural societies of eastern Asia, and adapted Marxism to Chinese socio-economic conditions. In 1947, Mao sent the journalist Anna Louise Strong with documents to the West, and to \"show them to Party leaders in the United States and Europe\", but that it was not \"necessary to take them to Moscow\". Mao's trust in Strong derived from her article \"The Thought of Mao Tse-Tung\" and the book \"Dawn Comes Up Like Thunder Out of China: An Intimate Account of the Liberated Areas in China\" (1948), reporting that Mao's intellectual feat was \"to change Marxism from a European [form] to an Asiatic form ... in ways of which neither Marx nor Lenin could dream\"; the book was banned in the USSR, as anti-soviet literature.\n\nIn 1954, new Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev sought to improve the USSR's relations with China by reaching new trade agreements. He acknowledged Stalin's economic unfairness to China, arranged for the USSR to fund fifteen industrial projects in China, and also arranged mutual exchanges of technicians. Under the trade agreements, the two countries exchanged economic specialists (ca. 10,000 by 1960) and political advisors (ca. 1,500), and China sent laborers to fill the shortage of workers in Siberia. Despite this economic cooperation, Mao and Khrushchev disliked each other.\nIn the field of international relations, the PRC and the USSR strengthened their relationship through diplomacy, by encouraging Vietnamese rapprochement, by way of a peace treaty between Communist North Vietnam and non-Communist South Vietnam, in 1954. In the event, by 1955, 60 per cent of China's exports went to Russia, and Mao had begun implementation of a Chinese version of the Soviet \"Five Year Plan\".\n\nIn 1956, Sino-Soviet relations began to deteriorate when Khrushchev initiated the de–Stalinization of the USSR. In a secret speech to the 20th Congress of the CPSU, \"On the Cult of Personality and Its Consequences\", Khrushchev criticized Stalin the man and Stalin's policies — especially the \"Great Purge\" of the Communist Party, in which Stalin killed hundreds of thousands of people.\n\nKhrushchev's de–Stalinization of the Soviet Union caused a serious domestic problem for Mao, who had emulated Stalin and Stalinism in the development of Chinese Communism.\n\nFor Mao, the Hungarian Revolution of 1956 was a serious political concern, because such a revolt questioned the political legitimacy of Communist Party government. In response, the Chinese Communist Party formally denounced Khrushchev's de–Stalinization policies as ideological revisionism of Marx, and reaffirmed the ideological orthodoxy of Mao's Stalinist government — while preserving diplomatic and economic relations with the USSR; the abstractions of ideology had cracked socialist unity.\n\nMao perceived that the Soviet Union's foreign policy of peaceful coexistence with the West would isolate the PRC in every sense of geopolitics. The Hungarian revolution made Mao aware that such revolts might occur in the PRC. He sought to counter possible political discontent with the Hundred Flowers Campaign (1956) of political liberalization, which proved too successful when it featured criticism of Mao as Party Chairman and head of state. Hence, Khrushchev's political liberalization of the USSR compelled Mao to retain the Stalinist model of government for the PRC. The ideological break was assured when Khrushchev's Stalinist enemies failed to depose him, which left China and the USSR practicing different forms of Marxism, leading to ideological quarrels and enmity.\n\nDespite Khrushchev's efforts to maintain positive Sino-Soviet relations (especially with technical assistance to China's nuclear weapons program), political tensions remained strong, because the USSR's policy of peaceful coexistence threatened the PRC's geopolitical credibility, especially after failed rapprochement with the U.S. That diplomatic failure and the presence of U.S. nuclear weapons in the Republic of China (Taiwan) led Mao to a policy of confrontation with the U.S.\n\nIn 1958, the ideological differences, especially the Soviet policy of peaceful coexistence with the West, worsened Sino-Soviet relations. Notably, Mao's Great Leap Forward, a Stalinist program of instant industrialization, led to a cult of personality around Mao as the true leader of the socialist world. Mao widened the ideological divergence between the PRC and the USSR with criticism of Khrushchev's economic policies, which included foreign aid for China. To the USSR, the ideological radicalism of the PRC destabilized peaceful coexistence with the West, in response, the USSR reduced aid to China.\n\nIn July 1958, Khrushchev went to Beijing to negotiate for bases in China for Soviet submarines. Instead, Mao accused Khrushchev of trying to control the PRC's coast, and there was no deal. At the end of August, Mao tried to force the issue of PRC control of Taiwan, held by the remnant of the Republic of China (RoC). China attacked RoC-held Kinmen and the Matsu islands, beginning the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis (23 August–22 September 1958). Mao had not warned Khrushchev of the attack, which forced the USSR to re-think peaceful coexistence with the West, especially after the U.S. publicly committed to the military defense of the RoC.\n\nThe PRC's failure to warn the USSR of the attack worsened Khrushchev's relations with Mao, especially because the U.S. threatened nuclear war if the PRC invaded Taiwan. Such Chinese actions then compelled the USSR's involvement in Sino-American quarrels over a lost civil war. In that geopolitical context, Khrushchev became skeptical of Mao's mental health, fearing that his confrontational behavior might provoke a nuclear war. Khrushchev cancelled aid agreements, including delivery of Soviet nuclear weapons to the PRC. That lack of clear and candid communications from the Chinese and ideological disagreement about the Great Leap Forward had seriously damaged Sino-Soviet relations.\n\nThe events of the 1958–59 period convinced Mao that the USSR was not trustworthy. In 1959, Premier Khrushchev met with U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower (1953–1961) to decrease tensions with the West. To that end, the USSR had reneged an agreement to provide technical aid for the development of a Chicom nuclear weapon; the USSR sided with India in the Sino-Indian War (1962), by way of moderate diplomatic relations with India; each collaboration of the USSR with the West offended Mao. Thereafter, he perceived Khrushchev as too-tolerant of the West, despite the USSR sometimes confronting the Western powers. The Chinese Communist Party believed that the Communist Party of the Soviet Union concentrated too much on \"Soviet–U.S. cooperation for the domination of the world\", with actions that contradicted the ideology of Marxism–Leninism.\n\nMao had expected an aggressive response from Khrushchev about the U-2 spy plane incident (1960) over Russia. At the 1960 Paris Summit meeting, Khrushchev demanded an official apology from U.S. President Eisenhower, who refused. Mao and the CCP took Eisenhower's response as a political affront to socialist countries, and the PRC responded with political rallies demanding that Khrushchev act against the American aggressors. To the Chinese Communists, Khrushchev not responding to the U.S. with military force tarnished his image as a Communist leader. At the 1960 International Meeting of Communist and Workers Parties, in Bucharest, Mao and Khrushchev argued and each socialist attacked the other's interpretation of Marxist doctrine as the incorrect road to world socialism. Mao argued that Khrushchev's greater emphasis upon material easiness would make the people ideologically soft and un-revolutionary; Khrushchev replied, \"If we could promise the people nothing, except revolution, they would scratch their heads and say 'Isn't it better to have good goulash?' \"\n\nIn the 1950s, the Sino-Soviet split manifested itself indirectly through actions related to other Communist states. China denounced the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1945–1992) and Tito, who had pursued a non aligned foreign policy; neither pro–Russian nor pro–Chinese. The USSR criticized People's Socialist Republic of Albania and Enver Hoxha, who had refused to abandon Stalinism and had aligned with the PRC, starting the Soviet–Albanian split. Moreover, in accordance with geopolitical circumstance, the USSR provided moral support to the Tibetan rebels of the 1959 Tibetan uprising against the PRC.\n\nBy 1960, the Sino-Soviet split was manifested as open criticism, when Khrushchev and Peng Zhen openly argued at the congress of the Romanian Communist Party. Khrushchev insulted Chairman Mao as \"a nationalist, an adventurist, and a deviationist\"; Peng Zhen called Khrushchev a Marxist revisionist whose régime of the USSR showed him to be a \"patriarchal, arbitrary and tyrannical\" ruler. In the end, Premier Khrushchev denounced the People's Republic of China in an eighty-page letter to the Romanian Communist Party congress.\n\nIn June 1960, the USSR openly denounced PR Albania at the height of the de-Stalinization of the USSR. In China, Bao Sansan described the Party's message to the cadres in China, \"When Khrushchev stopped Russian aid to Albania, Hoxha said to his people: 'Even if we have to eat the roots of grass to live, we won't take anything from Russia.' China is not guilty of chauvinism and immediately sent food to our brother country.\"\n\nKhrushchev further responded to Mao's criticism by withdrawing some 1,400 technicians from the PRC, which led to cancellation of some 200 scientific joint projects intended to foster cooperation between Russia and China. To Mao, the withdrawal of Soviet technicians from China justified his accusation that Khrushchev had caused not only the PRC's great economic failures, but also had caused the famines occurred during the Great Leap Forward.\n\nAs socialist countries, the PRC and the USSR still had reason to prefer political unity. In the PRC, Chairman Mao needed to continue economic relations, to alleviate famine in China, and resolve border disputes with India. In the USSR, Premier Khrushchev had lost political ground, because of his policy of \"détente\" with the U.S. His accusations of U.S. espionage against the Eisenhower government had generated political tensions that broke USSR–US diplomacy at the Paris Summit meeting, which worsened relations between the American and Russian superpowers; and yet, the PRC remained allied to the USSR.\n\nIn November 1960, at the Congress of 81 Communist parties in Moscow, the Chinese argued about the interpretation of Marxist doctrine with the Soviets, and with most of the other socialist delegations, yet compromised in effort to avoid an ideological split among socialist nations. In October 1961, at the 22nd Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union the USSR and the PRC renewed their conflicting ideological disputes. In December 1961, the USSR broke diplomatic relations with People's Socialist Republic of Albania, which had been aligned with the PRC, escalating the ideological dispute from political-party level to the national level.\n\nWhen India annexed Goa, following demand by the Goan people, who were flabbergasted by Portugal's resistance to leaving its occupied territory in 1961, Moscow lauded the action while an unimpressed Beijing declared that \"India's apparent contribution to anti-imperialist struggle consists of taking on the world's smallest imperialist power.\"\n\nIn 1962, the PRC and the USSR broke diplomatic relations. Chairman Mao criticized Premier Khrushchev for withdrawing from the Cuban missile crisis (1962), that \"Khrushchev has moved from adventurism to capitulationism\". Khrushchev replied that Mao's confrontational policies would lead to a nuclear war. At the same time, the USSR supported India against the Chinese invasion of the Indian north east in the Sino-Indian War (1962).\n\nThe aftermath of the Cuban missile crisis placed nuclear disarmament at foremost in 20th-century geopolitics. To limit production of nuclear weapons by other nations, the USSR, the UK, and the US signed the Limited Test Ban Treaty (5 August 1963). In that time, the PRC were developing their own nuclear weapons, and Mao saw the Limited Test Ban Treaty as an attempt to slow China's becoming a nuclear superpower. He was angered by Khrushchev's failure to aggressively deal with the U.S. Premier Khrushchev's failure to confront the West led Chairman Mao to publish nine (September 1963–July 1964) letters in which he openly and specifically criticized the leadership of Nikita Khrushchev as Premier of the USSR. After the occurrence of the Sino-Soviet split, Chairman Mao turned to the countries of Asia, Africa, and Latin America to develop new and strong alliances to further the economic and ideological redevelopment of the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe governments of the PRC and the USSR supported their actions with formal ideological statements. In June 1963, the PRC published \"The Chinese Communist Party's Proposal Concerning the General Line of the International Communist Movement\", and the USSR replied with an \"Open Letter of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union\"; such were the last communications to each other, as socialists. By 1964, Chairman Mao said that a counter-revolution in the USSR had re-established capitalism; consequently, the USSR broke relations with the PRC, and the Warsaw Pact soon followed the Soviets.\n\nAfter Leonid Brezhnev deposed Premier Khrushchev in October 1964, Chinese Prime Minister Zhou Enlai went to Moscow and met with Brezhnev and Alexei Kosygin, who were the new leaders of the USSR. The meeting with the Soviet leaders went poorly, and the disappointed Zhou returned to China and reported to Chairman Mao that the Soviets remained firm in their stance, for which Mao denounced \"Khrushchevism without Khrushchev\"; Mao's dismissal continued the Sino-Soviet split.\n\nChina accused the Soviet Union of colluding with the U.S., for instance during the Glassboro Summit Conference (June 1967) between Kosygin and U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson. Radio Peking said that they discussed \"a great conspiracy on a worldwide basis . . . criminally selling the rights of the revolution of [the] Vietnam people, Arabs, as well as Asian, African, and Latin-American peoples to U.S. imperialists.\"\n\nMeanwhile, in China, Mao Zedong launched the Cultural Revolution (1966–1976) to prevent the development of the Russian-style bureaucratic communism of the USSR. The schools and universities were closed as students, following Mao's proclamations, organized themselves into Red Guard, grassroots-led units of radicals. However, this process was chaotic and violent and had no real leadership, and so over time the Red Guard divided into factions, and their subsequent violence provoked civil war in some parts of China; Mao had the Army suppress the Red Guard factions; and when factionalism occurred in the Army, Mao dispersed the Red Guard, and then began to rebuild the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nThe vast grassroots experiment that was the Cultural Revolution stressed, strained, and broke China's political relations with the USSR, and relations with the West. Nevertheless, despite the \"Maoism vs. Marxism–Leninism\" differences interpreting Marxism, Russia and China aided North Vietnam, headed by Ho Chi Minh, in fighting the Vietnam War (1945–1975), which Maoism defined as a peasant revolution against foreign imperialism. The Chinese allowed Soviet materiel across China for the North, to prosecute the war against the Republic of Vietnam, a U.S. ally. In that time, besides the Socialist People's Republic of Albania, only the Communist Party of Indonesia advocated the Maoist policy of peasant revolution.\n\nSince 1956, the Sino-Soviet ideological split, between Communist political parties, had escalated to small-scale warfare between Russia and China; thereby, in January 1967, Red Guards attacked the Soviet embassy in Beijing. Earlier, in 1966, the Chinese had revived the matter of the Russo-Chinese border that was demarcated in the 19th-century, and imposed upon the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912) monarchy by means of unequal treaties that virtually annexed Chinese territory to the Russian Empire.\n\nDespite not asking the return of territory, the Chinese did ask the USSR to formally (publicly) acknowledge that said border, established with the Treaty of Aigun (1858) and the Convention of Peking (1860), was a historic Russian injustice against China; the Soviet government ignored the matter. Then, in 1968, the Red Guard purges meant to restore doctrinal orthodoxy to China had provoked civil war in parts of the country, which Mao resolved with the People's Liberation Army suppressing the pertinent cohorts of the Red Guard; the excesses of the Red Guard and of the Cultural Revolution declined. Mao required internal political equilibrium in order to protect China from the strategic and military vulnerabilities that resulted from its political isolation from the community of nations.\n\nMeanwhile, during 1968, the Soviet Army had massed along the 4,380 km (2,738 mi.) border with China—especially at the Xinjiang frontier, in north-west China, where the Soviets might readily induce Turkic separatists to insurrection. Militarily, in 1961, the USSR had 12 divisions and 200 airplanes at that border; in 1968, there were 25 divisions, 1,200 airplanes, and 120 medium-range missiles. Although China had detonated its first nuclear weapon, the 596 Test, in October 1964, the People's Liberation Army was militarily inferior to the Red Army. \n\nBy March 1969, the Sino-Soviet border confrontation had become the Sino-Soviet border conflict, with fighting at the Ussuri River and on Damansky–Zhenbao Island; more small-scale warfare occurred at Tielieketi in August. US journalist Harrison Salisbury reported that Soviet sources hinted at a possible first strike against China's nuclear weapons testing site in the Lop Nur basin.\nUS Presidents Kennedy and Johnson had considered attempting to destroy the Chinese program before it succeeded, but the USSR had refused to cooperate. Now the U.S. warned the USSR that a nuclear attack against China would precipitate a world-wide war, and the USSR backed off. Aware of the Soviet threat, China built large-scale underground shelters, such as Beijing's Underground City, and military shelters such as the Underground Project 131 command center in Hubei, and the 816 Nuclear Military Plant in Fuling, Chongqing.\n\nAfter the Sino-Soviet border conflict (2 Mar. – 11 Sept., 1969), Soviet Prime minister Alexei Kosygin secretly went to Beijing to confer with Premier Zhou Enlai, and by October, the PRC and the USSR began determining the demarcation of their national borders. Despite not resolving the border demarcation, the meetings restored Sino-Soviet diplomatic communications, and, by 1970, Mao understood that the People's Republic of China could not simultaneously fight the USSR and the USA, whilst suppressing internal disorder. In July 1971, Nixon's National Security Adviser Henry Kissinger, went to Beijing to arrange the Nixon visit to China (February 1972). Kissinger's actions offended the USSR, who then convoked a summit meeting with President Nixon; that action re-cast the Cold War as tri-polar relation among Moscow and Washington and Beijing.\n\nConcerning the 4,380 km (2,738 mi.) Sino-Soviet border, Soviet propaganda agitated against the PRC's complaint about the unequal Treaty of Aigun (1858) and the Convention of Peking (1860), which cheated China of territory and natural resources. To that effect, in the 1972–73 period, the USSR deleted the Chinese and Manchu place-names—Iman (伊曼, Yiman), Tetyukhe (野猪河, yĕzhūhé), and Suchan—from the map of the Soviet Far East, and replaced them with the Russian place-names Dalnerechensk, Dalnegorsk, and Partizansk, respectively. To facilitate social acceptance of such cultural revision, the Soviet press misrepresented the historical presence of Chinese people—in lands gained by Tsarist Russia—which provoked Russian violence against the local Chinese populaces; moreover, politically inconvenient exhibits were removed from museums, and vandals covered with cement the Jurchen-script stele, about the Jin Dynasty, in the Khabarovsk Museum.\n\nAfter Mao Zedong broke relations with the Soviet Union in 1956, he launched a world-wide rivalry for leadership of world communism. In the countries of the PRC's sphere of influence, Mao established a network of pro–Chinese, anti–Soviet political parties and communist-front organisations that directly challenged pro–Soviet organisations.\n\nBy 1970, Sino–Soviet ideological rivalry extended to Africa and the Middle East, where the Soviet Union and China funded and supported opposed political parties, militias, and states, notably the Ogaden War (1977–1978) between Ethiopia and Somalia, the Rhodesian Bush War (1964–1979), the Zimbabwean Gukurahundi (1980–1987), the Angolan Civil War (1975–2002), the Mozambican Civil War (1977–1992), and factions of the Palestinian people. In Thailand, the pro–Chinese communist fronts were organized for revolution, but were based in the local Chinese populations, and failed to connect with the greater population.\n\nIn 1971, the failure of Project 571, an attempted \"coup d'état\" against Chairman Mao, and the death of Marshal Lin Biao, Mao's executive officer, concluded the politically radical phase of the Cultural Revolution (1966–76). Afterwards, China resumed political normality, until Mao's death (9 September 1976), and the emergence of the politically radical Gang of Four.\n\nThe re-establishment of Chinese domestic tranquility ended armed confrontation with the USSR, but it did not improve Sino-Soviet diplomatic relations because in 1973 the Soviet Army garrisons at the Russo-Chinese border were twice as large as the 1969 garrisons. That continued military threat prompted the Chinese to denounce \"Soviet social-imperialism\", by accusing the USSR of being an enemy of world revolution.\n\nAfter thwarting the 1976 \"coup d'état\" by the radical Gang of Four, who argued for ideologic orthodoxy at the expense of internal development, the Chinese Communist Party politically rehabilitated Deng Xiaoping and appointed him head of the internal modernization programs in 1977. With the reversal of Mao's policies (without politically attacking him), the politically moderate Deng's political and economic reforms began the PRC's transition from a planned economy to a semi-capitalist mixed economy, which he furthered with strengthened commercial and diplomatic relations with the West.\n\nIn 1979, on the 30th anniversary of the foundation of the PRC, the government of Deng Xiaoping denounced the Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution as a national failure; and, in the 1980s, pursued \"Realpolitik\" policies, such as \"seeking truth from facts\" and the \"Chinese road to socialism\", which withdrew the PRC from the high-level abstractions of ideology, polemic, and the Marxist revisionism of the Soviet Union; the Sino–Soviet split had lost some political importance.\n\nAfter the government of Mao Zedong, the Sino-Soviet split about ideology became useless domestic politics, but was useful geopolitics, wherein conflicted the Russian and Chinese hegemonies in the pursuit of their national interests. The initial Soviet–Chinese proxy war occurred in Indochina, in 1975, where the Communist victory of the National Liberation Front (Viet Cong) and of North Vietnam in the thirty-year Vietnam War had produced a post–colonial Indochina that featured pro-Soviet governments in Vietnam (Socialist Republic of Vietnam) and Laos (Lao People's Democratic Republic), and a pro–Chinese government in Cambodia (Democratic Kampuchea).\n\nAt first, Vietnam ignored the Khmer Rouge domestic re-organisation of Cambodia, by the Pol Pot government (1975–1979), as an internal matter, until the Khmer Rouge attacked the ethnic Vietnamese populace of Cambodia, and the border with Vietnam; the counter-attack precipitated the Cambodian–Vietnamese War (1975–1979) that deposed Pol Pot in 1978. In response, the PRC denounced the Vietnamese, and retaliated by invading northern Vietnam, in the Sino-Vietnamese War (1979); in turn, the USSR denounced the PRC's invasion of Vietnam.\n\nIn December 1979, the USSR invaded the Democratic Republic of Afghanistan to maintain the Afghan Communist government in power. The PRC viewed the Soviet invasion as a local feint, within Soviet's greater, geopolitical encirclement of China. In response, the PRC entered a tri-partite alliance with the U.S. and Pakistan to sponsor Islamist Afghan armed resistance to the Soviet Occupation (cf. Operation Storm-333). Meanwhile, the Sino-Soviet split became manifest when Deng Xiaoping, the paramount leader of China, required the removal of \"three obstacles\" so that Sino-Soviet relations might improve:\n\nIn 1981–82 period, Sino-American relations were strained by geopolitical disagreements about wars, such as the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the Falklands War. At the CCP's 12th Congress in September 1982, Deng Xiaoping revived the revisionist \"Three Worlds\" idea that characterized China as a neutral player in a world divided by conflict between the superpowers. Meanwhile, in March 1982 in Tashkent, USSR Secretary Leonid Brezhnev gave a speech conciliatory towards the PRC, and Deng took advantage of Brezhnev's proffered conciliation; in autumn of 1982, Sino-Soviet relations resumed (semi-annually) at the vice-ministerial level.\n\nWhen Brezhnev died in November 1982, a Chinese delegation, headed by Foreign Minister Huang Hua, attended the funeral, where Huang praised the late Soviet leader Brezhnev as \"an outstanding champion of world peace\" and expressed hope for normal relations with Moscow. However, Huang's actions at Brezhnev's funeral led to his dismissal from office after he returned to the PRC.\n\nThree years later, in 1985, when Mikhail Gorbachev became President of the USSR, he worked to restore political relations with the PRC; he reduced the Soviet Army garrisons at the Sino-Soviet border and in Mongolia, resumed trade, and dropped the matter of the 1969 border-demarcation dispute. Nonetheless, the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan remained unresolved, and Sino-Soviet diplomacy remained cool, which circumstance allowed the Reagan government to sell American weapons to China and so counter the geopolitics of the USSR in the Russo-American aspect of the tri-polar Cold War.\n\nDiplomatic relations between China and Afghanistan were neutral during the reign of the Afghan king; yet, when pro-Soviet Afghan communists seized power in 1978, relations between China and the Afghan communists quickly worsened and then became hostile. Although the Afghan communists supported China's enemies in Vietnam, and blamed China for supporting militant Afghan anti–Communists, China responded to the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan by supporting the Afghan Mujahidin with aid, small arms, and \"matériel\", delivered by the Pakistani military and intelligence and the CIA, and likewise increased their military presence in Xinjiang, near Afghanistan. China acquired American military equipment to defend from Soviet attack.\n\nThe Chinese People's Liberation Army trained and supported the Afghan Mujahidin during the Soviet–Afghan War. China moved training camps for the Mujahideen from Pakistan into China proper, which were supported with military advisors and soldiers; afterwards, the Mujahidin were provided anti-aircraft missiles, rocket launchers, and machine guns.\n\nThroughout the 1980s, Sino-Soviet political relations improved, by trade agreements and cultural exchanges, however ideological relations between the Communist parties of Russia and China remained unchanged, because the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) refused to accept the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU) as their Marxist equals.\n\nIn May 1989, Soviet President Gorbachev visited the People's Republic of China, where the government doubted the practical efficacy of \"perestroika\" and \"glasnost\". Since the PRC did not officially recognize the USSR as a socialist state, there was no official opinion about Gorbachev's reformation of Soviet socialism. Privately, the Chinese Communists thought that the USSR was unprepared for such political and social reforms without first reforming the economy of the USSR.\n\nThe Chinese perspective derived from how the paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, effected economic reform with a semi-capitalist mixed economy, while the political power remained with the Chinese Communist Party. Ultimately, Gorbachev's reformation of Russian society ended Soviet-Communist government and provoked the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47280185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47280185", "title": "Statue of Alexander von Humboldt (Bläser)", "text": "Statue of Alexander von Humboldt (Bläser)\n\nThe statue of Alexander von Humboldt by German sculptor Gustav Bläser is installed on Budapester Straße in Berlin-Tiergarten, Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "48524259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48524259", "title": "SubStance", "text": "SubStance\n\nSubStance: A Review of Theory and Literary Criticism is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that was established in 1971 and is published by the University of Wisconsin Press. It covers work on literature and culture, with an emphasis on French literature. The editors-in-chief are Sydney Lévy (University of California, Santa Barbara) and Michel Pierssens (Université de Montréal).\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "30670812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30670812", "title": "Sue Hamilton (archaeologist)", "text": "Sue Hamilton (archaeologist)\n\nSue Hamilton (b. ) is a British archaeologist who is a Professor of Prehistory at the Institute of Archaeology, University College London. A specialist in Later European Prehistory, she has published various papers and academic books on the subject based upon her own research.\n\nA director of the Bodmin Moor Landscape Project from 1995 to 2000, she focused on studying the Neolithic and Bronze Age aspects of the moor's landscape. Working alongside Christopher Tilley and Barbara Bender, they later produced a book documenting their work, \"Stone Worlds: Narrative and Reflexive in Landscape Archaeology\" (2006).\n\nFrom 2006 onwards, Hamilton has co-directed the Rapa Nui Landscapes (Easter Island) of Construction Project, in which she looks at the Easter Island statues. In doing so, she and Professor Colin Richards of the University of Manchester became \"the first British archaeologists to work on the island since 1914.\"\n\nSue Hamilton became the first female Director of the UCL Institute of Archaeology on 1 September 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "599971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599971", "title": "Tanais", "text": "Tanais\n\nTanais ( \"Tánaïs\"; ) was an ancient Greek city in the Don river delta, called the Maeotian marshes in classical antiquity. It was a bishopric as Tana and remains a Latin Catholic titular see as Tanais.\n\nThe delta reaches into the northeasternmost part of the Sea of Azov, which the Ancient Greeks called Lake Maeotis. The site of ancient Tanais is about 30 km west of modern Rostov-on-Don. The central city site lies on a plateau with a difference up to 20 m in elevation in the south. It is bordered by a natural valley to the east, and an artificial ditch to the west.\n\nThe site of Tanais was occupied long before the Milesians founded an emporium there. A necropolis of over 300 burial kurgans near the ancient city shows that the site had already been occupied since the Bronze Age, and that kurgan burials continued through Greek and into even Roman times.\nGreek traders seem to have been meeting nomads in the district as early as the 7th century BC without a formal, permanent settlement. Greek colonies had two kinds of origins, \"apoikiai\" of citizens from the mother city-state, and \"emporia\", which were strictly trading stations. Founded late in the 3rd century BC, by merchant adventurers from Miletus, Tanais quickly developed into an \"emporium\" at the farthest northeastern extension of the Hellenic cultural sphere. It was a natural post, first for the trade of the steppes reaching away eastwards in an unbroken grass sea to the Altai, the Scythian Holy Land, second for the trade of the Black Sea, ringed with Greek-dominated ports and entrepots, and third for trade from the impenetrable north, with furs and slaves brought down the Don. Strabo mentions Tanais in his \"Geography\" (11.2.2).\n\nThe site for the city, ruled by an archon, was at the eastern edge of the territory of the kings of Bosporus. A major shift in social emphasis is represented in the archaeological site when the propylea gate that linked the port section with the agora was removed, and the open center of public life was occupied by a palatial dwelling in Roman times for the kings of Bosporus. For the first time there were client kings at Tanais: Sauromates (AD 175-211) and his son Rescuporides (c. AD 220), who both left public inscriptions.\n\nIn AD 330 Tanais was devastated by the Goths, but the site was occupied continuously up to the second half of the 5th century AD. Increasingly, the channel silted up, probably the result of deforestation, and the center of active life shifted, perhaps to the small city of Azov, halfway to Rostov.\n\nThe city was refounded around the 13th century by the Venetians. Later it was acquired by the maritime Republic of Genoa, who administered it 1332-1471 as Tana nel Mare Maggiore, being an important place for trade with the Golden Horde, like all their Black Sea colonies controlled by the Genoese Consul at Kaffa. It decayed again after 1368. In 1392 it was conquered by Timur, by the Ottoman Turks in 1471, by the Russians in 1696, again by the Turks in 1711 and by the Russian Empire in 1771.\n\nCirca 1300, under Venetian rule, was established a Diocese of Tana as territory not previously served, maintained under Genua. Most bishops were members of two major and missionary orders. It was exempt, i.e. directly subject to the Holy See, not part of any ecclesiastical province.\n\nIn 1471, under Ottoman Muslim control, the bishopric was suppressed.\n\n\nIn 1925 the diocese was nominally restored as Latin titular bishopric of Tana, which from 1929 was called Tanais (exclusively from 1942).\n\nIt is vacant, having had the following near-consecutive incumbents, all of the fitting episcopal (lowest) rank :\n\n\nIn 1823, I.A. Stempkovsky first made a connection between the visible archaeological remains, which were mostly Roman in date, and the \"Tanais\" mentioned in the ancient Greek sources.\n\nSystematic modern excavations began in 1955. A joint Russian-German team has recently been excavating at the site of Tanais, with the aim of revealing the heart of the city, the agora, and defining the extent of Hellenistic influence on the urbanism of the Bosporan Greek city, as well as studying defensive responses to the surrounding nomadic cultures.\n\nIn the book \"Jakten på Odin\", author Thor Heyerdahl advanced a highly controversial idea postulating connections between Tanais and ancient Scandinavia. In preparation of the book, he conducted some archaeological research on the site of Tanais. Heyerdal`s idea was based on the old Norse sagas of Snorri Sturlason. (1178 - 1241)\n\n9 Y-chromosome markers were obtained from a skeleton. The result was 389I=13, 389II=30, 458=15, 385=11, 393=13, 391=11, 635=23, 437=14, 448=19. This result is characteristic for haplogroup R1a.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44020572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44020572", "title": "Thomas Alwyn Lloyd", "text": "Thomas Alwyn Lloyd\n\nThomas Alwyn Lloyd (11 August 1881 – 19 June 1960), known as \"T. Alwyn Lloyd\", was a leading Welsh architect and town planner. He was one of the founders of the Town Planning Institute in 1914 and its President in 1933. He was also a founding member of the Council for the Protection of Rural Wales in 1928 and served as its chairman from 1947 to 1959. Meic Stephens described Lloyd's work as follows:\n\nThomas Alwyn Lloyd was born in Liverpool, the son of Thomas and Elizabeth Jones Lloyd, from Denbighshire. He was educated at Liverpool College and studied and Liverpool School of Architecture in the University of Liverpool. Between 1907 and 1912 he was an assistant to Sir Raymond Unwin in the Hampstead Garden Suburb. In 1913 he was appointed consulting architect to the Welsh Town Planning and Housing Trust. He also undertook work for the National Coal Board and Forestry Commission in Wales. In 1948 he entered into partnership with Alex Gordon forming \"T. Alwyn Lloyd and Gordon.\".\n\nHe married Ethel Roberts in 1914.\n\nIn about 1920 he designed his own home in Rhiwbina Garden Village, Cardiff. This is now a listed building.\n\nHe died on holiday in Torquay on 19 June 1960.\n\n\n\nDates unknown:\n\n\n\nAwarded at the Welsh National Eisteddfod for a building that cost less than £750,000, and has been completed in the past three years. Endowed by Lloyd in 1954.\n\nAwarded by the Welsh School of Architecture to the top four students in the final year of the Part 1.\n\nAwarded by the Welsh School of Architecture for the best overall performance in the 2 examination.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "969799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969799", "title": "Thomas Capano", "text": "Thomas Capano\n\nThomas Joseph Capano (October 11, 1949 – September 19, 2011) was a disbarred American lawyer and former Delaware deputy attorney general who was convicted of the 1996 murder of Anne Marie Fahey, his former lover.\n\nCapano was one of four brothers, and belonged to a prominent family of Delaware real estate developers and building contractors. He became a wealthy, well-connected lawyer, state prosecutor, Wilmington city attorney, legal counsel to Governor Mike Castle, and political consultant, well known in Delaware's political community. In 1994, Capano was a partner at the Wilmington office of Saul Ewing LLP when he became involved with 28-year-old Anne Marie Fahey, the appointments secretary to then-Governor Tom Carper. Married with four daughters, Thomas Capano separated from his wife Kay the following year.\n\nAnne Marie Fahey, the scheduling secretary for Governor Carper, became involved with the married Capano in 1994. In September 1995, while still involved with Capano, Fahey began a relationship with Michael Scanlan.\n\nShe was last seen alive on Thursday, June 27, 1996, when she went to dinner with Capano in Philadelphia. Fahey's family reported her missing on June 30, 1996. After an extensive investigation into her disappearance, the FBI joined in the investigation in July 1996, and a federal grand jury heard evidence for over a year. Capano, the last known person to have seen her alive, was the primary suspect. Capano was arrested for her murder in November 1997, over sixteen months after her disappearance. However, Fahey's body was never found, and prosecutors were unable to establish the cause or manner of Fahey's death.\n\nProsecutors alleged that Capano murdered Fahey at the house he rented and, with the assistance of his brother, Gerry, dumped her body in the Atlantic Ocean. Gerry Capano owned a boat and, when it was sold, its two anchors were missing. On November 8, 1997, Gerry was interviewed by detectives and told them that Thomas had borrowed the boat and admitted that he had murdered someone who was attempting to extort him. They went to Stone Harbor, New Jersey, with a large cooler that contained Fahey's body, sailed out to sea, and pushed the cooler overboard. Gerry told police that Thomas shot the cooler in order to sink it, but that the cooler remained afloat in the water. Thomas then retrieved the cooler, removed the body, and wrapped the anchor chains around it. Thomas also asked Gerry to help dispose of a blood-stained sofa and carpet into a dumpster, which was managed by a third brother, Louis. Thomas instructed Louis to empty the dumpsters outside of their regular schedule. The empty cooler was found on July 4, 1996, by a local fisherman.\n\nInvestigators did not have a murder weapon or a body, nor any evidence that Capano had purchased a gun. However, Capano's mistress Debby MacIntyre had bought a gun and, when questioned by investigators, admitted to supplying the weapon to Capano.\n\nThe highly publicized case went to trial on October 26, 1998, and lasted 12 weeks. The defense claimed that MacIntyre had burst into Capano's room and, in a jealous rage upon seeing Capano and Fahey engaged in intimacy, had threatened to shoot herself; as Capano and MacIntyre were wrestling for the gun, it fired, killing Fahey. On January 17, 1999, the jury convicted Capano of first-degree murder and he was sentenced to death by lethal injection.\n\nIn January 2006, the Delaware Supreme Court affirmed Capano's conviction but remanded the case for sentencing because the death penalty was imposed by a non-unanimous jury verdict. In February of that year, the state abandoned its efforts to seek capital punishment, opting to leave Capano imprisoned for life without parole. In April 2008, the U.S. District Court rejected Capano's habeas corpus petition, and on September 2, 2008, the U.S. 3rd Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. Capano did not appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court, bringing an end to his appeals.\n\nCapano, aged 61, was found dead in his jail cell at 12:34 p.m. on September 19, 2011 by an officer performing a routine security check at the James T. Vaughn Correctional Center state prison near Smyrna, Delaware. The medical examiner said Capano died of sudden cardiac arrest. He also had \"atherosclerotic and hypertensive cardiovascular disease, and that obesity was a contributing factor in his death\". Following his death, his brothers Louis and Joseph engaged in a bitter court fight over their family's multimillion-dollar real estate empire.\n\nSeveral books were written about the case including \"And Never Let Her Go: Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer\" by Ann Rule, \"The Summer Wind: Thomas Capano and the Murder of Anne Marie Fahey\" by George Anastasia, and \"Fatal Embrace: The Inside Story of the Thomas Capano/Anne Marie Fahey Murder Case\" by Chris Barrish and Peter Meyer. In 2001, a television movie based on Rule's book was made, \"And Never Let Her Go\", starring Mark Harmon as Capano and Kathryn Morris as Fahey. \n\nA 2000 episode of \"The FBI Files\", title \"Deadly Obsession,\" and a July 22, 2002 episode of the CBS News documentary program \"48 Hours\" featured the case. In 2012, the story was featured on \"Behind Mansion Walls\". The case was portrayed in Law and Order season 11 in an episode titled \"Ego\". The case was also portrayed in the Season 1, Third Episode of the NBC series Boomtown (Oct. 13, 2002).\n\n"}
{"id": "34382635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34382635", "title": "Ulrike Guérot", "text": "Ulrike Guérot\n\nUlrike Beate Guérot (born 1964 in Grevenbroich, Germany) is a Berlin-based German political thinker and Founder and Director of the European Democracy Lab (EDL), a think tank dedicated to the future of European democracy. The „Mission Statement“ of the European Democracy Lab is the realization of a political entity in Europe based on the general principle of political equality and the development of a European parliamentarism that corresponds to the idea of division of power. In April 2016, Danube University Krems appointed Ulrike Guérot as Professor for European Policy and the Study of Democracy. She is the head of the Department for European Policy and the Study of Democracy.\n\nGuérot studied Political Sciences, history and philosophy and got her PhD from University of Münster, Germany, in 1995 with a dissertation on the French Socialist Party and Europe.\n\nFrom 1992 to 1995, Guérot worked in Bonn as a parliamentary assistant in the office of Karl Lamers, MP, by then spokesperson of the German Christian Democratic Party for foreign affairs. In this period, she contributed to the so-called “Schäuble-Lamers” paper on core-Europe of 1994. In 1995, she moved to Paris and worked first as a Director of Communication for the Association for the Monetary Union of Europe (AMUE); and then as Chargée de Mission for the Paris-based Think Tank “Notre Europe”, under the auspices of former President of the EU Commission, Jacques Delors. Then she moved to the US and served from 1998 to 2000 as Assistant Professor at the Paul H. Nitze School for Advanced International Studies in the Department for European Studies of Johns Hopkins University, in Washington, D.C.\n\nAfter her return to Berlin in 2000, Guérot took over the European Studies Unit at the German Council on Foreign Relations (DGAP) until 2003 and then moved as Foreign Policy Director to the Berlin office of the German Marshall Fund (GMF).\n\nFrom 2007 onwards, Guérot opened and built up the Berlin office of the European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR) and served until 2013 as its first Director. During this time, Ulrike Guérot focused in her numerous publications on various aspects of European integration policies, the process of European constitutionalization and European foreign policy, especially on Franco-German and transatlantic relations. During this time, she established the program “Germany in Europe” at the ECFR, analyzing the shifts of the German role in the European Union. Within this program, she published two books, firstly “\"What\" \"does\" \"Germany\" \"think\" \"about\" \"Europe\"?” (Ed. together with Jacqueline Hénard) in 2011; and secondly “\"Germany\" \"in\" \"Europe\": \"A\" \"Blog\" \"Chronicle\" \"of\" \"the\" \"Euro-crisis\"” in 2013.\n\nIn Spring 2012, Guérot was Visiting Scholar at the German House of New York University (NYU) and in Fall 2014, she had a guest status at the WZB Berlin Social Science Center.\n\nIn September 2014, she founded, together with Victoria Kupsch, the European Democracy Lab (EDL), which is attached to the European School of Governance (eusg), Berlin, in order to focus on the future of European Democracy post-euro crisis. The core idea of the Lab is the development of a \"Res\" \"Publica\" \"Europeae\", a political entity of Europe as a Republic. On this, Ulrike Guérot has widely published, most recently in the annual edition 2014 of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences. Ulrike Guérot has sketched out her idea of Europe as a Republic in a speech at the Berlin conference Re:Publica . In the meantime, an English and a Spanish version of this speech have been published on http://www.opendemocracy.net and on http://www.eurozine.com. An Italian and French version are in preparation. The idea of Europe as a Republic was also republished at the Digital Bauhaus Conference for societal design in Weimar 2015 and represented at the Summer Academy 2015 of the respected American Chautauqua Institute.\n\nIn April 2013, Ulrike Guérot and Austrian novelist Robert Menasse published a \"Manifesto for a European Republic“ in which they draw attention to the current tensions and developments of the European Union . Consequently, in this paper they call for the foundation of a European Republic. \nThe Manifesto has been tied to an appeal for a new Europe (#newEurope),[10] which so far has been signed by a variety of European academics, intellectuals, artists and policy makers, such as French star economist Thomas Piketty, Club-of Rome member Ernst Ulrich von Weizsäcker or professor Gesine Schwan.\nSimultaneously, Guérot worked with German conceptual artist Valeska Peschke to develop the project „Amikejo“. This artistic interpretation of Europe aims to focus on the idea of European friendship.\nSince April 2016 Ulrike Guérot heads the Department for European Policy and the Study of Democracy at Donauuniversität Krems. Her first book, „Why Europe needs to become a Republic! A political utopy“ was published in the same month by .\nIn May 2017 her second book „A new civil war: The open Europe and its enemies“ will be published by .\n\nGuérot has widely published on European, transatlantic and international affairs in German and European newspapers and she is frequently invited to comment in European media on a range of issues. For her engagement with respect to European integration, she was awarded in 2003 with the French cross of honor, \"‘L’Ordre national du Mérite’\". In the recent debate on a Greek exit of the Eurozone, she has strongly engaged publicly against a Grexit.\n\nIn autumn 2013, Guérot was part of the official delegation of the German Federal President Joachim Gauck on his state visit to France.\n\nGuérot is further teaching classes at Viadrina European University in Frankfurt/ Oder and Bucerius Law School in Hamburg. She is an honorary board member of the European Professional Group of the Berlin Europa-Union Deutschland.\n\nAlong with Sebastian Dullien, Guérot has emerged as a critic of ordoliberalism and its role in the Eurozone crisis. Writing in 2012, the authors assert how ordoliberalism is central to the German approach to euro crisis resolution, which has often led to conflicts with other European countries.\n\n\nGuérot has two grown up sons. She is divorced from the French Diplomat Olivier Guérot. She is disciple of the international Jivamukti Yoga movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "904311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=904311", "title": "Vernon Louis Parrington", "text": "Vernon Louis Parrington\n\nVernon Louis Parrington (August 3, 1871 – June 16, 1929) was an American literary historian and scholar. His three-volume history of American letters, \"Main Currents in American Thought\", won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 1928 and was one of the most influential books for American historians of its time.\n\nBorn in Aurora, Illinois, to a Republican family that soon moved to Emporia, Kansas, Parrington attended College of Emporia and Harvard College (BA 1893). He did not undertake graduate study. He was appalled by the hardships of Kansas farmers in the 1890s, and began moving left. After teaching English at College of Emporia he moved to the University of Oklahoma in 1897, where he taught British literature, organized the department of English, coached the football team, played on the baseball team, edited the campus newspaper, and tried to beautify the campus. He published little and in 1908 he was fired due to pressures from religious groups who wanted all \"immoral faculty\" fired. From there he went on to a distinguished academic career at the University of Washington.\n\nParrington moved to the much friendlier University of Washington in Seattle in 1908. He recalled in 1918, \"With every passing year my radicalism draws fresh nourishment from large knowledge of the evils of private capitalism. Hatred of that selfish system is become the chief passion of my life. The change from Oklahoma to Washington marks the shift with me from the older cultural interpretation of life to the later economic.\"\n\nParrington founded the interdisciplinary American Studies movement with his 1927 work \"Main Currents in American Thought\". The movement was expanded in the 1920s and 1930s by Perry Miller, F. O. Matthiessen, and Robert Spiller. The elements that these pioneers considered revolutionary were interdisciplinarity, a holistic culture concept, and a focus on the uniqueness of American culture.\n\nFrom the introduction to \"Main Currents of American Thought\":\n\n\"I have undertaken to give some account of the genesis and development in American letters of certain germinal ideas that have come to be reckoned traditionally American—how they came into being here, how they were opposed, and what influence they have exerted in determining the form and scope of our characteristic ideals and institutions. In pursuing such a task, I have chosen to follow the broad path of our political, economic, and social development, rather than the narrower belletristic.\"\n\nParrington is best remembered as the author of \"Main Currents in American Thought\" (1927), a politics-centered 3-volume history of American letters from colonial times that won the 1928 Pulitzer Prize for History, which postulates a sharp divide between the elitist Hamiltonian current and its populist Jeffersonian opponents, making clear his identification with the latter.\n\nParrington defined the three phases of U.S. history as Calvinistic pessimism, romantic optimism, and mechanistic pessimism, with democratic idealism as the main driving force.\n\nParrington defended the doctrine of state sovereignty, and sought to disassociate it from the cause of slavery, claiming that the association of those two causes had proven \"disastrous to American democracy,\" removing the last brake on the growth of corporate power in the Gilded Age as the federal government began shielding capitalists from local and state regulation.\n\nFor two decades \"Main Currents in American Thought\" was one of the most influential books for American historians. Reising (1989) shows the book dominated literary and cultural criticism from 1927 through the early 1950s. Crowe (1977) calls it \"the \"Summa Theologica of Progressive history.\" Progressive history was a set of related assumptions and attitudes, which inspired the first great flowering of professional American scholarship in history. These historians saw economic and geographical forces as primary, and saw ideas as merely instruments. They regarded many dominant concepts and interpretations as masks for deeper realities.\n\nReinitz (1977) stresses Parrington's heavy use of historical irony, which occurs when the consequences of an action emerge contrary to the original intentions of the actors. Parrington represented the Progressive School of historians which stressed the duality of good versus evil in the American past. Yet, in his final volume of \"Main Currents\" he concluded that the Jeffersonian farmer, the Progressives' traditional democratic hero, had joined forces with the greedy business community to produce a destructive form of capitalism which culminated in the 1920s.\n\nHis progressive interpretation of American history was highly influential in the 1920s and 1930s and helped define modern liberalism in the United States. After receiving overwhelming praise and exerting enormous influence among intellectuals in the 1930s and 1940s, Parrington's ideas fell out of fashion before 1950. Richard Hofstadter says \"the most striking thing about the reputation of V L Parrington, as we think of it today, is its abrupt decline...during the 1940s Parrington rather quickly cease to have a compelling interest for students of American literature, and in time historians too began to desert him.\" Hofstadter shows how Parrington's ideas came under heavy assault in the 1940s and 1950s, naming Lionel Trilling as especially influential in the attack. Harold Bloom says: \"Parrington was, in turn, condemned to obscurity by critics like Lionel Trilling, who sharply criticized his literary nationalism and his insistence that literature should appeal to a popular constituency.\" Liberal historian Arthur Schlesinger, Jr., in his autobiography, says that the progressive histories of the 1920s such as \"Main Currents,\" \"are little read and their authors largely forgotten.\" He adds that, \"\"Main Currents\" impoverished the rich and complex American past. Parrington reduced Jonathan Edwards, Poe, Hawthorne, Melville, Henry James to marginal figures, practitioners of belles lettres, not illuminators of the American experience.\"\n\nParrington was the second head coach of the University of Oklahoma football team, where he was the first OU faculty member to officially hold the position. He is credited with bringing a Harvard style of play and better organization to the OU football program. During his four-year stretch from 1897 to 1900 Parrington's teams played only twelve games, with 9 wins, 2 losses and 1 tie. Parrington's span as head football coach was the longest of any of Oklahoma's first 5 coaches.\n\nThe Parrington Oval at the University of Oklahoma and Parrington Hall at the University of Washington are named for Vernon Louis Parrington.\n\nHall finds that in the 1940s and 1950s English professors dropped Parrington's approach in favor of the \"New Criticism\" and focused on the texts themselves rather than the social, economic, and political contexts that intrigued Parrington. Meanwhile, historians shifted to a consensus model of the past that considered Parrington's dialectical polarity between liberal and conservative to be naive. During the 1950s the book lost its popularity, and was largely ignored by scholars. While dismissing its thesis, some commentators were still captivated by Parrington's politically committed writing style, as historian David W. Levy noted:\n\n\n\n"}
