{"id": "1704517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1704517", "title": "Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality", "text": "Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality\n\nThe Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ; pronounced \"ark\" by initiates and often \"A-H-R-Q\" by the public) is 1 of 12 agencies within the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). The agency is headquartered in Rockville, MD, a suburb of Washington, D.C. It was established as the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR) as a constituent unit of the Public Health Service (PHS) under the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1989 (103 Stat. 2159), December 19, 1989, to enhance the quality, appropriateness, and effectiveness of health care services and access to care by conducting and supporting research, demonstration projects, and evaluations; developing guidelines; and disseminating information on health care services and delivery systems.\n\nHowever, AHCPR became controversial when it produced several guidelines that some thought would reduce medical drugs and procedures. This included concern from ophthalmologists on a cataract guideline and concern by the pharmaceutical industry over a reduction in the use of new drugs. When the agency produced a guideline that concluded that back pain surgery was unnecessary and potentially harmful, a lobbying campaign aided by Congressmen whose backs had been operated on changed the name of the agency and scaled back the guidelines program, which now exists as the National Guideline Clearinghouse. AHCPR was reauthorized December 6, 1999, for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) under the Healthcare Research and Quality Act of 1999, which amended Title IX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 299 et seq).\n\nDuring its early years, the Agency for Healthcare Policy and RESEARCH implemented large multidisciplinary, multi-institutional projects that focused on patient results in certain medical conditions in an effort to improve clinical practice. This has included basic health IT research, patient safety research on wrong site surgery, medical teamwork, and hospital acquired conditions such as MRSA and VRE.\n\nThe Trump administration proposes to merge the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality with the National Institutes of Health. The President's FY 2018 Request to Congress for the Agency was for $378.5 million.\n\nThe 2015 budget for AHRQ is US$440 million, $24 million less than FY 2014. Within this total, the budget includes $334 million in Public Health Service (PHS) Evaluation Funds, a decrease of $30 million from FY 2014, and $106 million from the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Trust Fund, an increase of $13 million above FY 2014.\n\nThe FY 2015 budget is intended to ensure the Agency continues its progress on health services research to improve outcomes, affordability, and quality. The budget also supports the collection of information on health care spending and use through the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) and Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS).\n\nThe FY 2015 budget provides $73 million, an increase of $1 million from FY 2014, for AHRQ's patient safety research and dissemination projects that prevent, mitigate, and decrease the number of medical errors, patient safety risks and hazards, and quality gaps. \nThe budget includes $23 million, a $6 million decrease from FY 2014, for health information technology (health IT) research, and the development and dissemination of evidence and evidence-based tools to inform policy and practice on how health IT can improve the quality of American health care. In FY 2015, AHRQ will provide $20 million to support 40 grants for foundational health IT research to inform and support the meaningful use of health IT.\n\nIn July 2018, the National Guideline Clearinghouse (NGC) and the National Quality Measures Clearinghouse (NQMC), two longtime online resources from the AHRQ, were shut down because federal funding ceased to be available to them. Other stakeholders were exploring options for hosting the NGC ]; should that happen, it will return to the web.\n\nGopal Khanna, MBA was appointed as Agency director on May 9, 2017. Prior to that, Dr. Andrew Bindman was the director of AHRQ from April 2016 until January 2017. Prior to joining AHRQ, Dr. Bindman served as faculty of UCSF School of Medicine. Sharon Arnold Ph.D. was acting director from February - April 2016, replacing Richard Kronick in February 2016. Richard Kronick, Ph.D. was director from 2013 to March 2016. Carolyn Clancy M.D. was the director from 2002- 2014.\n\nThe Agency has multiple offices and centers including the Center for Evidence and Practice Improvement (CEPI), the Center for Financing, Access and Trends, the Center for Delivery, Organization and Markets, the Center for Quality and Patient Safety, the Office of Management Services, the Office of Extramural Research and Priority Populations, and the Office of Communications. The Office of Communications was previously known as the Office of Communications and Knowledge Transfer.\n\nWithin CEPI, the Evidence-Based Practice Centers (EPCs) develop evidence reports and technology assessments on topics relevant to clinical and other health care organization and delivery issues—specifically those that are common, expensive, and/or significant for the Medicare and Medicaid populations. With this program, AHRQ serves as a \"science partner\" with private and public organizations in their efforts to improve the quality, effectiveness, and appropriateness of health care by synthesizing the evidence and facilitating the translation of evidence-based research findings. Topics are nominated by Federal and non-Federal partners such as professional societies, health plans, insurers, employers, and patient groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "57974157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57974157", "title": "Alan Berman", "text": "Alan Berman\n\nAlan Lee Berman (born October 7, 1943) also known as Lanny Berman, is an American psychologist, psychotherapist, and suicidologist. He is an Adjunct Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. Berman was formerly the Executive Director of the American Association of Suicidology. He is a fellow of the American Psychological Association. Berman has a private practice in psychological and forensic consultation. \n\nBerman earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Johns Hopkins University and a Doctor of Philosophy from Catholic University of America. His 1970 dissertation was titled \"The Effect Of Videotape Self-Confrontation On Level Of Ego Functioning And Thought Disturbance In Non-Paranoid, Process Schizophrenics\".\n\nBerman worked at American University from 1969 to 1991, eventually becoming a tenured full professor. He served as the president of the American Association of Suicidology from 1984 to 1985. After 1991, he became a Distinguished Adjunct Professor at American University. The same year, he was named the director of the National Center for the Study and Prevention of Suicide at the Washington School of Psychiatry. In January 1995, Berman became the Executive Director of the American Association of Suicidology. He retired from that position on July 1, 2014. In 2009 and 2011, he was elected the president of the International Association for Suicide Prevention. Berman is an Adjunct Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.\n\nBerman is a Diplomate in Clinical Psychology from the American Board of Professional Psychology. He is a fellow of the American Psychological Association and the International Academy of Suicide Research. Berman was the doctoral advisor of Michael Hendricks. Berman has a private practice in psychological and forensic consultation in Chevy Chase, Maryland.\n\nIn 1982, Berman received the Shneidman Award for Outstanding Contributions in Research in Suicidology. In 2006, he received the Louis I. Dublin Award for service and contributions to the field of suicide prevention.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33289263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33289263", "title": "All-on-4", "text": "All-on-4\n\nThe term All-on-4 refers to \"all\" teeth being supported \"on four\" dental implants, a surgical and technique prosthodontics procedure for total rehabilitation of the edentulous patient or for patients with badly broken down teeth, decayed teeth or compromised teeth due to gum disease. It consists of the rehabilitation of either edentulous or dentate maxilla and/or mandible with fixed prosthesis by placing four implants in the anterior maxilla, where bone density is higher. The four implants support a fixed prosthesis with 10 to 14 teeth and it is placed immediately, typically within 24 hours of surgery.\n\nImplant manufacturer Nobel Biocare was among the first to identify the evolution of the All-on-4 technique as a potential valid and cost-effective alternative to conventional implant techniques, and funded studies by Portuguese dentist Paulo Maló to determine the efficacy of this approach. During this time this technique was also used by various other clinicians around the world.\n\nAll-on-4 is not an invention, but rather a treatment technique that has evolved over time and has the following features:\n\nThe concept itself of the total rehabilitation of a full set of teeth supported by as few as four fixtures was not a new one. Professor P-I Branemark, who discovered osseointegration, published numerous articles in the 1970s with successful rehabilitation of a full arch supported by this number of fixtures. However, it was the angulation of the back implants that led to today's All-on-4, and has been trialed by numerous clinicians simultaneously in the United States, Sweden, Portugal, and South America in the 1990s. The technique evolved when in an attempt to avoid certain anatomical limitations typically seen in the back of the upper and lower jaws have, clinicians successfully avoided bone-deficient areas with the use of angulated implants. Anatomical limitations are more prevalent in patients with full dentures, and once the back implants are placed at an angle there is often only enough room left for two more implants in the front. This has led to the use of only four fixtures to support a full set of teeth.\n\nThe benefits of All-on-4 implants include:\nThe All-on-4 treatment concept is a prosthodontic procedure (i.e. replacement of missing teeth) that provides a permanent, screw-retained, same-day replacement for the entire upper and / or lower set of teeth with a bridge or denture. The procedure is best for patients with significant tooth loss or decay and for people whose bone loss in the jaw area prevents them from getting conventionally oriented (vertical) dental implants. Often, tooth loss is accompanied by loss of the jaw bone which poses the problem of reconstruction of the jaw bone requiring bone grafting. The All-on-Four technique takes advantage of the dense bone that remains in the front part of the jaws and by placing the two posterior implants on an angle to avoid the sinus cavities in the upper jaw and the nerve canal in the lower jaw. For the implementation to be successful a careful analysis of the bone structure needs to be made. The most ideal way to evaluate the bone is by a CBCT scan. The All-on-4 protocol is for at least four implants to be placed in a jaw. The back implants are typically angled approximately 30 to 45 degrees from the biting plane. The implant is placed in front of the maxillary sinus in the upper jaw (maxilla) and in front of the mental nerve in the lower jaw (mandible). The head of the implant emerges in approximately the second premolar position. This will allow a molar tooth to be cantilevered posterior resulting in a denture or bridge with approximately 12 teeth. \n\nThe All-on-4 treatment concept owes its name to the very nature of the method, which consists of applying a dental prosthesis with at least twelve teeth (bridge) fixed in the jaw, based only on four titanium implants.\n\nThere is no patent for the All-on-4 technique.\n\nThe price may vary for each country or region, and normally it is divided in two phases. The usual price in the United States is described below:\n\n\nIn Europe the price of all-on-4 treatment varies by country. In the UK the cost is comparable to US, and the price is about US$15,000 per jaw. In Germany the price may reach US$12,000. The cheapest option for having all on 4 are eastern European countries. For example, in Poland or Hungary the treatment costs around US$6000–7000 per jaw, dependent on materials and type of restoration.\n\nThe total price (if both upper jaw and lower jaw are considered) could possibly reach US$70,000–80,000. It is important to note that when this treatment is completed by a single doctor, the treatment fees are much lower when compared to a team approach with two doctors, where both would charge separate fees, potentially increasing the cost of the treatment. Clinics with suitable facilities, which are able to offer the entire treatment in one place, and who do these procedures regularly, are typically the most cost-effective.\n\n"}
{"id": "48301403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48301403", "title": "Aman Foundation", "text": "Aman Foundation\n\nThe Aman Foundation is a not for profit trust, based in Karachi, Pakistan. In 2015, under the \"Shajar-e-Aman\" plantation drive the Aman Foundation planted 2,000 local trees, and 200 flowers at the Hill Park, Karachi. In 2016, the Aman Foundation, in collaboration with the Edhi Foundation initiated the annual Edhi Award for Pre-hospital Care.\n\nThe Aman Foundation has developed a complete healthcare eco-system, targeting important healthcare matters. Aman Health established heat relief camps in Karachi during the 2015 Pakistan heat wave.\n\nAman Health’s flagship initiative, Aman Ambulance, has changed the landscape of emergency care in Pakistan and is the first state-of-the-art ambulatory vehicle network providing round-the-clock emergency care in the province of Sindh. However seemed unable to provide assistance in the case of a 10 year old girl shot in the head by a bullet, leading to her unfortunate death.\n\nWith a fleet of 60 ambulances, the service includes 227 Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs), 16 doctors and life-saving drugs and equipment, providing 24/7 emergency medical interventions with an average response of 12 minutes.\n\nThe Aman Ambulance also holds the recognition of being awarded the ‘Best In Asia’ EMS Service Award, in 2014, by The Asian Emergency Council.\n\nAman Ambulance is run on international protocols, equipped with the latest medical equipment and life-saving drugs and is staffed with trained medical professionals. The service provides a tiered emergency response system with Basic Life Support Ambulances and Advanced Life Support Ambulances equipped with AED machines and cardiac monitors. In addition, Advanced Cardiac Life Support Ambulances are equipped with ECG machines, which is a unique service available in Karachi.\n\nThe Aman Community Health Program (ACHP) disseminates basic preventive healthcare information through community members to reduce the incidence of disease and death in Karachi’s most affected population. The ACHP consists of a mobile field force of hundreds of women trained to initiate inquiries and follow-ups on health issues that are common in their local communities. These include maternal and neo-natal care, malaria, acute infections and addictions. This program empowers underprivileged citizens, especially women, to participate in community welfare activities and increase their access to medical attention for key healthcare issues.\n\nMASHAL, the which means torch in the Urdu Language, also stands for ‘Mental and Social Health Advocacy and Literacy’. It is the Mental Health Initiative launched under The Aman Foundation.\n\nSUKH concentrates on maternal and child health. The program was initiated to increase the Modern Contraceptive Prevalence Rate (MCPR) while at the same time ensuring sustainability. It mainly focuses on increasing the demand for Family Planning services and enhancing the quality of services that the facility provides.\n\nThe Sukh Initiative emerged from commitments made between Aman Foundation, David and Lucile Packard Foundation and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, after the 2012 London Summit on family planning.\n\nConsidering the unaffordability of healthcare service for a large majority of the Pakistani population, AMAN TELEHEALTH service was initiated to offer consultations, advice and triage for the most common illnesses over the phone. Besides dealing with common physical ailments, AMAN TELEHEALTH also offers mental health advice via a Mental Health Counsellor. This service especially targets women by offering them a platform via which they can seek medical advice and counseling without leaving their homes.\n\nAman Tech is a vocational training institute established in 2011. The institute is providing skills, knowledge, hands-on training and soft skills to the youth which allows them to exploit employment opportunities locally and abroad. AmanTech offers courses in 15 trades and to maintain its quality standards it has partnered with leading organizations in vocational training including City & Guilds of the UK and Skills International.\n\nInitially the institute only catered male students but recently AmanTech has launched a Stitching Machinist course for both girls and boys, in collaboration with Yunus Textile Mills.\n\nINJAZ Pakistan is a social impact organization. It was initiated and incubated by the Aman Foundation in April 2012. INJAZ Pakistan works on developing and encouraging entrepreneurial, work-readiness and financial literacy skills amongst children between the ages of 14 to 24, in Pakistan. In 2016, International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with INJAZ Pakistan for facilitating and conducting training sessions at ICCBS.\n"}
{"id": "4058246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4058246", "title": "Angel Makers of Nagyrév", "text": "Angel Makers of Nagyrév\n\nThe Angel Makers of Nagyrév were a group of women living in the village of Nagyrév, Hungary who between 1914 and 1929 poisoned to death an estimated 300 people. They were supplied arsenic and encouraged to use it for the purpose by a midwife or \"wise woman\" named Susanna Fazekas, wife of Julius Fazekas, née Susi Oláh (Fazekas Gyuláné Oláh Zsuzsanna). Their story is the subject of the documentary film \"The Angelmakers\" and the movie \"Hukkle\".\n\nMrs. Fazekas was a middle-aged midwife who arrived in Nagyrév in 1911, with her husband already missing without explanation. Between 1911 and 1921 she was imprisoned 10 times for performing illegal abortions, but was consistently acquitted by judges supporting abortion.\n\nIn Hungarian society at that time, the future husband of a teenage bride was selected by her family and she was forced to accept her parents' choice. Divorce was not allowed socially, even if the husband was an alcoholic or abusive. During World War I, when able-bodied men were sent to fight for Austria-Hungary, rural Nagyrév was an ideal location for holding Allied prisoners of war. With the limited freedom of POWs about the village, the women living there often had one or more foreign lovers while their husbands were away. When the men returned, many of them rejected their wives' affairs and wished to return to their previous way of life, creating a volatile situation. At this time Fazekas began secretly persuading women who wished to escape this situation to poison their husbands using arsenic made by boiling flypaper and skimming off the lethal residue.\n\nAfter the initial killing of their husbands, some of the women went on to poison parents who had become a burden to them, or to get hold of their inheritance. Others poisoned their lovers, some even their sons; as the midwife allegedly told the poisoners, \"Why put up with them?\"\n\nThe first poisoning in Nagyrév took place in 1911; it was not the work of Mrs. Fazekas. The deaths of other husbands, children, and family members soon followed. The poisoning became a fad, and by the mid-1920s, Nagyrév earned the nickname \"the murder district.\" There were an estimated 45–50 murders over the 18 years that Mrs. Fazekas lived in the district. She was the closest thing to a doctor the village had and her cousin was the clerk who filed all the death certificates, allowing the murders to go undetected.\n\nThree conflicting accounts have been cited to explain how the Angel Makers were eventually detected. In one, Mrs. Szabó, one of the Angel Makers, was caught in the act by two visitors who survived her poisoning attempts. She fingered a Mrs. Bukenoveski, who named Mrs. Fazekas. In another account, a medical student in a neighboring town found high arsenic levels in a body that washed up on the riverbank, leading to an investigation. However, according to Béla Bodó, a Hungarian-American historian and author of the first scholarly book on the subject, the murders were finally made public in 1929 when an anonymous letter to the editor of a small local newspaper accused women from the Tiszazug region of the country of poisoning family members. \n\nThe authorities exhumed dozens of corpses from the local cemetery. 34 women and one man were indicted. Afterwards, 26 of the Angel Makers were tried, among them Susi Oláh. Eight were sentenced to death but only two were executed. Another 12 received prison sentences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52356130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52356130", "title": "Cannabis in Malta", "text": "Cannabis in Malta\n\nCannabis in Malta is illegal but partially decriminalized. In 2018, Malta legalized medical cannabis.\n\nIn 2015, Malta introduced new policies to decriminalize cannabis. Simple possession will still remain an \"arrestable offense\" is for the police to be able to fight drug trafficking, and says that the possession of a minimal amount of drugs (3.5g) for personal consumption will effectively be decriminalized. First-time offenders will be handed fines of between €50 and €100 in the case of cannabis possession. Repeat offenders will appear before a Drug Offenders Rehabilitation Board, headed by retired Chief of Justice, which will set conditions for rehabilitation. Breaching the conditions would be tantamount to a criminal offense. The Magistrates Court - in cases not involving the use of weapons or violence - would be able to act as a Drugs Court and refer the accused for treatment to the rehabilitation board.\n\nSativex was approved for prescription use in 2015. As of July 2017, however, no patients have been treated with it.\n\nIn March 2018, the Maltese president signed into law legislation approving medical cannabis with a prescription, though the legislation did not detail which specific conditions would merit the use of cannabis.\n\nIn 2014 news media reported that cannabis saplings were appearing in roundabouts and centre strips in Gozo and Zebbug.\n"}
{"id": "5984659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5984659", "title": "Capital punishment in Germany", "text": "Capital punishment in Germany\n\nCapital punishment is prohibited in Germany by constitution. It was abolished in West Germany in 1949 and East Germany in 1987. The last person executed in Germany was the East German Werner Teske, killed in an East German prison in Leipzig in 1981.\n\nThe current Constitution of Germany (\"Grundgesetz für die Bundesrepublik Deutschland\"), which came into effect on 23 May 1949, forbids capital punishment. This ban is stated in article 102 GG: \"Die Todesstrafe ist abgeschafft\" - \"Capital punishment is abolished.\"\n\nIt is debated among constitutional jurists whether article 102 GG in combination article 2 section 2 GG – \"Jeder hat das Recht auf Leben und körperliche Unversehrtheit\" (\"Every person shall have the right to life and physical integrity\") prohibits any targeted killing on the part of the state (e.g. in the context of a hostage situation).\n\nThere has also been debate on the question whether this article could legally be abolished by a two-thirds majority in Bundestag and Bundesrat. This is ostensibly the case, as section 3 of article 79 GG explicitly prohibits amendments of articles 1 and 20, exclusively, from which it follows that article 102 can in principle legally be amended or abolished under article 79. To dispute this, legal scholars have attempted to argue that the prohibition of capital punishment follows necessarily from article 2 GG, which would make article 102 GG entirely redundant. Article 102, according to its systematical place, does not guarantee a basic right but enacts a judiciary restriction. \n\nWhile this was the intention of the authors of the Constitution of 1949, the German Federal Court of Justice in 1995 has argued that \"concerns\" (\"Bedenken\") related to the general nature of the death penalty \"suggest\" (\"legen den Befund nahe\") that capital punishment should indeed be considered inadmissible already as a consequence of the guarantee of human dignity in article 1 GG.\n\nThe Penal Code was formally amended in 1951 to conform to the abolition. Previous death sentences were replaced by life imprisonment. As the constitution requires that prisoners have a chance of regaining freedom with other means than extralegal pardon only, prisoners are checked for release on parole after 15 years for regular intervals. Since the introduction of this provision, courts may in extreme cases declare \"special gravity of guilt\" which is meant and popularized as life without parole.\n\nAlthough article 21.1 of the constitution of the German state of Hesse provides capital punishment for high crimes, this provision is inoperative due to the federal ban on the death penalty (\"Bundesrecht bricht Landesrecht.\" (article 31 GG) – Federal law overrides state law.). The Bavarian Constitution, while not providing the death penalty by itself, for a long time contained a rule of implementation of it which was abrogated in a summary constitutional amendment in 1998.\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, high justice originally was reserved to the king. From the 13th century, it was transferred to the king's vassals along with their fiefs.\nThe first codification of capital punishment was the \"Halsgerichtsordnung\" passed by Maximilian I in 1499, followed in 1507 by the \"Constitutio Criminalis Bambergensis\".\nBoth codes formed the basis of the \"Constitutio Criminalis Carolina\" (CCC), passed in 1532 under Charles V.\nIn the Habsburg Monarchy, all regional codes were superseded by the \"Constitutio Criminalis Theresiana\" in 1768.\n\nIf the German constitution enacted by the Frankfurt Parliament in 1849 had come into force, capital punishment would have been abolished in most cases, since Art. III § 139 of the constitution stated: \"Die Todesstrafe, ausgenommen wo das Kriegsrecht sie vorschreibt, oder das Seerecht im Fall von Meutereien sie zuläßt, [...], [ist] abgeschafft\" (\"Capital punishment, except when it is prescribed by martial law or permitted by the law of the seas in cases of mutiny, [...] [is] abolished\"). These lines were deleted in the constitution for the Erfurt Union of 1849/1850.\n\nHistorian Christopher Clark noted that the death penalty was not very prevalent for example in Prussia. He compared Prussia to England and Wales, together even populous, in the first half of the 19th century. Every year, in England and Wales for about 16 times as many people were executed. While in Prussia the death penalty was usually applied only in murder cases, the English executed people also for stealing, sometimes even in minor cases.\n\nThe German Empire (1871–1918) quite liberally inflicted the death penalty for some forms of (1) high treason and for (2) murder. Murder was then defined as killing with premeditation; only murder and attempted murder of one's sovereign was capital treason. \n\nUnder military law, in case of a war only, some other particularly listed forms of (3) \"treason\", some cases of (4) wrongful surrender, (5) desertion in the field in case of relapse, if the previous desertion also had taken place in the field, (6) cowardice if it led to a flight with enticing one's comrades to flight, (7) explicit disobeying an order by word or deed in the face of the enemy, (8) sedition in the face of the enemy, or in the field (only) if done as a ringleader or instigator, or with violence as a leading man. During the German empire, the legal methods were, the hand-held axe, in some states also the guillotine for civilian crimes and firing squad for military crimes.\n\nAccording to Manfred Messerschmidt, \"from 1907 to 1932,\" i. e. including World War I, \"Germany had issued 1547 death warrants, of which 393 were executed. The Weimar Republic retained death penalty for murder, and several murderers were guillotined.\n\nAs to the National Socialists, the leading Nazi jurist Hans Frank boasted at the 1934 Reichsparteitag of “reckless implementation of the death penalty” as a special acquisition of the Nazi regime. Under Hitler nearly 40,000 death sentences were handed down, mainly by the Volksgerichtshof and also by the Reich Military Tribunal. \n\nExecutions were carried out most often by beheading using the guillotine, which in 1936 was ordained the official means of civil execution of capital punishment. From 1942 on hanging by using the short-drop method was also used, notoriously in the reprisals in the aftermath of the 20 July plot. A firing squad was reserved for military offenders.\n\nAdditional forms declared treason could (in some cases, especially for soldiers, mandatorily) be prosecuted with death, as could grave arson, aiding and abetting treason, betraying a secret (mandatorily), procuring a secret for the sake of betraying it, insidious publishing or rhetoric, failure to denounce a capital crime, destroying means for military use, sabotage (mandatorily for soldiers), kidnapping (mandatorily), compassing or imagining the death of a NS or state official for political reasons or the reason of their service, setting a car trap for the means of robbery (mandatorily), espionage (mandatorily), partisanry (mandatorily), all cases of desertion, subversion of military strength (mandatorily except for minor cases), looting (mandatorily even in cases of smallest amounts), arson which damages the power of defense of the people, crime during danger resulting from enemy aviation (in grave cases), taking advantage of the state of war whilst committing a crime (\"if the sound feeling of the people so requires\"), publishing foreign radio broadcasts, etc. The definition of murder was changed and, in practice, extended to the rather vague definition still in force, but now only with life imprisonment. This list is by no means exhaustive, even where laws and decrees are concerned.\n\nAs an addition to crimes declared capital by law or decree, a \"dangerous habitual criminal\" or one convicted of rape could be executed \"if the protection of the people or the need for just atonement so demands\", courts (or whatever was in place of a court) sometimes were officially granted the right to inflict the death penalty even where not provided by law, and sometimes did so by their own discretion. Many of the crimes covered a wide and unpredictable range of actions, such as treason, \"sabotage\" (Kriegsverrat, which was any action pandering the enemy) and subversion of the military strength, which could be interpreted as to cover any critical remark, and even though even it did clearly not cover it was applied to execute any conscientious objector.\n\nTo quote Hitler, \"after ten years of hard prison, a man is lost to the people's community anyway. Thus what to do with such a guy is either put him into a concentration camp, or kill him. In latest times the latter is more important, for the sake of deterrence.\"\n\nDuring 1933-1945, Wehrmacht courts issued, conservatively estimated, 25000 death warrants, of which 18000 to 20000 were executed.\" According to official statistics, other courts had altogether issued 16560 death warrants (whereof 664 before the war), of which about 12000 were executed. \nIn fighting partisans, 345000 are reported to have been killed, of which less than 10% may have been partisans.\n\nThis, however, should not obscure the fact that not only the National Socialist legal system was tyrannical (especially also with the protective custody, to be inflicted at the Gestapo's arbitration and to be fulfilled in a concentration camp), but this law also was broken to the detriment of those persecuted or opposing. \nA concentration camp commander could as early as in 1933 inflict the \"death penalty\" for disobedience, i. e. order to murder a disobedient, without any legal ground whatsoever besides the will of Heinrich Himmler, but also without meeting opposition. Himmler himself offered an honorable way out for members of the SS who were convicted of capital crimes-they were locked in a room with a revolver and one live round, then given several hours to use it. After their deaths any surviving family were given pensions. Bl. Bishop Clemens of Münster correctly saw himself legally obliged to denounce to the criminal police those responsible for the Action T4, i. e. the killing of the handicapped, for murder (then: killing with premeditation); likewise, no law even of the Nazis allowed extermination through work, and genocidal mass murder, as in the case of the Holocaust.\n\nCharles Lane (writer for \"The Washington Post\") claims the abolishment of capital punishment was a reaction not to its extensive use under the Third Reich, but to the execution of convicted Nazi war criminals by the International War Crimes Tribunal.\n\nA 2017 study found that \"judges more committed to the Nazi Party were more likely to impose the death sentence on defendants belonging to organised political opposition groups, those accused of violent resistance and those with characteristics to which Nazism was intolerant.\"\n\nAfter World War II, limited executions of common and war criminals were carried out on West German soil. The last common criminal to be executed in the Western Zones under German authority was Richard Schuh (murder and robbery) on February 18, 1949; in West Berlin the last execution was of Berthold Wehmeyer (murder, rape and robbery) on May 12, 1949. Despite the newly founded Federal Republic's protests, the Western Allied powers continued for some time to inflict the death penalty in their separate jurisdiction. The last war criminals being executed on June 7, 1951 at Landsberg prison. Until 1990, some \"criminal actions against the Allied Occupating Powers' interests\" remained capital in West Berlin, being under Allied jurisdiction without complete force of the Basic Law. However, no capital sentences under this authority were carried out.\n\nEast Germany abolished the death penalty in 1987. The last execution in East Germany is believed to have been the shooting of Werner Teske, convicted for treason, in 1981; the last execution of a civilian (after 1970, capital punishment was rare and almost exclusively for espionage) was Erwin Hagedorn, for sexually motivated child murder. By then, East German courts had inflicted the death penalty in 227 cases. 166 were executed, of which 52 for assumedly political crimes (espionage, sabotage etc.), 64 for crimes under Hitler's rule and 44 for common criminality (mostly murder under aggravated circumstances). Most of these took place during the 1950s; three known executions took place in the 70s and two in the 80s. The guillotine (called the \"Fallschwertmaschine\", \"falling sword machine\") was used for the last time on former SS doctor Horst Fischer in 1966, after which it was replaced by an \"unexpected close shot in the back of the head\" (\"unerwarteter Nahschuss in das Hinterhaupt\"). East Germany was notable for its secrecy about its executions, even when the death warrants had been issued in show trials; death certificates mostly stated instead \"heart failure\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6094561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6094561", "title": "Capital punishment in Malta", "text": "Capital punishment in Malta\n\nCapital punishment for murder was abolished in Malta in 1971. It continued to be part of the country's military code until it was fully abolished on 21 March 2000. Malta is a signatory of the Second Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that commits it to abolition of the death penalty within its borders. Malta has also ratified protocol 13 to the European Convention on Human Rights, that bans the death penalty in all circumstances.\n\nEighteen executions were carried out between 1876 and 1943. The last executions, on 5 July 1943, were of the brothers Karmnu and Guzeppi Zammit who were hanged for the murder of Spiru Grech. The last execution for a crime other than murder took place during World War II, when Carmelo Borg Pisani was hanged for treason on 28 November 1942. Pisani was a Maltese-born man who had joined the Italian National Fascist Party and taken Italian citizenship in 1940. He returned to Malta on an espionage mission in anticipation of an Axis invasion of the island.\n\nThe last person condemned to death was Anthony Patignott, on 1 October 1963, for the killing of Manwel Baldacchino. The Governor General of Malta, Maurice Henry Dorman, commuted Patignott's sentence to life imprisonment.\n\nPublic opinion in Malta is strongly opposed to the death penalty. The 2008 European Values Study (EVS) found that 70.3% of respondents in Malta said that the death penalty can never be justified, while only 4.5% said it can always be justified.\n\n"}
{"id": "995809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=995809", "title": "Conjugated linoleic acid", "text": "Conjugated linoleic acid\n\nConjugated linoleic acids (CLA) are a family of at least 28 isomers of linoleic acid found mostly in the meat and dairy products derived from ruminants. CLAs can be either cis- or trans-fats and the double bonds of CLAs are conjugated and separated by a single bond between them.\n\nCLA is marketed as a dietary supplement on the basis of its supposed health benefits.\n\nThe biological activity of CLA was noted by researchers in 1979 who found it to inhibit chemically induced cancer in mice and research on its biological activity has continued.\n\nIn 2008, the United States Food and Drug Administration categorized CLA as generally recognized as safe (GRAS).\n\nMost studies of CLAs have used a mixture of isomers wherein the isomers c9,t11-CLA (rumenic acid) and t10,c12-CLA were the most abundant. More recent studies using individual isomers indicate that the two isomers have very different health effects.\n\nConjugated linoleic acid is both a \"trans\" fatty acid and a \"cis\" fatty acid. The \"cis\" bond causes a lower melting point and ostensibly also the observed beneficial health effects. Unlike other \"trans\" fatty acids, it may have beneficial effects on human health. CLA is conjugated, and in the United States, \"trans\" linkages in a conjugated system are not counted as \"trans\" fats for the purposes of nutritional regulations and labeling. CLA and some \"trans\" isomers of oleic acid are produced by microorganisms in the rumens of ruminants. Non-ruminants, including humans, produce certain isomers of CLA from \"trans\" isomers of oleic acid, such as vaccenic acid, which is converted to CLA by delta-9-desaturase.\n\nIn healthy humans, CLA and the related conjugated linolenic acid (CLNA) isomers are bioconverted from linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid, respectively, mainly by \"Bifidobacterium\" bacteria strains inhabiting the gastrointestinal tract. However, this bioconversion may not occur at any significant level in those with a digestive disease, gluten sensitivity, and/or dysbiosis.\n\nCLA is marketed in dietary supplement form for its supposed anti-cancer benefit (for which there is some evidence, but no known mechanism, and very few studies done so far) and as a bodybuilding aid. A 2004 review of the evidence said that while CLA seemed to benefit non-human animals, there was a lack of good evidence of human health benefits, despite the many claims made for it.\n\nLikewise, there is insufficient evidence that CLA has a useful benefit for overweight or obese people as it has no long-term effect on body composition. CLA has shown an effect on insulin response in diabetic rats but there is no evidence of this effect in humans.\n\nA 2017 study found CLA supplementation has been associated with increased plasma C-reactive protein concentrations and a reduction in serum adiponectin concentrations, which indicates that CLA supplements have a pro-inflammatory effect.\n\nFood products from grass-fed ruminants (e.g. mutton and beef) are good sources of CLA, and contain much more of it than those from grain-fed animals. Eggs from chickens that have been fed CLA are also rich in CLA, and CLA in eggs has been shown to survive the temperatures encountered during frying. Some mushrooms, such as \"Agaricus bisporus\" and \"Agaricus subrufescens\", are rare non-animal sources of CLA.\n\n"}
{"id": "46734540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46734540", "title": "Construction of electronic cigarettes", "text": "Construction of electronic cigarettes\n\nAn electronic cigarette is a battery-powered vaporizer. The primary parts that make up an e-cigarette are a mouthpiece, a cartridge (tank), a heating element/atomizer, a microprocessor, a battery, and possibly a LED light on the end. An atomizer comprises a small heating element that vaporizes e-liquid and wicking material that draws liquid onto the coil. When the user pushes a button, or (in some variations) activates a pressure sensor by inhaling, the heating element then atomizes the liquid solution The e-liquid reaches a temperature of roughly 100-250 °C (212º-482 °F) within a chamber to create an aerosolized vapor. The user inhales the aerosol, commonly called vapor, rather than cigarette smoke. The aerosol provides a flavor and feel similar to tobacco smoking.\nThere are three main types of e-cigarettes: cigalikes, looking like cigarettes; eGos, bigger than cigalikes with refillable liquid tanks; and mods, assembled from basic parts or by altering existing products. As the e-cigarette industry continues to evolve, new products are quickly developed and brought to market. First generation e-cigarettes tend to look like tobacco cigarettes and so are called \"cigalikes\". Most cigalikes look like cigarettes but there is some variation in size. Second generation devices are larger overall and look less like tobacco cigarettes. Third generation devices include mechanical mods and variable voltage devices. The fourth generation includes Sub ohm tanks and temperature control devices. The power source is the biggest component of an e-cigarette, which is frequently a rechargeable lithium-ion battery.\n\nAn e-cigarette is a handheld battery-powered vaporizer that simulates smoking, but without tobacco combustion. Once the user inhales, the airflow activates the pressure sensor, and then the heating element atomizes the liquid solution. Most devices have a manual push-button switch to turn them on or off. E-cigarettes do not turn on by trying to \"light\" the device with a flame. The e-liquid reaches a temperature of roughly 100-250 °C within a chamber to create an aerosolized vapor. However, variable voltage devices can raise the temperature. A glycerin-only liquid vaporizes at a higher temperature than a propylene glycol-glycerin liquid. Rather than cigarette smoke, the user inhales an aerosol, commonly but inaccurately called vapor. E-cigarettes do not create vapor between puffs.\n\nVaping is different than tobacco smoking, but there are some similarities with their behavioral habits, including the hand-to-mouth action and a vapor that looks like cigarette smoke. E-cigarettes provide a flavor and feel similar to smoking. A noticeable difference between the traditional cigarette and the e-cigarette is sense of touch. A traditional cigarette is smooth and light but an e-cigarette is rigid, cold and slightly heavier. Since e-cigarettes are more complex than traditional cigarettes, a learning curve is needed to use them correctly.\n\nCompared to traditional cigarettes, the general e-cigarette puff time is much longer, and requires a more forceful suction than a regular cigarette. The volume of vapor created by e-cigarette devices in 2012 declined with vaping. Thus, to create the same volume of vapor increasing puff force is needed. Later-generation e-cigarettes with concentrated nicotine liquids may deliver nicotine at levels similar to traditional cigarettes. Many e-cigarette versions include a voltage potentiometer to adjust the volume of vapor created. The amount of vapor produced is controlled by the power from the battery, which has led some users to adjust their devices to increase battery power. Larger percentages of VG in e-liquid also increase vapor production.\n\nE-cigarettes are usually approximately cylindrical, with many variations: pen-styles, tank-styles etc. Some e-cigarettes look like traditional cigarettes, but others do not. There are three main types of e-cigarettes: cigalikes, looking like cigarettes; eGos, bigger than cigalikes with refillable liquid tanks; and mods, assembled from basic parts or by altering existing products.\n\nThe primary parts that make up an e-cigarette are a mouthpiece, a cartridge (tank), a heating element/atomizer, a microprocessor, a battery, and possibly a LED light on the end. The only exception to this are mechanical e-cigarettes (mods) which contain no electronics and the circuit is closed by using a mechanical action switch. E-cigarettes are sold in disposable or reusable variants. Disposable e-cigarettes are discarded once the liquid in the cartridge is used up, while rechargeable e-cigarettes may be used indefinitely. A disposable e-cigarette lasts to around 400 puffs. Reusable e-cigarettes are refilled by hand or exchanged for pre-filled cartridges, and general cleaning is required. A wide range of disposable and reusable e-cigarettes exist. Disposable e-cigarettes are offered for a few dollars, and higher-priced reusable e-cigarettes involve an up-front investment for a starter kit. Some e-cigarettes have a LED at the tip to resemble the glow of burning tobacco. The LED may also indicate the battery status. The LED is not generally used in personal vaporizers or mods.\n\nFirst-generation e-cigarettes usually simulated smoking implements, such as cigarettes or cigars, in their use and appearance. Later-generation e-cigarettes often called mods, PVs (personal vaporizer) or APVs (advanced personal vaporizer) have an increased nicotine-dispersal performance, house higher capacity batteries, and come in various shapes such as metal tubes and boxes. They contain silver, steel, metals, ceramics, plastics, fibers, aluminum, rubber and spume, and lithium batteries. A growing subclass of vapers called cloud-chasers configure their atomizers to produce large amounts of vapor by using low-resistance heating coils. This practice is known as cloud-chasing. Many e-cigarettes are made of standardized replaceable parts that are interchangeable between brands. A wide array of component combinations exists. Many e-cigarettes are sold with a USB charger. E-cigarettes that resemble pens or USB memory sticks are also sold for those who may want to use the device unobtrusively.\n\nAs the e-cigarette industry continues to evolve, new products are quickly developed and brought to market.\n\nFirst-generation e-cigarettes tend to look like tobacco cigarettes and so are called \"cigalikes\". The three parts of a cigalike e-cigarette initially were a cartridge, an atomizer, and a battery. A cigalike e-cigarette currently contains a cartomizer (cartridge atomizer), which is connected to a battery. Most cigalikes look like cigarettes but there is some variation in size.\n\nThey may be a single unit comprising a battery, coil and filling saturated with e-juice in a single tube to be used and discarded after the battery or e-liquid is depleted. They may also be a reusable device with a battery and cartridge called a cartomizer. The cartomizer cartridge can be separated from the battery so the battery can be charged and the empty cartomizer replaced when the e-juice runs out.\n\nThe battery section may contain an electronic airflow sensor triggered by drawing breath through the device. Other models use a power button that must be held during operation. An LED in the power button or on the end of the device may also show when the device is vaporizing.\n\nCharging is commonly accomplished with a USB charger that attaches to the battery. Some manufacturers also have a cigarette pack-shaped portable charging case (PCC), which contains a larger battery capable of recharging the individual e-cigarette batteries. Reusable devices can come in a kit that contains a battery, a charger, and at least one cartridge. Varying nicotine concentrations are available and nicotine delivery to the user also varies based on different cartomizers, e-juice mixtures, and power supplied by the battery.\n\nThese manufacturing differences affect the way e-cigarettes convert the liquid solution to an aerosol, and thus the levels of ingredients, that are delivered to the user and the surrounding air for any given liquid. First-generation e-cigarettes use lower voltages, around 3.7 V.\n\nSecond generation devices tend to be used by people with more experience. They are larger overall and look less like tobacco cigarettes. They usually consist of two sections, basically a tank and a separate battery. Their batteries have higher capacity, and are not removable. Being rechargeable, they use a USB charger that attaches to the battery with a threaded connector. Some batteries have a \"passthrough\" feature so they can be used even while they are charging.\n\nSecond-generation e-cigarettes commonly use a tank or a \"clearomizer\". Clearomizer tanks are meant to be refilled with e-juice, while cartomizers are not. Because they're refillable and the battery is rechargeable, their cost of operation is lower. Hovever, they can also use cartomizers, which are pre-filled only.\n\nSome cheaper battery sections use a microphone that detects the turbulence of the air passing through to activate the device when the user inhales. Other batteries like the eGo style can use an integrated circuit, as well as a button for manual activation. The LED shows battery status. The power button can also switch off the battery so it is not activated accidentally. Second generation e-cigarettes may have lower voltages, around 3.7 V. However, adjustable-voltage devices can be set between 3 V and 6 V.\n\nThe third-generation includes mechanical mods and variable voltage devices. Battery sections are commonly called \"mods,\" referencing their past when user modification was common. Mechanical mods do not contain integrated circuits. They are commonly cylindrical or box-shaped, and typical housing materials are wood, aluminium, stainless steel, or brass. A larger \"box mod\" can hold bigger and sometimes multiple batteries.\n\nMechanical mods and variable devices use larger batteries than those found in previous generations. Common battery sizes used are 18350, 18490, 18500 and 18650. The battery is often removable, so it can be changed when depleted. The battery must be removed and charged externally.\n\nVariable devices permit setting wattage, voltage, or both. These often have a USB connector for recharging; some can be used while charging, called a \"passthrough\" feature. \n\nThe power section may include additional options such as screen readout, support for a wide range of internal batteries, and compatibility with different types of atomizers. Third-generation devices can have rebuildable atomizers with different wicking materials. These rebuildables use handmade coils that can be installed in the atomizer to increase vapor production. Hardware in this generation is sometimes modified to increase power or flavor.\n\nThe larger battery sections used also allow larger tanks to be attached that can hold more e-liquid. Recent devices can go up to 8 V, which can heat the e-liquid significantly more than earlier generations.\n\nA fourth-generation e-cigarette became available in the U.S. in 2014. Fourth-generation e-cigarettes can be made from stainless steel and pyrex glass, and contain very little plastics. Included in the fourth-generation are Sub ohm tanks and temperature control devices.\n\nAn atomizer comprises a small heating element that vaporizes e-liquid and a wicking material that draws liquid onto the coil. Along with a battery and e-liquid the atomizer is the main component of every personal vaporizer. A small length of resistance wire is coiled around the wicking material and connected to the integrated circuit, or in the case of mechanical devices, the atomizer is connected directly to the battery through either a 510, 808, or ego threaded connector. 510 being the most common. When activated, the resistance wire coil heats up and vaporizes the liquid, which is then inhaled by the user.\n\nThe electrical resistance of the coil, the voltage output of the device, the airflow of the atomizer and the efficiency of the wick all affect the vapor coming from the atomizer. They also affect the vapor quantity or volume yielded.\n\nAtomizer coils made of kanthal usually have resistances that vary from 0.2Ω (ohms) to 2.8Ω. Coils of lower ohms have increased vapor production but could risk fire and dangerous battery failures if the user is not knowledgeable enough about electrical principles and how they relate to battery safety.\n\nWicking materials vary from one atomizer to another. \"Rebuildable\" or \"do it yourself\" atomizers can use silica, cotton, rayon, porous ceramic, hemp, bamboo yarn, oxidized stainless steel mesh and even wire rope cables as wicking materials.\n\nThe cartomizer was invented in 2007, integrating the heating coil into the liquid chamber. A \"cartomizer\" (a portmanteau of cartridge and atomizer.) or \"carto\" consists of an atomizer surrounded by a liquid-soaked poly-foam that acts as an e-liquid holder. They can have up to 3 coils and each coil will increase vapor production. The cartomizer is usually discarded when the e-liquid starts to taste burnt, which usually happens when the e-cigarette is activated with a dry coil or when the cartomizer gets consistently flooded (gurgling) because of sedimentation of the wick. Most cartomizers are refillable even if not advertised as such.\n\nCartomizers can be used on their own or in conjunction with a tank that allows more e-liquid capacity. The portmanteau word \"cartotank\" has been coined for this. When used in a tank, the cartomizer is inserted in a plastic, glass or metal tube and holes or slots have to be punched on the sides of the cartomizer so liquid can reach the coil.\n\nThe clearomizer was invented in 2009 that originated from the cartomizer design. It contained the wicking material, an e-liquid chamber, and an atomizer coil within a single clear component. This allows the user to monitor the liquid level in the device. Clearomizers or \"clearos\", are like cartotanks, in that an atomizer is inserted into the tank. There are different wicking systems used inside clearomizers. Some rely on gravity to bring the e-liquid to the wick and coil assembly (bottom coil clearomizers for example) and others rely on capillary action or to some degree the user agitating the e-liquid while handling the clearomizer (top coil clearomizers). The coil and wicks are typically inside a prefabricated assembly or \"head\" that is replaceable by the user.\n\nClearomizers are made with adjustable air flow control. Tanks can be plastic or borosilicate glass. Some flavors of e-juice have been known to damage plastic clearomizer tanks.\n\nA rebuildable atomizer or an RBA is an atomizer that allows the user to assemble or \"build\" the wick and coil themselves instead of replacing them with off-the-shelf atomizer \"heads\". They are generally considered advanced devices. They also allow the user to build atomizers at any desired electrical resistance.\n\nThese atomizers are divided into two main categories; rebuildable tank atomizers (RTAs) and rebuildable dripping atomizers (RDAs).\n\nRebuildable tank atomizers (RTAs) have a tank to hold liquid that is absorbed by the wick. They can hold up to 4ml of e-liquid. The tank can be either plastic, glass, or metal. One form of tank atomizers was the Genesis style atomizers. They can use ceramic wicks, stainless steel mesh or rope for wicking material. The steel wick must be oxidized to prevent arcing of the coil. Another type is the Sub ohm tank. These tanks have rebuildable or RBA kits. They can also use coil heads of 0.2 ohm, 0.4 ohm, and 0.5 ohm. These coil heads can have stainless steel coils.\n\nRebuildable dripping atomizers (RDAs) are atomizers where the e-juice is dripped directly onto the coil and wick. The common nicotine strength of e-liquids used in RDA's is 3 mg and 6 mg. Liquids used in RDA's tend to have more vegetable glycerin. They typically consist only of an atomizer \"building deck\", commonly with three posts with holes drilled in them, which can accept one or more coils. The user needs to manually keep the atomizer wet by dripping liquid on the bare wick and coil assembly, hence their name.\n\nKanthal wire can be used in an RDA, RTA or RTDA, or the builder may opt for stainless steel, nickel, titanium, nichrome and other custom combination wires. Wattage and Bypass modes allow for any type of wire, not every type of wire can be used when the mod is set to temperature control.\n\nThis gives squonk boxes the advantages of holding more e-juice than RTAs and reducing the need to carry separate e-juice bottles throughout the day.\n\nVariable devices are variable wattage, variable voltage or both. Variable power and/or variable voltage have an electronic chip allowing the user to adjust the power applied to the heating element. The amount of power applied to the coil affects the heat produced, thus changing the vapor output. Greater heat from the coil increases vapor production. Variable power devices monitor the coil's resistance and automatically adjust the voltage to apply the user-specified level of power to the coil. Recent devices can go up to 8 V.\nThey are often rectangular but can also be cylindrical. They usually have a screen to show information such as voltage, power, and resistance of the coil. To adjust the settings, the user presses buttons or rotates a dial to turn the power up or down. Some of these devices include additional settings through their menu system such as: atomizer resistance meter, remaining battery voltage, puff counter, and power-off or lock. The power source is the biggest component of an e-cigarette, which is frequently a rechargeable lithium-ion battery. Smaller devices contain smaller batteries and are easier to carry but typically require more repeated recharging. Some e-cigarettes use a long lasting rechargeable battery, a non-rechargeable battery or a replaceable battery that is either rechargeable or non-rechargeable for power. Some companies offer portable chargeable cases to recharge e-cigarettes. Nickel-cadmium (NiCad), nickel metal-hydride (NiMh), lithium ion (Li-ion), alkaline and lithium polymer (Li-poly), and lithium manganese (LiMn) batteries have been used for the e-cigarettes power source.\n\nTemperature control devices allow the user to set the temperature. There is a predictable change to the resistance of a coil when it is heated. The resistance changes are different for different types of wires, and must have a high temperature coefficient of resistance. Temperature control is done by detecting that resistance change to estimate the temperature and adjusting the voltage to the coil to match that estimate.\n\nNickel, titanium, NiFe alloys, and certain grades of stainless steel are common materials used for wire in temperature control. The most common wire used, kanthal, cannot be used because it has a stable resistance regardless of the coil temperature. Nickel was the first wire used because of it has the highest coefficient of the common metals.\nThe temperature can be adjusted in Celsius or Fahrenheit. The Evolv's DNA40 and YiHi's SX350J are control boards used in temperature control devices. Temperature control can stop dry wicks from burning, or e-liquid overheating.\n\nMechanical PVs or mechanical \"mods\", often called \"mechs\", are devices without integrated circuits, electronic battery protection, or voltage regulation. They are activated by a switch. They rely on the natural voltage output of the battery and the metal that the mod is made of often is used as part of the circuit itself.\n\nThe term \"mod\" was originally used instead of \"modification\". Users would modify existing hardware to get better performance, and as an alternative to the e-cigarettes that looked like traditional cigarettes. Users would also modify other unrelated items like flashlights as battery compartments to power atomizers. The word mod is often used to describe most personal vaporizers.\n\nMechanical PVs have no power regulation and are unprotected. Because of this ensuring that the battery does not over-discharge and that the resistance of the atomizer requires electric current within the safety limits of the battery is the responsibility of the user.\n"}
{"id": "5075897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5075897", "title": "Cumulative incidence", "text": "Cumulative incidence\n\nCumulative incidence or incidence proportion is a measure of frequency, as in epidemiology, where it is a measure of disease frequency during a period of time. Where the period of time considered is an entire lifetime, the incidence proportion is called lifetime risk.\n\nCumulative incidence is defined as the probability that a particular event, such as occurrence of a particular disease, has occurred before a given time. It is equivalent to the incidence, calculated using a period of time during which all of the individuals in the population are considered to be at risk for the outcome. It is sometimes also referred to as the incidence proportion.\n\nCumulative incidence is calculated by the number of new cases during a period divided by the number of subjects at risk in the population at the beginning of the study.\n\nIt may also be calculated by the incidence rate multiplied by duration:\n\n"}
{"id": "8196616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8196616", "title": "Decidual cells", "text": "Decidual cells\n\nBefore the fertilized ovum reaches the uterus, the mucous membrane of the body of the uterus undergoes important changes and is then known as the decidua. The thickness and vascularity of the mucous membrane are greatly increased; its glands are elongated and open on its free surface by funnel-shaped orifices, while their deeper portions are tortuous and dilated into irregular spaces. The interglandular tissue is also increased in quantity, and is crowded with large round, oval, or polygonal cells, termed decidual cells. Their enlargement is due to glycogen and lipid accumulation in the cytoplasm allowing these cells to provide a rich source of nutrition for the developing embryo.\n\nExperimentally, human endometrial stromal cells can be decidualized in culture by using analogs of cAMP and progesterone. The cells will exhibit a decidualized phenotype and display upregulation of common decidualization markers such as prolactin and IGFBP1.\n\n"}
{"id": "40854066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40854066", "title": "Epigenetic clock", "text": "Epigenetic clock\n\nAn epigenetic clock is a type of a molecular age estimation method based on DNA methylation levels. Pre-eminent examples for epigenetic clocks are Horvath's clock, which applies to all human tissues/cells, and Hannum's clock, which applies to blood.\n\nThe strong effects of age on DNA methylation levels have been known since the late 1960s. A vast literature describes sets of CpGs whose DNA methylation levels correlate with age, e.g. The first robust demonstration that DNA methylation levels in saliva could generate accurate age predictors was published by a UCLA team including Steve Horvath in 2011 (Bocklandt et al 2011). The labs of Trey Ideker and Kang Zhang at the University of California, San Diego published the Hannum epigenetic clock (Hannum 2013), which consisted of 71 markers that accurately estimate age based on blood methylation levels. \nThe first multi-tissue epigenetic clock, Horvath's epigenetic clock, was developed by Steve Horvath, a professor of human genetics and of biostatistics at UCLA (Horvath 2013). Horvath spent over 4 years collecting publicly available Illumina DNA methylation data and identifying suitable statistical methods. The personal story behind the discovery was featured in Nature. The age estimator was developed using 8,000 samples from 82 Illumina DNA methylation array datasets, encompassing 51 healthy tissues and cell types. The major innovation of Horvath's epigenetic clock lies in its wide applicability: the same set of 353 CpGs and the same prediction algorithm is used irrespective of the DNA source within the organism, i.e. it does not require any adjustments or offsets. This property allows one to compare the ages of different areas of the human body using the same aging clock.\n\nIt is not yet known what exactly is measured by DNA methylation age. Horvath hypothesized that DNA methylation age measures the cumulative effect of an epigenetic maintenance system but details are unknown. The fact that DNA methylation age of blood predicts all-cause mortality in later life strongly suggests that it relates to a process that causes aging. However, it is unlikely that the 353 clock CpGs are special or play a direct causal role in the aging process. Rather, the epigenetic clock captures an emergent property of the epigenome.\n\nHorvath and Raj proposed an epigenetic clock theory of aging with the following tenets:\n\nIn general, biological aging clocks and biomarkers of aging are expected to find many uses in biological research since age is a fundamental characteristic of most organisms. Accurate measures of biological age (biological aging clocks) could be useful for\nOverall, biological clocks are expected to be useful for studying what causes aging and what can be done against it.\n\nThe clock is defined as an age estimation method based on 353 epigenetic markers on the DNA. The 353 markers measure DNA methylation of CpG dinucleotides. Estimated age (\"predicted age\" in mathematical usage), also referred to as DNA methylation age, has the following properties: first, it is close to zero for embryonic and induced pluripotent stem cells; second, it correlates with cell passage number; third, it gives rise to a highly heritable measure of age acceleration; and, fourth, it is applicable to chimpanzee tissues (which are used as human analogs for biological testing purposes). Organismal growth (and concomitant cell division) leads to a high ticking rate of the epigenetic clock that slows down to a constant ticking rate (linear dependence) after adulthood (age 20).\nThe fact that DNA methylation age of blood predicts all-cause mortality in later life even after adjusting for known risk factors suggests that it relates to a process that causes aging. Similarly, markers of physical and mental fitness are associated with the epigenetic clock (lower abilities associated with age acceleration).\n\nSalient features of Horvath's epigenetic clock include its high accuracy and its applicability to a broad spectrum of tissues and cell types. Since it allows one to contrast the ages of different tissues from the same subject, it can be used to identify tissues that show evidence of accelerated age due to disease.\n\nThe basic approach is to form a weighted average of the 353 clock CpGs, which is then transformed to DNAm age using a calibration function. The calibration function reveals that the epigenetic clock has a high ticking rate until adulthood, after which it slows to a constant ticking rate. Using the training data sets, Horvath used a penalized regression model (Elastic net regularization) to regress a calibrated version of chronological age on 21,369 CpG probes that were present both on the Illumina 450K and 27K platform and had fewer than 10 missing values. DNAm age is defined as estimated (\"predicted\") age. The elastic net predictor automatically selected 353 CpGs. 193 of the 353 CpGs correlate positively with age while the remaining 160 CpGs correlate negatively with age. R software and a freely available web-based tool can be found at the following webpage.\n\nThe median error of estimated age is 3.6 years across a wide spectrum of tissues and cell types\n. The epigenetic clock performs well in heterogeneous tissues (for example, whole blood, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, cerebellar samples, occipital cortex, buccal epithelium, colon, adipose, kidney, liver, lung, saliva, uterine cervix, epidermis, muscle) as well as in individual cell types such as CD4 T cells, CD14 monocytes, glial cells, neurons, immortalized B cells, mesenchymal stromal cells. However, accuracy depends to some extent on the source of the DNA.\n\nThe epigenetic clock leads to a chronological age prediction that has a Pearson correlation coefficient of r=0.96 with chronological age (Figure 2 in ). Thus the age correlation is close to its maximum possible correlation value of 1. Other biological clocks are based on a) telomere length, b) p16INK4a expression levels (also known as INK4a/ARF locus), and c) microsatellite mutations. The correlation between chronological age and telomere length is r=−0.51 in women and r=−0.55 in men. The correlation between chronological age and expression levels of p16INK4a in T cells is r=0.56. \n\nBy contrasting DNA methylation age (estimated age) with chronological age, one can define measures of age acceleration. Age acceleration can be defined as the difference between DNA methylation age and chronological age. Alternatively, it can be defined as the residual that results from regressing DNAm age on chronological age. The latter measure is attractive because it does not correlate with chronological age.\nA positive/negative value of epigenetic age acceleration suggests that the underlying tissue ages faster/slower than expected.\n\nThe broad sense heritability (defined via Falconer's formula) of age acceleration of blood from older subjects is around 40% but it appears to be much higher in newborns.\nSimilarly, the age acceleration of brain tissue (prefrontal cortex) was found to be 41% in older subjects.\nGenome-wide association studies (GWAS) of epigenetic age acceleration in postmortem brain samples have identified\nseveral SNPs at a genomewide significance level.\nGWAS of age acceleration in blood have identified several genome-wide significant genetic loci including the telomerase reverse transcriptase gene (TERT) locus\nGenetic variants associated with longer leukocyte telomere length in TERT gene paradoxically confer higher epigenetic age acceleration in blood.\n\nIn general, lifestyle factors have only weak effects on epigenetic age acceleration in blood.\nHowever, cross sectional studies of extrinsic epigenetic aging rates in blood confirm the conventional wisdom regarding the benefits of education, eating a high plant diet with lean meats, moderate alcohol consumption, physical activity and the risks associated with metabolic syndrome.\n\nThe epigenetic clock was used to study the relationship between high body mass index (BMI) and the DNA methylation ages of human blood, liver, muscle and adipose tissue. A significant correlation (r=0.42) between BMI and epigenetic age acceleration could be observed for the liver. A much larger sample size (n=4200 blood samples) revealed a weak but statistically significant correlation (r=0.09) between BMI and intrinsic age acceleration of blood. The same large study found that various biomarkers of metabolic syndrome (glucose-, insulin-, triglyceride levels, C-reactive protein, waist-to-hip ratio) were associated with epigenetic age acceleration in blood. Conversely, high levels of the good cholesterol HDL were associated with a lower epigenetic aging rate of blood.\n\nDNAm age is higher than chronological age in female breast tissue that is adjacent to breast cancer tissue. Since normal tissue which is adjacent to other cancer types does not exhibit a similar age acceleration effect, this finding suggests that normal female breast tissue ages faster than other parts of the body. Similarly, normal breast tissue samples from women without cancer have been found to be substantially older than blood samples collected from the same women at the same time .\n\nCancer tissues show both positive and negative age acceleration effects. For most tumor types, no significant relationship can be observed between age acceleration and tumor morphology (grade/stage). On average, cancer tissues with mutated TP53 have a lower age acceleration than those without it. Further, cancer tissues with high age acceleration tend to have fewer somatic mutations than those with low age acceleration.\nAge acceleration is highly related to various genomic aberrations in cancer tissues. Somatic mutations in estrogen receptors or progesterone receptors are associated with accelerated DNAm age in breast cancer. Colorectal cancer samples with a BRAF (V600E) mutation or promoter hypermethylation of the mismatch repair gene MLH1 are associated with an increased age acceleration. Age acceleration in glioblastoma multiforme samples is highly significantly associated with certain mutations in H3F3A.\nOne study suggests that the epigenetic age of blood tissue may be prognostic of lung cancer incidence.\n\nDown Syndrome (DS) entails an increased risk of many chronic diseases that are typically associated with older age. The clinical manifestations of accelerated aging suggest that trisomy 21 increases the biological age of tissues, but molecular evidence for this hypothesis has been sparse. According to the epigenetic clock, trisomy 21 significantly increases the age of blood and brain tissue (on average by 6.6 years).\n\nEpigenetic age acceleration of the human prefrontal cortex was found to be correlated with several neuropathological measurements that play a role in Alzheimer's disease Further, it was found to be associated with a decline in global cognitive functioning, and memory functioning among individuals with Alzheimer's disease.\nThe epigenetic age of blood relates to cognitive functioning in the elderly. Overall, these results strongly suggest that the epigenetic clock lends itself for measuring the biological age of the brain.\n\nIt has been difficult to identify tissues that seem to evade aging due to the lack of biomarkers of tissue age that allow one to contrast compare the ages of different tissues. An application of epigenetic clock to 30 anatomic sites from six centenarians and younger subjects revealed that the cerebellum ages slowly: it is about 15 years younger than expected in a centenarian. This finding might explain why the cerebellum exhibits fewer neuropathological hallmarks of age related dementias compared to other brain regions. In younger subjects (e.g. younger than 70), brain regions and brain cells appear to have roughly the same age. Several SNPs and genes have been identified that relate to the epigenetic age of the cerebellum \n\nHuntington's disease has been found to increase the epigenetic aging rates of several human brain regions.\n\nThe offspring of semi-supercentenarians (subjects who reached an age of 105–109 years) have a lower epigenetic age than age-matched controls (age difference=5.1 years in blood) and centenarians are younger (8.6 years) than expected based on their chronological age.\n\nInfection with the Human Immunodeficiency Virus-1 (HIV) is associated with clinical symptoms of accelerated aging, as evidenced by increased incidence and diversity of age-related illnesses at relatively young ages. But it has been difficult to detect an accelerated aging effect on a molecular level. An epigenetic clock analysis of human DNA from HIV+ subjects and controls detected a significant age acceleration effect in brain (7.4 years) and blood (5.2 years) tissue due to HIV-1 infection. These results are consistent with an independent study that also found an age advancement of 5 years in blood of HIV patients and a strong effect of the HLA locus.\n\nA large-scale study suggests that the blood of Parkinson's disease subjects exhibits (relatively weak) accelerated aging effects.\n\nChildren with a very rare disorder known as syndrome X maintain the façade of persistent toddler-like features while aging from birth to adulthood. Since the physical development of these children is dramatically delayed, these children appear to be a toddler or at best a preschooler. According to an epigenetic clock analysis, blood tissue from syndrome X cases is not younger than expected.\n\nThe following results strongly suggest that the loss of female hormones resulting from menopause accelerates the epigenetic aging rate of blood and possibly that of other tissues. First, early menopause has been found to be associated with an increased epigenetic age acceleration of blood. Second, surgical menopause (due to bilateral\noophorectomy) is associated with epigenetic age acceleration in blood and saliva. Third, menopausal hormone therapy, which mitigates hormonal loss, is associated with a negative age acceleration of buccal cells (but not of blood cells). Fourth, genetic markers that are associated with early menopause are also associated with increased epigenetic age acceleration in blood.\n\nA confounding aspect of biological aging is the nature and role of senescent cells. It is unclear whether the three major types of cellular senescence, namely replicative senescence, oncogene-induced senescence and DNA damage-induced senescence are descriptions of the same phenomenon instigated by different sources, or if each of these is distinct, and how they are associated with epigenetic aging.\nInduction of replicative senescence (RS) and oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) were found to be accompanied by epigenetic aging of primary cells but senescence induced by DNA damage was not, even though RS and OIS activate the cellular DNA damage response pathway. These results highlight the independence of cellular senescence from epigenetic aging. Consistent with this, telomerase-immortalised cells continued to age (according to the epigenetic clock) without having been treated with any senescence inducers or DNA-damaging agents, re-affirming the independence of the process of epigenetic ageing from telomeres, cellular senescence, and the DNA damage response pathway.\nAlthough the uncoupling of senescence from cellular aging appears at first sight to be inconsistent with the fact that senescent cells contribute to the physical manifestation of organism ageing, as demonstrated by Baker et al., where removal of senescent cells slowed down aging. However, the epigenetic clock analysis of senescence suggests that cellular senescence is a state that cells are forced into as a result of external pressures such as DNA damage, ectopic oncogene expression and exhaustive proliferation of cells to replenish those eliminated by external/environmental factors. These senescent cells, in sufficient numbers, will probably cause the deterioration of tissues, which is interpreted as organism ageing. However, at the cellular level, aging, as measured by the epigenetic clock, is distinct from senescence. It is an intrinsic mechanism that exists from the birth of the cell and continues. This implies that if cells are not shunted into senescence by the external pressures described above, they would still continue to age. This is consistent with the fact that mice with naturally long telomeres still age and eventually die even though their telomere lengths are far longer than the critical limit, and they age prematurely when their telomeres are forcibly shortened, due to replicative senescence. Therefore, cellular senescence is a route by which cells exit prematurely from the natural course of cellular aging.\n\nMen age faster than women according to epigenetic age acceleration in blood, brain, saliva, and many other tissues.\n\nThe epignetic clock method applies to all examined racial/ethnic groups in the sense that DNAm age is highly correlated with chronological age. But ethnicity can be associated with epigenetic age acceleration. For example, the blood of Hispanics and the Tsimané ages more slowly than that of other populations which might explain the Hispanic mortality paradox.\n\nHematopoietic stem cell transplantation, which transplants these cells from a young donor to an older recipient, rejuvenates the epigenetic age of blood to that of the donor . However, graft-versus-host disease is associated with increased DNA methyhlation age .\n\nAdult progeria also known as Werner syndrome is associated with epigenetic age acceleration in blood.\nFibroblast samples from childen with Hutchinson-Gilford Progeria exhibit accelerated epigenetic aging effects according to the \"skin & blood\" epigenetic clock but not according to the original pan tissue clock from Horvath.\nDespite the fact that biomarkers of ageing based on DNA methylation data have enabled accurate age estimates for any tissue across the entire life course, the precise biological mechanism behind the epigenetic clock is currently unknown. However, epigenetic biomarkers may help to address long-standing questions in many fields, including the central question: why do we age? The following explanations have been proposed in the literature.\n\nHorvath hypothesized that his clock arises from a methylation footprint left by an epigenomic maintenance system.\n\nEndogenous DNA damages occur frequently including about 50 double-strand DNA breaks per cell cycle and about 10,000 oxidative damages per day (see DNA damage (naturally occurring)). During repair of double-strand breaks many epigenetic alterations are introduced, and in a percentage of cases epigenetic alterations remain after repair is completed, including increased methylation of CpG island promoters. Similar, but usually transient epigenetic alterations were recently found during repair of oxidative damages caused by HO, and it was suggested that occasionally these epigenetic alterations may also remain after repair. These accumulated epigenetic alterations may contribute to the epigenetic clock. Accumulation of epigenetic alterations may parallel the accumulation of un-repaired DNA damages that are proposed to cause aging (see DNA damage theory of aging).\n\nSeveral other age estimators have been described in the literature.\n\n1) Weidner et al. (2014) describe an age estimator for DNA from blood that uses only three CpG sites of genes hardly affected by aging (cg25809905 in integrin, alpha 2b (ITGA2B); cg02228185 in aspartoacylase (ASPA) and cg17861230 in phosphodiesterase 4C, cAMP specific (PDE4C)).\nThe age estimator by Weidener et al. (2014) applies only to blood. Even in blood this sparse estimator is far less accurate than Horvath's epigenetic clock (Horvath 2014) when applied to data generated by the Illumina 27K or 450K platforms.\n2) Hannum et al. (2013) report several age estimators: one for each tissue type. Each of these estimators requires covariate information (e.g. gender, body mass index, batch). The authors mention that each tissue led to a clear linear offset (intercept and slope). Therefore, the authors had to adjust the blood-based age estimator for each tissue type using a linear model. When the Hannum estimator is applied to other tissues, it leads to a high error (due to poor calibration) as can be seen from Figure 4A in Hannum et al. (2013). Hannum et al. adjusted their blood-based age estimator (by adjusting the slope and the intercept term) in order to apply it to other tissue types. Since this adjustment step removes differences between tissue, the blood-based estimator from Hannum et al. cannot be used to compare the ages of different tissues/organs. In contrast, a salient characteristic of the epigenetic clock is that one does not have to carry out such a calibration step: it always uses the same CpGs and the same coefficient values. Therefore, Horvath's epigenetic clock can be used to compare the ages of different tissues/cells/organs from the same individual. While the age estimators from Hannum et al. cannot be used to compare the ages of different normal tissues, they can be used to compare the age of a cancerous tissue with that of a corresponding normal (non-cancerous) tissue. Hannum et al. reported pronounced age acceleration effects in all cancers. In contrast, Horvath's epigenetic clock reveals that some cancer types (e.g. triple negative breast cancers or uterine corpus endometrial carcinoma) exhibit negative age acceleration, i.e. cancer tissue can be much younger than expected.\nAn important difference relates to additional covariates. Hannum's age estimators make use of covariates such as gender, body mass index, diabetes status, ethnicity, and batch. Since new data involve different batches, one cannot apply it directly to new data. However, the authors present coefficient values for their CpGs in Supplementary Tables which can be used to define an aggregate measure that tends to be strongly correlated with chronological age but may be poorly calibrated (i.e. lead to high errors).\n\n3.) Giuliani et al. identify genomic regions whose DNA methylation level correlates with age in human teeth. They propose the evaluation of DNA methylation at ELOVL2, FHL2, and PENK genes in DNA recovered from both cementum and pulp of the same modern teeth. They wish to apply this method also to historical and relatively ancient human teeth.\n\nIn a multicenter benchmarking study 18 research groups from three continents compared all promising methods for analyzing DNA methylation in the clinic and identified the most accurate methods, having concluded that epigenetic tests based on DNA methylation are a mature technology ready for broad clinical use.\n\nWang et al., (in mice livers) and Petkovich et al.,(based on mice blood DNA methylation profiles) examined whether mice and humans experience similar patterns of change in the methylome with age. They found that mice treated with lifespan-extending interventions (surch as calorie restriction or dietary rapamycin) were significantly younger in epigenetic age than their untreated, wild-type age-matched controls. Mice age predictors also detects the longevity effects of gene knockouts, and rejuvenation of fibroblast-derived iPSCs.\n\nMice multi-tissue age predictor based on DNA methylation at 329 unique CpG sites reached a median absolute error of less than 4 weeks (~5% of lifespan). \nAn attempt to use the human clock sites in mouse for age predictions showed that human clock is not fully conserved in mouse. Differences between human and mouse clocks suggests that epigenetic clocks need to be trained specifically for different species.\n\nChanges to DNA methylation patterns have great potential for age estimation and biomarker search in domestic and wild animals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1442631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1442631", "title": "Flogsta", "text": "Flogsta\n\nFlogsta is a neighbourhood in the west part of the Swedish city of Uppsala. Most of its inhabitants are students attending Uppsala University or the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences.\nThe neighbourhood is located approximately 2.8 kilometres (about 4 km by road) west of the Uppsala city centre. There are bus connections and bicycle tracks connecting Flogsta to different parts of the town. To the Uppsala University main building, the University Hospital, the Ekonomikum and the Biomedical Centre, the distance is between 2.2 and 2.7 km, while the distance to SLU exceeds 6 km.\n\nThe suburb was known as \"Flogstoghum\" in the Early Middle Ages and was a part of the Church parish of Uppsala. However it was generally thought to be uninhabited until the late 16th century, when it became part of a 'Kronopark' or \"Crown Lands\", a semi-forested area owned directly by the Government and used for Government purposes. Until the 1840s, Flogsta was a small village and was not included within the City Limits of Uppsala. Indeed, until 1869, the city boundary of Uppsala to the West ended at Villavägen-Rackarbergsgatan, a mile west of the Engelska Parken. The city boundary was extended to Krongatan in 1871, to Ekeby in 1892 and to Flogsta in 1908. Large scale habitation and concrete building started only in the 1890s as accommodation for workers in various industries in Central Uppsala, and until the 1910s there were no municipal services in Flogsta. In the 1920s the first suburban houses came up in Flogsta as residences of white collar workers who worked in the City but wished to live close to the countryside. In the 1950s much of the suburb was earmarked for the Million Programme as student housing, and hence the suburb got its present characteristic as a densely populated \"concrete block\" student suburb only by the end of the 1960s.\n\nEvery evening at approximately 22:00, the \"Flogsta scream\" (\"Flogstavrålet\" in Swedish) may be heard, when students individually or collectively let out screams and howls from windows, balconies and roof tops. According to Uppsala University, the collective screaming acts as \"a much needed safety valve\" and \"a cry of angst\" for students stressed by the demands of university life.\n\nThe phenomenon has spread to other university towns and campuses in Sweden, such as Lund, Linköping and the Lappkärrsberget student residence area in Stockholm among others.\n\nShambhala (Music Festival) has actually adopted this and it became the \"Shambhala wave\".\n\nthe attendees used to yell \"Shambhala\" and people would keep the \"wave\" going from one side of the festival to the other but it's devolved into just a normal \"Woooooo\" over the years.\n"}
{"id": "19028160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19028160", "title": "HIV/AIDS in the Philippines", "text": "HIV/AIDS in the Philippines\n\nHIV/AIDS infection in the Philippines might be low but growing. The current incidence of HIV/AIDS in the country remains under 0.1% of the total population in 2015. The Philippines has one of the lowest rates of infection, yet has one of the fastest growing number of cases worldwide. The Philippines is one of seven countries with growth in number of cases of over 25%, from 2001 to 2009.\n\nCases are concentrated among men who have sex with men, and secondarily, among female sex workers. HIV cases among men having sex with men multiplied over 10 times since 2010. HIV cases are getting younger.\n\nThe first case of HIV infection in the Philippines was reported in January 1984. \n\nOfficially, the Philippines is a low-HIV-prevalence country, with less than 0.1 percent of the adult population estimated to be HIV-positive. As of April 2015, the Department of Health (DOH) AIDS Registry in the Philippines reported 24,936 cumulative cases. In April 2015, 560 new cases were reported showing a 42% increase compared to the same period in the previous year. In the year 2014, a total of 6,011 cases of HIV were reported with 91% of the cases being asymptomatic at the time of reporting while 543 cases were diagnosed as AIDS. From 2001 to 2015 the number of cases diagnosed per year increased 37 times, from 174 cases diagnosed in 2001 to 6,552 for the first 10 months on 2015.\n\nIn the years 2010 to 2015, 91% (22,726) of cases were men with a median age of 28 years, with over half (12,616) in the 25-34 age group. 26% (6,529) of men were 20–24 years of age, an increase from 12% in 2005-2009. Since the year 2000, the high-prevalence age group has changed from the 30-39 year old age group being the most affected from years 2000-2004, to the 25-34 age group from years 2005 to 2009, and to 20-29 age group from years 2010-2015.\n\nThe infection rate among men having sex with men has multiplied 10 times from 2010 to 2015. The Department of Health reported in November 2015, that the rate of prevalence has surpassed 5%, the UN's definition of concentrated epidemic, in eight cities Cebu, Cagayan de Oro, Puerto Princesa, Davao, Quezon City, Parañaque and Makati, with Cebu reaching 14%.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1990, 62% (133 of 216) of cases were female. From 2010 to 2015, females only comprised 5% (1017) of the 20,512 reported cases.\n\nFrom January 2010 to April 2015, 82% (20,512) of all cases were reported. At the time of reporting, 93% of these cases were still asymptomatic.\n\nAs of April 2015, 9,838 people living with HIV were undergoing Anti-Retroviral Therapy in 23 treatment hubs.\n\nOverseas Filipino workers account for about 20 percent of all cases.\n\nOf the 24,936 HIV-positive cases reported from 1984 to 2015, 93% (23,291) were infected through sexual contact of which 79% (18,023) was through homosexual and bisexual contact while heterosexual contact comprised the remaining 14% (3,273). 5% (1,096) of cases was caused by needle sharing among injecting drug users, 0.3% (73) through mother-to-child transmission, <0.1% (20) through blood transfusion and needle prick injury <0.1% (3). No data is available for 1.7% (375) of the cases.\n\nCumulative data shows 24% (5,268) were infected through heterosexual contact, 47% (11,023) through homosexual contact, and 30% (7,000) through bisexual contact. From 2007 there has been a shift in the predominant trend of sexual transmission from heterosexual contact (20%) to males having sex with other males (80%)\n\nFrom 1984 to 2015, the region with the most number of reported cases were Metro Manila with 11,081 (44%), Region 4A with 3,230 (13%) cases, Central Visayas with 2,260 (9%) cases, Region 3 with 2,025 (8%) cases and Region 11 with 1,460 (6%) cases. 3,734 (15%) of cases were distributed around the rest of the country while 1,146 (5%) had no data on the region.\n\nMost-at-risk groups include men who have sex with men (MSM), with 395 new human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections among within this group from January to February 2013 alone, 96% up from 2005’s 210 reported infections. A spokesperson of the National Epidemiology Center (NEC) of the Department of Health says that the sudden and steep increase in the number of new cases within the MSM community, particularly in the last three years (309 cases in 2006, and 342 in 2013), is \"tremendously in excess of what (is) usually expected,\" allowing classification of the situation as an \"epidemic\". Of the cumulative total of 1,097 infected MSMs from 1984 to 2008, 49% were reported in the last three years (72% asymptomatic); 108 have died when reported, and slightly more MSMs were reportedly already with AIDS (30%).\n\nAmong MSM's, ninety percent of the newly infected are single (up to 35% of past cases reported involved overseas Filipino workers or OFWs and/or their spouse), with the most of the affected people now only 20 to 34 years old (from 45 to 49 years old in the past). The highest number of infections among MSMs is from Metro Manila. An HIV surveillance study conducted by Dr. Louie Mar Gangcuangco and colleagues from the University of the Philippines-Philippine General Hospital showed that out of 406 MSM tested for HIV from entertainment areas in Metro Manila, HIV prevalence using the rapid test was 11.8% (95% confidence interval: 8.7- 15.0). Increasing infection rates were also noted in the cities of Angeles, Cebu, and Davao. 1 to 3 percent of MSM's were found to be HIV-positive by sentinel surveillance conducted in Cebu and Quezon cities in 2001.\n\nAnother at-risk group are injecting drug users (IDUs), 1 percent of whom were found to be HIV-positive in Cebu City in 2005. A high rate of needle sharing among IDUs in some areas (77 percent in Cebu City) is of concern. Sex workers, because of their infrequent condom use, high rates of sexually transmitted infections (STIs), and other factors, are also considered to be at risk. In 2002, just 6 percent of sex workers interviewed said they used condoms in the last week. As of 2005, however, HIV prevalence among sex workers in Cebu City was relatively low, at 0.2 percent.\n\nThe threats and effects that AIDS/HIV brings to the population is a severe cause for concern. However, the prevalence of virus within the Philippine population remains low despite an increase in the number of cases. In fact, the Philippines qualifies as one of the few countries where the growth of AIDS/HIV cases has approximately increased to 25% from in a span of a couple of years from 2001-2009.\n\nThe rise in the number of cases can be best categorized by specific groups in the population. First, the age group that is most affected are 15–24 years old. Young professionals engaging in unprotected sexual intercourse is the main cause for the contraction and it accounts for one third of the AIDS/HIV-infected population. Furthermore, the infection within this age group is more prevalent with homosexual relationships .\n\nThe regional population that is greatly affected by AID/HIV is in Cebu. The prevalence rate is at 7.7% which is greater than the major cities of Manila at 6.7% and Quezon City at 6.6%. Recent data show that the surge is not caused by transmission through sexual intercourse but through an increase of people injecting drugs. It is not the injectable drugs but the sharing of needles, which opens the risk of transmission of fluids, greatly exposing the risk of contracting the virus .\n\nSeveral factors put the Philippines in danger of a broader HIV/AIDS epidemic. They include increasing population mobility within and outside of the Philippine islands; adverse to publicly discussing issues of a sexual nature; rising levels of sex work, casual sex, unsafe sex, and injecting drug use.\n\nThere is also high STI prevalence and poor health-seeking behaviors among at-risk groups; gender inequality; weak integration of HIV/AIDS responses in local government activities; shortcomings in prevention campaigns; inadequate social and behavioral research and monitoring; and the persistence of stigma and discrimination, which results in the relative invisibility of PLWHA. Lack of knowledge about HIV among the Filipino population is troubling. Approximately two-thirds of young women lack comprehensive knowledge on HIV transmission, and 90 percent of the population of reproductive age believe you can contract HIV by sharing a meal with someone.\n\nThe Philippines has high tuberculosis (TB) incidence, with 131 new cases per 100,000 people in 2005, according to the World Health Organization. HIV infects 0.1 percent of adults with TB. Although HIV-TB co-infection is low, the high incidence of TB indicates that co-infections could complicate treatment and care for both diseases in the future.\n\nWary of Thailand’s growing epidemic in the late 1980s, the Philippines was quick to recognize its own sociocultural risks and vulnerabilities to HIV/AIDS. Early responses included the 1992 creation of the Philippine National AIDS Council (PNAC), the country’s highest HIV/AIDS policymaking body. Members of the Council represent 17 governmental agencies, including local governments and the two houses of the legislature; seven nongovernmental organizations (NGOs); and an association of PLWHA.\n\nThe passing of the Philippine AIDS Prevention and Control Act in 1998 was also a landmark in the country’s fight against HIV/AIDS. However, the Philippines is faced with the challenge of stimulating government leadership action in a low-HIV-prevalence country to advocate for a stronger and sustainable response to AIDS when faced with other competing priorities. One strategy has been to prevent STIs in general, which are highly prevalent in the country.\n\nThe PNAC developed the Philippines’ AIDS Medium Term Plan: 2005–2010 (AMTP IV). The AMTP IV serves as a national road map toward universal access to prevention, treatment, care, and support, outlining country-specific targets, opportunities, and obstacles along the way, as well as culturally appropriate strategies to address them. In 2006, the country established a national monitoring and evaluation system, which was tested in nine sites and is being expanded. Antiretroviral treatment is available free of charge, but only 10 percent of HIV-infected women and men were receiving it as of 2006, according to UNAIDS. This lack of distribution can be attributed to the focus of health spending towards disease specific programs instead of spending on public health which is more comprehensive and addresses multiple diseases. By spending on public health in general, the country would be able to strengthen the health system by creating effective health infrastructures that could carry out vertical programs without creating brain drain or hindering the economic development of the country. Without passable local infrastructure, health improvements would not be possible as distribution of medical care and medicines would be very limited; incidence and prevalence reports may not be accurate, and progress of health initiatives could not be tracked.\n\nPhotographer Niccolo Cosme launched the Red Whistle campaign in 2011, inspired by red disaster preparedness whistles, to raise awareness and understanding of HIV/AIDs in the Philippines.\n\nThe Philippines uses antiretroviral treatment (ART) to treat people with HIV/AIDS. This treatment involves using different kinds of drugs such as zidovudine, lamivudine, and nevirapine.\n\nAnother method that is being used is lab examination, which will help monitor the patient’s ART or antiretroviral drug level. Since treatment for HIV/AIDS is based on a case to case level, this will determine how the patient will be treated.\n\n\"The antiretroviral drug does not kill the virus that causes the disease. It’s simply a way to help fight infection. This way, the patient prolongs his/her life even with the disease. With this being said, patients have to go undergo lab examinations depending on their respective cases and receive this treatment throughout their existence. It is a form of therapy that they would have to undergo.\"\n\n\"The government will handle most of the costs in association with the disease. The initial treatment will costs the government P7,920 a year. As of April 20th, 2015, the Department of Health (DOH) mentioned that they plan to buy P180 million worth of ARV or antiretroviral drugs to be used in ART.\"\n\nThe Philippines passed a legislation on HIV/AIDS during the first decade of Filipino infections. However, the bill's scope was minimal due to the lack of knowledge regarding the virus in the Philippines at the time. In 2016, lawmakers from the House of Representatives passed the \"New HIV bill\", while the Senate's version is in political limbo, as conservative senators, notably Tito Sotto, Manny Pacquiao, Joel Villanueva, and Win Gatchalian have vowed to block the bill in its current form. The bills filed are the most comprehensive in more than 20 years.\n"}
{"id": "37652243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37652243", "title": "HIV and men who have sex with men", "text": "HIV and men who have sex with men\n\nSince reports of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) began to emerge in the United States in the 1980s, the HIV epidemic has frequently been linked to gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) by epidemiologists and medical professionals. The first official report on the virus was published by the Center for Disease Control (CDC) on June 5, 1981 and detailed the cases of five young gay men who were hospitalised with serious infections. A month later, The New York Times reported that 41 homosexuals had been diagnosed with Kaposi’s Sarcoma, and eight had died less than 24 months after the diagnosis was made. By 1982, the condition was referred to in the medical community as (Gay-related immune deficiency (GRID), \"gay cancer,\" and \"gay compromise syndrome.\" It was not until July 1982 that the term Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) was suggested to replace GRID, and even then it was not until September that the CDC first used the AIDS acronym in an official report.\n\nIt is now well understood that HIV does not only affect the gay community but can also infect anybody, regardless of sex, ethnicity, or sexual orientation. However, HIV still severely affects MSM across the globe. MSM are only a small percentage of the U.S. population, but they are consistently the population group most affected by the HIV/AIDS virus and are the largest proportion of American citizens with an AIDS diagnosis who have died. The United Nations estimates that 2 to 20% of MSM are infected with HIV, depending on the region they live in.\n\n\"Smartphone users: article continues below table\"\n\nMen who have sex with men (abbreviated as MSM, also known as males who have sex with males) are male persons who engage in sexual activity with members of the same sex, regardless of how they personally identify themselves. Many MSM choose not to (or cannot for other reasons) identify as homosexual or bisexual. Similarly, the label excludes men who identify as gay or bisexual, but who have never had sex with another man, including many gay teenagers.\n\nThe terms MSM and women who have sex with women (WSW) have been used in medical scholarship since at least 1990. But, the term has been attributed to Glick \"et al.\", because their usage in a 1994 study solidified the concept in medical terminology. MSM is often used in medical literature and social research to describe such men as a group for research studies without considering issues of self-identification because it offers better behavioral categories for the study of disease-risk than identity-based categories (such as \"gay\", \"bisexual\", or \"straight\"), because a man who self-identifies as gay or bisexual is not necessarily sexually active with men, and someone who identifies as straight might be sexually active with men.\n\nDetermining the number of men who have ever had sex with another man is difficult worldwide. The World Health Organization estimates that at least 3% and as high as 16% of men have had sex at least once with a man. Their estimate includes victims of sexual abuse in addition to men who regularly or voluntarily have sex with men. The United Nations estimates that 6-20% of men worldwide have sex with other men at some point during their lifetime.\n\nEstimates about the U.S. population of MSM vary. The Center for Disease Control estimates that men who have sex with men represent about 2% of the American population. A 2005 study estimates that among U.S. men aged 15 to 44, an estimated 6% of have engaged in oral or anal sex with another man at some point in their lives, and about 2.9% have had at least one male partner in the previous 12 months. A 2007 study estimated that they are 7.1 million men who have sex with men (MSM) in the United States, or 6.4% of the overall population. Of these men, 71% are White, 15.9% are Hispanic, and 8.9% are black. The percentage of men who were MSM varied by state, with the lowest percentage in South Dakota (3.3%) and the highest in the District of Columbia (13.2%). However, the same study found that 57% of men who have sex with men identify as bisexual or straight. A 2010 Study estimated that 2.6% had engaged in same-sex behavior in the past year, 4.0% in the past five years, and 7.0% at any point in their lifetime.\n\nThe HIV virus affects the human immune system and, if left untreated can eventually lead to Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS).\n\nThe CDC reported that in 2009 that male-to-male sex (MSM) accounted for 61% of all new HIV infections in the U.S. and that those who had a history of recreational drug injection accounted for an additional 3% of new infections. Among the approximately 784,701 people living with an HIV diagnosis, 396,810 (51%) were MSM. About 48% of MSM living with an HIV diagnosis were white, 30% were black, and 19% were Hispanic or Latino. Although the majority of MSM are white, non-whites accounted for 54% of new infections HIV related MSM infections in 2008.\n\nIn 2010 the CDC reported that MSM represented approximately 4 percent of the male population in the United States but male-to-male sex accounted for 78 percent of new HIV infections among men and 63 percent of all new infections. Men overall accounted for 76% of all adults and adolescents living with HIV infection at the end of 2010 in the United States, and 80% (38,000) of the estimated 47,500 new HIV infections. 69% of men living with HIV were gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men. 39% (14,700) of new HIV infections in US men were in blacks, 35% (13,200) were in whites, and 22% (8,500) were in Hispanics/Latinos. The rate of estimated new HIV infections among black men (per 100,000) was 103.6—six and a half times that of white men (15.8) and more than twice the rate among Hispanic/Latino men (45.5) as of 2010.\n\nThe CDC (2015) reported that gay and bisexual men accounted for 82% (26,375 out of 1,242,000 adults and adolescents) of HIV diagnoses among males and 67% of all diagnoses in the United States, while six percent (2,392) of HIV diagnoses were attributed to injection drug use (IDU) and another 3% (1,202) to male-to-male sexual contact plus IDU. Heterosexual contact accounted for 24% (9,339) of all HIV diagnoses.\n\nAmong all gay and bisexual men with HIV infection classified as AIDS in the United States in 2015, African Americans accounted for the highest number (3,928; 39%), followed by whites (3,096; 31%) and Hispanics/Latinos (2,430; 24%). At the end of 2014, 508,676 gay and bisexual men were living with diagnosed HIV infection (53% of everyone living with diagnosed HIV in the US). Of gay and bisexual men living with diagnosed HIV, 157,758 (31%) were African American, 212,558 (42%) were white, and 109,857 (22%) were Hispanic/Latino. From 2005 to 2014 diagnoses among African American gay and bisexual men increased 22% but has increased less than 1% between 2010 and 2014. HIV diagnoses among African American gay and bisexual men aged 13 to 24 increased 87% between 2005 and 2014, but with diagnoses declining 2% between 2010 and 2014.\nA 2010 study estimated that for every 100,000 MSM, 692 will be diagnosed with HIV. This makes MSM 60 times more likely to contract the virus than other men and 54 times more likely than women.\n\nSince its height in 1993-1994 the death rate due to HIV has fallen more than 9 other leading causes of death, yet as of 2013 HIV continues to be one of the 10 leading causes of death among persons 25-44, especially among men, African Americans and in the South. Also as regards HIV relation to mortality, a study in the United Kingdom reported that in 2008 the overall mortality rate among the HIV-diagnosed population aged 15–59 years remained more than five times higher than that in the general population. However, as the study acknowledges data on the impact of HIV/AIDS on mortality among gay and bisexual men as well as among other populations, is very limited, and methods to use this are problematic.\n\nA 2007 study analyzing two large population surveys found that \"the majority of gay men had similar numbers of unprotected sexual partners annually as straight men and women.\" However, a 2006 study found that men who reported 4 or more male sexual partners were at increased risk of HIV infection. Study participants who reported amphetamine or heavy alcohol use before sex were more likely to have HIV or other sexually transmitted infections.\n\nA Kaiser Family Foundation study indicated that fewer Americans view HIV as a top health priority today compared to ten years ago. In 1996, 25% of Americans viewed HIV as an “urgent problem” to their community but in 2009, only 17% listed it as “urgent.” The percentage of 18- to 29-year-olds that were personally concerned about contracting the virus dropped from 28% in 1995 to 17% in 2009 A study conducted in 6 major U.S. cities found that only one in 4 teenage men who have sex with men believed they were personally at risk for contracting the HIV virus.\n\nThe HIV virus is more easily transmitted through unprotected anal intercourse than through unprotected vaginal intercourse and men who report unprotected receptive anal intercourse are at increased risk of contracting the HIV virus. Generally, the receptive partner is at greater risk of contracting the HIV virus because the lining of the rectum is thin and may allow the virus to enter the body through semen exchange. The insertive partner is also at risk because STIs can enter through the urethra or through small cuts, abrasions, or open sores on the penis. Also, condoms are more likely to break during anal sex than during vaginal sex. Thus, even with a condom, anal sex can be risky. A 2004 study of HIV positive men found men who had unprotected anal intercourse (UAI) in the past year were put at risk for contracting the virus. The study found that men who reported engaging in UAI had increased from 30% in 1996 to 42% in 2000. Almost half of all men who participated in UAI in 1996-1997 said that they had not known the HIV status of their partner Studies have found that risk factors for HIV infection are anal intercourse with a man in the past 12 months, having unstable housing, and having inhaled alkyl nitrites (“poppers”). A 2009 study on the prevalence of unprotected anal intercourse among HIV-diagnosed MSM found that majority protected their partners during sexual activity, but a sizeable number of men continue to engage in sexual behaviors that place themselves and others at risk for HIV infections.\n\nAlthough HIV transmission rates fell throughout the 1990s, they hit a plateau at the end of the decade. The increasing rates of sexually transmitted diseases in major cities in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom led to reports in the gay and mainstream media of condom fatigue and \"AIDS optimism\" as causes of the new \"laxness\" in safe sex practices. This is supported by research on the tendency of couples (heterosexual or homosexual) to use condoms less over time.\nA 2010 study found that gay and bisexual men choose to have unprotected sex for a variety of reasons and cannot be generalized. Erectile dysfunction, mental health problems and depression, lack of communication or intimacy, and a subculture of unprotected sex were all listed as reasons why men had sex without condoms voluntarily.\n\nIn the late 1980s the first direct advocacy groups for people with HIV/AIDS were created. Notably, the AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP) formed at the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center in New York in the wake of the antiretroviral drug AZT to petition better access to drugs as well as cheaper prices, public education about AIDS and the prohibition of AIDS-related discrimination.\n\nThe Joint United Nations Program on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) published a paper in 2005 offering specific policy solutions for alleviating the spread of the HIV virus in the MSM population for specific regions around the world. They pointed to “a profound lack of knowledge” and stigma about sexual identity as worldwide barriers to preventing transmission and encouraging those infected to seek treatment. The UNAIDS program has recommended that the South African government implement “sex positive” policies to reduce societal stigma around homosexuality and promote the use of water-based lubricants. Particularly in Morocco, the program has advocated distributing condoms in prisons. In recent years, the Chinese government has begun to acknowledge the sexuality of its constituents. According to UNAIDS, the “Government has made significant progress in recognizing the issue of male-to-male sexual health and HIV.” In Latin America, outreach to rural areas is critical to ensuring care to all individuals. The United Nations also emphasizes a focus on LGBT populations that are most vulnerable in Latin American nations. In Jamaica, as in many countries across the globe, homosexuality is outlawed so there are unique challenges to HIV prevention in the MSM community. The UN is trying to implement community-based strategies in Jamaica while still ensuring the anonymity of the people served. In Norway, UNAIDS has observed an increasing number of MSM who have untreated sexually transmitted infections, and their emphasis is on promoting condom use within the gay community. Despite Canada’s “liberal and progressive” reputation on the world stage, HIV-related stigma is still related to the gay community. The United Nations believes the United States needs to recognize sexual education as a fundamental human right. Additionally, better research on MSM in the U.S. would positively affect funding for HIV prevention and treatment programs.\n\nStudies have shown that although there is a large market for vaginal microbicides in developing nations, rectal microbicides are stigmatized and less researched. No microbicide has yet been proven to effectively protect against the risks of unprotected anal intercourses, but advocates believe greater funding for research is needed since condom usage rates are so low. However, stigma and homophobia would potentially be barriers to individuals buying the product. The authors mention this is especially a concern in Caribbean countries where HIV prevalence is high but homosexuality is still illegal and highly stigmatized (See HIV/AIDS in the Caribbean.) \n\nUNAIDS has observed “sero-selection” (choosing a partner based on their HIV status) becoming increasingly prevalent in partner choice and transmission in the United States. A 2008 CDC study found that one in five (19%) of MSM in major U.S. cities were infected with HIV and almost half (44%) were unaware of their infection. Many HIV-infected individuals do not seek treatment until late in their infection (an estimated 42% do not seek treatment until they begin to experience signs of illness.) Furthermore, a significant portion of individuals who are tested for HIV never return for their test results. Studies have advocated for funding and implementation of HIV tests that can be administered outside medical settings since 2003. Home testing is considered especially important because 8%-39% of partners tested in studies of partner counseling and referral services (PCRS) were found to have a previously undiagnosed HIV infection that their partner was unaware of.\n\nIn October 2012, OraQuick, the first rapid HIV home-testing kit, went on sale for $40. The test is nearly 100% accurate when it predicts HIV-negative results for HIV-negative individuals. However, for HIV-positive individuals that are not yet producing the antibodies detected by the test, it produces a false negative 93% of the time. Although the manufacturer, OraSure Technologies, is not advertising the test for use for selection of partners, experts have suggested that it may prevent unprotected sexual contact with partners that lie about or are unaware of their HIV status.\n\nA recent study examined how the OraQuick test would identify the behavior of 27 self-identified gay men who frequently had unprotected sex with acquaintances. The researchers gave each participant 16 tests to use over the course of three months. 101 potential partners were tested, and 10 were positive. None of the participants had sex with someone who tested positive. 23 other potential partners refused testing and left the encounter. 2 men admitted they were HIV-positive. Most participants said they would continue using home tests after the study ended to test potential partners on their own. The researchers considered home testing to be an effective prevention method for high-risk groups. However, the test’s $40 cost is considered a major deterrent to commonplace partner testing. \n"}
{"id": "24118774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24118774", "title": "Health in Italy", "text": "Health in Italy\n\nItaly is known for its generally very good health system, considering the fact that it has the world's 6th highest life expectancy in 2015 (according to World Health Organization), low infant mortality, relatively healthy cuisine and diet, and healthcare system that is ranked 2nd according to World Health Organization and which has the third best medical performance worldwide. As with any developed country, Italy has adequate and sufficient water and food distribution, and levels of nutrition and sanitation are high.\n\nItaly has a good and sufficient water supply, yet, especially due to droughts, common in the summer (notably in Southern Italy), water shortages can frequently occur. Italians consume a very high amount of mineral water, the highest compared to equivalent neighbours: in 1992, the average person in Italy drank 116 litres, compared to 105 in Belgium, 93 in Germany and 80 in France. According to studies, 18 million people in Italy annually are confronted with at least one slight water shortage, and 18% of Italian families have been recorded as having irregular distribution patterns. Some water distribution is also uneven, and can be explained by economic factors; for example, people in Lombardy, Italy's richest region, drink nine times more bottled water than Campania, one of the country's poorest.\n\nA problem which often presents itself regarding drinking water is water pollution and the presence of harmful purifying chemicals and/or herbicides, which can cause several health problems. According to a decree issued by the state, the maximum presence of herbicides or similar materials in Italy drinking water is 0.5 μg per litre.\n\nItaly's nutritious and generally healthy cuisine ensures that Italians are well-nourished and eat good food. The relatively recent addition of several drugs to meats has meant that controls have increased from 4,000 in 1988 to 56,831 in 1991.\n\nBeing a relatively warm and sunny country, Italians are often exposed to direct radiation from the sun (ultraviolet radiation), which, if not protected from sun cream or block, can create carcinogenic skin diseases, such as skin cancer. Despite this, the greatest risk from exposure to radiation is found indoors.\n\nItaly has one of the highest life expectancies in the world. Italy's high average varies greatly by regions. In the more affluent north, the life expectancy at birth in 1990 for a man was lower than in Italy's south (73.3 compared to 74.2). For a woman, the average is higher in the north than in the south (80.6 compared to 79.8). Central Italy has the highest average, with 74.7 for men and 81.0 for women. \n\nIn 2003, the average national life expectancy at birth for a woman was 78~84, and for a man 71~77. By 2009, this average had increased to 77.26 for men, and 83.33 for women.\n\nItaly also has a very low rate of infant mortality, that of 5.51 out of 1000 people, the 185th lowest in the world. From 1970 to 1989, the death rate went down dramatically, from 11 and 10.3 for men and women, to 8.3 and 6.7.\n\nIn 2015 Liguria had the highest cancer mortality of any region in Europe, at 377 per 100,000 population.\n\nThe Italian vaccination system is complex because services and decisions are delivered by 21 separate regional authorities creates many variations. There is a National committee on immunizations that updates the national recommended immunization schedule, with input from the ministry of health representatives, regional health authorities, national institute of health, and other scientific societies. Regions may add more scheduled vaccinations, but cannot exempt citizens from nationally mandated or recommended ones. A nationwide plan for eliminating measles and rubella began in 2001. \n\nChildhood vaccinations included in national schedules are free for all Italian children and foreign children who live in the country. Estimated coverage for the required three doses of HBV-Hib-IPV vaccines is at least 95% of 2 year olds. Influenza is the only nationally necessary vaccine for adults, and is administered by general practitioners. Italy has a national vaccine injury compensation program. One evaluation of vaccine coverage in 2010, which covered the 2008 birth cohort, showed a slight decline in immunization insurance coverage rates of diphtheria, hepatitis B, polio, and tetanus after those specific vaccinations had been made mandatory. However, vaccination levels continued to pass the Italian government's goal of 95% outreach. \n\nAiming to integrate immunization strategies across the country and equitize access to disease prevention, the Italian Ministry of Health issued the National Immunization Prevention Plan (Piano Nazionale Prevenzione Vaccinale) in 2012 which proposed an institutional \"lifecourse\" approach to vaccination. HPV vaccine coverage increased, and pneumococcal vaccine and meningococcal C vaccines had a positive public reception. However, both infant vaccine coverage rates and influenza immunization in the elderly have been decreasing. A 2015 government plan in Italy aimed to boost vaccination rates and introduce a series of new vaccines, and triggered protests among public health professionals. Partially in response to the statistic that less than 86% of Italian children receive the measles shot, the National Vaccination Plan for 2016–18 (PNPV) increased vaccination requirements. Varicella shots would be required for newborns. Under this plan, government spending on vaccines would double to €620 million annually, and children could be barred from attending school without proving vaccination. Although these implementations would make Italy a European frontrunner in vaccination, some experts questioned the need for several of the vaccines, and some physicians worried about the potential punishment they may face if they do not comply with the proposed regulations.\n\nThere were 5,000 cases of measles in 2017, up from 870 in 2016, 29% of all those in the European Union. The law compelling children to have 10 vaccinations in order to enrol at state schools came into effect in March 2018 but in August 2018 the Five Star Movement pushed legislation through the Italian Senate abolishing it. It has not yet passed the Chamber of Deputies but parents do not now have to provide schools with a doctor’s note to show their children have been vaccinated.\n\nSmoking in Italy has decreased greatly in the past decades for men, yet women have had a less definitive pattern. From a country where in 1966 a 68.5% average of the male population smoked, this had gone down to a ~37% average in 1991. For women, it increased from ~15% for women in 1966, to ~16.5%, notably in the centre, where it has gone up from 15% to 20.1%.\n\n"}
{"id": "16540545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16540545", "title": "Health in the Philippines", "text": "Health in the Philippines\n\nIn response to the Millennium Development Goals' focus on maternal and child health, the Philippines began the National Demographic and Health Survey in 1968 to assess the effectiveness of public health programs in the country.\n\nPoor communities suffer a higher burden of disease due to inequities in access to services and health status. Since financing for local government units often vary and the benefits package for insurance plans may be unfavorable, some communities face difficulties accessing public health services. Shifting the responsibility of healthcare from the federal government to the local governments has increased local authority and has made communities susceptible to lack of access to basic services. In addition, most healthcare payments are made out of pocket, especially when receiving care from privately owned institutions. Barangay health stations serve as primary public health facilities and are staffed by doctors, nurses, midwives, and barangay health volunteers.\n\nThere is no requirement in the Philippines for causes of death to be medically determined prior to registration of a death, so national statistics as to causes of death in the Philippines cannot be accurately substantiated. In the provinces, especially in places more remote from registries, births and deaths are often not recorded unless some family need arises, such as entry into college. When there is no legal process needed to pass on inheritance, the recording of deaths is viewed as unnecessary by the family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47408230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47408230", "title": "Healthcare in Qatar", "text": "Healthcare in Qatar\n\nHealthcare standards in Qatar are generally high. Qatari citizens are covered by a national health insurance scheme, while expatriates must either receive health insurance from their employers, or in the case of the self-employed, purchase insurance. Qatar's healthcare spending is among the highest in the Middle East, with $4.7 billion being invested in healthcare in 2014. This was a $2.1 bllion increase from 2010. The premier healthcare provider in the country is the Hamad Medical Corporation, established by the government as a non-profit healthcare provider, which runs a network of hospitals, an ambulance services, and a home healthcare service, all of which are accredited by the Joint Commission.\n\nDevelopment in healthcare was expedited in the mid-1900s after the country saw considerable monetary returns from the oil industry re-allocated into the expansion of the healthcare system. Currently, health coverage is nationwide. Qatar has made developing a world class public health system one of its key goals through its National Vision 2030 initiative.\n\nIn 2012, the country announced its plans to introduce a universal health care system. The universal health care program has 5 stages, to be fully implemented by 2015. In the \" 2014 GCC Healthcare Report\" released by Alpen International, Qatar's healthcare sector was ranked as the fastest growing in the GCC.\n\nThe Supreme Council of Health, which oversees the health sector, announced the \"Qatar Health Facilities Master Plan\" (QHFMP) program in 2014. As part of the program, as many as 48 healthcare infrastructure projects are set to be developed in Qatar by 2020. It is intended to foster competition between state and private health providers. A Qatar Medical Research Council has been established. The Sidra Medical and Research Center, planned to open in 2017 is to translate research into practical treatments.\n\nThe Medical School at Qatar University is to open in 2015. The Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar has been training clinicians since 2002. About 10% of the healthcare workforce are Qataris.\n\nThe government has established the National Health Insurance Company which manages and operates Seha, the national health insurance scheme. From July 2013 it has covered Qatari females aged 12 and above for gynaecology, obstetrics, maternity and related women’s health conditions. From 30 April 2014, it provides comprehensive insurance coverage to Qatari nationals for basic health care needs, which includes almost all medical, dental and optical treatment except cosmetic surgery, alternative medicine and over-the-counter drugs.\n\nIt is intended to extend the scheme to foreign workers from 2016.\n\nIn 2010, spending on healthcare accounted for 2.2% of the country's GDP; the highest in the Middle East. In 2006, there were 23.12 physicians and 61.81 nurses per 10,000 inhabitants. The life expectancy at birth was 82.08 years in 2014, or 83.27 years for males and 77.95 years for females, rendering it the highest life expectancy in the Middle East. Qatar has a low infant mortality rate of 7 in 100,000.\n\nIn 2006, there were a total of 25 beds per 10,000 people, and 27.6 doctors and 73.8 nurses per 10,000 people. In 2011, the number of beds decreased to 12 per 10,000 people, whereas the number of doctors increased to 28 per 10,000 people. While the country has one of the lowest proportions of hospital beds in the region, the availability of physicians is the highest in the GCC.\n\n, Qatar had four public and five private hospitals.\n\nAn under-construction hospital called Sidra Medical and Research Center is set to be the first of its kind in the Middle East region. Endowed with $7.9 billion by Qatar Foundation, it is a large-scale project designed with state-of-the-art healthcare and education facilities intended to provide health services to the whole GCC region.\n\nHamad Medical Corporation (HMC), affiliated with Cornell University, is the premier non-profit health care provider in the country. Established in Doha in 1979 by Emiri decree, HMC manages six highly specialised hospitals and a health care centre: Hamad General Hospital, Rumailah Hospital, Women’s Hospital, Psychiatric Hospital, Al Khor Hospital,Al Wakra Hospital and the Primary Health Care Centre. It also runs the national ambulance service and a home healthcare service. There are about 500,000 visits to the emergency room each year.\n\nThe main private hospitals in the country are Al Ahli Hospital, Doha Clinic Hospital, Al Emadi Hospital, and The American Hospital.\n\nAster Medical Centre, a division of Aster DM Healthcare, has completed more than 13 years of care in Qatar, in line with the motto ‘We Will Treat You Well’. Aster DM Healthcare, the Dubai-based Healthcare conglomerate expanded their operations network to Qatar in the year 2003 and now operates six medical centres, six pharmacies and one diagnostic centres in various parts of the country. The Aster Clinics and pharmacies are located at residential and business districts including C - Ring Road, Old Al ghanim, Al Hilal, Al Rayyan, Al Khor and Industrial area. New 50 bedded Aster hospital, the first expatriate’s hospital in Qatar will be start working by the mid of 2016.\n\nThe Supreme Council of Health (SCH), created in 2005, is responsible for regulating Qatar's healthcare system. In December 2015, the council published the first patients' right charter in the country.\n\nBefore oil was discovered, healthcare consisted of traditional medicine: barbers performed circumcisions and other minor procedures, and herbalists dispensed natural remedies. Cauterization was a prominent practice in folk medicine. Before embarking on a pearl diving trip, a sailor would often be cauterized to prevent ear problems from developing. The practice was also used to cure a number of illnesses. Abdulaziz bin Ahmed Al Thani, a state official during the 1930s and member of the ruling family of Qatar, was noted for his curing of illnesses by using cauterization. Cupping therapy was also a prominent feature of folk medicine. It was commonly used in conjunction with herbal therapy, a form of treatment which utilized traditional herbs in Islamic medicine. Bitter aloe was the most prized herb. Other natural remedies used by Qataris include incense, thyme and saffron. Locusts were also venerated for their purported healing abilities in local nomadic culture and were considered a delicacy because of their nutritious properties, leading to their additional use as livestock feed. Of all the forms of folk medicine, herbal therapy was the most popular. Traditional practices were seldom documented, instead being passed down through oral methods.\n\nIn 1943, emir Abdullah bin Jassim opted to establish the country's first hospital in order to provide treatment for his son, Hamad bin Abdullah. Prior to this, Qatari residents had to travel abroad in order to receive treatment for more severe illnesses, most typically going to the American Mission hospitals in Kuwait, Oman, or Bahrain, or to Iran. Because of Abdullah bin Jassim's lack of resources, he sought help from the British political resident in Qatar. The representative rejected his proposal, and he turned to the American Mission, who agreed to help fund and construct a hospital. The hospital opened in 1947 with a 12-bed capacity and was staffed by a single doctor from the American Mission who was rotated on a recurrent basis. By 1948, it was visited by approximately 75 out-patients per day. The American Mission ceased sending staff members to the hospital in the late 1940s or early 1950s, and as a result, the government assumed full responsibility for its operation. Al Rumailah Hospital, the first government hospital in the country, was founded in 1957. Plans for its establishment were drawn up in the early 1950s and the patent for its design was awarded by the Royal Institute of British Architects to two British architects in 1952.\n\nThe development of social services, including health care, accelerated after the accession in 1972 of Khalifa bin Hamad, who dramatically altered the allocation of oil revenues. This included transferring the ruler's 25 percent of oil revenues to the state budget. However, the health budget soon suffered because of the downturns in oil revenues. In 1986, for example, there were cuts of 10 percent in clinic staff.\n\nHealth in Qatar\n"}
{"id": "52638327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52638327", "title": "Healthcare in Saint Helena", "text": "Healthcare in Saint Helena\n\nHealthcare in Saint Helena is provided by the Health Directorate on the British island of Saint Helena which has a staff of about 250.\n\nThe directorate manages a small general hospital with 54 beds, a dispensary, a complex for care of the elderly, centres for the acute and chronically mentally infirm and the mentally and physically handicapped. There are several outpatient clinics, a pharmacy and laboratory, and dental care. There are six rural health clinics which are visited regularly by the doctors, dentist and community nurses. The resident staff include a senior medical officer, three medical officers and a dentist with annual visits by an optometrist and ophthalmic surgeon.\n\nin 2006 the service had a portable x-ray machine, a Siemens ultrasound and a retinal camera. About 20 patients a year are referred, usually to Cape Town, for scans.\n\nIf necessary, serious or complex cases are transferred to South Africa or the United Kingdom.\n\nCharges are payable for treatment. Costs for primary care for the local population, and emergency treatment for UK residents are modest, and rise to a maximum of £183.95 (2016 scale) for surgery. For visitors and non residents they are much more substantial, with a maximum of £2880.20 (2014 scale) for surgery. Comprehensive medical insurance is compulsory for visitors and non-residents.\n\nThe British Government’s Department for International Development provides support and advice to the St Helena government and produced a report on \"Cost-effective Delivery of Specialist Medical Services to the St. Helena Population\" in 2006. The report showed that expenditure on health had risen from £1,154,675 in 1993/4 to £2,050,830 in 2000/1, but was still less than 50% of the level spent on health care in the UK. Between 2000 and 2006 cancer was the most costly diagnosis in terms of referral to services off the island (45% of total cost) followed by cardiology (13%), spinal (10%), urology (8%) and orthopaedic diagnoses (8%). These 5 diagnoses accounted for 84% of the total referral cost. \n\nThe total referral cost increased by a factor of 4 between 2004 and 2005. 106 referrals were expected in 2006 where the average for earlier years was about 35. Between 2000 and 2004 the average cost of a referral was £4,000 but in 2005 it was over £12,000. The average age of patients referred also increased from 35 to 56.\n\nLife expectancy is 3-3.5 years less than the United Kingdom. The Infant Mortality Rate has been reduced from 44.7 per thousand live births in 1981 to 3.9 in 2000/1.\n\nIncome inequality on the island is modest. The highest salary is 4.6 times that of the lowest paid person in full-time employment.\n"}
{"id": "18014712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18014712", "title": "Hong Sun Huot", "text": "Hong Sun Huot\n\nHong Sun Huot the Cambodian Minister of Health and Chairman of the National AIDS Authority, as well as a Senior Minister. He belongs to Funcinpec and was elected to represent Kandal Province in the National Assembly of Cambodia in 2003. Hong is a third generation Chinese-Cambodian, with ancestral roots hailing from Chaozhou. His Chinese Family is 杨 (Yang)。\n"}
{"id": "55382217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55382217", "title": "Hortense Aka-Anghui", "text": "Hortense Aka-Anghui\n\nHortense Aka-Anghui (December 18, 1933 – September 30, 2017) was an Ivorian politician.\n\nBorn Hortense Dadié in Agboville, Aka-Anghui is the sister of Bernard Dadié. She was elected to the National Assembly as a member of the Democratic Party of Côte d'Ivoire – African Democratic Rally in 1965, later serving as vice-president of the Assembly and remaining a member until 1990; with Gladys Anoma and Jeanne Gervais she was one of the first women elected to that body. From 1980 until 2017 she served as mayor of Port-Bouët. She also served as the Minister for Women's Affairs from 1986 to 1990, and from 1984 until 1991 as president of the Association des Femmes Ivoriennes. She has served as well as a member of the Central Committee and the Political Bureau of her political party. Aka-Anghui trained as a pharmacist, earning a doctorate from the University of Paris in 1961, and operated a pharmacy and medical laboratory in Treichville, in which town she had been raised, prior to entering politics.\n"}
{"id": "471315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471315", "title": "Inari Ōkami", "text": "Inari Ōkami\n\nBy the 16th century Inari had become the patron of blacksmiths and the protector of warriors, and worship of Inari spread across Japan in the Edo period. Inari is a popular figure in both Shinto and Buddhist beliefs in Japan. More than one-third (32,000) of the Shinto shrines in Japan are dedicated to Inari. Modern corporations, such as cosmetic company Shiseido, continue to revere Inari as a patron kami, with shrines atop their corporate headquarters.\n\nInari's foxes, or \"kitsune\", are pure white and act as their messengers.\n\nInari has been depicted both as male and as female. The most popular representations of Inari, according to scholar Karen Ann Smyers, are a young female food goddess, an old man carrying rice, and an androgynous bodhisattva. No one view is correct; the preferred gender of depiction varies according to regional traditions and individual beliefs. Because of their close association with \"kitsune\", Inari is often believed to be a fox; though this belief is widespread, both Shinto and Buddhist priests discourage it. Inari also appears in the form of a snake or dragon, and one folktale has Inari appear to a wicked man in the shape of a monstrous spider as a way of teaching him a lesson.\n\nInari is sometimes identified with other mythological figures. Some scholars suggest that Inari is the figure known in classical Japanese mythology as Ukanomitama or the \"Kojiki's\" Ōgetsu-Hime; others suggest Inari is the same figure as Toyouke. Some take Inari to be identical to any grain \"kami\".\n\nInari's female aspect is often identified or conflated with Dakiniten, a Buddhist deity who is a Japanese transformation of the Indian \"dakini\", or with Benzaiten of the Seven Lucky Gods. Dakiniten is portrayed as a female or androgynous bodhisattva riding a flying white fox. Inari's association with Buddhism may have begun in the 8th century, when Shingon Buddhist monk and founder, Kūkai, took over administration of the temple of Tōji, and chose Inari as a protector of the temple. Thus, Inari is still closely associated with Shingon Buddhism to this day.\n\nInari is often venerated as a collective of three deities (\"Inari sanza\"); since the Kamakura period, this number has sometimes increased to five \"kami\" (\"Inari goza\"). However, the identification of these \"kami\" has varied over time. According to records of Fushimi Inari, the oldest and perhaps most prominent Inari shrine, these \"kami\" have included Izanagi, Izanami, Ninigi, and Wakumusubi, in addition to the food deities previously mentioned. The five \"kami\" today identified with Inari at Fushimi Inari are Ukanomitama, Sarutahiko, Omiyanome, Tanaka, and Shi. However, at Takekoma Inari, the second-oldest Inari shrine in Japan, the three enshrined deities are Ukanomitama, Ukemochi, and Wakumusubi. According to the Nijūni shaki, the three \"kami\" are Ōmiyame no mikoto (water,) Ukanomitama no mikoto (grain,) and Sarutahiko no mikami (land.)\n\nThe fox and the wish-fulfilling jewel are prominent symbols of Inari. Other common elements in depictions of Inari, and sometimes of their \"kitsune\", include a sickle, a sheaf or sack of rice, and a sword. Another belonging was their whip—although they were hardly known to use it, it was a powerful weapon that was used to burn people's crops of rice.\n\nThe origin of Inari worship is not entirely clear. The first recorded use of the present-day \"kanji\" (\"characters\") of Inari's name, which mean \"carrying rice\", (literally \"rice load\") was in the \"Ruijū Kokushi\" in 892 AD. Other sets of \"kanji\" with the same phonetic readings, most of which contained a reference to rice, were in use earlier, and most scholars agree that the name \"Inari\" is derived from . The worship of Inari is known to have existed as of 711 AD, the official founding date of the shrine at Inari Mountain in Fushimi, Kyoto. Scholars such as Kazuo Higo believe worship was conducted for centuries before that date; they suggest that the Hata clan began the formal worship of Inari as an agriculture \"kami\" in the late fifth century. The name Inari does not appear in classical Japanese mythology.\n\nBy the Heian period, Inari worship began to spread. In 823 AD, after Emperor Saga presented the Tō-ji temple to Kūkai, the founder of the Shingon Buddhist sect, the latter designated Inari as its resident protector \"kami\". In 827, the court granted Inari the lower fifth rank, which further increased the deity's popularity in the capital. Inari's rank was subsequently increased, and by 942, Emperor Suzaku granted Inari the top rank in thanks for overcoming rebellions. At this time, the Fushimi Inari-taisha shrine was among the twenty-two shrines chosen by the court to receive imperial patronage, a high honor. The second Inari shrine, Takekoma Inari, was established in the late ninth century.\n\nInari's popularity continued to grow. The Fushimi shrine, already a popular pilgrimage site, gained wide renown when it became an imperial pilgrimage site in 1072. By 1338, the shrine's festival was said to rival the Gion Festival in splendor.\n\nIn 1468, during the Ōnin War, the entire Fushimi shrine complex was burned. Rebuilding took about thirty years; the new building was consecrated in 1499. While the old complex had enshrined three \"kami\" in separate buildings, the new one enshrined five \"kami\" in a single building. The new shrine also included a Buddhist temple building for the first time, and the hereditary priesthood was expanded to include the Kada clan.\nDuring the Edo period, Inari worship spread across Japan; it became especially prominent in Edo. Smyers attributes this spread to the movement of \"daimyōs\" (feudal lords). Inari had by the sixteenth century become the patron of blacksmiths and the protector of warriors—for this reason, many castle compounds in Japan contain Inari shrines—and the \"daimyōs\" took their belief in their protector \"kami\" with them when they relocated to a new domain. Inari's divine role continued to expand; on the coast, they became a protector of fishermen; in Edo, they were invoked to prevent fires. They became the patron of actors and of prostitutes, since their shrines were often found near the pleasure quarters where these individuals lived. They began to be worshipped as the \"Desire-Fulfilling Inari\", a deity of luck and prosperity; a common saying in Osaka was \"Byō Kōbō, yoku Inari\" (\"For sickness [pray to] Kōbō, for desires [pray to] Inari\"). Inari also began to be petitioned for good health; they are credited with curing such diverse afflictions as coughs, toothaches, broken bones, and syphilis. Women prayed to Inari to grant them children.\n\nAfter a government decree mandated the separation of Buddhist and Shinto beliefs, many Inari shrines underwent changes. At Fushimi Inari, for instance, structures that were obviously Buddhist were torn down. Among the populace, however, the blended form of worship continued. Some Buddhist temples, such as Toyokawa Inari, maintained Inari worship by arguing that they had always been devoted to a Buddhist deity (often Dakiniten), which the common folk had mistaken as Inari.\n\nIn the Tokugawa period, when money replaced rice as the measure of wealth in Japan, Inari's role as a \"kami\" of worldly prosperity was expanded to include all aspects of finance, business, and industry. At the beginning of the eighteenth century, followers of Inari at the Ginza mint struck coins meant for offerings to Inari, which featured pictures of two foxes and a jewel or the characters for \"long life\" and \"good luck\".\n\nInari is a popular deity with shrines and temples located throughout most of Japan. According to a 1985 survey by the National Association of Shinto Shrines, 32,000 shrines—more than one-third of Shinto shrines in Japan—are dedicated to Inari. This number includes only Shinto shrines with full-time resident priests; if small roadside or field shrines, shrines kept in a home or corporate office, smaller shrines without full-time resident priests, and Buddhist temples were included, the number would increase by at least an order of magnitude.\n\nThe entrance to an Inari shrine is usually marked by one or more vermilion torii and some statues of \"kitsune\", which are often adorned with red \"yodarekake\" (\"votive bibs\") by worshippers out of respect. This red color has come to be identified with Inari, because of the prevalence of its use among Inari shrines and their torii. The main shrine is the Fushimi Inari Shrine in Fushimi, Kyoto, Japan, where the paths up the shrine hill are marked in this fashion. The \"kitsune\" statues are at times taken for a form of Inari, and they typically come in pairs, representing a male and a female. These fox statues hold a symbolic item in their mouths or beneath a front paw—most often a jewel and a key, but a sheaf of rice, a scroll, or a fox cub are all common. Almost all Inari shrines, no matter how small, will feature at least a pair of these statues, usually flanking or on the altar or in front of the main sanctuary. The statues are rarely realistic; they are typically stylized, portraying a seated animal with its tail in the air looking forward. Despite these common characteristics, the statues are highly individual in nature; no two are quite the same.\n\nOfferings of rice, sake, and other food are given at the shrine to appease and please these \"kitsune\" messengers, who are then expected to plead with Inari on the worshipper's behalf. Inari-zushi, a Japanese sushi roll of packaged fried tofu, is another popular offering. Fried tofu is believed to be a favorite food of Japanese foxes, and an Inari-zushi roll has pointed corners that resemble fox ears, thus reinforcing the association. Priests do not normally offer these foods to the deity, but it is common for shops that line the approach to an Inari shrine to sell fried tofu for devotees to offer. Fox statues are often offered to Inari shrines by worshippers, and on occasion a stuffed and mounted fox is presented to a temple. At one time, some temples were home to live foxes that were venerated, but this is not current practice.\n\nInari's traditional festival day was the first horse day (the sixth day) of the second month (\"nigatsu no hatsuuma\") of the lunisolar calendar.\n\nIn some parts of Kyūshū, a festival or praying period begins five days before the full moon in November; occasionally it is extended to a full week. This is accompanied by bringing offerings of rice products to a shrine to Inari each day and receiving \"o-mamori\" (\"protection charms\"). \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40847292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40847292", "title": "Institutionalization of children with disabilities in Russia", "text": "Institutionalization of children with disabilities in Russia\n\nInstitutionalization of children with disabilities is the placement of children, who have been abandoned or whose parents cannot support them, into a facility which can be similar to an orphanage. This often occurs in countries where alternative methods of care are not available. The definition of an institution can be ambiguous; the \"Report of the Ad Hoc Expert Group on the Transition from Institutional to Community-based Care\" defines an institution based on the following guidelines:\n\nIn 1917, the Russian Revolution resulted in Soviet ideology that centered around the idea of creating a society free of anomalies. As such, children born with disabilities were considered \"defective,\" and the \"policy on \"defectology\" was developed through resolutions passed by the Council of Ministers of the USSR.\" According to law, parents had to send their children to institutions, as familial care was viewed as inadequate for the upbringing of children with special needs; the state found it necessary to correct such disabilities, and the provision of necessary treatment was promised. Such policies were influenced by Lev Vygotsky's Institute of Defectology, which was based on the idea that all children should be corrected to have normal functioning. If they were unable to participate and meet the requirements of \"normal\" standards when attending school, they were considered to be \"uneducable\" and were subject to a life of institutionalization, isolated and segregated from the public. Schools did not have the flexibility to adjust to their needs. The establishment of social segregation was widely accepted, and a distinct separation between individuals with disabilities and the rest of society was part of everyday life in Russia. Early isolation of these individuals was not specific to the early years, as it continued unto adult life due to laws that grouped citizens with disabilities into one area of employment, further alienating them from society.\n\nThe 1998 report \"Findings and Recommendations of a UNICEF Sponsored Fact-finding Mission to the Russian Federation\" found instances of children left neglected and constricted with restraints, as well as cases of stereotypies, such as self-inflicted physical harm and rocking in Russian institutions. Also observed was the confinement of children to a bed-ridden state for hours and days and the segregation of older children into separate institutional classrooms, where they were subject to inadequate education. The report attributed such conditions to lack of necessary resources and overworked staff, who are unable to provide the necessary care to all children. \n\nResearch related to institutional care has been conducted in various European countries and found that these types of environments lead to a plethora of negative consequences. The following are common effects:\n\nIn 1993, the Russian constitution incorporated articles that included protection for children. The implementation of these articles were to be secured through various regulations, as well as the Federal Law on Basic Guarantees of the Rights of the Child, which was initiated on July 21, 1998 and incorporates the principles outlined in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Despite these laws, services in Russia for children with disabilities reflect the attitudes established during the Soviet Era, as parents report that they are still encouraged to leave their children to institutional care. Recently, more families have ignored this advice and opt to care for their children even though some have had to follow the initial advice at a later time due to financial difficulties. Mothers also report facing general hostility from society when opting to take care of their children instead placing them in a government facility, and stigmas concerning disability are still prevalent in Russian society.\n\nWhen newborns to four-year-olds are abandoned by their parents for various reasons, they are taken to Baby Houses, which are under the regulation of the Ministry of Health. Those that are four years of age are then evaluated to determine what institution they should be assigned. Institutions regulated by the Ministry of Education and Science house those deemed educable, and other children, determined to be uneducable, go to institutions which are supervised by the Ministry of Labor and Social Development. As adults, those categorized as uneducable transfer to an adult institution, where some facilities leave individuals to live in a bed-ridden state.\n\nAccording to the Library of Congress, about 1.6 million children in Russia need access to special education. Despite legal rulings that allow children to attend school and mandate that specialized education be available, most do not receive a public education. Advances, however, have been made to provide rehabilitation services according to disability. Eight schools exist that serve individuals with the following disabilities: severe retardation, various ranges of blindness and deafness, as well as severe motor problems. The Library of Congress reports that \"In 2006, Russia had 1,373 boarding schools for 170,000 children with speech, hearing, and language pathology, vision impairment, mental retardation, skeletal diseases, and tuberculosis; and 1,946 day schools for 236,000 disabled students.\" Primarily, though, children are placed into institutions at an early age. Since 1993, the Ministry of Education made a recommendation regarding the creation of the availability of classes for children with learning disabilities, but this sort of social change is still in progress.\n\nSeveral international bodies have created principles that uphold the rights of children with disabilities. In 2008, World Health Organization’s Better Health, Better Lives Initiative states that its goal is to: \n“[E]nsure that all children and young \npeople with intellectual disabilities are fully \nparticipating members of society, living with \ntheir families, integrated in the community \nand receiving health care and support proportional to their needs.\"\nThe Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has created the following articles outlining the rights of children with disabilities, which also protect against institutionalization. \nConcern related to the violation of the CRPD's articles led to a United Nations General Day of Discussion, which further led to the UN guidelines on the Alternative Care of children in 2009. Paragraph 22 states: \"While recognizing that residential care facilities and family-based care complement each \nother in meeting the needs of children, where large residential care facilities (institutions) \nremain, alternatives should be developed in the context of an overall deinstitutionalization \nstrategy, with precise goals and objectives, which will allow for their progressive elimination.\" \nIn order to adhere to the guidelines and end the practice of institutionalization, the Europe Regional Office branch of the United Nations Human Rights created a set of suggested solutions in their report \"The Rights of Vulnerable Children Under the Age of Three: Ending their placement in institutional care\". \nThese solutions include:\n\nThe United States Library of Congress reports that \"[u]ntil 1979, disabled children were not legally recognized in the Soviet Union because disability was defined as an inability to perform professional functions due to a sickness or trauma.\" As a result, no benefits were given to persons with disabilities. On December 14, 1979, children under the age of sixteen were able to obtain health benefits if they had a certain disease, as outlined by the Ministry of Health Care Regulation No. 1265. The ratification of the 1993 Russian Constitution initiated advancements in human rights for all by outlining guidelines that guarantee all individuals freedoms. While institutionalization is still widespread, when children are to be assessed according to their abilities, the parents are ensured certain guarantees. Parents must be informed of the evaluation and they must agree with the determined institution before the child is relocated. The adequate placement of children into proper institutions may not be accurate, as necessary resources are sometimes unavailable.\n\nIn a 2005 study of 105 \"Postinstitutionalized Children of Intercountry Adoption\" more than half of them adopted in the United States were from China and Russia. The children from Eastern Europe initially \"exhibited 1 month of delayed growth for every 5 months they had spent institutionalized. They also demonstrated delayed fine motor (82%), gross motor (70%), language (59%), and social–emotional (53%) skills. \nIn post-adoption analysis, the study found that 60.4% of adopting parents reported \"no continuing medical or developmental difficulties for their children.\" While this study reported findings collected from 105 children, its authors stated that much more information must be gathered to assess the changes adoption makes in the development and growth of children who have been institutionalized previously.\n"}
{"id": "49427882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49427882", "title": "Jean Maria Arrigo", "text": "Jean Maria Arrigo\n\nJean Maria Arrigo is an American social psychologist and oral historian.\n\nArrigo was a member of a 2005 American Psychological Association (APA) task force evaluating the role of psychologists in U.S. intelligence and military interrogations of detainees. \nShe became known for exposing conflicts of interest of most of the others on the nominally independent task force, who were allied in advance with advocates of harsh interrogation methods.\n\nFor her whistleblowing actions, the APA honored Arrigo in 2015 and the American Association for the Advancement of Science presented their 2015 AAAS Award for Scientific Freedom and Responsibility to her.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8161134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8161134", "title": "Kyoko Hayashi", "text": "Kyoko Hayashi\n\nHayashi was born in Nagasaki and spent the years from 1931-1945 with her family in Shanghai. She returned to Nagasaki in March 1945 and enrolled in Nagasaki Girls' High School, where she was mobilized in the Mitsubishi Munitions Factory. She was working at the factory when the atomic bomb blast destroyed Nagasaki on August 9, 1945. Hayashi was seriously ill for two months, and suffered afterwards from fragile health. She later studied nursing in a special course the Welfare Faculty for Women attached to Nagasaki Medical School, but left before graduation. She started to write in 1962.\n\nIn 1967, her story \"Procession on a Cloudy Day\" (\"Kumoribi no kōshin\") was published in Bungei Shuto. She first drew wide attention in 1975 with an autobiographical story about the bombing, \"Ritual of Death\" (\"Matsuri no ba\"), which received that year's Akutagawa Prize. \"Two Grave Markers\" (\"Futari No Bohyō\"), also based on her experiences in the bombing, was published that same year. Her works in the 1970s also include a collection of twelve short stories titled \"Gyaman bi-doro\" (Cut glass, blown glass), containing \"The Empty Can\" (\"Aki kan\") and \"Yellow Sand\" (\"Kousa\"), both first published in 1978.\n\nIn 1980, Hayashi published her first full-length novel, \"Naki ga gotoki\" (As if nothing had happened), with a semi-autobiographical lead character. The Nagasaki theme continued through the 1980s with her collections \"Sangai no ie\" (Home in the three worlds), which won the Kawabata Prize, and \"Michi\" (The Path). Her work \"Yasurakani ima wa nemuri tamae\" won the 1990 Tanizaki Prize.\n\nHayashi lived near Washington, D.C., from 1985 to 1988.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10309729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10309729", "title": "Lead safe work practices", "text": "Lead safe work practices\n\nMandated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) standard 24 CFR Part 1330 (a) (4), Lead-Safe Work Practices provide those performing remodeling tasks in homes built before 1978 with guidelines on procedures they should be using to prevent creating a lead hazard.\n\nLead poisoning remains a major environmental health concern, and while we most often associate the disease with childhood, high levels of lead exposure are linked to serious adult health conditions, such as high blood pressure and dementia.\n\nWorkers who remodel or renovate older homes where the likelihood of lead paint is high are particularly vulnerable to lead exposure. Their work creates contaminated dust which they then inhale. They can also put their families at risk by bringing contaminated dust home on their work clothes.\n\nThe National Safety Council emphasizes that everyone should be aware of the potential presence of lead paint in homes built prior to 1978, and notes that…”such awareness is particularly important for those engaged in the building trades, as well as do-it-yourselfers, to learn how to perform their work in a lead-safe manner.”\n\nEffective April 22, 2010, under its Renovation, Repair, and Painting (RRP) Rule, the EPA mandates that firms performing renovation, repair, and painting projects that disturb lead-based paint in pre-1978 homes, child care facilities, and schools be certified by the EPA and that they use certified renovators who are trained by EPA-approved training providers to follow lead-safe work practices. Individuals can become certified renovators by taking an approved training course.\n\nAnyone performing RRP projects in pre-1978 homes and child-occupied facilities, must learn how to use lead-safe work practices and follow these three simple procedures:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36039081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36039081", "title": "Marquette University College of Health Sciences", "text": "Marquette University College of Health Sciences\n\nThe Marquette University College of Health Sciences is one of the primary colleges at Marquette University, located in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The college oversees curricula related to the research and medical treatment of the human body.\n\nThe college oversees the curriculum and instruction in all of the health science-related majors offered by the university, with the exception of clinical psychology, dentistry and nursing, each of which fall under separate schools.\n\nThe College of Health Sciences offers Bachelor's, Master's, Ph.D. and clinical Doctorate degrees across various majors. Within the college are seven separate departments: \n\nPhysical Therapy is offered only as a doctoral program, leading to Doctorate of Physical Therapy awards. Similarly, Physician assistant studies lead only to the Master of Physician Assistant Studies degree.\n\nDepartments in the college are accredited by a corresponding accrediting body. For example, the Athletic Training department received full re-accreditation from the Commission on Accreditation of Athletic Training Education through 2020. Other departments have received their respective notifications of accreditation from the Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant, the Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education, the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences, the Council of Academic Accreditation of the American Speech-Language Hearing Association and others.\n\nIn 2012, \"US News and World Report\" ranked Marquette's physical therapy program at 12th among all programs nationwide. In the same set of rankings, the college's physician assistant studies offerings were ranked 43rd while speech pathology and audiology program came in at 62nd.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40076171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40076171", "title": "Masonic Medical Research Laboratory", "text": "Masonic Medical Research Laboratory\n\nMasonic Medical Research Laboratory is a research organization founded by the Grand Lodge of New York. The LABORATORY studies experimental cardiology with an emphasis on cardiac arrhythmias, ischemic heart disease and sudden cardiac death.\n\nThe MMRL was established in 1958, sponsored by the Grand Lodge of New York, for the purpose of general research in cardiology. Over the years, the MMRL was engaged in research into cardiac electrophysiology, blood substitutes, vision, muscular dystrophy, hypertension and geriatrics. The institution has been administered by Directors of Research since its inception, Dr. Murray Steele, Dr. Gordon K. Moe .\n\nMMRL established the Cardiac Research Institute, a scientific and medical research center focused on developing strategies to combat heart disease, including new heart medications and diagnostic procedures for the management of cardiac arrhythmias. Its researchers have studied the mechanisms underlying sudden cardiac death and other arrhythmia syndromes and have evaluated approaches to therapy. The institute also houses a genetic screening center for families afflicted with sudden death syndromes.\n\nIN 2009, the MMRL initiated a stem cell research program.\n\nIn 2013 the institute's staff consisted of about 40 researchers and administrators and its budget was about $4.5 million. It received financial support from the Grand Lodges of New York, Florida, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maryland, Rhode Island, Wisconsin, New Hampshire, and Delaware; and a, derived from individual donations, It also received corporate grants, research grants from the National Institutes of Health, as well as partnerships with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies.\n\n\nIn 1960 researchers at MMRL developed a mathematical model for use in the study of atrial fibrillation. In 1966 they demonstrated dual pathways in the AV node and showed the basis for AV nodal tachycardia.\n\nIn 1973 Institute researchers showed that oscillatory afterpotentials (delayed afterdepolarizations) was the basis for arrhythmias associated with digitalis toxicity. Over the next several years later they explored modulated parasystole and reflection as mechanisms of cardiac arrhythmias.\n\nIn the 1980s research staff worked to clarify the differences between epicardium and endocardium, and found that the presence of an action potential notch in epicardium, but not endocardium, is responsible for inscription of the electrocardiographic J wave. They found differences in the response of epicardium and endocardium to a variety of drugs and neurotransmitters.\n\nThe MMRL developed a blood substitute which was patented in 1990.\n\nIn the 1990s MMRL researchers discovered the M cell, confirming that the heart is made of several different cell types. In 1998 they uncovered the cellular basis for the various waves that appear on an electrocardiogram including the J, T and U waves.\n\nBetween 1996 and 1998 MMRL published the first gene, SCN5A, to be linked to idiopathic ventricular fibrillation (IVF). The MMRL named this the Brugada syndrome in 1996, after Josep and Pedro Brugada, who first described this as a new clinical entity in 1992, and in 1999 proposed use of quinidine and isoproterenol for its treatment.\n\nIn 2000 the MMRL research team uncovered evidence linking Sudden Infant Death Syndrome to a congenital heart defect, the Long QT syndrome (LQTS) published in The New England Journal of Medicine. That year they also found experimental evidence, confirmed by later research, that some forms of early repolarization could result in the development of life-threatening arrhythmias.\n\nDuring the next few years MMRL discovered several genes that when mutated give rise to the Long QT, Short QT, Brugada and Early Repolarization syndromes. They later demonstrated that, ranolazine (Ranexa), a drug approved for ischemic heart disease, was capable of suppressing both atrial and ventricular arrhythmias.\n\nIn 2007 MMRL researchers studied atrial-selective sodium channel block as a strategy to manage atrial fibrillation. They later demonstrated that the combination of ranolazine (Ranexa) and dronedarone (Multaq) could prevent the development of atrial fibrillation, which led to Phase 2 clinical trials.\n\nIn 2010 MMRL described “J Wave Syndromes” a subset of inherited cardiac arrhythmia syndromes characterized by accentuated J waves, including the Brugada and Early Repolarization syndromes. Soon after, the research team identified Wenxin Keli, a herbal Chinese medicine, as an atrial selective sodium channel blocker capable of suppressing atrial fibrillation in experimental models. In 2012 they also identified Wenxin Keli and Milrinone as potential pharmacological therapies for the Brugada syndrome.\n\nThe MMRL offers a Postdoctoral Fellowship Program as well as a Predoctoral Research Training Program which is administered in affiliation with SUNY Upstate Medical University at Syracuse, New York. Its ten-week Summer Fellowship Program, initiated in 1960, provides hands-on experience in research to students in the life sciences. NNRL also operates Mentoring Programs with BOCES, tours and shadowing programs to provide information to high school students about careers in science and research.\n\n"}
{"id": "2947963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2947963", "title": "Medical debt", "text": "Medical debt\n\nMedical debt refers to debt incurred by individuals due to health care costs and related expenses.\n\nMedical debt is different from other forms of debt, because it is usually incurred accidentally or faultlessly. People do not plan to fall ill or hurt themselves, and health care remedies are often unavoidable; medical debt is often treated with more sympathy than other kinds of debt resulting in advice that people ought not try to convert it to credit card debt.\n\nMedical debt is an especially notable phenomenon in the United States. In less developed nations those on low income in need of treatment will often avail themselves of what ever help they can from either the state or NGOs without going into debt, and in most developed countries public coverage of healthcare costs are comprehensive. But in the USA, even when the patient has insurance coverage, including coverage under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, considerable medical costs remain the patient's responsibility. Consequently, medical debt has been found by a 2009 study to be the primary cause of personal bankruptcy.\n\nA 2007 survey had found about 70 million Americans either have difficulty paying for medical treatment or have medical debt.\nStudies have found people are most likely to accumulate large medical debts when they do not have health insurance to cover the costs of necessary medications, treatments, or procedures—in 2009 about 50 million Americans had no health coverage. However, about 60% of those found to have medical debt were insured.\nHealth insurance plans rarely cover any and all health-related expenses; for insured people, the gap between insurance coverage and the affordability of health care manifests as medical debt. As with any type of debt, medical debt can lead to an array of personal and financial problems—including having to go without food and heat plus a reluctance to seek further medical treatment.\nAggressive debt collecting has been highlighted as an aggravating factor.\nA study has found about 63% of adults with medical debt avoided further medical treatment, compared with only 19% of adults who had no such debt.\n\nAccording to a study conducted in 2012 by Demos that among indebted households 62% cited out-of-pocket medical expenses as a contribution to their debt.\n\nMedical debt is considered as a non-priority unsecured debt in Chapter 7 bankruptcy. In other words, medical debts are paid only after assets are applied to the debt of creditors who hold priority debt, and thus medical debts are often discharged in their entirety at the conclusion of the bankruptcy process. If the bankrupt estate has sufficient assets such that a part of the medical debt is repaid through bankruptcy, any remaining outstanding medical debt that is included in the bankruptcy case will be discharged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21053336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21053336", "title": "Ministry of Health and Welfare (Taiwan)", "text": "Ministry of Health and Welfare (Taiwan)\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Welfare (MOHW; ) is the Executive Yuan ministry responsible for the administration of the public health system, social welfare, affordable and universal health care, hospitals, pharmaceutical, immunization programs, disease prevention, supervision and coordination of local health agencies in the Republic of China Taiwan.\n\nThe ministry was originally established on 17 March 1971 as the Department of Health (DOH; ). The department was upgraded to Ministry of Health and Welfare on 23 July 2013 with the addition from the agencies in the Ministry of the Interior responsible for social welfare following restructuring of the Executive Yuan.\n\nThe original building of the MOHW was located at Datong District, Taipei when it was still named the Department of Health and being renamed Ministry of Health and Welfare. The Executive Yuan approved the construction for the new building of the then Department of Health in 2007 at Nangang District, Taipei. After years of planning and construction, the building was finally completed in May 2014. On 18 June 2014, the opening ceremony of the new MOHW building was attended by President Ma Ying-jeou, legislators, and representatives from various government agencies and related organizations.\n\n\n\n\nThe MOHW building is accessible within walking distance East from Kunyang MRT station of Taipei Metro.\n\n"}
{"id": "54019120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54019120", "title": "Mohalla Clinics", "text": "Mohalla Clinics\n\nMohalla Clinics are primary health centres in the state of New Delhi in India, that offer a basic package of essential health services including medicines, diagnostics, and consultation free of cost. Mohalla in Hindi means neighborhood or community. These clinics serve as the first point of contact for the population, offer timely services, and reduce the load of referrals to secondary and tertiary health facilities in the state. Mohalla Clinics was first set up by the Aam Admi Party government in 2015, and as of 2018, 187 such clinics have been set up across the state and served more than 2 million residents. The Government has kept a target of setting up 1000 such clinics in the city before 2020 Delhi Legislative Assembly Elections. According to the World Health Organization data for the year 2015, more than 65% of the population in India paid for health from their own pockets. The Hindu, meanwhile reported in 2017 that only 17% of people in the country have health insurance. In a country with one of the largest out-of-pocket health expenditures and least coverage of health insurance in the world, the free health services offered by Mohalla Clinics helps to reduce the financial burden on low-income households by saving travel costs and lost wages.\n\nIn December 2017, India's renowned cardiac surgeon and founder of Narayana Health, Dr. Devi Prasad Shetty, visited a mohalla clinic in Todapur, Delhi. He was amazed by the healthcare facilities provided to the general public by the Delhi Government. In a letter to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, in the capacity as chair of The Elders, an international non-governmental organisation of independent global leaders founded by Nelson Mandela, and former Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan commended Mohalla Clinic project. The praise for the mohalla clinic project also came from the former Prime Minister of Norway Gro Harlem Brundtland at the Prince Mahidol Award Conference at Bangkok, Thailand after a presentation by Delhi health minister Satyendra Kumar Jain.\n\nThe Straits Times, an English-language daily broadsheet newspaper based in Singapore finds Mohalla Clinics to be high-tech where results of most of the tests are known within two minutes and are uploaded onto an IT cloud for access by patients and their doctors on their smartphones and the clinic's tablets.\n\nMeanwhile, in a report published by The Washington Post, it suggests \"It may well be time for America to build mohalla clinics in its cities\". The report also features Swasthya Slate, a $600 medical device for instant diagnosis developed by Kanav Kahol, a biomedical engineer and researcher at Arizona State University’s department of biomedical informatics.\n"}
{"id": "53880998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53880998", "title": "National Colon Cancer Awareness Month", "text": "National Colon Cancer Awareness Month\n\nNational Colon Cancer Awareness Month is an annual celebration observed in the United States during the month of March, to increase awareness of colorectal cancer. In the United States it is organized by the Colorectal Cancer Alliance.\"\n\nNational Colon Cancer Awareness Month (or National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month) in the United States was first established via Presidential Proclamation, signed by William Jefferson Clinton on February 29, 2000.\n\nA National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month proclamation was issued by President Barack Obama for three years between 2014-2016.\n\nThe manner of celebration for national colon cancer awareness month varies, but many organizations host special events to help engage their local communities in raising awareness, such as with the Dress in Blue Day promoted by the Colorectal Cancer Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "13350625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13350625", "title": "PDHPE", "text": "PDHPE\n\nPDHPE (\"Personal Development, Health and Physical Education\") is a subject in the New South Wales school curriculum. It is a compulsory subject in the K-10 curriculum, and available as an elective in years 11 and 12 and for the HSC in year 12. It incorporates a wide range of material, including some physical education; sports science; nutrition; disease; mental health; drugs and drug abuse; relationships, and power and abuse in relationships; risk; family; road safety; sexuality, STDs, and contraception; first aid and CPR; discrimination, harassment, vilification and anti-discrimination legislation. \n\n"}
{"id": "12823966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12823966", "title": "Pediatric advanced life support", "text": "Pediatric advanced life support\n\nPediatric Advanced Life Support (PALS) is a 2-day (with an additional self study day) American Heart Association training program co-branded with the American Academy of Pediatrics. The goal of the course is to aid the pediatric healthcare provider in developing the knowledge and skills necessary to efficiently and effectively manage critically ill infants and children, resulting in improved outcomes. Professional healthcare providers use PALS during the stabilization and transportation phases of a pediatric emergency, in or out of hospital.\n\nSkills taught include recognition and treatment of infants and children at risk for cardiopulmonary arrest; the systematic approach to pediatric assessment; effective respiratory management; defibrillation and synchronized cardioversion; intraosseous access and fluid bolus administration; and effective resuscitation team dynamics.\n\nPETA has criticized the use of animals in PALS training which the organization calls “cruel and unnecessary ”. PETA says that hundreds of PALS training centers have begun using simulators in response to concerns regarding the animals’ welfare. The American Heart Association neither endorses nor requires the use of animals in intubation training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41717500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41717500", "title": "Physician Quality Reporting System", "text": "Physician Quality Reporting System\n\nThe Physician Quality Reporting System (PQRS), formerly known as the Physician Quality Reporting Initiative (PQRI), is a health care quality improvement incentive program initiated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) in the United States in 2006. It is an example of a \"pay for performance\" program which rewards providers financially for reporting healthcare quality data to CMS.\n\nPQRS developed from several pieces of Congressional legislation. In 2006 the Tax Relief and Health Care Act (TRHCA) included a provision for a 1.5% incentive payment to eligible providers who successfully submitted quality data to CMS. This provision included a cap on payments. The 2007 Medicare, Medicaid, and SCHIP Extension Act extended the program through 2008 and 2009. It also removed the TRHCA payment cap. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act made PQRS permanent in 2008 and increased the incentive payment to 2%. Initially only an incentive program, in 2010 the Affordable Care Act (ACA) introduced penalties for providers who do not submit qualifying PQRS data. Penalties increase annually according to a schedule and begin two years after the reporting period. Calendar year 2014 was the last year for a PQRS incentive. There is no incentive payment for 2015 PQRS reporting. Beyond 2015, there is potential to obtain an incentive under the Physician Value Based Payment Modifier (VM) program.\n\nIn 2015 CMS identified 254 quality measures for which providers may choose to submit data. The measures map to U.S. National Quality Standard (NQS) health care quality domains:\n\nThe requirements for eligibility become more complex over time. For example, in 2013 providers had to submit data on one out of the total possible measures to comply with PQRS; in 2015, they have to submit data on nine of the measures.\n\nBecause PQRS is a Medicare-based incentive program, only providers who care for patients with Medicare insurance must participate in PQRS. As of 2015, CMS included the following health care practitioners under eligible providers:\n\n\nEligible providers may elect to participate in PQRS as an individual provider or as a group practice.\n\nCMS allows providers to submit PQRS data through several electronic methods, including claims-based reporting, registry-based reporting from a qualified registry, direct submission from an electronic health record or other IT system vendor, and Group Practice Reporting Option (GPRO) web interface.\n\nCMS reported that out of 1.25 million eligible providers, 460,000 (almost 40%) did not submit PQRS data in 2013, the most recent year for which data is available (as of 2015). Those providers will lose 1.5% in total reimbursements for CMS patients over the next year, while the 642,000 providers who met PQRS criteria will receive a 0.5% increase in CMS reimbursements. CMS also reported that overall participation grew from 15% in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "63860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63860", "title": "Picture archiving and communication system", "text": "Picture archiving and communication system\n\nA picture archiving and communication system (PACS) is a medical imaging technology which provides economical storage and convenient access to images from multiple modalities (source machine types). Electronic images and reports are transmitted digitally via PACS; this eliminates the need to manually file, retrieve, or transport film jackets, the folders used to store and protect X-ray film. The universal format for PACS image storage and transfer is DICOM (Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine). Non-image data, such as scanned documents, may be incorporated using consumer industry standard formats like PDF (Portable Document Format), once encapsulated in DICOM. A PACS consists of four major components: The imaging modalities such as X-ray plain film (PF), computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), a secured network for the transmission of patient information, workstations for interpreting and reviewing images, and archives for the storage and retrieval of images and reports. Combined with available and emerging web technology, PACS has the ability to deliver timely and efficient access to images, interpretations, and related data. PACS reduces the physical and time barriers associated with traditional film-based image retrieval, distribution, and display.\n\nMost PACSs handle images from various medical imaging instruments, including ultrasound (US), magnetic resonance (MR), Nuclear Medicine imaging, positron emission tomography (PET), computed tomography (CT), endoscopy (ES), mammograms (MG), digital radiography (DR), phosphor plate radiography, Histopathology, ophthalmology, etc. Additional types of image formats are always being added. Clinical areas beyond radiology; cardiology, oncology, gastroenterology, and even the laboratory are creating medical images that can be incorporated into PACS. (see DICOM Application areas).\n\nPACS has four main uses:\n\nPACS is offered by virtually all the major medical imaging equipment manufacturers, medical IT companies and many independent software companies. Basic PACS software can be found free on the Internet.\n\nThe architecture is the physical implementation of required functionality, or what one sees from the outside. There are different views, depending on the user. A radiologist typically sees a viewing station, a technologist a QA workstation, while a PACS administrator might spend most of their time in the climate-controlled computer room. The composite view is rather different for the various vendors.\n\nTypically a PACS consists of a multitude of devices. The first step in typical PACS systems is the modality. Modalities are typically computed tomography (CT), ultrasound, nuclear medicine, positron emission tomography (PET), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Depending on the facility's workflow most modalities send to a quality assurance (QA) workstation or sometimes called a PACS gateway. The QA workstation is a checkpoint to make sure patient demographics are correct as well as other important attributes of a study. If the study information is correct the images are passed to the archive for storage. The central storage device (archive) stores images and in some cases reports, measurements and other information that resides with the images. The next step in the PACS workflow is the reading workstations. The reading workstation is where the radiologist reviews the patient's study and formulates their diagnosis. Normally tied to the reading workstation is a reporting package that assists the radiologist with dictating the final report. Reporting software is optional and there are various ways in which doctors prefer to dictate their report. Ancillary to the workflow mentioned, there is normally CD/DVD authoring software used to burn patient studies for distribution to patients or referring physicians. The diagram above shows a typical workflow in most imaging centers and hospitals. Note that this section does not cover integration to a Radiology Information System, Hospital Information System and other such front-end system that relates to the PACS workflow.\n\nMore and more PACS include web-based interfaces to utilize the internet or a Wide Area Network as their means of communication, usually via VPN (Virtual Private Network) or SSL (Secure Sockets Layer). The clients side software may use ActiveX, JavaScript and/or a Java Applet. More robust PACS clients are full applications which can utilize the full resources of the computer they are executing on and are unaffected by the frequent unattended Web Browser and Java updates. As the need for distribution of images and reports becomes more widespread there is a push for PACS systems to support DICOM part 18 of the DICOM standard. Web Access to DICOM Objects (WADO) creates the necessary standard to expose images and reports over the web through truly portable medium. Without stepping outside the focus of the PACS architecture, WADO becomes the solution to cross platform capability and can increase the distribution of images and reports to referring physicians and patients.\n\nPACS image backup is a critical, but sometimes overlooked, part of the PACS Architecture (see below). HIPAA requires that backup copies of patient images be made in case of image loss from the PACS. There are several methods of backing up the images, but they typically involve automatically sending copies of the images to a separate computer for storage, preferably off-site.\n\nThe communication with the PACS server is done through DICOM messages that are similar to DICOM image \"headers\", but with different attributes. A query (C-FIND) is performed as follows:\n\n\nImages (and other composite instances like Presentation States and Structured Reports) are then retrieved from a PACS server through either a C-MOVE or C-GET request, using the DICOM network protocol. Retrieval can be performed at the Study, Series or Image (instance) level. The C-MOVE request specifies where the retrieved instances should be sent (using separate C-STORE messages on one or more separate connections) with an identifier known as the destination Application Entity Title (AE Title). For a C-MOVE to work, the server must be configured with mapping of the AE Title to a TCP/IP address and port, and as a consequence the server must know in advance all the AE Titles that it will ever be requested to send images to. A C-GET, on the other hand, performs the C-STORE operations on the same connection as the request, and hence does not require that the \"server\" know the \"client\" TCP/IP address and port, and hence also works more easily through firewalls and with network address translation, environments in which the incoming TCP C-STORE connections required for C-MOVE may not get through. The difference between C-MOVE and C-GET is somewhat analogous to the difference between active and passive FTP. C-MOVE is most commonly used within enterprises and facilities, whereas C-GET is more practical between enterprises.\n\nIn addition to the traditional DICOM network services, particularly for cross-enterprise use, DICOM (and IHE) define other retrieval mechanisms, including WADO, WADO-WS and most recently WADO-RS.\n\nDigital medical images are typically stored locally on a PACS for retrieval. It is important (and required in the United States by the Security Rule's Administrative Safeguards section of HIPAA) that facilities have a means of recovering images in the event of an error or disaster.\nWhile each facility is different, the goal in image back-up is to make it automatic and as easy to administer as possible. The hope is that the copies won't be needed; however, disaster recovery and business continuity planning dictates that plans should include maintaining copies of data even when an entire site is temporarily or permanently lost. \n\nIdeally, copies of images should maintained in several locations, including off-site to provide disaster recovery capabilities. In general, PACS data is no different than other business critical data and should be protected with multiple copies at multiple locations. As PACS data can be considered protected health information (PHI), regulations may apply, most notably HIPAA and HIPAA Hi-Tech requirements. \n\nImages may be stored both locally and remotely on off-line media such as disk, tape or optical media. The use of storage systems, using modern data protection technologies has become increasingly common, particularly for larger organizations with greater capacity and performance requirements. Storage systems may be configured and attached to the PACS server in various ways, either as Direct-Attached Storage (DAS), Network-attached storage (NAS), or via a Storage Area Network (SAN). However the storage is attached, enterprise storage systems commonly utilize RAID and other technologies to provide high availability and fault tolerance to protect against failures. In the event that it is necessary to reconstruct a PACS partially or completely, some means of rapidly transferring data back to the PACS is required, preferably while the PACS continues to operate.\n\nModern data storage replication technologies may be applied to PACS information, including the creation of local copies via point-in-time copy for locally protected copies, along with complete copies of data on separate repositories including disk and tape based systems. Remote copies of data should be created, either by physically moving tapes off-site, or copying data to remote storage systems. Whenever HIPAA protected data is moved, it should be encrypted, which includes sending via physical tape or replication technologies over wide area networks (WAN) to a secondary location. \n\nOther options for creating copies of PACS data include removable media (hard drives, DVDs or other media that can hold many patients' images) that is physically transferred off-site. HIPAA HITECH mandates encryption of stored data in many instances or other security mechanisms to avoid penalties for failure to comply.\n\nThe back-up infrastructure may also be capable of supporting the migration of images to a new PACS. Due to the high volume of images that need to be archived many rad centers are migrating their systems to a Cloud-based PACS.\n\nA full PACS should provide a single point of access for images and their associated data. That is, it should support all digital modalities, in all departments, throughout the enterprise.\n\nHowever, until PACS penetration is complete, individual islands of digital imaging not yet connected to a central PACS may exist. These may take the form of a localized, modality-specific network of modalities, workstations and storage (a so-called \"mini-PACS\"), or may consist of a small cluster of modalities directly connected to reading workstations without long term storage or management. Such systems are also often not connected to the departmental information system. Historically, Ultrasound, Nuclear Medicine and Cardiology Cath Labs are often departments that adopt such an approach.\n\nMore recently, Full Field digital mammography (FFDM) has taken a similar approach, largely because of the large image size, highly specialized reading workflow and display requirements, and intervention by regulators. The rapid deployment of FFDM in the US following the DMIST study has led to the integration of Digital Mammography and PACS becoming more commonplace.\n\nAll PACS, whether they span the entire enterprise or are localized within a department, should also interface with existing hospital information systems: Hospital information system (HIS) and Radiology Information System (RIS).\nThere are several data flowing into PACS as inputs for next procedures and back to HIS as results corresponding inputs:\n\nIn: Patient Identification and Orders for examination. These data are sent from HIS to RIS via integration interface, in most of hospital, via HL7 protocol. Patient ID and Orders will be sent to Modality (CT,MR,etc) via DICOM protocol (Worklist). Images will be created after images scanning and then forwarded to PACS Server. Diagnosis Report is created based on the images retrieved for presenting from PACS Server by physician/radiologist and then saved to RIS System.<br>\nOut: Diagnosis Report and Images created accordingly. Diagnosis Report is sent back to HIS via HL7 usually and Images are sent back to HIS via DICOM usually if there is a DICOM Viewer integrated with HIS in hospitals (In most of cases, Clinical Physician gets reminder of Diagnosis Report coming and then queries images from PACS Server).\n\nInterfacing between multiple systems provides a more consistent and more reliable dataset:\n\nAn interface can also improve workflow patterns:\n\n\nRecognition of the importance of integration has led a number of suppliers to develop fully integrated RIS/PACS. These may offer a number of advanced features:\n\n\nThe PACS installation process is complicated requiring time, resources, planning, and testing. Installation is not complete until the acceptance test is passed. Acceptance testing of a new installation is a vital step to assure user compliance, functionality, and especially clinical safety. Take for example the Therac-25, a radiation medical device involved in accidents in which patients were given massive overdoses of radiation, due to unverified software control.\n\nThe acceptance test determines whether the PACS is ready for clinical use and marks the warranty timeline while serving as a payment milestone. The test process varies in time requirements depending on facility size but contract condition of 30-day time limit is not unusual. It requires detailed planning and development of testing criteria prior to writing the contract. It is a joint process requiring defined test protocols and benchmarks.\n\nTesting uncovers deficiencies. A study determined that the most frequently cited deficiencies were the most costly components. Failures ranked from most-to-least common are: Workstation; HIS/RIS/ACS broker interfaces; RIS; Computer Monitors; Web-based image distribution system; Modality interfaces; Archive devices; Maintenance; Training; Network; DICOM; Teleradiology; Security; Film digitizer.\n\nOne of the first basic PACS was created in 1972 by Dr Richard J. Steckel.\n\nThe principles of PACS were first discussed at meetings of radiologists in 1982. Various people are credited with the coinage of the term \"PACS\". Cardiovascular radiologist Dr Andre Duerinckx reported in 1983 that he had first used the term in 1981. Dr Samuel Dwyer, though, credits Dr Judith M. Prewitt for introducing the term.\n\nDr Harold Glass, a medical physicist working in London in the early 1990s secured UK Government funding and managed the project over many years which transformed Hammersmith Hospital in London as the first filmless hospital in the United Kingdom. Dr Glass died a few months after the project came live but is credited with being one of the pioneers of PACS.\n\nThe first large-scale PACS installation was in 1982 at the University of Kansas, Kansas City. This first installation became more of a teaching experience of what not to do rather than what to do in a PACS installation.\n\nIn the US PACS are classified as Medical Devices, and hence if for sale are regulated by the USFDA. In general they are subject to Class 2 controls and hence require a 510(k), though individual PACS components may be subject to less stringent general controls. Some specific applications, such as the use for primary mammography interpretation, are additionally regulated within the scope of the Mammography Quality Standards Act.\n\nThe Society for Imaging Informatics in Medicine (SIIM) is the worldwide professional and trade organization that provides an annual meeting and a peer-reviewed journal to promote research and education about PACS and related digital topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "3257631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3257631", "title": "Point-biserial correlation coefficient", "text": "Point-biserial correlation coefficient\n\nThe point biserial correlation coefficient (\"r\") is a correlation coefficient used when one variable (e.g. \"Y\") is dichotomous; \"Y\" can either be \"naturally\" dichotomous, like whether a coin lands heads or tails, or an artificially dichotomized variable. In most situations it is not advisable to dichotomize variables artificially. When a new variable is artificially dichotomized the new dichotomous variable may be conceptualized as having an underlying continuity. If this is the case, a biserial correlation would be the more appropriate calculation.\n\nThe point-biserial correlation is mathematically equivalent to the Pearson (product moment) correlation, that is, if we have one continuously measured variable \"X\" and a dichotomous variable \"Y\", \"r\" = \"r\". This can be shown by assigning two distinct numerical values to the dichotomous variable.\n\nTo calculate \"r\", assume that the dichotomous variable \"Y\" has the two values 0 and 1. If we divide the data set into two groups, group 1 which received the value \"1\" on \"Y\" and group 2 which received the value \"0\" on \"Y\", then the point-biserial correlation coefficient is calculated as follows:\nwhere \"s\" is the standard deviation used when data are available for every member of the population:\n<br>\n\"M\" being the mean value on the continuous variable \"X\" for all data points in group 1, and \"M\" the mean value on the continuous variable \"X\" for all data points in group 2. Further, \"n\" is the number of data points in group 1, \"n\" is the number of data points in group 2 and \"n\" is the total sample size. This formula is a computational formula that has been derived from the formula for \"r\" in order to reduce steps in the calculation; it is easier to compute than \"r\".\n\nThere is an equivalent formula that uses \"s\":\n\nwhere \"s\" is the standard deviation used when data are available only for a sample of the population:\n\nThe version of the formula using \"s\" is useful if one is calculating point-biserial correlation coefficients in a programming language or other development environment where there is a function available for calculating \"s\", but no function available for calculating \"s\".\n\nGlass and Hopkins' book \"Statistical Methods in Education and Psychology\", (3rd Edition) contains a correct version of point biserial formula.\n\nAlso the square of the point biserial correlation coefficient can be written:\n\nWe can test the null hypothesis that the correlation is zero in the population. A little algebra shows that the usual formula for assessing the significance of a correlation coefficient, when applied to \"r\", is the same as the formula for an unpaired \"t\"-test and so\n\nfollows Student's t-distribution with (\"n\"+\"n\" - 2) degrees of freedom when the null hypothesis is true.\n\nOne disadvantage of the point biserial coefficient is that the further the distribution of \"Y\" is from 50/50, the more constrained will be the range of values which the coefficient can take. If \"X\" can be assumed to be normally distributed, a better descriptive index is given by the biserial coefficient\n\nwhere \"u\" is the ordinate of the normal distribution with zero mean and unit variance at the point which divides the distribution into proportions \"n\"/\"n\" and \"n\"/\"n\". This is not easy to calculate, and the biserial coefficient is not widely used in practice.\n\nA specific case of biserial correlation occurs where \"X\" is the sum of a number of dichotomous variables of which \"Y\" is one. An example of this is where \"X\" is a person's total score on a test composed of \"n\" dichotomously scored items. A statistic of interest (which is a discrimination index) is the correlation between responses to a given item and the corresponding total test scores. There are three computations in wide use, all called the \"point-biserial correlation\": (i) the Pearson correlation between item scores and total test scores including the item scores, (ii) the Pearson correlation between item scores and total test scores excluding the item scores, and (iii) a correlation adjusted for the bias caused by the inclusion of item scores in the test scores. Correlation (iii) is\n\nA slightly different version of the point biserial coefficient is the rank biserial which occurs where the variable \"X\" consists of ranks while \"Y\" is dichotomous. We could calculate the coefficient in the same way as where \"X\" is continuous but it would have the same disadvantage that the range of values it can take on becomes more constrained as the distribution of \"Y\" becomes more unequal. To get round this, we note that the coefficient will have its largest value where the smallest ranks are all opposite the 0s and the largest ranks are opposite the 1s. Its smallest value occurs where the reverse is the case. These values are respectively plus and minus (\"n\" + \"n\")/2. We can therefore use the reciprocal of this value to rescale the difference between the observed mean ranks on to the interval from plus one to minus one. The result is\n\nwhere \"M\" and \"M\" are respectively the means of the ranks corresponding to the 1 and 0 scores of the dichotomous variable. This formula, which simplifies the calculation from the counting of agreements and inversions, is due to Gene V Glass (1966).\n\nIt is possible to use this to test the null hypothesis of zero correlation in the population from which the sample was drawn. If \"r\" is calculated as above then the smaller of\n\nand\n\nis distributed as Mann–Whitney U with sample sizes \"n\" and \"n\" when the null hypothesis is true.\n\n"}
{"id": "16081079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16081079", "title": "Population study", "text": "Population study\n\nIn the various fields of healthcare, a population study is a study of a group of individuals taken from the general population who share a common characteristic, such as age, sex, or health condition. This group may be studied for different reasons, such as their response to a drug or risk of getting a disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "29624918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29624918", "title": "Reproductive Health Matters", "text": "Reproductive Health Matters\n\nReproductive Health Matters (RHM) is an organisation promoting sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR) globally through its Journal and 'More than a Journal' activities. \n\nIt was established in 1993 by Marge Berer. The editor-in-chief is Julia Hussein and Acting Chief Executive is Eszter Kismodi. \n\nThe RHM peer-reviewed journal publishes research, in-depth analysis and critical reviews across the spectrum of SRHR, generating knowledge and evidence and inspiring new thinking and action. In addition, RHM supports advocacy and informs global, regional and local policy discussions to ensure investment in overlooked SRHR issues, research, rights-based and evidence-based policies and programmes.\n\nRHM has a presence in London, Geneva and Cape Town, and works with regional partners in Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Peru, and Russia to promote the dissemination of our publications in seven languages.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n\nThe journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.421.\n\n"}
{"id": "150742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150742", "title": "Richmond Park", "text": "Richmond Park\n\nRichmond Park, in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames, was created by Charles I in the 17th century as a deer park. The largest of London's Royal Parks, it is of national and international importance for wildlife conservation. The park is a national nature reserve, a Site of Special Scientific Interest and a Special Area of Conservation and is included, at Grade I, on Historic England's Register of Historic Parks and Gardens of special historic interest in England. Its landscapes have inspired many famous artists and it has been a location for several films and TV series.\n\nRichmond Park includes many buildings of architectural or historic interest. The Grade I-listed White Lodge was formerly a royal residence and is now home to the Royal Ballet School. The park's boundary walls and ten other buildings are listed at Grade II, including Pembroke Lodge, the home of 19th-century British Prime Minister Lord John Russell and his grandson, the philosopher Bertrand Russell.\n\nHistorically the preserve of the monarch, the park is now open for all to use and includes a golf course and other facilities for sport and recreation. It played an important role in both world wars and in the 1948 and 2012 Olympics.\n\nRichmond Park is the largest of London's Royal Parks. It is the second-largest park in London (after the 10,000 acre Lee Valley Park, whose area extends beyond the M25 into Hertfordshire and Essex) and is Britain's second-largest urban walled park after Sutton Park, Birmingham. Measuring 3.69 square miles (955 hectares or 2,360 acres), it is comparable in size to Paris's Bois de Vincennes (995 ha or 2,458 ac) and Bois de Boulogne (846 ha or 2,090 ac). It is almost half the size of Casa de Campo (Madrid) (1750 ha or 4324.34 ac) and around three times the size of Central Park in New York (341 ha or 843 ac).\n\nOf national and international importance for wildlife conservation, most of Richmond Park (856 hectares) is a Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), a National Nature Reserve (NNR) and Special Area of Conservation (SAC). The largest Site of Special Scientific Interest in London, it was designated as an SSSI in 1992, excluding the area of the golf course, Pembroke Lodge Gardens and the Gate Gardens. In its citation, Natural England said: \"Richmond Park has been managed as a royal deer park since the seventeenth century, producing a range of habitats of value to wildlife. In particular, Richmond Park is of importance for its diverse deadwood beetle fauna associated with the ancient trees found throughout the parkland. In addition the park supports the most extensive area of dry acid grassland in Greater London.\"\n\nThe park was designated as an SAC in April 2005 on account of its having \"a large number of ancient trees with decaying timber. It is at the heart of the south London centre of distribution for stag beetle \"Lucanus cervus\", and is a site of national importance for the conservation of the fauna of invertebrates associated with the decaying timber of ancient trees\".\n\nSince October 1987 the park has also been included, at Grade I, on the Register of Historic Parks and Gardens of special historic interest in England, being described in Historic England's listing as \"A royal deer park with pre C15 origins, imparked by Charles I and improved by subsequent monarchs. A public open space since the mid C19\".\n\nRichmond Park is located in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. It is close to Richmond, Ham, Petersham, Kingston upon Thames, Wimbledon, Roehampton and East Sheen.\n\nThe Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport manages Richmond Park and the other Royal Parks of London under powers set out in the Crown Lands Act 1851, which transferred management of the parks from the monarch to the government. Day-to-day management of the Royal Parks has been delegated to The Royal Parks, an executive agency of the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport (DCMS). The Royal Parks' Board sets the strategic direction for the agency. Appointments to the Board are made by the Mayor of London.\n\nThe Friends of Richmond Park and the Friends of Bushy Park co-chair the Richmond and Bushy Parks Forum, comprising 38 local groups of local stakeholder organisations. The forum was formed in September 2010 to consider proposals to bring Richmond Park and Bushy Park – and London's other royal parks – under the control of the Mayor of London through a new Royal Parks Board and to make a joint response. Although welcoming the principles of the new governance arrangements, the forum (in 2011) and the Friends of Richmond Park (in 2012) have expressed concerns about the composition of the new board.\n\nRichmond Park is the most visited royal park outside central London, with 4.4 million visits in 2014. The park is enclosed by a high wall with several gates. The gates either allow pedestrian and bicycle access only, or allow bicycle, pedestrian and other vehicle access. The gates for motor vehicle access are open only during daylight hours, and the speed limit is 20 mph. The gates for pedestrians and cyclists are open 24 hours a day apart from during the deer cull in February and November when the park is closed in the evenings. Apart from taxis, no commercial vehicles are allowed unless they are being used to transact business with residents of the park.\n\nFrom March to October, a free bus service runs on Wednesdays, stopping at the main car parks and the gate at Isabella Plantation nearest Peg's Pond.\nThe gates open to motor traffic are: Sheen Gate, Richmond Gate, Ham Gate, Kingston Gate, Roehampton Gate and (for access to Richmond Park Golf Course only) Chohole Gate. There is pedestrian and bicycle access to the park 24 hours a day except during the deer cull in February and November when the pedestrian gates are closed between 8:00 pm and 7:30 am.\n\nThe Beverley Brook Walk runs through the park between Roehampton Gate and Robin Hood Gate. The Capital Ring walking route passes through the park from Robin Hood Gate to Petersham Gate. The Thames Cycle Route runs across the park from Ham Gate to Roehampton Gate (also known as Sustrans NCN Route 4 – the speed limit on this route through the centre of the park, where it is off the main road, is 10 mph). London Cycle Network route no. 3 goes through the park.\n\nThe park has designated bridleways and cycle paths. These are shown on maps and noticeboards displayed near the main entrances, along with other regulations that govern use of the park. The bridleways are special in that they are for horses (and their riders) only and not open to cyclists like normal bridleways. Cycling is allowed only on main roads, the Thames Cycle Route through the centre of the park (10 mph), and on the Tamsin Trail (the shared-use pedestrian–cycle path that runs close to the park's perimeter).\n\nAs the park is a national nature reserve and a Site of Special Scientific Interest, all dog owners are required to keep their dogs under control while in the park. This includes not allowing their dog to disturb other park users or disrupt wildlife. In 2009, after some incidents leading to the death of wildfowl, the park's dogs-on-leads policy was extended. Park users are said to believe that the deer are feeling increasingly threatened by the growing number of dogs using the park and Royal Parks advises against walking dogs in the park during the deer's birthing season.\n\nA mugging at gunpoint in 1854 reputedly led to the establishment of a park police force. Until 2005 the park was policed by the separate Royal Parks Constabulary but that has now been subsumed into the Royal Parks Operational Command Unit of the Metropolitan Police. The mounted police have been replaced by a patrol team in a four-wheel drive vehicle. In 2015 the Friends of Richmond Park expressed concern about plans to cut the numbers of police in the park to half the level that they were ten years previously, despite an increase in visitor numbers and in incidents of crime.\n\nIn July 2012 it was reported that police have been given the power to issue £50 on-the-spot fines for littering, cycling outside designated areas and for dog fouling offences. In August 2012 a dog owner was ordered to pay £315 after allowing five dogs to chase ducks in the park. Since 2013 commercial dog-walkers have been required to apply for licences to walk dogs in the park and are allowed to walk only four dogs at a time. In September 2013 a cyclist was successfully prosecuted for speeding at 37 mph in the park. In March 2015 a cycling club member was fined for speeding at 41 mph and faced disciplinary action from his cycling club, which uses the park for training. In 2014 and 2015 two men were prosecuted for picking mushrooms in the park.\n\n\"Cycling\": Cycles are available for hire near Roehampton Gate and, at peak times, near Pembroke Lodge. The Tamsin Trail (shared between pedestrians and cyclists) provides a circuit of the park and is almost entirely car-free.\n\n\"Fishing\" is allowed, by paid permit, on Pen Ponds from mid-June to mid-March.\n\n\"Golf\" is played at Richmond Park Golf Course, accessed from Chohole Gate.\n\n\"Horse riding\": Horses from several local stables are ridden in the park.\n\n\"Rugby\": A section of the grassland to the north of the Roehampton Gate is maintained and laid out during the winter months for rugby; there are three pitches. At weekends, this area is hired extensively to Rosslyn Park Rugby Football Club. The club buses visiting teams to and from the park pitches from its nearby clubhouse and changing rooms.\n\n\"Running\": The Tamsin Trail is a trail around the park which is popular with runners. Members of Barnes Runners complete at least one circumnavigation of it on the first and third Sunday of every month. The Richmond Park Parkrun, a 5 km organised run, takes place every Saturday at 9:00 am from a starting point close to Bishop's Gate.\n\nThere are \"children's playgrounds\" at Kingston Gate and Petersham Gate.\n\nThe Friends of Richmond Park (FRP) was founded in 1961 to protect the park. In 1960 the speed limit in the park had been raised from 20 to 30 miles an hour and there were concerns that the roads in the park would be assigned to the main highway system as had recently happened in parts of Hyde Park. In 1969, plans by the then Greater London Council to assign the park's roads to the national highway were revealed by the Friends and subsequently withdrawn. The speed limit was reduced to 20 miles an hour in the summer of 2004.\n\nIn 2011, the Friends successfully campaigned for the withdrawal of plans for open air screenings of films in the park. In 2012, the Friends contributed towards the cost of a new Jubilee Pond, and launched a public appeal for a Ponds and Streams Conservation Programme in which the Friends, the Richmond Park Wildlife Group and Healthy Planet have been working with staff from The Royal Parks to restore some of the streams and ponds in the park.\n\nThe Friends run a visitor centre near Pembroke Lodge, organise a programme of walks and education activities for young people, and produce a quarterly newsletter. The Friends have published two books, \"A Guide to Richmond Park\" and \"Family Trails in Richmond Park\"; profits from the books' sales contribute towards the Friends' conservation work.\n\nThe Friends of Richmond Park has been a charitable organisation since 2009. It has 2500 members, is run by approximately 150 volunteers and has no staff. Broadcaster and naturalist Sir David Attenborough, former Richmond Park MP Baroness Susan Kramer and children's author Dame Jacqueline Wilson are patrons of FRP. The chair (in 2018) is Ron Crompton, who also chairs the Royal Parks Friends Forum. The Friends Forum enables the chairs of all the Royal Parks Friends groups to meet regularly to discuss common issues and to make their views known to the chief executive of the Royal Parks, the Royal Parks Advisory Group and the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.\n\nIn 1625 Charles I brought his court to Richmond Palace to escape an outbreak of plague in London and turned the area on the hill above Richmond into a park for the hunting of red and fallow deer. It was originally referred to as the king's \"New Park\" to distinguish it from the existing park in Richmond, which is now known as Old Deer Park. In 1637 he appointed Jerome Weston, 2nd Earl of Portland as keeper of the new park for life, with a fee of 12 (old) pence a day, pasture for four horses, and the use of the brushwood – later holders of that office were known as \"Ranger\". Charles's decision, also in 1637, to enclose the land was not popular with the local residents, but he did allow pedestrians the right of way. To this day the walls remain, although they have been partially rebuilt and reinforced. Following Charles I's execution, custodianship of the park passed to the Corporation of the City of London. It was returned to the restored monarch, Charles II, on his return to London in 1660.\n\nIn 1719, Caroline of Ansbach and her husband, the future George II of Great Britain, bought Richmond Lodge as a country residence. This building had first been built as a hunting lodge for James I in 1619 and had also been occupied by William III. As shown in a map of 1734, Richmond Park and Richmond Gardens then formed a single unit – the latter was merged with Kew Gardens by George III in the early 1800s. In 1736 the Queen's Ride was cut through existing woodland to create a grand avenue through the park and Bog Gate or Queen's Gate was opened as a private entrance for Caroline to enter the park on her journeys between White Lodge and Richmond Lodge. The same map shows Pen Ponds, a lake divided in two by a causeway, dug in 1746 and initially referred to as the Canals, which is now a good place to see water birds. Richmond Lodge fell out of use on Caroline's death in 1737 but was brought back into use by her grandson George III as his summer residence from 1764 to 1772, when he switched his summer residence to Kew Palace and had Richmond Lodge demolished.\nIn 1751, Caroline's daughter Princess Amelia became ranger of Richmond Park after the death of Robert Walpole. Immediately afterwards, the Princess caused major public uproar by closing the park to the public, only allowing a few close friends and those with special permits to enter. This continued until 1758, when a local brewer, John Lewis, took the gatekeeper, who stopped him from entering the park, to court. The court ruled in favour of Lewis, citing the fact that, when Charles I enclosed the park in the 17th century, he allowed the public right of way in the park. Princess Amelia was forced to lift the restrictions.\n\nFull right of public access to the park was confirmed by Act of Parliament in 1872. However, people were no longer given the right to remove firewood; this is still the case and helps in preserving the park.\nBetween 1833 and 1842 the Petersham Lodge estate, and then part of Sudbrook Park, were incorporated into Richmond Park. Terrace Walk was created from Richmond Gate to Pembroke Lodge. The Russell School was built near Petersham Gate in 1851. Between 1855 and 1861, new drainage improvements were constructed, including drinking points for deer. In 1867 and 1876 fallow deer from the park were sent to New Zealand to help build up stocks – the first fallow deer introduced to that country In or around 1870, the Inns of Court Rifle Volunteers were using an area near Bog Gate as a drill ground. Giuseppe Garibaldi, Italian general and politician, visited Lord John Russell at Pembroke Lodge in 1864, as did the Shah of Persia, Naser al-Din Shah Qajar in 1873. He was the first modern Iranian monarch to visit Europe.\n\nEdward VII developed the park as a public amenity by opening up almost all the previously fenced woods and making public those gates that were previously private. From 1915 level areas of the park were marked out for football and cricket pitches. A golf course was developed on the former \"Great Paddock\" of Richmond Park, an area used for feeding deer for the royal hunt. The tree belt in this part of the park was supplemented by additional planting in 1936. The golf course was opened in 1923 by Edward, Prince of Wales (who was to become King Edward VIII and, after his abdication, Duke of Windsor). The future king had been born in the park, at White Lodge, in 1894.\n\nThe park played an important role during World War I and was used for cavalry training. On 7 December 1915 English inventor Harry Grindell Matthews demonstrated, in a secret test on Pen Ponds, how selenium cells would work in a remotely controlled prototype weapon for use against German Zeppelins. Reporting on this story several years later, in April 1924, \"The Daily Chronicle\" reported that the test had been carried out in the presence of Lord Balfour, Lord Fisher and a staff of experts. Its success led to Matthews receiving a payment of £25,000 from the Government the very next morning. Despite this large sum changing hands, the Admiralty never used the invention. Between 1916 and 1925 the park housed a South African military war hospital, which was built between Bishop's Pond and Conduit Wood. The hospital closed in 1921 and was demolished in 1925. Richmond Cemetery, just outside the park, contains a section of war graves commemorating 39 soldiers who died at the hospital; the section is marked by a Cross of Sacrifice and a grade II listed cenotaph designed by Sir Edwin Lutyens.\n\nFaisal I of Iraq and Lebanese politician Salim Ali Salam were photographed visiting the park in 1925. In 1938, an army camp was set up near Dann's Pond. During World War II Pembroke Lodge was used as the base for \"Phantom\" (the GHQ Liaison Regiment). The Pen Ponds were drained, in order to disguise them as a landmark, and an experimental bomb disposal centre was set up at Killcat Corner, which is between Robin Hood Gate and Roehampton Gate. \"Picture Post\", on 13 December 1941, featured a photograph of an anti-aircraft gun site inside Sheen Gate. The Russell School was destroyed by enemy action in 1943 and Sheen Cottage a year later. For the 1948 Summer Olympics, an Olympic village was built near Dann's Pond. In 1953 President Tito of Yugoslavia stayed at White Lodge during a state visit to Britain.\n\nThe Petersham Hole was a sink hole caused by subsidence of a sewer which forced the total closure of the A307 road in Petersham in 1979–80. As the hole and subsequent repair work had forced a total closure of this main road between Richmond and Kingston, traffic was diverted through the park and the Richmond, Ham, and Kingston gates remained open throughout the day and night. The park road was widened at Ham Cross near Ham Gate to accommodate temporary traffic lights. About 10 deer a month were killed by traffic while the diversion was in operation. In the 2012 Summer Olympics the men's and the women's cycling road races went through the park.\n\nThe brick wall enclosing Richmond Park is eight miles (13km) long and up to 9ft (2.7m) high. Much of the wall is designated by Historic England as a Grade II listed building.\n\nWhen the park was enclosed in 1637 there were six gates in the boundary wall: Coombe Gate, Ham Gate, Richmond Gate, Robin Hood Gate, Roehampton Gate and Sheen Gate. Of these, Richmond Gate has the heaviest traffic. The present gates were designed by Sir John Soane and were widened in 1896. Sheen Gate was where the brewer John Lewis asserted pedestrian right of entry in 1755 after Princess Amelia had denied it. The present double gates date from 1926. Coombe Gate (later known as Ladderstile Gate) provided access to the park for the parishioners of Coombe, with both a gate and a step ladder. The gate was locked in the early 1700s and bricked up in about 1735. The stepladder was reinstated after John Lewis's case in 1758 and remained in place until about 1884. The present gate dates from 1901. The present wrought iron gates of Roehampton Gate were installed in 1899. Ham Gate was widened in 1921, when the present wrought iron gates were installed. The chinoiserie lantern lights over the gate were installed in 1825.\n\nRobin Hood Gate takes its name from the nearby Robin Hood Inn (demolished in 2001) and is close to what is called the Robin Hood roundabout on the A3. Widened in 1907, it has been closed to motorised vehicles since a 2003 traffic reduction trial. Alterations commenced in March 2013 to make the gates more suitable for pedestrian use and return some of the hard surface to parkland.\n\nChohole Gate served the farm that stood within the park on the site of the present Kings Farm Plantation. It is first mentioned in 1680. The gate now provides access to Richmond Park Golf Course. Kingston Gate dates from about 1750. The existing gates date from 1898.\n\nPublic access via Bog Gate or Queen's Gate (built in 1736), 24 hours a day, was granted in 1894 and the present \"cradle\" gate installed. The gate connects the park with East Sheen Common.\n\nPetersham Gate served the Russell School, replacing the more ornate gates to Petersham Lodge. A disused carriage gate further up the hill was probably a tradesman's entrance to the school or to the Lodge stables. Bishop's Gate in Chisholm Road, previously known as the Cattle Gate, was for use by livestock allowed to pasture in the nineteenth century. It was opened for public use in 1896. Kitchen Garden Gate, hidden behind Teck Plantation, is probably a nineteenth-century gate. It has never been open to the public. Cambrian Gate or Cambrian Road Gate was constructed during World War I for access to the newly built South Africa Military Hospital. When the hospital was demolished in 1925, the entrance was made permanent and public as a pedestrian gate.\n\nThe park includes a Grade I listed building, White Lodge. The boundary wall of the park is Grade II listed as are ten other buildings: Ham Gate Lodge, built in 1742; Holly Lodge (formerly known as Bog Lodge) and the game larder in its courtyard, built in 1735; Pembroke Lodge; Richmond Gate and Richmond Gate Lodge, dated 1798 and designed by Sir John Soane; Thatched House Lodge; and White Ash Lodge and its barns and stables, built in the 1730s or 1740s.\n\nThe Freebord or \"deer leap\" is a strip of land 5 metres (16'6\") wide, running around most of the perimeter of the park. Owned by the Crown, it allows access to the outside of the boundary wall for inspection and repairs. Householders whose property backs on to the park can use this land by paying an annual fee.\n\nIn 1735, a new lodge, Cooper's Lodge, was built on the site of Hill Farm. It was later known as Lucas's Lodge and as Bog Lodge. Bog Lodge was renamed Holly Lodge in 1993 and now contains a visitors' centre (bookings only), the park's administrative headquarters and a base for the Metropolitan Police's Royal Parks Operational Command Unit.\n\nHolly Lodge also includes the Holly Lodge Centre, an organisation which provides an opportunity for people of all ages and abilities to enjoy and learn from a series of hands-on experiences, focusing particularly on the environment and in the Victorian history and heritage of Richmond Park. The Centre, which is wheelchair-accessible throughout, was opened in 1994. It was founded by Mike Fitt , who was then The Royal Parks' Superintendent of Richmond Park and later became Deputy Chief Executive of London's Royal Parks. A registered charity, the Holly Lodge Centre received the Queen's Award for Voluntary Service in 2005.\n\nPrincess Alexandra has been Holly Lodge Centre's Royal Patron since 2007. In 2011 she opened the Centre's Victorian-themed pharmacy, \"Mr Palmer's Chymist\". This includes the original interior, artefacts and dispensing records dating from 1865, from a chemist's shop in Mortlake, and is used for educational activities. The Centre also includes a replica Victorian schoolroom, and a kitchen garden planted with varieties of vegetables used in Victorian times and herbs cultivated for their medicinal properties.\n\nPembroke Lodge and some associated houses stand in their own garden within the park. In 1847 Pembroke Lodge became the home of the then Prime Minister, Lord John Russell and was later the childhood home of his grandson, Bertrand Russell. It is now a popular restaurant with views across the Thames Valley.\n\nThatched House Lodge was the London home of U.S. General Dwight D. Eisenhower during the Second World War. Since 1963 it has been the residence of Princess Alexandra, The Honourable Lady Ogilvy. The residence was originally built as two houses in 1673 for two Richmond Park Keepers, as Aldridge Lodge. Enlarged in 1727, the two houses were joined and renamed Thatched House Lodge in 1771 by Sir John Soane. The gardens include an 18th-century two-room thatched summer house which gave the main house its name.\n\nBuilt as a hunting lodge for George II by the architect Roger Morris, White Lodge was completed in 1730. Its many famous residents have included members of the Royal Family. The future Edward VIII was born at White Lodge in 1894 and his brother Prince Albert, Duke of York (the future George VI), and the Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother), lived there in the 1920s. The Royal Ballet School (formerly Sadler's Wells Ballet) has been based since 1955 at White Lodge where younger ballet students continue to be trained.\n\nBishops Gate Lodge [sic] takes its name from a gamekeeper who was on the staff in the first half of the 19th century. A reference dated 1854 said that the keeper had had access to the lodge for the past fifty years. The lodge does not appear, though, on the 1813 plan of the park, but appears on the plans of 1850, and its layout seems to have changed little from that time. It forms part of a view over the park, and beyond, that is much favoured by amateur painters.\n\nOak Lodge, near Sidmouth Wood, was built in about 1852 as a home for the park bailiff, who was responsible for repair and maintenance in the park. It is used by The Royal Parks as its base for a similar function today.\n\nThere are also gate lodges at Chohole Gate, Kingston Gate, Robin Hood Gate, Roehampton Gate and at Sheen Gate, which also has a bungalow (Sheen Gate Bungalow). Ladderstile Cottage, at Ladderstile Gate, was built in the 1780s.\n\nA map by John Eyre, \"Plan of His Majesty's New Park\", shows a summerhouse near Richmond Gate.\n\nSeveral buildings already existed within the park when it was created. One of these was a manor house at Petersham which was renamed Petersham Lodge. During the Commonwealth period it became accommodation for one of the park's deputy keepers, Lodowick Carlell (or Carlile), who was also a renowned playwright in his day, and his wife, Joan Carlile, one of the very first women to practise painting professionally.\n\nElizabeth, Countess of Dysart, and her husband Sir Lionel Tollemache, took over Petersham Lodge when they became joint keepers of Richmond Park. After Tollemache's death the Lodge and its surrounding land were leased in 1686 to Lawrence Hyde, Earl of Rochester, whose sister Anne was married to the new king, James II. It became a private park and was subsequently landscaped. By 1692 Rochester had demolished the Lodge and replaced it with a splendid new mansion in his \"New Park\". In 1732, a new Petersham Lodge was built to replace it after a fire. This Petersham Lodge was demolished in 1835.\n\nProfessor Sir Richard Owen, the first Director of the Natural History Museum, lived at Sheen Cottage until his death in 1892. The cottage was destroyed by enemy action in 1944. The remains of the cottage can be seen in patches and irregularities in the wall 220 metres from Sheen Gate.\n\nA bandstand, similar to one in Kensington Gardens, was erected near Richmond Gate in 1931. In 1975, after many years of disuse, it was moved to Regent's Park.\n\nThere is a protected view of St Paul's Cathedral from King Henry's Mound, and also from Sawyer's Hill a view of central London in which the London Eye, Tower 42 (formerly the NatWest Tower) and 30 St Mary Axe (\"The Gherkin\") appear to be close to one another.\n\nKing Henry's Mound, which may have been a Neolithic burial barrow, is the highest point within the park and is located within the public gardens of Pembroke Lodge. At various times the mound's name has been connected with Henry VIII or with his father Henry VII. But there is no evidence to support the legend that Henry VIII stood on the mound to watch for a sign from St Paul's that Anne Boleyn had been executed at the Tower and that he was then free to marry Jane Seymour.\n\nTo the west of King Henry's Mound is a panorama of the Thames Valley. St Paul's Cathedral, over 10 miles (16 km) to the east, can be seen through the naked eye or via a telescope that has been installed on the Mound. This vista, created soon after the cathedral was completed in 1710, is protected by a \"dome and a half\" width of sky on either side. In 2005 the then Mayor of London, Ken Livingstone, sought to overturn this protection and reduce it to \"half a dome\". In 2009 his successor, Boris Johnson, promised to reinstate the wider view, though also approving a development at Victoria Station which, when completed, will obscure its right-hand corner. New gates − \"The Way\" − which can be viewed through the King Henry's Mound telescope, were installed in 2012 on the edge of Sidmouth Wood to mark the 300th anniversary of St Paul's Cathedral.\n\nIn December 2016, it was reported that Manhattan Loft Gardens, a 42-storey 135m-tall apartment building under construction in Stratford, an area of London not covered by these planning restrictions, had \"destroyed\" the view from the park as it can now be seen behind the framed view of the cathedral's dome. The developers said that “Despite going through the correct planning processes in a public and transparent manner, at no point was the subject of visual impact to St Paul’s ever raised\" by the Olympic Delivery Authority or the Greater London Authority and that they were looking into the issues raised by the development.\n\nIn November 2017, the Friends of Richmond Park reported that their campaigning on the issue had resulted in the Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, instructing London planners to consult the Greater London Authority on planning requests for high-rise buildings which, if built, could affect the visibility of St Paul’s from established viewpoints. His instruction has now been incorporated into planning procedures across Greater London.\n\nThe park's open slopes and woods are based on lowland acid soils. The grassland is mostly managed by grazing. The park contains numerous woods and copses, some created with donations from members of the public.\n\nBetween 1819 and 1835, Lord Sidmouth, Deputy Ranger, established several new plantations and enclosures, including Sidmouth Wood and the ornamental Isabella Plantation, both of which are fenced to keep the deer out. After World War II the existing woodland at Isabella Plantation was transformed into a woodland garden, and is organically run, resulting in a rich flora and fauna. Opened to the public in 1953, it is now a major visitor attraction in its own right. It is best known for the flowering, in April and May, of its evergreen azaleas and camellias, which have been planted next to its ponds and streams. There are also many rare and unusual trees and shrubs.\n\nThe Jubilee Plantation, created to commemorate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Victoria, was established in 1887. Prince Charles' Spinney was planted out in 1951 with trees protected from the deer by fences, to preserve a natural habitat. The bluebell glade is managed to encourage native British bluebells. Teck Plantation, established in 1905, commemorates the Duke and Duchess of Teck, who lived at White Lodge. Their daughter Mary married George V. Tercentenary Plantation, in 1937, marked the 300th anniversary of the enclosure of the park. Victory Plantation was established in 1946 to mark the end of the Second World War. Queen Mother's Copse, a small triangular enclosure on the woodland hill halfway between Robin Hood Gate and Ham Gate, was established in 1980 to commemorate the 80th birthday of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.\n\nThe park lost over 1000 mature trees during the Great Storm of 1987 and the Burns' Day storm of 1990. The subsequent replanting included a new plantation, Two Storms Wood, a short distance into the park from Sheen Gate. Some extremely old trees can also be seen inside this enclosure.\n\nBone Copse, which was named in 2005, was started by the Bone family in 1988 by purchasing and planting a tree from the park authorities in memory of Bessie Bone who died in that year. Trees have been added annually, and in 1994 her husband Frederick Bone also died. The annual planting has been continued by their children.\n\nA bench known as \"Poet's seat\" is located at the north end of Pembroke Lodge Gardens, in a spot called Poet's Corner. Sculpted by Richard Farrington, it was based on an idea by Jane Fowles. The seat is inscribed with lines by the poet James Thomson, who was living in Richmond at the time of his death.\n\nA wooden memorial plaque with an ode to Thomson by the writer and historian John Heneage Jesse was formerly located near Pembroke Lodge stables, where it was installed in 1851. The plaque was replaced by the Selborne Society in 1895.\n\nIn 2014 Poet's Corner was re-sited to the other side of the main path and the ode, on a re-gilded board, was installed in a completely new oak frame. The new Poet's Corner, funded by the Friends of Richmond Park and the Visitor Centre at Pembroke Lodge, and by a donation in memory of Wendy Vachell, also includes three curved benches made from reclaimed teak. The benches are inscribed with a couplet by the Welsh poet W. H. Davies, \"A poor life this, if, full of care, we have no time to stand and stare\".\n\nKing Henry's Mound is inscribed with a few lines from Thomson's poem \"The Seasons\".\n\nPoet's Corner is linked to King Henry's Mound by The John Beer Laburnum Arch, named after one of Pembroke Lodge Gardens' former charge-hands. The arch has a display of yellow laburnum flowers in May.\n\nIn 2002 a \"musical bench\", designed by Mil Stricevic, was placed in a favoured viewing spot of rock singer and lyricist Ian Dury (1942–2000) near Poet's Corner. On the back of the bench are the words \"Reasons to be cheerful\", the title of one of Dury's songs. The solar powered seat was intended to allow visitors to plug in and listen to eight of his songs as well as an interview, but was subjected to repeated vandalism. In 2015 the bench was refurbished and the MP3 players and solar panels were replaced with metal plates on which a QR code can be scanned via a smartphone. Visitors can access nine Ian Dury and the Blockheads songs and hear Dury's \"Desert Island Discs\" interview with Sue Lawley, first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 15 December 1996.\n\nOriginally created for deer hunting, Richmond Park now has 630 red and fallow deer that roam freely within much of the park. A cull takes place each November and February to ensure numbers can be sustained; about 200 deer are culled annually and the meat is sold to licensed game dealers. Some deer are also killed in road accidents, through ingesting litter such as small items of plastic, or by dogs; three deer were killed by dogs in 2012. Many of the deer in Richmond Park are infected with a bacterium called \"Borrelia burgdorferi\" which can be transmitted to humans through a tick bite causing Lyme disease.\n\nThe park is an important refuge for other wildlife, including woodpeckers, squirrels, rabbits, snakes, frogs, toads, stag beetles and many other insects plus numerous ancient trees and varieties of fungi. It is particularly notable for its rare beetles.\n\nRichmond Park supports a large population of what are believed to be ring-necked (or rose-ringed) parakeets. These bred from birds that escaped or were freed from captivity.\n\nThere are about 30 ponds in the park. Some – including Barn Wood Pond, Bishop's Pond, Gallows Pond, Leg of Mutton Pond, Martin's Pond and White Ash Pond – have been created to drain the land or to provide water for livestock. The Pen Ponds (which in the past were used to rear carp for food) date from 1746. They were formed when a trench was dug in the early 17th century to drain a boggy area; later in that century this was widened and deepened by the extraction of gravel for local building. The Ponds now take in water from streams flowing from the higher ground around them and release it to Beverley Brook. Beverley Brook and the two Pen Ponds are most visible areas of water in the park.\n\nBeverley Brook rises at Cuddington Recreation Park in Worcester Park and enters the park (where it is followed by the Tamsin Trail and Beverley Walk) at Robin Hood Gate, creating a water feature used by deer, smaller animals and water grasses and some water lilies. Its name is derived from the former presence in the river of the European beaver (\"Castor fiber\"), a species extinct in Britain since the sixteenth century.\n\nMost of the streams in the park drain into Beverley Brook but a spring above Dann's Pond flows to join Sudbrook (from \"South brook\") on the park boundary. Sudbrook flows through a small valley known as Ham Dip and has been dammed and enlarged in two places to form Ham Dip Pond and Ham Gate Pond, first mapped in 1861 and 1754 respectively. These were created for the watering of deer. Both ponds underwent restoration work including de-silting, which was completed in 2013. Sudbrook drains the western escarpment of the hill that, to the east, forms part of the catchment of Beverley Brook and, to the south, the Hogsmill River. Sudbrook is joined by the Latchmere Stream just beyond Ham Gate Pond. Sudbrook then flows into Sudbrook Park, Petersham. Another stream rises north of Sidmouth Wood and goes through Conduit Wood towards the park boundary near Bog Gate.\n\nA separate water system for Isabella Plantation was developed in the 1950s. Water from the upper Pen Pond is pumped to Still Pond, Thomson's Pond and Peg's Pond.\n\nThe park's newest pond is Attenborough Pond, opened by and named after the broadcaster and naturalist Sir David Attenborough in July 2014. It was created as part of the park's Ponds and Streams Conservation Programme.\n\nThe Hearsum Collection is a registered charity that collects and preserves the heritage of Richmond Park. It has a collection, which was started in 1997, of heritage material covering the last four centuries, with over 5000 items including antique prints, paintings, maps, postcards, photographs, documents, books and press cuttings. Volunteers from the Friends of Richmond Park have been cataloguing them. The Collection, which as of 2018 continues to be stored in unsatisfactory accommodation in Pembroke Lodge, is overseen by volunteers and part-time staff. The trustees announced in 2014 plans for a new purpose-built heritage centre to provide full public access to the Collection. In April 2017 the Collection, in collaboration with The Royal Parks and Ireland's Office of Public Works, mounted an exhibition at Dublin's Phoenix Park entitled \"Parks, Our Shared Heritage: The Phoenix Park, Dublin & The Royal Parks, London\", demonstrating the historical links between Richmond Park (and other Royal Parks in London) and Phoenix Park. This exhibition was also displayed at the Mall Galleries in London in July and August 2017.\n\nChapter 22 of George MacDonald's novel \"The Marquis of Lossie\" (published in London in 1877 by Hurst and Blackett) is entitled \"Richmond Park\".\n\nIn Georgette Heyer's Regency romance \"Sylvester, or the Wicked Uncle\" (1957) there is an expedition to Richmond Park.\n\nIsabella Plantation in Richmond Park is the scene of a picnic and a child's disappearance in chapters 9 and 10 of Chris Cleave's 2008 novel \"The Other Hand\". Richmond Park features in Jacqueline Wilson's novel \"Lily Alone\" (2010) and in the poetry anthology she edited, \"Green Glass Beads\" (2011).\n\nAnthony Horowitz's 2014 novel \"Moriarty\", about Arthur Conan Doyle's character in his Sherlock Holmes stories, includes a scene set in Richmond Park.\n\n\"A Hind in Richmond Park\" by William Henry Hudson, published in 1922 and republished in 2006, is an extended natural history essay. It includes an account of his visits to Richmond Park and a particular occasion when a young girl was struck by a red deer when she tried to feed it an acorn.\n\nThe oil painting \"The Carlile Family with Sir Justinian Isham in Richmond Park\" is held at Lamport Hall in Northamptonshire. It was painted by Joan Carlile (1600–1679) who lived at Petersham Lodge.\n\nA portrait by T Stewart (a pupil of Sir Joshua Reynolds) in 1758 of \"John Lewis, Brewer of Richmond, Surrey\", whose legal action forced Princess Amelia to reinstate pedestrian access to the park, is in the Richmond upon Thames Borough Art Collection. It is on display in Richmond Reference Library.\n\nJoseph Allen's \"Sir Robert Walpole (1676–1745), 1st Earl of Orford, KG, as Ranger of Richmond Park (after Jonathan Richardson the Elder)\" is in the collection of the National Trust, and is held at Erddig, Wrexham. The painting is based on a portrait with a similar title, by Jonathan Richardson the Elder and John Wootton, which is held at Norwich Castle Museum and Art Gallery.\nArtist and caricaturist Thomas Rowlandson (1756–1827)'s drawing \"Richmond Park\" is at the Yale Center for British Art.\n\n\"The Earl of Dysart's Family in Richmond Park\" by William Frederick Witherington (1785–1865) is in The Hearsum Collection at Pembroke Lodge.\n\n\"Landscape: View in Richmond Park\" was painted in 1850 by the English Romantic painter John Martin. It is held at the Fitzwilliam Museum in Cambridge.\n\nWilliam Bennett's watercolour \"In Richmond Park\", painted in 1852, is held by Tate Britain. It can be viewed, by appointment, at its Prints and Drawings Rooms.\n\nThe oil painting \"In Richmond Park\" (1856) by the Victorian painter Henry Moore is in the collection of the York Museums Trust.\n\n\"Landscape with Deer, Richmond Park\" (1875) by Alfred Dawson is in the Reading Museum's collection.\n\nJohn Buxton Knight's \"White Lodge, Richmond Park\", painted in 1898, is in the collection of Leeds Museums and Galleries.\n\nThe oil painting \"Richmond Park\" (1913) by Arthur George Bell is in the collection of the London Transport Museum.\n\nSpencer Gore's painting \"Richmond Park\", thought to have been painted in the autumn of 1913 or shortly before the artist's death in March 1914, was exhibited at the Paterson and Carfax Gallery in 1920. In 1939 it was exhibited in Warsaw, Helsingfors and Stockholm by the British Council as \"Group of Trees\". It is now in the collection of the Tate Gallery under its original title but is not currently on display. The painting is one of a series of landscapes painted in Richmond Park during the last months of Gore's life. According to Tate curator Helena Bonett, Gore's early death from pneumonia, two months before what would have been his 36th birthday, was brought on by his painting outdoors in Richmond Park in the cold and wet winter months. It is not certain where in the park the picture was made but a row of trees close to the pond near Cambrian Gate has a very close resemblance to those in the painting. Another Gore painting, with the same title (\"Richmond Park\"), painted in 1914, is at the Ashmolean Museum. His painting \"Wood in Richmond Park\" is in the Birmingham Art Gallery's collection.\n\nThe oil painting \"Autumn, Richmond Park\" by Alfred James Munnings is at the Sir Alfred Munnings Art Museum in Colchester.\n\nChinese artist Chiang Yee wrote and illustrated several books while living in Britain. \"Deer in Richmond Park\" is Plate V in his book \"The Silent Traveller in London\", published in 1938.\n\n\"Trees, Richmond Park, Surrey\", painted in 1938 by Francis Ferdinand Maurice Cook, is in the Manchester City Galleries' collection.\n\n\"Richmond Park No 2\" by the English Impressionist painter Laura Knight is at the Royal Academy of Arts.\n\n\"In Richmond Park\" (1962) by James Andrew Wykeham Simons is at the UCL Art Museum.\n\nKenneth Armitage (1916–2002) made a series of sculptures and drawings of oak trees in Richmond Park between 1975 and 1986. His collage and etching \"Richmond Park: Tall Figure with Jerky Arms\" (1981) is in the British Government Art Collection and is on display at the British Embassy in Prague. The Government Art Collection also holds his \"Richmond Park: Two Trees with White Trunks\" (1975), \"Richmond Park: Five Trees, Grey Sky\" (1979) and his sculpture \"Richmond Oak\" (1985–86).\n\n\"Richmond Park Morning, London\" (2004) by Bob Rankin is at Queen Mary's Hospital, Roehampton, which also holds a panel of five oil paintings by Yvonne Fletcher entitled \"Richmond Park, London\" (2005–06).\n\nThe Underground Electric Railways Company published, in 1911, a poster, \"Richmond Park\", designed by Charles Sharland. This is at the London Transport Museum, which also has: a District line poster from 1908, \"Richmond Park for pleasure and fresh air\", by an unknown artist; \"Richmond Park\", by an unknown artist (1910); \"Richmond by Underground\", by Alfred France (1910); \"Richmond Park\", by Arthur G Bell (1913); \"Richmond Park; humours no. 10\" by German American puppeteer and illustrator Tony Sarg (1913); \"Richmond Park by tram\", by Charles Sharland (1913); \"Richmond Park\", by Harold L Oakley (1914); \"Natural history of London; no. 3, herons at Richmond Park\", by Edwin Noble (1916); \"Richmond Park\" by Emilio Camilio Leopoldo Tafani (1920); \"Rambles in Richmond Park\", by Freda Lingstrom (1924); \"Richmond Park\" by Charles Paine (1925); and \"Richmond Park\", a poster commissioned by London Transport in 1938 and illustrated by the artist Dame Laura Knight.\n\nRichmond Park has been a location for several films and TV series:\n\n\nAs well as a location for films, Richmond Park is regularly featured in television programmes, corporate videos and fashion shoots. It has made an appearance on \"Blue Peter\", \"Inside Out\" (the BBC regional current affairs programme) and \"Springwatch\" (the BBC natural history series). In 2014 it was featured in a video commissioned by The Hearsum Collection. Most recently it was the subject of nature documentary \"Richmond Park – National Nature Reserve\", presented by Sir David Attenborough and produced by the Friends of Richmond Park, which has won the best \"Longform\" film in the 2018 national Charity Film Awards.\n\nThe \"Richmond Park\" in Germany is named after the park in Britain and was created in 1768 in Brunswick for Princess Augusta, sister of George III. She was married to the Duke of Brunswick and was feeling homesick, so an English-style park was designed by Lancelot \"Capability\" Brown and a palace built for her, both with the name \"Richmond\".\n\nIn 1935, the palace including the entire estate was purchased by the City of Braunschweig. One condition for the purchase was that no structural changes ever be made and the park not be built on. The palace, which was rebuilt after the Second World War and reconstructed in 1987 to the historic original design, is now used for public events. The nearly four-hectare park has been open to the public since 1964.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10234518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10234518", "title": "Sanger Brown", "text": "Sanger Brown\n\nSanger Brown (1852–1928) was an American physician. He was born in Bloomfield (Ontario), Canada, graduated in 1880 at the Bellevue Hospital Medical College (New York City), was assistant physician at the Bloomingdale Asylum for the Insane (White Plains, N. Y.) in 1882–1885, and acting medical superintendent there in 1886. In 1890 he was appointed professor of neurology in the Post-Graduate Medical School of Chicago, and in 1901–1906 was associate professor of medicine and clinical medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons in the same city. In his experiments with E. A. Schäfer at University College, London, in 1886–1887, he was the first to demonstrate conclusively that in monkeys the centre of vision is located in the occipital lobe. In 1908 he joined the United States Army Medical Reserve Corps with rank of first lieutenant.\n\nKnown for Sanger-Brown cerebellar ataxia. He described it in 1892, it is one of the unusual types collected by Pierre Marie in 1893. It is accompanied by numerous ophthalmic abnormalities and pathologic changes in several tracts of the spinal cord.\n"}
{"id": "42217790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42217790", "title": "Saudi Commission for Health Specialties", "text": "Saudi Commission for Health Specialties\n\nThe Saudi Commission for Health Specialties (SCHS; ) is a Saudi Arabian professional body that regulates health care-related practices and accreditation at all levels in Saudi Arabia. The SCHS was established on 2 June 1992 by Royal Order M/2 to set standards for health practice. Its headquarters is in Riyadh and it has several branch offices across the Kingdom.\n\nSCHS has supported and approved more than 35 training programs.\n\nIn many higher medical centers in Saudi Arabia, the Saudi Commission for Health Specialties is regarded as a \"dys-regulatory\" organisation that in many aspects severely hampers the provision of dedicated health care to the Saudi population by implementing a notoriously abusive financial system for healthcare providers and yet, poor quality standards and nepotism.\n\nSaudi Council of Engineers\n\n"}
{"id": "53396625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53396625", "title": "Sautéed mushrooms", "text": "Sautéed mushrooms\n\nSautéed mushrooms (French: \"Champignons sautés au beurre\") is a flavorful dish prepared by sautéing edible mushrooms. It is served as a side dish, used as an ingredient in dishes such as coq au vin and beef bourguignon, in foods such as duxelles, as a topping for steaks and toast, and also as a garnish.\n\nSautéed mushrooms is a common dish prepared by the sautéing of sliced or whole edible mushrooms. Butter is typically used when sautéing the dish, and margarine and cooking oils such as olive oil and canola oil are also used. Clarified butter can be used, as can a mixture of oil and butter. The dish is typically cooked for over a high heat until the mushrooms are browned, with the oil or butter being very hot in a pan before the mushrooms are added. Overcooking may create an inferior dish by the causing the mushrooms to lose moisture and becoming shriveled.\n\nDuring the cooking process, the dish can be deglazed with the use of wine, and wine can be used as an ingredient in and of itself without deglazing. The dish can be flavored with lemon juice, various herbs and seasonings, salt and pepper. Additional ingredients such as minced green onions and shallots can also be used. The dish is vegetarian, and may have a meat-like texture.\n\nSautéed mushrooms is sometimes served as a side dish, and is also used as an ingredient in the preparation of dishes and foods such as beef bourguignon, coq au vin, \"poulet en cocotte\", \"Poulet Saute Chasseur\", soups and stews, sauces, and duxelles, a paste prepared by sautéing mushrooms, onions, shallots, and herbs in butter. Sautéed mushrooms is also used as a topping for cooked steaks and toast, as a side dish meant to specifically accompany steaks, and as a garnish. The dish can serve to add significant flavor to various dishes, in part per the glutamic acid present in the cells of edible mushrooms (see also: glutamate flavoring).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7970283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7970283", "title": "Sequential probability ratio test", "text": "Sequential probability ratio test\n\nThe sequential probability ratio test (SPRT) is a specific sequential hypothesis test, developed by Abraham Wald and later proven to be optimal by Wald and Jacob Wolfowitz. Neyman and Pearson's 1933 result inspired Wald to reformulate it as a sequential analysis problem. The Neyman-Pearson lemma, by contrast, offers a rule of thumb for when all the data is collected (and its likelihood ratio known).\n\nWhile originally developed for use in quality control studies in the realm of manufacturing, SPRT has been formulated for use in the computerized testing of human examinees as a termination criterion.\n\nAs in classical hypothesis testing, SPRT starts with a pair of hypotheses, say formula_1 and formula_2 for the null hypothesis and alternative hypothesis respectively. They must be specified as follows:\n\nThe next step is to calculate the cumulative sum of the log-likelihood ratio, formula_5, as new data arrive: with formula_6, then, for formula_7=1,2...,\n\nThe stopping rule is a simple thresholding scheme:\n\n\nwhere formula_14 and formula_15 (formula_16 and formula_17. They may be chosen as follows:\n\nformula_18 and formula_19\n\nIn other words, formula_20 and formula_17 must be decided beforehand in order to set the thresholds appropriately. The numerical value will depend on the application. The reason for using approximation signs is that, in the discrete case, the signal may cross the threshold between samples. Thus, depending on the penalty of making an error and the sampling frequency, one might set the thresholds more aggressively. Of course, the exact bounds may be used in the continuous case.\n\nA textbook example is parameter estimation of a probability distribution function. Let us consider the exponential distribution:\n\nThe hypotheses are\n\nThen the log-likelihood function (LLF) for one sample is\n\nThe cumulative sum of the LLFs for all is\n\nAccordingly, the stopping rule is:\n\nThe thresholds are simply two parallel lines with slope formula_27. Sampling should stop when the sum of the samples makes an excursion outside the \"continue-sampling region\".\n\nThe test is done on the proportion metric, and tests that a variable \"p\" is equal to one of two desired points, \"p\" or \"p\". The region between these two points is known as the \"indifference region\" (IR). For example, suppose you are performing a quality control study on a factory lot of widgets. Management would like the lot to have 3% or less defective widgets, but 1% or less is the ideal lot that would pass with flying colors. In this example, \"p = 0.01\" and \"p = 0.03\" and the region between them is the IR because management considers these lots to be marginal and is OK with them being classified either way. Widgets would be sampled one at a time from the lot (sequential analysis) until the test determines, within an acceptable error level, that the lot is ideal or should be rejected.\n\nThe SPRT is currently the predominant method of classifying examinees in a variable-length computerized classification test (CCT). The two parameters are \"p\" and \"p\" are specified by determining a cutscore (threshold) for examinees on the proportion correct metric, and selecting a point above and below that cutscore. For instance, suppose the cutscore is set at 70% for a test. We could select \"p = 0.65\" and \"p = 0.75\" . The test then evaluates the likelihood that an examinee's true score on that metric is equal to one of those two points. If the examinee is determined to be at 75%, they pass, and they fail if they are determined to be at 65%.\n\nThese points are not specified completely arbitrarily. A cutscore should always be set with a legally defensible method, such as a modified Angoff procedure. Again, the indifference region represents the region of scores that the test designer is OK with going either way (pass or fail). The upper parameter \"p\" is conceptually the highest level that the test designer is willing to accept for a Fail (because everyone below it has a good chance of failing), and the lower parameter \"p\" is the lowest level that the test designer is willing to accept for a pass (because everyone above it has a decent chance of passing). While this definition may seem to be a relatively small burden, consider the high-stakes case of a licensing test for medical doctors: at just what point should we consider somebody to be at one of these two levels?\n\nWhile the SPRT was first applied to testing in the days of classical test theory, as is applied in the previous paragraph, Reckase (1983) suggested that item response theory be used to determine the \"p\" and \"p\" parameters. The cutscore and indifference region are defined on the latent ability (theta) metric, and translated onto the proportion metric for computation. Research on CCT since then has applied this methodology for several reasons:\n\n\nSpiegelhalter et al. have shown that SPRT can be used to monitor the performance of doctors, surgeons and other medical practitioners in such a way as to give early warning of potentially anomalous results. In their 2003 paper, they showed how it could have helped identify Harold Shipman as a murderer well before he was actually identified.\n\nMore recently, in 2011, an extension of the SPRT method called Maximized Sequential Probability Ratio Test (MaxSPRT) was introduced. The salient feature of MaxSPRT is the allowance of a composite, one-sided alternative hypothesis, and the introduction of an upper stopping boundary. The method has been used in several medical research studies \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23890494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23890494", "title": "Sex after pregnancy", "text": "Sex after pregnancy\n\nSex after pregnancy is often delayed for several weeks or months, and may be difficult and painful for women. Injury to the perineum or surgical cuts (episiotomy) to the vagina during childbirth can cause sexual dysfunction. Sexual activity other than sexual intercourse is possible sooner, but some women experience a prolonged loss of sexual desire after giving birth, which may be associated with postnatal depression. Common issues that may last more than a year after birth are greater desire by the man than the woman, and a worsening of the woman's body image.\n\nWomen with damage or tears to their perineum resume sex later than women with an intact perineum, and women who needed perineal sutures report poorer sexual relations. Perineal damage is also associated with painful sex. Women who have an anal tear are less likely to have resumed sex after six months and one year, but they have normal sexual function 18 months later.\n\nAssisted vaginal delivery using suction or forceps is correlated with increases in the frequency or severity of painful sex, the delay in resuming sex, and sexual problems. Cesarean section may result in less painful sex during the first 3 months, or there may be no difference, and there is no difference in sexual function or symptoms by six months, although women who delivered by cesarean report greater sexual satisfaction relating to vaginal tone six years on.\n\nMany doctors recommend waiting four to six weeks before resuming sex, to allow the cervix to close, bleeding (known as lochia) to stop, and tears to heal. A study of women in Turkey found that 42% resumed sexual intercourse within six weeks of giving birth. American and British studies found that at six weeks, 57% of women had resumed sexual intercourse, 82–85% had by three months, and 89–90% had by six months. Sexual intercourse was resumed by two-thirds of Ugandan women within six months of childbirth, and among Chinese women 52% had resumed sex by two months and 95% had by six months.\n\nAbout half the men and women questioned eight months after childbirth in one British study described their sex life as ‘poor’ or ‘not very good’, though another found that 70% of British women and 89% of Taiwanese women were satisfied with their sex life during the postnatal period. Six months after giving birth, one quarter of American women said they had lower sexual sensation, satisfaction, and ability to reach orgasm, and 22% said that sex was painful. More than 80% of British women experienced sexual problems three months after giving birth, and nearly two-thirds at six months, compared to pre-pregnancy levels of 38%. Of Ugandan women who had resumed sex within six months of giving birth, nearly two-thirds experienced vaginal pain and about a third had discharge or bleeding.\n\nVaginal dryness may occur following giving birth for about three months due to hormonal changes. Women who breast-feed are much more likely to report painful sex as well as reduced libido, both due to hormonal changes such as a reduction in levels of estrogen. Women with major trauma reported less desire to be held, touched, or stroked by their partner.\n\nA fatal air embolism, when air enters the bloodstream, can occur due to sex shortly after childbirth before the placental bed has healed, particularly if the woman's knees are pressed against her chest, but this is rare. More common complications of having sex early after pregnancy are tears to incisions and infection of the uterus.\n\nHaving given birth within the previous year is associated with persistent low sexual desire. More than a third of first-time mothers report a loss of libido at eight months, though only 1 in 7 of experienced mothers have a loss of libido. Women often have a poor body image after giving birth. Women are often uncomfortable with their physical changes after birth, and often want sleep or to have time for themselves, which leads to a changed sexual pattern. Discordance of sexual desire with their partner is frequent. Another potential cause of low libido is postpartum depression; depressed women are less likely to have resumed sex at six months and more likely to report more sexual health problems.\n\nDissatisfaction with the sexual relationship a year after childbirth is associated with a lack of sex early in pregnancy as well as older ages of women, but not with factors relating to pregnancy or birth.\n\nOnly 15% of London women who had a postnatal sexual problem reported discussing it with a health professional, whereas 59.4% of Ugandan women who had resumed sex and had a sexual problem sought medical assistance. Performing pelvic floor muscle exercise appears to improve sexual function, and painful sex and vaginal dryness can be reduced using different sexual positions and lubricants. 83% of British and 60% of Taiwanese women thought they had sufficient information about sex during the postnatal period.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35597003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35597003", "title": "Sex education curriculum", "text": "Sex education curriculum\n\nA Sex education curriculum is a sex education program encompassing the methods, materials, and assessments exercised to inform individuals of the issues relating to human sexuality, including human sexual anatomy, sexual reproduction, sexual intercourse, reproductive health, emotional relations, reproductive rights and responsibilities, abstinence, birth control, and other aspects of human sexual behavior. Common sex education curricula include an abstinence-only approach, as well as a comprehensive approach, implemented in academia via the Internet, peer education, visual media, games, health care organizations, and school instruction.\n\nThe purpose of sexuality education curriculum in Europe is to facilitate adolescents to gain knowledge, attitudes, skills and values to make appropriate and healthy choices in their sexual behavior, thus preventing them from sexually transmitted infections, including HIV and HPV, teenage or unwanted pregnancies, and from domestic and sexual violence, contributing to a greater society. While European educators and policy makers recognize the benefits of sexuality education as being essential in the realm of sexual health, the content and approach of the curriculum have undergone significant changes over time and differ among each European country. Influenced by politics, as well as social and religious movements, European educators and policy makers recognize the struggle to find common criteria of sexuality education curriculum.\n\nResearchers identify the most common delivery of sexuality education curriculum as being through a biology, relationship, and ideological focus. In this form of curriculum, practiced through a moral and informative approach by a teacher’s instruction, attention is directed towards the reproductive and physical aspects of sexuality education rather than the emotional and social aspects. While this approach is identified as the most common form of sexuality education in Europe, Europe is not limited to this practice. With a total of twenty seven countries within the European Union, a wide variety of practices are implemented in an attempt to address and/or ignore sexuality education. European policy makers and educators recognize the need for an implementation of an ideal curriculum for European countries to adopt, while distinguishing the political, social, and religious movements that hinder this action.\n\nThe Safe Project was introduced by a coalition of European health organizations including the IPPF European Network, WHO Regional Office for Europe, and Lund University, in 2004 in response to European policy makers and educators speaking out about the political, social, and religious struggles encountered when implementing sexuality education curriculum in Europe. The SAFE project conducted extensive research, implemented advocacy, engaged the youth, and created a greater recognition among public health organizations of the sexual rights of European youth as well as the creation of a model curriculum, providing an outline of the ideal sexuality education curriculum to be practiced within the European Union. This model of sexuality education curriculum was charted in a ninety eight page product entitled \"The Reference Guide to Sexuality Education in Europe\", selling thousands of copies to public health organizations and journals, as well as various books within academia.\n\nThe ideal sexuality education curriculum within the European Union, as proposed by the SAFE Project, is one that would be provided for varying ages of students, from the primary to the secondary level. A multi-dimensional staff including public health professionals, school instructors with knowledge in the sciences, and non-governmental organizations, would be responsible for providing instruction in an interactive approach. Educators recognize the benefits of health organizations and agencies not only as offering a more emotional and social approach to sexuality education, but also expertise in recognizing issues among youth such as indications of sexual abuse, sexually transmitted diseases, and pregnancy. Similarly, non-government organizations(NGOs) provide students as well as the public with private counseling, sexuality seminars, public health campaigns, as well as peer-led informational groups, in which they are able to step outside of a strictly lecture and informational curriculum in sexuality education and accommodate the personal needs of European youth. While the ideal curriculum would be altered to accommodate the needs of its audience, its goal is to inform students on the topic of sexuality, raising awareness and therefore allowing students to make healthier decisions in regards to sexuality and relationship activity as well as European youth distinguishing their sexual rights. Younger audiences within the primary setting would be instructed by their classroom teacher in areas of puberty, sexual development, and bullying while secondary audiences would be instructed by a multi-dimensional staff in the topical areas of racism, homophobia, sexual violence, abstinence, safe sex, sexually transmitted diseases, pregnancy and contraceptives, as well as the biological, emotional, and social effects of sexuality.\n\nSeveral complications are associated with the implementation of an ideal sexuality education curriculum including the area and diversity of each European country, variances in political and religious views, and a lack of sustainability. \nThe area in which a country is located can affect religious and political beliefs, as well as resources and access to health education, similarly the idea of diversity and the exposure to information and resources as well.\nPolitics and religion are two controversial topics that both have strong oppositions to sexuality education. With strong oppositions and public protests, political and religious affiliated organizations voice their negative opinions of a sexuality education curriculum that informs youth of sexual resources and options concerning contraception and abortion. With sexuality education not being mandatory in all twenty seven countries of the European Union and the controversial opposition of political and religious organizations, policy makers are unable to make an ideal sexuality education curriculum concrete. \nA lack of sustainability within sexuality education curriculum is also an issue addressed by European policy makers and educators. Upon a country acknowledging the benefits, as well as a need for sexuality education, they implement the ideal sexuality education curriculum in which they see positive results in the decline of sexually transmitted diseases as well as teenage and unplanned pregnancies. Upon government officials recognizing the positive results of the curriculum, the program is eliminated due to the significant improvements and the mindset that the problem is fixed and therefore the curriculum is no longer needed. With governmental cuts in sexuality education programs as well as the funding provided for those programs, policy makers and educators face great difficulty in the implementation of a continent-wide curriculum.\n\nA child's mindset is shaped in numerous ways whether it is from their:\nAs they grow, sex education will become a topic in their life that they will be curious about. Depending on how they are raised, they will have many questions or no questions at all. This article explains sexual innocence and how children flourish as adults.\n\nArticle \"Sexuality Education in the United States:Shared Cultural Ideas across a Political Divide\" states that:\n\"Sexuality education debates and policy routinely posit young people as categorically less\nable, less intelligent, and less responsible than their adult counterparts. In the United\nStates, young people’s relationships are often denigrated as no more than puppy love,\ntheir sexual desires simply signs of raging hormones, and their sexual behaviors transgressions\nto control. Within this adultist framework, young people are at their best when\nsexually innocent. At their most vulnerable, they are on the verge of succumbing to sexual\ndanger; and, at their most corrupting, they are the source of significant risks to others.\"\n\nWebsite Official Website\n\nFor different parenting styles that could affect the way your child perceives sex:\nCheck out- Official Website\n\nSeveral benefits are associated with the implementation of this model of sexuality education curriculum, including youth empowerment, an increased awareness of sexuality, a decline in the acquiring or conveying of sexually transmitted diseases, as well as a decrease in unintended pregnancies.\n\nThe IPPF European Network strives for support and access to sexual and reproductive health services, while serving as a voice for the sexual rights of European individuals globally.\nThe WHO Regional Office for Europe advocates for public health, implements programs for disease prevention and control, addresses health threats, responds to health emergencies, and sustains and supports the implementation of public health policies.\nLund University is one of Europe’s most renowned universities, as well as one of the top one-hundred universities globally.\n\nSexuality education in Austria is addressed in the manner of a Biology, German, Religious Studies, and Social Studies/Factual Education curriculum through a method of formal classroom instruction. Sexuality education curriculum is introduced in a primary school setting, middle school setting, as well as a secondary setting. Topics discussed are differences between sexes, pregnancy, puberty and physical changes, genitals, masturbation, contraceptives, safe sex, abstinence, abortion, and sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nSexuality education in Belgium is a mandatory practice that offers schools a great amount of autonomy on the curriculum that they offer. Majority of the curriculum offered to students is mandated by school instructors calling upon outside resources such as health organizations or facilities for guidance. Topics discussed within the curriculum are gender, physical development, sexual orientation, intimacy, morality, and risk prevention.\n\nSexuality education is not mandatory in Bulgaria; therefore no minimum standards of a curriculum are intact. Students and parents are able to request an optional discipline of sexuality education in which the schooling system relies heavily on non-governmental organizations in relaying the information in the following topical areas of reproductive systems, HIV and AIDS, contraception, and violence.\n\nThe curriculum of sexuality education within Cyprus is referred to as \"Sexuality Education and Interpersonal Relationship Education\". The curriculum is taught through the instruction of biology, home economics, and religion educators in which a great emphasis is placed on the importance of family relationships and development, rather than sexuality.\n\nThe sexuality education curriculum in the Czech Republic is introduced to students by teachers and school staff with the reliance on non-governmental and health organizations as early as the age of seven. The curriculum is considered comprehensive, covering areas in sexual abuse, contraceptives, reproduction, sexual crimes, homophobia, pregnancies, and sexually transmitted diseases.\n\nSexuality Education has been mandatory since 1970 in Denmark in which school staff and educations have great autonomy within the curriculum. The curriculum is delivered through a biological and Danish focus, in which topics discussed include contraceptives, pregnancy, and puberty.\n\nSexuality education within Estonia is offered through the lens of human studies in formal classroom settings, in which an instructor focuses on a personal relationships curriculum.\n\nSexuality education is a mandatory practice in Greece in which a multi-dimensional team of teachers, nurses, and health organizations focus on the curriculum of biological and relational aspect of sexuality education, as well as human anatomy.\n\nSexuality education is referred to as \"Education for Family Life\" in Hungary in which a staff of teachers and health care professionals focus on a curriculum that addresses the human body, drinking, smoking, drugs, and AIDS.\n\nSexuality education in Ireland is a mandatory practice as of 2003, however parents are able to remove their children from the curriculum, focusing on a variety of topics in the areas of relational, social, and personal health.\n\nItaly, with great influence from the Catholic Church, has created a sexuality education curriculum taught through formal classroom instruction, focusing on the biological aspects of sex and behavior.\n\nSexuality education in Latvia is taught through a social science perspective in which instructors focus on a curriculum outlining the development of family, roles of family, gender, child development, relationships, and pregnancy.\n\nSexuality education in Lithuania is taught through the perspective of Biology, Ethics, and Physical Culture in which instructors base a curriculum off of their responsibility to inform students how to make healthy life style choices.\n\nSexuality education in Luxembourg is provided by teachers in the topical areas of biology, citizenship, and religion with a curriculum focusing on love, sexual activities, family, contraception, pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and drugs.\n\nSchool teachers and nurses are responsible for the implementation of sexuality education. A biological curriculum is common in which educators focus on the areas of sex, contraception, pregnancy, puberty, families, and relationships.\n\nSexuality education in Spain is not a mandatory practice however upon a school deciding to instruct its students on the topic, educators rely heavily on outside health organizations and professionals to provide private workshops.\n\nThe Victorian Government (Australia) developed a policy for the promotion of \"Health and Human Relations Education\" in schools in 1980 that was introduced into the State's primary and secondary schools during 1981. The initiative was developed and implemented by the Honorable Norman Lacy MP, Minister for Educational Services from 1979-1982.\n\nA \"Consultative Council for Health and Human Relations Education\" was established in December 1980 under the chairmanship of Dame Margaret Blackwood; its members possessed considerable expertise in the area.\n\nThe Council had three major functions:\n\nSupport services for the Consultative Council were provided by a new Health and Human Relations Unit within the \"Special Services Division\" of the \"Education Department of Victoria\" and was responsible for the implementation of the Government's policy and guidelines in this area. The Unit advised principals, school councils, teachers, parents, tertiary institutions and others in all aspects of \"Health and Human Relations Education\".\n\nIn 1981 the Consultative Council recommended the adoption of a set of guidelines for the provision of \"Health and Human Relations Education\" in schools as well as a Curriculum Statement to assist schools in the development of their programs. These were presented to the Victorian Cabinet in December 1981 and adopted as Government policy.\n\nA catalog of Canadian sex education films, ranging from 1953 to 2012, was recently compiled by researchers at the University of Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "7948816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7948816", "title": "Sidestream smoke", "text": "Sidestream smoke\n\nSidestream smoke is smoke which goes into the air directly from a burning cigarette, cigar, or smoking pipe. Sidestream smoke is the main component (around 85%) of second-hand smoke (SHS), also known as Environmental Tobacco Smoke (ETS) or passive smoking. The chemical constituents of sidestream smoke are different from those of directly inhaled (\"mainstream\") smoke. Sidestream smoke has been classified as a Class A carcinogen by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.\n\nLike mainstream smoke, sidestream tobacco smoke is made up of many components including carbon monoxide, tar, nicotine, ammonia, benzene, cadmium and 4-aminobiphenyl. Some of the other compounds found in sidestream smoke are: vinylchloride, hydrogen cyanide, arsenic, acrolein, acetaldehyde, formaldehyde, catechol, cresol, hydroquinone, lead, methyl ethyl ketone, nitric oxide, phenol, styrene, toluene, and butane. Exposure to sidestream smoke yields higher concentrations of these compounds as well as increased concentrations of carboxyhemoglobin, nicotine, and cotinine in the blood. When comparing sidestream and mainstream condensate, sidestream has 2–6 times more condensate per gram than mainstream smoke. Due to the incomplete combustion process responsible for the creation of sidestream smoke, there may be exposure to higher concentrations of carcinogens than are typically inhaled directly.\n\nThere are over 250 toxins and carcinogens in cigarette smoke. The risks of developing lung cancer, brain tumors, and acute myeloid leukemia and the incidence of heart disease and benign respiratory diseases increase with the inhalation of sidestream smoke. Additionally, the chance of developing breast cancer and cervical cancer also increases with the inhalation of sidestream smoke.\n\nEvidence has shown that sidestream smoke may be more harmful, per gram, than mainstream smoke. However, sidesmoke is inhaled in far lesser amounts than in people who smoke tobacco.\n\nThe relative risk of cardiovascular disease is 1.2–1.3 with exposure to sidestream smoke due the cyanide present in the smoke. There is also evidence that sidestream smoke causes negative effects in children, both behaviorally and cognitively. One study found that higher levels of cotinine in children were correlated with a decreased ability to perform in reading and math.\n\nFactors such as age, gender and different occupations put a person at risk for bladder cancer - smoking is the only other known risk. 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP) is an integral component in tobacco smoke, as well as a risk factor for bladder cancer. Sidestream smoke puts individuals at an increased risk of bladder cancer because the 4-ABP concentrations are over ten times that of mainstream smoke.\n\nA non-smoker who is inhaling sidestream or second-hand smoke has a 30% greater risk of getting lung cancer at some point in their lives. Exposure to second hand or sidestream smoke has been associated with people who have not smoked before.\n\nThe US Environmental Protection Agency estimates sidestream smoke causes approximately 3,000 lung cancer deaths and 62,000 deaths from heart disease in non-smokers every year in the United States.\n\nA child's exposure to contaminants in the air can have detrimental health effects including heightened risk of respiratory tract infections, increased likelihood of childhood asthma, behavioural problems and reduced neurocognitive abilities. Exposure to mainstream and sidestream smoke in childhood poses an increased risk of coughing, wheezing, and mucus production. Studies on rats have shown that those who were exposed to sidestream smoke while in utero and following the period directly after, had differences in airway sensitivity in comparison to those that had been exposed to sidestream smoke only while in utero or only following the period after.\n\nA reduction in glutathione levels was observed following exposure to sidestream smoke in vitro. Glutathione is an antioxidant which resides in the lung after development. Exposure to sidestream smoke for as little as twenty minutes can lead to an increase in contaminant particles within human small airway epithelial cells (SAEC). Cells exposed to sidestream smoke experienced oxidative stress, which further allowed for DNA damage as well as cell transformation and an uncontrolled cell proliferation. Such DNA mutations and uncontrolled cell division resulting from exposure to sidestream smoke may result in cancerous tumours.\n\nDuring the 1980s the Philip Morris Tobacco Company carried out research on sidestream smoke at the Institut für Biologische Forschung, although this was not voluntarily published. This study found that sidestream smoke is nearly four times more toxic than mainstream smoke per metric gramme. They also found that sidestream condensate was nearly three times more toxic than mainstream smoke as well as 2–6 times more tumourigenic per gram than mainstream condensate when applied to the skin of a mouse; results also showed that sidestream smoke hinders an animal's ability to reach a weight that is considered normal. The research team concluded that the only way to protect oneself from sidestream smoke was to be in smoke-free public places and workspaces.\n\n"}
{"id": "17893971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17893971", "title": "Surgical sieve", "text": "Surgical sieve\n\nThe surgical sieve is a thought process in medicine. It is a typical example of how to organise a structured examination answer for medical students and physicians when they are challenged with a question. It is also a way of constructing answers to questions from patients and their relatives in a logical manner, and structuring articles and reference texts in medicine. Some textbooks put emphasis on using the surgical sieve as a basic structure of diagnosis and management of illnesses.\n\nAlthough there are several versions around the world with slight variations, the surgical sieve usually consist of the following types of process in the human body in any particular order:\n\nA more extensive, and perhaps more concise mechanism of employing the surgical sieve is using the mnemonic MEDIC HAT PINE:\n\nWhat are the causes of an acute confusional state in a patient?\n\nWhat are the causes of splenomegaly?\n\nRobbins \"Pathologic Basis Of Disease\" is an internationally used reference textbook in pathology. Its chapters under the heading 'General Pathology' can be considered to be a version of the surgical sieve:\n\n3. Acute and chronic \"inflammation\"\n4. Tissue Repair\n5. \"Hemodynamic\" Disorders\n6. \"Genetic\" Disorders\n7. Diseases of \"Immunity\"\n8. \"Neoplasia\"\n9. \"Infectious Diseases\"\n10. \"Environmental and Nutritional\" Pathology\n\nThe surgical sieve is frequently used by Gregory House, who is a physician in the TV series \"House\" in order to diagnose the rare diseases that his patients are suffering from. In some episodes various forms of the surgical sieve are scribbled on to House's whiteboard while his team struggle to diagnose difficult cases. In the episode 'Paternity' the mnemonic 'MIDNIT' is used to run through the sieve (metabolic, inflammation, degenerative, neoplastic, infection, trauma).\n"}
{"id": "26452347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26452347", "title": "Yae Ibuka", "text": "Yae Ibuka\n\n\nOn 23 October 1897 she was born in Taipei, Formosa (now Taiwan) as a daughter of a congressman, Hikosaburo Ibuka. She graduated from Doshisha Women's College(now University), and she was teaching English at Nagasaki, when she developed a skin change, which was diagnosed as a sign of leprosy. She was hospitalized at Koyama Fukusei Hospital without knowing the diagnosis. The diagnosis was shocking to her. Since her disease did not progress, she sought the diagnosis of Prof. Keizo Dohi of Tokyo University in 1922. Leprosy was denied. Observing the director of the hospital, she was determined to work for leprosy patients and became a nurse. In 1923, she became the only one qualified nurse at the hospital. She had remained the chief nurse at the hospital until 6 April 1978, when she became the honorary chief nurse. Her dedication to leprosy patients was highly appreciated. She became the first president of Japan Catholic Nurses' Association. She died on 15 May 1989, one day before the 100th year anniversary of the Koyama Fukusei Hospital. On May 16, she was given a special award by Princess Takamatsu (Kikuko) of Japan.\n\n\n\n"}
