{"id": "44770625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44770625", "title": "13-Methyltetradecanoic acid", "text": "13-Methyltetradecanoic acid\n\n13-Methyltetradecanoic acid (13-MTD) is a fatty acid known to induce apoptosis or “programmed cell death” of certain human cancer cells. 13-MTD was originally purified from a soy fermentation product and can be chemically synthesized; however, the synthesized form contains the same biological property of its natural form.\n\nDecades ago, Pentagenic Pharmaceuticals (Diamond Bar, CA) engineered a soy fermentation product named Yang Zhen Hua 851 through a process of bacterial fermentation. Beginning in 1985, thousands of cancer patients have accepted Yang Zhen Hua 851 as an alternative to traditional chemotherapy and experienced improvements in their health and clinical conditions. Once exclusive to China, the soy fermentation product is now used in the United States.\n\nMore recently, research has indicated that the component most likely responsible for the anticancer agency in Yang Zhen Hua 851 is 13-Methyltetradecanoic acid. The fatty chain acid is most abundant in Yang Zhen Hua 851 and responds aggressively towards tumor cells through apoptosis. (Essentially, apoptosis is a process of cell death initiated by the presence or absence of certain stimuli.) Thus 13-MTD has become of great interest to the scientific community, and research has been conducted in an effort to understand how 13-MTD induces apoptosis on a molecular level; moreover, the medical implications of 13-MTD as an alternative to drug chemotherapy are currently being considered.\n\nTo understand how 13-MTD actually induces apoptosis, researchers studied the fatty chain acid’s anticancer activity on tumor cells developing in T Cell Lymphomas. The tests were conducted in vitro (in the lab) and in vivo (in body). The results showed that 13-MTD inhibits tumor cell growth by “down-regulating” p-AKT. AKT is a serine–threonine kinase that regulates cell survival. However, AKT’s regulation of cells becomes dysfunctional as cancerous cells develop. Essentially, cancerous cells attack the AKT and manage to switch and keep AKT’s signals “on,” resulting in cell dysfunction. 13-MTD helps down-regulate AKT, allowing stability in cells and inducing programmed cell death to the tumor cells.\n\nIn a related study, researchers investigated 13-MTD’s anticancer activity in bladder cells. The results indicated that 13-MTD inhibits the growth of human bladder cancer cells through “mitochondrial-mediated” apoptosis. Moreover, data indicated that apoptosis was achieved by 13-MTD regulating the AKT and MAPK pathways. (The MAPK pathway is a chain of cell proteins that transfer information from the cell’s surface, through a receptor, to the cell’s DNA.) 13-MTD brings stability to the cell by down-regulating signals that the cell receives and sends, and also by activating necessary agents to combat cancer cells. For these reasons, 13-MTD has been considered a possible chemotherapeutic supplement.\n\nThe results from the scores of studies conducted on 13-MTD indicate that 13-MTD can be a possible chemotherapeutic supplement. The fatty chain acid’s ability to resist and inhibit cancerous cells through apoptosis is impressive; however, what separates 13-MTD from chemical drugs and other fatty acids is the lack of toxicity levels and minimal side effects presented.\n\nPublished work documents the treatment of both rats and humans with 13-MTD throughout a 42-day period. The researchers studied adipose (body fat) tissue turnover and noted that 13-MTD did not harm participants. Furthermore, since 13-MTD is not produced in the human body like other fatty chain acids, its effectiveness does not depend on the body’s environmental state or stress levels. Being a foreign agent, 13-MTD works effectively against a host of cancerous mutations in the body, whereas other fatty acids fail.\n\nThe research gathered on 13-MTD and the benefits it provides have helped introduce the fatty chain acid to the scientific community as a possible chemotherapeutic agent against cancer. Considering 13-MTD’s effective apoptosis of certain human cancer cells and the low toxicity levels it presents, the medical implications of 13-MTD will continue to be studied and developed.\n"}
{"id": "43445927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43445927", "title": "2014 Kaohsiung gas explosions", "text": "2014 Kaohsiung gas explosions\n\nOn 31 July 2014, a series of gas explosions occurred in the Cianjhen and Lingya districts of Kaohsiung, Taiwan, following reports of gas leaks earlier that night. Thirty-two people were killed and 321 others were injured.\n\nEyewitnesses reported a smell of gas and white smoke coming out of manholes near Kaisyuan 3rd Road and Ersheng 1st Road in Cianjhen District on 31 July 2014 at 20:46, over three hours prior to the incident. The explosions occurred later at 23:57 on Yisin Road, Ersheng Road, Sanduo Road and Guanghua Road.\n\nWitnesses reported seeing fireballs soaring into the sky and flames reaching 15 stories high. The blasts ripped up roads, trapped and overturned cars and firetrucks, and caused a blackout to the electrical grid. About 6 km of road length were damaged. The explosions reportedly blew cars and motorcycles high up in the air; some vehicles and victims were found at the rooftops of buildings three or four stories high. One street had been split along its length, swallowing fire trucks and other vehicles.\n\nPremier Jiang Yi-huah stated that there had been at least five blasts around the city. The blasts cut gas supplies to 23,600 households, electricity to 12,000 households, and water to 8,000 households.\n\nFirefighters from Kaohsiung City, Chiayi City, Pingtung County, Tainan City and Taitung County rushed to the scene to extinguish the fires and help the rescue efforts. Some of the firefighters also sprayed water on the roads in the hope to reduce the ground temperature. During the incident, four firefighters lost their lives, with two of them going missing; the explosions also injured 22 other emergency workers. The Taiwanese army was also dispatched and arrived at the site within two hours after the initial explosion.\n\nEmergency rooms in hospitals around Kaohsiung were packed with casualties that night, with most of them having suffered cuts and burns. Some of the injured people had to be carried to hospitals by trucks due to the lack of ambulances. All of the casualties were sent to more than 20 hospitals around the city, including Chung-Ho Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung Veterans General Hospital, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Yuan's General Hospital, Armed Forces General Hospital, and Kaohsiung Municipal United Hospitals.\n\nBy the following morning, most of the fires had been fully extinguished or had burnt out by themselves, but a few remained. Paramedics, search and rescue dogs and helicopters swept the area looking for survivors. Heavy construction equipment was brought to the blast site to begin removing debris from the street. Schools and offices were closed on that day and residents were asked to leave their houses to smooth out the search and rescue operations. By afternoon, hundreds of people who fled the explosion scenes had returned home after houses around the explosion areas had been declared safe by the city spokesman. They confirmed that no more explosions could happen and that all of the fire had been put out. Traffic restrictions were put in place on Sanduo, Guanghua, Yixin, and Kaisyuan Roads. Taiwan Area National Freeway Bureau also closed the northbound exit from Sun Yat-sen Freeway to Sanduo Road. However, Kaohsiung MRT and buses were not affected by the search and rescue works.\n\nTo help the city in the rescue efforts, at 22:30 on Friday night the Taiwan Power Company (Taipower) shut down their four sets of generators fed with liquid natural gas, even though none of their pipelines had been damaged during the explosions. The shutdown lowered Taiwan's total electricity output by 1,100 MW, or about 2.7% of the total capacity. The decision to stop the supply was reached after a discussion between the Kaohsiung City Government and the oil refinery CPC Corporation, so that road repair and other disaster relief work could proceed without interruption. With their total generation expected to reach 36,970 MW in the peak hours of the coming week, Taipower has an excess capacity of 3,170 MW and thus can still meet the local energy demand in Kaohsiung. As a precaution, China Petrochemical Development Co., which also operates in Kaohsiung, reduced the gas pressure in its propene pipelines.\n\nOn Sunday, another 1,885 servicemen were deployed for the search and rescue operation at the explosion sites, bringing the total servicemen deployed during the incident to 5,567 people. Included among the servicemen were the chemical detection troops who continued to monitor any leaking gas. Equipment such as 22 ambulances, 3 chemical-detection vehicles, 13 excavators, 26 life detecting monitors, and other equipment were also being used in the rescue efforts. The rescue works attracted many passerby to watch, wander, or even for an \"adventure date\" in conjunction with Chinese Valentine's Day, a move considered disrespectful for the dead. The police had to ask them to leave and ask the public to stay away from the areas where the explosions occurred, citing the fragility of the ground or the ruined buildings around.\n\nThe remaining 260 tons of propene inside the damaged pipes was vented out completely by Monday from both of their input and output points. Nitrogen gas was put into pipes ensuring all propene had been removed, a move which had been done earlier by the CPC. The Environmental Protection Administration also had dispatched personnel to Kaohsiung to assist local government in air pollution monitoring.\n\nOn 5 August, the Kaohsiung District Prosecutor's Office issued the death certificates of two missing firefighters who had fought the fires caused by the gas explosions, despite their bodies having yet to be found. The prosecutors said that rescuers could not find the bodies and suspected that they might have been vaporized from the explosions.\n\nOn 8 August, another gas leak was reported in Cianjhen District shortly before 7:50 a.m causing widespread panic among residents. People who lived within 150 meters radius of Kaisyuan 3rd Road were evacuated the city police department to Kaohsiung Municipal Guanghua Junior High School and Le Chyuan Elementary School, raising concern among residents over their safety. Authorities tried to pin down the source of the gas and they dispatched personnel to the intersection of Yisin and Kaisyuan Roads. The gas concentration level reading peaked at 5,000 ppm at around 11 a.m which was mostly methane. However, by 14:30 the concentration level finally dropped below 10 ppm. Early measurements indicated that at least four gases leaked were methane, propene, ethylene and butane.\n\nOn 9 August, the Kaohsiung City Government ordered LCY to halt all of operations until its plan to improve pipeline safety had been reviewed by the government. Should LCY refuse to do so, the government would notify the Taipower and Taiwan Water Corporation to stop providing the company with electricity and water respectively.\n\nThe Minister of Economic Affairs Chang Chia-juch, acting as the Director of the Central Emergency Operation Center, suspected that the explosions were caused by a propene leak, and the firefighters could not extinguish the fires with water. Emergency workers had to wait until the gas had burnt away after the supply was shut down. It is suspected that the affected pipelines were those used for gas delivery to the petrochemical factory LCY Chemical Corp. (LCY; ).\n\nThe affected pipelines were designed and constructed by the government-owned CPC Corporation. However, CPC said that the pipeline system did not show any sign of problems before the explosion. The gas pipelines were approved in 1990 by Vice President Wu Den-yih, who served as mayor of Kaohsiung from 1990 to 1998, and the construction was completed in 1994. The pipelines had not been properly inspected for 24 years.\n\nThe Kaohsiung City Government found out that a 4-inch pipeline delivering propene to Ren Da Industrial Park was found to encounter abnormal pressure between 20:40 and 21:00 the night the gas leak was discovered.\n\nPressure in the LCY piping system used to transport propene from one of its suppliers began to show abnormality starting 20:00 Thursday night and 3.77 tons of propene leaked between 20:00 and 21:00 The company did not shut down the pipe until 23:40, 16 minutes before the first gas explosion occurred. The concentration of the propene at the explosion site was abnormally high at 13,000 ppm. In a press conference on Friday, LCY CEO said that the company is fully cooperating with the authorities in the investigation and the company will bear the responsibility if found guilty.\n\nDuring a press conference on Sunday at the Taiwan Stock Exchange in Taipei, LCY said that it was the responsibility of CPC to design and check the gas pipes. CPC responded that the pipes belonged to LCY and CPC did not have any maintenance contract with them. LCY further explained that detecting pressure drops indicating gas leaks was the responsibility of the China General Terminal and Distribution Corporation (CGTD; ), who transport LCY's petrochemicals through the pipes. LCY claimed they first detected abnormalities when the propene supply completely ceased at 8:49 p.m and returned to normal half an hour later. At 22:35, they detected further problems, shutting down transporting immediately. According to Kaohsiung's top environment official, though, 3.77 metric tons of gas had leaked already between 20:00 and 21:00, and the pipe system was only shut down at 23:40 - just 16 minutes before the explosion.\n\nOn 5 August, the Kaohsiung District Prosecutors Office (KDPO) retrieved documents and records related to propene transport after they raided LCY and CGTD offices a day before. Several employees were brought to the prosecutors office for questioning. To better investigate the causes of the accident, KDPO also invited domestic metal and petrochemical experts to the blast areas to collect evidence. On 18 December, the CEO and five employees of LCY Chemical, three employees of China General Terminal and Distribution, and three employees of the Kaohsiung Public Works Bureau were indicted for their role in the incident. The indictment charges these three groups with negligence, due to their failure to inspect or maintain the pipeline.\n\nPresident Ma Ying-jeou ordered full rescue efforts to help the blast victims. During his visit to Kaohsiung on Saturday to visit injured patients in hospitals and view the explosion sites, President Ma vowed to fully investigate the cause of the incident and to review the underground piping networks, stressing the need for a more comprehensive design and efficient management.\n\nDuring his inspection of the damage in Kaohsiung, Premier Jiang Yi-huah, ordered the Taiwanese national flag to be flown at half-mast for three days starting 5 August to commemorate the victims of the gas explosions and also the TransAsia Airways Flight 222 crash a week before in Penghu County.\n\nVice Premier Mao Chi-kuo said during the rescue and relief effort works that public utilities companies would work hard to resume power and water supplies within three to five days. Taiwan Power Company said that power supply to about 3,900 households in less-affected areas should resume in two days, while temporary overhead lines set up to supply the worst-hit areas were expected to allow electricity to resume in three days. Taiwan Water Corporation said that the city government agreed to temporary water pipelines to supply the affected areas within five days. However, there was no schedule set up to resume the gas supply for the affected areas.\n\nKaohsiung City Mayor Chen Chu said that schools and offices in the affected districts were closed the day after the explosion to facilitate search and rescue. She ordered gas supply companies CPC Corporation and Hsin Kao Gas to cut off gas delivery along the gas pipelines after the first explosion occurred. Mayor Chen asked President Ma to study and review the underground petrochemical pipeline system in Kaohsiung to avoid similar accidents in the future, which could eventually involve rerouting to avoid densely populated areas. She also asked the central government to help Kaohsiung City Government to replace all of the ageing pipes, many of which have been in operation for a period of 20–30 years, and in some cases for more than 40 years.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defense deployed around 1,600 soldiers for the rescue operations, including 131 transport vehicles, 29 ambulances, 3 fire trucks, 3 chemical-detection vehicles, 15 engineering machines and other equipment. The ministry also provided blast victims with free accommodations at military bases.\n\nMayor Chen's party, Democratic Progressive Party (DPP), suspended all of their upcoming municipal and local election activities scheduled for November after an emergency meeting chaired by Chairperson Tsai Ing-wen. DPP also asked other municipalities and counties led by DPP to help with the rescue efforts in Kaohsiung. The ruling Kuomintang party also suspended all of their upcoming activities.\n\nSeveral major festivals in Taiwan, such as Qixi Festival and Dadaocheng Fireworks Festival, were cancelled as a result of the incident.\n\nThe Financial Supervisory Commission announced on Friday that it had instructed insurance companies to provide expedited insurance claims to all affected individuals and businesses in the area. They also stated that individuals and businesses may apply to the Ministry of Economic Affairs for assistance.\n\nPublic reactions towards the government have been largely negative, criticizing what was seen as a slow response by the authorities to stop and isolate the gas leak after it was first reported. In wake of the disaster, many local residents have said that the government should relocate the gas pipes away from their neighborhoods. One resident claimed that he had notified city authorities prior to the explosion when he smelled a gas odor near his apartment. However, authorities told him that the situation was under control and had been declared safe after police and firefighters arrived at the scene. Kaohsiung city authorities responded to these criticisms by saying that had residents been evacuated prior to the explosions, there may have been even more fatalities, since most of the injured or dead were those on the roads at the time of the incidents. According to Taipower, staying indoors was the best precaution that could be taken for people facing such a disaster. The Kuomintang caucus of the Kaohsiung City Council sued Mayor Chen Chu for negligence that led to loss of life. The Democratic Progressive Party caucus responded by filing a lawsuit against former Kaohsiung mayor Wu Den-yih, for \"illegitimately\" allowing the pipelines to be buried. Wu then publicized documents stating that the pipes were installed before his leadership of Kaohsiung.\n\n\nA total of ten emergency shelters consisting of several schools and a cultural center were used for the 12,000 people who had evacuated overnight. Many people, including high school students, had volunteered to help the post-disaster relief efforts by helping with the relief supplies distribution and offering of other services, such as counseling.\n\nDozens of hotels around Kaohsiung offered temporary free lodging, laundry and washroom facilities for the people who were left homeless after their houses were damaged by the blast. Restaurants, supermarkets and convenience stores also provided various kinds of supports.\n\nRelief supplies and works, such as food, blanket, sleeping bags, bottled water, injury and emergency assistance, counseling and funeral arrangements, were made possible by the Tzu Chi Foundation, the Kaohsiung Branch of the Taiwanese Red Cross, the Sunshine Social Welfare Foundation and many other foundations. Religious rituals were also held at the blast sites for grieving relatives who had lost their loved ones.\n\nDonations also came from enterprise sectors, such as Formosa Plastics Group, Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Foxconn, Kinpo Group, Acer Inc., HTC, E-United Group, Chailease Holding Co., MediaTek, Fubon Financial Holding Co., Capital Bus Company, Taipei Bus Company, Shanghai Commercial Bank, Tripod Technology, RT-Mart, Taiflex and many others. Companies such as FamilyMart, 7-Eleven, Chinese Television Service and Videoland Television Network also organized fund-raising drives and events for the blast victims. Taiwanese businesses operating in Beijing and Shanghai also joined in donating money for the blast victims.\n\nTaipei Mayor Hau Lung-pin offered NT$200,000 to the families of the blast victims. Sean Lien and Ko Wen-je, candidates for Mayor of Taipei in the upcoming municipal elections on 29 November 2014, donated NT$2,000,000 and NT$400,000 respectively. In a joint statement, five leaders from the DPP-controlled counties and municipality pledged to donate one month of their salary to the blast victims, which are Chiayi County Magistrate Helen Chang, Pingtung County Magistrate Tsao Chi-hung, Yilan County Magistrate Lin Tsung-hsien, Yunlin County Magistrate Su Chih-fen and Tainan City Mayor William Lai.\n\nTaiwanese singers such as Kenji Wu, Mayday, and Peter Ho and Chinese mainland singer Ding Dang joined the public in giving donations to support the blast victims, since many of their relatives also live in Kaohsiung.\n\nThe Ministry of Culture launched a poetry drive to honor the blast victims posted on the ministry's Facebook page. Culture Minister Lung Ying-tai herself contributed a poem entitled \"If I Had Known Earlier\" ().\n\nThe Ministry of Health and Welfare has been providing services to hold counselings to help residents to go through posttraumatic stress disorder by mobilizing medical personnel and social workers to the affected district areas. The services will be in place for the next two to three months.\n\nDespite the donations and support Kaohsiung had received, many victims complained that they had to wait in line for more than two hours to get them. Some people were also caught on camera pretending that they were the explosion victims or taking turns in group to get the donations several times more than what they were supposed to get.\n\nAs of 7 August, a total NT$2.38 billion worth of donations had been received from companies and individuals, with another NT$1.6 billion funds agreed to be provided by the Executive Yuan.\n\nThe initial estimation of the total damage done to Kaohsiung City due to the blast reached around NT$1.9 billion for rebuilding the damaged roads and drainage system. However, the cost may arise higher if the cost to rebuild damaged buildings and to compensate victims are included in order to get their live back on track as soon as possible.\n\nThe rebuilding of the 6 km damaged road began on Monday by road resurfacing. Sanduo Road work was done by Maintenance Office of the Kaohsiung City Government, Yisin Road by New Construction Office and Kaisyuan Road by Water Resources Bureau. The restoration works included the repaving of the roads, reparation of the damaged sidewalks and replanting of trees along the road which would cost around NT$600 million. The restoration of the rain water drainage system under the road will take around three months which costs another NT$600 million.\n\nAround 1,500 stores along the damaged roads are affected with the reconstruction work of the roads, which lead the owners to temporarily close their stores due to lack of customers. Some of the business owners at Kaisyuan Road are already looking for relocation than waiting for the roadwork to finish in months. The Economic Development Bureau had received registrations from 1,275 companies so far for compensation related to the disaster. The bureau added that the city government will give tax reductions for the affected stores and will construct temporary paths to allow access to the areas without roadworks, and businesses could also apply for social aid.\n\nIn the coming days after the explosions, restoration and reconstruction works had mostly been hampered, delayed or sometimes halted by heavy rain and the excessive flooding around the area due to the rain. Trenches created from the blasts were flooded and water flow was blocked due to the damaged sewage, culverts and drainage system. Water pipes had been utilized to minimize flooding in some areas of the city. Armies and fire fighters also were put on standby ready to be deployed with life rafts whenever needed.\n\nOn 20 November 2014, the Sanduo, Kaisyuan and Yishin Roads were finally opened again for traffic after restoration works. In the end of December 2014, in order to revive the economic activities to the affected stores and shops area, the Kaohsiung City Government held lucky draws and other promotional sales to attract consumption at those stores.\n\nShare prices of several Taiwanese petrochemical companies took a dive in the aftermath of the explosions, especially those operating in Kaohsiung. The shares of LCY has dropped 30% since the explosions day.\n\nDeputy Minister of Economic Affairs Woody Duh said that the ministry would set up a system soon to help check the underground pipelines and build a database for safety management in the future, starting from Kaohsiung and followed by other cities, municipalities and counties. Duh mentioned that relocation of the Kaohsiung underground pipelines would be considered once the roadworks are completed.\n\nTaipei City Government ordered mandatory inspections of all four major gas pipelines in Taipei within a week after reports of gas leakage smell in Zhongshan and Wanhua Districts for five consecutive days. Great Taipei Gas had earlier inspected the site and found no immediate danger, adding that the firm had sealed the leaks and plans to change the pipes. Still at Zhongshan District, the gas company did some maintenance work to the reported gas leak near Songjiang Road. On Friday, Taipei Deputy Mayor Chen Hsiung-wen led an inspection of a gas storage unit in Neihu District and said that underground gas pipelines crossing Taipei City carry low-pressure gas and do not carry any chemical substances. He also added that major gas suppliers are required to inspect all of their pipelines within a week. The city government also later on launched a website for Taipei residents to check what types of underground cables and pipelines running near their houses, ranging from electric lines, telecommunication lines, and pipelines used to transport sanitized water, waste water, rain water, natural gas and oil.\n\nFew days after the blast, Premier Jiang Yi-huah appointed the Ministry of Economic Affairs to gather and sort out Taiwan's entire underground petrochemical pipeline network information and to establish a management system to avoid similar accidents from happening in the future, adding that such a management system would help local governments to determine which petrochemical pipelines need to be relocated and which ones can stay in place.\n\nA People First Party legislator called on the local governments to form agencies that deal with chemical hazards and employ trained professionals to oversee disaster management, and to better educate firefighters on the nature of different chemicals in order to make correct decisions and reduce casualties.\n\nOn 6 August, Premier Jiang Yi-huah and Economic Affairs Minister Chang Chia-juch came under fire and were asked to step down by demonstrators after Jiang's \"Three Noes\" remarks on 4 August stating that there were no need for a special provision bill, financial assistance through special budget allocation, and a dedicated agency to administer post disaster relief and reconstruction for Kaohsiung. Also on the same day, residents and DPP councilors of Kaohsiung City Council went to Taiwan Kaohsiung District Court to protest against LCY in an attempt to prevent the company from avoiding compensation payments over the gas blasts. Mayor Chen said that Kaohsiung City Government had frozen firm assets and properties worth around NT$1.9 billion as a precautionary measure.\n\nOn 7 August, in order to take the responsibility for the blast, Kaohsiung City Deputy Mayor Wu Hong-mo, Water Resources Bureau Director Lee Hsien-yi, Public Works Bureau Director Chen Tsun-yung and Kaohsiung Mass Rapid Transit Bureau Director Chen Tsun-yung tendered their resignation, a move which Mayor Chen praised and that she approved and stated that the resignation would take effect after the relief works ended.\n\nIn the evening, the Ministry of Economic Affairs issued a statement saying that Minister Chang Chia-juch and Deputy Minister Woody Duh had also tendered his resignation earlier at 10 a.m. to the Executive Yuan due to the difficult political environment as a result of persistent boycott by opposition parties over several economic policies in the past 1.5 years. Despite Premier Jiang Yi-huah efforts to persuade Chang to stay in his ministerial position, the Executive Yuan finally approved his resignation on 10 August and appointed Deputy Minister Woody Duh to replace Chang.\n\nFunerals for the deceased was held on the same day at Kaohsiung municipal mortuary, attended by Vice Premier Mao Chi-kuo, Kaohsiung Mayor Chen Chu, Minister without Portfolio Yang Chiu-hsing, DPP Chairperson Tsai Ing-wen and also LCY Chairman Bowei Lee. Lee bowed his head to apologize to the families of the blast victims, promising them that the company would provide good financial compensation to them.\n\nOn 12 August, a national religious service was held in Kaohsiung Arena, bringing together around 10,000 people from 30 local religious groups covering Buddhism, Christianity, Islam and Taoism. President Ma Ying-jeou, who also attended the event, commended the soldiers and firefighters who risked their lives in saving life of the people. He reassured the audience that the government would provide the necessary assistance to help Kaohsiung residence back to their normal life as soon as possible. He also expressed his gratitude to the business and volunteers who had made generous contributions to the relief and reconstruction efforts after the blast disaster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37186837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37186837", "title": "ANAIS", "text": "ANAIS\n\nANAIS is a particle detector experiment designed to detect dark matter. ANAIS stands for \"Annual modulation with NAI Scintillators\". Its main goal is the direct detection of the dark matter through its scattering off the target nuclei in a radiopure NaI(Tl) crystal. This dark matter signal should be annually modulated by the change in the relative velocity of WIMP-nucleus, a result of the rotation of the Earth around the Sun.\n\nANAIS is the scaled conclusion of feasibility studies carried out with different prototypes by the University of Zaragoza group at the Canfranc Underground Laboratory, Spain. The complete experiment will use more than one hundred of kg of ultrapure sodium-iodine NaI(Tl) crystals. Data recording began at the end of October 2012 using 25 kg in two prototype detectors as the last step before launching the larger experiment. A third detector was installed in 2014 showing a better radiopurity allowing the commissioning of the full experiment expected by mid-2016.\n\nDAMA/NaI and DAMA/LIBRA, experimental efforts performed at the Gran Sasso National Laboratory, accumulated more than thirteen annual cycles of data (also with NaI scintillators), obtaining a positive signal. Comparison of that result with negative results from other targets and experimental techniques is strongly model dependent. ANAIS (adopting the same target and technique that DAMA/LIBRA) appeared in the last roadmap of ApPEC (Astroparticle Physics European Coordination) to allow testing with an independent experimental set-up and in a model-independent way.\n\n"}
{"id": "48934114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48934114", "title": "Angle of incidence (aerodynamics)", "text": "Angle of incidence (aerodynamics)\n\nOn fixed-wing aircraft, the angle of incidence (sometimes referred to as the \"mounting angle\") is the angle between the chord line of the wing where the wing is mounted to the fuselage, and a reference axis along the fuselage (often the direction of minimum drag, or where applicable, the longitudinal axis). The angle of incidence is fixed in the design of the aircraft, and with rare exceptions, cannot be varied in flight.\n\nThe term can also be applied to horizontal surfaces in general (such as canards or horizontal stabilizers) for the angle they make relative the longitudinal axis of the fuselage.\n\nThe figure to the right shows a side view of an airplane. The extended chord line of the wing root (red line) makes an angle with the longitudinal axis (roll axis) of the aircraft (blue line). Wings are typically mounted at a small positive angle of incidence, to allow the fuselage to have a low angle with the airflow in cruising flight. Angles of incidence of about 6° are common on most general aviation designs.\nOther terms for angle of incidence in this context are \"rigging angle\" and \"rigger's angle of incidence\". It should not be confused with the angle of attack, which is the angle the wing chord presents to the airflow in flight. Note that some ambiguity in this terminology exists, as some engineering texts that focus solely on the study of airfoils and their medium may use either term when referring to angle of attack.\n"}
{"id": "5408726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5408726", "title": "Arches paper", "text": "Arches paper\n\nArches paper is a brand of air-dried paper that is used by printers and watercolorists. It has a warm white colour and is produced in hot-pressed, cold-pressed, and rough varieties. Arches paper is made in the village of Arches in the Vosges, France.\n\nThe history of Arches starts in 1492 when the Arches site completed the amalgamation of the paper-making facilities around the village of Arches, south of Epinal. \n\nThe Moulins d'Arches turned to the production of high quality paper for writing and art publication. The mill thus produced paper for incunables (the name given to the first printed books), such as the \"Chronique de Nuremberg\" by Dürer. Also printed on Arches paper was the \"Description De L'Égypte\" commissioned by Napoleon I upon his return from his Egyptian campaign. The work was used by the royalty from 1809 to 1828.\n\nThe product range comprises the following papers:\n\n"}
{"id": "30329560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30329560", "title": "Berry connection and curvature", "text": "Berry connection and curvature\n\nIn physics, Berry connection and Berry curvature are related concepts which can be viewed, respectively, as a local gauge potential and gauge field associated with the Berry phase. These concepts were introduced by Michael Berry in a paper published in 1984\nemphasizing how geometric phases provide a powerful unifying concept in several branches of classical and quantum physics. Such phases have come to be known as Berry phases.\n\nIn quantum mechanics, the Berry phase arises in a cyclic adiabatic evolution. The quantum adiabatic theorem applies to a system whose Hamiltonian formula_1 depends on a (vector) parameter formula_2 that varies with time formula_3. If the formula_4'th eigenvalue formula_5 remains non-degenerate everywhere along the path and the variation with time \"t\" is sufficiently slow, then a system initially in the eigenstate \nformula_6 will remain in an instantaneous eigenstate formula_7 of the Hamiltonian formula_8, up to a phase, throughout the process. Regarding the phase, the state at time \"t\" can be written as\nwhere the second exponential term is the \"dynamic phase factor.\" The first exponential term is the geometric term, with formula_10 being the Berry phase. By plugging into the time-dependent Schrödinger equation, it can be shown that\nindicating that the Berry phase only depends on the path in the parameter space, not on the rate at which the path is traversed.\n\nIn the case of a cyclic evolution around a closed path formula_12 such that formula_13, the closed-path Berry phase is\nAn example of physical system where an electron moves along a closed path is cyclotron motion (details are given in the page of Berry phase). Berry phase must be considered to obtain the correct quantization condition.\n\nWithout changing the physics, we can make a gauge transformation\nto a new set of states that differ from the original ones only by an formula_2-dependent phase factor. This modifies the open-path Berry phase to be formula_17. For a closed path, continuity requires that formula_18 (formula_19 an integer), and it follows that formula_10 is invariant, modulo formula_21, under an arbitrary gauge transformation.\n\nThe closed-path Berry phase defined above can be expressed as\nwhere \nis a vector-valued function known as the Berry connection (or Berry potential). The Berry connection is gauge-dependent, transforming as\nformula_24. Hence the local Berry connection formula_25 can never be physically observable. However, its integral along a closed path, the Berry phase formula_10, is gauge-invariant up to an integer multiple of formula_21. Thus, formula_28 is absolutely gauge-invariant, and may be related to physical observables.\n\nThe Berry curvature is an anti-symmetric second-rank tensor derived from the Berry connection via\nIn a three-dimensional parameter space the Berry curvature can be written in the pseudovector form\nThe tensor and pseudovector forms of the Berry curvature are related to each other through the Levi-Civita antisymmetric tensor as\nformula_31. In contrast to the Berry connection, which is physical only after integrating around a closed path, the Berry curvature is a gauge-invariant local manifestation of the geometric properties of the wavefunctions in the parameter space, and has proven to be an essential physical ingredient for understanding a variety of electronic properties.\n\nFor a closed path formula_12 that forms the boundary of a surface formula_33, the closed-path Berry phase can be rewritten using Stokes' theorem as\nIf the surface is a closed manifold, the boundary term vanishes, but the indeterminacy of the boundary term modulo formula_21 manifests itself in the Chern theorem, which states that the integral of the Berry curvature over a closed manifold is quantized in units of formula_21. This number is the so-called Chern number, and is essential for understanding various quantization effects.\n\nFinally, note that the Berry curvature can also be written as a sum over all other eigenstates in the form\n\nThe Hamiltonian of a spin-1/2 particle in a magnetic field can be written as\nwhere formula_39 denote the Pauli matrices, formula_40 is the magnetic moment, and B is the magnetic field. In three dimensions, the eigenstates have energies formula_41 and their eigenvectors are\nNow consider the formula_43 state. Its Berry connection can be computed as\nformula_44\nformula_45,\nand the Berry curvature is\nformula_46\nIf we choose a new gauge by multiplying formula_43 by formula_48, the Berry connections are\nformula_49 and formula_50, while the Berry curvature remains the same. This is consistent with the conclusion that the Berry connection is gauge-dependent while the Berry curvature is not.\n\nThe Berry curvature per solid angle is given by formula_51. In this case, the Berry phase corresponding to any given path on the unit sphere formula_52 in magnetic-field space is just half the solid angle subtended by the path.\nThe integral of the Berry curvature over the whole sphere is therefore exactly formula_21, so that the Chern number is unity, consistent with the Chern theorem.\n\nThe Berry phase plays an important role in modern investigations of electronic properties in crystalline solids and in the theory of the quantum Hall effect.\nThe periodicity of the crystalline potential allows the application of the Bloch theorem, which states that the Hamiltonian eigenstates take the form\nwhere formula_4 is a band index, formula_56 is a wavevector in the reciprocal-space (Brillouin zone), and formula_57 is a periodic function of formula_58. Then, letting formula_56 play the role of the parameter formula_2, one can define Berry phases, connections, and curvatures in the reciprocal space. For example, the Berry connection in reciprocal space is\nBecause the Bloch theorem also implies that the reciprocal space itself is closed, with the Brillouin zone having the topology of a 3-torus in three dimensions, the requirements of integrating over a closed loop or manifold can easily be satisfied. In this way, such properties as the electric polarization, orbital magnetization, anomalous Hall conductivity, and orbital magnetoelectric coupling can be expressed in terms of Berry phases, connections, and curvatures.\n\n"}
{"id": "756263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756263", "title": "Bluestone", "text": "Bluestone\n\nBluestone is a cultural or commercial name for a number of dimension or building stone varieties, including:\n\n\nThe term \"bluestone\" in Britain is used in a loose sense to cover all of the \"foreign\" stones at Stonehenge. It is a \"convenience\" label rather than a geological term, since at least 20 different rock types are represented. One of the most common rocks in the assemblage is known as Preseli Spotted Dolerite—a chemically altered igneous rock containing spots or clusters of secondary minerals replacing plagioclase feldspar. It is a medium grained dark and heavy rock, harder than granite. Preseli bluestone tools, such as axes, have been discovered elsewhere within the British Isles. Many of them appear to have been made in or near Stonehenge, since there are petrographic similarities with some of the spotted dolerites there.\nThe bluestones at Stonehenge were placed there during the third phase of construction at Stonehenge around 2300 BC. It is assumed that there were about 80 of them originally, but this has never been proven since only 43 remain. The stones are estimated to weigh between 2 and 4 tons each. The majority of them are believed to have been brought from the Preseli Hills, about 250 kilometres (150 miles) away in Wales, either through glaciation (glacial erratic theory) or through humans organizing their transportation. If a glacier transported the stones, then it must have been the Irish Sea Glacier. In such event, one might expect to find other bluestone boulders or slabs near the Stonehenge site, but no such bluestones (apart from fragments) have been found.\n\nThe archaeological find of the Boscombe Bowmen has been cited in support of the human transport theory, while new glacier modelling supports the erratic theory. Preseli Bluestone dolerite axe heads have been found around the Preseli Hills as well, indicating that there was a population who knew how to work with the stones, but researchers reporting in 2015 found no firm evidence of quarrying at Rhosyfelin in the Preselis.\n\nA summary of the major aspects of the Stonehenge \"bluestone conundrum\" was published in 2008. In the same year a book devoted specifically to the problem of bluestone provenance and transport concluded that the Stonehenge bluestones are essentially an ill-sorted assemblage of glacial erratics. Further research into the origin of the bluestones was published in 2012.\n\nIn 2015, researchers reported they had confirmed the Preseli Spotted Dolerite stones at Stonehenge came from two Neolithic quarries at Carn Goedog and Craig Rhos-y-felin in the Preseli Hills. Using radiocarbon dating, researchers dated the quarry activities to around 3400 BC for Craig Rhos-y-felin and 3200 BC for Carn Goedog. Project director Mike Parker Pearson of the UCL Institute of Archaeology noted the finding was \"intriguing because the bluestones didn't get put up at Stonehenge until around 2900 BC… It could have taken those Neolithic stone-draggers nearly 500 years to get them to Stonehenge, but that's pretty improbable in my view. It's more likely that the stones were first used in a local monument, somewhere near the quarries, that was then dismantled and dragged off to Wiltshire.\"\n\nThere are three distinct building materials called \"bluestone\" in Australia.\n\nIn Victoria, what is known as bluestone is a basalt or olivine basalt. It was one of the favoured building materials during the Victorian Gold Rush period of the 1850s. In Melbourne it was extracted from quarries throughout the inner northern suburbs, such as Clifton Hill, Brunswick and Coburg, where the quarry used to source the stone for Pentridge Prison is now Coburg Lake. \nBluestone was also sourced in many other regions of the Victorian volcanic plains, and used in towns and cities of central and western regions, including Ballarat, Geelong, Kyneton, Port Fairy and Portland. It is still quarried at a number of places around the state.\n\nBluestone is very hard and therefore difficult to work, so it was predominantly used for warehouses, miscellaneous walls, and the foundations of buildings. However, a number of significant bluestone buildings exist, including the Old Melbourne Gaol, Pentridge Prison, St Patrick's Cathedral, Victoria Barracks, Melbourne Grammar School, Deaf Children Australia and Victorian College for the Deaf, Vision Australia, the Goldsbrough Mort warehouses (Bourke Street) and the Timeball Tower, as well as St Mary's Basilica in Geelong. Some examples of other major structures that use bluestone include Princes Bridge, the adjacent Federation Wharf, and Hawthorn Bridge. Because of its distinctive qualities, post-modern Melbourne buildings have also made use of bluestone for nostalgic reasons. These include the Southgate complex and promenade in Southbank, Victoria, and apartment buildings such as the \"Melburnian\".\n\nBluestone was also used extensively as cobblestone, and for kerbs and gutters, many examples which still exist in some of Melbourne's smaller city lanes and 19th Century inner suburban lanes. Crushed bluestone aggregate, known as \"blue metal\" (or \"bluemetal\"), is still used extensively in Victoria as railway ballast, road base, and, combined with bitumen, as road surfacing material, as well as in concrete making.\n\nIn South Australia, the name bluestone is given to a form of slate which is much less durable than Victorian bluestone, but was valued for its decorative appearance. The interior of the stone is usually pale grey or beige in colour, but is given attractively coloured surfaces by ferric oxide and other minerals deposited in joints and bedding planes. The slate is laid in masonry with the mineralised surfaces exposed. Bluestone was most popular from about the 1850s to the 1920s, quarried in the Adelaide Hills at Dry Creek, O'Halloran Hill (formerly Tapley's Hill) and Glen Osmond, and a number of other places in rural areas.\n\nIn Tasmania, the name bluestone is given to dolerite (diabase), which is a dominant stone variety in the landscape, and used in a variety of building roles.\n\nTimaru bluestone is an attractive building material, used both historically and to the present. It is a grey basalt similar to Victorian bluestone, quarried near Timaru in the South Island. Bluestone from near Kokonga in Central Otago is also widely used, and is the main construction material (often with facing of Oamaru stone, a local compact limestone) in many of the notable historic buildings in the southern South Island, most of which were constructed during the financial boom following the Central Otago gold rush.\n\nProminent structures to use this combination include Otago University Registry Building, Dunedin Law Courts, and Dunedin Railway Station. Similar construction using Timaru bluestone was used for Christchurch Arts Centre.\n\nThe best known American variety of bluestone is a feldspathic sandstone, which is produced in hundreds of small quarries in adjacent areas of Pennsylvania and New York. It is also quarried in the Canadian Appalachians near Deer Lake in Western Newfoundland. The Pennsylvania Bluestone Association has 105 members, the vast majority of them quarriers. The other, lesser known, type of American bluestone is formed from a different sedimentary rock, limestone. The limestone is abundant in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia yet The Frazier Quarry is the only remaining quarry that cuts dimension stone from it.\n\nBluestone from Pennsylvania and New York is commercially known as bluestone or Pennsylvania Bluestone. These are a group of sandstones defined as feldspathic greywacke. The sand-sized grains from which bluestone is constituted were deposited in the Catskill Delta during the Middle to Upper Devonian Period of the Paleozoic Era, approximately 370 to 345 million years ago. If the initial deposit was made under slow moving water the ripples of the water action on the sand or mud will be revealed. This deposition process may be seen today at any ocean beach in shallow water or in a stream bed where conditions allow it to be observed. The term \"bluestone\" is derived from a deep-blue-colored sandstone first found in Ulster County, New York.\n\nThe Catskill Delta was created from run off from the Acadian Mountains (\"Ancestral Appalachians\") which covered the area where New York City now exists. This Delta ran in a narrow band from southwest to northeast and today provides the base material for the high-quality bluestone which is quarried from the Catskill Mountains and Northeast Pennsylvania.\n\nAs the product became more popular as an architectural and building stone and demand grew, quarrying for it spread throughout south central New York and northeast Pennsylvania. It is a unique commodity of particular value to the economy of Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania. The Starrucca Viaduct, finished in 1848, is often referred to as an example of the strength and durability of Pennsylvania Bluestone as a building material.\n\nBluestone from the Shenandoah Valley is regionally known as bluestone but a less ambiguous name is Shenandoah Valley Bluestone. The limestone formed during the Ordovician Period approximately 450 to 500 million years ago, but it was formed at the bottom of a relatively shallow ocean that then covered what is today Rockingham County, Virginia. However, the limestone that accumulated in Rockingham County was darker in color than most other limestone deposits because it was in deeper waters exposed to less light. The darker blue color resulted in limestone from this region to be dubbed bluestone and with two sequences measuring about 10,000 ft, it gives the area one of the largest limestone deposits in the world. The stone eventually fades from a deep blue to a light grey after prolonged exposure to the sun and rain.\n\nGiven the abundance of the stone in the Rockingham County area, the first settlers used it as foundations and chimneys for their houses. When James Madison University was built, the native bluestone was used to construct the buildings because of its high quality and cultural ties. The Frazier Quarry in Harrisonburg, Virginia Continues to supply JMU with the native bluestone.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54427200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54427200", "title": "Body contact (electricity)", "text": "Body contact (electricity)\n\nA body contact or body fault is a conductive connection between body and active parts of electrical equipment resulting from a fault.\n\nA body, short or ground fault is:\n\nIf there is no fault resistance in the circuit\nIf a fault resistance is present in the circuit (e.g. wet branch, arc)\n\nThis can be caused by installation errors or defects, such as cable breaks.\n\nThere is a risk of electric shock when touching the parts of the system under voltage by the body joint. As a countermeasure, so-called protective conductors and residual current circuit breakers are used in electrical engineering.\n\n"}
{"id": "38017421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38017421", "title": "Bounding point", "text": "Bounding point\n\nIn functional analysis, a branch of mathematics, a bounding point of a subset of vector space is a conceptual extension of the boundary of the set.\n\nLet formula_1 for some vector space formula_2. Then formula_3 is a \"bounding point\" for formula_4 if it is neither an internal point for formula_4 nor its complement.\n"}
{"id": "8943966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8943966", "title": "Calendic acid", "text": "Calendic acid\n\nCalendic acid (sometimes α-calendic acid) is an unsaturated fatty acid, named for the pot marigold (\"Calendula officinalis\"), from which it is obtained. It is chemically similar to the conjugated linoleic acids; laboratory work suggests it may have similar \"in vitro\" bioactivities.\n\nCalendic acid is an omega-6 fatty acid. though not usually listed with this group. Calendic acid is synthesised in \"Calendula officinalis\" from linoleate by an unusual Δ12-oleate desaturase (a FAD 2 variant) that converts the \"cis\"-double bond at position 9 to a \"trans\",\"trans\"-conjugated double bond system. An \"all-trans\" beta isomer has been described.\n\nCalendic acid is the fatty acid responsible for the reduction in feed intake and improved feed utilization in mice when calendula oil is added to the feedstuff, as demonstrated by the comparative experiments in the examples using corn oil.\n"}
{"id": "12390908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12390908", "title": "Carbon emission label", "text": "Carbon emission label\n\nA carbon emission label or carbon label describes the carbon dioxide emissions created as a by-product of manufacturing, transporting, or disposing of a consumer product. This information is important to consumers wishing to minimize their ecological footprint and contribution to global warming made by their purchases.\n\nThe world's first carbon label, the Carbon Reduction Label, shows the carbon footprint embodied in a product and was first introduced in the UK in 2006 by the Carbon Trust. Examples of products featuring their carbon footprint are Walkers Crisps, Kingsmill bread, British Sugar, Cemex cement, Marshalls paving and Quaker Oats, which have all used the label. One of the biggest supporters of carbon labelling is Tesco, who have labelled a range of products including washing detergent, light bulbs, oranges, milk and toilet paper. HBOS feature it on their online bank account.\n\nThe Carbon Trust label also requires companies to commit to reduce the embodied carbon in the labeled product or they lose the right to feature the label. An independent panel is currently verifying the process alongside Defra and the British Standards Institute BSI and a new standard PAS 2050 is due to be introduced in mid-2008. As of August 2009, Defra is undertaking a radical rethink of the food industry on issues of security and sustainability, among many things proposing a green labelling scheme for food products.\n\nThe CarbonCounted label started in January 2007. It uses a live carbon supply chain to determine the amount of carbon dioxide emitted to bring a product to market. This third party certified system, based on an open standard, eliminates the need for heavy auditing and guess work associated with values determined when using isolated accounting methods. This also addresses how to consistently and fairly apply the smaller details such as the heating, cooling, lighting etc. in the shops the products are sold in.\n\nAnother label initiative started in spring 2008 in Switzerland. The independent association climatop labels the most climate friendly products with their label «approved by climatop». In contrast to the label of Carbon Trust, this label does not indicate the carbon footprint of a specific product, it labels those products out of a comparable group of products with a remarkably lower carbon charge. As a rule of thumb, products have to be at least 20% better as other products from the same category. Therefore life cycle assessments or the products are calculated by independent offices, and the calculations are reviewed by a third party. Beside the fact that it has to be proven that those products have a lower climate charge, the products also have to fulfil several environmental and social standards. Examples of labeled products can be found at the Swiss retailer Migros, such as an organic fair trade sugar from Paraguay, recycling kitchen towels or laundry detergents. This approach has been shown to influence customer purchasing decisions.\n\nJapan announced carbon footprint labelling scheme in 2008. The labels appeared on dozens of items including food and drink starting in April 2009, providing detailed breakdowns of each product's carbon footprint under a government-approved calculation and labeling system.\n\nCalifornia state representative Ira Ruskin sponsored a carbon labeling bill—the Carbon Labeling Act of 2009—in the California state legislature, which has been voted out of the Assembly Committee on Natural Resources. The act would require the State Air Resources Board to develop and implement a program for the voluntary assessment, verification, and standardized labeling of the\ncarbon footprint of consumer products sold in the state.\n\nIn July 2009, Walmart announced an environmental labeling program for its products. The intent is to create over the next five years a universal rating system, that scores products based on how environmentally and socially sustainable they are over the course of their lives. Wal-Mart’s goal is to have other retailers eventually adopt the indexing system.\n\nIn the United States, the Clean Energy Standard (CES) mandates that electric utilities generate a certain percentage of their power from clean energy sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24586740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24586740", "title": "Città dell'arte Fashion: Bio Ethical Sustainable Trend", "text": "Città dell'arte Fashion: Bio Ethical Sustainable Trend\n\nCittà dell'arte Fashion: Bio Ethical Sustainable Trend is an initiative of the \"Fondazione Pistoletto\" (Pistoletto Foundation) to promote sustainability in the fashion industry. It was unveiled by Vogue Italia editor-in-chief Franca Sozzani and the artist Michelangelo Pistoletto at a press conference at Pistoletto's studio in Biella on September 22, 2009. From September 23, 2009 through February 2010, the participants are committed to providing a new model for sustainable practices in fashion.\n\nThe purpose of Città dell'arte Fashion: Bio Ethical Sustainable Trend is to encourage and find ways for the fashion industry to exemplify a new model of socially responsible, ethical, and sustainable fashion. Michelangelo Pistoletto invited eleven Italian designers to create one look from sustainable Italian textiles. In June 2009, a two-day workshop at Pistoletto's studio assisted the designers' in selecting organically dyed yarns for the project, which will culminate in February 2010.\n\nThese are just a handful of the companies who sponsor this initiative:\n\nZegna chairman Paolo Zegna is just one of many people who pay for the organically dyed fabrics and yarns for the project.\n\nParticipating designers include:\n\n"}
{"id": "18176668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18176668", "title": "Coronal seismology", "text": "Coronal seismology\n\nCoronal seismology is a technique of studying the plasma of the Sun's corona with the use of magnetohydrodynamic (MHD) waves and oscillations. Magnetohydrodynamics studies the dynamics of electrically conducting fluids - in this case the fluid is the coronal plasma. Observed properties of the waves (e.g. period, wavelength, amplitude, temporal and spatial signatures (what is the shape of the wave perturbation?), characteristic scenarios of the wave evolution (is the wave damped?), combined with a theoretical modelling of the wave phenomena (dispersion relations, evolutionary equations, etc.), may reflect physical parameters of the corona which are not accessible \"in situ,\" such as the coronal magnetic field strength and Alfvén velocity \nPhilosophically, coronal seismology is similar to the Earth's seismology, helioseismology, and MHD spectroscopy of laboratory plasma devices. In all these approaches, waves of various kind are used to probe a medium. \n\nThe theoretical foundation of coronal seismology is the dispersion relation of MHD modes of a plasma cylinder: a plasma structure which is nonuniform in the transverse direction and extended along the magnetic field. This model works well for the description of a number of plasma structures observed in the solar corona: e.g. coronal loops, prominence fibrils, plumes, various filaments. Such a structure acts as a waveguide of MHD waves.\n\nThis discussion is adapted from Nakariakov & Verwichte (2009).\n\nThere are several distinct kinds of MHD modes which have quite different dispersive, polarisation, and propagation properties:\n\n\nFor kink modes the parameter the azimuthal wave number in a cylindrical model of a loop, formula_2 is equal to 1, meaning that the cylinder is swaying with fixed ends.\n\n\nFor sausage modes the parameter formula_2 is equal to 0; this would be interpreted as a \"breathing\" in and out, again with fixed endpoints.\n\n\nWhere we define formula_6 as the sound speed and formula_7 as the Alfvén velocity.\n\n\nWave and oscillatory phenomena are observed in the hot plasma of the corona mainly in EUV, optical and microwave bands with a number of spaceborne and ground-based instruments, e.g. the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO), the Transition Region and Coronal Explorer (TRACE), the Nobeyama Radioheliograph (NoRH, see the Nobeyama radio observatory). Phenomenologically, researchers distinguish between compressible waves in polar plumes and in legs of large coronal loops, flare-generated transverse oscillations of loops, acoustic oscillations of loops, propagating kink waves in loops and in structures above arcades (an arcade being a close collection of loops in a cylindrical structure, see image to right), sausage oscillations of flaring loops, and oscillations of prominences and fibrils (see solar prominence), and this list is continuously updated.\n\nCoronal seismology is one of the aims of the Atmospheric Imaging Assembly (AIA) instrument on the Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO) mission.\n\nA mission to send a spacecraft as close as 9 solar radii from the sun, Parker Solar Probe, is planned for launch in 2015 and aims to provide in-situ measurements of the solar magnetic field, solar wind and corona. It should include a magnetometer and plasma wave sensor, allowing unprecedented observations for coronal seismology.\n\nThe potential of coronal seismology in the estimation of the coronal magnetic field, density scale height, \"fine structure\" (by which is meant the variation in structure of an inhomogeneous structure such as an inhomogeneous coronal loop) and heating has been demonstrated by different research groups. Work relating to the coronal magnetic field was mentioned earlier.\nIt has been shown that sufficiently broadband slow magnetoacoustic waves, consistent with currently available observations in the low frequency part of the spectrum, could provide the rate of heat deposition sufficient to heat a coronal loop.\n\n"}
{"id": "229619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=229619", "title": "Effusion", "text": "Effusion\n\nIn physics and chemistry, effusion is the process in which a gas escapes from a container through a hole of diameter considerably smaller than the mean free path of the molecules. Such a hole is often described as a \"pinhole\" and the escape of the gas is due to the pressure difference between the container and the exterior. Under these conditions, essentially all molecules which arrive at the hole continue and pass through the hole, since collisions between molecules in the region of the hole are negligible. Conversely, when the diameter is larger than the mean free path of the gas, flow obeys the Sampson flow law.\n\nIn medical terminology, an effusion refers to accumulation of fluid in an anatomic space, usually without loculation. Specific examples include subdural, mastoid, pericardial and pleural effusions. \n\nBy the kinetic theory of gases, the kinetic energy for a gas at a temperature formula_1,\n\nwhere formula_3 is the mass of one molecule, formula_4 is the root-mean-square speed of the molecules and formula_5 is the Boltzmann constant. The average molecular speed can be calculated from the Maxwell speed distribution\nas 0.921 formula_4 (or formula_4 = 1.085 ). The rate at which a gas of molar mass M effuses (typically expressed as the \"number\" of molecules passing through the hole per second) is then\n\nHere ΔP is the gas pressure difference across the barrier, A is the area of the hole, N\" is Avogadro's number, R is the gas constant and T\" is the absolute temperature. Assuming the pressure difference between the two sides of the barrier is much smaller than formula_9, the average absolute pressure in the system (\"i.e.\" formula_10), it is possible to express effusion flow as a volumetric flow rate as follows:\n\nor\n\nWhere formula_13 is the volumetric flow rate of the gas, formula_9 is the average pressure on either side of the orifice, and formula_15 is the hole diameter.\n\nAt constant pressure and temperature, the root-mean-square speed and therefore the effusion rate are inversely proportional to the square root of the molecular weight. Gases with a lower molecular weight effuse more rapidly than gases with a higher molecular weight, so that the \"number\" of lighter molecules passing through the hole per unit time is greater. This is why a balloon filled with low molecular weight helium (\"M\" = 4) deflates faster than an equivalent balloon full of higher molecular weight oxygen (\"M\" = 32). However the total \"mass\" of the escaping molecules is directly proportional to the square root of the molecular weight and is less for lighter molecules.\n\nScottish chemist Thomas Graham (1805–1869) found experimentally that the rate of effusion of a gas is inversely proportional to the square root of the mass of its particles. In other words, the ratio of the rates of effusion of two gases at the same temperature and pressure is given by the inverse ratio of the square roots of the masses of the gas particles.\n\nwhere formula_17 and formula_18 represent the molar masses of the gases. \nThis equation is known as Graham's law of effusion.\n\nThe effusion rate for a gas depends directly on the average velocity of its particles. Thus, the faster the gas particles are moving, the more likely they are to pass through the effusion orifice.\n\nThe Knudsen effusion cell is used to measure the vapor pressures of a solid with very low vapor pressure. Such a solid forms a vapor at low pressure by sublimation. The vapor slowly effuses through a pinhole, and the loss of mass is proportional to the vapor pressure and can be used to determine this pressure. The heat of sublimation can also be determined by measuring the vapor pressure as a function of temperature, using the Clausius–Clapeyron relation.\n"}
{"id": "22379986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22379986", "title": "Element collecting", "text": "Element collecting\n\nElement collecting is the hobby of collecting the chemical elements. Many element collectors simply enjoy finding peculiar uses of chemical elements. Others enjoy studying the properties of the elements, possibly engaging in amateur chemistry, and some simply collect elements for no practical reason. Some element collectors invest in elements, while some amateur chemists have amassed a large collection of elements—Oliver Sacks, for example. In recent years, the hobby has gained popularity with media attention brought by element collectors like Theodore Gray.\n\nSome collectors attempt to collect very high purity samples of each element. Others prefer to find the element in everyday use. Some are averse to collecting the element as a compound or alloy, while others find this acceptable. Collectors may isolate elements in their own homes. Hydrogen, for example, can be easily isolated via the electrolysis of water.\n\nIn addition to the element samples, some element collectors also collect items connected with the element, such as manufactured goods containing the element, rocks and minerals with the element as a constituent or compounds of the element. Some manufacturers also sell coins made from pure elements, and density cubes made from the pure element can also be sourced on auction sites such as eBay.\n\nSome commercial retailers now cater to the element collecting community, even selling large quantities in sets, since purchasing elements from large chemical companies like Sigma-Aldrich is frequently prohibited or uneconomical for individuals. There are a number of specialist element providers which retail to the public over the web, sell individual element samples in addition to full and partial element sets. Many also sell elements through auction sites, such as eBay. Established specialist providers include Nova Elements, RGB Elements, Smart Elements, Metallium, Collect the Periodic Table, Luciteria and Onyxmet.\n\nElement collecting presents many challenges: some elements, such as mercury, thallium, and arsenic are toxic and so are difficult to find or their sale is restricted. Others are extremely rare in commercial use, such as scandium, lutetium and thulium and are therefore hard to source or are comparatively expensive. Some, such as caesium and fluorine, are too reactive and have restrictions on their shipping; others, such as gallium, react corrosively and very fast with aluminium (e.g., as structural material in aircraft). Others, like radon and astatine are radioactive and have half-lifes too short for practical collection in addition to their radioactive hazards. Usually only the stable elements from hydrogen to bismuth (except the radioactive technetium and promethium) are collected, with the exceptions of the extremely long-lived thorium and uranium. It is possible to source other radioactive elements, such as radium (usually in the form of radium sulphate as part of luminescent paint on antique watch hands), tritium - a radioactive isotope of hydrogen, americium (in the form of radioactive buttons containing 0.29 micrograms of americium extracted from older smoke detectors), and technetium.\n\n"}
{"id": "201853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201853", "title": "Engine displacement", "text": "Engine displacement\n\nEngine displacement is the swept volume of all the pistons inside the cylinders of a reciprocating engine in a single movement from \"top dead centre\" (TDC) to \"bottom dead centre\" (BDC). It is commonly specified in cubic centimetres (\"cc\" or cm), litres (l), or cubic inches (CID). Engine displacement does not include the total volume of the combustion chamber.\n\nEngine displacement is determined from the bore and stroke of an engine's cylinders. The bore is the diameter of the circular chambers cut into the cylinder block.\nOr in decimal form:\nExamples: The 427 Chevy bore is 4.312 in, and the stroke is 3.65 in, therefore the displacement for this eight-cylinder engine is:\nor: \nIf the bore is 10 cm and the stroke is 5 cm with four cylinders, the calculation is:\n\nTaxation of automobiles is sometimes based on engine displacement, rather than power output, fuel economy, emissions, or vehicle weight. Displacement is a basic fundamental of engine design, whereas power output depends a great deal on other factors, particularly on how the car manufacturer has \"tuned\" the engine from new. This has encouraged the development of other methods to increase engine power, such as variable valve timing and turbochargers.\n\nThere are four major regulatory constraints for automobiles: the European, British, Japanese, and American. The method used in some European countries, and which predates the EU, has a level of taxation for engines over 1.0 litre, and another at the level of about 1.6 litres. The British system of taxation depends upon vehicle emissions for cars registered after 1 March 2001, but for cars registered before this date, it depends on engine size. Cars under 1549 cc qualify for a cheaper rate of tax.\n\nThe Japanese method is similar to the European taxation by classes of displacement, plus a vehicle weight tax.\n\nThe United States, Canada (except Québec), Australia, and New Zealand does not tax a vehicle based on the displacement of the engine. Engine displacement is important in determining whether or not smaller vehicles need to be registered with the state and whether or not a license is required to operate such a vehicle. A common threshold is 50 cc.\n\nIn the Netherlands road tax is based on region, weight, and fuel type (petrol / CNG, LPG, Diesel, or other (electric/hybrid/H2)) and in Sweden, road tax is based on vehicle weight. However, Swedish cars registered in 2008, or later, are taxed based on carbon dioxide emissions.\n\nDisplacement is also used to distinguish categories of (heavier) and lighter motorbikes with respect to driving licence and insurance requirements. In France and some other EU countries, mopeds of less than 50 cm displacement (and usually with a two-stroke engine), can be driven with minimum qualifications (previously, they could be driven by any person over 14). This led to all light motorbikes having a displacement of about 49.9 cm. Some people tuned the engine by increasing the cylinder bore, increasing displacement; such mopeds cannot be driven legally on public roads since they no longer conform to the original specifications and may go faster than 45 km/h.\n\nWankel engines, due to the amount of power and emissions they create for their displacement, are generally taxed as 1.5 times their stated physical displacement (1.3 litres becomes effectively 2.0, 2.0 becomes effectively 3.0), although actual power outputs are far greater (the 1.3-litre 13B can produce power comparable to either a 3.0 V6 engine or a turbocharged 2.0 inline-4 engine, and the 2.0-litre 20B can produce power comparable to a 3.5 to 3.8 V6 engine or a 4.0 V8 engine). As such, racing regulations actually use a much higher conversion factor.\n\nIn the automotive industry, engine displacement is frequently encoded in the auto manufacturer's model names. For instance, Nissan's Teana 350JM is a car with a displacement engine. Motorcycles are often labeled similarly.\n\nHowever, this nomenclature can be misleading. For instance, the BMW 3 Series (F30) 320i, 328i and 330i all have a 2.0-litre engine; the Mercedes-Benz C-Class (W205) C 200, C 250, C 300 and C 350 Plug-In Hybrid all have a 2.0-litre engine; and the Bugatti Veyron 16.4 has an 8.0-litre (quad-turbocharged W16) engine.\n\nLexus hybrid vehicles (\"h\") are marked higher than true engine size to signify the extra power from auxiliary systems. For example, the RX450h has a 3.5 L engine, and the LS600h has a 5.0 L engine.\n\n"}
{"id": "4408405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4408405", "title": "FKM", "text": "FKM\n\nFKM (by ASTM D1418 standard) (equivalent to FPM by ISO/DIN 1629 standard) is the designation for about 80% of fluoroelastomers as defined in ASTM D1418. All FKMs contain vinylidene fluoride as a monomer. Originally developed by DuPont (Viton), FKMs are today also produced by Daikin Chemical (Dai-El), 3M's Dyneon (Dyneon Fluoroelastomers), Solvay Specialty Polymers (Tecnoflon), HaloPolymer (Elaftor) and several Chinese manufacturers. Viton is now manufactured by Chemours. Fluoroelastomers are more expensive than neoprene or nitrile rubber elastomers. They provide additional heat and chemical resistance. FKMs can be divided into different classes on the basis of either their chemical composition, their fluorine content or their crosslinking mechanism.\n\nOn the basis of their chemical composition FKMs can be divided into the following types:\n\nA useful overview of different types of FKM-compounds is listed here.\n\nThere are three established crosslinking mechanisms used in the curing process of FKMs.\n\nOther Fluoroelastomers include :\n\n"}
{"id": "549787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549787", "title": "Fernico", "text": "Fernico\n\nFernico describe a family of metal alloys made primarily of iron, nickel and cobalt. The family includes Kovar, FerNiCo I, FerNiCo II, and Dumet. The name is made up of the chemical symbols of its constituent three elements. \"Dumet\" is a portmanteau of \"dual\" and \"metal,\" because it is a heterogeneous alloy, usually fabricated in the form of a wire with an alloy core and a copper cladding. These alloys possess the properties of electrical conductivity, minimal oxidation and formation of porous surfaces at working temperatures of glass and thermal coefficients of expansion which match glass closely. These requirements allow the alloys to be used in glass seals, such that the seal does not crack, fracture or leak with changes in temperature.\n\nDumet is most commonly used in seals where lead-in wires pass through the glass bulb wall of standard household electric lamps (light bulbs) among other things.\n\nThe two Fernico alloys both consist of iron (Fe), nickel (Ni), and cobalt (Co). Fernico is used at high temperatures and is identical to Kovar. Fernico II is used at cryogenic temperatures in the range. Both are used to create electrically conductive paths through the walls of sealed borosilicate glass containers. Dumet is used for a similar purpose, but is tailored for seals through soda lime and lead alkali silicate glasses.\n\nThese alloys adhere to lead-tin, tin, and silver solders. Other metals, including copper, molybdenum, nickel, and steel can be spot-welded to the FerNiCo alloys forming low resistance electrical connections.\n\nGiven in weight %\n\nFerNiCo I has the same linear coefficient of expansion as certain types of borosilicate (\"hard\" glass), (c6.5 × 10°K, thus serving as an ideal material for the lead-out wires or other seal structures in light bulbs and thermionic valves. Dumet is also used for this purpose, but for passing through softer soda-lime and lead-alkali glasses. This wire is often coated with a glass-like film of sodium metaborate, (), so the molten glass will \"wet\" and adhere to it. 25% by mass of the finished wire is copper. Cunife exhibits a similar property.\n\nThere are very few uses of Fernico. Some of them are: \n"}
{"id": "7196964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7196964", "title": "Functionally graded material", "text": "Functionally graded material\n\nIn materials science Functionally Graded Materials (FGMs) may be characterized by the variation in composition and structure gradually over volume, resulting in corresponding changes in the properties of the material. The materials can be designed for specific function and applications. Various approaches based on the bulk (particulate processing), preform processing, layer processing and melt processing are used to fabricate the functionally graded materials.\n\nThe concept of FGM was first considered in Japan in 1984 during a space plane project. Where a combination of materials used would serve the purpose of a thermal barrier capable of withstanding a surface temperature of 2000 K and a temperature gradient of 1000 k across a 10 mm section. In recent years this concept has become more popular in Europe, particularly in Germany. A transregional collaborative research center (SFB Transregio) is funded since 2006 in order to exploit the potential of grading monomaterials, such as steel, aluminium and polypropylen, by using thermomechanically coupled manufacturing processes.\n\nThe basic structural units of FGMs are elements or material ingredients represented by \"maxel\". The term maxel was introduced in 2005 by Rajeev Dwivedi and Radovan Kovacevic at Research Center for Advanced Manufacturing (RCAM). The attributes of maxel include the location and volume fraction of individual material components.\n\nA maxel is also used in the context of the additive manufacturing processes (such as stereolithography, selective laser sintering, fused deposition modeling, etc.) to describe a physical voxel (a portmanteau of the words 'volume' and 'element'), which defines the build resolution of either a rapid prototyping or rapid manufacturing process, or the resolution of a design produced by such fabrication means.\n\nThere are many areas of application for FGM. The concept is to make a composite material by varying the microstructure from one material to another material with a specific gradient. This enables the material to have the best of both materials. If it is for thermal, or corrosive resistance or malleability and toughness both strengths of the material may be used to avoid corrosion, fatigue, fracture and stress corrosion cracking.\n\nThe transition between the two materials can usually be approximated by means of a power series.\nThe aircraft and aerospace industry and the computer circuit industry are very interested in the possibility of materials that can withstand very high thermal gradients. This is normally achieved by using a ceramic layer connected with a metallic layer.\n\nThe Air Vehicles Directorate has conducted a Quasi-static bending test results of functionally graded titanium/titanium boride test specimens which can be seen below. The test correlated to the finite element analysis (FEA) using a quadrilateral mesh with each element having its own structural and thermal properties.\n\nAdvanced Materials and Processes Strategic Research Programme (AMPSRA) have done analysis on producing a thermal barrier coating using Zr02 and NiCoCrAlY. Their results have proved successful but no results of the analytical model are published.\n\nThe rendition of the term that relates to the additive fabrication processes has its origins at the RMRG (Rapid Manufacturing Research Group) at Loughborough University in the United Kingdom. The term forms a part of a descriptive taxonomy of terms relating directly to various particulars relating to the additive CAD-CAM manufacturing processes, originally established as a part of the research conducted by architect Thomas Modeen into the application of the aforementioned \ntechniques in the context of architecture.\n\nGradient of elastic modulus essentially changes the fracture toughness of adhesive contacts.\n\nNumerical methods have been developed for modelling the mechanical response of FGMs, with the finite element method being the most popular one. Initially, the variation of material properties was introduced by means of rows (or columns) of homogeneous elements, leading to a discontinuous step-type variation in the mechanical properties . Later, Santare and Lambros developed functionally graded finite elements, where the mechanical property variation takes place at the element level. Martínez-Pañeda and Gallego extended this approach to commercial finite element software . Contact properties of FGH can be simulated using the Boundary Element Method (which can be applied both to non-adhesive and adhesive contacts).\n"}
{"id": "40617117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40617117", "title": "Gas separation", "text": "Gas separation\n\nGas separation can refer to any of a number of techniques used to separate gases, either to give multiple products or to purify a single product.\n\nPressure swing adsorption (PSA) pressurizes and depressurizes gas around an adsorbent media to selectively adsorb certain components of a gas, allowing others to be selectively discarded.\n\nVacuum swing adsorption (VSA) uses the same principle as PSA but swings between vacuum pressures and atmospheric pressure. The two techniques may be combined and are called \"vacuum pressure swing adsorption\" (VPSA) in this case.\n\nTemperature swing adsorption (TSA) uses a similar technique to other swing adsorption techniques but cycles temperature instead of pressure.\n\nCryogenic distillation is typically only used for very high volumes because of its nonlinear cost-scale relationship, which makes the process more economical at larger scales. Because of this it is typically only used for air separation.\n\nMembrane technologies are not as well developed as other gas separation techniques and as a result they are less widely used. Manufacturing challenges mean the units are better suited for small to mid scale operations.\n\nThe use partially permeable membranes which allow \"fast\" gases to pass through and be removed, while \"slow\" gases remain in the airstream and emerge without the original contaminants. Membrane technology is most often used for moisture removal, hydrogen removal and nitrogen enrichment.\n\n"}
{"id": "24301601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24301601", "title": "Gebran Bassil", "text": "Gebran Bassil\n\nGebran Gerge Bassil (; born 21 June 1970) is a Lebanese politician, and as of 20 September 2015, the leader of the Free Patriotic Movement. \n\nBassil was born in a Maronite Christian family. Bassil received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in civil engineering from the American University of Beirut in 1992 and 1993 respectively.\nHe was a member of a number of associations: the Lebanese Red Cross and Rotary Club of Batroun, Lebanon.\n\nBetween the years of 1998 and 2005, Gebran Bassil was an activist for various positions in the Free Patriotic Movement in Lebanon. In 2005, he became a candidate in the general elections in the district of Batroun. He didn't succeed at getting elected. From 2005 to 2008, Bassil became the head of the Free Patriotic Movement. \n\nHe served as the Minister of telecommunications in the Lebanese cabinet led by Fouad Siniora from May 2008 to June 2009, and then as the minister of energy in the cabinet headed by Saad Hariri Bassil lost the general elections held in 2009. \n\nHe has been serving as the Minister of Energy and Water in the cabinet headed by Najib Mikati since June 2011, and assumed the role of Minister of Foreign Affairs and Emigrants as of February 2014. In the general election of 2018, Bassil was elected as an Member of Parliament (MP) for the Batroun-Koura-Zgharta-Bsharri electoral district.\n\nOn 12 January 2011, the government collapsed after Bassil announced that all ten opposition ministers had resigned following months of warnings by Hezbollah that it would not remain inactive should there be indictments against the group. The New York Times suggested the resignations came after the collapse of talks between Syria and Saudi Arabia to ease tensions in Lebanon.\n\nLebanon's president Aoun and some Lebanese officials including Bassil believed that the abrupt resignation of Prime Minister Saad Hariri was made under coercion by Saudis and have claimed that the Saudis have kept him hostage.\n\nThis led Bassil to visit multiple European countries and meet with senior EU leaders to rally diplomatic support for Lebanon and it's stability. During his European tour, he met with High Representative/Vice-President of the European Union Federica Mogherini in Brussels, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Minister of Foreign Affairs Mevlüt Çavuşoğlu, German FM Sigmar Gabriel, Russian FM Sergei Lavrov and French President Emmanuel Macron.\n\nBassil and his wife Chantal Michel Aoun have three children. His father in law is the current Lebanese president (since 31 October 2016) and the former leader and the founder of the Free Patriotic Movement, Michel Aoun.\n\nIn a meeting with FPM supporters in Batroun district, Bassil accused Speaker of the Parliament Nabih Berri of seeking to derail a diaspora conference organized by the Foreign Ministry in Abidjan by forcing Shiite businessmen to boycott the gathering. Bassil accused Berri of threatening to have Shiite businessmen participating in the conference fired from their jobs and the bank funding the diaspora gathering closed.\n\nBassil’s comments were revealed in a leaked video which was broadcast by Al Jadeed local TV station. The video sparked an outcry on social media with Finance Minister Ali Hassan Khalil, Berri's top political aide, blasting Bassil for crossing a red line and describing him as a \"political dwarf\" with sectarian motives. The leaked video also triggered a wave of street protests by the Berri's supporters, who responded by blocking a number of Beirut’s major roads and vital arteries with burning tires.\n\nBassil’s “thug” remark was the tip of the iceberg of long-simmering tension between the FPM and the Amal Movement that started with a decree that sought to promote a number of Army officers who has served under Aoun in the late 1980s when he was Army commander.\n\nBassil was criticized by many Lebanese politicians after an interview in December 2017 with Al-Mayadeen in which he stated that Lebanon does not have an ideological problem with Israel. \n\nHe also said in that interview that he was not against Israel \"living in security\".\n\n"}
{"id": "3448545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3448545", "title": "Granite State Electric Company", "text": "Granite State Electric Company\n\nGranite State Electric Company is a regulated company that provides electricity in parts of the American state of New Hampshire. Since 2012, it has been owned by Liberty Utilities. The company is headquartered in Salem, New Hampshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "26732976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26732976", "title": "Hirono Power Station", "text": "Hirono Power Station\n\nThe plant has an installed capacity of 4,400 MW. Power is generated by three 600 MW units, and two 1,000 MW units. Units 1 to 4 run on fuel oil and crude oil, whereas unit 5 (600 MW) runs on coal. A new 600 MW coal-fired unit, Unit 6, commenced commercial operation in December, 2013.\n\nThe power plant located directly at the Pacific Ocean was damaged by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami. Tepco managed to return the first block to operation in July 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "31064178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31064178", "title": "Husavik Power station", "text": "Husavik Power station\n\nHusavik Power Station is a geothermal power station in Húsavík, Iceland. It has a rated capacity of 2 MW. The plant was built by Mannvit Engineering in cooperation with Exorka International. It uses the Kalina power cycle technology and was commissioned in 2000. The geothermal brine flows from wells located south of Husavík.\n"}
{"id": "210000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210000", "title": "Ionic compound", "text": "Ionic compound\n\nIn chemistry, an ionic compound is a chemical compound composed of ions held together by electrostatic forces termed ionic bonding. The compound is neutral overall, but consists of positively charged ions called cations and negatively charged ions called anions. These can be simple ions such as the sodium (Na) and chloride (Cl) in sodium chloride, or polyatomic species such as the ammonium () and carbonate () ions in ammonium carbonate. Individual ions within an ionic compound usually have multiple nearest neighbours, so are not considered to be part of molecules, but instead part of a continuous three-dimensional network, usually in a crystalline structure.\n\nIonic compounds containing hydrogen ions (H) are classified as acids, and those containing basic ions hydroxide (OH) or oxide (O) are classified as bases. Ionic compounds without these ions are also known as salts and can be formed by acid–base reactions. Ionic compounds can also be produced from their constituent ions by evaporation of their solvent, precipitation, freezing, a solid-state reaction, or the electron transfer reaction of reactive metals with reactive non-metals, such as halogen gases.\n\nIonic compounds typically have high melting and boiling points, and are hard and brittle. As solids they are almost always electrically insulating, but when melted or dissolved they become highly conductive, because the ions are mobilized.\n\nThe word \"ion\" is the Greek , \"ion\", \"going\", the present participle of , \"ienai\", \"to go\". This term was introduced by English physicist and chemist Michael Faraday in 1834 for the then-unknown species that \"goes\" from one electrode to the other through an aqueous medium.\nIn 1913 the crystal structure of sodium chloride was determined by William Henry Bragg and William Lawrence Bragg. This revealed that there were six equidistant nearest-neighbours for each atom, demonstrating that the constituents were not arranged in molecules or finite aggregates, but instead as a network with long-range crystalline order. Many other inorganic compounds were also found to have similar structural features. These compounds were soon described as being constituted of ions rather than neutral atoms, but proof of this hypothesis was not found until the mid-1920s, when X-ray reflection experiments (which detect the density of electrons), were performed.\n\nPrincipal contributors to the development of a theoretical treatment of ionic crystal structures were Max Born, Fritz Haber, Alfred Landé, Erwin Madelung, Paul Peter Ewald, and Kazimierz Fajans. Born predicted crystal energies based on the assumption of ionic constituents, which showed good correspondence to thermochemical measurements, further supporting the assumption.\n\nIonic compounds can be produced from their constituent ions by evaporation, precipitation, or freezing. Reactive metals such as the alkali metals can react directly with the highly electronegative halogen gases to form an ionic product. They can also be synthesized as the product of a high temperature reaction between solids.\n\nIf the ionic compound is soluble in a solvent, it can be obtained as a solid compound by evaporating the solvent from this electrolyte solution. As the solvent is evaporated, the ions do not go into the vapour, but stay in the remaining solution, and when they become sufficiently concentrated, nucleation occurs, and they crystallize into an ionic compound. This process occurs widely in nature, and is the means of formation of the evaporite minerals. Another method of recovering the compound from solution involves saturating a solution at high temperature and then reducing the solubility by reducing the temperature until the solution is supersaturated and the solid compound nucleates.\n\nInsoluble ionic compounds can be precipitated by mixing two solutions, one with the cation and one with the anion in it. Because all solutions are electrically neutral, the two solutions mixed must also contain counterions of the opposite charges. To ensure that these do not contaminate the precipitated ionic compound, it is important to ensure they do not also precipitate. If the two solutions have hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions as the counterions, they will react with one another in what is called an acid–base reaction or a neutralization reaction to form water. Alternately the counterions can be chosen to ensure that even when combined into a single solution they will remain soluble as spectator ions.\n\nIf the solvent is water in either the evaporation or precipitation method of formation, in many cases the ionic crystal formed also includes water of crystallization, so the product is known as a hydrate, and can have very different chemical properties.\n\nMolten salts will solidify on cooling to below their freezing point. This is sometimes used for the solid-state synthesis of complex ionic compounds from solid reactants, which are first melted together. In other cases, the solid reactants do not need to be melted, but instead can react through a solid-state reaction route. In this method the reactants are repeatedly finely ground into a paste, and then heated to a temperature where the ions in neighbouring reactants can diffuse together during the time the reactant mixture remains in the oven. Other synthetic routes use a solid precursor with the correct stoichiometric ratio of non-volatile ions, which is heated to drive off other species.\n\nIn some reactions between highly reactive metals (usually from Group 1 or Group 2) and highly electronegative halogen gases, or water, the atoms can be ionized by electron transfer, a process thermodynamically understood using the Born–Haber cycle.\n\nIons in ionic compounds are primarily held together by the electrostatic forces between the charge distribution of these bodies, and in particular the ionic bond resulting from the long-ranged Coulomb attraction between the net negative charge of the anions and net positive charge of the cations. There is also a small additional attractive force from van der Waals interactions which contributes only around 1–2% of the cohesive energy for small ions. When a pair of ions comes close enough for their outer electron shells (most simple ions have closed shells) to overlap, a short-ranged repulsive force occurs, due to the Pauli exclusion principle. The balance between these forces leads to a potential energy well with a minimum energy when the nuclei are separated by a specific equilibrium distance.\n\nIf the electronic structure of the two interacting bodies is affected by the presence of one another, covalent interactions (non-ionic) also contribute to the overall energy of the compound formed. Ionic compounds are rarely purely ionic, i.e. held together only by electrostatic forces. The bonds between even the most electronegative/electropositive pairs such as those in caesium fluoride exhibit a small degree of covalency. Conversely, covalent bonds between unlike atoms often exhibit some charge separation and can be considered to have a partial ionic character. The circumstances under which a compound will have ionic or covalent character can typically be understood using Fajans' rules, which use only charges and the sizes of each ion. According to these rules, compounds with the most ionic character will have large positive ions with a low charge, bonded to a small negative ion with a high charge. More generally HSAB theory can be applied, whereby the compounds with the most ionic character are those consisting of hard acids and hard bases: small, highly charged ions with a high difference in electronegativities between the anion and cation. This difference in electronegativities means that the charge separation, and resulting dipole moment, is maintained even when the ions are in contact (the excess electrons on the anions are not transferred or polarized to neutralize the cations).\n\nIons typically pack into extremely regular crystalline structures, in an arrangement that minimizes the lattice energy (maximizing attractions and minimizing repulsions). The lattice energy is the summation of the interaction of all sites with all other sites. For unpolarizable spherical ions only the charges and distances are required to determine the electrostatic interaction energy. For any particular ideal crystal structure, all distances are geometrically related to the smallest internuclear distance. So for each possible crystal structure, the total electrostatic energy can be related to the electrostatic energy of unit charges at the nearest neighbour distance by a multiplicative constant called the Madelung constant that can be efficiently computed using an Ewald sum. When a reasonable form is assumed for the additional repulsive energy, the total lattice energy can be modelled using the Born–Landé equation, the Born–Mayer equation, or in the absence of structural information, the Kapustinskii equation.\n\nUsing an even simpler approximation of the ions as impenetrable hard spheres, the arrangement of anions in these systems are often related to close-packed arrangements of spheres, with the cations occupying tetrahedral or octahedral interstices. Depending on the stoichiometry of the ionic compound, and the coordination (principally determined by the radius ratio) of cations and anions, a variety of structures are commonly observed, and theoretically rationalized by Pauling's rules.\nIn some cases the anions take on a simple cubic packing, and the resulting common structures observed are:\n\nSome ionic liquids, particularly with mixtures of anions or cations, can be cooled rapidly enough that there is not enough time for crystal nucleation to occur, so an ionic glass is formed (with no long-range order).\n\nWithin an ionic crystal, there will usually be some point defects, but to maintain electroneutrality, these defects come in pairs. Frenkel defects consist of a cation vacancy paired with a cation interstitial and can be generated anywhere in the bulk of the crystal, occurring most commonly in compounds with a low coordination number and cations that are much smaller than the anions. Schottky defects consist of one vacancy of each type, and are generated at the surfaces of a crystal, occurring most commonly in compounds with a high coordination number and when the anions and cations are of similar size. If the cations have multiple possible oxidation states, then it is possible for cation vacancies to compensate for electron deficiencies on cation sites with higher oxidation numbers, resulting in a non-stoichiometric compound. Another non-stoichiometric possibility is the formation of an F-center, a free electron occupying an anion vacancy. When the compound has three or more ionic components, even more defect types are possible. All of these point defects can be generated via thermal vibrations and have an equilibrium concentration. Because they are energetically costly, but entropically beneficial, they occur in greater concentration at higher temperatures. Once generated, these pairs of defects can diffuse mostly independently of one another, by hopping between lattice sites. This defect mobility is the source of most transport phenomena within an ionic crystal, including diffusion and solid state ionic conductivity. When vacancies collide with interstitials (Frenkel), they can recombine and annihilate one another. Similarly vacancies are removed when they reach the surface of the crystal (Schottky). Defects in the crystal structure generally expand the lattice parameters, reducing the overall density of the crystal. Defects also result in ions in distinctly different local environments, which causes them to experience a different crystal-field symmetry, especially in the case of different cations exchanging lattice sites. This results in a different splitting of d-electron orbitals, so that the optical absorption (and hence colour) can change with defect concentration.\n\nIonic compounds containing hydrogen ions (H) are classified as acids, and those containing electropositive cations and basic anions ions hydroxide (OH) or oxide (O) are classified as bases. Other ionic compounds are known as salts and can be formed by acid–base reactions. If the compound is the result of a reaction between a strong acid and a weak base, the result is an acidic salt. If it is the result of a reaction between a strong base and a weak acid, the result is a basic salt. If it is the result of a reaction between a strong acid and a strong base, the result is a neutral salt. Weak acids reacted with weak bases can produce ionic compounds with both the conjugate base ion and conjugate acid ion, such as ammonium acetate.\n\nSome ions are classed as amphoteric, being able to react with either an acid or a base. This is also true of some compounds with ionic character, typically oxides or hydroxides of less-electropositive metals (so the compound also has significant covalent character), such as zinc oxide, aluminium hydroxide, aluminium oxide and lead(II) oxide.\n\nElectrostatic forces between particles are strongest when the charges are high, and the distance between the nuclei of the ions is small. In such cases, the compounds generally have very high melting and boiling points and a low vapour pressure. Trends in melting points can be even better explained when the structure and ionic size ratio is taken into account. Above their melting point ionic solids melt and become molten salts (although some ionic compounds such as aluminium chloride and iron(III) chloride show molecule-like structures in the liquid phase). Inorganic compounds with simple ions typically have small ions, and thus have high melting points, so are solids at room temperature. Some substances with larger ions, however, have a melting point below or near room temperature (often defined as up to 100 °C), and are termed ionic liquids. Ions in ionic liquids often have uneven charge distributions, or bulky substituents like hydrocarbon chains, which also play a role in determining the strength of the interactions and propensity to melt.\n\nEven when the local structure and bonding of an ionic solid is disrupted sufficiently to melt it, there are still strong long-range electrostatic forces of attraction holding the liquid together and preventing ions boiling to form a gas phase. This means that even room temperature ionic liquids have low vapour pressures, and require substantially higher temperatures to boil. Boiling points exhibit similar trends to melting points in terms of the size of ions and strength of other interactions. When vapourized, the ions are still not freed of one another. For example, in the vapour phase sodium chloride exists as diatomic \"molecules\".\n\nMost ionic compounds are very brittle. Once they reach the limit of their strength, they cannot deform malleably, because the strict alignment of positive and negative ions must be maintained. Instead the material undergoes fracture via cleavage. As the temperature is elevated (usually close to the melting point) a ductile–brittle transition occurs, and plastic flow becomes possible by the motion of dislocations.\n\nThe compressibility of an ionic compound is strongly determined by its structure, and in particular the coordination number. For example, halides with the caesium chloride structure (coordination number 8) are less compressible than those with the sodium chloride structure (coordination number 6), and less again than those with a coordination number of 4.\n\nWhen ionic compounds dissolve, the individual ions dissociate and are solvated by the solvent and dispersed throughout the resulting solution. Because the ions are released into solution when dissolved, and can conduct charge, soluble ionic compounds are the most common class of strong electrolytes, and their solutions have a high electrical conductivity.\nThe solubility is highest in polar solvents (such as water) or ionic liquids, but tends to be low in nonpolar solvents (such as petrol/gasoline). This is principally because the resulting ion–dipole interactions are significantly stronger than ion-induced dipole interactions, so the heat of solution is higher. When the oppositely charged ions in the solid ionic lattice are surrounded by the opposite pole of a polar molecule, the solid ions are pulled out of the lattice and into the liquid. If the solvation energy exceeds the lattice energy, the negative net enthalpy change of solution provides a thermodynamic drive to remove ions from their positions in the crystal and dissolve in the liquid. In addition, the entropy change of solution is usually positive for most solid solutes like ionic compounds, which means that their solubility increases when the temperature increases. There are some unusual ionic compounds such as cerium(III) sulfate, where this entropy change is negative, due to extra order induced in the water upon solution, and the solubility decreases with temperature.\n\nAlthough ionic compounds contain charged atoms or clusters, these materials do not typically conduct electricity to any significant extent when the substance is solid. In order to conduct, the charged particles must be mobile rather than stationary in a crystal lattice. This is achieved to some degree at high temperatures when the defect concentration increases the ionic mobility and solid state ionic conductivity is observed. When the ionic compounds are dissolved in a liquid or are melted into a liquid, they can conduct electricity because the ions become completely mobile. This conductivity gain upon dissolving or melting is sometimes used as a defining characteristic of ionic compounds.\n\nIn some unusual ionic compounds: fast ion conductors, and ionic glasses, one or more of the ionic components has a significant mobility, allowing conductivity even while the material as a whole remains solid. This is often highly temperature dependant, and may be the result of either a phase change or a high defect concentration. These materials are used in all solid-state supercapacitors, batteries, and fuel cells, and in various kinds of chemical sensors.\n\nThe colour of an ionic compound is often different to the colour of an aqueous solution containing the constituent ions, or the hydrated form of the same compound.\n\nThe anions in compounds with bonds with the most ionic character tend to be colourless (with an absorption band in the ultraviolet part of the spectrum). In compounds with less ionic character, their colour deepens through yellow, orange, red and black (as the absorption band shifts to longer wavelengths into the visible spectrum).\n\nThe absorption band of simple cations shift toward shorter wavelength when they are involved in more covalent interactions. This occurs during hydration of metal ions, so colourless anhydrous ionic compounds with an anion absorbing in the infrared can become colourful in solution.\n\nIonic compounds have long had a wide variety of uses and applications. Many minerals are ionic. Humans have processed common salt (sodium chloride) for over 8000 years, using it first as a food seasoning and preservative, and now also in manufacturing, agriculture, water conditioning, for de-icing roads, and many other uses. Many ionic compounds are so widely used in society that they go by common names unrelated to their chemical identity. Examples of this include borax, calomel, milk of magnesia, muriatic acid, oil of vitriol, saltpeter, and slaked lime.\n\nSoluble ionic compounds like salt can easily be dissolved to provide electrolyte solutions. This is a simple way to control the concentration and ionic strength. The concentration of solutes affects many colligative properties, including increasing the osmotic pressure, and causing freezing-point depression and boiling-point elevation. Because the solutes are charged ions they also increase the electrical conductivity of the solution. The increased ionic strength reduces the thickness of the electrical double layer around colloidal particles, and therefore the stability of emulsions and suspensions.\n\nThe chemical identity of the ions added is also important in many uses. For example, fluoride containing compounds are dissolved to supply fluoride ions for water fluoridation.\n\nSolid ionic compounds have long been used as paint pigments, and are resistant to organic solvents, but are sensitive to acidity or basicity. Since 1801 pyrotechnicians have described and widely used metal-containing ionic compounds as sources of colour in fireworks. Under intense heat, the electrons in the metal ions or small molecules can be excited. These electrons later return to lower energy states, and release light with a colour spectrum characteristic of the species present.\n\nIn chemistry, ionic compounds are often used as precursors for high-temperature solid-state synthesis.\n\nMany metals are geologically most abundant as ionic compounds within ores. To obtain the elemental materials, these ores are processed by smelting or electrolysis, in which redox reactions occur (often with a reducing agent such as carbon) such that the metal ions gain electrons to become neutral atoms.\n\nAccording to the nomenclature recommended by IUPAC, ionic compounds are named according to their composition, not their structure. In the most simple case of a binary ionic compound with no possible ambiguity about the charges and thus the stoichiometry, the common name is written using two words. The name of the cation (the unmodified element name for monatomic cations) comes first, followed by the name of the anion. For example, MgCl is named magnesium chloride, and NaSO is named sodium sulfate (, sulfate, is an example of a polyatomic ion). To obtain the empirical formula from these names, the stoichiometry can be deduced from the charges on the ions, and the requirement of overall charge neutrality.\n\nIf there are multiple different cations and/or anions, multiplicative prefixes (\"di-\", \"tri-\", \"tetra-\", ...) are often required to indicate the relative compositions, and cations then anions are listed in alphabetical order. For example, KMgCl is named magnesium potassium trichloride to distinguish it from KMgCl, magnesium dipotassium tetrachloride (note that in both the empirical formula and the written name, the cations appear in alphabetical order, but the order varies between them because the symbol for potassium is K). When one of the ions already has a multiplicative prefix within its name, the alternate multiplicative prefixes (\"bis-\", \"tris-\", \"tetrakis-\", ...) are used. For example, Ba(BrF) is named barium bis(tetrafluoridobromate).\n\nCompounds containing one or more elements which can exist in a variety of charge/oxidation states will have a stoichiometry that depends on which oxidation states are present, to ensure overall neutrality. This can be indicated in the name by specifying either the oxidation state of the elements present, or the charge on the ions. Because of the risk of ambiguity in allocating oxidation states, IUPAC prefers direct indication of the ionic charge numbers. These are written as an arabic integer followed by the sign (... , 2−, 1−, 1+, 2+, ...) in parentheses directly after the name of the cation (without a space separating them). For example, FeSO is named iron(2+) sulfate (with the 2+ charge on the Fe ions balancing the 2− charge on the sulfate ion), whereas Fe(SO) is named iron(3+) sulfate (because the two iron ions in each formula unit each have a charge of 3+, to balance the 2− on each of the three sulfate ions). Stock nomenclature, still in common use, writes the oxidation number in Roman numerals (... , −II, −I, 0, I, II, ...). So the examples given above would be named iron(II) sulfate and iron(III) sulfate respectively. For simple ions the ionic charge and the oxidation number are identical, but for polyatomic ions they often differ. For example, the uranyl(2+) ion, , has uranium in an oxidation state of +6, so would be called a dioxouranium(VI) ion in Stock nomenclature. An even older naming system for metal cations, also still widely used, appended the suffixes \"-ous\" and \"-ic\" to the Latin root of the name, to give special names for the low and high oxidation states. For example, this scheme uses \"ferrous\" and \"ferric\", for iron(II) and iron(III) respectively, so the examples given above were classically named ferrous sulfate and ferric sulfate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48202243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48202243", "title": "Kvænangsbotn Hydroelectric Power Station", "text": "Kvænangsbotn Hydroelectric Power Station\n\nThe Kvænangsbotn Hydroelectric Power Station () is a hydroelectric power station in the municipality of Kvænangen in Troms county, Norway. It utilizes a drop of between its intake reservoir at Little Lakes (, , ) and South Fjord (, , ). The reservoir is regulated at a level between and . The Abo River (, , ) is also utilized by the power plant. Water is supplied to the reservoir by the Småvatna, Lassajavre, and Cårrujavrit Hydroelectric Power Stations. The plant came into operation in 1965. In 1999 the company received a license to transfer water from the Brenn River (), Šleađui River (), and Olbmá River (). The plant has a Francis turbine and operates at an installed capacity of , with an average annual production of about 176 GWh. The plant is controlled by Kvænangen Kraftverk AS, with a 48.2% share owned by Troms Kraft.\n"}
{"id": "20831236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20831236", "title": "Levi Yissar", "text": "Levi Yissar\n\nLevi Yissar was an Israeli engineer and entrepreneur. He built the first prototype Israeli solar water heater. In the 1950s there was a fuel and electricity shortage in the new Israeli state, and the government forbade heating water between 10 p.m. and 6 p.m. As the situation worsened, Yissar proposed that instead of building more electrical generators, homes should switch to solar water heaters. He built a prototype in his home, and in 1953 he started NerYah Company, Israel's first commercial manufacturer of solar water heaters. By 1967 around one in twenty households heated their water with the sun and 50,000 solar heaters had been sold. However, cheap oil from Iran and from oil fields captured in the Six-Day War made Israeli electricity cheaper and the demand for solar heaters to drop. Following the energy crisis in the 1970s, the Israeli Knesset passed a law requiring the installation of solar water heaters in all new homes (except high towers with insufficient roof area). As a result, Israel is now the world leader in the use of solar energy \"per capita\" (3% of the primary national energy consumption).\n"}
{"id": "25309794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25309794", "title": "Lycopodium powder", "text": "Lycopodium powder\n\nLycopodium powder is a yellow-tan dust-like powder, consisting of the dry spores of clubmoss plants, or various fern relatives. When mixed with air, the spores are highly flammable and are used to create flashes or flames as theatrical special effects. \nThe powder is consists of the dry spores of clubmoss plants, or various fern relatives principally in the genera \"Lycopodium\" and \"Diphasiastrum\". The preferred source species are \"Lycopodium clavatum\" (wolf's-foot clubmoss) and \"Diphasiastrum digitatum\" (common groundcedar), because these widespread and often locally abundant species are both prolific in their spore production and easy to collect.\n\nToday, the principal use of the powder is to create flashes or flames that are large and impressive but relatively easy to manage safely in magic acts and for cinema and theatrical special effects. Historically it was also used as a photographic flash powder. Both these uses rely on the same principal as a dust explosion, as the spores have a large surface area per unit of volume, (a single spore's diameter is about 33 micrometers (μm)), and a high fat content.\n\nIt is also used in fireworks and explosives, fingerprint powders, as a covering for pills, and as an ice cream stabilizer.\n\nLycopodium powder is also sometimes used as a lubricating dust on skin-contacting latex (natural rubber) goods, such as condoms and medical gloves.\n\nIn physics experiments and demonstrations, lycopodium powder can be used to make sound waves in air visible for observation and measurement, and to make a pattern of electrostatic charge visible. The powder is also highly hydrophobic; if the surface of a cup of water is coated with lycopodium powder, a finger or other object inserted straight into the cup will come out dusted with the powder but remain perfectly dry.\n\nBecause of the very small size of its particles, lycopodium powder can be used to demonstrate Brownian motion. A microscope slide, with or without a well, is prepared with a droplet of water, and a fine dusting of lycopodium powder is applied. Then, a cover-glass can be placed over the water and spore sample in order to reduce convection in the water by evaporation. Under several hundred diameters magnification, one will see in the microscope, when well focused upon individual lycopodium particles, that the spore particles \"dance\" randomly. This is in response to asymmetric collisional forces applied to the macroscopic (but still quite small) powder particle by microscopic water molecules in random thermal motion. The lycopodium particles appear to be \"alive\", but they are only inert particles being buffeted by forces which, again, because of the small size of the lycopodium particles, respond to the momentum applied to them, which does not quite average to zero in three dimensions. Thus, the particles move.\n\nAs a then-common laboratory supply, lycopodium powder was often used by inventors developing experimental prototypes. For example, Nicéphore Niépce used lycopodium powder in the fuel for the first internal combustion engine, the Pyréolophore, about 1807, and Chester Carlson used lycopodium powder in 1938 in his early experiments to demonstrate xerography.\n\n"}
{"id": "17142680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17142680", "title": "Ministry of Oil (Iraq)", "text": "Ministry of Oil (Iraq)\n\nThe Ministry of Oil () is the Iraqi government agency responsible for Iraqi petroleum. The Minister of Oil since 2016 is Jabbar Alluaibi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52276647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52276647", "title": "Moisture removal efficiency", "text": "Moisture removal efficiency\n\nMoisture Removal Efficiency (MRE) is a measure of the energy efficiency of any dehumidification process. Moisture removal efficiency is the water vapor removed from air at a defined inlet air temperature and humidity, divided by the total energy consumed by the dehumidification equipment during the same time period, including all fan and pump energy needed to move air and fluids through the system.\n\nWater vapor removal is expressed as pounds or kilograms. Energy is usually expressed as kilowatt hours. Inlet air temperature is expressed in either degrees Fahrenheit or degrees Celsius. Inlet air humidity may be expressed in several ways, most commonly as the humidity ratio of the inlet air; the weight of water vapor in the air, compared to the weight of the dry air that contains it. An example of the MRE of a dehumidification system could be: 4.4 lb/kWh @ 85 °F, 140 gr/lb. Using the SI system of units, that same MRE would be 2.0 kg/kWh @ 30 °C, 20.0 g/kg.\n\nThe authority for this definition of moisture removal efficiency is ANSI/AHRI Standard 920, published by the Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute (AHRI). AHRI is an association of equipment manufacturers. Standard 920 was developed by the group of manufacturing members of AHRI that is concerned with energy efficiency of packaged dedicated outdoor air systems (DOAS equipment). The standard provides an objective and quantitative basis for rating and comparing dehumidification performance and energy consumption of equipment that dehumidifies incoming ventilation and makeup air as part of a building’s mechanical systems.\n\nDehumidification of ventilation and makeup air consumes a great deal of energy worldwide. In all except desert and high-altitude climates, the annual dehumidification load for ventilation air exceeds the annual cooling load for ventilation air by a factor of 2 to 5.\n\nThe issue of energy efficiency of dehumidification arises because of regulatory requirements in some nations that demand energy efficiency for buildings’ mechanical systems.\n\nAccording to members of AHRI’s dehumidification product section, the reason for developing Standard 920 was to provide ASHRAE with a neutral and high-quality test method for dehumidification energy efficiency. The committee’s goal was to have ASHRAE include minimum dehumidification efficiency requirements in ASHRAE Standard 90.1. That standard is often used as the basis of building energy codes in the US and Canada, and also used worldwide as the baseline for voluntary energy programs such as LEED Certification (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design)\n\nTo provide a metric that allows estimation of annual rather than instantaneous dehumidification performance of ventilation dehumidification systems, AHRI Standard 920 further defines a test protocol for measuring a system’s “integrated seasonal moisture removal efficiency”. This metric is analogous to the seasonal energy efficiency ratio (SEER) that is used to compare cooling energy efficiency of competing equipment.\n\nLike the SEER test methodology, AHRI Standard 920 requires that the dehumidification equipment be tested at several discrete combinations of inlet air temperature and humidity. In the 2015 edition of the standard, four such test conditions are defined. The moisture removal efficiency of the equipment is measured at each of these conditions, and then a proportionality factor is applied to each MRE. The results of those calculations are summed to arrive at the rated ISMRE of the equipment.\n\nASHRAE ASHRAE\n\nASHRAE Standard 90.1 ASHRAE 90.1\n\nAHRI Air Conditioning, Heating and Refrigeration Institute\n\nDehumidifier Dehumidifier\n\nSEER Seasonal energy efficiency ratio\n\nLEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design\n"}
{"id": "44261690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44261690", "title": "Monofluorophosphate", "text": "Monofluorophosphate\n\nMonofluorophosphate is an anion with the formula POF, which is a phosphate group with one oxygen atom substituted with a fluoride atom. The charge of the ion is −2. The ion resembles sulfate in size, shape and charge, and can thus form compounds with the same structure as sulfates. These include Tutton's salts and langbeinites. The most well-known compound of monofluorophosphate is sodium monofluorophosphate, commonly used in toothpaste.\n\nRelated ions include difluorophosphate () and hexafluorophosphate (). The related neutral molecule is phosphenic fluoride POF.\n\nOrganic derivatives can be highly toxic and include diisopropyl fluorophosphate. Some of the Novichok agents are monofluorophosphate esters. Names are given to these by naming the groups attached as esters and then adding \"fluorophosphonate\" to the end of the name. Two organic groups can be attached. Other related nerve gas substances may not be esters, and instead have carbon-phosphorus or nitrogen-phosphorus bonds. The organic fluorophosphonates react with serine esterases and serine proteases irreversibly. This prevents these enzymes from functioning. Such an important enzyme is acetylcholinesterase as found in most animals. Some of the organic esters are detoxified in mammals by an enzym in the blood and liver called paraoxonase PON1.\n\nWilly Lange from Berlin discovered sodium monofluorophosphate in 1929. He fruitlessly tried to make monofluorophosphoric acid. However, he did discover the highly toxic organic esters. Following this discovery various nerve gases like sarin were developed.\n\nFluorophosphate glasses are low melting point kinds of glass which are mixtures of fluoride and phosphate metal compounds. For example, the composition 10% SnO, 40% SnF, 50% PO forms a glass melting about 139 °C. PbO and PbF can lower the melting temperature, and increase water resistance. These glasses can also be coloured by various other elements, and organic dyes.\n\nHydrolysis of difluorophosphate with an alkali produces monofluorophosphate.\n\nIndustrial production is by reaction of a fluoride with a metaphosphate.\n\nDisodium hydrogen phosphate or tetrasodium pyrophosphate can react with hydrogen fluoride to form the sodium salt.\n\nPhosphoric acid reacts with metal fluorides dissolved in molten urea to yield monofluorphosphates.\n\nMonofluorophosphates are stable at room temperature, but will decompose when heated. For example, at 450 K silver monofluorophosphate gives off phosphoryl fluoride (POF) as a gas leaving behind silver phosphate (AgPO) and silver pyrophosphate (AgPO).\n\nZinc monofluorophosphate can be used as a corrosion inhibitor for steel when salt is present.\n\nGlutamine monofluorophosphate has been used as a fluoride-bearing medicine.\n"}
{"id": "23700671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23700671", "title": "Multihead weigher", "text": "Multihead weigher\n\nA multihead weigher is a fast, accurate and reliable weighing machine, used in packing both food and non-food products.\n\nThe multihead weigher was invented and developed by Ishida in the 1970s and launched it into the food industry across the world.\n\nToday this kind of machine, thanks to its high speed and accuracy, has widely spread in the packaging industry and is produced worldwide by a number of manufacturers. Some manufacturers offer complete packaging lines, integrating the multihead weigher with other packaging machinery ranging from bagmakers (including Vertical Form Fill and Seal bagmakers) to traysealers and inspection systems. The latter include checkweighers and X-ray inspection systems.\n\nA ‘typical target’ weight per pack might be 100 grams of a product. The product is fed to the top of the multihead weigher where it is dispersed to the pool hoppers. Each pool hopper drops the product into a weigh hopper beneath it as soon as the weigh hopper becomes empty.\n\nThe weigher’s computer determines the weight of product in each individual weigh hopper and identifies which combination contains the weight closest to the target weight of 100g. The multihead weigher opens all the hoppers of this combination and the product falls, via a discharge chute, into a bagmaker or, alternatively, into a distribution system which places the product, for example, into trays.\n\nDispersion is normally by gravity, vibration or centrifugal force, while feeding can be driven by vibration, gravity, belts, or screw systems.\n\nAn extra layer of hoppers (‘booster hoppers’) can be added to store product which has been weighed in the weigh hoppers but not used in a weighment, thus increasing the number of suitable combinations available to the computer and so increasing speed and accuracy.\n\nMultihead weighing can help in the following ways:\n\nFilling bags\n\nThe range of bags which can be filled using multihead weighers is immense. At one end of the scale are large catering packs of many kilogrammes. At the other are small bags of crisps which can be handled at high speed and efficiency.\n\nMix-weighing\n\nProducts containing up to eight components can be mixed on a multihead weigher, very accurately at high speeds. The weigher is divided into sections, each with its own infeed. For example, a breakfast cereal containing hazelnuts and dried fruit plus two relatively cheap ingredients, could be weighed on a multihead with say eight heads devoted to each of the more expensive components and four heads to each of the other two. This would ensure high weighing speed while ensuring that overfilling of the expensive ingredients was negligible.\n\nPlacing into trays\n\nA well-engineered distribution system enables you to combine the speed and accuracy of multihead weighing with precise, splash-free delivery of product into trays.\n\nMultihead weighers were used initially for weighing certain vegetables. Their use expanded exponentially in the 1970s and 1980s when they were applied to the rapid weighing of snacks and confectionery into bags.\nWhat cherry tomatoes and crisps had in common was that they flowed easily through the machine and into the pack, with no more encouragement than gravity and a moderate level of vibration of the feeders.\nSince then, the accuracy and relative speed have been extended to many products which would in the early days of the technology have been seen as difficult to handle.\n\nSticky products\n\nFresh meat and fish, whether in a sauce or not, poultry and cheese (including grated cheese) can be moved along by using belts or screw feeders rather than vibration.\n\nGranules and powders\n\nWhile free-flowing, fine-grained powders can be weighed more cheaply by other means (such as cut-gate or linear weighers, or volumetric feeders), granules such as coffee granules and products such as loose tea can be weighed on today’s multiheads.\n\nFragile products\n\nWeighers with more shallow angles of descent and various cushioned inserts have made it possible to pack delicate and brittle items such as hand-made chocolates and gourmet biscuits.\n\nComplex products\n\nUsing mix-weighing combined with a distribution system tailored to deliver separate components into a tray, a ready meal can be assembled with just the right quantities of, say, rice, meat and vegetables in the appropriate compartments.\n\n"}
{"id": "849807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=849807", "title": "National Lubricating Grease Institute", "text": "National Lubricating Grease Institute\n\nThe National Lubricating Grease Institute is an international trade association that serves the grease and gear lubricant industry. It exists to promote research and development of lubrication technology. It also publishes industry standards for greases.\n\nThe NLGI was incorporated by a small number of U.S. companies in 1933 to create a code for the National Recovery Act. The original name of the organization was the \"National Association of Lubricating Grease Manufacturers, Inc\". The name was changed in 1937 as the industry recognized the need for a joint development and standards association and membership grew.\n\nThe NLGI is a not-for-profit corporation whose membership includes grease manufacturers and sales organizations, associated equipment manufacturers, industry suppliers, service organizations, research and educational groups. Membership is open to corporations and individuals.\n\nAccording to information posted by the NLGI in 2004, the institute has member organizations in 26 countries, while subscriptions to its journal, the \"NLGI Spokesman\", represent 50 countries.\n\nIn cooperation with ASTM International and SAE International, the NLGI has developed the categorisation of lubricating greases specified in standard \"“standard classification and specification for automotive service greases”\", reproduced in standard \"“automotive lubricating greases”\". The NLGI retains jurisdiction over the designation and definition of the categories, which it publishes in its \"“chassis and wheel bearing service classification system”\". The NLGI has also created a symbol, the \"NLGI Certification Mark\", which can be used on containers of greases to advertise their category.\n\nThe measure of the consistency of a lubricating grease is commonly expressed by its NLGI consistency number, defined by the NLGI in the \"“standard classification of lubricating grease”\". The NLGI consistency number is used in several standards: , and \"“lubricants, industrial oils and related products (class L) — classification — part 9: family X (greases)”\".\n\nThe NLGI also administers a professional certification program. Individuals passing an examination designed to test their knowledge in the field of lubricating grease obtain the \"Certified Lubricating Grease Specialist\" (CLGS) certification.\n"}
{"id": "15602057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15602057", "title": "Nervonic acid", "text": "Nervonic acid\n\nNervonic acid (24:1, n-9) is a fatty acid. It is a monounsaturated analog of lignoceric acid (24:0). It is also known as selacholeic acid and \"cis\"-15-tetracosenoic acid.\n\nIt exists in nature as an elongation product of oleic acid (18:1 Δ9), its immediate precursor being erucic acid. Nervonic acid is particularly abundant in the white matter of animal brains and in peripheral nervous tissue where nervonyl sphingolipids are enriched in the myelin sheath of nerve fibers.\n\nIn the same way, recent studies have concluded that nervonic acid is implicated as an intermediate in the biosynthesis of nerve cell myelin.\n\nThis acid is an important member of the group of the cerebrosides, which are fatty acids of the glycosphingolipids group, important components of the muscles and the central nervous system and peripheral. Indeed, it is one of the major fatty acids in brain sphingolipids, normally accounting for approximately 40% of the total fatty acids in sphingolipids.\n\nAs it is defined as a monounsaturated fatty acid, it has one double bond in the fatty acid chain and all the remaining carbon atoms are single-bonded.\n\nIt is classified in the sub-group of very long chain fatty acids (VLCFA), which includes molecules containing more than 20 carbon atoms. It has specifically 24-carbon backbone and the sole C=C double bond originating from the methyl end is in n-9 or omega-9 (ω-9).\n\nNervonic acid is an essential nutrient for the growth and maintenance of the brain.\n\nThis acid has been found in breast-milk: it is said it can speed the development in infants. It is the reason why it is recommended to pregnant and nursing women.\n\nThis acid is a regulator of the Ca ion channel in the cell membrane of nerve tissues, so nervonic acid plays an important role in the control of the levels of calcium of the cytosol.\n\nNervonic acid can regulate the function of brain cell membranes and have a neuroprotective effect which is important to high-level training adults or athletes: it is an energy supplement.\n\nMoreover, due to its function as an intermediate in myelin biosynthesis, dietary therapy with nervonic acid-containing fats has been studied: nervonic acid appears to be beneficial for the treatment of genetic disorders of the lipid metabolism, such as Zellweger syndrome or adrenoleukodistrophy. Nervonic acid beta-oxidation takes place in peroxisomes, and this oxidation is impaired in X-ALD patients. Due to different mutations, people having these disorders have ineffective peroxisomes. It causes an important accumulation of very long chain fatty acids, that can be treated with oils enriched with 24:1 (Lorenzo's oil, Lunaria's oil).\n\nIt is also used as a biomarker to predict who will suffer some psychoses. For instance, there is evidence of abnormal levels of fatty acids in individuals with schizophrenia. In particular, decreased levels of 24:1 are related with prodromal psychosis symptoms so it can be beneficial in the prevention and treatment of this kind of disorders.\n\nNervonic acid can be an indicator of future neurodevelopmental disorders in male babies whose mother has preeclampsia. Recent studies show that cord nervonic acid levels were lower in women with preeclampsia delivering male babies as compared to normotensive control group. But this does not happen with girl babies. These results suggest that male babies born to mothers with preeclampsia may be at an increased risk of developing neurodevelopmental disorders as compared to female babies.\n\nThis acid is present in the composition of aged eye lens, but it does not appear in normal eye lens. This data shows that we can use the presence of nervonic acid (together with heneicosylic acid and docosahexaenoic acid) as biomarkers of aging lens, which is the most vulnerable stage for cataract development.\n\nNervonic acid occurs in seed oil of plants, where significant amounts are contained. Indeed, more than 10% of the lipids contain nervonic acid, usually in the form of triglycerides. The seed oils of \"Lunaria\" species (\"Lunaria biennis\" or \"Lunaria annua\", for example) are a quite important source of this long chain fatty acid, since they contain over 20% of it in the triglyceride lipid. Nervonic acid is also found in \"Cardamine gracea\", \"Heliophila longifola\", and \"Malania oleifera\". In all these species, 24:1 usually is esterified at the sn-1 and sn-3 positions on the glycerol backbone. Other sources can be the molds \"Neocallimastix frontalis\", the bacterium \"Pseudomonas atlantica\", the yeast \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\", and the marine diatom \"Nitzschia cylindrus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23510634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23510634", "title": "Oil &amp; Gas UK", "text": "Oil &amp; Gas UK\n\nOil & Gas UK is the leading trade association for the United Kingdom offshore oil and gas industry.\n\nOil & Gas UK is a not-for-profit organisation, established in April 2007 on the foundations of the UK Offshore Operators Association (UKOOA). The association is the leading representative body for the UK offshore oil and gas industry that stretches back over 30 years. Its membership is open to all companies active in the area; these include businesses such as super majors to large contractor businesses and from independent oil companies to SMEs working in the supply chain.\n\nOil & Gas UK is a trade association for the whole sector. It is a source of information for the UK Upstream and a gateway to industry networks and expertise.\n\nThey do this by:\n\nThe association is situated in Portland House on the corner of \"Bressenden Place\" and \"Victoria Street\" in the City of Westminster. It also has an office on \"Market Street\" in Aberdeen near the train station, in the town where the UKOOA was based.\n\nOil & Gas UK has two subsidiaries:\n"}
{"id": "5802832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5802832", "title": "Parque Arqueológico do Solstício", "text": "Parque Arqueológico do Solstício\n\nThe Parque Arqueológico do Solstício (Solstice Archaeological Park), referred to in academic sources as AP-CA-18, is an archaeological park located in Amapá state, Brazil, near the city of Calçoene. It contains a megalithic stone circle, colloquially known as the Amazon Stonehenge, consisting of 127 blocks of granite, each up to 4 meters tall, standing upright in a circle measuring over 30 meters in diameter at the bank of the Rego Grande river on a hilltop. Archaeologists believe that this site was built by indigenous peoples for astronomical, ceremonial, or burial purposes, and likely a combination. The function of this megalithic site is unknown, much like other sites such as Stonehenge, a much older site in Great Britain.\n\nThe first reports of the Rego Grande site are from naturalist Emilio Goeldi in the late 19th century. Locals have called the site \"Tropical Stonehenge\" for some time. In 2005, archaeologists began excavation of the site after it was reported by a geologist during a socioeconomic study.\n\nThough the stones have not been submitted to dating techniques, carbon-dating of pottery sherds has placed the site at 500 – 2000 years old. The origin of these granite blocks has yet to be studied as well. In certain Megalithic sites, such as Stonehenge in Wiltshire, England, the blocks were moved to the site from some distance away. Archaeologists are not yet sure whether the Rego Grande site were also brought from elsewhere.\n\nOn the winter solstice of December 21, the shortest day of the year in the northern hemisphere, the shadow of one of the blocks disappears when the sun is directly above it. The rock seems to be placed at angle so that the shadow is possibly small throughout the day. It is this block's alignment with the December solstice that leads archaeologists to believe the site was once a type of astronomical observatory. They believe the site was made by a sophisticated indigenous culture. One of the stones has a circular hole carved into it. During the winter solstice, the sun shines directly though this hole onto another rock for an extended amount of time, supporting the idea that Amazon Stonehenge was used as an astronomical site.\n\nApart from the circular hole the granite stones that make up Amazon Stonehenge appear irregularly shaped. Whether this irregularity reflects primitive mining technology or holds clues regarding potential uses of the site has not yet been determined.\n\nDuring the excavations two large pits have been found, both approximately 1.5 – 2 meters deep and covered by large stone slabs. During excavation, shards of pottery, red clay, and ash from human remains were found. Three intact urns were found in a triangular formation at the bottom of one pit and more intact urns, as well as a few lids were found in the second. Remnants of cremated human remains have been found with these shards and in the urns, suggesting that these pits were either burial sites or that select human remains were buried here because they were significant. Shards of bowls and other pieces of pottery have been found in smaller pits near by. These bowls, lids, and urns have been found created in the shapes of animals and human-like figurines.\n\nEvidence has been found near the Rego Grande site and all over the Amazon to suggest that the indigenous people of the region lived in a complex societies that involved both agriculture and a close relationship with the natural environment around them.\n\nThere are also several other megalithic sites in Brazil that follow the curves of the Rego Grande river. The fact that these Megalithic sites seem to follow such a pattern suggests that Amazon Stonehenge may have been used as either a ceremonial site and that its structure and cultural significance were shared amount different indigenous communities in pre-Columbian Brazil.\n\nDespite not knowing the exact use of the Rego Grande site, most scientist agree that it alludes to a pre-Columbian society that was much more complex than previously thought.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45456096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45456096", "title": "Pawan Danavi Wind Farm", "text": "Pawan Danavi Wind Farm\n\nThe Pawan Danavi Wind Farm (also internally known as the Kalpitiya Wind Farm, and LTL Holdings Wind Farm after its parent company) is a onshore wind farm located near Kalpitiya, in the Puttalam District of Sri Lanka. The wind farm utilizes twelve of wind turbines. Pawan Danavi is a subsidiary company of .\n\n"}
{"id": "11614796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11614796", "title": "Plastic bottle", "text": "Plastic bottle\n\nA plastic bottle is a bottle constructed from high density plastic. Plastic bottles are typically used to store liquids such as water, soft drinks, motor oil, cooking oil, medicine, shampoo, milk, and ink. The size ranges from very small sample bottles to large carboys. Some consumer blow molded containers have integral handles.\n\nPlastic bottles were first used commercially in 1947 but remained relatively expensive until the early 1950s when high-density polyethylene was introduced. They quickly became popular with both manufacturers and customers due to their lightweight nature and relatively low production and transportation costs compared with glass bottles. However, the biggest advantage plastic bottles have over glass is their superior resistance to breakage, in both production and transportation. Except for wine and beer, the food industry has almost completely replaced glass bottles with plastic bottles.\n\nThe materials used in the manufacture of plastic bottles vary by application.\n\n\n\nThere is ongoing concern as to the use of plastics in consumer food packaging solutions, environmental impact of the disposal of these products, as well as concerns regarding consumer safety. Karin Michaels, Associate Professor at Harvard Medical School, suggests that toxins leaching from plastics might be related to disorders such as infertility and cancer in humans.\n\nIn the United States, plastic water bottles are regulated by the FDA which also inspects and samples bottled water plants periodically. Plastic water bottle plants hold a low priority for inspection due to a continuously good safety record. In the past, the FDA maintained that there was a lack of human data showing plastics pose health problems, however in January 2010, the FDA reversed its opinion saying they now have concerns about health risks. An article published on November 6, 2017 in Water Research reported on the content of microplastics in mineral waters packed in plastic or glass bottles, or beverage cartons. In 2018, research conducted by Sherri Mason from the State University of New York in Fredonia revealed the presence of polypropylene, polystyrene, nylon and polyethylene terephthalate microparticles in plastic bottles. Polypropylene was hereby found to be the most common polymeric material (54%) and nylon the second most abundant (16%) polymeric material. The study also mentioned that polypropylene and polyethylene are polymers that are often used to make plastic bottle caps. Also, 4% of retrieved plastic particles were found to have signatures of industrial lubricants coating the polymer. The research was reviewed by Andrew Mayes of the University of East Anglia (UEA) School of ChemistryThe European Food Safety Authority suggested most microplastics are excreted by the body, however the UN Food and Agriculture Organization warned that it is possible that the smallest particles (< 1.5 μm) could enter the bloodstream and organs, via the intestinal wall.\n\nPlastic bottles are marked at their base with the resin identification code to indicate the material used.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18691464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18691464", "title": "Plastic igniter cord", "text": "Plastic igniter cord\n\nA plastic igniter cord (PIC) is a type of fuse used to initiate an explosive device or charge. In appearance igniter cord is similar to safety fuse and when ignited, an intense flame spits perpendicular to the cord at a uniform rate as it burns along its length. Igniter cord in construction is again similar to safety fuse, consisting of a pyrotechnic composition at the core, wrapped with a nylon sheath to provide shape and finally wrapped again in an outer plastic shell to provide water resistance. Normally, igniter cord also consists of a metal wire at the very center of the pyrotechnic core which also runs the entire length of the cord; the pyrotechnic composition will react with the metal wire (typically aluminum, iron or copper) to increase the energetics of the fuse. There are two types of PICs: the fast type which has nominal burning speed of 30 cm per second, a diameter of about 3 mm, and is brownish in color; and the slow type, which has a diameter of 2 mm, is greenish in color, and has a nominal burning speed of 3 cm per second.\n\n"}
{"id": "23321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23321", "title": "Promethium", "text": "Promethium\n\nPromethium is a chemical element with symbol Pm and atomic number 61. All of its isotopes are radioactive; it is extremely rare, with only about 500-600 grams naturally occurring in Earth's crust at any given time, and one of only two such elements that are followed in the periodic table by elements with stable forms, a distinction shared with technetium. Chemically, promethium is a lanthanide. Promethium shows only one stable oxidation state of +3.\n\nIn 1902 Bohuslav Brauner suggested that there was a then-unknown element with properties intermediate between those of the known elements neodymium (60) and samarium (62); this was confirmed in 1914 by Henry Moseley who, having measured the atomic numbers of all the elements then known, found that atomic number 61 was missing. In 1926, two groups (one Italian and one American) claimed to have isolated a sample of element 61; both \"discoveries\" were soon proven to be false. In 1938, during a nuclear experiment conducted at Ohio State University, a few radioactive nuclides were produced that certainly were not radioisotopes of neodymium or samarium, but there was a lack of chemical proof that element 61 was produced, and the discovery was not generally recognized. Promethium was first produced and characterized at Oak Ridge National Laboratory in 1945 by the separation and analysis of the fission products of uranium fuel irradiated in a graphite reactor. The discoverers proposed the name \"prometheum\" (the spelling was subsequently changed), derived from Prometheus, the Titan in Greek mythology who stole fire from Mount Olympus and brought it down to humans, to symbolize \"both the daring and the possible misuse of mankind's intellect\". However, a sample of the metal was made only in 1963.\n\nThere are two possible sources for natural promethium: rare decays of natural europium-151 (producing promethium-147), and uranium (various isotopes). Practical applications exist only for chemical compounds of promethium-147, which are used in luminous paint, atomic batteries and thickness measurement devices, even though promethium-145 is the most stable promethium isotope. Because natural promethium is exceedingly scarce, it is typically synthesized by bombarding uranium-235 (enriched uranium) with thermal neutrons to produce promethium-147 as a fission product.\n\nA promethium atom has 61 electrons, arranged in the configuration [Xe]4f6s. In forming compounds, the atom loses its two outermost electrons and one of the 4f-electrons, which belongs to an open subshell. The element's atomic radius is the second largest among all the lanthanides but is only slightly greater than those of the neighboring elements. It is the most notable exception to the general trend of the contraction of lanthanide atoms with the increase of their atomic numbers. (see lanthanide contraction).\nMany properties of promethium rely on its position among lanthanides and are intermediate between those of neodymium and samarium. For example, the melting point, the first three ionization energies, and the hydration energy are greater than those of neodymium and lower than those of samarium; similarly, the estimate for the boiling point, ionic (Pm) radius, and standard heat of formation of monatomic gas are greater than those of samarium and less than those of neodymium.\n\nPromethium has a double hexagonal close packed (dhcp) structure and a hardness of 63 kg/mm. This low-temperature alpha form converts into a beta, body-centered cubic (bcc) phase upon heating to 890 °C.\n\nPromethium belongs to the cerium group of lanthanides and is chemically very similar to the neighboring elements. Because of its instability, chemical studies of promethium are incomplete. Even though a few compounds have been synthesized, they are not fully studied; in general, they tend to be pink or red in color. Treatment of acidic solutions containing Pm ions with ammonia results in a gelatinous light-brown sediment of hydroxide, Pm(OH), which is insoluble in water. When dissolved in hydrochloric acid, a water-soluble yellow salt, PmCl, is produced; similarly, when dissolved in nitric acid, a nitrate results, Pm(NO). The latter is also well-soluble; when dried, it forms pink crystals, similar to Nd(NO). The electron configuration for Pm is [Xe] 4f, and the color of the ion is pink. The ground state term symbol is I. The sulfate is slightly soluble, like the other cerium group sulfates. Cell parameters have been calculated for its octahydrate; they lead to conclusion that the density of Pm(SO)·8 HO is 2.86 g/cm. The oxalate, Pm(CO)·10 HO, has the lowest solubility of all lanthanide oxalates.\n\nUnlike the nitrate, the oxide is similar to the corresponding samarium salt and not the neodymium salt. As-synthesized, e.g. by heating the oxalate, it is a white or lavender-colored powder with disordered structure. This powder crystallizes in a cubic lattice upon heating to 600 °C. Further annealing at 800 °C and then at 1750 °C irreversibly transforms it to a monoclinic and hexagonal phases, respectively, and the last two phases can be interconverted by adjusting the annealing time and temperature.\n\nPromethium forms only one stable oxidation state, +3, in the form of ions; this is in line with other lanthanides. According to its position in the periodic table, the element cannot be expected to form stable +4 or +2 oxidation states; treating chemical compounds containing Pm ions with strong oxidizing or reducing agents showed that the ion is not easily oxidized or reduced.\n\nPromethium is the only lanthanide and one of only two elements among the first 83 that has no stable (or even long-lived) isotopes. This is a result of a rarely occurring effect of the liquid drop model and stabilities of neighbor element isotopes; it is also the least stable element of the first 84. The primary decay products are neodymium and samarium isotopes (promethium-146 decays to both, the lighter isotopes generally to neodymium via positron decay and electron capture, and the heavier isotopes to samarium via beta decay). Promethium nuclear isomers may decay to other promethium isotopes and one isotope (Pm) has a very rare alpha decay mode to stable praseodymium-141.\n\nThe most stable isotope of the element is promethium-145, which has a specific activity of and a half-life of 17.7 years via electron capture. Because it has 84 neutrons (two more than 82, which is a magic number which corresponds to a stable neutron configuration), it may emit an alpha particle (which has 2 neutrons) to form praseodymium-141 with 82 neutrons. Thus it is the only promethium isotope with an experimentally observed alpha decay. Its partial half-life for alpha decay is about 6.3 years, and the relative probability for a Pm nucleus to decay in this way is 2.8 %. Several other promethium isotopes (Pm, Pm, Pm etc.) also have a positive energy release for alpha decay; their alpha decays are predicted to occur but have not been observed.\n\nThe element also has 18 nuclear isomers, with mass numbers of 133 to 142, 144, 148, 149, 152, and 154 (some mass numbers have more than one isomer). The most stable of them is promethium-148m, with a half-life of 43.1 days; this is longer than the half-lives of the ground states of all promethium isotopes, except for promethium-143 to 147. In fact, promethium-148m has a longer half-life than its ground state, promethium-148.\n\nIn 1934, Willard Libby reported that he had found weak beta activity in pure neodymium, which was attributed to a half-life over 10 years. Almost 20 years later, it was claimed that the element occurs in natural neodymium in equilibrium in quantities below 10 grams of promethium per one gram of neodymium. However, these observations were disproved by newer investigations, because for all seven naturally occurring neodymium isotopes, any single beta decays (which can produce promethium isotopes) are forbidden by energy conservation. In particular, careful measurements of atomic masses show that the mass difference Nd-Pm is negative (−87 keV), which absolutely prevents the single beta decay of Nd to Pm. \n\nIn 1965 Olavi Erämetsä separated out traces of Pm from a rare earth concentrate purified from apatite, resulting in an upper limit of 10 for the abundance of promethium in nature; this may have been produced by the natural nuclear fission of uranium, or by cosmic ray spallation of Nd.\n\nBoth isotopes of natural europium have larger mass excesses than sums of those of their potential alpha daughters plus that of an alpha particle; therefore, they (stable in practice) may alpha decay to promethium. Research at Laboratori Nazionali del Gran Sasso showed that europium-151 experimentally decays to promethium-147 with the half-life of 5 years. It has been shown that europium is \"responsible\" for about 12 grams of promethium in the Earth's crust. Alpha decays for europium-153 have not been found yet, and its theoretically calculated half-life is so high (due to low energy of decay) that this process will probably not be observed in the near future.\n\nFinally, promethium can be formed in nature as a product of spontaneous fission of uranium-238. Only trace amounts can be found in naturally occurring ores: a sample of pitchblende has been found to contain promethium at a concentration of four parts per quintillion (4) by mass. Uranium is thus \"responsible\" for 560 g of promethium in Earth's crust.\n\nPromethium has also been identified in the spectrum of the star HR 465 in Andromeda; it also has been found in HD 101065 (Przybylski's star) and HD 965. Because of the short half-life of promethium isotopes, they should be formed near the surface of those stars.\n\nIn 1902, Czech chemist Bohuslav Brauner found out that the differences in properties between neodymium and samarium were the largest between any two consecutive lanthanides in the sequence then known; as a conclusion, he suggested there was an element with intermediate properties between them. This prediction was supported in 1914 by Henry Moseley who, having discovered that atomic number was an experimentally measurable property of elements, found that a few atomic numbers had no known corresponding elements: the gaps were 43, 61, 72, 75, 85, and 87. With the knowledge of a gap in the periodic table several groups started to search for the predicted element among other rare earths in the natural environment.\n\nThe first claim of a discovery was published by Luigi Rolla and Lorenzo Fernandes of Florence, Italy. After separating a mixture of a few rare earth elements nitrate concentrate from the Brazilian mineral monazite by fractionated crystallization, they yielded a solution containing mostly samarium. This solution gave x-ray spectra attributed to samarium and element 61. In honor of their city, they named element 61 \"florentium\". The results were published in 1926, but the scientists claimed that the experiments were done in 1924. Also in 1926, a group of scientists from the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, Smith Hopkins and Len Yntema published the discovery of element 61. They named it \"illinium,\" after the university. Both of these reported discoveries were shown to be erroneous because the spectrum line that \"corresponded\" to element 61 was identical to that of didymium; the lines thought to belong to element 61 turned out to belong to a few impurities (barium, chromium, and platinum).\n\nIn 1934, Josef Mattauch finally formulated the isobar rule. One of the indirect consequences of this rule was that element 61 was unable to form stable isotopes. From 1938, a nuclear experiment was conducted by H. B. Law \"et al.\" at Ohio State University. Nuclides were produced in 1941 which were not radioisotopes of neodymium or samarium, and the name \"cyclonium\" was proposed, but there was a lack of chemical proof that element 61 was produced and the discovery not largely recognized.\n\nPromethium was first produced and characterized at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (Clinton Laboratories at that time) in 1945 by Jacob A. Marinsky, Lawrence E. Glendenin and Charles D. Coryell by separation and analysis of the fission products of uranium fuel irradiated in the graphite reactor; however, being too busy with military-related research during World War II, they did not announce their discovery until 1947. The original proposed name was \"clintonium\", after the laboratory where the work was conducted; however, the name \"prometheum\" was suggested by Grace Mary Coryell, the wife of one of the discoverers. It is derived from Prometheus, the Titan in Greek mythology who stole fire from Mount Olympus and brought it down to humans and symbolizes \"both the daring and the possible misuse of the mankind intellect\". The spelling was then changed to \"promethium,\" as this was in accordance with most other metals.\n\nIn 1963, promethium(III) fluoride was used to make promethium metal. Provisionally purified from impurities of samarium, neodymium, and americium, it was put into a tantalum crucible which was located in another tantalum crucible; the outer crucible contained lithium metal (10 times excess compared to promethium). After creating a vacuum, the chemicals were mixed to produce promethium metal:\n\nThe promethium sample produced was used to measure a few of the metal's properties, such as its melting point.\n\nIn 1963, ion-exchange methods were used at ORNL to prepare about ten grams of promethium from nuclear reactor fuel processing wastes.\n\nToday, promethium is still recovered from the byproducts of uranium fission; it can also be produced by bombarding Nd with neutrons, turning it into Nd which decays into Pm through beta decay with a half-life of 11 days.\n\nThe production methods for different isotopes vary, and only those for promethium-147 are given because it is the only isotope with industrial applications. Promethium-147 is produced in large quantities (compared to other isotopes) by bombarding uranium-235 with thermal neutrons. The output is relatively high, at 2.6% of the total product. Another way to produce promethium-147 is via neodymium-147, which decays to promethium-147 with a short half-life. Neodymium-147 can be obtained either by bombarding enriched neodymium-146 with thermal neutrons or by bombarding a uranium carbide target with energetic protons in a particle accelerator. Another method is to bombard uranium-238 with fast neutrons to cause fast fission, which, among multiple reaction products, creates promethium-147.\n\nAs early as the 1960s, Oak Ridge National Laboratory could produce 650 grams of promethium per year and was the world's only large-volume synthesis facility. Gram-scale production of promethium has been discontinued in the U.S. in the early 1980s, but will possibly be resumed after 2010 at the High Flux Isotope Reactor. Currently, Russia is the only country producing promethium-147 on a relatively large scale.\n\nMost promethium is used only for research purposes, except for promethium-147, which can be found outside laboratories. It is obtained as the oxide or chloride, in milligram quantities. This isotope does not emit gamma rays, and its radiation has a relatively small penetration depth in matter and a relatively long half-life.\n\nSome signal lights use a luminous paint, containing a phosphor that absorbs the beta radiation emitted by promethium-147 and emits light. This isotope does not cause aging of the phosphor, as alpha emitters do, and therefore the light emission is stable for a few years. Originally, radium-226 was used for the purpose, but it was later replaced by promethium-147 and tritium (hydrogen-3). Promethium may be favored over tritium for nuclear safety reasons.\n\nIn atomic batteries, the beta particles emitted by promethium-147 are converted into electric current by sandwiching a small promethium source between two semiconductor plates. These batteries have a useful lifetime of about five years. The first promethium-based battery was assembled in 1964 and generated \"a few milliwatts of power from a volume of about 2 cubic inches, including shielding\".\n\nPromethium is also used to measure the thickness of materials by evaluating the amount of radiation from a promethium source that passes through the sample. It has possible future uses in portable X-ray sources, and as auxiliary heat or power sources for space probes and satellites (although the alpha emitter plutonium-238 has become standard for most space-exploration-related uses).\n\nThe element, like other lanthanides, has no biological role. Promethium-147 can emit X-rays during its beta decay, which are dangerous for all lifeforms. Interactions with tiny quantities of promethium-147 are not hazardous if certain precautions are observed. In general, gloves, footwear covers, safety glasses, and an outer layer of easily removed protective clothing should be used.\n\nIt is not known what human organs are affected by interaction with promethium; a possible candidate is the bone tissues. Sealed promethium-147 is not dangerous. However, if the packaging is damaged, then promethium becomes dangerous to the environment and humans. If radioactive contamination is found, the contaminated area should be washed with water and soap, but, even though promethium mainly affects the skin, the skin should not be abraded. If a promethium leak is found, the area should be identified as hazardous and evacuated, and emergency services must be contacted. No dangers from promethium aside from the radioactivity are known.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28506066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28506066", "title": "Punjab State Power Corporation", "text": "Punjab State Power Corporation\n\nPunjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) is the electricity generating and distributing company of the Government of Punjab state in India.\n\nPSPCL was incorporated as company on 16-04-2010 and was given the responsibility of operating and maintenance of State's own generating projects and distribution system. The business of Generation of power of erstwhile PSEB was transferred to PSPCL.\n\nAll the power Stations operated at their best ever plant load factor since their installation. \nkdfsfds\nNet Power generated during 2008-09 is 37222 Million units, which is more than 2006-07 by 2238 Million Units resulting of 6.40% increase in two years.\nThe 1980 MW (3x660) Talwandi Sabo Power Project awarded to M/s Sterlite Energy Ltd. Mumbai on 4.7.08 and PPA signed on 1.9.08.\nPower purchase agreement with M/S GVK for installing 2x270 MW thermal power station at Goindwal Sahib signed on 26 May 2009. The foundation stone has been laid and the company has started the construction.\n\n4.76 lakh new connections including 61,849 No. tubewell connections were released during 2007-09.\n24 Hrs. Urban pattern supply made available to 12428 villages and 6158 Deras/ Dhanies with 5 or more houses.\nTo help SC & BPL consumers, free monthly consumption up to 200 units allowed for connected load of 1000 watts w.e.f. 12-10-06 instead of earlier 500 watts.\nStrict measures have been taken to reduce power theft. Disciplinary action taken against the erring employees and 5 numbers Anti Power Theft Police Stations have been set up.\nNew technologies like electronic meters, remote control of transformers, remote meter reading and HVDS system for AP/ Industries introduced.\n20.29 lakh meters out of 55.98 lakh General/ Industrial Consumers shifted out of their premises as on 31.3.09 to curb theft of energy.\nAll these measures have helped in reducing losses by 4% from 23.92% (2006–07) to 19.91% (2008–09) / which resulted in substantial increase in revenue.\nDuring 2007-09, 62 numbers New Grid substations erected and capacity at 132 number Grid substations augmented besides addition of 1070 circuit km. Transmission line and 149 MVAR shunt capacitors to State Grid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5593297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5593297", "title": "SOCM", "text": "SOCM\n\nSOCM stands for Statewide Organizing for Community eMpowerment (previously Save Our Cumberland Mountains) and is a Tennessee community organizing group best known for its opposition to strip mining. It was founded in 1972 to oppose what the organization said were unfair imbalances in property taxes, described by a group of Vanderbilt University students, between small and large landowners in the rural coal mining counties of East Tennessee. SOCM's focus later grew beyond the Cumberland Plateau and Cumberland Mountains regions, to include all of Tennessee. In 2008, SOCM changed its name from Save Our Cumberland Mountains to Statewide Organizing for Community eMpowerment to reflect its growing work in social, economic, and environmental justice. SOCM now has chapters in the cities of Jackson, Tennessee and Knoxville, and Bedford County, Tennessee, Maury County, Tennessee, Rutherford County, Tennessee and Cumberland County, Tennessee. The Roaring River Chapter is made up of residents of Putnam County, Tennessee, Jackson County, Tennessee, and Overton County, Tennessee.\n\nJ. W. Bradley of Petros, Tennessee is a cofounder and longtime leader of the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "13007608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13007608", "title": "San Justo tornado", "text": "San Justo tornado\n\nThe San Justo tornado was a powerful tornado which struck San Justo, a town in the province of Santa Fe, Argentina, on January 10, 1973. At least 63 people were reported dead and 350 were reported injured as it cut a 300 yard wide swath through the town. It was the most violent tornado ever recorded in South America, and also the entire Southern Hemisphere.\nMultiple factories and upwards of 500 homes were destroyed or damaged, and some homes were said to have vanished with little or no trace. Vehicles were thrown hundreds of yards and mangled beyond recognition, and grass was reportedly ripped from the ground. A newspaper image showed a vehicle motor that was embedded into a concrete wall by the tornado. A tractor was found in a wooded area 500 meters away from the dealership where it originated, and a pond outside of town was reportedly sucked dry by the tornado. The tornado is widely considered to have been an F5 on the Fujita Scale. This tornado was the most violent ever reported in Argentina and Southern Hemisphere and had an economic cost of about $60,000,It was also the deadliest tornado in Argentina's history.\n"}
{"id": "15690323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15690323", "title": "Transition temperature", "text": "Transition temperature\n\nTransition temperature is the temperature at which a material changes from one crystal state (allotrope) to another. More formally, it is the temperature at which two crystalline forms of a substance can co-exist in equilibrium. For example, when rhombic sulfur is heated above 95.6 °C it changes form into monoclinic sulfur. When cooled below 95.6 °C it reverts to rhombic sulfur. At 95.6 °C the two forms can co-exist.\n\nAnother example is tin, which transitions from a cubic shape below 13.2 °C to a tetragonal shape above that temperature.\n\nIn the case of ferroelectric or ferromagnetic crystals a transition temperature may be known as the Curie temperature.\n"}
{"id": "24228936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24228936", "title": "Ultra-high-voltage electricity transmission in China", "text": "Ultra-high-voltage electricity transmission in China\n\nUltrahigh-voltage (UHV) electricity transmission has been used in China since 2009 to transmit both AC and DC electricity over long distances separating China's energy resources and consumers. Expansion of both AC and DC capacity continues in order to match generation to consumption demands while minimizing transmission losses. Decarbonization improvements will result from the replacement of lower efficiency generation, located near the coast, by more modern high efficiency generation with less pollution near the energy resources.\n\nSince 2004, electricity consumption in China has been growing at an unprecedented rate due to the rapid growth of industrial sectors. Serious supply shortage during 2005 had impacted the operation of many Chinese companies. Since then, China has very aggressively invested in electricity supply in order to fulfill the demand from industries and hence secure economic growth. Installed generation capacity has run from 443 GW at end of 2004 to 793 GW at the end of 2008. The increment in these four years is equivalent to approximately one-third of the total capacity of the USA, or 1.4 times the total capacity of Japan. During the same period of time, power consumption has also risen from 2,197 TWh to 3,426 TWh.\nChina's electricity consumption is expected to reach 6,800–6,900 TWh by 2018 from 4,690 TWh in 2011, with installed capacity reaching 1,463 GW from 1,056 GW in 2011, of which 342 GW is hydropower, 928 GW coal-fired, 100 GW wind, 43GW nuclear, and 40GW natural gas. China is the world's largest consuming nation of electricity in 2011.\n\nOn the transmission and distribution side, the country has focused on expanding T&D capacity and reducing losses by:\n\nUHV transmission and a number of UHVAC circuits have already been constructed in different parts of the world. For example, 2,362 km of 1,150 kV circuits were built in the former USSR, and 427 km of 1,000 kV AC circuits have been developed in Japan (Kita-Iwaki powerline). Experimental lines of various scales are also found in many countries. However, most of these lines are currently operating at lower voltage due to insufficient power demand or other reasons. There are fewer examples of UHVDC. Although there are plenty of ±500 kV (or below) circuits around the world, the only operative circuits above this threshold are the Hydro-Québec's electricity transmission system at 735 kV AC (since 1965, 11 422 km long in 2018) and Itaipu ±600 kV project in Brazil.\nIn Russia, construction work on a 2400 km long bipolar ±750 kV DC line, the HVDC Ekibastuz–Centre started in 1978 but it was never finished. In USA at the beginning of the 1970s a 1333 kV powerline was planned from Celilo Converter Station to Hoover Dam. For this purpose a short experimental powerline near Celilo Converter Station was built, but the line to Hoover Dam was never built.\n\nChina's decision to go for UHV transmission is based on the fact that energy resources are far away from the load centers. The majority of the hydropower resources are in the west, and coal is in the northwest, but huge loadings are in the east and south. To reduce transmission losses to a manageable level, UHV transmission is a logical choice. As the State Grid Corporation of China announced at the 2009 International Conference on UHV Power Transmission in Beijing, China will invest RMB 600 billion (approximately US$88 billion) into UHV development between now and 2020.\n\nImplementation of the UHV grid enables the construction of newer, cleaner, more efficient power generation plants far from population centers. Older power plants along the coast will be retired. This will lower the total current amount of pollution, as well as the pollution felt by citizens within urban dwellings. The use of large central power plants providing electric heating are also less polluting than individual boilers used for winter heating in many northern households. The UHV grid will aid China's plan of electrification and decarbonization, and enable integration of renewable energy by removing the transmission bottleneck that is currently limiting expansions in wind and solar generation capacity whilst further developing the market for long-range electric vehicles in China.\n\nAs of 2016, the operational UHV circuits are:\nThe under-construction/In preparation UHV lines are:\n\nThere has been controversy over UHV since 2004 when the State Grid Corporation of China proposed the idea of UHV construction. The controversy has been focused on UHVAC while the idea of building UHVDC has been widely accepted.\nThe most debated issues are the four listed below.\n\nAlso, the huge amount of investment in UHV transmission may draw investment away from energy efficiency programs and power grid distribution reconstruction (which is argued to be the most vulnerable part of whole power grid).\n\nHowever, the construction of UHV may boost the development of renewable energy in China, especially wind energy in west China (Neimenggu and Xinjiang area).\n\nThere is also controversy over whether the construction proposed by State Grid Corporation of China is a strategy to be more monopolistic and fight against the power grid reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9901908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9901908", "title": "Vertical axis wind turbine", "text": "Vertical axis wind turbine\n\nA vertical-axis wind turbines (VAWT) is a type of wind turbine where the main rotor shaft is set transverse to the wind (but not necessarily vertically) while the main components are located at the base of the turbine. This arrangement allows the generator and gearbox to be located close to the ground, facilitating service and repair. VAWTs do not need to be pointed into the wind, which removes the need for wind-sensing and orientation mechanisms. Major drawbacks for the early designs (Savonius, Darrieus and giromill) included the significant torque variation or \"ripple\" during each revolution, and the large bending moments on the blades. Later designs addressed the torque ripple issue by sweeping the blades helically (Gorlov type).\n\nA vertical axis wind turbine has its axis perpendicular to the wind streamlines and vertical to the ground. A more general term that includes this option is \"transverse axis wind turbine\" or \"cross-flow wind turbine.\" For example, the original Darrieus patent, US Patent 1835018, includes both options.\n\nDrag-type VAWTs such as the Savonius rotor typically operate at lower tipspeed ratios than lift-based VAWTs such as Darrieus rotors and cycloturbines.\n\nThe forces and the velocities acting in a Darrieus turbine are depicted in figure 1. The resultant velocity vector, formula_1, is the vectorial sum of the undisturbed upstream air velocity, formula_2, and the velocity vector of the advancing blade, formula_3.\n\nformula_4\n\nThus the oncoming fluid velocity varies during each cycle. Maximum velocity is found for formula_5 and the minimum is found for formula_6, where formula_7 is the azimuthal or orbital blade position. The angle of attack, formula_8, is the angle between the oncoming air speed, W, and the blade's chord. The resultant airflow creates a varying, positive angle of attack to the blade in the upstream zone of the machine, switching sign in the downstream zone of the machine.\n\nIt follows from geometric considerations of angular velocity as seen in the accompanying figure that: \n\nformula_9\n\nand:\n\nformula_10\n\nSolving for the relative velocity as the resultant of the tangential and normal components yields:\n\nformula_11 \n\nThus, combining the above with the definitions for the tip speed ratio formula_12 yields the following expression for the resultant velocity:\n\nformula_13 \n\nAngle of attack is solved as:\n\nformula_14\n\nWhich when substituting the above yields:\n\nformula_15\nThe resultant aerodynamic force is resolved either into lift (L) - drag (D) components or normal (N) - tangential (T) components. The forces are considered acting at the quarter-chord point, and the pitching moment is determined to resolve the aerodynamic forces. The aeronautical terms \"lift\" and \"drag\" refer to the forces across (lift) and along (drag) the approaching net relative airflow. The tangential force acts along the blade's velocity, pulling the blade around, and the normal force acts radially, pushing against the shaft bearings. The lift and the drag force are useful when dealing with the aerodynamic forces around the blade such as dynamic stall, boundary layer etc.; while when dealing with global performance, fatigue loads, etc., it is more convenient to have a normal-tangential frame. The lift and the drag coefficients are usually normalised by the dynamic pressure of the relative airflow, while the normal and tangential coefficients are usually normalised by the dynamic pressure of undisturbed upstream fluid velocity.\n"}
{"id": "10704579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10704579", "title": "Virginia Petroleum Convenience and Grocery Association", "text": "Virginia Petroleum Convenience and Grocery Association\n\nThe Virginia Petroleum Convenience and Grocery Association (VPCGA) is a statewide trade association formed in 1948 providing advocacy, educational and networking services to its membership.\n\nUntil 1999, the Association (www.vpcga.com) was known as the Virginia Petroleum Jobbers Association. As the traditional jobber (wholesaler) evolved more into direct sales to consumers so did the Association. VPCGA now has over 600 members, who in turn own and operate more than 4000 retail locations across Virginia. Members operate gasoline/convenience locations, grocery stores, travel centers, sell home heating oil, lubricants and supply petroleum products to the motoring public, agriculture and maritime industries and the armed forces.\n\nThe Association is governed by a 15-member Board of Directors, and has had just three Presidents since its founding. The current President, Michael O'Connor, CAE, has more than 25 years of association management experience and has led the Association as President and Chief Executive Officer since 2000.\n\nIn addition to representing the interests of the membership at the Virginia General Assembly and various regulatory agencies, the Association publishes regular industry updates containing important compliance information on pending issues, conducts compliance training seminars to provide hands on training to employees on technical aspects of the petroleum business. The association's motto is \"Virginia Neighbors Serving Neighbors\". VPCGA works closely with the Petroleum Marketers Association of America (www.pmaa.org) and the National Association of Convenience Stores (www.nacsonline.com) on Federal Issues\n\nThe Association office is located at 7275 Glen Forest Drive Suite 204 Richmond, Virginia 23226\n\n"}
{"id": "38557335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38557335", "title": "Walddrehna Solar Park", "text": "Walddrehna Solar Park\n\nThe Walddrehna Solar Park is a 52.284 MW photovoltaic power station, which is located in Walddrehna, Brandenburg, Germany, on a former military base.\n\n"}
{"id": "4023913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4023913", "title": "William Nordhaus", "text": "William Nordhaus\n\nWilliam Dawbney Nordhaus (born May 31, 1941) is an American economist and Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale University, best known for his work in economic modelling and climate change. He is one of the laureates of the 2018 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. Nordhaus received the prize \"for integrating climate change into long-run macroeconomic analysis\".\n\nNordhaus was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico, the son of Virginia (Riggs) and Robert J. Nordhaus, who co-founded the Sandia Peak Tramway. Robert J. Nordhaus was from a German Jewish family — his father Max Nordhaus (1865–1936) immigrated from Paderborn in 1883 and was a manager of The Charles Ilfeld Company branch in Albuquerque.\n\nNordhaus graduated from Phillips Academy in Andover and subsequently received his BA and MA from Yale in 1963 and 1973, respectively, where he was a member of Skull and Bones. He also holds a Certificat from the Institut d'Etudes Politiques (1962) and a PhD from MIT (1967). He was a Visiting Fellow of Clare Hall, Cambridge in 1970-1971. He has been a member of the faculty at Yale since 1967, in both the Economics department and the School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, and has also served as its Provost from 1986–1988 and its Vice President for Finance and Administration from 1992–1993. His tenure as provost was among the shortest in the university's history. He has been on the Brookings Panel on Economic Activity since 1972. During the Carter administration, from 1977–1979, Nordhaus was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Nordhaus served as the chairman of the Board of Directors of the Boston Federal Reserve Bank between 2014 and 2015.\n\nNordhaus lives in New Haven, Connecticut, with his wife, Barbara, a social worker in the Yale Child Study Center.\n\nNordhaus is the author or editor of over 20 books. He is the co-author of the textbook \"Economics\", the original editions of which were written by fellow Nobel Laureate Paul Samuelson. The book is currently in its 19th edition and has been translated into at least 17 other languages.\n\nHe has also written several books on global warming and climate change, one of his primary areas of research. Those books include \"Managing the Global Commons: The Economics of Climate Change\" (1994), which won the 2006 Award for “Publication of Enduring Quality” from the Association of Environmental and Resource Economics. Another book, with Joseph Boyer, is \"Warming the World: Economic Models of Global Warming\" (2000). His most recent book is \"The Climate Casino: Risk, Uncertainty, and Economics for a Warming World\".\n\nIn 1972 Nordhaus, along with fellow Yale economics professor James Tobin, published \"Is Growth Obsolete?\", an article that introduced the Measure of Economic Welfare (Index of Sustainable Economic Welfare) as the first model for economic sustainability assessment.\n\nNordhaus is also known for his critique on current measures of national income. He wrote, \"If we are to obtain accurate estimates of the growth of real incomes over the last century, we must somehow construct price indexes that account for the vast changes in the quality and range of goods and services that we consume, that somehow compare the services of horse with automobile, of Pony Express with facsimile machine, of carbon paper with photocopier, of dark and lonely nights with nights spent watching television, and of brain surgery with magnetic resonance imaging\" (1997, 30).\n\nPalda summarizes the importance of Nordhaus' insight as follows: \"The practical lesson to be drawn from this fascinating study of lighting is that the way we measure the consumer price index is severely flawed. Instead of putting goods and their prices directly into the index we should reduce all goods to their constituent characteristics. Then we should evaluate how these goods can best be combined to minimize the cost of consuming these characteristics. Such an approach would allow us to include new goods in the consumer price index without worrying about whether the index of today is comparable to that of ten years ago when the good did not exist. Such an approach would also allow governments to more precisely calculate the rate at which welfare and other forms of aid should be increased. At present such calculations tend to overestimate the cost of living because they do not take into account the manner in which increases in quality reduce the monetary cost of maintaining a certain standard of living.\"\n\nNordhaus has written on the economics of climate change. He is the developer of the DICE and RICE models, integrated assessment models of the interplay between economics, energy use, and climate change.\n\n\"A Question of Balance: Weighing the Options on Global Warming Policies\" was published by Yale University Press on June 24, 2008.\n\nIn \"Reflections on the Economics of Climate Change\" (1993), he states: \"Mankind is playing dice with the natural environment through a multitude of interventions – injecting into the atmosphere trace gases like the greenhouse gases or ozone-depleting chemicals, engineering massive land-use changes such as deforestation, depleting multitudes of species in their natural habitats even while creating transgenic ones in the laboratory, and accumulating sufficient nuclear weapons to destroy human civilizations.\" Under the climate change models he has developed, in general those sectors of the economy that depend heavily on unmanaged ecosystems – that is, are heavily dependent upon naturally occurring rainfall, runoff, or temperatures – will be most sensitive to climate change. Agriculture, forestry, outdoor recreation, and coastal activities fall in this category.\" Nordhaus takes seriously the potentially catastrophic impacts of climate change.\n\nNordhaus, who has done several studies on the economics of global warming, criticized the Stern Review for its use of a low discount rate:\nIn 2013, Nordhaus chaired a committee of the National Research Council that produced a report discounting the impact of fossil fuel subsidies on greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nHowever, in a December 2016 discussion paper for the Cowles Foundation, his research using the updated DICE model \"...confirms past estimates of likely rapid climate change over the next century if there are not major climate-change policies. It suggests that it will be extremely difficult to achieve the 2°C target of international agreements even if ambitious policies are introduced in the near term. The required carbon price needed to achieve current targets has risen over time as policies have been delayed.\"\n\nAmong many honors, he is a Member of the United States National Academy of Sciences and an Elected Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He has been a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences since 1999.\n\nIn 2004, Nordhaus was designated a Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic Association (AEA), along with George P. Shultz and William A. Brock. The accompanying AEA statement referred to his \"knack for asking large questions about the measurement of economic growth and well-being, and addressing them with simple but creative insights,\" among them, his pioneering work on the political business cycle, ways of using national income accounts data to devise economic measures reflecting better health, increases in leisure and life expectancy, and \"constructing integrated economic and scientific models to determine the efficient path for coping with climate change\". In 2013, Nordhaus became president-elect of the AEA, and served as the association's president between 2014 and 2015.\n\nNordhaus was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 2018. He shared the award with Paul Romer. In detailing its reasons for giving the prize to Nordhaus, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences specifically recognized his efforts to develop \"an \"integrated assessment model\", i.e. a quantitative model that describes the global interplay between the economy and the climate. His model integrates theories and empirical results from physics, chemistry and economics. Nordhaus’ model is now widely spread and is used to simulate how the economy and the climate co-evolve.\"\n\nMany of the news outlets that reported on Nordhaus's prize noted that he was in the advance wave of economists who embraced a carbon tax as a preferred method of carbon pricing. Some climate scientists and commentators were disappointed with the Nobel Prize going to Nordhaus due to his embrace of substantially lower carbon taxes per ton than most scientists, along with his past history of minimal carbon taxes.\n\n"}
{"id": "31334578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31334578", "title": "Wind turbines on public display", "text": "Wind turbines on public display\n\nThe great majority of wind turbines around the world belong to individuals or corporations who use them to generate electric power or to perform mechanical work. As such, wind turbines are primarily designed to be working devices. However, the large size and height above surroundings of modern industrial wind turbines, combined with their moving rotors, often makes them among the most conspicuous objects in their areas. A few localities have exploited the attention-getting nature of wind turbines by placing them on public display, either with visitor centers on their bases, or with viewing areas farther away. The wind turbines themselves are generally of conventional horizontal-axis, three-bladed design, and generate power to feed electrical grids, but they also serve the unconventional roles of technology demonstration, public relations, and education.\n\n\nSome wind turbines on public display go one further, with observation decks beneath their nacelles. The observation decks are accessed with stairs inside the tower.\n"}
