{"id": "26752151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26752151", "title": "1994 Progress Party national convention", "text": "1994 Progress Party national convention\n\nThe 1994 national convention of the Progress Party of Norway was held from 15 April to 17 April at the hotel Bolkesjø Turisthotell in Bolkesjø, Telemark. It was originally set up to be a normal convention with 157 delegates in a non-election year, but because of mounting antagonism between a traditionalist and a libertarian faction, it became clear some months before the conventions that personal positions could be at stake. The party leader seat, held by Carl I. Hagen since 1978, was up for re-election. The deputy leaders Ellen Wibe and Hans J. Røsjorde was not up for election until 1995, but there were talks about forming a motion of no confidence against Wibe. The political disagreements roughly corresponded to a cleavage between two factions.\n\nThe traditionalist (also called populist) faction was represented by party leader Carl I. Hagen, Jan Simonsen, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Vidar Kleppe, Øystein Hedstrøm, Lodve Solholm and Eli Hagen. The libertarians of the party were first and foremost the deputy leader Ellen Wibe and four members of Parliament (by some called the \"band of four\"), Ellen Christine Christiansen, Oscar D. Hillgaar, Roy N. Wetterstad and Stephen Bråthen. Buskerud county leader Geir Thoresen, Akershus county leader Per Aage Pleym Christensen and Youth of the Progress Party leader Lars Erik Grønntun were other prominent libertarians. Both during the preceding months and on the opening day, resolutions were passed which ensured full dominance for Carl I. Hagen and the policies of his faction. Wibe resigned as deputy leader, and Carl I. Hagen's men (there were no women left in the leadership) also dominated the new central committee. The personal issues totally overshadowed the regular political debate, and as early as on 17 April the convention was famously dubbed as the \"national convention at Dolkesjø\"—derived from \"dolk\", the Norwegian word for dagger.\n\nIn April and May, the Progress Party lost several members, including former members of Parliament and four current members of Parliament. In July the Youth of the Progress Party dissolved itself in protest of the events; however, a new, loyal organization immediately surfaced. Some of the withdrawn members joined the Conservative Party of Norway, others joined an entirely new organization (originally with the narrow intention to support the four parliamentarians), the quasi-political party Free Democrats.\n\nThe 1993 national convention was harmonic. The newspaper \"Verdens Gang\" remarked that both \"the libertarians and the populists cheered\" after Carl I. Hagen's speeches. Jan Simonsen stepped down as deputy leader, and Ellen Wibe succeeded him, being one of the very few women in the Progress Party's leadership.\n\nThere were some tensions, however. Finn Thoresen left the party in November 1992, and later formed New Future Coalition Party. More importantly, because of disagreements in 1992 and 1993, pertaining to libertarianism in general and especially the European Union question, several libertarians that had entered the Progress Party in the 1980s ceased their activity in the party. MPs Tor Mikkel Wara and Petter Bjørheim announced their intentions to leave politics after the end of their terms, as did Pål Atle Skjervengen. Jan Erik Fåne tried to win renomination, but the nomination meeting in Akershus put traditionalist Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on top of the ballot. Fåne was offered the second spot, but pulled out. Eight months later it turned out that holding the second spot on the ballot did indeed give a Parliament seat.\n\nThe issue of libertarianism became more pressing in the campaign for the Norwegian parliamentary election, 1993, when Carl I. Hagen said to \"Verdens Gang\" that he did not support cutting the income tax. This was not in line with official party policy, and Hagen did not confer with the party, stating that \"I had to take an independent initiative\". Ellen Wibe openly criticized the statement, so did former MP and tax spokesperson Steinar Maribo. The tax statement was later seen as the most important factor contributing to the growing Hagen—liberalist schism. In the election the Progress Party won ten seats, down from 22 in the 1989 election.\n\nThe year 1994 started with annual conventions in each county, scheduled between 15 January and 6 April. These conventions elected delegates to the national convention. Tension had mounted between party leader Carl I. Hagen and other factions in the party. Parts of the central committee were skeptical to Hagen's position and policies. In addition, the youth wing, Youth of the Progress Party, had experienced disagreements with the Hagen-led Progress Party. The leader of the Youth of the Progress Party, Lars Erik Grønntun, had been on the verge of stepping down, but was persuaded around the end of 1993 to run for re-election. Before the county conventions, Grønntun stated a desire for an extraordinary meeting between the party and its youth wing, where he wanted to \"contribute to gathering the party and avoid any signs of a split\".\n\nOn 3 January, Hagen presented a ten-point plan of action. It was to be sent to each county chapter, and supported or rejected at the county conventions. On 7 January, Ellen Wibe presented a competing plan of action together with Oscar Hillgaar, Ellen Christine Christiansen and Geir Thoresen. Wibe's plan criticized the party's organizational culture, communication and institutions. In an interview, Wibe said that the party was too similar to a \"charismatic movement\", and that she wanted more power to the central board (). Øystein Hedstrøm announced a possible motion of no confidence regarding Ellen Wibe's position as deputy party leader, even though she was not really up for election until 1995. Wibe replied that her intention was to gather the party.\n\nIn the weekend from 4 to 6 February, county conventions were held in eleven counties, including Hagen's native Oslo, and Buskerud, Finnmark, Telemark, Vest-Agder, Hordaland, Nordland, Østfold, Troms, Nord-Trøndelag and Møre og Romsdal. Hagen belonged to the Oslo chapter, but the leader of the chapter, Peter N. Myhre, stated beforehand that Hagen's proposal would probably be rejected. It was speculated that rejections could come from the Buskerud and Finnmark's conventions as well. On 7 February, Hagen confirmed his leadership candidacy for the electoral committee.\n\nOn 19 February, the party held a national board () meeting at Bolkesjø. Here, Hagen proposed to close the debate on \"the party profile and choice of values\", a motion which gained support from 11 of the 24 board members. Ellen Wibe was among the minority, but conceded for the time being. That way, the question was put down before reaching the national convention.\n\nBy then, fifteen county conventions had signalized support for Hagen. After the last convention, it was clear that one-third of the delegates had expressed support of Wibe. Before the national convention, Hagen stated in an interview that one \"never can know what will happen during a Progress Party national convention\".\n\nThe next two months was a quiet period, and Øystein Hedstrøm stated that Wibe had taken a more responsible role, and thus there was no need for a motion of no confidence. News commentator Aslak Bonde remarked that the compromise reached by the factions was \"unclear\" and that antagonism could surface at the national convention. Wibe stated that her faction still intended to submit a resolution, a \"constructive\" proposal regarding tactical and organizational issues. Two days before the national convention, this resolution text had not been submitted to the county delegates. On the next day, the resolution text was commented in newspapers. \"Aftenposten\" remarked that Wibe's proposal was a \"thorough criticism of Carl I. Hagen\", among others in that it called for \"a renewal of the party\". It was signed by Oscar D. Hillgaar, Ellen Chr. Christiansen, Stephen Bråthen and Roy Wetterstad together with Wibe. \"Verdens Gang\" reported that Wibe would resign if not given a clear confidence as deputy leader. Wibe refuted this in \"Aftenposten\" on the next day; the newspaper believed that no party split would occur.\n\nAnother question of contention was the Progress Party's policy on Norwegian membership in the European Union. Reportedly, Carl I. Hagen wanted to postpone a decision on European Union policy from the national convention to a national board meeting in June. Others were not in favor of this. In an interview, Hagen stated that political parties should not agitate officially for one opinion or the other. He stated an indifference towards EU membership, and that if accessing the Union, Norway could always use a veto against EU policies when needed. Central board member Terje Sæbø submitted a competing resolution which opposed Norwegian membership.\n\nCarl I. Hagen held the opening speech of the convention. The speech was interrupted by extensive applause nineteen times. In it, he stated:\nOne of the first questions which was voted over, was the EU issue. Hagen formally submitted a proposal that the factual aspects of this issue should not be debated, and this was passed with 113 against 44 votes.\n\nThe EU vote directly caused Ellen Wibe to step down as deputy party leader, stating that she did \"not fully understand the new profile of the party\". If not stepping down, she would compromise \"values and principles\" that were essential in order to \"live with [her]self as a human being\". The announcement followed a private meeting between Wibe, Hagen, Røsjorde and Grønntun. Allegedly, Tor Mikkel Wara had advised her to resign. Ellen Christine Christiansen stepped down from her position in the central board, leaving Grønntun as the only clear libertarian. Grønntun stated that young party members would not tolerate to be \"stepped on and hectored with \" forever. More generally, the losing faction signalized a desire to continue promoting a liberal political profile, but in a less dramatic way.\n\nImmediately after Wibe's announcement, Jan Simonsen entered the chair and spoke strongly in favor of Hagen. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen applauded the end of \"women's bickering\" in the party leadership. Hagen's main resolution proposal, titled \"En fremtid med rot i fortiden\", was passed with 94 against 50 votes. He also received support for prioritizing anti-immigration higher in the following period. In his closing speech, Hagen stated that \"disloyal\" behavior would be considered as \"active withdrawal\" from the party. From the rostrum, the \"band of four\" was even asked to withdraw by several delegates, including Bjørn Andreassen, Gustav Hareide and Frøydis Lange. Andreassen exclaimed that \"we don't want you\", while Lange asked the band of four to form a new party called the Anarchist Party.\n\nThe central board held an extraordinary meeting on 17 April, during a pre-scheduled break in the convention. The central board of the Youth of the Progress Party also met, and agreed to support the \"band of four\". Their decision was not final until an extraordinary national board meeting could be held. It was speculated that members of the youth wing could leave the Progress Party en masse.\n\nAfter Wibe's resignation, Jan Simonsen was mentioned as an, albeit unlikely, candidate to succeed Wibe. Vidar Kleppe was also mentioned, while traditionalist John Alvheim was regarded by newspapers as a more likely candidate. On Saturday 16 April, it became clear that the vote stood between the Peter N. Myhre and Lodve Solholm. Myhre was the candidate put forward by the electoral committee, and had support among the libertarians, who did not field their own candidate. On 17 April, Solholm won the vote with 90 against 58; 8 ballots were blank. Carl I. Hagen was re-elected with 113 against 0 votes, and with 44 blank ballots. One libertarian, former MP Terje Nyberget, who described the convention as a \"genocide\", was elected to the national board.\n\nPolitical scientist Frank Aarebrot summed up the convention turmoil in the following way:\nAlready on the second day of the convention it was speculated that the \"band of four\", four libertarian-leaning members of Parliament, considered leaving the party. The four were Oscar D. Hillgaar, Roy Wetterstad, Ellen Christine Christiansen and Stephen Bråthen. The alternative to leaving the party was to mark themselves as dissenting party members. On the third day, news surfaced that the four had talked together. In the news program \"Dagsrevyen\" on 17 April, the band of four stated a desire to follow the 1993 party platform and not later resolutions. They were met by a demand from Carl I. Hagen that they continue on the \"terms laid down by the national convention or find something else to do\". He later added that if the band of four left the parliamentary group, they should \"scram\". To sum up, he said that the libertarians, which were known to be a minority, had gained too much influence, and was set back by the national convention. Øystein Hedstrøm demanded that the four leave the party. Because of the fierce personal antagonism at the convention, it was dubbed as the \"national convention at Dolkesjø\"—derived from \"dolk\", the Norwegian word for dagger.\n\nWibe encouraged people to stay in the Progress Party, although her active participation was over. Wetterstad stated in an interview that withdrawing his party membership was out of question, whereas Hillgaar was described as the least conciliatory. Hillgaar publicly lamented the \"Moscow processes\" of the 1994 national convention, and also the views on women and the \"extreme xenophobia\" which he felt was conveyed by the party program. The Progress Party county leader in Akershus, Per Aage Pleym Christensen, also reconsidered his position, leaving on 4 May.\n\nOscar Hillgaar left the party on 22 April. The other three libertarian parliamentarians postponed their decision, attending meetings with county leaders on 17 and 22 April. A leading figure in these talks was Henning Holstad from Oslo. Hagen replied that such talks had no grounds in the Progress Party by-laws. The meeting on 22 April went well for the three parliamentarians, but on 30 April the central committee met, and Øystein Hedstrøm put forward a proposal for a \"loyalty declaration\" to Hagen and the policies agreed to on the national convention. The proposal of a written declaration was not passed, but the central committee decided to demand loyalty. It also removed Lars Erik Grønntun from the executive board ().\n\nThe three parliamentarians finally left the party on 3 May. It was speculated that the deputy representatives for Bråthen and Wetterstad, Per Aage Pleym Christensen in Akershus and Geir Thoresen in Buskerud, would follow. Wetterstad drew the lines to Hagen's own withdrawal from the Anders Lange Party to form the short-lived Reform Party. Coincidentally, Hagen celebrated his 50th birthday on 6 May.\n\nWith four of ten having resigned from the parliamentary group, the Youth of the Progress Party was the next institution to experience turmoil. In May \"Verdens Gang\" announced that a forthcoming extraordinary national convention, spearheaded by Lars Erik Grønntun, would cut its ties with the Progress Party. The county leader in Oslo, Kim M. Høistad, formally proposed such a move. A straightforward dissolution of the Youth of the Progress Party would, however, most likely be followed by an immediate resurrection of the youth wing by Hagen-loyal members. Høistad's proposal was quickly co-signed by the Akershus branch, through its leader Trine Beate Samuelsen, and the Buskerud branch through its leader Per Magne Pedersen. The county chapters in Telemark, Aust-Agder, Vest-Agder, Oppland and Rogaland also voiced support. Hordaland had considered it. National deputy Ole Tom Nomeland was reluctant to comment, but at the national convention he called Ellen Wibe \"one of the finest people in Norwegian politics\". He was threatened with exclusion in June, ahead of the convention.\n\nTwo days before the national convention, the central committee convened and supported a dissolution of the Youth of the Progress Party. Lars Erik Grønntun even announced plans to cooperate more with the Norwegian Young Conservatives and the Young Liberals of Norway. Young Conservatives leader André Støylen was not negative.\n\nThe national convention agreed on dissolving the Youth of the Progress Party, with 63 against 21 votes. Hagen-loyal members summoned the Progress Party national board, which overruled the decision, allowing the remaining members to continue with Ulf Leirstein as leader.\n\nAlready before the national convention, the entire local party chapter in Osterøy was disestablished, but mainly due to the European Union controversy. The party had one representative in Osterøy municipal council at the time. One day after the national convention, delegate Kristian Eidesvik announced his withdrawal from the party, though he would sit through his tenure as member of Hordaland county council, which lasted until 1995. Eidesvik was a former member of the central board, and also a former deputy member of Parliament. The same day former MP and youth wing leader Pål Atle Skjervengen withdrew, commenting that the libertarians \"are asked by the party leadership to go to hell\". Skjervengen had been criticized by Carl I. Hagen from the rostrum at the national convention. Many years down the road Skjervengen joined the Conservative Party. Harald Eide Ellingsen, member of Stavanger city council, also left.\n\nIn Røyken municipal council, three of five representatives left the party, and a fourth, former MP Steinar Maribo, considered doing the same. As did Odd Magnar Brubæk, and former deputy MP Paal Bjørnestad. Terje Nyberget withdrew from the central committee in early May. The leader in the chapters in Finnmark and Nordkapp, Bjørn Magne Solvik, withdrew on 13 May. He cited a lack of liberalism, especially with regards to gay rights and immigration, as the reason. He was the only Progress Party member of a municipal council in Finnmark. Maribo withdrew some time in May. In late May, party secretary Hans Andreas Limi had counted 270 withdrawals, but also 76 new members. Municipal and county council member Liv Skrede left after the youth wing's national convention in July, so did Tor Mikkel Wara, Ellen Wibe, Jan Erik Fåne and Petter Bjørheim. Hordaland county council member Lene C. Møgster Løtvedt left and joined the Conservative Party in October.\n\nAlready during the national convention, the Youth of the Progress Party agreed to form an informal \"thinking group\" for disenfranchised members. Pål Atle Skjervengen was early in declaring an interest in forming a new, libertarian party. Those who resigned from the parliamentary group initially declared a lack of motivation to form a new party, and they also rejected the possibility of joining another party. They would instead vote according to the 1993 party program. Either way, in a parliamentary context they were known as independents for the remainder of their term. They did discuss the possibility of forming a \"support group\" which would help the four parliamentarians with practical issues. Odd Magnar Brubæk contributed advice on an informal basis from time to time. With some time passed since the Bolkesjø convention, it was decided to hold a formal conference to form a support group in mid-June. Organizations in Akershus and Buskerud already existed, under the names of \"Fridemokratene Akershus\" and \"Buskerud Liberale Forum\".\n\nAt the conference, the name Free Democrats () was adopted, and the band of four were chosen as leaders. Two hundred people joined, and it had four county leaders; Per Aage Pleym Christensen for Akershus, Geir Thoresen for Buskerud, the former city council secretary Roy Venge Tollefsen in Oslo and Thor Simonsen in Østfold. Wibe, on the other hand, left politics, as did Lars Erik Grønntun. The board members of Aust-Agder Youth of the Progress Party joined the Free Democrats in August. Ellen Christine Christiansen stated that \"time will tell whether we become a political party\". The issue was discussed again at a national convention in September 1994. The Vestfold chapter wanted to field in the Norwegian parliamentary election, 1997 with Oscar Hillgaar on the ballot, but this did not happen.\n\n"}
{"id": "33042907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33042907", "title": "Albanian National Democratic Movement", "text": "Albanian National Democratic Movement\n\nAlbanian National Democratic Movement, known by its Albanian initials as LNDSH or NDSH, became a near-total anti-communist resistance in Kosovo between 1945 and 1947. \n\nIt drew some of its members from among the functionaries of the former pro-Axis Albanian occupation regime, but since the insurrection became general, embracing almost the entire Kosovar Albanian population, numerous Kosovar Albanian Partisans were quickly drawn to participate in it. Indeed, NDSH represents a unique example of a near-unanimous popular insurrection in Europe, neglected by historians who do not know Albanian sources. It was a genuine collective rebellion encompassing Kosovo and western Macedonia.\n\nBetween 1945 and 1947, the NDSH organized three underground congresses. A debate took place in the movement, with one trend favoring relocation of the leaders to Greece and their opponents insisting that the fight continue within Kosovo. In the parlance of later revolutionary movements elsewhere in Europe, these could be described as ‘internal’ and ‘external’ factions. The main ‘internal’ leader, Ajet Gurguri, remained on the scene in Kosovo but was arrested and executed. He was followed in death by Gjon Serreqi, a Catholic patriot, who had been sent to a prison camp by the German SS in 1944. Serreqi had directed the clandestine ND while serving as a teacher in the Sami Frashëri high school in the historic center of Pristina, whose students organized an LNDSh Student Youth Committee. \n\nOn 11 March 1945, the Albanian women of Đakovica went into the streets to protest against the drafting of their menfolk to serve the Yugoslavs in the repression of NDSH. \n\nMany of the women protesters were arrested and received lengthy prison sentences. But one Albanian woman stood out from the others: Marie Shllaku (1922–46), a Catholic schoolteacher born in Shkodër in northern Albania. Shllaku was seriously wounded during fighting. Sheltered by a peasant family, she was discovered and arrested. The Yugoslav police ignored her injuries, beating and otherwise torturing her. She was carried into the courtroom in Prizren, where she was tried. In her last words in court, Shllaku declared, \"one day your sons and daughters will be ashamed of your treachery and inhumanity against us and against the whole Albanian people\".\n\nDuring the period when she awaited death, she was heard in her prison cell nightly singing folk songs from Shkodër, as if preparing for her wedding. She was 24 when she was executed late in 1946. Many more LNDSh supporters were imprisoned and killed before the insurrection was completely defeated. Fighting in Kosovo had not ended until 1947; several tens of thousands of Albanians perished in the uprising.\n\nQazim Zogu"}
{"id": "28974963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28974963", "title": "Alexander Levitov", "text": "Alexander Levitov\n\nAlexander Ivanovich Levitov (; August 1, 1835 – January 16, 1877), was a Russian writer.\n\nLevitov was born in the village of Dobroye, in Tambov Governorate, where his father was a sexton. He learned to read and write in a school for peasant children set up by his father in their home. Later he attended the Tambov Seminary.\n\nHe left the seminary before finishing his studies, traveled to Moscow, and then to St Petersburg, where he entered the Academy of Medicine and Surgery in 1855. In 1856 he was exiled to Shenkursk for taking part in political agitation. In Shenkursk he associated primarily with the lower classes, and began drinking. He composed his first short stories during this three-year period of exile.\n\nIn the 1860s and 1870s Levitov's stories and sketches were published in the Russian magazines Russkaya Rech (Russian Speech), Moskovsky Vestnik (Moscow Herald), Sovremennik (The Contemporary), Vremya (Time, edited by Mikhail Dostoyevsky), and Otechestvennye Zapiski (Annals of the Fatherland). During this time he wandered through many of the towns and cities of Russia, drinking heavily, and living in poor conditions. His habits eventually led to serious illness.\n\nLevitov died of tuberculosis in a Moscow clinic in 1877. The funeral costs were paid for with money collected from students.\n\n"}
{"id": "36051887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36051887", "title": "Badaud", "text": "Badaud\n\nBadaud; synomyme kevin\nThe badaud is an important urban type from 18th and 19th-century French literature, one that has been adapted to explain aspects of mass culture and modern experience.\n\nThe term badaud (plural, \"badauds\") comes from the French and has the basic meaning of \"gawker\", or more neutrally, \"bystander\". The term usually carries the connotation of idle curiosity, gullibility, simpleminded foolishness and gaping ignorance. It was an old inheritance, but was elaborated as an urban type in the eighteenth and nineteenth century to describe the street crowds that were an essential feature of the Parisian landscape. Like the \"flâneur\", to which it has been frequently contrasted, the \"badaud\" has been construed as an emblematic figure of the modern, urban experience and of mass culture. The term \"badauderie\" (though not frequently used) refers to the act of gathering in a street crowd or gawking.\n\"Badaud\" was in usage from the 16th century, if not earlier, a French adaptation of the old Provençal \"badau\". From the beginning the term described frivolous curiosity and ignorance. The \"Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle\" (1867) defined the term in this way: \"The \"badaud\" is curious; he is astonished by everything he sees; he believes everything he hears, and he shows his contentment or his surprise by his open, gaping mouth.\" The term came frequently to describe the crowds that gathered in the street at any remarkable sight. From the 17th century and after, the term was associated with Parisians. It is most frequently rendered in English as \"gawker\" or \"bystander\".\n\nAntoine Furetière's \"Dictionnaire universel\" of 1690 defined the term and noted its association with Parisians. \"It is an insulting nickname that has been given to the inhabitants of Paris, for they gather and amuse themselves to see and admire everything they find in their path, provided that it seems out of the ordinary\".\n\nHalf a century later, Voltaire wrote: \"If the people of Paris are most readily described as badauds, it is only because there are more people in Paris than elsewhere, and consequently more useless people. They gather at the first unfamiliar sight, to contemplate a charlatan, or two women of the people arguing, or a driver whose cart has overturned... There are \"badauds\" everywhere, but the first place has been given to those of Paris.\"\n\nLouis-Sébastien Mercier (in 1782) noted that Parisians were often described as \"perfect badauds,\" enraptured by any strange sight. He described a wide variety of crowds in the city of Paris.\n\nAn early nineteenth-century observer of the city (V-J Etienne de Jouy) described \"badauderie\" as the one ineffable trait of the Parisian character. \"In Paris, everything becomes an event: a train of wood being floated down the river, two coaches running into each other, a man dressed differently from others, an armored car, a dog fight, if they are noticed by two people, there will soon be a thousand, and the crowd will always grow, until some other circumstance, just as remarkable, pulls it away.\"\n\nThe \"Grand dictionnaire universel du XIXe siècle\" (1867) shows the badaud at work. \"One is constantly jostled by a crowd of individuals who leave their houses each morning to kill time in city squares, intersections and on the boulevards; they have ten hours to dispose of, and when they return home in the evening, they want to have something to recount: an accident, a poor devil who falls from a bus into the street or faints from hunger, an old dog drowned in the Seine, etc., etc.; and when one of these Tituses of the pavement has seen nothing, observed nothing, he cries: I have lost my day!\" This misfortune, we are told, rarely happens. \"For when the street has nothing to offer, the \"badaud\" always can rely on the Morgue, the Jardin des Plantes, the cemetery at Père La Chaise, and in a last resort, there are the street performers of the place de la Bastille, or the puppeteers of the Champs-Elysées.\"\n\nIn his drawings and engravings from the 1890s, Félix Vallotton presented a taxonomy of Parisian street crowds, demonstrators, pedestrians, and bystanders.\n\nThe \"badaud\" was often contrasted with the \"flâneur\". Auguste de Lacroix, \"Les Français peints par eux-mêmes\" (The French Described By Themselves, 1842) explained: \"The \"flâneur\" is to the \"badaud\" what the gourmet is to the glutton... The \"badaud\" walks for the sake of walking, is amused with everything, is captivated by everything indistinctly, laughs without reason and gazes without seeing.\"\n\nVictor Fournel, in \"Ce qu'on voit dans les rues de Paris\" (What One Sees in the Streets of Paris, 1867), made the distinction perfectly clear. \"The flâneur must not be confused with the badaud; a nuance should be observed here. […] The simple flâneur […] is always in full possession of his individuality. By contrast, the individuality of the badaud disappears, absorbed by the outside world, which ravishes him, which moves him to drunkenness and ecstasy. Under the influence of the spectacle that presents itself to him, the badaud becomes an impersonal creature; he is no longer a man, he is the public, he is the crowd.\n\nWalter Benjamin (following Fournel) contrasted the two figures: \"In the flâneur, the joy of watching is triumphant. It can concentrate on observation; the result is the amateur detective. Or it can stagnate in the gaper; then the flâneur has turned into the badaud.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19132320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19132320", "title": "Bantu Authorities Act, 1951", "text": "Bantu Authorities Act, 1951\n\nThe Bantu Authorities Act, 1951 (Act No. 68 of 1951; subsequently renamed the Black Authorities Act, 1951) was to give authority to Traditional Tribal Leader within their traditional tribal homelands in South Africa. This legislation, succeeding the Native Affairs Act (Act No. 23 of 1920), created the legal basis for Self Determination of the various ethnic and linguistic tribes into traditional homeland reserve areas and established tribal, regional and territorial authorities. This Act was augmented by the Bantu Homelands Citizens Act of 1970.\n\nThe law established a basis for ethnic government in African homeland reserve areas. All political rights (including voting) held by Africans were restricted to the designated homeland.\n\nMany years after the end of apartheid, and with a new framework for traditional leadership present in South African governance, the act became obsolete, and it was formally repealed in 2010, 59 years after it was enacted\n\n"}
{"id": "58722778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58722778", "title": "Bright Alliance", "text": "Bright Alliance\n\nThe Bright Alliance (; \"LUYS Dashink, LUYS\") is a liberal political alliance of two political parties in Armenia: the Bright Armenia party and Republic party. It was formed on 28 August 2018, before the 2018 Yerevan City Council election. Its leaders are Edmon Marukyan (leader of Bright Armenia) and Aram Sargsyan (leader of Republic and former Prime Minister for six months in 1999-2000).\n\nOn 23 September 2018 the alliance participated in the Yerevan City Council election, 2018 with Minister of Justice Artak Zeynalyan as a candidate of Mayor and won 3 seats out of 65 in Yerevan City Council. After the election Artak Zeynalyan gave up his mandate of City Council and continued his work as Minister of Justice.\n"}
{"id": "22132638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22132638", "title": "Consent management", "text": "Consent management\n\n\"\"' is a system, process or set of policies for allowing consumers and patients to determine what health information they are willing to permit their various care providers to access. It enables patients and consumers to affirm their participation in e-health initiatives and to establish consent directives to determine who will have access to their protected health information (PHI), for what purpose and under what circumstances. Consent management supports the dynamic creation, management and enforcement of consumer, organizational and jurisdictional privacy policies.\n\nGartner Research “Hype Cycle for Healthcare Provider Technologies and Standards\n\nThe need to accommodate and automate consumer privacy preferences in health information exchange is recognized by the healthcare industry through various standards activities and consent discussions:\n"}
{"id": "13870502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13870502", "title": "Court of Audit of Belgium", "text": "Court of Audit of Belgium\n\nThe Court of Audit of Belgium (Dutch: , French: \"Cour des comptes\", German: \"Rechnungshof\") is a Belgian governmental institution established by article 180 of the Belgian Constitution. The Court of Audit is a collateral body of the Belgian Federal Parliament and exerts external control on the budgetary, accounting and financial operations of the Federal State, the Communities, the Regions, the public service institutions and the provinces. The task of the Court of Audit is defined in its organic law of 29 October 1846. This law gives the Court of Audit a large independence and a wide autonomy to perform its missions.\n\nThe Court of Audit carries out its tasks at its own initiative. The principle of general independence is a guarantee of objectivity and impartiality. The legislative assemblies can charge to charge the Court of Audit with specific missions of management analysis.\n\nThe Court of Audit can trace its historical lineage to the Chamber of Accounts in the County of Flanders and Chamber of Accounts established in 1386 for Flanders and Burgundy by Philip the Bold. By letters of patent in 1406, Philip's second son Antoine of Burgundy set up a chamber of accounts for the Duchy of Brabant. The Chamber of Accounts was entrusted with the monitoring and the closing of the accounts of all paymasters of the duchy. These Chambers existed in various forms until the independence of Belgium in 1830. After the independence the National Congress voted on 30 December 1830 to establishing the Court of Audit of which the first members were appointed on 6 January 1831. Article 116 of the Constitution of 1831 enshrined the existence of this institution and defined its powers.\n\nIn 1955 it hosted II INCOSAI, the second triennial convention of the International Organization of Supreme Audit Institutions.\n\nSince January 1984, the Court of Audit is situated in Rue de la Régence 2, Brussels, in the former Palace of the Count of Flanders.\n\nThe Federal State, the Communities, the Regions, the public service institutions depending on those entities and the 10 provinces have to report annually on their use of the public funds. These accounts are transmitted to the Court of Audit, which verifies the accuracy, the reliability and the completeness of the entries in the financial statements. The Court of Audit also checks the conformity of the recorded transactions with the accounting legislation.\n\nThe Court also checks and closes the accounts of the public accounting officers who are in charge of the collection and/or payment of the public funds. The Court considers whether their accounts are in balance, whether the balance is in their favour or in the State's favour. In the two first cases, it draws up a discharge judgment. The third case gives rise to an administrative deficit judgment that might result in the carrying out of the jurisdictional task.\n\nThe Court of Audit performs a legality audit on the public expenditures and receipts by checking their conformity with the budgetary law. The Court of Audit ensures that the law rules applicable to the controlled operation are correctly implemented.\n\nThe legality audit is carried out through prior approval of the payment orders relating to the expenditures. No payment can be made without the approval of the Court of Audit. If the Court of Audit withholds its approval, the Government can decide that payment should still take place. The Court of Audit then approves with reservation and immediately informs the concerned legislative assembly to which it explains its reasons for doing so.\n\nAs an institution linked to the Parliament, the Court of Audit is charged with the monitoring of the sound use of public funds according to the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency, so it can inform the Parliament about the way the public services are managed.\n\n\nThe Court of Audit informs the various legislative assemblies and the provincial councils of the results of its audit missions. The Court of Audit submits its audit reports to the assemblees and councils in the form of syntheses integrated into the annual Book of comments (the so-called \"blunder book\") or in the form of special publications. The Court of Audit informs the legislative assemblies of the commitments, authorizations or payments of expenditures exceeding the budget appropriations and comments on the budget drafts submitted to the legislative assemblies.\n\nThe Belgian Constitution charges the Court of Audit with auditing and validating the accounts of the general administration and of all accounting officers answerable to the Treasury. The accounts of these officers are yearly sent to the Court or in the event of a deficit and when they leave office.\n\nThe Court of Audit decides by administrative ruling whether these accounts are in balance, whether the balance is in their favour or in the State's favour. If the ruling shows a deficit the officer has to appear before the Court of Audit. After a public procedure the Court of Audit either exonarates the accounting officer or condemns him to make good that amount or part of it. The rulings can be appealed to the Court of Cassation. If the judgement is vacated, the case will be referred to an appropriate \"ad hoc\" committee, made up of members of the Belgian Chamber of Representatives who judge the case without the possibility of any subsequent appeal.\n\nThe Court of Audit can require the authorizing officers delegated by the minister to repay the amounts if they have committed appropriations in violation of the legal provisions or incurred losses to be paid by the treasury.\n\nCertain categories of political representatives and senior officials are required to file a statement of offices, functions and occupations with the Court of Audit. They are also required to file a declaration of assets in accordance with a fixed schedule. The Court of Audit is in charge of controlling, storing and publishing these documents.\n\nThe Court of Audit consists of a college of 12 magistrates, assisted by civil servants. The Court of Audit is divided a French-speaking and a Dutch-speaking chamber. Each chamber consists of a president, four councilors and a registrar. The senior of the two presidents is designated First President and the senior of the two registrars is Chief Registrar. All members of the Court of Audit are elected by the Belgian Chamber of Representatives for terms of six years and can be reappointed.\n\n"}
{"id": "8030788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8030788", "title": "DevGen", "text": "DevGen\n\nDevgen is a Belgium-based multinational agricultural biotechnology company. It uses biotechnology and molecular breeding technologies to develop varieties of food crops. Its technology is marketed by outlicensing or selling seeds in India and South-East Asia. Devgen also develops nematicides.\n\nDevgen was founded as a spin-off of Ghent University and The Flemish Institute for Biotechnology in 1997 to commercialize intellectual property it licensed on the use of RNAi in nematodes and its use for screening for therapeutics and/or their targets. Its work focused on the nematode \"C. elegans\" as a model system, which functions as a model for human diseases, but also as a model for the kind of nematodes that are agricultural pests. \n\nThe company raised 37 million Euro in its first three years, first from the GIMV and Abingworth investment companies at its launch, then from the IWT, then from another round of private investors including ING, KBC, Life Science Partners, Sofindex, Rendex and Mercator, then from Polytechnos and Capricorn. The received several subsequent grants from IWT. \n\nDevgen also struck R&D collaborations over its first six years, first with Janssen Pharmaceutica in 1998 in the field of target discovery for drugs and later with Merck and Genentech in the same field, and in 1998 it collaborated with FMC Corporation for the discovery of novel insecticides, and then with other ag companies like Sumitomo, Syngenta, Pioneer Hi-Bred. Devgen brought in 23 million Euro in funding from these partnerships through 2003. \n\nIn 2004 it opened a second office in Singapore and moved into a new research building on the Ardoyen Technology Campus.\n\nIn June 2005, employing close to 100 people, Devgen raised more than 33 million euro in a successful IPO on Euronext Brussels. Also in 2005, it established rice breeding stations in Kenya; it completed its first field trials there in 2006. In 2005 it also launched field trials of its nematicide in Europe.\n\nIn early 2007, Devgen and Monsanto announced a five-year collaboration in which the two companies would share technologies, with Devgen focusing the shared technology on the development of rice and other small cereal grains, and Monsanto using them to develop new traits for corn, cotton, and soybeans. Later in 2007, Devgen acquired Monsanto's subsidiaries in India, Pakistan, and the Philippines that developed and sold hybrid seeds for 4 crops: rice, sunflower, sorghum and pearl millet, for about $26M. Shortly thereafter, it announced its intention to spin off its pharma division. In late 2008 it fired its 19 pharma employees, leaving about 200 remaining in its ag businesses. In 2010, some former Devgen pharma employees started a pharmaceutical company, Amakem NV, to develop kinase inhibitors they had discovered at Devgen.\n\nIn 2009, Devgen and Monsanto broadened their collaboration, with Monsanto paying Devgen €20 million cash for broader rights to use Devgen's technology.\n\nDevgen's nematicide Iprodione, was approved in the Turkish market under the brandname Devguard for use on tomatoes and cucumbers in 2009, was approved in Europe in 2010, and was approved in the US as Enclosure for use in commercial peanut production in May 2010. Devgen has a method-of-use patents for the use of iprodine to kill nematodes.\n\nIn September 2012, Syngenta placed a bid of 403 million euros ($522 million) for the acquisition of Devgen as part of a wave of large ag companies buying biotech companies. The offer came six months after the companies had signed an agreement under which Syngenta would have developed sprayable RNAi-based crop protection products based on Devgen's technology. The rationale for Syngenta to acquire Devgen was stated by Syngenta spokeswoman Jennifer Gough as follows: \"It's a very important expansion of our rice strategy, one of our eight key crops\", she said. \"We are also buying their competence in RNAi technology which will be relevant for us across a broad range of crops.\" Devgen's shares were delisted from the NYSE in February 2013, and the acquisition was completed in December 2013.\n"}
{"id": "7551824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7551824", "title": "Fearmongering", "text": "Fearmongering\n\nFearmongering or scaremongering is the spreading of frightening and exaggerated rumors of an impending danger or the habit or tactic of purposely and needlessly arousing public fear about an issue.\n\nProbably the best-known example in American politics, pre-9/11, is the \"Daisy\" television commercial, a famous campaign television advertisement beginning with a little girl standing in a meadow with chirping birds, picking the petals of a daisy while counting each petal slowly. When she reaches \"9\", an ominous-sounding male voice is then heard counting down a missile launch, and as the girl's eyes turn toward something she sees in the sky, the camera zooms in until her pupil fills the screen, blacking it out. When the countdown reaches zero, the blackness is replaced by the flash and mushroom cloud of a nuclear explosion.\n\nAs the firestorm rages, a voice-over from President Johnson states, \"These are the stakes! To make a world in which all of God's children can live, or to go into the dark. We must either love each other, or we must die\". Another voice-over then says, \"Vote for President Johnson on November 3. The stakes are too high for you to stay home\".\n\nAdvertisers have also entered the arena with their discovery that \"fear sells\". Ad campaigns based on fear, sometimes referred to as shockvertising, have become increasingly popular in recent years. Fear is a strong emotion and it can be manipulated to steer people into making emotional rather than reasoned choices. From car commercials that imply that having fewer airbags will cause your family harm, to disinfectant commercials that show bacteria lurking on every surface, fear-based advertising works. While using fear in ads has generated some negative reactions by the public, there is evidence to show that \"shockvertising\" is a highly effective persuasion technique, and over the last several years, advertisers have continued to increase their usage of fear in ads in what has been called a \"never-ending arms race in the advertising business\".\n\nAuthor Ken Ring was accused of scaremongering by New Zealand politician Nick Smith. The Auckland seller of almanacs made predictions about earthquakes and weather patterns based on lunar cycles, and some of his predictions were taken seriously by some members of the public in connection with the 2011 earthquakes in Christchurch, New Zealand.\n"}
{"id": "39174660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39174660", "title": "Forward estimates", "text": "Forward estimates\n\nForward estimates are budget projections for revenue, expenses and financial position for the three years beyond the current (budgeted) fiscal year. The “forward estimates” system evolved in Australia from the late 1970s through the 1980s and is used at both the Federal and State levels.\n\nThe forward estimates provide a mechanism for discipline within the budgeting process that enables a greater focus on strategic policy issues, and provide a strategic framework for budgetary decision making in the medium-term. \nDepending on the context, the forward estimates period can refer to the three years following the budget year or the four years inclusive of the budget year.\n\nForward estimates are based on \nassumptions about local and global economic parameters, and the process develops estimates for the level and composition of expenditures for three years beyond the budgeted fiscal year, with the assumption that existing policies are maintained, planned policies are implemented, and that the Government's planned objectives continue to be pursued. This is known as the 'same policy basis'. It is worth noting that the 'same policy' estimates are not forecasts since they only provide a projected outcome under a scenario where existing policy remains unchanged and the economic assumptions remain valid. Any change to policy or economic conditions will affect the projections.\n\nThe Charter of Budget Honesty Act 1998 places an obligation on the Government to regularly update the economic projections, including annually for the \"Budget economic and fiscal outlook\" report, semi-annually for the \"Mid-year economic and fiscal outlook\" report (MYEFO) and, prior to an election, for the \"Pre-election economic and fiscal outlook\" report (PEFO).\n\nAt a Federal level, the Department of Finance is responsible for updating the forward estimates at regular intervals to reflect changes in economic parameters and the effects of government policy decisions. Thus, the Department of Finance is seen as “owning” the forward estimates.\n"}
{"id": "1242932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1242932", "title": "Francization", "text": "Francization\n\nFrancization or Francisation (in Canadian English and American English), Frenchification (in British and also in American English), or Gallicization designates the extension of the French language by its adoption as a first language or not, adoption that can be forced upon or desired by the concerned population.\n\nThe number of Francophones (French language speakers) in the world has been rising substantially since the 1980s. In 1985, there were 106 million Francophones around the world. That number quickly rose to 173.2 million in 1997, 200 million in 2005, 220 million in 2010 (+10% from 2007). and reached 274 million in 2014, Forecasts expect that the number of French speakers in Africa alone will reach 400 million in 2025, 715 million (readjusted in 2010) by 2050 and reach 1 billion and 222 million in 2060 (readjusted in 2013). the worldwide French speaking population is expected to multiply by a factor of 4, whereas the world population is predicted to multiply by a factor of only 1.5.\n\nAccording to the OIF, the figure of 220 million Francophones is \"sous-évalué\" or under-evaluated because it only counts people that can write, understand and speak French fluently, thus excluding a large part of the countdown of the African population that does not know how to write.\n\nFrench is also the language in which the relative share of speakers is the world's fastest growing.\n\nThe French \"Conseil économique, social et environnemental\" estimate that if the population that does not know how to write would be included as francophones, then the total number of French speakers passed the 500 million in the year 2000.\n\nIn 2014, a study from the renowned Natixis Bank, showed that French will become the world's most spoken language by 2050. However critics of the study state that French coexists with other languages in many countries and that the estimations of the study are greatly overstated.\n\nOut of 53 countries, Africa has 32 French-speaking countries, more than half; French was also the most widely spoken language in Africa in 2015.\n\nThe Francophone zone of Africa is two times the size of the United States of America (including Alaska)\n\nFrench was introduced in Africa by France and Belgium during the colonial period. The process of francization continued after the colonial period, so that English-speaking countries like Ghana or Nigeria feel strong French influences from their French-speaking neighbors.\n\nFrench became the most spoken language in Africa after Arabic and Swahili in 2010. The number of speakers changed very rapidly between 1992 and 2002, with the number of learners of French in sub-Saharan and southeastern Africa increasing by 60.37%, from 22,33 million to 34,56 million people.\n\nA similar trend in the Maghreb region is occurring. However, the figures provided by the OIF for the Maghreb region were combined with those of the Middle East. The exact count for the Maghreb countries alone is not possible, but an increase was observed from 10.47 million to 18 million people learning French between 1992 and 2002, even where French is not an official language (e.g., Egypt).\n\nConsideration should be given to the number of French speakers in each country to get an idea of the importance the French language holds in Africa.\n\nList of counties with French as a non official language that have recently decided to join the OIF in view of frenchifying their countries:\n\nThe French language currently plays an important role in Africa, serving more and more as a common language or mother tongue (in Gabon, Ivory Coast, Congo, Cameroon and Benin in particular). \nThe African Academy of Languages was established in 2001 to manage the linguistic heritage.\n\nFrancophone African countries counted 370 million inhabitants in 2014. This number is expected to reach between 700 and 750 million by 2050. There are already more francophones in Africa than in Europe.\n\nVietnam, Cambodia and Laos were once part of French Indochina, part of the French Empire. French influence, including buildings, language and cuisine have been influenced from this, but they are still highly distinct in their own cultures.\n\nGreat Britain, and therefore the English language, was deeply francized during the Middle Ages. This was a result of the conquest of England by William the Conqueror from Normandy in 1066, a king who spoke exclusively French and imposed the French language in England. Old English became the language of the poor population and French the language of the court and wealthy population. It is said that during this period England spoke more French than France itself. Today, it is estimated that 70% to 72% of the English language comes from French or Latin.\n\nIt is easy to observe this tendency in the cooking world. The names of living farm animals have Anglo-Saxon roots. However, the names of cooked animals, once served to the wealthier, have Old French origins:\n\n\nThere is an incomplete list of French expressions used in English, containing however only pure French expressions (and not evolved/modified words with French roots): List of French expressions in English\n\nFrancization is also a designation applied to a number of ethnic assimilation policies implemented by French authorities from the French Revolution to present. These policies aimed to impose or to maintain the dominance of French language (which at this time was still a minority language in the numerical sense, despite being the prestige language of France and an increasingly important vernacular for writing, with the decline of Latin) and culture by encouraging or compelling people of other ethnic groups to adopt them, and thereby developing a French identity, at the expense of their existing identity. Coupled with this policy was the deliberate suppression of minority languages. Quickly after the end of the Ancien Régime, the new revolutionary government adopted a policy of promotion of French as a unifying and modernizing language, simultaneously denigrating the status of minority languages as bulwarks of feudalism, Church control of the state, and backwardness in general. In less than a year after coming to power (1792), the Committee for Public Instruction mandated that the newly expanded public education would be buttressed by the sending of French-speaking teachers to areas that spoke other languages. The 19th century saw this programme achieve many of its intended aims: the French language became much more expansive among the population, and by the 1860s, nearly 80 percent of the national population were able to speak French.\n\nOnly at the turn of the 20th century did French become the mother language of the adult population's majority in the French Third Republic, thanks to Jules Ferry's free, compulsory education, which pursued more or less explicitly the strengthening of the central state by means of instilling a French national identity in the population. French was presented as the language of modernity, as opposed to regional languages such as Breton or Basque, labeled as barbaric or tribal, the use of which was punished at school by having pupils caught speaking them display tokens of shame. In Occitan speaking areas that school policy was called the \"vergonha\".\n\nUp to 1992, no official language was recognized in the French constitution. That year, the hegemony of French was further reinforced by declaring it constitutionally the language of the French republic. In 1998, France became a signatory of the European Charter on Minority Languages, however it has yet to ratify it, with general agreement among the political class that supportive measures are neither popular enough to attract great support nor banal enough to avert controversy, with concerns specifically about courts forcing the state to act if the rights enshrined in the charter are recognized.\n\nThe term can be applied to the francization of the Alemannic-speaking inhabitants of Alsace and the Lorraine Franconian-speaking inhabitants of Lorraine after these regions were conquered by Louis XIV during the 17th century, to the Flemings in French Flanders, to the Occitans in Occitania, as well as to Basques, Bretons, Catalans, Corsicans and Niçards.\n\nIt began with the ordinance of Villers-Cotterêts under King Francis I of France, that prescribed the official use of the French language, the langue d'oïl dialect spoken at the time in the Île-de-France, in all documents. Other tongues, such as Occitan, began to disappear as written languages.\n\nEverything was francized step by step, starting with surnames and place names. Presently, it still continues, but some change their names to \"bretonize\" (replacement of 'Le' by 'Ar' for instance \"Le Bras\" becomes \"Ar Braz\" 'the tall') or \"occitanize\" it again. City signs for example, might be spelled in French, but the local authorities are now allowed to add the historic version. However, the process is limited by the refusal of the French Government to recognize minority languages in France, on the basis of the French Constitution, which states that \"The language of the Republic of France is French.\"\n\nIn the last two centuries, Brussels transformed from an exclusively Dutch-speaking city to a bilingual city with French as the majority language and lingua franca. The language shift began in the 18th century and accelerated as Belgium became independent and Brussels expanded beyond its original city boundaries. From 1880 on, more and more Dutch-speaking people became bilingual, resulting in a rise of monolingual French-speakers after 1910. Halfway through the 20th century, the number of monolingual French-speakers carried the day over the (mostly) bilingual Flemish inhabitants. Only since the 1960s, after the fixation of the Belgian language border and the socio-economic development of Flanders was in full effect, could Dutch stem the tide of increasing French use. The francization of the Flemish periphery around Brussels still continues because of the continued immigration of French-speakers, coming from Wallonia and Brussels.\n\nThe Government of Quebec has francization policies intended to establish French as the primary language of business and commerce. All businesses are required to provide written communications and schedules in French, and may not make knowledge of a language other than French a condition of hiring unless this is justified by the nature of the duties. Businesses with more than fifty employees are required to register with the Quebec Office of the French language in order to become eligible for a francization certificate, which is granted if the linguistic requirements are met. If not, employers are required to adopt a francization programme, which includes having employees, especially ones in managerial positions, who do not speak French or whose grasp of French is weak attend French-language training.\n\nAs part of the francization programme, the Quebec government provides free language courses for recent immigrants (from other countries or other provinces) who do not speak French or whose command of French is weak. The government also provides financial assistance for those who are unable to find employment because they are unable to speak French.\n\nAnother aspect of francization in Quebec regards the quality of the French used in Quebec. The Quebec Office of the French language has, since its formation, undertaken to discourage anglicisms and to promote high standards of French language education in schools.\nThe francization programmes have been considered a great success. Since 1977 (the year the Charter of the French Language became law), the number of English speakers has decreased from 14% in 1970 to less than 6.7% in 2006. In the 1970s the French language was generally understood only by native French speakers, 80% of the population of Quebec. In 2001, French was understood by more than 94% of the population.\nMoreover, the number of immigrants sending their children to English schools fell from 80% in 1970 to less than 4% in 2006.\n\nFrench is also becoming increasingly attractive to foreign speakers, suggesting that the francization programmes have been successful.\n\nMontreal is a particular case, because unlike the rest of Quebec, the French-speaking proportion of the population diminished. However, this does not mean that the francization programmes failed, as the level of English speakers diminished as well; it seems more likely that the decrease was caused by the fact that 93% of new immigrants to Quebec choose to settle in Montreal, with a corresponding rise in languages other than English and French. The government of Quebec estimates that over the next 20 years, the Francophone proportion of Montreal will go back up.\n\nBut those estimations seems to underestimate the francization of Montreal for some experts, because statistics shows that the proportion has already risen from 55.6% (1996) to 56.4% (2001).\n\nThe success of francization of Quebec can also be seen over the borders of its territory: in Ontario, the proportion of English speakers dropped from 70.5% in 2001 to 68% in 2006, while the proportion of French speakers went up from 4.06% (488 815) in 2006 to 4.80% (580 000) in 2009. However, this statistic must be examined in conjunction with the effects of Quebec francophone out-migration. Interprovincial migration, especially to Ontario, results in a net loss of population in Quebec. The number of French-speaking Quebecers leaving the province tends to be similar to the number entering, while immigrants to Quebec tend to leave.\n\nNone of the Quebec statistics are adjusted to compensate for the percentage—approximately 20%—of Anglophones who departed the province by the mid-1980s as a consequence of linguistic nationalism. By 2001, over 60% of the 1971 population of Quebec Anglophones had left the province.\n\nThe policy has been even more successful in New Brunswick. For example: the city of Edmundston, which went from 89% of French speakers in 1996 to 93.4% in 2006, the city of Moncton (from 30.4% in 1996 to 33% in 2006), Dalhousie (from 42.5% to 49.5%) and Dieppe (from 71.1% in 1996 to 74.2% in 2006). Some cities even passed 50% of French speakers between 1991 and 2006 like Bathurst, which passed from 44.6% of French speakers in 1996 to 50.5% in 2006, or Campbellton, from 47% in 1996 to 55% in 2006.\n\nThe Charter of the French Language has been a complete success, according to Hervé Lavenir de Buffon (general secretary of the « Comité international pour le français, langue européenne »), who said in 2006: \"Before Bill 101, Montreal looked like an American city. Now Montreal looks like a French-speaking city; that proves how well Bill 101 has worked!\"\n\nRates of francization may be established for any group by comparing the number of people who usually speak French to the total number of people in the minority language group. See Calvin Veltman's \"Language Shift in the United States\" (1983) for a discussion.\n\nThere are many examples of francization in history and popular culture:\n\nThe same exists for other languages, for example English, in which case objects or persons can be anglicized.\n\n"}
{"id": "38846583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38846583", "title": "Gender disparities in health", "text": "Gender disparities in health\n\nWHO has defined health as \"a state of complete physical, mental, and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.\" Identified by the \"2012 World Development Report\" as one of two key human capital endowments, health can influence an individual's ability to reach his or her full potential in society. Yet while gender equality has made the most progress in areas such as education and labor force participation, health inequality between men and women continues to plague many societies today. While both males and females face health disparities, girls and women experience a majority of health disparities. This comes from the fact that many cultural ideologies and practices have structured society in a way whereby women are more vulnerable to abuse and mistreatment, making them more prone to illnesses and early death. Women are also restricted from receiving many opportunities, such as education and paid labor, that can help improve their accessibility to better health care resources.\n\nHealth disparity has been defined by the World Health Organization as the differences in health care received by different groups of people that are not only unnecessary and avoidable but unfair and unjust. The existence of health disparity implies that health equity does not exist in many parts of the world. Equity in health refers to the situation whereby every individual has a fair opportunity to attain their full health potential. Overall, the term \"health disparities\", or \"health inequalities\", is widely understood as the differences in health between people who are situated in different positions in a socioeconomic hierarchy.\n\nThe social structures of many countries perpetuate the marginalization and oppression of women in the form of cultural norms and legal codes. As a result of this unequal social order, women are usually relegated into positions where they have less access and control over healthcare resources, making women more vulnerable to suffering from health problems than men. For example, women living in areas with a patriarchal system are often less likely to receive tertiary education or to be employed in the paid labor market due to gender discrimination. As a result, female life expectancy at birth and nutritional well-being, and immunity against communicable and non-communicable diseases, are often lower than those of men.\n\nWhile a majority of the global health gender disparities is weighted against women, there are situations in which men tend to fare poorer. One such instance is armed conflicts, where men are often the immediate victims. A study of conflicts in 13 countries from 1955 to 2002 found that 81% of all violent war deaths were male. Apart from armed conflicts, areas with high incidence of violence, such as regions controlled by drug cartels, also see men experiencing higher mortality rates. This stems from social beliefs that associate ideals of masculinity with aggressive, confrontational behavior. Lastly, sudden and drastic changes in economic environments and the loss of social safety nets, in particular social subsidies and food stamps, have also been linked to higher levels of alcohol consumption and psychological stress among men, leading to a spike in male mortality rates. This is because such situations often makes it harder for men to provide for their family, a task that has been long regarded as the \"essence of masculinity.\" A retrospective analyses of people infected with the common cold found that doctors underrate the symptoms of men, and are more willing to attribute symptoms and illness to women than men. Women live longer than men in all countries, and across all age groups, for which reliable records exist. \n\nAt birth, boys outnumber girls with the ratio of 105 or 106 male to 100 female children. However, after conception, biology favors women. Research has shown that if men and women received similar nutrition, medical attention, and general health care, women would live longer than men. This is because women, on a whole, are more resistant to diseases and less prone to debilitating genetic conditions. However, despite medical and scientific research that shows that when given the same care as males, females tend to have better survival rates than males, the ratio of women to men in developing regions such as South Asia, West Asia, and China can be as low as 0.94, or even lower. This deviation from the natural male to female sex ratio has been described by Indian philosopher and economist Amartya Sen as the \"missing women\" phenomenon. According to the 2012 World Development Report, the number of missing women is estimated to be about 1.5 million women per year, with a majority of the women missing in India and China.\n\nIn many developing regions, women experience high levels of mortality. Many of these deaths result from maternal mortality and HIV/AIDS infection. Although only 1,900 maternal deaths were recorded in high-income nations in 2008, India and Sub-Saharan Africa experienced a combined total of 266,000 deaths from pregnancy-related causes. In Somalia and Chad, one in every 14 women die from causes related to child birth. In addition, the HIV/AIDS epidemic also contributes significantly to female mortality. The case is especially true for Sub-Saharan Africa, where women account for 60% of all adult HIV infections.\n\nWomen tend to have poorer health outcomes than men for several reasons ranging from sustaining greater risk to diseases to experiencing higher mortality rates. In the Population Studies Center Research Report by Rachel Snow that compares the disability-adjusted life years (DALY) of both male and females, the global DALYs lost to females for sexually transmitted diseases such as gonorrhea and chlamydia are more than ten times greater than those of the males. Moreover, the female DALYs to male DALYs ratio for malnutrition-related diseases such as Iron-Deficiency Anemia are often close to 1.5, suggesting that poor nutrition impacts women at a much higher level than men. Additionally, in terms of mental illnesses, women are also two to three times more likely than men to be diagnosed with depression. With regards to suicidal rates, up to 80% of those who committed suicide or attempted suicide in Iran are women.\n\nIn developed countries with more social and legal gender equality, overall health outcomes can disfavor men. For example, in the United States, as of 2001, men's life expectancy is 5 years lower than women's (down from 1 year in 1920), and men die at higher rates from all top 10 causes of death, especially heart disease and stroke. Men die from suicide more frequently, though women more frequently have suicidal thoughts and the suicide attempt rate is the same for men and women (see Gender differences in suicide). Men may suffer from undiagnosed depression more frequently, due to gender differences in the expression of emotion. American men are more likely to consume alcohol, smoke, engage in risky behaviors, and defer medical care.\n\nIncidence of melanoma has strong gender-related differences which vary by age.\n\nWomen outlive men in 176 countries. Data from 38 countries shows women having higher life expediencies than men for all years both at birth and at age 50. Men are more likely to die from 13 of the 15 major causes of death in the U.S. However, women are more likely to suffer from disease than men and miss work due to illness throughout life. This is called the mortality-morbidity paradox This is explained by an excess of psychological, rather than physical, distress among women, as well as higher smoking rates among men. Androgens also contribute to the male deficit in longevity. \n\nWomen tend to have poorer access to health care resources than men. In certain regions of Africa, many women often lack access to malaria treatment as well as access to resources that could protect them against Anopheles mosquitoes during pregnancy. As a result of this, pregnant women who are residing in areas with low levels of malaria transmission are still placed at two to three times higher risk than men in terms of contracting a severe malaria infection. These disparities in access to healthcare are often compounded by cultural norms and expectations imposed on women. For example, certain societies forbid women from leaving their homes unaccompanied by a male relative, making it harder for women to receive healthcare services and resources when they need it most.\n\nGender factors, such as women's status and empowerment (i.e., in education, employment, intimate partner relationships, and reproductive health), are linked with women's capacity to access and use maternal health services, a critical component of maternal health. Still, family planning is typically viewed as the responsibility of women, with programs targeting women and overlooking the role of men—even though men's dominance in decision making, including contraceptive use, has significant implications for family planning and access to reproductive health services.\n\nIn order to promote equity in access to reproductive health care, health programs and services should conduct analyses to identify gender inequalities and barriers to health, and determine the programmatic implications. The analyses will help inform decisions about how to design, implement, and scale up health programs that meet the differential needs of women and men.\n\nCultural norms and practices are two of the main reasons why gender disparities in health exist and continue to persist. These cultural norms and practices often influence the roles and behaviors that men and women adopt in society. It is these gender differences between men and women, which are regarded and valued differently, that give rise to gender inequalities as they work to systematically empower one group and oppress the other. Both gender differences and gender inequalities can lead to disparities in health outcomes and access to health care. Some of the examples provided by the World Health Organization of how cultural norms can result in gender disparities in health include a woman's inability to travel alone, which can prevent them from receiving the necessary health care that they need. Another societal standard is a woman's inability to insist on condom use by her spouse or sex partners, leading to a higher risk of contracting HIV. \n\nOne of the better documented cultural norms that augment gender disparities in health is the preference for sons. In India, for instance, the 2001 census recorded only 93 girls per 100 boys. This is a sharp decline from 1961, when the number of girls per 100 boys was nearly 98. In certain parts of India, such as Kangra and Rohtak the number of girls for every 100 boys can be as low as in the 70s. Additionally, low female to male numbers have also been recorded in other Asian countries – most notably in China where, according to a survey in 2005, only 84 girls were born for every 100 boys. Although this was a slight increase from 81 during 2001–2004, it is still much lower than the 93 girls per 100 boys in the late 1980s. The increasing number of unborn girls in the late 20th century has been attributed to technological advances that made pre-birth sex determination, also known as prenatal sex discernment, such as the ultrasound test more affordable and accessible to a wider population. This allowed parents who prefer a son to determine the sex of their unborn child during the early stages of pregnancy. By having early identification of their unborn child's sex, parents could practice sex-selective abortion, where they would abort the fetus if it was not the preferred sex, which in most cases is that of the female.\n\nAdditionally, the culture of son preference also extends beyond birth in the form of preferential treatment of boys. Economic benefits of having a son in countries like India also explain the preferential treatment of boys over girls. For example, in Indian culture it is the sons that provide care and economic stability to their parents as they age, so having a boy helps to ensure the futures of many Indian families. This preferential care can be manifested in many ways, such as through differential provision of food resources, attention, and medical care. Data from household surveys over the past 20 years has indicated that the female disadvantage has persisted in India and may have even worsened in some other countries such as Nepal and Pakistan.\n\nHarmful cultural practices such as female genital mutilation (FGM) also cause girls and women to face health risks. Millions of females are estimated to have undergone FGM, which involves partial or total removal of the external female genitalia for non-medical reasons. It is estimated that 92.5 million females over 10 years of age in Africa are living with the consequences of FGM. Of these, 12.5 million are girls between 10 and 14 years of age. Each year, about three million girls in Africa are subjected to FGM.\n\nOften performed by traditional practitioners using unsterile techniques and devices, FGM can have both immediate and late complications.<ref name=\"Care of women with female genital mutilation/cutting\"></ref> These include excessive bleeding, urinary tract infections, wound infection, and in the case of unsterile and reused instruments, hepatitis and HIV. In the long run, scars and keloids can form, which can obstruct and damage the urinary and genital tracts. According to a 2005 UNICEF report on FGM, it is unknown how many girls and women die from the procedure because of poor record keeping and a failure to report fatalities.<ref name=\"Changing a Harmful Social Convention: Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting\"></ref> FGM may also complicate pregnancy and place women at a higher risk for obstetrical problems, such as prolonged labor. According to a 2006 study by the WHO involving 28,393 women, neonatal mortality increases when women have experienced FGM; an additional ten to twenty babies were estimated to die per 1,000 deliveries.\n\nPsychological complications are related to cultural context. Women who undergo FGM might be emotionally affected when they move outside their traditional circles and are confronted with the view that mutilation is not the norm.\n\nViolence against women is a widespread global occurrence with serious public health implications. This is a result of social and gender bias.<ref name=\"World Health Organization: Violence and injuries to/against women\"></ref> Many societies in developing nations function on a patriarchal framework, where women are often viewed as a form of property and as socially inferior to men. This unequal standing in the social hierarchy has led women to be physically, emotionally, and sexually abused by men, both as children and adults. These abuses usually constitute some form of violence. Although children of both sexes do suffer from physical maltreatment, sexual abuse, and other forms of exploitation and violence, studies have indicated that young girls are far more likely than boys to experience sexual abuse. In a 2004 study on child abuse, 25.3% of all girls surveyed experienced some form of sexual abuse, a percentage that is three times higher than that of boys (8.7%).\n\nSuch violence against women, especially sexual abuse, is increasingly being documented in areas experiencing armed conflicts. Presently, women and girls bear the brunt of social turmoil worldwide, making up an estimated 65% of the millions who are displaced and affected. Some of these places which are facing such problems include Rwanda, Kosovo, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This comes as a result of both the general instability around the region, as well as a tactic of warfare to intimidate enemies. Often being placed in emergency and refugee settings, girls and women alike are highly vulnerable to abuse and exploitation by military combatants, security forces, and members of rival communities.\n\nThe sexual violence and abuse of both young and adult women have both short and long-term consequences, contributing significantly to a myriad of health issues into adulthood. These range from debilitating physical injuries, reproductive health issues, substance abuse, and psychological trauma. Examples of the above categories include depression and post-traumatic stress disorder, alcohol and drug use and dependence, sexually transmitted diseases, and suicide attempts.\n\nAbused women often have higher rates of unplanned and problematic pregnancies, abortions, neonatal and infant health issues, sexually transmitted infections (including HIV), and mental disorders (such as depression, anxiety disorders, sleep disorders and eating disorders) as compared to their non-abused peers. During peacetime, most violence against women is perpetrated by either male individuals whom them know or intimate male partners. An eleven-country study conducted by WHO between 2000 and 2003 found that, depending on the country, between 15% and 71% of women have experienced physical or sexual violence by a husband or partner in their lifetime, and 4% to 54% within the previous year. Partner violence may also be fatal. Studies from Australia, Canada, Israel, South Africa and the United States show that between 40% and 70% of female murders were carried out by intimate partners.\n\nOther forms of violence against women include sexual harassment and abuse by authority figures (such as teachers, police officers or employers), trafficking for forced labour or sex, and traditional practices such as forced child marriages and dowry-related violence. At its most extreme, violence against women can result in female infanticide and violent death. Despite the size of the problem, many women do not report their experience of abuse and do not seek help. As a result, violence against women remains a hidden problem with great human and health care costs. Worldwide men account for 79% of all victims of homicide. Homicide statistics by gender\n\nPoverty is another factor that facilitates the continual existence of gender disparities in health. Poverty often works in tandem with various cultural norms to indirectly impact women's health. While many communities and households are not opposed to helping women attain better health through education, better nutrition, and financial stability, poverty often act as a form of barrier against gender equity in health for women. Oftentimes, due to financial constraints and limited capital, only a select few are able to receive opportunities, like education and employment, that might help them attain better health outcomes. However, cultural norms would often prioritized men in receiving these opportunities. This prioritization of males stems from the societal perception that the potential returns to both the household and the community is higher for men than women.\n\nThe World Health Organization defines health systems as \"all the activities whose primary purpose is to promote, restore, or maintain health\". However, factors outside of healthcare systems can influence the impact healthcare systems have on the health of different demographics within a population. This is because healthcare systems are known to be influenced by social, cultural and economic frameworks. As a result, health systems are regarded as not only \"producers of health and health care\", but also as \"purveyors of a wider set of societal norms and values,\" many of which are biased against women\n\nIn the Women and Gender Equity Knowledge Network's Final Report to the WHO Commission on Social Determinants of Health in 2007, health systems in many countries were noted to have been unable to deliver adequately on gender equity in health. One explanation for this issue is that many healthcare systems tend to neglect the fact that men and women's health needs can be very different. In the report, studies have found evidence that the healthcare system can promote gender disparities in health through the lack of gender equity in terms of the way women are regarded - as both consumers (users) and producers (carers) of health care services. For instance, healthcare systems tend to regard women as objects rather than subjects, where services are often provided to women as a means of something else rather on the well-being of women. In the case of reproductive health services, these services are often provided as a form of fertility control rather than as care for women's well-being. Additionally, although the majority of the workforce in health care systems are female, many of the working conditions remain discriminatory towards women. Many studies have shown that women are often expected to conform to male work models that ignore their special needs, such as childcare or protection from violence. This significantly reduces the ability and efficiency of female caregivers providing care to patients, particularly female ones.<ref name=\"Expanding the care continuum for HIV/AIDS: bringing carers into focus\"></ref>\n\nStructural gender inequalities in the allocation of resources, such as income, education, health care, nutrition and political voice, are strongly associated with poor health and reduced well-being. Very often, such structural gender discrimination of women in many other areas has an indirect impact on women's health. For example, because women in many developing nations are less likely to be part of the formal labor market, they often lack access to job security and the benefits of social protection, including access to health care. Additionally, within the formal workforce, women often face challenges related to their lower status, where they suffer workplace discrimination and sexual harassment. Studies have shown that this expectation of having to balance the demands of paid work and work at home often give rise to work-related fatigue, infections, mental ill-health and other problems, which results in women faring poorer in health.\n\nWomen's health is also put at a higher level of risk as a result of being confined to certain traditional responsibilities, such as cooking and water collection. Being confined to unpaid domestic labor not only reduces women's opportunities to education and formal job employment (both of which can indirectly contribute to better health in the long run), but also potentially expose women to higher risk of health issues. For instance, in developing regions where solid fuels are used for cooking, women are exposed to a higher level of indoor air pollution due to extended periods of cooking and preparing meals for the family. Breathing air tainted by the burning of solid fuels is estimated to be responsible for 641,000 of the 1.3 million deaths of women worldwide each year due to chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD).\n\nIn some settings, structural gender inequity is associated with particular forms of violence, marginalization, and oppression against females. This includes violent assault by men, child sexual abuse, strict regulation of women's behavior and movement, female genital mutilation, and exploitative, forced labor. Women and girls are also vulnerable to less well-documented forms of abuse or exploitation, such as human trafficking or \"honor killings\" for perceived behavioral transgressions and deviation of their social roles. These acts are associated with a wide range of health problems in women such as physical injuries, unwanted pregnancies, abortions, mental disorders such as depression, and anxiety, substance abuse, and sexually transmitted infections, all of which can potentially lead to premature death.\n\nThe ability of women to utilize health care is also heavily influenced by other forms of structural gender inequalities. These include unequal restriction on one's mobility and behavior, as well as unequal control over financial resources. Many of these social gender inequalities can impact the way women's health is regarded, which can in turn determine the level of access women have to healthcare services and the extent by which households and the larger community are willing to invest in women's health issues.\n\nApart from gender discrimination, other axes of oppression also exist in society to further marginalize certain groups of women, especially those who are living in poverty or of minority status in which they live.\n\nRace is a well known axis of oppression, where people of color tend to suffer more from structural violence. For people of color, race can serve as a factor, in addition to gender, that can further influence one's health negatively. Studies have shown that in both high-income and low-income countries, levels of maternal mortality may be up to three times higher among women of disadvantaged ethnic groups than among white women. In a study on race and mother-death within the US, the maternal mortality rate for African Americans is close to four times higher than that of white women. Similarly in South Africa, the maternal mortality rate for black/African women and women of color is approximately 10 and 5 times greater respectively than that of white/European women.\n\nAlthough women around the world share many similarities in terms of the health-impacting challenges, there are also many distinct differences that arise from their varying states of socioeconomic conditions. The type of living conditions in which women live is largely associated with not only their own socioeconomic status, but also that of their nation.\n\nAt every single age category, women in high income countries tend to live longer and are less likely to suffer from ill health than and premature mortality than those in low income countries. Death rates in high-income countries are also very low among children and younger women, where most deaths occur after the age of 60 years. In low-income countries however, the death rates at young ages are much higher, with most death occurring among girls, adolescents, and younger adult women. Data from 66 developing countries show that child mortality rates among the poorest 20% of the population are almost double those in the top 20%.\n\nThe situation is similar within countries as well, where the health of both girls and women is critically affected by social and economic factors. Those who are living in poverty or of lower socioeconomic status tend to perform poorly in terms of health outcomes. In almost all countries, girls and women living in wealthier households experience lower levels of mortality and higher usage of health care services than those living in the poorer households. Such socioeconomic status-related health disparities is present in every nation around the world, including developed regions.\n\nThe Fourth World Conference on Women asserts that men and women share the same right to the enjoyment of the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health. However, women are disadvantaged due to social, cultural, political and economic factors that directly influence their health and impede their access to health-related information and care. In the 2008 World Health Report, the World Health Organization stressed that strategies to improve women's health must take full account of the underlying determinants of health, particularly gender inequality. Additionally, specific socioeconomic and cultural barriers that hamper women in protecting and improving their health must also be addressed.\n\nGender mainstreaming was established as a major global strategy for the promotion of gender equality in the Beijing Platform for Action from the Fourth United Nations World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995. Gender mainstreaming is defined by the United Nations Economic and Social Council in 1997 as follows: “Mainstreaming a gender perspective is the process of assessing the implications for women and men of any planned action, including legislation, policies or programmes, in all areas and at all levels. It is a strategy for making women’s as well as men’s concerns and experiences an integral dimension of the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes in all political, economic and societal spheres so that women and men benefit equally and inequality is not perpetuated. The ultimate aim is to achieve gender equality.”\n\nOver the past few years, \"gender mainstreaming\" has become a preferred approach for achieving greater health parity between men and women. It stems from the recognition that while technical strategies are necessary, they are not sufficient in alleviating gender disparities in health unless the gender discrimination, bias and inequality that in organizational structures of governments and organizations – including health systems - are being challenged and addressed. The gender mainstreaming approach is a response to the realisation that gender concerns must be dealt with in every aspect of policy development and programming, through systematic gender analyses and the implementation of actions that address the balance of power and the distribution of resources between women and men. In order to address gender health disparities, gender mainstreaming in health employs a dual focus. First, it seeks to identify and address gender-based differences and inequalities in all health initiatives; and second, it works to implement initiatives that address women's specific health needs that are a result either of\nbiological differences between women and men (e.g. maternal health) or of gender-based\ndiscrimination in society (e.g. gender-based violence; poor access to health services).\n\nSweden’s new public health policy, which came into force in 2003, has been identified as a key example of mainstreaming gender in health policies. According to the World Health Organization, Sweden’s public health policy is designed to address not only the broader social determinants of health, but also the way in which gender is woven into the public health strategy. The policy specifically highlights its commitment to address and reduce gender-based inequalities in health.\n\nThe United Nations has identified the enhancement of women's involvement as way to achieve gender equality in the realm of education, work, and health. This is because women play critical roles as caregivers, formally and informally, in both the household and the larger community. Within the United States, an estimated 66% of all caregivers are female, with one-third of all female caregivers taking care of two or more people According to the World Health Organization, it is important that approaches and frameworks that are being implemented to address gender disparities in health acknowledge the fact that majority of the care work is provided by women. A meta-analysis of 40 different women's empowerment projects found that increased female participation have led to a broad range of quality of life improvements. These improvements include increases in women's advocacy demands and organization strengths, women-centered policy and governmental changes, and improved economic conditions for lower class women.\n\nIn Nepal, a community-based participatory intervention to identify local birthing problems and formulating strategies has been shown to be effective in reducing both neonatal and maternal mortality in a rural population. Community-based programs in Malaysia and Sri Lanka that used well-trained midwives as front-line health workers also produced rapid declines in maternal mortality.\n"}
{"id": "5358073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358073", "title": "General Assembly (Unitarian Universalist Association)", "text": "General Assembly (Unitarian Universalist Association)\n\nGeneral Assembly (GA) is an annual gathering of Unitarian Universalists of the Unitarian Universalist Association. It is held in June, in a different city in the United States every year. The last GA held outside the United States was in Quebec in 2002, after which congregations belonging to the Canadian Unitarian Council separated from the UUA. Member congregations (and three associate member organizations) send delegates and conventioneers to participate in the plenary sessions, workshops, regional gatherings, public witness events, and worship services. In recent years, attendance at each General Assembly has reached over 5,500.\n\nThe General Assembly opens with a parade of banners borne by members of and representing member churches and associated organizations. General Sessions of General Assembly consist of discussing and voting on Study Action Issues and Statements of Conscience; elections for Board of Trustees, officer and committee positions; and reports from the President, Moderator and other leaders of the UUA. A Synergy Bridging ceremony is held to congratulate graduates of individual churches' Religious Education programs.\n\nIn addition, the event is keynoted by the Ware Lectures, which are offered by individuals selected by the President in consultation with the General Assembly Planning Committee; they have been held since 1922 by the preceding American Unitarian Association in honor of Harriet E. Ware, who bequeathed $5,000 to the AUA. Previous Ware Lecturers have included Martin Luther King, Jr., Jesse Jackson, Kurt Vonnegut, and Sister Simone Campbell. The most recent Ware Lecturer was Brittany Packnett, Brittany Packnett is vice president of national community alliances for Teach for America, a co-founder of Campaign Zero, and a member of President Barack Obama's 21st Century Policing Task Force.\n\nDelegates of the General Assembly often passes a number of statements and guidances for social justice issues. Statements vary upon the description of weight for each statement:\n\nActions taken at GA meetings have included the 1984 decision to approve religious\nblessing of same-sex marriages, making the UUA the first major church to have done so.\n\nAt the 2007 General Assembly the Unitarian Universalist Association announced the new five year Comprehensive Fundraising Campaign entitled: \"Now Is The Time: a Campaign to Grow Our Faith\". The campaign funds will support programs that will encourage growth of Unitarian Universalism as a whole. These programs fall under the following categories: Growing Our Numbers, Growing Our Diversity, Growing Our Witness, Growing Our Leadership, and Growing Our Spirit.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>Future General Assemblies \n\n"}
{"id": "162600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162600", "title": "Hacktivism", "text": "Hacktivism\n\nIn Internet activism, hacktivism or hactivism (a portmanteau of \"hack\" and \"activism\") is the use of technology to promote a political agenda or a social change. With roots in hacker culture and hacker ethics, its ends are often related to the free speech, human rights, or freedom of information movements.\n\nThe term was coined in 1994 by a Cult of the Dead Cow (cDc) member known as \"Omega\" in an e-mail to the group. Due to the variety of meanings of its root words, hacktivism is sometimes ambiguous and there exists significant disagreement over the kinds of activities and purposes it encompasses. Some definitions include acts of cyberterrorism while others simply reaffirm the use of technological hacking to effect social change.\n\nHacktivist activities span many political ideals and issues. Freenet, a peer-to-peer platform for censorship-resistant communication, is a prime example of translating political thought (anybody should be able to speak freely) into code. Hacking as a form of activism can be carried out through a network of activists, such as Anonymous and WikiLeaks, or through a singular activist, working in collaboration toward a common goals without an overarching authority figure.\n\n\"Hacktivism\" is a controversial term with several meanings. The word was coined to characterize electronic direct action as working toward social change by combining programming skills with critical thinking. But just as \"hack\" can sometimes mean cyber crime, \"hacktivism\" can be used to mean activism that is malicious, destructive, and undermining the security of the Internet as a technical, economic, and political platform.\n\nDepending on who is using the term, hacktivism can be a politically motivated technology hack, a constructive form of anarchic civil disobedience, or an undefined anti-systemic gesture. It can signal anticapitalist or political protest; it can denote anti-spam activists, security experts, or open source advocates.\n\nSome people describing themselves as hacktivists have taken to defacing websites for political reasons, such as attacking and defacing government websites as well as web sites of groups who oppose their ideology. Others, such as Oxblood Ruffin (the \"foreign affairs minister\" of Cult of the Dead Cow and Hacktivismo), have argued forcefully against definitions of hacktivism that include web defacements or denial-of-service attacks.\n\nHactivism is often seen as shadowy due to its anonymity, commonly attributed to the work of fringe groups and outlying members of society. The lack of responsible parties to be held accountable for the social-media attacks performed by hactivists has created implications in corporate and federal security measures both on and offline.\n\nWhile some self-described hacktivists have engaged in DoS attacks, critics suggest that DoS attacks are an attack on free speech and that they have unintended consequences. DoS attacks waste resources and they can lead to a \"DoS war\" that nobody will win. In 2006, Blue Security attempted to automate a DoS attack against spammers; this led to a massive DoS attack against Blue Security which knocked them, their old ISP and their DNS provider off the Internet, destroying their business.\n\nFollowing denial-of-service attacks by Anonymous on multiple sites, in reprisal for the apparent suppression of WikiLeaks, John Perry Barlow, a founding member of the EFF, said \"I support freedom of expression, no matter whose, so I oppose DDoS attacks regardless of their target... they're the poison gas of cyberspace...\". On the other hand, Jay Leiderman, an attorney for many hacktivists, argues that DDoS can be a legitimate form of protest speech in situations that are reasonably limited in time, place and manner.\n\nSelf-proclaimed \"Hactivists\" often work anonymously, sometimes operating in groups while other times operating as a lone-wolf with several cyber-personas all corresponding to one activist within the cyberactivism umbrella that has been gaining public interest and power in pop-culture. Hactivists generally operate under apolitical ideals and express uninhibited ideas or abuse without being scrutinized by society while representing or defending them publicly under an anonymous identity giving them a sense of power in the cyberactivism community. \n\nIn order to carry out their operations, hacktivists might create new tools; or integrate or use a variety of software tools readily available on the Internet. One class of hacktivist activities includes increasing the accessibility of others to take politically motivated action online.\n\n\nThe earliest known instance of hacktivism as documented by Julian Assange is as follows: \"Hacktivism is at least as old as October 1989 when DOE, HEPNET and SPAN (NASA) connected VMS machines world wide were penetrated by the anti-nuclear WANK worm.\"\n\nPerhaps the most prolific and well known hacktivist group, Anonymous has been prominent and prevalent in many major online hacks over the past decade. Anonymous originated on the forums of 4chan during 2003, but didn't rise to prominence until 2008 when they directly attacked the Church of Scientology in a massive DoS attack. Since then, Anonymous has participated in a great number of online projects such as Operation: Payback and Operation: Safe Winter. However, while a great number of their projects have been for a charitable cause, they have still gained notoriety from the media due to the nature of their work mostly consisting of illegal hacking.\n\nFollowing the Paris terror attacks in 2015, Anonymous posted a video declaring war on ISIS, the terror group that claimed responsibility for the attacks. Since declaring war on ISIS, Anonymous since identified several Twitter accounts associated with the movement in order to stop the distribution of ISIS propaganda. However, Anonymous fell under heavy criticism when Twitter issued a statement calling the lists Anonymous had compiled \"wildly inaccurate,\" as it contained accounts of journalists and academics rather than members of ISIS.\n\nAnonymous has also been involved with the Black Lives Matter movement. Early in July 2015, there was a rumor circulating that Anonymous was calling for a Day of Rage protests in retaliation for the shootings of Alton Sterling and Philando Castile, which would entail violent protests and riots. This rumor was based off a video that was not posted with the official Anonymous YouTube account. None of the Twitter accounts associated with Anonymous had tweeted anything in relation to a Day of Rage, and the rumors were identical to past rumors that had circulated in 2014 following the death of Mike Brown. Instead, on July 15, a Twitter account associated with Anonymous posted a series of tweets calling for a day of solidarity with the Black Lives Matter movement. The Twitter account used the hashtag \"#FridayofSolidarity\" to coordinate protests across the nation, and emphasized the fact that the Friday of Solidarity was intended for peaceful protests. The account also stated that the group was unaware of any Day of Rage plans.\n\nIn February 2017 the group took down more than 10,000 sites on the Dark web related to child porn. \n\nWikiLeaks was founded in 2006 by Julian Assange as a \"multi-national media organization and associated library.\" WikiLeaks operated under the principle of \"principled leaking,\" in order to fight societal corruption. The not-for-profit functions as a whistleblowing organization that serves as an archive of classified documents. Originally, WikiLeaks was operated with the principles of a wiki site, meaning that users could post documents, edit others' documents, and help decide which materials were posted.\n\nThe first notable release of documents by WikiLeaks was the release of Afghanistan War logs. In July 2010, WikiLeaks published over 90,000 documents regarding the war in Afghanistan. Prior to the leak, WikiLeaks gave access to the documents to three newspapers. Though WikiLeaks did not identify a source for the documents, it was speculated that the leak came from Chelsea Manning, a U.S. Army intelligence analyst arrested in May 2010 and accused of leaking classified information. The war logs revealed 144 incidents of formerly unreported civilian casualties by the U.S. military. The leak of the Afghanistan war logs was the greatest military leak in United States history.\n\nWikiLeaks is also notable for its leak of over 20,000 confidential emails and 8,000 file attachments from the Democratic National Committee (DNC), on July 22, 2016. The emails are specifically from the inboxes of seven prominent staffers of the DNC, and they were leaked as a searchable database. The emails leaked showed instances of key DNC staffers working to undermine Senator Bernie Sanders' presidential campaign prior to primary elections, which was directly against the DNC's stated neutrality in primary elections. Examples of targeting Senator Bernie Sanders included targeting his religion, hoping for his dropping out of the race, constructing negative narratives about his campaign and more. Other emails revealed criticism of President Barack Obama for not helping more in fundraising. Following the leak, DNC chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz announced she would be stepping down from her position in the DNC. On July 25, 2016, the Democratic National Convention opened without Wasserman Schultz. The DNC issued an apology to Sanders the same day the Democratic National Convention opened.\n\nIn May 2011, five members of Anonymous formed the hacktivist group Lulz Security, otherwise known as LulzSec. LulzSec's name originated from the conjunction of the internet slang term \"lulz\", meaning laughs, and \"sec\", meaning security. The group members used specific handles to identify themselves on Internet Relay Channels, the most notable being: \"Sabu,\" \"Kayla,\" \"T-Flow,\" \"Topiary,\" \"AVUnit,\" and \"Pwnsauce.\" Though the members of LulzSec would spend up to 20 hours a day in communication, they did not know one another personally, nor did they share personal information. For example, once the members' identities were revealed, \"T-Flow\" was revealed to be 15 years old. Other members, on the basis of his advanced coding ability, thought he was around 30 years old.\n\nOne of the first notable targets that LulzSec pursued was HBGary, which was performed in response to a claim made by the technology security company that it had identified members of Anonymous. Following this, the members of LulzSec targeted an array of companies and entities, including but not limited to: Fox Television, Tribune Company, PBS, Sony, Nintendo, and the Senate.gov website. The targeting of these entities typically involved gaining access to and downloading confidential user information, or defacing the website at hand. Though the attacks carried out by LulzSec were not as strongly political as those typical of WikiLeaks or Anonymous, they shared similar sentiments for the freedom of information. One of their distinctly politically-driven attacks involved targeting the Arizona State Police in response to new immigration laws.\n\nThe group's first attack that garnered significant government attention was in 2011, when they collectively took down a website of the FBI. Following the incident, the leader of LulzSec, \"Sabu,\" was identified as Hector Xavier Monsegur by the FBI, and he was the first of the group to be arrested. Immediately following his arrest, Monsegur admitted to criminal activity. He then began his cooperation with the US government, helping FBI authorities to arrest 8 of his co-conspirators, prevent 300 potential cyber attacks, and helped to identify vulnerabilities in existing computer systems. In August 2011, Monsegur pleaded guilty to \"computer hacking conspiracy, computer hacking, computer hacking in furtherance of fraud, conspiracy to commit access device fraud, conspiracy to commit bank fraud, and aggravated identity theft pursuant to a cooperation agreement with the government.\" He served a total of one year and seven months and was charged a $1,200 fine.\n\n\"Culture jamming\" is the practice of subverting and criticizing political messages as well as media culture with the aim of challenging the status quo. It is often targeted toward subliminal thought processes taking place in the viewers with the goal of raising awareness as well as causing a paradigm shift. Culture jamming takes many forms including billboard hacking, broadcast signal intrusion, ad-hoc art performances, memes, and artivism. \n\nThe term \"culture jamming\" was first coined in 1984 by American musician Donald Joyce of the band Negativland. However, some speculation remains as to when the practice of culture jamming first began. Social researcher Vince Carducci believes culture jamming can be traced back to the 1950s with European social activist group Situationist International. Author and cultural critic Mark Dery believes medieval carnival is the earliest form of culture jamming as a way to subvert the social hierarchy at the time.\n\nCulture jamming is sometimes confused with acts of vandalism. However, unlike culture jamming, the main goal of vandalism is to cause destruction with any political themes being of lesser importance. Artivism usually has the most questionable nature as a form of culture jamming because defacement of property is usually involved.\n\n\"Media hacking\" refers to the usage of various electronic media in an innovative or otherwise abnormal fashion for the purpose of conveying a message to as large a number of people as possible, primarily achieved via the World Wide Web. A popular and effective means of media hacking is posting on a blog, as one is usually controlled by one or more independent individuals, uninfluenced by outside parties. The concept of social bookmarking, as well as Web-based Internet forums, may cause such a message to be seen by users of other sites as well, increasing its total reach.\n\nMedia hacking is commonly employed for political purposes, by both political parties and political dissidents. A good example of this is the 2008 US Election, in which both the Democratic and Republican parties used a wide variety of different media in order to convey relevant messages to an increasingly Internet-oriented audience. At the same time, political dissidents used blogs and other social media like Twitter in order to reply on an individual basis to the presidential candidates. In particular, sites like Twitter are proving important means in gauging popular support for the candidates, though the site is often used for dissident purposes rather than a show of positive support.\n\nMobile technology has also become subject to media hacking for political purposes. SMS has been widely used by political dissidents as a means of quickly and effectively organising smart mobs for political action. This has been most effective in the Philippines, where SMS media hacking has twice had a significant impact on whether or not the country's Presidents are elected or removed from office.\n\n\"Reality hacking\" is any phenomenon that emerges from the nonviolent use of illegal or legally ambiguous digital tools in pursuit of politically, socially, or culturally subversive ends. These tools include website defacements, URL redirections, denial-of-service attacks, information theft, web-site parodies, virtual sit-ins, and virtual sabotage.\n\nArt movements such as Fluxus and Happenings in the 1970s created a climate of receptibility in regard to loose-knit organizations and group activities where spontaneity, a return to primitivist behavior, and an ethics where activities and socially engaged art practices became tantamount to aesthetic concerns.\n\nThe conflation of these two histories in the mid-to-late 1990s resulted in cross-overs between virtual sit-ins, electronic civil disobedience, denial-of-service attacks, as well as mass protests in relation to groups like the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The rise of collectivies, net.art groups, and those concerned with the fluid interchange of technology and real life (often from an environmental concern) gave birth to the practice of \"reality hacking\".\n\nReality hacking relies on tweaking the everyday communications most easily available to individuals with the purpose of awakening the political and community conscience of the larger population. The term first came into use among New York and San Francisco artists, but has since been adopted by a school of political activists centered around culture jamming.\n\nThe 1999 science fiction-action film \"The Matrix\", among others, popularized the simulation hypothesis — the suggestion that reality is in fact a simulation of which those affected by the simulants are generally unaware. In this context, \"reality hacking\" is reading and understanding the code which represents the activity of the simulated reality environment (such as Matrix digital rain) and also modifying it in order to bend the laws of physics or otherwise modify the simulated reality.\n\nReality hacking as a mystical practice is explored in the Gothic-Punk aesthetics-inspired White Wolf urban fantasy role-playing game \"\". In this game, the Reality Coders (also known as Reality Hackers or Reality Crackers) are a faction within the Virtual Adepts, a secret society of mages whose magick revolves around digital technology. They are dedicated to bringing the benefits of cyberspace to real space. To do this, they had to identify, for lack of a better term, the \"source code\" that allows our Universe to function. And that is what they have been doing ever since. Coders infiltrated a number of levels of society in order to gather the greatest compilation of knowledge ever seen. One of the Coders' more overt agendas is to acclimate the masses to the world that is to come. They spread Virtual Adept ideas through video games and a whole spate of \"reality shows\" that mimic virtual reality far more than \"real\" reality. The Reality Coders consider themselves the future of the Virtual Adepts, creating a world in the image of visionaries like Grant Morrison or Terence McKenna.\n\nIn a location-based game (also known as a pervasive game), reality hacking refers to tapping into phenomena that exist in the real world, and tying them into the game story universe.\n\nThere have been various academic approaches to deal with hacktivism and urban hacking. In 2010, Günther Friesinger, Johannes Grenzfurthner and Thomas Ballhausen published an entire reader dedicated to the subject. They state: \"Urban spaces became battlefields, signifiers have been invaded, new structures have been established: Netculture replaced counterculture in most parts and also focused on the everchanging environments of the modern city. Important questions have been brought up to date and reasked, taking current positions and discourses into account. The major question still remains, namely how to create culturally based resistance under the influence of capitalistic pressure and conservative politics.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1738221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1738221", "title": "History of communism", "text": "History of communism\n\nThe history of communism encompasses a wide variety of ideologies and political movements sharing the core theoretical values of common ownership of wealth, economic enterprise and property.\n\nMost modern forms of communism are grounded at least nominally in Marxism, an ideology conceived by noted sociologist Karl Marx during the mid-19th century. Marxism subsequently gained a widespread following across much of Europe and throughout the late 1800s its militant supporters were instrumental in a number of failed revolutions on that continent. During the same era, there was also a proliferation of communist parties which rejected armed revolution, but embraced the Marxist ideal of collective property and a classless society.\n\nAlthough Marxist theory suggested that the places ripest for social revolution—either through peaceful transition or by force of arms—were industrial societies, communism was mostly successful in underdeveloped countries with endemic poverty such as the Russian Empire and the Republic of China. In 1917, the Bolshevik Party seized power during the Russian Revolution and created the Soviet Union, the world's first Marxist state. The Bolsheviks thoroughly embraced the concept of proletarian internationalism and world revolution, seeing their struggle as an international rather than a purely regional cause. This was to have a phenomenal impact on the spread of communism during the twentieth century as the Soviet Union installed new communist governments in Central and Eastern Europe following World War II and indirectly backed the ascension of others in the Americas, Asia and Africa. Pivotal to this policy was the Communist International (also simply known as the Commintern), which was formed with the perspective of aiding and assisting communist parties around the world and fostering revolution. This was one major cause of tensions during the Cold War as the United States and its military allies equated the global spread of communism with Soviet expansionism by proxy.\n\nBy 1985, one-third of the world's population lived under a communist system of government in one form or another. However, there was significant debate among communist ideologues as to whether most of these countries could be meaningfully considered Marxist at all. Many of the basic components of the Marxist system were altered and revised by various self-styled communist regimes. The failure of communist governments to live up to the ideal of a communist society as well as their general trend towards increasing authoritarianism has been linked to the decline of communism in the late 20th century. With the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, several communist states repudiated or abolished the ideology altogether. By the 21st century, only a small number of communist governments remained, namely Cuba, Vietnam and Laos. Despite retaining a nominal commitment to communism, the People's Republic of China has essentially ceased to be governed by the principles of Marxism or Maoism, reverting to an authoritarian regime with a mixed economy.\n\nFrom the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917 until 2017, demographers have estimated that self-styled communist governments have collectively claimed the lives of more than 68 million people through starvation, political purges, extrajudicial killings, forced labour camps, and violently implemented social engineering policies.\n\n\"Communism\" derives from the French \"communisme\" which developed out of the Latin roots \"communis\" and the suffix \"isme\" – and was in use as a word designating various social situations before it came to be associated with more modern conceptions of an economic and political organization. Semantically, \"communis\" can be translated to \"of or for the community\" while \"isme\" is a suffix that indicates the abstraction into a state, condition, action or doctrine, so \"communism\" may be interpreted as \"the state of being of or for the community\". This semantic constitution has led to various usages of the word in its evolution, but ultimately came to be most closely associated with Marxism, most specifically embodied in \"The Communist Manifesto\", which proposed a particular type of communism.\n\nThe term was first created in its modern definition by the French philosopher Victor d'Hupay. In his 1777 book \"Projet de communauté philosophe\", d'Hupay pushes the legacy of the Enlightenments to principles which he lived up to during most of his life in his bastide of Fuveau, Provence. His book can be seen as a backbone of communist philosophy as d'Hupay attempts a definition of this lifestyle which he calls a \"commune\" and advises to \"share all economic and material products between inhabitants of the commune, so that all may benefit from each other's work\". His friend and contemporary author Restif de la Bretonne also describes him as a \"communist\" in one of his books.\n\nMany historical groups have been considered as following forms of communism. Karl Marx and other early communist theorists believed that hunter-gatherer societies as were found in the Paleolithic were essentially egalitarian and he therefore termed their ideology to be \"primitive communism\". Early Christianity supported a form of common ownership based on the teachings in the New Testament which emphasised sharing amongst everyone. Other ancient Jewish sects, like the Essenes, also supported egalitarianism and communal living.\n\nIn Europe, during the early modern period various groups supporting communist ideas appeared. Tommaso Campanella's 1601 work \"The City of the Sun\" propagated the concept of a society where the products of society should be shared equally. Within a few centuries, during the English Civil War various groups on the side of the Roundheads propagated the redistribution of wealth on an egalitarian basis, namely the Levellers and the Diggers. In the 18th century, the French philosopher Jean Jacques Rousseau in his hugely influential \"The Social Contract\" (1762) outlined the basis for a political order based on popular sovereignty rather than the rule of monarchs. His views proved influential during the French Revolution of 1789 in which various anti-monarchists, particularly the Jacobins, supported the idea of redistributing wealth equally among the people, including Jean-Paul Marat and Gracchus Babeuf. The latter was involved in the Conspiracy of the Equals of 1796 intending to establish a revolutionary regime based on communal ownership, egalitarianism and the redistribution of property. However, the plot was detected and he and several others involved were arrested and executed. Despite this setback, the example of the French Revolutionary regime and Babeuf's doomed insurrection was an inspiration for radical French thinkers such as Compte Henri de Saint Simon, Louis Blanc, Charles Fourier and Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, who declared that \"Property is theft!\". By the 1830s and 1840s the egalitarian concepts of communism and the related ideas of socialism had become widely popular in French revolutionary circles thanks to the writings of social critics and philosophers such as Pierre Leroux and Théodore Dézamy whose critiques of bourgeoisie liberalism led to a widespread intellectual rejection of laissez-faire capitalism on both economic, philosophical, and moral grounds.\n\nImportantly one of Babeuf's co-conspirators, Philippe Buonarroti, survived the crackdown on the Conspiracy of the Equals, and went on to write the influential book \"Babuef's Conspiracy for Equality\" first published in 1828. Buonarroti's works and teachings went on to inspire early Babouvist communist groups such as the Christian Communist League of the Just in 1836 led by Wilhelm Weitling which would later be merged with the Communist Correspondence Committee in Brussels. This merger of the two groups in 1847 formed the Communist League, headed by German socialist labour leader Karl Schapper who then that same year tasked two founding members, Karl Marx and Fredrick Engels to write a manifesto laying out the principles of the new political party. \n\nIn the 1840s, a German philosopher and sociologist named Karl Marx (1818–1883), who was living in England after fleeing the authorities in the German states, where he was considered a political threat, began publishing books in which he outlined his theories for a variety of communism now known as Marxism. Marx was financially aided and supported by another German émigré, Friedrich Engels (1820–1895), who like Marx had fled from the German authorities in 1849. Marx and Engels took on many influences from earlier philosophers and politically they were influenced by Maximilien Robespierre and several other radical figures of the French Revolution, whilst economically they were influenced by David Ricardo and philosophically they were influenced by Hegel. Engels regularly met Marx at Chetham's Library in Manchester, England from 1845 and the alcove where they met remains identical to this day. It was here that Engels relayed his experiences of industrial Manchester, chronicled in the \"Condition of the Working Class in England\", highlighting the struggles of the working class.\n\nMarx stated that \"the history of all hitherto existing society is the history of class struggles\", something that he believed was happening between the bourgeoisie (the select few upper class and upper middle class) who then controlled society and the proletariat (the working class masses) who toiled to produce everything but who had no political control. He purported the idea that human society moved through a series of progressive stages from primitive communism through to slavery, feudalism and then capitalism – and that this in turn would be replaced by communism. Therefore, for Marx communism was seen as inevitable, as well as desirable.\n\nMarx founded the Communist Correspondence Committee in 1846 through which the various communists, socialists and other leftists across Europe could keep in contact with one another in the face of political repression. He then published \"The Communist Manifesto\" in 1848, which would prove to be one of the most influential communist texts ever written. He subsequently began work on a multi-volume epic that would examine and criticise the capitalist economy and the effect that it had upon politics, society and philosophy—the first volume of the work, which was known as \"\", was published in 1869. However, Marx and Engels were not only interested in writing about communism, as they were also active in supporting revolutionary activity that would lead to the creation of communist governments across Europe. They helped to found the International Workingmen's Association, which would later become known as the First International, to unite various communists and socialists – and Marx was elected to the Association's General Council.\n\nDuring the latter half of the 19th century, various left-wing organisations across Europe continued to campaign against the many autocratic right-wing regimes that were then in power. In France in 1871, socialists set up a government known as the Paris Commune after the fall of Napoleon III, but they were soon overthrown and many of their members executed by counter-revolutionaries. Meanwhile, Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels joined the German Social-Democratic Party, which had been created in 1875, but which was outlawed in 1879 by the German government, then led by Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, who deemed it to be a political threat due to its revolutionary nature and increasing number of supporters. In 1890, the party was re-legalised and by this time it had fully adopted Marxist principles. It subsequently achieved a fifth of the vote in the German elections and some of its leaders, such as August Bebel and Wilhelm Liebknecht, became well-known public figures.\n\nAt the time, Marxism took off not only in Germany, but it also gained popularity in Hungary, the Habsburg Monarchy and the Netherlands, although it did not achieve such success in other European nations like the United Kingdom, where Marx and Engels had been based. Nonetheless, the new political ideology had gained sufficient support that an organisation was founded known as the Second International to unite the various Marxist groups around the world.\nHowever, as Marxism took off it also began to come under criticism from other European intellectuals, including fellow socialists and leftists. For instance, the Russian collectivist anarchist Mikhail Bakunin criticised what he believed were the flaws in the Marxian theory that the state would eventually dissolve under a Marxist government, instead he believed that the state would gain in power and become authoritarian. Criticism also came from other sociologists, such as the German Max Weber, who whilst admiring Marx disagreed with many of his assumptions on the nature of society. Some Marxists tried to adapt to these criticisms and the changing nature of capitalism and Eduard Bernstein emphasised the idea of Marxists bringing legal challenges against the current administrations over the treatment of the working classes rather than simply emphasising violent revolution as more orthodox Marxists did. Other Marxists opposed Bernstein and other revisionists, with many including Karl Kautsky, Otto Bauer, Rudolf Hilferding, Rosa Luxemburg, Vladimir Lenin and Georgi Plekhanov sticking steadfast to the concept of violently overthrowing what they saw as the bourgeoisie-controlled government and instead establishing a \"dictatorship of the proletariat\".\n\nThe Comintern's historical existence is divided among periods, regarding changes in the general policy it followed.\n\nAt the start of the 20th century, the Russian Empire was an autocracy controlled by Tsar Nicholas II, with millions of the country's largely agrarian population living in abject poverty and the anti-communist historian Robert Service noted that \"poverty and oppression constituted the best soil for Marxism to grow in\". The man responsible for largely introducing the ideology into the country was Georgi Plekhanov, although the movement itself was largely organised by a man known as Vladimir Lenin, who had for a time been exiled to a prison camp in Siberia by the Tsarist government for his beliefs. A Marxist group known as the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party was formed in the country, although it soon divided into two main factions: the Bolsheviks led by Lenin and the Mensheviks led by Julius Martov. In 1905, there was a revolution against the Tsar's rule, in which workers' councils known as \"soviets\" were formed in many parts of the country and the Tsar was forced to implement democratic reform, introducing an elected government, the Duma.\n\nIn 1917, with further social unrest against the Duma and its part in involving Russia in the First World War, the Bolsheviks took power in the October Revolution. They subsequently began remodelling the country based upon communist principles, nationalising various industries and confiscating land from wealthy aristocrats and redistributing it amongst the peasants. They subsequently pulled out of the war against Germany by signing the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, which was unpopular amongst many in Russia for it gave away large areas of land to Germany. From the outset, the new government faced resistance from a myriad of forces with differing perspectives, including anarchists, social democrats, who took power in the Democratic Republic of Georgia, Socialist-Revolutionaries, who formed the Komuch in Samara, Russia, scattered tsarist resistance forces known as the White Guard, as well as Western powers. This led to the events of the Russian civil war, which the Bolsheviks won and subsequently consolidated their power over the entire country, centralising power from the Kremlin in the capital city of Moscow. In 1922, the Russian SFS Republic was officially redesignated to be the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, whilst in 1924 Lenin resigned as leader of the Soviet Union due to poor health and soon died, with Joseph Stalin subsequently taking over control.\n\nIn 1919, the Bolshevik government in Russia organised the creation of an international communist organisation that would act as the Third International after the collapse of the Second International in 1916 – this was known as the Communist International, although was commonly abbreviated as Comintern. Throughout its existence, Comintern would be dominated by the Kremlin despite its internationalist stance. Meanwhile, in 1921 the Soviet Union invaded its neighboring Mongolia to aid a popular uprising against the Chinese who then controlled the country, instituting a Marxist government, which declared the nation to be the Mongolian People's Republic in 1924.\n\nComintern and other such Soviet-backed communist groups soon spread across much of the world, though particularly in Europe, where the influence of the recent Russian Revolution was still strong. In Germany, the Spartacist uprising took place in 1919, when armed communists supported rioting workers, but the government put the rebellion down violently with the use of a right-wing paramilitary group, the Freikorps, with many noted German communists, such as Rosa Luxemburg, being killed. Within a few months, a group of communists seized power amongst public unrest in the German region of Bavaria, forming the Bavarian Soviet Republic, although once more this was put down violently by the Freikorps, who historians believe killed around 1200 communists and their sympathisers.\n\nThat same year, political turmoil in Hungary following their defeat in the First World War led to a coalition government of the Social Democratic Party and the Communist Party taking control. The communists, led by Bela Kun, soon became dominant and instituted various communist reforms in the country, but the country was subsequently invaded by its neighbouring Romania within a matter of months who overthrew the government, with the communist leaders either escaping abroad or being executed. In 1921, a communist revolt against the government occurred whilst supportive factory workers were on strike in Turin and Milan in northern Italy, but the government acted swiftly and put down the rebellion. That same year, a further communist rebellion took place in Germany only to be crushed, but another occurred in 1923 which once again was also defeated by the government. The communists of Bulgaria had also attempted an uprising in 1923, but like most of their counterparts across Europe they were defeated.\n\nCommunist parties were tight knit organizations that exerted tight control over the members. To reach sympathisers unwilling to join the party, front organizations were created that advocated party-approved positions. The Comintern, under the leadership of Grigory Zinoviev in the Kremlin, established fronts in many countries in the 1920s and after. To coordinate their activities, the Comintern set up various international umbrella organizations (linking groups across national borders), such as the Young Communist International (youth), Profintern (trade unions), Krestintern (peasants), International Red Aid (humanitarian aid), Sportintern (organized sports), etc. In Europe, front organizations were especially influential in Italy and France, which in 1933 became the base for Communist front organizer Willi Münzenberg. These organizations were dissolved the late 1930s or early 1940s.\n\nThe Pan-Pacific Trade Union Secretariat (PPTUS) was set up in 1927 by the Profintern (the Comintern's trade union arm) with the mission of promoting communist trade unions in China, Japan, Korea, the Philippines, Australia, New Zealand and other nations in the western Pacific. Trapeznik (2009) says the PPTUS was a \"Communist-front organization\" and \"engaged in overt and covert political agitation in addition to a number of clandestine activities\".\n\nThere were numerous Communist front organizations in Asia, many oriented to students and youth. In Japan in the labor union movement of the 1920s, according to one historian, \"The Hyogikai never called itself a communist front but in effect, this was what it was.\" He points out it was repressed by the government \"along with other communist front groups\". In the 1950s, Scalapino argues, \"The primary Communist-front organization was the Japan Peace Committee\". It was founded in 1949.\n\nIn 1924, Joseph Stalin, a key Bolshevik follower of Lenin, took power in the Soviet Union. He was supported in his leadership by Nikolai Bukharin, but had various important opponents in the government, most notably Leon Trotsky, Grigory Zinoviev and Lev Kamenev. Stalin initiated his own process of building a communist society, creating a variant of communism known as Stalinism and as a part of this he abandoned some of the capitalist, free market policies that had been allowed to continue under Lenin, such as the New Economic Policy. He radically altered much of the Soviet Union's agricultural production, modernising it by introducing tractors and other machinery, by forced collectivisation of the farms, by forced collection of grains from the peasants in accordance with predecided targets. There was food available for industrial workers, but those peasants who refused to move starved especially in the Ukraine. The Communist Party targeted \"Kulaks\", who owned a little land.\n\nStalin took control of the Comintern, and introduced a policy in the international organisation of opposing all leftists who were not Marxists, labelling them to be \"social-fascists\", although many communists, such as Jules Humbert-Droz, disagreed with him on this policy, believing that the left should unite against the rise of right wing movements like fascism across Europe. In the early 1930s, Stalin reversed course and promoted \"popular front\" movements whereby communist parties would collaborate with Socialists and other political forces. A high priority was mobilizing wide support for the Republican cause in the Spanish Civil War.\n\nThe \"Great Terror\" mainly operated from December 1936 to November 1938, although the features of arrest and summary trial followed by execution were well entrenched in the Soviet system since the days of Lenin, as Stalin systematically destroyed the older generation of pre-1918 leaders, usually on the grounds they were enemy spies or simply because they were \"enemies of the people\". In the Red Army, a majority of generals were executed and hundreds of thousands of other \"enemies\" were sent to the gulag, where terrible conditions in Siberia led quickly to death.\n\nThe International Right Opposition and Trotskyism are examples of dissidents who still claim communism today, but they are not the only ones. In Germany, the split in the SPD had initially led to a variety of Communist unions and parties forming, which included the councilist tendencies of the AAU-D, AAU-E and KAPD. Councilism had a limited impact outside of Germany, but a number of international organisations formed. In Spain, a fusion of Left and Right dissidents led to the formation of the POUM. Additionally, in Spain the CNT was associated with the development of the FAI political party, a non-Marxist party which stood for revolutionary communism.\n\nAs the Cold War took effect around 1947, the Kremlin set up new international coordination bodies including the World Federation of Democratic Youth, the International Union of Students, the World Federation of Trade Unions, the Women's International Democratic Federation and the World Peace Council. Kennedy says the, \"Communist 'front' system included such international organizations as the WFTU, WFDY, IUS, WIDF and WPC, besides a host of lesser bodies bringing journalists, lawyers, scientists, doctors and others into the widespread net\".\n\nThe World Federation of Trade Unions (WFTU) was established in 1945 to unite trade union confederations across the world; it was based in Prague. While it had non-communist unions it was largely dominated by the Soviets. In 1949 the British, American and other non-Communist unions broke away to form the rival International Confederation of Free Trade Unions. The labor movement in Europe became so polarized between the communists unions and social democratic and Christian labor unions, whereas front operations could no longer hide the sponsorship and they became less important.\n\nThe devastation of the war resulted in a massive recovery program involving the rebuilding of industrial plants, housing and transportation, as well as the demobilization and migration of millions of soldiers and civilians. In the midst of this turmoil during the winter of 1946–1947, the Soviet Union experienced the worst natural famine in the 20th century. There was no serious opposition to Stalin, as the secret police continued to send possible suspects to the gulag.\n\nRelations with the United States and Britain went from friendly to hostile, as they denounced Stalin's political controls over eastern Europe and his blockade of Berlin. By 1947, the Cold War had begun. Stalin himself believed that capitalism was a hollow shell and would crumble under increased non-military pressure exerted through proxies in countries like Italy. He greatly underestimated the economic strength of the West and instead of triumph saw the West build up alliances that were designed to permanently stop or \"contain\" Soviet expansion. In early 1950, Stalin gave the go-ahead for North Korea's invasion of South Korea, expecting a short war. He was stunned when the Americans entered and defeated the North Koreans, putting them almost on the Soviet border. Stalin supported China's entry into the Korean war, which drove the Americans back to the prewar boundaries, but which escalated tensions. The United States decided to mobilize its economy for a long contest with the Soviets, built the hydrogen bomb and strengthened the NATO alliance that covered Western Europe.\n\nAccording to Gorlizki and Khlevniuk (2004), Stalin's consistent and overriding goal after 1945 was to consolidate the nation's superpower status and in the face of his growing physical decrepitude to maintain his own hold on total power. Stalin created a leadership system that reflected historic czarist styles of paternalism and repression, yet was also quite modern. At the top, personal loyalty to Stalin counted for everything. However, Stalin also created powerful committees, elevated younger specialists and began major institutional innovations. In the teeth of persecution, Stalin's deputies cultivated informal norms and mutual understandings which provided the foundations for collective rule after his death.\n\nThe military success of the Red Army in Central and Eastern Europe led to a consolidation of power in communist hands. In some cases, such as Czechoslovakia, this led to an enthusiastic support for socialism inspired by the Communist Party and a Social Democratic Party willing to fuse. In other cases, such as Poland or Hungary, the fusion of the Communist Party with the Social Democratic party was forcible and accomplished through undemocratic means. In many cases, the communist parties of Central Europe were faced with a population initially quite willing to reign in market forces, institute limited nationalisation of industry and supporting the development of intensive social welfare states, whereas broadly the population largely supported socialism. However, the purges of non-communist parties which supported socialism, combined with forced collectivisation of agriculture and a Soviet-bloc wide recession in 1953 led to deep unrest. This unrest first surfaced in Berlin in 1953, where Brecht ironically suggested that the Party ought to elect a new People. However, Khrushchev's Secret Speech of 1956 opened up internal debate, even if members were unaware, in both the Polish and Hungarian Communist Parties. This led to the Polish Crisis of 1956 which was resolved through change in Polish leadership and a negotiation between the Soviet and Polish parties over the direction of the Polish economy.\n\nThe Hungarian Revolution of 1956 was a major challenge to Moscow's control of Eastern Europe. This revolution saw general strikes, the formation of independent workers councils, the restoration of the Social Democratic Party as a party for revolutionary communism of a non-Soviet variety and the formation of two underground independent communist parties. The mainstream Communist Party was controlled for a period of about a week by non-Soviet aligned leaders. Two non-communist parties which supported the maintenance of socialism also regained their independence. This flowering of dissenting communism was crushed by a combination of a military invasion supported by heavy artillery and airstrikes; mass arrests, at least a thousand juridical executions and an uncounted number of summary executions; the crushing of the Central Workers Council of Greater Budapest; mass refugee flight; and a worldwide propaganda campaign. The effect of the Hungarian Revolution on other communist parties varied significantly, resulting in large membership losses in Anglophone communist parties.\n\nThe Czechoslovak Communist Party began an ambitious reform agenda under Alexander Dubček. The plan to limit central control and make the economy more independent of the party threatened bedrock beliefs. On 20 August 1968, Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev ordered a massive military invasion by Warsaw Pact forces that destroyed the threat of internal liberalization. At the same time, the Soviets threatened retaliation against the British-French-Israeli invasion of Egypt. The upshot was a collapse of any tendency toward détente, and the resignations of more intellectuals from Parties in the West.\n\nWest Germany (and West Berlin) were centers of East-West conflict during the Cold War and numerous communist fronts were established. For example, the Society for German–Soviet Friendship (GfDSF) had 13,000 members in West Germany, but it was banned in 1953 by some Länder as a communist front. The Democratic Cultural League of Germany started off as a series of genuinely pluralistic bodies, but in 1950–1951 came under the control of communists. By 1952, the U.S. Embassy counted 54 \"infiltrated organizations\", which started independently, as well as 155 \"front organizations\", which had been Communist inspired from their start.\n\nThe Association of the Victims of the Nazi Regime was set up to rally West Germans under the antifascist banner, but had to be dissolved when Moscow discovered it had been infiltrated by \"Zionist agents\".\n\nMao Zedong and the Communist Party came to power in China in 1949, as the Nationalists fled to the island of Taiwan. In 1950–1953, China engaged in a large-scale but undeclared war with the United States, South Korea and United Nations forces in the Korean War. It ended in a military stalemate, but it gave Mao the opportunity to identify and purge elements in China that seemed supportive of capitalism. At first there was close cooperation with Stalin, who sent in technical experts to aid the industrialization process along the line of the Soviet model of the 1930s. After Stalin's death in 1953, relations with Moscow soured—Mao thought Stalin's successors had betrayed the Communist ideal. Mao charged that Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev was the leader of a \"revisionist clique\" which had turned against Marxism and Leninism was now setting the stage for the restoration of capitalism. The two nations were at sword's point by 1960. Both began forging alliances with communist supporters around the globe, thereby splitting the worldwide movement into two hostile camps.\n\nRejecting the Soviet model of rapid urbanization, Mao Zedong and his top aide Deng Xiaoping launched the \"Great Leap Forward\" in 1957–1961 with the goal of industrializing China overnight, using the peasant villages as the base rather than large cities. Private ownership of land ended and the peasants worked in large collective farms that were now ordered to start up heavy industry operations, such as steel mills. Plants were built in remote locations, despite the lack of technical experts, managers, transportation or needed facilities. Industrialization failed, but the main result was a sharp unexpected decline in agricultural output, which led to mass famine and millions of deaths. The years of the Great Leap Forward in fact saw economic regression, with 1958 through 1961 being the only years between 1953 and 1983 in which China's economy saw negative growth. Political economist Dwight Perkins argues, \"Enormous amounts of investment produced only modest increases in production or none at all. […] In short, the Great Leap was a very expensive disaster\". Deng, put in charge of rescuing the economy, adopted pragmatic policies that the idealistic Mao disliked. Mao for a while was in the shadows, but he returned to center stage and purged Deng and his allies in the \"cultural revolution\" (1966–1969).\n\nFollowing the Second World War, Trotskyism was wracked by increasing internal divisions over analysis and strategy. This was combined with an industrial impotence that was widely recognised. Additionally, the success of Soviet-aligned parties in Europe and Asia led to the persecution of Trotskyite intellectuals, such as the infamous purge of Vietnamese Trotskyists. The war had also strained social democratic parties in the West. In some cases, such as Italy, significant bodies of membership of the Social Democratic Party were inspired by the possibility of achieving advanced socialism. In Italy this group, combined with dissenting communists, began to discuss theory centred on the experience of work in modern factories, leading to Autonomist Marxism. In the United States, this theoretical development was paralleled by the Johnston-Forrest tendency, whereas in France a similar impulse occurred.\n\nThe Cultural Revolution was an upheaval that targeted intellectuals and party leaders from 1966 through 1976. Mao's goal was to purify communism by removing pro-capitalists and traditionalists by imposing Maoist orthodoxy within the Communist Party. The movement paralyzed China politically and weakened the country economically, culturally and intellectually for years. Millions of people were accused, humiliated, stripped of power and either imprisoned, killed or most often sent to work as farm laborers. Mao insisted that these \"revisionists\" be removed through violent class struggle. The two most prominent militants were Marshall Lin Biao of the army and Mao's wife Jiang Qing. China's youth responded to Mao's appeal by forming Red Guard groups around the country. The movement spread into the military, urban workers and the Communist Party leadership itself. It resulted in widespread factional struggles in all walks of life. In the top leadership, it led to a mass purge of senior officials who were accused of taking a \"capitalist road\", most notably Liu Shaoqi and Deng Xiaoping. During the same period, Mao's personality cult grew to immense proportions. After Mao's death in 1976, the survivors were rehabilitated and many returned to power.\n\nThe Cuban Revolution was a successful armed revolt led by Fidel Castro's 26th of July Movement against the regime of Cuban dictator Fulgencio Batista. It ousted Batista on 1 January 1959, replacing his regime with Castro's revolutionary government. Castro's government later reformed along communist lines, becoming the present Communist Party of Cuba in October 1965. The United States response was highly negative, leading to a failed invasion attempt in 1961. The Soviets decided to protect its ally by stationing nuclear weapons in Cuba in 1962. In the Cuban Missile Crisis, the United States vehemently opposed the Soviet Union move. There was serious fear of nuclear war for a few days, but a compromise was reached by which Moscow publicly removed its weapons and the United States secretly removed its from bases in Turkey and promised never to invade.\n\nDuring the Decolonization of Africa, the Soviet Union took a keen interest in that continent's independence movements and initially hoped that the cultivation of communist client states there would deny their economic and strategic resources to the West. Soviet foreign policy with regards to Africa assumed that newly independent African governments would be receptive to Marxist ideology and that the Soviets would have the resources to make them attractive as development partners. During the 1970s, the ruling parties of several sub-Saharan African states formally embraced communism, including Burkina Faso, the People's Republic of Benin, the People's Republic of Mozambique, the People's Republic of the Congo, the People's Democratic Republic of Ethiopia and the People's Republic of Angola. Most of these regimes ensured the selective adoption and flexible application of Marxist theory set against a broad ideological commitment to Marxism or Leninism. The adoption of communism was often seen as a means to an end and used to justify the extreme centralization of power. \n\nAngola was perhaps the only African state which made a longstanding commitment to orthodox Marxism, but this was severely hampered by its own war-burdened economy, rampant corruption and practical realities which allowed a few foreign companies to wield considerable influence despite the elimination of the domestic Angolan private sector and a substantial degree of central economic planning. Both Angola and Ethiopia built new social and political communist institutions modeled closely after those in the Soviet Union and Cuba. However, after the collapse of the Soviet Union their regimes either dissolved due to civil conflict or voluntarily repudiated communism in favour of social democracy.\n\nAn important trend in several countries in Western Europe from the late 1960s into the 1980s was \"Eurocommunism\". It was strongest in Spain's PCE, Finland's party and especially in Italy's PCI, where it drew on the ideas of Antonio Gramsci. It was developed by members of the Communist Party who were disillusioned with both the Soviet Union and China and sought an independent program. They accepted liberal parliamentary democracy and free speech, as well as with some conditions accepted a capitalist market economy. They did not speak of the destruction of capitalism, but sought to win the support of the masses and by a gradual transformation of the bureaucracies. In 1978, Spain's PCE replaced the historic \"Marxist–Leninist\" catchphrase with the new slogan, \"Marxist, democratic and revolutionary\". The movement faded in the 1980s and collapsed with the fall of communism in Eastern Europe in 1989.\n\nWith the fall of the communist governments in the Soviet Union and the eastern bloc, the power that the state-based Marxist ideologies held on the world was weakened, but there are still many communist movements of various types and sizes around the world. Three other communist nations, particularly those in eastern Asia, the People's Republic of China, Vietnam and Laos, all moved toward market economies, but without major privatization of the state sector during the 1980s and 1990s (see Socialism with Chinese characteristics and doi moi for more details). Spain, France, Portugal and Greece have very publicly strong communist movements that play an open and active leading role in the vast majority of their labor marches and strikes, as well as also anti-austerity protests, all of which are large, pronounced events with much visibility. Also, worldwide marches on International Workers Day sometimes give a clearer picture of the size and influence of current communist movements, particularly within Europe.\n\nCuba has recently emerged from the crisis sparked by the fall of the Soviet Union given the growth in its volume of trade with its new allies Venezuela and China (the former of whom has recently adopted a \"socialism of the 21st century\" according to Hugo Chavez). Various other countries throughout South and Latin America have also taken similar shifts to more clearly socialistic policies and rhetoric in a phenomenon academics are calling the \"pink tide\".\n\nNorth Korea has had less success in coping with the collapse of the Soviet bloc than its counterparts, which led that government to \"supersede\" its original Marxism–Leninism with an ideology called Juche. However, Cuba does apparently have an ambassador to North Korea and China still protects North Korean territorial integrity even as it simultaneously refuses to supply the state with material goods or other significant assistance.\n\nIn Nepal, the Communist Party of Nepal (Unified Marxist–Leninist) leader Man Mohan Adhikari briefly became Prime Minister and national leader from 1994 to 1995 and the Maoist guerrilla leader Prachanda was elected Prime Minister by the Constituent Assembly of Nepal in 2008. Prachanda has since been deposed as Prime Minister, leading the Maoists to abandon their legalistic approach and return to their typical street actions and militancy and to lead sporadic general strikes using their quite substantial influence on the Nepalese labor movement. These actions have oscillated between mild and intense, only the latter of which tends to make world news. They consider Prachanda's removal to be unjust.\n\nThe previous national government of India depended on the parliamentary support of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and CPI(M) leads the state governments in West Bengal, Kerala and Tripura. The armed wing of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) is fighting a war against the government of India and is active in half the country, but the Indian government has recently declared the Maoists its chief objective to eliminate.\n\nIn Cyprus, the veteran communist Dimitris Christofias of AKEL won the 2008 presidential election.\n\nIn Moldova, the communist party won the 2001, 2005 and 2009 parliamentary elections. However, the April 2009 Moldovan elections results, in which the communists supposedly won a third time, were massively protested (including an attack on the Parliament and Presidency buildings by angry crowds) and another round was held on July 29 in which three opposition parties (the Liberals, Liberal-Democrats and Democrats) won and formed the Alliance for European Integration. However, failing to elect the president, new parliamentary elections were held in November 2010 which resulted in roughly the same representation in the Parliament. According to Ion Marandici, a Moldovan political scientist, the Moldovan communists differ from those in other countries because they managed to appeal to the ethnic minorities and the anti-Romanian Moldovans. After tracing the adaptation strategy of the Party of Communists from Moldova, he finds confirming evidence for five of the factors contributing to the electoral success, already mentioned in the theoretical literature on former communist parties: the economic situation, the weakness of the opponents, the electoral laws, the fragmentation of the political spectrum and the legacy of the old regime. However, Marandici identified seven additional explanatory factors at work in the Moldovan case: the foreign support for certain political parties, separatism, the appeal to the ethnic minorities, the alliance-building capacity, the reliance on the Soviet notion of the Moldovan identity, the state-building process and the control over a significant portion of the media. It is due to these seven additional factors that the successor party in Moldova managed to consolidate and expand its constituency. According to Marandici, in the post-Soviet area the Moldovan communists are the only ones who have been in power for so long and did not change the name of the party.\n\nIn Ukraine and Russia, the communists came second in the 2002 and 2003 elections, respectively. The party remains strong in Russia, but in Ukraine following the 2014 Russian invasion of Ukraine and Annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation the Ukrainian parliamentary election, 2014 resulted in the loss of its 32 members and no parliamentary representation by the Communist Party of Ukraine.\n\nIn the Czech Republic, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia came third in the 2002 elections, as did the Communist Party of Portugal in 2005.\n\nIn South Africa, the South African Communist Party (SACP) is a member of the Tripartite alliance alongside the African National Congress and the Congress of South African Trade Unions. Sri Lanka has communist ministers in their national governments.\n\nIn Zimbabwe, former President Robert Mugabe of the Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front, the country's longstanding leader, is a professed Marxist.\n\nColombia is in the midst of a civil war which has been waged since 1966 between the Colombian government and aligned rightwing paramilitaries against two communist guerrilla groups: the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia–People's Army (FARC–EP) and the National Liberation Army (ELN).\n\nThe Philippines is still experiencing a low scale guerrilla insurgency by the New People's Army.\n\nThese\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23945235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23945235", "title": "Institute for Election Systems Development", "text": "Institute for Election Systems Development\n\nThe Institute for Election Systems Development (IESD) is an organization founded in 1999 to promote democracy in Russia.\n\nIESD was founded in 1999 as the International Foundation for Electoral Systems withdrew from Russia. IESD inherited both the programs started by IFES and IFES's Election Resource Center, a group of references created to support the Central Election Commission of Russia.\n\nAccording to their website IESD:\n\n\nIn achieve these goals they, according to their website:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "451726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=451726", "title": "Jews for Israeli–Palestinian Peace", "text": "Jews for Israeli–Palestinian Peace\n\nJews for Israeli–Palestinian Peace (), abbreviated as JIPF, is a group founded by Swedish Jews in 1982 in Stockholm, Sweden, after the Israeli invasion of Lebanon.\n\nJIPF states that they want to work for a \"fair and lasting peace\" in the conflict between Israelis and Palestinians, based on national self-determination and independence for the both peoples. Its political programme include demands for a creation of a Palestinian state, Israel's withdrawal from all territories occupied in 1967, the dismantlement of Israeli settlements and that the Palestinian refugee question must be based on the principle of the right of return or economic compensation.\n\nDror Feiler is the chairman of the organization. Other members includes Izzy Young, the journalist Annika Thor and the pediatrician Henry Ascher.\n\n"}
{"id": "2184028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2184028", "title": "Johnny Abbes García", "text": "Johnny Abbes García\n\nJohnny Abbes García (1924, Santo Domingo – 1967, Haiti) was the chief of the governmental intelligence office – the \"Servicio de Inteligencia Militar\" (Military Intelligence Service) – during the Rafael Trujillo dictatorship in the Dominican Republic. He ruled under Trujillo during the end of his era, and later served Duvalier in Haiti.\n\nAbbes was born in 1924 in Santo Domingo, the son of a German American accountant and a Dominican woman. As a young man he was interested in sports, and one of his first jobs was as a sports reporter. In the mid-fifties, he moved to Mexico, where he worked as an official in the Dominican embassy. He started to gather information on anti-Trujillo dissidents and relayed this information to the island. Abbes also studied the technical aspects of spying and intelligence gathering. In 1956 he returned to the Dominican Republic and, after Trujillo's half-brother Nene introduced him to the dictator, quickly rose to power.\n\nIn 1958 he became the head of the newly created Servicio de Inteligencia Militar (SIM) and the chief planner of assassinations of the regime's adversaries abroad. SIM employed thousands of people and was involved in immigration, passports, censorship, supervision of aliens, and undercover work, including foreign operations. Thus he was instrumental in the two attempts to kill Venezuela's then-president Rómulo Betancourt; first there was an attack on Betancourt in the streets of Havana to inject him with poison, later a car bomb blew up his Cadillac in Caracas, killing the driver and a bystander, while Betancourt survived.\n\nAfter Trujillo's assassination in May 1961, Abbes moved quickly to hunt down the assassins. Trujillo's son, Ramfis Trujillo, returned from Paris, supposedly with the help of Abbes, and attempted to step into the place of his father, but his attempt ultimately failed, and he left the country, together with most members of the Trujillo family, later that year. Following the Trujillos' departure, President Joaquín Balaguer appointed Abbes consul to Japan, but Abbes soon left the post and spent several years in Europe. He returned to the Caribbean in 1966, moving to Haiti, where he worked for then-President François 'Papa Doc' Duvalier as a security advisor. Abbes disappeared in June 1967. According to journalist Bernard Diedrich, Abbes and his wife had come under suspicion for plotting against Duvalier, but the reasons for his disappearance, and those responsible, remain unknown.\n\nMario Vargas Llosa's historical novel about Trujillo and his regime, \"The Feast of the Goat\", devotes much space to Abbes.\n\n"}
{"id": "35590381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35590381", "title": "Justice and the Market", "text": "Justice and the Market\n\nJustice and the market is an ethical perspective based upon the allocation of scarce resources within a society. The allocation of resources depends upon governmental policies and the societal attitudes of the individuals who exist within the society. Personal perspectives are based upon ones circle of moral concern or those who the individual deems worthy of moral consideration.\n\nPhilosophers, economists and politicians have sought to answer the question of which members of society deserve material rewards and how to decide what deserving is based upon. Perspectives of distributive justice vary from collectivism to extreme self-sufficiency; these perspectives vary between the importance of the group or individual respectively. Positions on distributive justice incorporate moral and political philosophies to form the extremes of communism (left wing) and libertarianism (right-wing) that exist on a continuum scale.\n\n20th century philosopher John Rawls attempted to create a thought experiment that would allow for the consideration of a societal design that is best for all involved. Mechanisms of redistribution vary among countries and governmental roles within societies determine the redistributive mechanisms that are used.\n\nDistributive justice relates to the principle of fairness in the allocation of wealth, income, power and opportunities. Many theoretical paradigms have been developed to approach distributive justice such as Adam Smith’s invisible hand, Karl Marx’s Socialist view of Communism and John Rawls Original position on Inequality.\n\nThe Libertarian philosophy refers to freedom, and particularly individual liberty which dictates the right and ability to govern one's self. In an economic sense the libertarian view assumes a free market, left to its own accord, is a fair market and that redistributive taxation is unjust. Many libertarian schools of thought exist with differing views on many principles, such as the role of government in the market place.\n\nAdam Smith's idea of the invisible hand was a founding contribution to explain resource allocation within a society. The invisible hand metaphor portrayed an aggregated market created by the self-interest of those involved, and grounded in the notion that through fulfillment of one's own aspirations, society would benefit. This idea formed the foundation of laissez-faire economic philosophy and subsequent neoclassical economics, where Milton Friedman’s ideas about economic systems lay. The free market originated from the concept of the invisible hand, and eventuates in a meritocratic society with resources allocated on the basis of merit. Modern representations of this exemplify perfect free market capitalism.\n\nThe invisible hand approach, or pure free market capitalism, assumes that a competitive market allocates resources in an appropriate manner, however Stephen LeRoy highlighted the debate that ensued following the recent financial crisis upon whether this assumption holds true for modern economies. Thorstein Veblen in The Theory of the Leisure Class (1899) argued that some wealth is conspicuously consumed to display success to others. This proclivity to purchase luxury goods has been viewed as an inefficiency of the capitalist system. Galbraith’s writings centered mostly, however, on the market power of large corporations. He posited that the power of corporations and their associated advertising, would make the markets espoused in classical economic theory ineffectual, requiring a new economic theory to be developed. Critics of Galbraith in turn objected to the fact that the focus of his writings were lay readers, as opposed to expert academics, implying that his answers to economic problems are too simplistic. Social inequality and unfair distribution of wealth, are often attributed to capitalism and a pure free market is built upon a principle of rewarding effort. However, this ignores persons born with greater natural abilities or greater opportunities. Thus, successive iterations of pure free market capitalism would lead to a market based upon feudal aristocracy.\n\nPrice controls are a government initiative to mitigate exploitative market power. Specifically in response to systems of pricing that capitalise on the dependency of one market entity upon another, such as monopolistic markets in which the supplier is a price maker and consumers assume the role of price taker. Price controls as a strategy provide relief from the price exploitation of the dominant player in a market transaction, albeit a short term abatement of this power which is a common criticism of this method.\n\nKarl Marx in The Communist Manifesto postulated that the era of feudal aristocracy and the capitalism experienced in 1847 at the time of its writing, would be replaced with communism, or as we now know it, a socialist society. Communists from a Marxian perspective are described as persons that understand the world and are enlightened to the interests of the proletariat. Marx surmised that the \"dictatorship of the proletariat\" refers to rule by the working class and would see the battle of democracy as won.\n\nIn this scenario members of a society share common ownership of the means of production and rewards from that production. The resultant society gains and allocates resources according to the quote \"From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs!\". The communist approach eliminates scarcity in all respects, and represents a society from a pure collectivism school of thought, based upon the utilitarian moral perspective.\n\nThe impact of Marxist theories continues to this day, Alan Taylor compares The Communist Manifesto to a holy script, being acted upon and quoted by supporters that do not know the source of their belief.\n\nA Communist society utilises a utilitarian based moral approach as a means to preserve the society. In this system the rights of the collective are placed above the rights of individuals. The utilitarian paradigm represents \"the greatest happiness principle\" as theorized by John Stuart Mill. This theory holds that the best course of action is that which benefits the majority, and may require the sacrifice of some to maximise happiness overall.\n\nWithin a Communist Society the sole purpose of production is in maintaining the subsistence of the collective. Removing any role for self-interest also removes this incentive to exert effort by individuals because reward is not allocated proportionate to effort or in a meritocratic manner. Introduction of a rewards system (be it economic or otherwise) breaches the basis of the communist society, because reward places value on individual achievement. An additional criticism flows from Adam Smith's discovery of the effect of market signals on resource allocation. With no consumers to express demand, optimal resource levels cannot be maintained. Instead production occurs on the basis of need only and need is not measured by willingness to pay .\n\nMeritocracy is an ideology founded in the works of Confucius, whereby the allocation of rewards, positions and responsibilities is objective and upon the merit of an individual. Merit is predominantly assessed via examinations and evaluations, however a perfect meritocracy is near impossible to achieve. The attainment of a university degree is purportedly an example of a meritocratic system, however the inability to ensure equal opportunity to access university by all refutes this point. Inequalities exist in access to prior education, socio-economic factors and as Rawls argues natural abilities and talents. Criticism of meritocracy comes from the reproduction of traditional hierarchies and inequality, when merit is not awarded in a meritocratic manner but instead on the basis of opportunity. Distribution based upon the arbitrary nature of desert faces criticism from egalitarianism, that dictates justice without equality is futile and that equality in itself is the highest form of justice.\n\nJohn Rawls conceived the notion of ‘The Original Position’ based upon the thought experiment whereby participants must agree to a hypothetical social contract under a veil of ignorance. In this approach to the question of societal design, removal of the knowledge of particular abilities, tastes and position within society creates a veil of ignorance. The application of this veil in the thought experiment determines the basic structure of society subjectively, because knowledge of the outcome and participant’s subsequent position in the society is deprived. From this naive perspective, an evaluation of resource allocation can be made from a morally arbitrary point of view.\nThe veil of ignorance favours the selection of ‘the original position’ a point in between self-sufficiency and collectivism, whereby two fundamental principles of justice would be agreed upon.\n\n\"They are the principles that free and rational persons concerned to further their own interests would accept in an initial position of equality as defining the fundamental terms of their association.\"\n\nRawls’ conclusion to the regulation of inequality, was a society based upon his proposed ‘difference principle’ - permitting inequalities that work to the advantage of the worst off. Not to be confused with trickle-down economics, this compensates for the natural abilities of individuals through a redistributive exercise. The society that results is therefore fair on the basis of opportunity regardless of natural ability.\n\nRawls arranged the fundamental principles of the Original Position in lexical priority: the liberty principle, fair equality of opportunity and lastly the difference principle. This prioritisation encounters criticism, as the importance of the first principle is awarded greater weighting and must be satisfied prior to subsequent principles. So whilst liberty is said to be the dominant principle, the difference principle that results from the acceptance of inequalities (the second principle) operates in violation of the first principle. This is exemplified by redistributive taxes as discussed by Robert Nozick in Anarchy, State and Utopia which criticises the use of this tax as a levelling mechanism, impinging upon an individual’s basic liberties, the mainstay of the original position's principles.\n\nThree objections to the difference principle are identified by Michael Sandel as follows:\n1. A decreased incentive to work when top tier earners are taxed proportionately greater than lower tier earners. Reaching an equilibrium point demonstrates the difference principle. At equilibrium, top tier earners are provided with enough incentive so to remain in their positions of employment and thus continue to produce benefits also received by bottom tier earners.\n2. A Meritocratic allocation of reward.\n3. Self-Ownership of one’s natural talents and abilities, violated by redistributive practises that treat these natural assets as public or communal.\n\nRedistribution of wealth is attained through many forms such as taxation, monetary policies, welfare and nationalisation of private enterprise. Taxation as a means to redistribute wealth seeks to establish a level playing field for its constituents. Sweden has one of the highest income tax rates in the world, which translates to a high level of social welfare in the areas of education, healthcare and pensions. This is a mostly utalitarian form of society and results in a low gini coefficient, a measure of equality of income 0.25. The United States of America has a relatively high gini coefficient opposed to Sweden of 0.41. As such the USA faces a problematic history in public sector services. Accessibility issues exist in healthcare and education in particular. Private sector ownership of these services advantage those that can afford it and for those that cannot, inequality is exacerbated further.\n\nThe inequality of wealth distribution in the United States was the precursor to the Occupy Wall Street Movement that spread to up to 80 countries. The protest’s slogan \"We are the 99%\" aimed to draw attention to the financial power held by a minority. This power is perpetuated by the supposedly corrupt nature of large corporations said to hold overwhelming financial and political control.\n\nA poverty trap, acts as a self-reinforcing mechanism which causes poverty to persist. This vicious cycle of poverty remains a common experience of billions and the emergence of these traps can arise from both market failure and institution failure. On the opposite side to poverty traps are welfare traps, or an over-reliance upon welfare, that creates a perverse incentive to work.\n\nMarket failures are the inefficient allocation of goods and services, that can occur in a free market economy. These failures often arise in the pursuit of goals of self-interest that lead to inefficient market outcomes such as Veblen’s theory of conspicuous consumption.\n"}
{"id": "3140969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3140969", "title": "Kaymakam", "text": "Kaymakam\n\nQaim Maqam, Qaimaqam or Kaymakam (also spelled kaimakam and caimacam; , \"sub-governor\") is the title used for the governor of a provincial district in the Republic of Turkey, Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and in Lebanon; additionally, it was a title used for roughly the same official position in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nThe modern Turkish term \"kaymakam\" originally comes from two originally Arabic words as used in Ottoman Turkish: \"kâim\" (قائم), meaning \"standing\"; and \"makâm\" (مقام), originally used for \"place\" but, in this context, used with the sense of \"office\", \"position\", or \"state\". Thus, in Ottoman times, a \"kâim-makâm\" was a state officer who was considered a representative of, or \"standing in place\" of the sultan at a local level (similar to the English Lord Lieutenant); today, a \"kaymakam\" is a representative of the government or state at a local level.\n\nAccording to some, the first \"kaymakam\" in history was ‘Alī ibn Abī Ṭālib, who is supposed to have been appointed by the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, as the first rightful caliph. Thus, ‘Alī was considered to be serving \"in the place of\" Muhammad.\n\nThe term Qaim Maqam has a specific meaning in Moldavian and Wallachian history, where it refers to a temporary replacement for a Hospodar (\"prince\"), in and after Phanariote rule, as well as the delegates of the Oltenian Ban in Craiova after the main office was moved to Bucharest during the same period (1761). \n\nIn this context, the word may be spelled \"caimacam\", while the Romanian term for the office is \"căimăcămie\".\n\nIn Arabia, four \"hakims\" (native rulers) of the later emirate of Qatar held the additional Ottoman title of kaymakam in their administrative capacity since 1872 of district administrator since the establishment of Ottoman sovereignty (as kaza [district] of Sandjak al-Hasa, within the vilayet of Baghdad, from 1875 Basra vilayet) till this was exchanged on 3 November 1916 with a British protectorate (as Sheikdom of Qatar, colonially under the chief political resident of the Persian Gulf, at Bahrein). \n\nSimilarly, three ruling native hakims of the later emirate of Kuwait, were also Kaymakam of a kazas in the same province, 1871 till a British protectorate, also on 3 November 1914.\n\nIn the Ottoman Empire, the title of \"kaymakam\" (known either as \"sadâret kaymakamı\" or as \"kaymakam pasha\") was originally used for the official deputizing for the Grand Vizier during the latter's illness, absence from the capital on campaign, or in the interval between the dismissal of one Grand Vizier and the arrival to the capital of a new appointee. The practice began in the 16th century, or perhaps even earlier, and continued until the end of the Empire. The \"kaymakam\" enjoyed the full plenitude of powers of the Grand Vizier, but was not allowed to intervene in the conduct of the military campaigns. Selected from the ranks of the viziers, the \"kaymakam\" played an important role in the politics of the capital and often became involved in intrigues against the absent Grand Vizier, trying to replace him. In the last decades of the Empire, the post of \"kaymakam\" was filled by the members of the imperial cabinet, or by the \"Shaykh al-Islam\".\n\nThe modernization and Westernization reforms instituted in the 19th century added new meanings to the term. With the establishment of the regular \"Asakir-i Mansure-i Muhammediye\" troops in 1826, \"kaymakam\" became a rank in the Ottoman army, equivalent to a lieutenant colonel. It remained in use throughout the final century of the Empire, and continued in use in the Turkish Republic until the 1930s, when it was replaced by the title of \"yarbay\". The overhaul of the administrative system in the Tanzimat reforms soon after saw the use of \"kaymakam\" for the governor of a \"sanjak\" (second-level province), while after the establishment of the \"vilayet\" system in 1864, a \"kaymakam\" became the governor of a \"kaza\" (third-level province). The system was retained by modern Turkey, where a sub-province (\"ilçe\" after the 1920s) is still headed by a \"kaymakam\".\nIn Ottoman Egypt, the title of \"kaymakam\" was used in its generic sense of \"lieutenant\" for deputies or agents, but most notably, until the ascendancy of Muhammad Ali of Egypt, for the interim governors of the country, who served between the removal of one governor and the installation of the next one. In the tumultuous politics of the ruling Mamluk elite, the appointment of a \"kaymakam\" \"became, particularly in the 18th century, a device by which a Mamluk faction would legitimize its ascendancy\" before installing one of its own members as governor. After Muhammad Ali consolidated his control of the country and his Westernizing reforms, the title, as in the rest of the Ottoman Empire, acquired a new technical meaning: in the army, it became a rank equivalent to lieutenant-colonel, while in the administration it signified the official in charge of a \"nahiye\", with particular responsibility for the maintenance of the irrigation system.\n\nThe rank is attested in use with a British officer commanding the Equatorial Battalion in East Africa, 1918: Kaimakam R F White DSO who was an officer of the Essex Regiment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "749860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=749860", "title": "Klaipėda Region", "text": "Klaipėda Region\n\nThe Klaipėda Region () or Memel Territory ( or \"Memelgebiet\") was defined by the Treaty of Versailles in 1920 and refers to the most northern part of the German province of East Prussia, when as Memelland it was put under the administration of the Council of Ambassadors. The Memel Territory, together with the other parts severed from Germany, the Saar and Danzig, was to remain under the control of the League of Nations until a future day when the people of these regions would be allowed to vote on whether the land would return to Germany or not.\n\nKonrad I of Masovia requested assistance against the Prussians and other Baltic tribes, including the Skalvians who lived along the Neman River. In March 1226, Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II issued the Golden Bull of Rimini, which provided that the Teutonic Knights would possess lands taken beyond the Masovian border in exchange for securing Masovia. After Prussian opposition in 1242 through 1274 failed, the Order conquered many remaining western Balts in Lithuania Minor, including the Skalvians, Nadruvians, and Yotvingians. In 1252, the Order constructed Memel Castle, where the Dangė river flows into the Neman, at the north end of the Curonian Spit. In 1422, after centuries of conflict, the Order and the Polish–Lithuanian union signed the Treaty of Melno which created a border between Prussia and Lithuania. Although Grand Duke Vytautas wanted the border to be coextensive with the Neman River, the treaty border started north of Memelberg and ran southeasterly to the Nemen. This border remained until 1918. After the Treaty of Melno was signed, many Lithuanians returned to northern Prussia, which became known as Lithuania Minor.\n\nFollowing World War I, the Klaipėda Region was created as a roughly triangular wedge, with the northern border being the Treaty of Melno border, the southern border being the Neman River, and on the west abutting the Baltic Sea. In 1923, fearing that the western powers would create a free state, Lithuanians took control of the region and, as part of larger regional negotiations, the region was incorporated into Lithuania. In 1939, Lithuania acquiesced to Nazi demands and transferred the Klaipėda Region to Germany. At the end of World War II, the Soviet Union incorporated the region into the Lithuanian SSR. The area of the Klaipėda Region is now part of the Republic of Lithuania, contained within Klaipėda and Tauragė counties. The border established by the Treaty of Versailles remains in effect as the current international boundary between Lithuania and the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia.\n\nThe eastern boundaries of Prussia (from 1871, part of the German Empire), having remained unchanged since the Treaty of Melno in 1422, became a matter of discussion following World War I, as the newly independent states of Poland and Lithuania emerged. The separatist Act of Tilsit was signed by few pro-Lithuanian oriented Prussian Lithuanians in 1918, demanding the unification of Prussian Lithuania with Lithuania proper. It is traditionally viewed by Lithuanians as expressing the desire of Lithuania Minor to unite with Lithuania – but the majority of Prussian Lithuanians did not want to join with Lithuania and the Prussian Lithuanians did not make up a majority of the population.\n\nThe division of Prussia was also promoted by Poland's Roman Dmowski in Versailles who acted by orders of Józef Piłsudski: the purpose was to give the lower part of Neman River and its delta, which was located in Germany and called the Memel River, to Lithuania as this would provide her access to the Baltic Sea, while Lithuania itself should be part of Poland. These ideas were supported by the French prime minister Georges Clemenceau.\n\nIn 1920, according to the Treaty of Versailles, the German area north of the Memel river was given the status of \"Territoire de Memel\" under the administration of the Council of Ambassadors, and French troops were sent for protection. During the period of French administration, the idea of an independent State of Memelland grew in popularity among local inhabitants. The organisation \"Deutsch-Litauischer Heimatbund\" (German-Lithuanian homeland federation) promoted the idea of a \"Freistaat Memelland\", which later should return to Germany. It had 30,000 members, both ethnic Germans and Lithuanians, about 21% of the total population.\n\nOn 9 January 1923, three years after the Versailles Treaty had become effective, Lithuania occupied the territory during the Klaipėda Revolt, mainly by militia that had entered the region from Lithuania. France at the same time had started the Occupation of the Ruhr in Germany, and the French administration in Memel did not take any significant counteractive measures against the rebels. On 19 January, the territory was annexed by Lithuania, and the \"fait accompli\" was eventually confirmed by the Council of Ambassadors in 1924.\n\nThe area was subsequently annexed by Lithuania. In the Klaipėda Convention, signed by the Council of Ambassadors and Lithuania, the area was granted a separate parliament, two official languages, the capacity to raise its own taxes, charge custom duties, and manage its cultural and religious affairs, and was allowed a separate judicial system, separate citizenship, internal control of agriculture and forestry, as well as a separate social security system. The Council of Ambassadors accepted the resulting arrangement and confirmed the autonomy of the region within the Republic of Lithuania. On 8 May 1924 a further Convention on the Klaipėda region confirmed the annexation, and a resulting autonomy agreement was signed in Paris. The Memel Territory was recognized as an integral part of the Republic of Lithuania also by Germany on 29 January 1928, when the two countries signed the Lithuanian-German Border Treaty.\n\nImportantly, the annexation gave Lithuania control of a year-round ice-free Baltic port. Lithuania made full use of Klaipėda port, modernizing and adapting it, largely for its agricultural exports. The port reconstruction was certainly one of the larger long-term investment projects enacted by the government of Lithuania in the interwar period.\n\nThe inhabitants of the area were not given a choice on the ballot whether they wanted to be part of the Lithuanian state or part of Germany. Since the pro-German political parties had an overall majority of more than 80% in all elections to the local parliament (see election statistics below) in the interwar period, there can be little doubt that such a referendum would have been in favour of Germany. In fact, the area had been united since the monastic state of the 13th century, and even many Lithuanian-speakers, regarding themselves as East Prussians, declared themselves as \"Memellanders/Klaipėdiškiai\" in the official census (see below for demographic information) and did not want to belong to a Lithuanian national state. According to the Lithuanian point of view, Memellanders were viewed as Germanised Lithuanians who should be re-Lithuanised.\n\nThere was also a strong denominational difference since about 95% of the inhabitants of Lithuania Minor were Lutherans while more than 90% of Greater Lithuanians were Catholics. Following the \"Agreement concerning the Evangelical Church of the Klaipėda Region\" () of July 23, 1925, concluded between the Directorate of the Klaipėda Region and the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union, a church of united administration of Lutheran and Reformed congregations, the mostly Lutheran congregations (and a single Reformed one in Klaipėda) in the Klaipėda Region were disentangled from the old-Prussian \"Ecclesiastical Province of East Prussia\" and formed the Regional Synodal Federation of the Memel Territory (Landessynodalverband Memelgebiet) since, being ranked an old-Prussian ecclesiastical province of its own. An own consistory in Klaipėda was established in 1927, led by a general superintendent (at first F. Gregor, elected in 1927, succeeded by O. Obereiniger, elected by the regional synod in 1933). The Catholic parishes in the Klaipėda Region used to belong to the Bishopric of Ermland until 1926 and were then disentangled, forming the new Territorial Prelature of Klaipėda under Prelate Justinas Staugaitis.\n\nThe government of Lithuania faced considerable opposition from the region's autonomous institutions, among others the Parliament of the Klaipėda Region. As years passed, claims were becoming more and more vocal about a re-integration into a resurgent Germany. It was only during the latter period that Lithuania then instituted a policy of \"Lithuanization\". This was met by even more opposition, as religious and regional differences slowly became insurmountable.\n\nAfter the December 1926 coup d’état, Antanas Smetona came to power. As the status of the Memel Territory was regulated by international treaties, the Memel Territory became an oasis of democracy in Lithuania. Lithuanian intelligentsia often held marriages in Memel/Klaipėda, since Memel Territory was the only place in Lithuania where civil marriage was in use, in the rest of Lithuania only church marriages were legitimized. Thus, Lithuanian opposition to Smetona's regime was also based in Memel Territory.\n\nAt the start of the 1930s, certain leaders and members of pro-Nazi organizations in the region were put on trial by Lithuania \"for crimes of terrorism\". The 1934–5 proceedings of Neumann and Sass in Kaunas can be presented as the first anti-Nazi trial in Europe. Three members of the organizations were sentenced to death, and their leaders imprisoned. Following political and economic pressure from Germany, most were later released.\n\nThe local parliament had 29 seats, one for every 5,000 inhabitants. Men and women from age 23 had the right to vote.\n\nSee also the results of the January 1919 elections to the Nationalversammlung.\n\nA Lithuanian census carried out in the region in 1925 found its total population was 141,000. Declared language was used to classify the inhabitants, and on this basis 43.5 percent were German, 27.6 percent were Lithuanian, and 25.2 percent were \"Klaipėdan\" (\"Memelländisch\"). Other sources give the interwar ethnic composition as 41.9 percent German, 27.1 percent Memelländisch, and 26.6 percent Lithuanian.\n\nOverall, Prussian Lithuanians were more rural than Germans; the part of Lithuanian speakers in the city of Klaipėda itself increased over time due to urbanization and migration from villages into cities and later also from remaining Lithuania (in the city of Klaipėda, Lithuanian-speaking people made up 21.5% in 1912, 32.6% in 1925 and 38.7% in 1932*). Foreign citizens might include some Germans, who opted for German citizenship instead of Lithuanian (although at the time the German government pressured local Germans to take Lithuanian citizenship, so that German presence would remain). There were more Lithuanian speakers in the north of region (Klaipėdos apskritis and Šilutės apskritis) than in south (Pagėgių apskritis). Other locals included people of other nationalities who had citizenship of Lithuania, such as Jews.\n\nIn the 1930s, a novel by local author Ieva Simonaitytė based on family history illustrated the centuries-old German–Lithuanian relations in the region.\n\nThe authoritarian regime of A. Smetona enforced a policy of discrimination and Lithuanisation: it sent administrators from Lithuania, and German teachers, officials and priests were fired from jobs. Local inhabitants—both Germans and Prussian Lithuanians—were not accepted for state service in Memel Territory. People were sent from Kaunas instead.\n\nUntil 1938, no Governor was appointed from local Prussian Lithuanians. This policy led Prussian Lithuanian intelligentsia and some local Germans to organise a society in 1934 to oppose Lithuanian rule. This group was soon dismantled.\n\nElection results in Memel Territory were irritating for the authoritarian Smetona regime, and it attempted to \"colonise\" Memel Territory with Lithuanians. The Lithuanian settlements Jakai and Smeltė were built. The number of newcomers increased: in 1926 the number was 5,000, in 1939—30,000.\n\nLithuania introduced a hard-line Lithuanisation campaign that led to even deeper antagonism between local Prussian Lithuanians, Memellanders, Germans and newcomers.\n\nBy late 1938, Lithuania had lost control of the situation in the Territory. In the early hours of 23 March 1939, after an oral ultimatum had caused a Lithuanian delegation to travel to Berlin, the Lithuanian Minister of Foreign Affairs Juozas Urbšys and his German counterpart Joachim von Ribbentrop signed the \"Treaty of the Cession of the Memel Territory to Germany\" in exchange for a Lithuanian Free Zone for 99 years in the port of Memel, using the facilities erected in previous years.\n\nHitler had anticipated this aboard a Kriegsmarine naval ship and at dawn sailed into Memel to celebrate the return \"heim ins Reich\" of the Memelland. This proved to be the last of a series of bloodless annexations of territories separated from the German or Austrian Empire by the Treaty of Versailles, which had been perceived by many Germans as a humiliation. German forces seized the territory even before the official Lithuanian ratification. The United Kingdom and France, as after the revolt of 1923, took no action. It was under these conditions that the Seimas was forced to approve the treaty, hoping that Germany would not press any other territorial demands upon Lithuania.\n\nStill, the reunion with Germany was welcomed by the majority of the population, both by Germans and by Memellanders.\n\nAccording to the treaty, the citizens of the Memel Territory were allowed to choose their citizenship: either German or Lithuanian. Three hundred and three people or, counting family members, 585, asked for Lithuanian citizenship but only 20 requests were granted. Another term stated that persons who had settled in the Memel Territory during the occupation period from 1923 to 1939 should emigrate. About 8,900 Lithuanians did so. At the same time, Germany expelled about 1,300 local Memel and Lithuanian Jews and about 40 Prussian Lithuanians.\n\nHigh Commissioners\n\nPlenipotentiaries\n\nGovernors\n\nTransitional Commissioner for the Integration of Memelland\n\nAfter Nazi Germany took over the area in 1939, many Lithuanians and their organizations began leaving Memel and the surrounding area. Memel was quickly turned into a fortified naval base by the Germans. After the failure of the German invasion of the USSR the fate of East Prussia and Memel was sealed. By October 1944 the inhabitants of the area, without ethnic distinction, had to make a decision whether to stay or leave. Nearly all of the population were evacuated from the approaching Red Army, but the city itself was defended by the German army during the Battle of Memel until January 28, 1945. After its capture only six persons were found in the city.\n\nAt the end of the war, the majority of the inhabitants had fled to the West to settle in Germany. Still in 1945–46 there were around 35,000 local inhabitants, both Prussian Lithuanians and Germans. The government of the Lithuanian SSR sent agitators into the displaced persons camps to make promises to former inhabitants that they could return and their property would be restored, yet the promises were never fulfilled. In the period of 1945–50 about 8,000 persons were repatriated. Bilingual Lithuanian-German returners were viewed as Germans.\n\nThe few remaining ethnic Germans were then forcibly expelled, with most opting to flee to what would become West Germany. Autochthonous people who remained in the former Memel territory were dismissed from their jobs. Families of notable local Lithuanians, who had opposed German parties before the war, were deported to Siberia. In 1951 the Lithuanian SSR expelled 3,500 people from the former Memel Territory to East Germany. In 1958, when emigration was allowed, the majority of the surviving population, both Germans and Prussian Lithuanians, emigrated to West Germany; this event was called a repatriation of Germans by the Lithuanian SSR. Today these formerly Lutheran territories are mostly inhabited by Lithuanians who are Catholic and by Orthodox Russians. However, the minority Prussian Lithuanian Protestants historically were concentrated in these regions, and some remain to this day. Only a few thousand autochthons are left. Their continued emigration is facilitated by the fact they are considered German citizens by the Federal Republic of Germany. No property restoration was performed by the Republic of Lithuania for owners prior to 1945.\n\nAlthough maintaining that the Memel Territory in 1939 was re-annexed by Germany and acknowledging that Lithuania itself was occupied in 1940 by the Soviets, Lithuania, after regaining independence on 11 March 1990, did not restore autonomy to the Memel Territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56070240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56070240", "title": "Kurz government", "text": "Kurz government\n\nThe Kurz government () is the current government of Austria, it took office on 18 December 2017. It succeeded the Kern government, following the 2017 election. Sebastian Kurz, leader of the centre-right ÖVP, reached an agreement on a coalition with the right-wing FPÖ, making him chancellor of Austria. The cabinet was appointed by President Alexander Van der Bellen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52545891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52545891", "title": "Lal Sena", "text": "Lal Sena\n\nLal Sena (Hindi: लाल सेना) was an organised armed militia across the terrains of central Bihar, north-west of today's Jharkhand, and a few districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh. It was formed mainly by lower caste (middle and lower class) peasantry and landless labourers. It existed during 1974–1976.\n\nIn 1960s, when the Naxalite movement started under the leadership of Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist), the poor peasantry and agricultural labourers who belonged mainly to the lower castes started taking side with the communists in central Bihar across the districts of Bhojpur, Gaya, Nalanda, Patna and Aurangabad. Several violent armed clashes occurred between the landlords and poor/landless peasantry. In 1970s, CPI (ML) faced hard offence from central and state governments throughout India and splintered into several ML factions. In 1974, one of the ML factions was able to hold on to the grounds and reorganised itself into the CPI(ML) Liberation political party. Meanwhile, the landlords/landowners most of whom economically were from upper class peasantry (mainly upper caste ) organised themselves based on caste lines into several landlord gentries. In retaliation Lal Sena guerrilla armed squads, were organised by then underground CPI (ML) Liberation.\n\nSince the late 2000s, Lal Sena's squad activity has been curtailed. The CPI (ML) Liberation party's movements took a militant but democratic approach through legalised workers, peasants, students, youth and women organisations, as noted by Dr. Sanjay K. Jha:\n"}
{"id": "3748739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3748739", "title": "List of Hispanic and Latino Republicans", "text": "List of Hispanic and Latino Republicans\n\nThe following is an alphabetically ordered list of notable Latino members of the United States Republican Party, past and present.<br>\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24616039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24616039", "title": "List of cabinets of Greece", "text": "List of cabinets of Greece\n\nThis is a list of the government cabinets of Greece.\n\n"}
{"id": "3420884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3420884", "title": "List of multilateral free-trade agreements", "text": "List of multilateral free-trade agreements\n\nThis is a list of multilateral free-trade agreements, between several countries all treated equally. For agreements between two countries, between a bloc and a country, or between two blocs, see list of bilateral free-trade agreements; these are not listed below.\n\nEvery customs union, common market, economic union, customs and monetary union and economic and monetary union is also a free-trade area; these are listed on these separate articles and are not included below.\n\nFor a general explanation, see free-trade area.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor an interactive list of bilateral and multilateral free trade instruments see the TREND-Analytics website.\n\n"}
{"id": "52786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52786", "title": "Local government", "text": "Local government\n\nA local government is a form of public administration which, in a majority of contexts, exists as the lowest tier of administration within a given state. The term is used to contrast with offices at state level, which are referred to as the central government, national government, or (where appropriate) federal government and also to supranational government which deals with governing institutions between states. Local governments generally act within powers delegated to them by legislation or directives of the higher level of government. In federal states, local government generally comprises the third (or sometimes fourth) tier of government, whereas in unitary states, local government usually occupies the second or third tier of government, often with greater powers than higher-level administrative divisions.\n\nThe question of municipal autonomy is a key question of public administration and governance. The institutions of local government vary greatly between countries, and even where similar arrangements exist, the terminology often varies. Common names for local government entities include state, province, region, department, county, prefecture, district, city, township, town, borough, parish, municipality, shire, village, and local service district.\n\nLocal government traditionally had limited power in Egypt's highly centralized state. Under the central government were twenty-six governorates (sing., muhafazah; pl., muhafazat). These were subdivided into districts (sing., markaz; pl., marakaz) and villages (sing., qaryah; pl., qura) or towns. At each level, there was a governing structure that combined representative councils and government-appointed executive organs headed by governors, district officers, and mayors, respectively. Governors were appointed by the president, and they, in turn, appointed subordinate executive officers. The coercive backbone of the state apparatus ran downward from the Ministry of Interior through the governors' executive organs to the district police station and the village headman (sing., ; pl., umadah).\n\nBefore the revolution, state penetration of the rural areas was limited by the power of local notables, but under Nasser, land reform reduced their socioeconomic dominance, and the incorporation of peasants into cooperatives transferred mass dependence from landlords to government. The extension of officials into the countryside permitted the regime to bring development and services to the village. The local branches of the ruling party, the Arab Socialist Union (ASU), fostered a certain peasant political activism and coopted the local notables—in particular the village headmen—and checked their independence from the regime. \n\nState penetration did not retreat under Sadat and Mubarak. The earlier effort to mobilize peasants and deliver services disappeared as the local party and cooperative withered, but administrative controls over the peasants remained intact. The local power of the old families and the headmen revived but more at the expense of peasants than of the state. The district police station balanced the notables, and the system of local government (the mayor and council) integrated them into the regime. \n\nSadat took several measures to decentralize power to the provinces and towns. Governors acquired more authority under Law Number 43 of 1979, which reduced the administrative and budgetary controls of the central government over the provinces. The elected councils acquired, at least formally, the right to approve or disapprove the local budget. In an effort to reduce local demands on the central treasury, local government was given wider powers to raise local taxes. But local representative councils became vehicles of pressure for government spending, and the soaring deficits of local government bodies had to be covered by the central government. Local government was encouraged to enter into joint ventures with private investors, and these ventures stimulated an alliance between government officials and the local rich that paralleled the infitah alliance at the national level. Under Mubarak decentralization and local autonomy became more of a reality, and local policies often reflected special local conditions. Thus, officials in Upper Egypt often bowed to the powerful Islamic movement there, while those in the port cities struck alliances with importers.\n\nIn recent years, Mali has undertaken an ambitious decentralization program, which involves the capital district of Bamako, seven regions subdivided into 46 cercles, and 682 rural community districts (communes). The state retains an advisory role in administrative and fiscal matters, and it provides technical support, coordination, and legal recourse to these levels. Opportunities for direct political participation, and increased local responsibility for development have been improved.\n\nIn August–September 1998, elections were held for urban council members, who subsequently elected their mayors. In May/June 1999, citizens of the communes elected their communal council members for the first time. Female voter turnout was about 70% of the total, and observers considered the process open and transparent. With mayors, councils, and boards in place at the local level, newly elected officials, civil society organizations, decentralized technical services, private sector interests, other communes, and donor groups began partnering to further development.\n\nEventually, the cercles will be reinstituted (formerly grouping arrondissements) with a legal and financial basis of their own. Their councils will be chosen by and from members of the communal councils. The regions, at the highest decentralized level, will have a similar legal and financial autonomy, and will comprise a number of cercles within their geographical boundaries. Mali needs to build capacity at these levels, especially to mobilize and manage financial resources.\n\nSouth Africa has a two tiered local government system comprising local municipalities which fall into district municipalities, and metropolitan municipalities which span both tiers of local government.\n\nAfghanistan was traditionally divided into provinces governed by centrally appointed governors with considerable autonomy in local affairs. There are currently 34 provinces. During the Soviet occupation and the development of country-wide resistance, local areas came increasingly under the control of mujaheddin groups that were largely independent of any higher authority; local commanders, in some instances, asserted a measure of independence also from the mujaheddin leadership in Pakistan, establishing their own systems of local government, collecting revenues, running educational and other facilities, and even engaging in local negotiations. Mujaheddin groups retained links with the Peshawar parties to ensure access to weapons that were doled out to the parties by the government of Pakistan for distribution to fighters inside Afghanistan.\n\nThe Taliban set up a shura (assembly), made up of senior Taliban members and important tribal from the area. Each shura made laws and collected taxes locally. The Taliban set up a provisional government for the whole of Afghanistan, but it did not exercise central control over the local shuras.\n\nThe process of setting up the transitional government in June 2002 by the Loya Jirga took many steps involving local government. First, at the district and municipal level, traditional shura councils met to pick electors—persons who cast ballots for Loya Jirga delegates. Each district or municipality had to choose a predetermined number of electors, based on the size of its population. The electors then traveled to regional centers and cast ballots, to choose from amongst themselves a smaller number of loya jirga delegates— according to allotted numbers assigned to each district. The delegates then took part in the Loya Jirga.\n\nThe warlords who rule various regions of the country exert local control. The transitional government is attempting to integrate local governing authorities with the central government, but it lacks the loyalty from the warlords necessary to its governing authority. More traditional elements of political authority—such as Sufi networks, royal lineage, clan strength, age-based wisdom, and the like—still exist and play a role in Afghan society. Karzai is relying on these traditional sources of authority in his challenge to the warlords and older Islamist leaders. The deep ethnic, linguistic, sectarian, tribal, racial, and regional cleavages present in the country create what is called \"Qawm\" identity, emphasizing the local over higher-order formations. Qawm refers to the group to which the individual considers himself to belong, whether a subtribe, village, valley, or neighborhood. Local governing authority relies upon these forms of identity and loyalty.\n\nBangladesh is divided into eight administrative divisions, each named after their respective divisional headquarters: Barisal, Chittagong, Dhaka, Khulna, Rajshahi, Sylhet, Rangpur and Mymensingh Division.\n\nDivisions are subdivided into districts (\"zila\"). There are 64 districts in Bangladesh, each further subdivided into \"upazila\" (subdistricts) or \"thana\". The area within each police station, except for those in metropolitan areas, is divided into several \"unions\", with each union consisting of multiple villages. In the metropolitan areas, police stations are divided into wards, which are further divided into \"mahallas\". There are no directly elected officials at the divisional or district levels, although elected chairs of subdistricts also sit on district councils. Direct elections are held for each union (or ward), electing a chairperson and a number of members. In 1997, a parliamentary act was passed to reserve three seats (out of 12) in every union for female candidates.\n\nDhaka is the capital and largest city of Bangladesh. The cities with a city corporation, having mayoral elections, include Dhaka South, Dhaka North, Chittagong, Khulna, Sylhet, Rajshahi, Barisal, Rangpur, Comilla and Gazipur. Other major cities, these and other municipalities electing a mayor and councilors for each ward, include Mymensingh, Gopalganj, Jessore, Bogra, Dinajpur, Saidapur, Narayanganj, Naogaon and Rangamati. Both the municipal heads are elected for a span of five years.\n\nThe Israeli Ministry of Interior recognizes four types of local government in Israel: \n\nSince the Meiji restoration, Japan has had a local government system based on prefectures. The national government oversees much of the country. Municipal governments were historical villages. Now mergers are common for cost effective administration. There are 47 prefectures. They have two main responsibilities. One is mediation between national and municipal governments. The other is area wide administration.\n\nLocal government is the lowest level in the system of government in Malaysia—after federal and state. It has the power to collect taxes (in the form of assessment tax), to create laws and rules (in the form of by-laws) and to grant licenses and permits for any trade in its area of jurisdiction, in addition to providing basic amenities, collecting and managing waste and garbage as well as planning and developing the area under its jurisdiction.\n\nGaunpalika (Rural Council) and Nagarpalika (Municipal council) are the local level divisions in Nepal. Which is ruled by third level of government after Federal and Provincial government.\n\nLocal government is the third tier of government in Pakistan, after Federal Government and Provincial Government.There are three types of administrative unit of local government in Pakistan:\n\n\nThere are over five thousand local governments in Pakistan. Since 2001, these have been led by democratically elected local councils, each headed by a Nazim (the word means \"supervisor\" in Urdu, but is sometimes translated as Mayor). Some districts, incorporating large metropolitan areas, are called City Districts. A City District may contain subdivisions called Towns and Union Councils. Council elections are held every four years. District Governments also include a District Coordination Officer (DCO), who is a civil servant in-charge of all devolved departments. Currently, the Powers of Nazim are also held by the DCO.\n\nLocal government in the Palestinian National Authority-controlled areas are divided into three main groups: Municipal councils, village council and local development committees.\n\nThe Local Government Code of 1991 provides for the three levels of Local Government Units or LGUs in the Philippines: (1) the province (2) city and municipality, and (3) the barangay. The country remains a unitary state and the National Government continues to have strong influence over local government units.\n\nA province is led by a governor along with the \"Sangguniang Panlalawigan\" (Provincial Council) composed of board members. A mayor leads a city or municipality while the \"Sangguniang Panlungsod\" (City Council) and the \"Sangguniang Bayan\" (Municipal Council) constitute the legislative branches of a city and municipality, respectively. A barangay is headed by the Barangay Captain and the Barangay Council. Barangays can be further divided into puroks and sitios but their leadership is unelected.\n\nThe 1987 Philippine Constitution also provides for the existence of autonomous regions. The Autonomous Region for Muslim Mindanao (ARMM) is the only autonomous region in the Philippines. There was an attempt to institute an autonomous region in the Cordillera, but that failed and instead the Cordillera Administrative Region (CAR) was established.\n\nLocal governments have limited taxing authority. Most of their funds come from the national government via the Internal Revenue Allotment\n\nThere are three levels of local government in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: the city council, the municipal council and the municipality.\n\nThe city council is the highest level of local government. The municipal councils began in 2005 and is the second level of local government. The municipality is the third level of local government. There are 178 municipalities across the kingdom. The first began in Jeddah during the Othmanic period. Each municipality is run by its city's mayor. As a collective the kingdom's municipalities make up the Ministry of Municipality and Rural Affairs (MoMRA).\n\nThe Republic of China government in Taiwan consists of special municipality governments, provincial city governments and county governments for their local governments. They also have councils in each of those three local government levels.\n\nTurkey has two levels of local government; provinces (Turkish: iller ) and districts (Turkish: ilçeler ).\n\nThe territory of Turkey is subdivided into 81 provinces for administrative purposes. The provinces are organized into 7 regions for census purposes; however, they do not represent an administrative structure. Each province is divided into districts, for a total of 957 districts.\n\nVietnam has 3 levels of local government:\n\nEach level has a People's Committee (executive - up to third tier), a People's Council (legislative - up to third tier) and a People's Court (judiciary - up to second tier)\n\nAlbania has 3 levels of local government :\n\nThere are overall 2980 villages/communities () in all Albania. Each district has its council which is composed of a number of municipalities. The municipalities are the first level of local governance, responsible for local needs and law enforcement.\n\nAndorra is formed by seven parishes (parròquies, singular – parròquia); Andorra la Vella, Canillo, Encamp, La Massana, Escaldes-Engordany, Ordino, Sant Julia de Loria.\n\nSome parishes have a further territorial subdivision. Ordino, La Massana and Sant Julià de Lòria are subdivided into \"quarts\" (quarters), while Canillo is subdivided into 10 \"veïnats\" (neighborhoods). Those mostly coincide with villages, which are found in all parishes. Each parish has its own elected mayor who is the nominal head of the local government known as a \"comú\" in Catalan.\n\nSince the 1880s, the number of territorial management units in Bulgaria has varied from seven to 26. Between 1987 and 1999 the administrative structure consisted of nine provinces (\"oblasti\", singular \"oblast\"). A new administrative structure was adopted in parallel with the decentralisation of the economic system. It includes 27 provinces and a metropolitan capital province (Sofia-Grad). All areas take their names from their respective capital cities. The provinces subdivide into 264 municipalities.\n\nMunicipalities are run by mayors, who are elected to four-year terms, and by directly elected municipal councils. Bulgaria is a highly centralised state, where the national Council of Ministers directly appoints regional governors and all provinces and municipalities are heavily dependent on it for funding.\n\nCroatia is divided into 20 counties and the capital city of Zagreb, the latter having the authority and legal status of a county and a city at the same time. The counties subdivide into 127 cities and 429 municipalities.\n\nThe highest tier of local government in the Czech Republic are the thirteen regions (Czech: \"kraje\", singular \"kraj\") and the capital city of Prague. Each region has its own elected Regional Assembly (\"krajské zastupitelstvo\") and \"hejtman\" (usually translated as hetman or governor). In Prague, their powers are executed by the city council and the mayor.\n\nThe regions are divided into seventy-six districts (\"okresy\", singular \"okres\") including three \"statutory cities\" (without Prague, which had special status). The districts lost most of their importance in 1999 in an administrative reform; they remain as territorial divisions and seats of various branches of state administration. A further reform in effect since January 2003 created 204 Municipalities with Extended Competence (obce s rozšířenou působností); also obce III. stupně – third-level municipalities, unofficially also called \"little districts\" (Czech: 'malé okresy') which took over most of the administration of the former district authorities. Some of these are further divided between Municipalities with Commissioned Local Authority (obce s pověřeným obecním úřadem, shortened to pověřená obec, pl. pověřené obce; \"second-level municipalities\"). In 2007 the borders of the districts were slightly adjusted and 119 municipalities are now within different districts.\n\nFor local government purposes, Denmark is divided into five regions (), with their most important area of responsibility being the public health service. They are also responsible for employment policies, and some regions are responsible for public mass transit. Regions are not entitled to levy their own taxes, and they rely entirely on central state funding (around 70%) and funding coming from the municipalities (around 30%). Regions are led by directly elected councils (\"regionsråd\"). They consist of 41 members each.\n\nThe regions are further divided into 98 municipalities (\"kommuner\"). Elections for the municipalities are held on the third Tuesday of November every four years.\n\nEstonia is divided into fifteen counties (), each led by a county governor (\"maavanem\"), who represents the national government at the regional level. Governors are appointed by the government, and so the regions do not have full self-government. The regions are further divided into 227 municipalities (\"omavalitsus\"), and each municipality is a unit of self-government with its representative and executive bodies.\n\nThe most important administrative layer of local government in Finland are the 311 municipalities, which may also call themselves towns or cities. They account for half of public spending. Spending is financed by municipal income tax, property tax, state subsidies, and other revenue.\n\nIn addition to municipalities, there are two intermediate levels of local government. Municipalities co-operate in seventy-four sub-regions and nineteen regions. These are governed by the member municipalities and have only limited powers. However, the autonomous province of Åland has a directly elected regional council, and the Sami people have a semi-autonomous Sami Domicile Area in Lapland for issues on language and culture.\n\nAccording to its Constitution of 1958, France has 3 levels of local government:\n\nHowever, in addition to the constitutional clauses of 1958, there now exist specificities:\n\nSince 1 January 2011, Greece consists of thirteen regions subdivided into a total of 325 municipalities and communities. The regions have their own elected governors and regional councils, however there are seven decentralized administrations, which group from one to three regions under a government-appointed general secretary. There is also one autonomous area, Mount Athos.\n\nFor local government, Hungary is divided into 19 counties. In addition, the capital (\"főváros\"), Budapest, is independent of any county government\n\nThe counties are further subdivided into 174 subregions (\"kistérségek\"), and Budapest is its own subregion.\n\nThere are also 23 towns with county rights (singular \"megyei jogú város\"). The local authorities of these towns have extended powers, but these towns belong to the territory of the respective county instead of being independent territorial units.\n\nThe Municipalities of Iceland are local administrative areas in Iceland that provide a number of services to their inhabitants such as kindergartens, elementary schools, waste management, social services, public housing, public transportation, services to senior citizens and handicapped people. They also govern zoning and can voluntarily take on additional functions if they have the budget for it. The autonomy of municipalities over their own matters is guaranteed by the constitution of Iceland.\n\nThe municipalities are governed by municipal councils which are directly elected every four years. The sizes of these councils vary from five members in the smallest municipalities to fifteen in the largest one. Most municipalities except for the very small ones hire an executive manager who may or may not be a member of the municipal council. These managers are usually referred to as mayors (\"bæjarstjóri / borgarstjóri\") in the mostly urban municipalities but \"commune manager\" (\"sveitarstjóri\") in the rural or mixed municipalities.\n\nIreland is mainly based on a structure of thirty-one local authorities, termed County, City or City and County Councils. By far, the main source of funding is national government. Other sources include rates on commercial and industrial property, council housing rents, service charges and borrowing. Local policy decisions are sometimes heavily influenced by the TDs who represent the local constituency in Dáil Éireann (the main chamber of parliament in Ireland), and may be dictated by national politics rather than local needs.\n\nLocal government on the Isle of Man is based on the concept of ancient parishes. There are three types of local authorities: a borough corporation, town commissions, and parish commissions.\n\nThe Italian Constitution defines three levels of local government:\n\nMajor cities also have an extra tier of local government named \"Circoscrizione di Decentramento Comunale\" or, in some cities (e.g. Rome) \"Municipio\".\n\nLatvia is a unitary state, currently divided into 110 municipalities () and 9 republican cities () with their own council.\n\nLiechtenstein is divided into eleven municipalities (\"Gemeinden\" singular \"Gemeinde\"), most consisting of only a single town.\n\nLithuania has a three-tier division of local government: the country is divided into 10 counties (Lithuanian: singular – \"apskritis\", plural – \"apskritys\") that are further subdivided into 60 municipalities (Lithuanian: singular – \"savivaldybė\", plural – \"savivaldybės\") which consist of over 500 elderships (Lithuanian: singular – \"seniūnija\", plural – \"seniūnijos\").\n\nThe counties are ruled by county governors (Lithuanian: \"apskrities viršininkas\") appointed by the central government, and effectively oversee the two lower tiers of local government.\n\nMunicipalities are the most important administrative unit of local government. Each municipality has its own government and council, with elections taking place every four years. The council elects the mayor and appoints elders to govern the elderships.\n\nElderships, numbering over 500, are the smallest units of local government. They provide public services such as registering births and deaths and identifying individuals or families in need of welfare.\n\nMalta is a unitary city state divided into 68 municipalities (local councils), according to the constitution of the Malta.\n\nThe Netherlands has three tiers of government. There are two levels of local government in the Netherlands, the provinces and the municipalities. The water boards are also part of the local government.\n\nThe Netherlands is divided into twelve provinces (\"provincie\", pl. \"provincies\"). They form the tier of administration between the central government and the municipalities. Each province is governed by a provincial council, the States-Provincial (\"Provinciale Staten\", abbr. to \"PS\"). Its members are elected every four years. The day-to-day management of the province is in the hands of the provincial executive, the States Deputed (\"Gedeputeerde Staten\", abbr. to \"GS\"). Members of the executive are chosen by the provincial council from among its own members and like the members of the provincial council serve for a period of four years. Members elected to the executive have to give up their membership of the provincial council. The size of the executive varies from one province to another. In Flevoland, the smallest of the Dutch provinces, it has four members, while most other provinces have six or seven. Meetings of the provincial executive are chaired by the King's Commissioner (\"Commissaris van de Koning(in)\", abbr. to \"CvdK\"). The King's Commissioner is not elected by the residents of the province, but appointed by the Crown (the King and government ministers). The appointment is for six years and may be extended by a second term. The King's Commissioner can be dismissed only by the Crown. King's Commissioners play an important part in the appointment of municipal mayors. When a vacancy arises, the King's Commissioner first asks the municipal council for its views as to a successor, then writes to the Minister of the Interior recommending a candidate.\n\nMunicipalities (\"gemeente\", pl. \"gemeenten\") form the lowest tier of government in the Netherlands, after the central government and the provinces. There are 415 of them (1 January 2012). The municipal council (\"gemeenteraad\") is the highest authority in the municipality. Its members are elected every four years. The role of the municipal council is comparable to that of the board of an organisation or institution. Its main job is to decide the municipality's broad policies and to oversee their implementation. The day-to-day administration of the municipality is in the hands of the municipal executive (\"college van burgemeester en wethouders\", abbr. to \"(college van) B&W)\", made up of the mayor (\"burgemeester\") and the aldermen (\"wethouder\", pl. \"wethouders\"). The executive implements national legislation on matters such as social assistance, unemployment benefits and environmental management. It also bears primary responsibility for the financial affairs of the municipality and for its personnel policies. Aldermen are appointed by the council. Councillors can be chosen to act as aldermen. In that case, they lose their seats on the council and their places are taken by other representatives of the same political parties. Non-councillors can also be appointed. Unlike councillors and aldermen, mayors are not elected (not even indirectly), but are appointed by the Crown. Mayors chair both the municipal council and the executive. They have a number of statutory powers and responsibilities of their own. They are responsible for maintaining public order and safety within the municipality and frequently manage the municipality's public relations. As Crown appointees, mayors also have some responsibility for overseeing the work of the municipality, its policies and relations with other government bodies. Although they are obliged to carry out the decisions of the municipal council and executive, they may recommend that the Minister of the Interior quash any decision that they believe to be contrary to the law or against the public interest. Mayors are invariably appointed for a period of six years and are normally re-appointed automatically for another term, provided the municipal council agrees. They can be dismissed only by the Crown and not by the municipal council.\n\nWater boards (\"waterschap\" and \"hoogheemraadschap\", pl. \"waterschappen\" and \"hoogheemraadschappen\") are among the oldest government authorities in the Netherlands. They literally form the foundation of the whole Dutch system of local government; from time immemorial they have shouldered the responsibility for water management for the residents of their area. In polders this mainly involves regulating the water level. It has always been in the common interest to keep water out and polder residents have always had to work together. That is what led to the creation of water boards. The structure of the water boards varies, but they all have a general administrative body and an executive board (\"college van dijkgraaf en heemraden\") consisting of a chairperson (\"dijkgraaf\") and other members (\"(hoog)heemraad\", pl. \"(hoog)heemraden\"). The chairperson also presides the general administrative body. This body consists of people representing the various categories of stakeholders: landholders, leaseholders, owners of buildings, companies and, since recently, all the residents as well. Importance and financial contribution decide how many representatives each category may delegate. Certain stakeholders (e.g. environmental organisations) may be given the power to appoint members. The general administrative body elects the executive board from among its members. The government appoints the chairperson for a period of six years. The general administrative body is elected for a period of four years. In the past the administrative body was elected as individuals but from 2009 they will be elected as party representatives. Unlike municipal council elections, voters do not usually have to go to a polling station but can vote by mail.\n\nNorway's regional administration is organised in 19 counties (fylke), with 18 of them subdivided into 431 municipalities (kommune) per 1 January 2006. The municipal sector is a provider of vital services to the Norwegian public, accounting for about 20% of Norwegian GNP and 24% of total employment. Norway had 435 municipalities of varying size in 2003, each administered by an elected municipal council. They are grouped into 19 counties (fylker), each governed by an elected county council. Each county is headed by a governor appointed by the king in council. Oslo is the only urban center that alone constitutes a county; the remaining 18 counties consist of both urban and rural areas. County and municipal councils are popularly elected every four years. The municipalities have wide powers over the local economy, with the state exercising strict supervision. They have the right to tax and to use their resources to support education, libraries, social security, and public works such as streetcar lines, gas and electricity works, roads, and town planning, but they are usually aided in these activities by state funds.\n\nCurrently, mainland Portugal is divided into 18 districts (in Portuguese, \"distritos\"). Each district takes the name of their respective capital city. Insular Portugal, comprising the two Atlantic archipelagos of the Azores and Madeira, is organized as two autonomous regions (in Portuguese, \"regiões autónomas\").\n\nEach district and each Autonomous region is divided into municipalities (in Portuguese, \"municípios\") which, in turn, are subdivided into parishes (in Portuguese, \"freguesias\").\n\nSince 1976, when the two Autonomous regions of Portugal were established, the Azores and Madeira are no longer divided into districts.\n\nPoland has three levels of subdivision. The territory of Poland is divided into 16 voivodeships (provinces); these are further divided into 379 powiats (counties or districts), and these in turn are divided into 2,479 gminas (communes or municipalities). Major cities normally have the status of both gmina and powiat.\n\nEach voivodeship is governed by a Voivodeship marshal.\n\nSpain is divided into 17 autonomous communities, which in turn are divided into 50 provinces. There are also two autonomous cities: those of Ceuta and Melilla. Finally, each province comprises a number of municipalities.\n\nEach administrative entity is given powers, structure, and boundaries by a law that was passed by the Prime Minister .\n\nLaw 7/1985, passed by the former Spanish President Felipe González Márquez (socialist), lays down the procedure of the Local Government. Every city in Spain used this Law until 2003. This year, the former Spanish President José María Aznar López (conservative), passed a Law (57/2003) to modernize organic rules of those cities which had more than 250,000 inhabitants, and other important cities (like capital cities of provinces with at least 175,000 inhabitants). Also, it exists two other important Laws for specifically Madrid (Law 22/2006) and Barcelona (Law 1/2006). The main governing body in most municipalities is called Ayuntamiento (in the less populated municipalities an alternative local organization system called open council, \"concejo abierto\", is used). The Ayuntamiento in turn is formed by the Plenary (\"el Pleno\", the collective formed by the city councillors) and the Mayor. The number of members that compose The Plenary varies depending on city's population (for example, since 2007 Valencia has 33 members and Pamplona has 27). The name given to the members of the Plenary is councillor (\"concejal\"). Those councillors are elected between city's inhabitants every four years by direct vote. After being elected, councillors meet in a special Plenary session to determine who will be elected, between them, as city's Mayor. In the next days after the election, the mayor chooses some councillors to set up the executive governing body (\"Junta de Gobierno\" or \"Comisión de Gobierno\"). After that, and for the next four years, city's mayor and the \"Junta de Gobierno\" will govern over the city according to their competences (urbanism, some taxes, local police, licenses for specific activities, cleaning services, etc.). Meanwhile, councillors in the Plenary but not part of the \"Junta de Gobierno\" (the opposition) will oversee Mayor's rule.\nThe autonomous community of Catalonia is divided in 4 provinces and more than 900 municipalities. Between these two tiers, there are 41 \"comarques\" (singular, \"comarca\"), roughly equivalent to 'district' or 'county'. The \"comarca\" is a commonwealth, or union, of municipalities with competences in several fields (Law 6/1987 of the Parliament of Catalonia).\n\nEvery fourth year general elections are held in Sweden to elect members of the national parliament, 20 county council assemblies and 290 municipal assemblies. As the parliament elects the national government, the local assemblies elect their executive committees and their boards. Members in local committees and boards are elected proportionally by the political parties in the assemblies, giving all the major parties representation. The parties usually cooperate well on the local levels.\n\nThe county councils (\"landsting\") are responsible for health care and usually provide transportation.\n\nThe municipalities (\"kommuner\") are responsible for:\n\nOn a voluntary basis, the municipalities provide sports, culture, housing, energy as well as commercial service.\n\nThe activities are financed by income taxes. Swedes pay around 20% of their taxable income to the municipality and around 11% to the county council. (The national government is financed by VAT and payroll taxes and fees.)\n\nThe system of local government is different in each of the four home nations of the United Kingdom. In total there are 426 local authorities in the UK. 346 of these are in England, 26 in Northern Ireland, 32 in Scotland and 22 are in Wales.\n\nThe most complex system is in England, the result of numerous reforms and reorganisation over the centuries.\nThe top level of sub-national administration within England until the end of March 2012 consists of the nine regions. The regions were used by central government for various statistical purposes, and Government Offices and assorted other institutions including Regional Development Agencies. Regional Government Offices, Regional Development Agencies and Regional Ministers were all abolished by the Cameron ministry in 2010. Only the London region which is a sub-region compared to the other regions of England has a directly elected government. Only one regional referendum has been held to date to seek consent for the introduction of direct elections elsewhere — in the northeast of England — and this was overwhelmingly rejected by the electorate.\n\nThe layers of elected local government vary. In different areas the highest tier of elected local government may be:\n\nIn most areas there is a lower tier of government, civil parish, with limited functions. Most civil parishes are in rural areas, but if the parish is a town the parish council may be called a town council. In a few cases the parish is a city, and the parish council is called a city council.\n\nMetropolitan counties, and a few non-metropolitan counties, no longer have elected councils or administrative functions, and their former functions are performed by districts. Such counties remain ceremonial counties.\n\nSince 1 April 2015 Northern Ireland is divided into 11 districts. Local government in Northern Ireland does not carry out the same range of functions as those in the rest of the United Kingdom.\n\nLocal government in Scotland is arranged on the lines of unitary authorities, with the nation divided into 32 council areas.\n\nWales has a uniform system of 22 unitary authorities, variously styled as county, county borough, city or city and county local authorities. There are also communities, equivalent to parishes.\n\nCanada has a federal system with three orders of government. The largest is the federal government, followed by the provincial and local governments. Municipal governments are separately elected. They must follow laws and guidelines as set out by their province, but are allowed to pass additional by-laws and acts unique to them.\n\nMexico is a Federal Republic made up by 31 states and a federal district. Each state is divided in \"municipios\", while the federal district is divided in sixteen \"delegaciones\". Twenty-nine states of Mexico were created as administrative divisions by the constitution of 1917, which grants them those powers not expressly vested in the federal government; Mexico's two remaining territories, Baja California Sur and Quintana Roo, achieved statehood on 9 October 1974, raising the total to 31. Each state has a constitution, a governor elected for six years, and a unicameral legislature, with representatives elected by district vote in proportion to population. An ordinary session of the legislature is held annually, and extraordinary sessions may be called by the governor or the permanent committee. Bills may be introduced by legislators, by the governor, by the state supreme court, and by municipalities (a unit comparable to a US county). In addition to the 31 states, there is also one federal district comprising Mexico City, whose governor serves as a member of the cabinet. Many state services are supported by federal subsidies.\n\nThe principal unit of state government is the municipality. Mexico's 2,378 municipalities are governed by municipal presidents and municipal councils. State governors generally select the nominees for the municipal elections. Municipal budgets are approved by the respective state governors. Until 1997, the president appointed the mayor of Mexico City. Political reforms allowed the first open elections in 1997, and Cuauhtémoc Cardenas Solórzano became Mexico City's first elected mayor.\n\nLocal government in the United States refers to governmental jurisdictions below the level of the state. Most states have at least two tiers of local government: counties and municipalities. In some states, counties are divided into townships. There are several different types of jurisdictions at the municipal level, including the city, town, parish, borough, village, reservations and boundaries. The types and nature of these municipal entities varies from state to state.\n\nLocal government is the third type of government in Australia, after Federal and State.\n\nNew Zealand has a local government system comprising two complementary sets of local authorities—regional councils and territorial authorities. There are 78 local authorities consisting of:\nSix of the territorial authorities are unitary authorities, which also have the powers of a regional council. They are Auckland Council, Nelson City Council, the Gisborne, Marlborough and Tasman district councils, and Chatham Islands Council.\n\nRegional council areas are based on water catchment areas, whereas territorial authorities are based on community of interest and road access. Within a regional council area there are usually many city or district councils, although city and district councils can be in multiple regional council areas.\n\nArgentina is a federation of 23 provinces and the federal capital of Buenos Aires. During the 19th century there was a bitter struggle between Buenos Aires and the interior provinces, and there has long been an element of tension regarding the division of powers between the central government and provincial bodies. The federal government retains control over such matters as the regulation of commerce, customs collections, currency, civil or commercial codes, or the appointment of foreign agents. The provincial governors are elected every four years.\n\nThe constitutional \"national intervention\" and \"state of siege\" powers of the president have been invoked frequently. The first of these powers was designed to \"guarantee the republican form of government in the provinces.\" Since the adoption of the 1853 constitution, the federal government has intervened over 200 times, mostly by presidential decree. Under this authority, provincial and municipal offices may be declared vacant, appointments annulled, and local elections supervised. Between 1966 and 1973, all local legislatures were dissolved and provincial governors were appointed by the new president. A restoration of provincial and municipal government followed the return to constitutional government in 1973. After the March 1976 coup, the federal government again intervened to remove all provincial governors and impose direct military rule over all municipalities. Since 1983, representative local government has been in force again.\n\nUntil 1996, the President appointed the mayor of Buenos Aires, and by law, the president and Congress controlled any legislation that affected the city. Constitutional reforms that year led to an elected mayoral position, and a 60-member Poder Legislativo (legislative power).\n\nBrazil is divided into 26 states and a federal district, the government is divided into federal, state, and municipalities. The federal district has no municipalities and acts as a state and municipality at the same time.\n\nThere is no minimum or maximum population requirement for municipalities. Borá is the smallest municipality of the country with 805 inhabitants, São Paulo is the largest with 11,316,149 inhabitants.\n\nElections in federal, state and municipalities follow all the same system, with elections of president, governor and mayor for executive branch and federal deputy, federal senate, state deputy and alderman for legislative branch. In municipalities according to the constitution, the number of alderman varies from 9 to 55 aldermans.\n\nParaguay is divided into 17 departments, which are subdivided into districts, which, in turn, comprise municipalities (the minimum requirement for a municipality is 3,000 persons) and rural districts (partidos). A governor, elected by popular vote, runs each department. Municipal government is exercised through a municipal board, chosen by direct election, and an executive department. In the principal cities and capitals, the executive department is headed by a mayor appointed by the minister of the interior; in other localities, the mayor is appointed by the presidents of the municipal boards.Police chiefs are appointed by the central government.\n\nPeru is divided into 25 regions and the province of Lima. Each region has an elected government composed of a president and council that serve four-year terms. These governments plan regional development, execute public investment projects, promote economic activities, and manage public property. The province of Lima is administered by a city council. The goal of devolving power to regional and municipal governments was among others to improve popular participation. NGOs played an important role in the decentralisation process and still influence local politics.\n\nUruguay's administrative subdivisions consisted of nineteen territories called departments and governed by intendencias, which were subordinate to the central government and responsible for local administration. They enforced national laws and administered the nation's social and educational policies and institutions within their territories. These territories had limited taxing powers, but they could borrow funds and acquire property. They also had the power to establish unpaid five-member local boards or town councils in municipalities other than the departmental capital if the population was large enough to warrant such a body.\n\nExecutive authority was vested in a governor (intendente), who administered the department, and in a thirty-one-member departmental board (junta departmental), which carried out legislative functions. These functions included approval of the departmental budget and judicial actions, such as impeachment proceedings against departmental officials, including the governor. At the municipal level, a mayor (intendente municipal) assumed executive and administrative duties, carrying out resolutions made by the local board (whose members were appointed on the basis of proportional representation of the political parties). The governor was required to comply with and enforce the constitution and the laws and to promulgate the decrees enacted by the departmental board. The governor was authorized to prepare the budget, submit it for approval to the departmental board, appoint the board's employees, and, if necessary, discipline or suspend them. The governor represented the department in its relations with the national government and other departmental governments and in the negotiation of contracts with public or private agencies.\n\nLike the governor, the members of the departmental board and the mayor were elected for five-year terms in direct, popular elections. A governor could be reelected only once, and candidates for the post had to meet the same requirements as those for a senator, in addition to being a native of the department or a resident therein for at least three years before assuming office. Departmental board members had to be at least twenty-three years of age, native born (or a legal citizen for at least three years), and a native of the department (or a resident for at least three years).\n\nThe board sat in the capital city of each department and exercised jurisdiction throughout the entire territory of the department. It could issue decrees and resolutions that it deemed necessary either on the suggestion of the governor or on its own initiative. It could approve budgets, fix the amount of taxes, request the intervention of the Accounts Tribunal for advice concerning departmental finances or administration, and remove from office—at the request of the governor—members of nonelective local departmental boards. The board also supervised local public services; public health; and primary, secondary, preparatory, industrial, and artistic education. Although Montevideo was the smallest department in terms of area (divided into twenty-three geographic zones that generally coincided with the electoral zones), its departmental board had sixty-five members in 1990; all other departments had thirty-one-member boards and a five-member executive council appointed by the departmental board, with proportional representation from the principal political parties.\n\nData as of December 1990\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5574092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5574092", "title": "Longford Prize", "text": "Longford Prize\n\nThe Longford Prize is an annual award presented in the United Kingdom to an organisation or individual working in the field of social or penal reform. The award was established in 2002 in honour of Lord Longford, a lifelong penal reform campaigner, and has been sponsored by both The Independent and the Daily Telegraph. It is organized in association with the Prison Reform Trust and is presented at the annual Longford Lecture.\n\nThe winner is presented with a cheque for £5,000. Additional prizes are awarded by the judges to highly commended individuals and organisations, and occasionally a lifetime achievement award is made, usually to someone who has made a difference by their own initiative and resourcefulness in prisoners' lives. Next year's prize will be awarded at the 2017 Longford Lecture in November. The prize is now sponsored by the McGrath Charitable Trust.\n\nThe judges for the Longford Prize in 2017 were: Lord Ramsbotham (formerly Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Prisons), Chloe Billington, child therapist, contributor to Inside Time and National Prison Radio, the journalist, Mary Riddell; Peter Stanford and a representative of the sponsors, The McGrath Charitable Trust. The panel is chaired by former prison governor and Longford Trust trustee, John Podmore.\n\nThe two winners of the Prize in 2016 were the charity Unlock. and the Shakespeare Trilogy project. Unlock, founded in 1999, is run by people with convictions for the estimated 10.5 million people living with convictions in the UK. It has the invaluable aim of countering the sometimes lifelong disadvantage that can result from having a criminal record.\nThe Shakespeare Trilogy is an outreach scheme by Clean Break Theatre Company, York Saint John University’s Prison Partnership Project and the Donmar Warehouse, developed from over four years of workshops in women’s jails.\n\nThe Lifetime Achievement Award was presented to Juliet Lyon.\n\nThe winner of the Longford Prize in 2015 was PACT. In their citation, the judges wrote: \"“Good research and good practice have both long shown that maintaining strong family ties is one of the key factors in offenders’ rehabilitation and avoidance of re-offending.\n\nThe judges also highly commended the Thames Valley Partnership and In2Change, and made a Lifetime Achievement Award to Eric McGraw, of Inside Time.\n\nThe 2014 Longford Prize was awarded to Marina Cantecuzino of The Forgiveness Project, for her \"significant contribution to reducing reoffending as well as having a wider impact in creating a more positive commitment in our criminal justice system to restorative justice\".\n\nA Lifetime Achievement Award was given to New Horizon Youth Centre. A drop-in day centre, founded by in 1968.\n\nThe 2013 prize was awarded to the Prison Radio Association as \"a model of transforming rehabilitation\". A Lifetime Achievement Award was made to Revd Paul Cowley.\n\nThe 2012 prize was awarded to the Prisoners' Advice Service (PAS) for work in prisoners' advocacy. A Lifetime Achievement Award was made to Paul Cavadino for his work with NACRO.\n\nThe 2011 prize was awarded to The Clink Charity, a skills and rehabilitation organisation based at HMP High Down. A Lifetime Achievement Award was made to David Brown.\n\nThe 2010 prize was awarded to Circles UK. Circles helps newly released sex offenders. A Lifetime Achievement Award was made to Peter Kilgarriff\n\nThe 2009 prize was awarded to Inquest. This charity helps people bereaved by a death in custody. The judges praised it for its \"remarkable perseverance, personal commitment and courage in an area too often under-investigated by the public authorities.\"\n\nThe 2008 prize was awarded to HMP Grendon. The judges were impressed in particular by the prison's proven track record in cutting reoffending and promoting the principles of rehabilitation. A Lifetime Achievement Award was given to Lucy Gampell, director of Action for Prisoners' Families\n\nThe 2007 prize was awarded to Prisoners Abroad, a UK charity which supports Britons who are imprisoned overseas. The judges praised \"its courage, persistence and humanity, over almost three decades, sometimes in the face of public and official indifference and even hostility\". Special mention was also made of The Forgiveness Project and Joe Baden and the Open Book Project.\n\nIn 2006 the Longford Prize was given to FPWP Hibiscus, a small charity, working with female foreign national prisoners. Special mentions went to Chance UK; Roma Hooper; and Lucie Russell and Smart Justice.\n\nThe 2005 prize was awarded to Steven Taylor, Director of the Forum on Prisoner Education, for promoting the rehabilitation and re-integration of prisoners into society.\n\nChristopher Morgan was awarded the prize in 2004 for setting up the Shannon Trust in 1997 which trains prisoners to teach their fellow inmates reading and writing.\n\nBarbara Tudor was awarded the Longford Prize in 2003 for her work in restorative justice.\n\nThe winner of the first Longford Prize was Audrey Edwards, in 2002. After her mentally-ill son, Christopher, was murdered in Chelmsford Prison, Edwards campaigned to improve mental health care for offenders.\n\nThe Longford Trust\nAdministers the Prize and the Lectures and offers scholarships.\n\nThe Longford Lectures\nPrestigious Lecture series held annually in the field of prisons, criminal justice and society.\n\nEarl of Longford\nThe Trust was set up to promote and continue the campaigning work of Frank Pakenham, Earl of Longford.\n\n"}
{"id": "12426655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12426655", "title": "Ministry of the economy", "text": "Ministry of the economy\n\nA ministry of the economy, ministry of commerce, ministry of economic affairs, or department of commerce etc. is a part of the government in most countries that is responsible for matters related to the economy (see also the article on ministries or departments).\n\nExamples of such ministries include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41810672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41810672", "title": "National Intelligence and Security Service", "text": "National Intelligence and Security Service\n\nThe National Intelligence and Security Service (, \"Jihaaz Al Amn Al Watani Wal Mukhaabaraat\") is the intelligence service of the federal government of Sudan. The NISS is an incredibly powerful body, and has been granted extensive powers by the National Security Acts of 1999 and 2010 and has been referred to as a secret police organization.\n\nIt is widely accepted that in addition to its domestic operations, the NISS has operations and agents throughout the Middle East, North Africa and Western Europe. The secretive organisation's most well known operation is its massive intelligence network in Iraq, which it was able to build by recruiting foreign fighters passing through Khartoum on their way to Iraq.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2009 the NISS was led by Salah Gosh until he was removed by President Al-Bashir and replaced with Mohammed Atta al-Moula, who the deputy director of the service who has led it ever since.\n\nThe NISS also operates the Rapid Support Forces.\n"}
{"id": "271812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271812", "title": "National unity government", "text": "National unity government\n\nA national unity government, government of national unity, or national union government is a broad coalition government consisting of all parties (or all major parties) in the legislature, usually formed during a time of war or other national emergency.\n\nFollowing the disputed 2014 presidential elections, a National Unity Government (NUG) between both run-off candidates was formed.\n\nDuring World War I the Conservative government of Sir Robert Borden invited the Liberal opposition to join the government as a means of dealing with the Conscription crisis of 1917. The Liberals, led by Sir Wilfrid Laurier refused; however, Borden was able to convince many individual Liberals to join what was called a \"Union Government\", which defeated the Laurier Liberals in the fall 1917 election.\n\nDuring World War II, the opposition Conservative Party ran under the name National Government in the 1940 election as a means of promoting their platform of creating a wartime national government coalition (evocative of the previous war's \"Union government\"). The party was not successful in the election, which re-elected the Liberal government of William Lyon Mackenzie King, whose party continued to rule alone for the duration of World War II.\n\nThe Dominion of Newfoundland (not to be part of Canada for another three decades) had a National Government during World War I led by Edward Patrick Morris.\n\nCroatia formed a national unity government in 1991 under prime minister Franjo Gregurić in response to the outbreak of the Croatian War of Independence. Even though the cabinet included ministers from minority parties, all heads of ministries were either from the majority Croatian Democratic Union or soon defected to it.\n\nEstonia had national unity governments during the Estonian War of Independence (Päts I—III Provisional cabinets) and after the 1924 communist coup d'état attempt (Jaakson cabinet).\n\nA national unity government in Greece is often called ecumenical government:\n\nThere are four periods in Hungary when national unity governments emerged:\n\nIsrael has had several \"national unity governments\", in which major rival parties formed a ruling coalition. Such a coalition was notably formed in the days leading up to the Six-Day War, and after the 1984 elections.\n\nIn the republican era, the first two cabinets, led by Alcide De Gasperi, were supported by all three of the following parties, the pro-American Christian Democrats and the pro-Soviet Italian Communist Party and Italian Socialist Party.\n\nAfterwards, the first government generally recognised as a national unity government was the third Andreotti Cabinet, also known as \"non-no confidence vote\" government, as the Italian Communist Party decided to not take part at the confidence vote. The communists voted in favour of the motion of confidence for the following cabinet, still led by Giulio Andreotti.\n\nDuring the Eurozone crisis, the two main parties, The People of Freedom and the Democratic Party, along with other minor political forces, supported the Monti cabinet, and eventually, after the 2013 general election, formed a grand coalition in support of the Letta Cabinet, which, however, was opposed by a new major political force in parliament, the anti-establishment Five Star Movement.\n\nHere is a list of national unity or grand coalition governments:\n\nFrom 2008 to 2013, Kenya was governed by Government of National Unity between the rival Party of National Unity of Mwai Kibaki and the Orange Democratic Movement of Raila Odinga following the 2007 presidential election and subsequent violence. This was due to the ODM winning the majority of seats in the National Assembly, but controversially losing the presidential election by a margin that has since been called into question for its validity.\n\nSince Lebanon is a multireligious state and consensus democracy, having a national unity government is more favorable in this country. Unlike other democracies, no group in Lebanon can govern alone.\n\nLuxembourg has had two \"National Union Governments\". The first was formed in 1916, during World War I (in which Luxembourg was neutral, but occupied by Germany nonetheless). It was led by Victor Thorn and included all of the major factions in the Chamber of Deputies, but lasted for only sixteen months.\n\nThe second National Union Government was formed in November 1945, in the aftermath of World War II, which had devastated Luxembourg. It was led by Pierre Dupong, who had been Prime Minister in the government in exile in the war, and included all four parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies. The government lasted until 1947, by which time, a normal coalition between two of the three largest parties had been arranged, thus maintaining the confidence of the legislature.\n\nIn addition, Luxembourg had a \"Liberation Government\" between November 1944 and November 1945, also under Dupong. It served a similar emergency role to a national government, but included only the two largest parties, the CSV and the LSAP.\n\nFollowing the devastating April 2015 Nepal earthquake, top political parties in Nepal have decided to form a national unity government in order to handle the crisis and draft a constitution that's been long overdue. The major political parties and unified political fronts have agreed to settle the disputed issues of the constitution drafting process by 3 June and to form a national unity government.\n\nThe interim constitution negotiated by the multi-party negotiations that started in 1990 allowed all parties that gained more than 10% of the vote to participate in a Government of National Unity. The new government that was elected in 1994 therefore had members from many political parties in the cabinet. This government of national unity lasted until the general election in 1999, although a reported lack of shared decision-making prompted the second-largest party to withdraw from the GNU in 1996. \n\nFollowing the fall of Mahinda Rajapaksa regime United National Party who won the 2015 elections formed a National Unity Government with the main opposition Sri Lanka Freedom Party Under Maithripala Sirisena and Ranil Wickramasinghe.\n\nFirst-past-the-post voting, the British electoral system, has long increased the likelihood of a single party gaining a majority of members of Parliament, who have run most departments and the government legislation of the country since the early 20th century.\n\nAfter the formation of clear political parties in the Lords and Commons, the first national unity government in the country was the Ministry of All the Talents that led the United Kingdom for about a year after the death of William Pitt the Younger in 1806, during the Napoleonic Wars. This ministry had cross-party support, ranging from very socially conservative Tories, and the broad range of Whigs (among them Charles James Fox and his 'Foxites'), selected for their combined broad political support in both Houses of Parliament and known capabilities in a time of crisis. However, the ministry was frustrated in its attempts to make peace with France, and despite one major legislative success (banning the slave trade in Britain), it fell apart in 1807 over the question of Catholic Emancipation and was replaced following a general election by a Tory ministry led by the Duke of Portland.\n\nIt proved that major wars and the long recovery to Great Depression would be the only further instances of National Governments.\n\nThe Asquith coalition ministry presented a brief national coalition (1915–1916) during World War I.\n\nThereafter a coalition that faced few opposition MPs under David Lloyd George lasted until 1922 when his National Liberal Party formally split with the Liberal Party.\n\nDuring the Great Depression the first of four consecutive \"National Governments\" was formed in 1931 by Ramsay MacDonald (Labour/National Labour) succeeded by Stanley Baldwin (Conservative) with their largest opponent and the Liberals. Most members of the Labour and Liberal Parties rejected the government, however, and moved to the opposition benches leaving MacDonald's supporters to rival mainstream party candidates in many cases as National Labour/National Labour Organisation or in Lloyd George's revived National Liberal Party. Notably candidates styled in this way contested the 1935 election; this long period of quasi-national government took in broader support and widened its selections of ministers in the war years, and its fourth transmutation persisted until the general election of 1945.\n\nIn hopes of bridging partisan politics during the American Civil War, Republican Abraham Lincoln ran his second term as a National Union government with Democrat Andrew Johnson as his vice president. The new National Union Party allowed members to retain affiliations with other political parties.\n\nSince the Civil War, there has never been a \"national unity\" government in the United States in the traditional sense. There have been several instances, however, during national disasters or wars, that the two parties have briefly \"rallied around the President.\" Such instances include the attack on Pearl Harbor, the assassination of John F. Kennedy, and the September 11 attacks, all of which not only had a worldwide effect, but preceded a massive spike in the approval rating of the sitting President.\n\nThe 2008–2009 Zimbabwean political negotiations between the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (led by Morgan Tsvangirai), its small splinter group, the Movement for Democratic Change – Mutambara (led by Arthur Mutambara), and the ruling Zimbabwe African National Union – Patriotic Front (led by Robert Mugabe) created a framework for a power-sharing executive government between the two parties. These negotiations followed the 2008 presidential election, in which Mugabe was controversially re-elected, as well as the 2008 parliamentary election, in which the MDC won a majority in the House of Assembly. The new national unity government, including Tsvangirai, was sworn in on 11 February 2009.\n\nSome countries such as New Zealand have or have had a \"National Party\", which can lead to the use of the phrase \"National government\" when it is in power. Such governments are not national governments in the sense of this article.\n\n"}
{"id": "1644596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1644596", "title": "New Nationalist Party (UK)", "text": "New Nationalist Party (UK)\n\nThe New Nationalist Party was a small, far-right political party founded by former members of the British National Party (BNP) in 2006. It was based in the West Midlands and its most prominent member was the former BNP member Sharon Ebanks. Earlier in 2006, Ebanks was briefly a councillor in the Kingstanding ward in Birmingham before being forced to resign when it was shown that she had been awarded it due to counting irregularities despite losing the election.\n\nThe party, which used the slogan \"Neither Left nor Right, but British\", was registered with the Electoral Commission on 11 December 2006 and deregistered on 1 November 2008.\n\nUnlike the BNP, which now generally tends to be hostile towards Islam, the NNP stated that it was less critical of external influences, and that it concentrated more on local, community based politics. The party was also involved with a campaign to combat drug dealers in schools in Birmingham.\n\nThe party also took a leading role in the campaign to save Kingstanding community centre from demolition, with Ebanks accusing local councillors of lying after they stated the building had been condemned as unsafe due to the presence of asbestos.\n\nThe party held its inaugural meeting in January 2007 in the West Midlands. Officials appointed at that time were Sharon Ebanks (chairman), Dave Cheetham (deputy chairman), Keith Axon (treasurer), Matthew Benton (nominating officer), Tom Simpson (party legal officer), Maureen Davies (national fundraiser) and David Williams (website editor).\n\nThe NNP did not have any elected councillors or Members of Parliament, nor did it inherit any councillors who had belonged to the BNP.\n\nUnlike an earlier breakaway, the England First Party, which supports English nationalism, the NNP remained supportive of British nationalism, although it campaigned to make St George's Day a national holiday.\n\nAccording to the NNP website the party's policies included:\n\nIts policy base was dismissed by the \"Daily Mirror\" who described the party as being \"anti-European, anti-immigrant party. But wants free dental care for all, which is nice.\"\n\nThe NNP's first foray into electoral politics came at the 2007 local elections with the party standing four candidates in Birmingham and one each in North Tyneside and Teesside. The presence of the party in local elections in Birmingham was by the \"Birmingham Mail\" as effectively ending any hope of the BNP gaining a council seat in the city due to a split far right vote. This was proven correct as the BNP's vote in the city fell considerably from its previous level.\n\nIt obtained 357 votes across Birmingham and only 59 votes in Whitley Bay ward, North Tyneside. Ebanks managed 171 votes in Kingstanding and was not elected. Labour Party councillor Peter Kane, who won the seat, claimed that with the failure of the NNP \"the Kingstanding people are sending out the message that we are a community which will solve problems together.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23614948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23614948", "title": "Nomination rules", "text": "Nomination rules\n\nNomination rules in elections regulate the conditions under which a candidate or political party is entitled to stand for election. The right to stand for election is sometimes called passive suffrage, as distinct from \"active suffrage\", which is the right to vote. The criteria to stand as a candidate depends on the individual legal system. They may include the age of a candidate, citizenship, endorsement by a political party and profession. Laws restrictions, such as competence or moral aptitude, can be used in a discriminatory manner. Restrictive and discriminatory nomination rules can impact the civil rights of candidates, political parties, and voters.\n\nIn some jurisdictions a candidate or party must not only be nominated but also has to pass separate rules in order to be listed on the ballot paper. In the United States, this is called ballot access.\n\nAustralia\n\nCandidates in elections to the House of Commons must obtain a number of signatures from the riding they are standing in - either 50 or 100 depending on the riding. They must also pay a deposit of CAD $1000, which can be reclaimed only if the candidate's official agent submits the Candidate's Electoral Campaign Return and related documents to the Chief Electoral Officer and unused official tax receipts to the returning officer within the time prescribed.\n\nEU member states may set their own rules on ballot access in elections to the European Parliament. In Denmark, Germany, Greece, Estonia, the Netherlands, Sweden, and the Czech Republic, candidates must be nominated by political parties. In the other member states, a specified number of signatures is needed. In the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, a deposit is required as well as signatures. In the Republic of Ireland, candidates may be nominated either by a registered political party or by 60 members of the relevant electorate.\n\nCandidates for the office of President of the Republic require 500 signatures of elected individuals (mayors, MPs, regional councillors).\n\nCandidates for election to the European Parliament, the Riksdag, county councils or municipal councils stand on the ballots of their respective parties. Parties can have one or several lists. The so-called \"free right of nomination\" (\"fri nomineringsrätt\") means that if a party has not protected its party label, anyone can set up a ballot for that party. This means that people could be elected for a party who do not have the support of the people behind the party. To avoid this, the party must apply for a protected label. There are no regulations for how a party whose party label isn't protected must be organised. Forming a party or running in the election is thus comparatively easy, and there have been occasions where a single individual has put up dozens of different ballots with various more or less frivolous names and himself as the only candidate. Parties pay for their own ballots unless they have received more than 1 percent of the vote in one of the last two Riksdag elections, in which case the Elections Authority pays. (Further, parties that have received more than 1 percent of the vote in one of the last two elections to the European Parliament get their ballots paid for in European elections as well.) The Elections Authority makes sure, however, that there are blank ballots where voters can write in the name of the party they want to vote for.\n\nTo be given a protected label, a party must have a constitution, a board, and must decide on its name and on applying for protected label status with the Swedish Central Elections Authority. It must also appoint someone to act on its behalf when presenting the application to the Elections Authority. These decisions must be laid down in a protocol. It must also require a number of signatures from eligible voters: 50 for municipal elections, 150 for county council elections, and 1,500 for elections to the Riksdag or the European Parliament. Finally, the name of the party must not be too close to the name of an already protected party label in order to avoid confusion.\n\nA party with a protected label is protected against ballots with party labels that are confusingly similar to the party's own, or ballots with other candidates than those the party reports. (This does not hold for other areas than the one where the party is running - hence there can be and there are completely separate parties with the same name in different municipalities and county councils.) In return, it must ensure that its candidates have agreed in writing to run for the party.\n\nThe following are the basic nomination rules for an individual candidate (whether Independent, or associated with a political party). To use a party name (and logo) a candidate must be authorised by a registered political party, or else they may stand as 'Independent' or with no description.\n\nA candidate for election to the United Kingdom Parliament, Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly or Northern Ireland assembly requires the signed assent of ten registered electors, plus a deposit of £500 which is forfeited if the candidate wins less than 5% of the vote.\n\nA list of candidates for election in a European Parliament constituency does not require the assent of any electors but must pay a deposit of £5,000, which is forfeited if that list wins less than 2.5% of the vote.\n\nA candidate for local government office does not need to pay a deposit (except for mayoral elections, for which the deposit is £500), but needs the assent of either two registered electors (for parish or town elections) or ten registered electors (for all other local elections).\n\nBallot access in the United States varies widely between the various states. \n"}
{"id": "514202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=514202", "title": "Okavango River", "text": "Okavango River\n\nThe Okavango River (formerly spelled Okovango or Okovanggo) is a river in southwest Africa. It is the fourth-longest river system in southern Africa, running southeastward for . It begins in Angola, where it is known by the Portuguese name Rio Cubango. Further south, it forms part of the border between Angola and Namibia, and then flows into Botswana, draining into the Moremi Game Reserve.\n\nBefore it enters Botswana, the river drops 4 m in a series of rapids known as Popa Falls, visible when the river is low, as during the dry season.\n\nDischarging to an endorheic basin, the Okavango does not have an outlet to the sea. Instead, it empties into a swamp in the Kalahari Desert, known as the Okavango Delta or Okavango Alluvial Fan. In the rainy season, an outflow to the Boteti River in turn seasonally discharges to the Makgadikgadi Pans, which features an expansive area of rainy-season wetland where tens of thousands of flamingos congregate each summer. Part of the river's flow fills Lake Ngami. Noted for its wildlife, the Okavango area contains Botswana's Moremi Game Reserve.\n\nDuring colder periods in Earth's history, a part of the Kalahari was a massive lake, known as Lake Makgadikgadi. In this time, the Okavango would have been one of its largest tributaries.\nBoth Namibia and Botswana experience drought, and as a result, concerns have been expressed about possible conflict over use of the river's water. Namibia has built a water canal, measuring about 300 km long, and has proposed a project to build a 250-km pipeline to divert water from the river into Namibia to help relieve the drought.\n\nBotswana, however, uses the Okavango Delta for both tourism income and a water source. The Department of Water Affairs in Botswana has submitted that 97% of the water in the river is lost through evaporation, so the country cannot afford to lose any extra water.\n\nNamibia, in turn, has argued that it will only divert half of one percent of the river's flow, and that it is entitled to any water that flows through its country. To deal with such issues, in September 1994, Angola, Namibia, and Botswana signed an agreement to form the Permanent Okavango River Basin Water Commission, to provide advice to the three countries about the best ways to share the Okavango River's resources.\n\nEvery wet season, Angola receives three times more rainfall than Botswana, discharging a higher than usual flow into the Okavango, turning swathes of outlying desert into a huge wetland.\n\nAlthough the summer rains fall in Angola in January, they take a whole month to travel the first 1,000 km of the Okavango River, and then they take a further four months to filter through the plants and numerous channels of the final 250 km of the delta. As a result, the flood is at its biggest sometime between June and August, during Botswana’s dry winter months. The delta then swells to three times its permanent size, attracting animals from miles around and creating one of Africa’s greatest concentrations of wildlife.\n\nAt its widest point in a big flood year, the seasonal swamp stretches to 150 km across from east to west; one of the factors that leads to the ever-changing nature of the delta is the flatness of the area. If one were to take a cross section of the delta at its widest point, one would find that the height variation from the mean over that 150 km is less than 2 m, which means that a minor sand deposition can cause major changes.\n\nIn very wet years, a part of the river's flow may extend along the Magweggana River (actually a northeastern distributary of the Okavango Delta) and enter the Zambezi River, bypassing the Kalahari.\n\n"}
{"id": "28776919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28776919", "title": "Online Business Licensing System", "text": "Online Business Licensing System\n\nOnline Business Licensing Service (OBLS) is a one-stop portal for businessmen to apply for all the required Singapore government licences in a single online transaction. The service routes all applications to various government agency for processing.\n\nThe World Bank has ranked Singapore first in the Ease of Doing Business Index. The OBLS system contributes to this ranking.\n\nOBLS was first conceived by the Pro-Enterprise Panel, a high level joint public-private sector panel chaired by the Head of Civil Service, Singapore. The panel received a lot of business feedback to cut red-tape in making it easy to start businesses in Singapore.\n\nSmall and medium enterprises were the main target of the OBLS project due to their large number. This group were generally unhappy with the costs and complexities of the licensing process.\n\nOBLS was also a key project under the Singapore e-Government Action Plan II.\n\n260 business licences that are issued by more than 30 government agencies in Singapore are found in the OBLS. More than 80% of start-up businesses in Singapore are served by OBLS without having to visit Government counters. The system also offers Update, Renewal and Termination services for 65 licences.\n\n\nAs of 1 October 2005, the average license processing time for all new applications including those not handled by OBLS was reduced from 21 to 8 days as a result of the reengineering exercise and OBLS implementation. 85 licenses were processed in less than a week. Of these, 43 were processed in less than three days. \nBased on the cost-benefit analysis done at 31 Dec 2006, businesses have benefited from the OBLS project with an estimated cost savings of US$27 million (since the pilot launch in Jan 2004 ). The cost savings were derived from the reduction in the amount of licence fees, reduction in the processing time of licences and the time-savings by businessmen who now do not need to travel and queue up physically and complete multiple application forms that ask for similar information. Businessman have given the OBLS an 80% positive feedback rating.\n\nOBLS won the following awards:\n\nIt is widely recognised that countries that have invested in infocomm as a key enabler to transform their business environment have reaped tremendous benefits. The success of OBLS in Singapore has caught the attention of countries also keen to promote a world-class pro-enterprise business environment. Singapore, through the Infocomm Development Authority (IDA), has been actively sharing their experience on government e-Transformation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3387191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3387191", "title": "Party subsidies", "text": "Party subsidies\n\nParty subsidies or public funding of political parties are subsidies paid by the government directly to a political party to fund some or all of its political activities. Most democracies (in one way or the other) provide cash grants (state aid) from taxpayers' money, the general revenue fund, for party activity. Such funds may cover routine or campaign costs incurred by the party. Among the established democracies the United States (the Presidential Fund takes money from the general fund of the US government only after authorized by a statement indicated upon a taxpayers tax return), Switzerland and India are the most notable exceptions. Party subsidies can be relatively small (as in the U.K.) or quite generous (as in Sweden, Israel and Japan).\n\nThe recipients of public support (in cash or kind) are party organizations, parliamentary groups (party caucuses) and/ or candidates for public office (parliament or presidency). In combination with rules that enforce fair access to and fair distribution of state aid among the players of the political game, government funding for political activity can be an acceptable policy option for democratic polities. The allocation of party subsidies follows general rules for access to and distribution of such grant, for example access for all parties represented in the national parliament and distribution in proportion to the number of seats held in the current parliament, or in proportion to the number of votes polled in the most recent election. Many subsidy schemes are linked to reporting and disclosure obligations for the recipient parties.\n\nRare instruments of party subsidies are matching funds and tax credits. Matching funds are granted to a political competitor who has proven to a government authority that he or she solicited small individual donations. Tax credits can be deducted by the taxpayer from tax liability because some part of a political donation is treated like an advance payment on tax. Because matching funds and tax credits depend on financial contributions by individual citizens such support is more compatible with a participatory concept of democracy than flat grants, which do not require specific efforts by the fundraising parties (or candidates).\n\nIn many democracies public funding for political parties was introduced after scandals, which revealed political corruption or illegal funding, had become public knowledge. In other countries, the rising costs of political competition stimulated the spread of party subsidies (government funding). \n\nAlthough the mainstream opinion is in favour of party subsidies now, they are still disputed. Supporters of party subsidies argue that directly providing the campaign funds reduces political corruption, as parties do not need to raise \"money with an opinion/ strings attached\".\n\nIn 1954 Costa Rica and Uruguay were the first countries to introduce party subsidies. They were followed by Puerto Rico (a U.S. territory in the Caribbean) in 1957 and West Germany in 1959. In Quebec (1963), a Canadian province, Sweden (1965), Finland (1967) and Israel (1969) parties received such support rather early. Since the 1970s, party subsidies were introduced by Norway (1970), Canada and Italy (1974), Austria (1975), the U.S. (1976), Australia (1984), Denmark (1986), France (1988), Belgium (1989), Japan (1994), Ireland (1997), the Netherlands (1999), the U.K. (2000) and New Zealand (2010). Nowadays among the established democracies only India and Switzerland stand out as exceptions to the rule. By now it is also used in Greece, Portugal, Spain and other more recently established democracies in Europe and Latin America.\n\nIn Italy, following the abolition of the state financing of political parties, clear examples are initiatives of Prime Minister Matteo Renzi who organized on 6 and 7 November 2014, two fund-raising dinners, held respectively in Rome and Milan, for the Italian Democratic Party, which included, among the dinner guests,\nIn Italy however political parties keep receiving money even if the state financing was abolished, James Pallotta.\n\nCritics of party subsidies argue that party subsidies: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57071544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57071544", "title": "Political purges during and after the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests", "text": "Political purges during and after the 1989 Tiananmen Square protests\n\nThe Tiananmen Square protests of 1989 were a turning point for many Chinese officials, who were subjected to a purge that started after June 4, 1989. The purge covered top-level government figures down to local officials, and included General Secretary Zhao Ziyang and his associates. The purge took the form of a massive ideological campaign that lasted 18 months. At least 4 million party members (a tenth of the total) were under some sort of investigation. The government stated that the purge was undertaken for the purpose of “resolutely getting rid of hostile elements, antiparty elements, and corrupt elements\" as well as \"dealing strictly with those inside the party serious tendencies toward bourgeois liberalization” and purify the party.\n\nParty members who joined the demonstration before the declaration of martial law had to write thousand-word accounts to prove their loyalty, but ultimately their loyalty would be determined by the party. Only the members whose loyalty had been proved could re-register their party memberships. Those who expressed the desire to resign to protest the crackdown were not allowed resignation, instead, the party would expel them.\n\nThe initial stage of the purge only targeted approximately 250 liberal-minded leading cadres who played an active role in supporting the student protest. However, when the party hardliners tried to expand the purge within the party, they found it difficult to isolate a “small handful” of officials. Although an investigation was launched against all ranks of officials across the country after the event, the result did not match the Chinese Communist Party’s expectation.\n\nOver 800,000 party members and cadres had supported the student movement, but according to the Fourteenth Party Congress in October 1992, only 1,179 party cadres were punished and a total of 13,254 party cadres were required to undergo party discipline. The major reasons for the failure of the re-registration campaign were: First, local officials tried to protect and cover for each other; second, many party members were angry about the military crackdown and considered the campaign as a tool to test their loyalty; third, many members believed that they had been wronged and that CCP betrayed its principles.\n\nNevertheless, though the campaign did not match the CCP’s goal, many members had been purged. In the name of an anticorruption campaign that started in spring 1990, 79,000 party members were expelled in 1990, and by October 1992 the cumulative total had increased to 154,289. Although it is not clear how many party members were expelled solely because of the political purge because the party never publicly revealed the number, it is hard to deny the purge’s connection with the protest.\n\nZhao Ziyang was the General Secretary of CCP in 1989, who was the most powerful political figure during that time. He was one of the first party officials who lost political power during the purge. Zhao and Hu Qili voted against enacting the martial law in response to the protests during the Politburo Central Committee meeting on May 17, 1989. Li Peng and Yao Yilin voted the opposite, and Qiao Shi remained neutral. There was no clear majority in the vote until Deng Xiaoping and Yang Shangkun were suddenly added; they both sided with Li Peng.\n\nAfter this meeting, Zhao Ziyang refused to participate in implementing martial law in any aspect. He was called a counterrevolutionary during an informal meeting in Deng Xiaoping’s house on May 20 because of his support for the protesting students and his anti-party decision attitude. In the same meeting, Deng announced the removal of Zhao from the position of General Secretary.\n\nZhao tried to protest the legitimacy of Deng’s decision by claiming “it cannot be considered legal to have made such a decision when two members of the PSC had not even been notified”. Zhao could not accept the decision from Deng, however, it did not change the result. On June 24, Zhao was officially condemned for supporting the turmoil (动乱) and splitting (分裂) the party. From the party’s perspective, Zhao was deemed responsible for his alleged contribution to the turmoil, and he, as a result, lost all his posts. Moreover, Zhao lost his freedom of mobility ever since. Zhao became the first victim of the political struggle or purge.\n\nHu Qili was a member of the Politburo Central Committee, and he voted against issuing martial law with Zhao Ziyang on May 17. Besides his vote on May 17, Hu also publicly declared the necessity for reform. From May 11 to May 13, Hu invited leaders from the press in Beijing and shared his opinion on the student movement. He emphasized before the press the need to have democratic reforms based on the law. More importantly, he claimed the press had the duty to increase CCP and government transparency. However, on June 24, Hu Qili’s positions in both the Politburo Standing Committee (常委) and the Politburo (委员) were removed.\n\nBao Tong was another casualty of the purge. He was a secretary to the Politburo and Zhao’s right-hand man. Bao was at the centre of the political reforms in the late 1980s and during the student movement in 1989. He was also a critical figure in the Zhao’s government. When Zhao decided to support the student movement and refused to consider the student movement as an unrest, Bao drafted his speeches in meetings. When Zhao lost in the political struggle on May 17, Bao Tong was quickly arrested. Although before his arrest, Bao tried to use citizen’s right and party members’ right and duty to protect himself, he quickly realised that “these things [were] probably not enough to protect [him]”.\n\nOn May 28, 1989, Bao was imprisoned in Qincheng Prison, which holds the country’s most important political criminals, without due process. Bao received his sentence on July 21, 1992. Bao was sentenced to seven years of imprisonment and deprived of political rights for two years. He was charged with leaking government classified information by warning the demonstrators at Tiananmen Square that martial law was about to be imposed. He was also convicted for promoting anti-revolutionary propaganda. As Zhao’s associate, Bao was also removed from his political positions.\n\nYan Mingfu and Rui Xingwen were both secretaries to the Politburo during the student movement. Yan and Rui attended the meeting with the press in Beijing on May 13. Hu Qili was the leading cadre in the meeting, Yan and Rui also expressed positive opinions about the student movement and the necessity of government reform. On May 15, Yan Mingfu affirmed students’ patriotism and their enthusiasm on promoting democracy when he had a conversion with more than 50 student leaders. He and Li Tieying both publicly claimed the student movement was mostly positive. They also stated that the party and government needed to reform in terms of decision-making, democratization, anti-corruption and more social problems. For these activities, the CCP Thirteen through its Central Committee Meeting, removed Yan Mingfu and Rui Xingwen from their posts effective June 24.\n"}
{"id": "39981510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39981510", "title": "Queering Paradigms", "text": "Queering Paradigms\n\nQueering Paradigms (QP) refers to an informal network, a series of conferences and a book series. QP originally started as a colloquium in February 2008 to celebrate LGBT History Month at Canterbury Christ Church University. This colloquium was in part a protest against the university's stance to prevent civil partnership ceremonies from taking place on campus.\nThe conferences have since taken place in Canterbury (UK), Brisbane (Australia), Oneonta (US), Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Quito (Ecuador) and, again in the South of England (Winchester and Canterbury). The book series has five volumes so far.\n\nThe first official Queering Paradigms conference was organised in February 2009 in Canterbury by B Scherer, a professor of comparative religion, gender and sexuality at Canterbury Christ Church University.\nThe book resulting from this conference was published by Peter Lang Oxford in 2010 and was edited by Scherer.\n\nThis conference took place at the Queensland University of Technology and was organised by Sharon Hayes, Matthew Ball and Angela Dwyer. Former High Court Justice Michael Kirby gave a keynote speech, which was widely commented upon in Australian newspapers. \nAlso the second book was published by Peter Lang and was edited by Scherer and Ball.\n\nQP 3 was organised at SUNY, Oneonta, by Kathleen O'Mara and Betty Wambui. \nO'Mara and Liz Morrish edited the book.\n\nQP 4 took place in Rio de Janeiro and was organised by Rodrigo Borba, Elizabeth Lewis, Branca Fabrício and Diana Pinto, who are also the editors of the QP 4 book(s): one book in English was published in 2014 and another volume has been planned as a bilingual book in Portuguese and Spanish.\n\nQP 5 took place in Quito, Ecuador in February 2014. A regional QP colloquium was organised in Quito in October 2012. QP 5 organisers continue to create social impact after the event, e.g. by lobbying for Equal Marriage in Ecuador. The QP 5 book appeared early 2016.\n\nOrganised by QP founder B Scherer, QP 6 has taken place in the south of England in July 2015 and focused on the intersection of disability studies and queer studies. Held both at the University of Winchester and Canterbury Christ Church University, QP 6 part-merged with the VariAbilities II conference. In a final event an Emerging Scholars' day was held at the University of Kent organised by the Centre for Gender, Sexuality and Writing.\n\nQP 7 took place on the Cayman Islands and was organised by local LGBTIQ+ activists under the sponsorship of Canterbury Christ Church University, UK.\n\nKey speakers were the Rt. Rev. Dr. Alan Wilson, Bishop of Buckingham and Professor Emeritus Eugenio Raúl Zaffaroni, justice of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.\n\nBecause the conference attracted some opposition from local politicians there was a police presence; there were however no reported disturbances.\n\nQP 8 was organised by a collective of activists and academics (M. Katharina Wiedlack, Masha Neufeld, Masha Godovannaya, Tania Zabolotnaya and others) in Vienna from 20 September until 23 September 2017 at the University of Vienna.\n\nOrganised by Nicole L Asquith (Western Sydney University), Matthew Ball (Queensland University of Technology), Trudie Broderick (Black Rainbow), Angela Dwyer (University of Tasmania),Justin Ellis (University of Sydney) QP9 took place in Sydney from 11 July to 13 July at the University of Sydney.\n\nKey Speakers were Dameyon Bonson (Black Rainbow, Australia), Professor Jo Phoenix (Open University, UK) and Dr Jace Valcore (University of Houston Downtown, USA)\n\n"}
{"id": "2335285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2335285", "title": "Sacralism", "text": "Sacralism\n\nSacralism is the confluence of church and state wherein one is called upon to change the other.\n\nChristian sacralism is, according to Verduin, the hybrid product that resulted from the colossal change known as the Constantinian shift that began early in the fourth century AD, when Christianity was granted official tolerance in the Roman Empire by the Emperor Constantine, and was completed by the Emperor Theodosius's declaration in 392 outlawing paganism and making Christianity the official religion of the Empire.\n\nA Latin saying that has often been used to describe the principle of sacralism is cuius regio, eius religio, or \"who has region, decides religion.\" The idea was that the ruler of each individual area would decide the religion of those under his control based upon his own faith.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3416613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3416613", "title": "Scotland Against Crooked Lawyers", "text": "Scotland Against Crooked Lawyers\n\nScotland Against Crooked Lawyers (SACL) is a pressure group, it was also registered political party, dedicated to exposing alleged corruption within the Scottish legal profession, Court System, and the Scottish Government. Their stated main aim is to end the system of self-regulation for solicitors in Scotland. Currently conduct complaints against member solicitors are handled by the Law Society of Scotland with other complaints being dealt with by the Scottish Legal Complaints Commission, with independent adjudication provided by the Scottish Legal Services Ombudsman.\n\nScotland Against Crooked Lawyers state that \"Of all the professions that have evolved in our society, none have ever come close to matching the legal profession for downright deceit and dishonesty. The legal profession is immutable, intransigent, self-protective, unaccountable, incompetent and corrupt. For over 500 years this profession has been tyrannising, misleading and oppressing the Scottish people.\" \n\nThe group previously hosted a website where they featured a \"rogues gallery\", posting details of lawyers that the group alleged were corrupt. In 2004 their US-based internet service provider had some pressure applied to them and switched the group's website off.\n\nThe group fielded two candidates at the Scottish Parliament election, 2007. Having only attracted a small number of votes, the group lost their deposit for the two candidates it fielded, then failed in their attempt to bring a small claim against Edinburgh City Council for that amount. In the United Kingdom general election, 2010 the party registered a man, Robert Green , from Warrington as a candidate for Aberdeen South, despite him having bail conditions that prohibited him from entering the city. \nThey were among 462 parties registered at the United Kingdom general election, 2015\n\nMembers of Scotland Against Crooked Lawyers hold regular protests outside the Scottish Parliament buildings at Holyrood, as well as other locations such as the Law Society of Scotland main office in Drumsheugh Gardens, and outside the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service in Chambers Street, all in Edinburgh.\n\nSACL leading members include prominent legal campaigner Stuart Usher, of the Usher Distillery Family. The Usher family were well known for their generosity to Scottish charitable causes, including Usher Hall in Edinburgh.\n\n"}
{"id": "22595878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22595878", "title": "Single peaked preferences", "text": "Single peaked preferences\n\nSingle-peaked preferences are a kind of preference relations. A group of agents is said to have single-peaked-preferences if: \n\nSingle-peaked preferences are typical of one-dimensional domains. A typical example is when several consumers have to decide on the amount of public good to purchase. The amount is a one-dimensional variable. Usually, each consumer decides on a certain quantity which is best for him, and if the actual quantity is more/less than that ideal quantity, the agent is then less satisfied.\n\nWith single-peaked preferences, there is a simple truthful mechanism for selecting an outcome: it is to select the median quantity. See the median voter theorem. It is truthful because the median function satisfies the strong monotonicity property.\n\nTake an ordered set of outcomes: formula_1. An agent has a \"single-peaked\" preference relation over outcomes, formula_2, or \"single-peaked preferences\", if there exists a unique formula_3 such that\n\nformula_4\n\nformula_5\n\nIn words, formula_6 is the ideal point. When the agent compares between two outcomes that are both to the right or to the left of the ideal point, they strictly prefer whichever option is closest to formula_6.\n\nThe following graphs show three preferences that are single-peaked over outcomes {A,B,C,D,E}. On the vertical axis, the number represents the preference ranking of the outcome, with 1 being most preferred. Two outcomes that are equally preferred have the same ranking.\n\nThe following graph gives two examples of preferences that are not single-peaked. The blue preferences are clearly not single-peaked because the preference ranking spikes down for \"D\" and then spikes up for \"E\". The green preferences are not single-peaked because they have two outcomes that are the most preferred: \"B\" and \"C\". Such preferences are sometimes called single-plateaued.\n\nSingle-peaked preferences have a number of interpretations for different applications.\n\nA simple application of ideological preferences is to think of the outcome space formula_8 as locations on a street and each formula_9 as the address of an individual. Suppose a single bus stop has to be located on the street and every individual wishes to walk as little as possible to the stop. Individuals then have single-peaked preferences: individual formula_10's ideal point is formula_9 and she dislikes other locations the farther they are to the west or the farther they are to the east.\n\nThe outcome space can also be thought as different policies in an ideological spectrum: policies from the Left vs policies from the Right; policies that are more liberal vs policies that are more conservative; policies that are pro free markets vs policies that are pro state intervention. Voters have single-peaked preferences if they have an ideal balance between the two directions of the ideological spectrum and if they dislike policies the farther away they are from their ideal point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6204187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6204187", "title": "Sunlight Foundation", "text": "Sunlight Foundation\n\nThe Sunlight Foundation is an American 501(c)(3) nonpartisan, nonprofit organization that advocates for open government. The organization was founded in April 2006 with the goal of increasing transparency and accountability in the United States Congress, the executive branch, and in state and local governments. The foundation's primary focus is the role of money in politics. The organization seeks to increase campaign finance regulations and disclosure requirements. \n\nThe Sunlight Foundation was founded by Ellen S. Miller and Michael R. Klein because of their concern about the influence of money in politics. The Foundation was launched in April 2006 with a $3.5 million contribution from co-founder Klein, a securities lawyer who started the firm CoStar Group Inc. in the 1980s. \n\nAt its founding, Sunlight's board was constituted of Klein, serving as chairman, Miller serving as secretary and treasurer, and Nicholas J. Klein, Klein's son. \nSunlight's original advisory board was constituted of Esther Dyson, Craig Newmark and Kim Malone. Jimmy Wales, Yochai Benkler, Charles Lewis, Lawrence Lessig, Kim Scott, and Mitch Kapor later joined as advisors, with Newmark and Dyson moving to the board.\n\nMiller was the Sunlight Foundation's executive director from 2006 until her retirement in 2014. The first national director of the organization was law professor Zephyr Teachout.\n\nIn September 2014, Christopher T. Gates was selected as the organization's new president, after the board conducted a search. Gates was formerly the chairman of the Colorado Democratic Party and executive director of Philanthropy for Active Civic Engagement and the National Civic League. \n\nIn 2010, Matt Halprin of the Omidyar Network joined the board.\nIn 2011, lawyer Andrew McLaughlin joined the board. In 2013, Stacey Donahue of the Omidyar Network joined, replacing Halprin. \nIn 2014, Sunlight announced that Sue Gardner, Allison Fine, Mark Horvit and Daniel X. O’Neil would join its board of directors. . Donahue subsequently left.\n\nIn January 2015, the Sunlight Foundation restructured, combining its reporting staff with its communications team. As a result of the restructuring, three staffers left the organization, including managing editor Kathy Kiely, who was laid off. In June 2015, four more staffers left the organization. Niko Klein and Gardner left the board.\n\nIn January 2016, Klein announced on Sunlight's blog that the organization was looking for a new chief executive, with Gates leaving the organization and John Wonderlich serving as the interim executive director.\n\nIn September 2016, Klein announced on Sunlight's blog that Sunlight Labs would be shutting down and the board was exploring potential mergers.O'Neil subsequently left the board. \n\nKlein announced on Sunlight's blog on December 16 that the organization would remain independent, with Wonderlich becoming the permanent executive director and Alexander B. Howard promoted to be the deputy director.. Fine, Horvit, McLaughlin, and Dyson all left the board. \n\nIn March 2018, Katherine Maher and Zoe Reiter joined Klein, Newmark and Wonderlich on the board.\n\nIn May 2018, the Huffington Post reported that Clay Johnson, former director of Sunlight Labs, had been accused of sexual misconduct and mistreatment by multiple women during his employment at Sunlight and left after a staff insurrection. . Subsequently, Sunlight's board announced that it would conduct a review of the organization's history. \n\nIn July 2009, the Sunlight Foundation received the Public Access to Government Information Award from the American Association of Law Libraries.\n\nIn July 2010, the Sunlight Foundation won the grand prize of the Knight-Batten Awards for Innovations in Journalism for their Sunlight Live project that incorporates streaming video, liveblogging, social networking, and data presentation.\n\nThe Sunlight Foundation's donors include the Open Society Foundations, The Pew Charitable Trusts, the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Ford Foundation, the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation, the Omidyar Network, Bloomberg Philanthropies, and the Laura and John Arnold Foundation.\n\nThe Sunlight Foundation advocates for more regulation and limitations regarding campaign finance. The organization opposed the ruling in \"Citizens United v. FEC\", calling it \"disastrous.\" The organization supported the DISCLOSE Act, a congressional bill that would have enacted stricter campaign finance regulations by requiring increased disclosure of political spending in federal elections. The Sunlight Foundation believes that Congress should mandate real-time online disclosure of political contributions. It opposes dark money, a term used to describe funds given to nonprofit organizations that are not required to disclose their donors.\n\nThe Sunlight Foundation's initiatives have included Sunlight Labs, which is an open source community that collects and organizes public data; Influence Explorer, which is an online tool for tracking money in politics; and Foreign Influence Explorer, which tracks lobbyists who represent foreign clients in Washington D.C.\n\nIn 2006, the Sunlight Foundation provided funding to the Center for Responsive Politics to improve its campaign finance and lobbying listings and to the Center for Media and Democracy to oversee a joint project called Congresspedia. In June 2006, the Sunlight Foundation reported on Republican House Speaker Dennis Hastert's real estate investments, accusing Hastert of not divulging connections between a $207 million earmark he won for a highway and an investment he and his wife made in nearby land.\n\nIn January 2007, the Sunlight Foundation launched the Open House Project, a working group designed to make congressional procedures more transparent. In February 2007, the Participatory Politics Foundation and the Sunlight Foundation launched OpenCongress.org, a site to track the full text of legislation and build a community to better follow congressional activities. Originally run by the Participatory Politics Foundation with funding from the Sunlight Foundation, in 2013 the Sunlight Foundation overtook operations of OpenCongress.org.. In 2016, Sunlight retired OpenCongress and directed its community to GovTrack.us. h\n\nIn October 2007, the Sunlight Foundation joined Taxpayers for Common Sense to launch EarmarkWatch.org, a project that asked citizens to research over 3,000 earmarks and identify the sponsors and recipients. In 2008, the Sunlight Foundation launched a project called Public Markup. The project crowdsourced ideas for model transparency legislation.\n\nScout was a tool to create customized keyword alerts that notify users whenever the subscribed issue or bill is talked about in Congress, mentioned in the Federal Register or comes up in state legislation. During beta testing Scout helped a coalition of transparency advocates oppose and remove a FOIA exemption for a bill.\n\nCall on Congress was a toll free phone number individuals can call to learn about what Congress is doing. The project hopes to bridge the digital divide by letting callers find out how their representatives are voting on bills and raising campaign money or connect directly to the lawmakers’ Capitol Hill offices and get details on where to vote on Election Day.\n\nPolitiwoops was a Sunlight Foundation project which published an archive of thousands of deleted tweets by U.S. politicians. The project prompted Rep. Jeff Miller to delete his Twitter account after his tweet questioning President Barack Obama's citizenship was made public. Other incidents covered by Politwoops include a number of Republican politicians reacting to incorrect news of the ruling in the Supreme Court's case about health care reform, violations of the social media policies of the House of Representatives' Congressional Handbook by tweeting campaign information and six politicians who deleted tweets praising and welcoming home Taliban prisoner Sgt. Bowe Bergdahl after questions arose over the prisoner swap that freed him. \"Time\" selected Politwoops as one of their 50 Best Websites of 2012, calling it \"strangely fascinating.\"\n\nPolitiwoops went on hiatus in May 2015 when Twitter, citing concerns over user privacy, revoked the Sunlight Foundation's permission to use its application program interface; however, in November 2015, Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey conceded that this had been a mistake, and Politwoops resumed international activity in January 2016 and American activity in February 2016.. ProPublica now operates the U.S. version of the website.\n\nIn April 2012, the Sunlight Foundation released Upwardly Mobile, a web application to research where in the United States individuals could enjoy financial security and an improved quality of life. The relocation search tool is mostly powered by publicly available federal economic data that includes employment, salaries, average rents, and local medical and transportation costs.\n\nThe online Churnalism tool was launched in 2013 in collaboration with the Media Standards Trust as an open-source plagiarism detection engine. The tool allows users to compare two sources of text to analyze similarities.\n\nIn 2012, the Sunlight Foundation launched a mobile application called \"Ad Hawk\" to identify political ads. Similar to many song identification services, Ad Hawk makes an acoustic fingerprint based on audio recorded while a television or radio ad plays and compares it against a central database for a match. Ad Hawk will return information from a variety of sources about the candidate, organization and issues ads if a match is found.\n\nIn 2009, the Sunlight Foundation held the first annual TransparencyCamp, a conference where open government advocates met to discuss problems and solutions with government data.\n\nIn March 2010, the Sunlight Foundation announced the Design for America contest to encourage visualizations to make complex government information more understandable to citizens.\n\nIn August 2012, the Sunlight Foundation launched Sunlight Academy, an interactive training portal to help journalists, staffers, and citizens use transparency tools to research issues more effectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38779031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38779031", "title": "Séléka", "text": "Séléka\n\nSéléka CPSK-CPJP-UFDR is an alliance of rebel militia groups that subjugated the Central African Republic (CAR) on March 24, 2013. After its official dissolution in September 2013, the remaining rebel groups became known as Ex-Seleka. Séléka leader Michel Djotodia became the nation's president from March 2013 until his resignation in January 2014. Members of Séléka are almost entirely Muslim.\n\nThe word \"Seleka\" means \"Coalition\" in Sango, one of the CAR's two national languages, the other being French. The international media has shortened the full name Séléka CPSK-CPJP-UFDR to \"la Séléka\" in French or often \"Seleka\" in English.\n\nThe term \"Séléka\" had been used previously in CAR politics when Jean-Jacques Démafouth launched the political party New Alliance for Progress () with the Sango name \"Fini Seleka\".\n\nThe rebel coalition originated in an agreement signed between factions of the Convention of Patriots for Justice and Peace (CPJP) and the Patriotic Convention for Saving the Country (CPSK), two of the CAR's many anti-government militias on August 20, 2012. CPJP in this case refers to the \"Fundamental\" splinter group of the CPJP, one of many militias involved in the CAR's long-running civil war. A different faction of the CPJP signed a peace accord with the government on August 25, 2012.\n\nThe Seleka first emerged on September 15, 2012 under the name \"alliance CPSK-CPJP,\" when it published a press release taking responsibility for the attacks on three towns that day. It was the last of the major rebel groups to do so. The CPSK was hardly known. On December 15, 2012 the group published its first press release using the full name \"Séléka CPSK-CPJP-UFDR\" thus including the Union of Democratic Forces for Unity (UFDR). Two groups that did not appear in the title, the long-standing militia Democratic Front of the Central African People (FDPC), and the newly minted Alliance for Revival and Rebuilding (A2R), were also reportedly part of the alliance.\n\nThe Seleka weren't an overtly religious movement, but they were mostly Muslim, as was Michel Djotodia, the president they installed in March 2013 after taking power.\n\nThe fighters that ushered in Djotodia ran wild across the country during his time in office, plundering villages and killing Christians as well as supporters of the former president Francois Bozize.\n\nIn September 2013 Michel Djotodia announced that Seleka had been dissolved. The disbanded group has dispersed into the countryside and have been committing mass atrocities according to Human Rights Watch. Executions, rape and looting by ex-Seleka fighters after the coup and disbanding have fomented religious tension where the population is 80% Christian. Christian militias, using the name anti-balaka, have been formed to fight the Muslim Seleka. The United Nations is considering sending troops to stop the atrocities. On November 26, France indicated that it would boost its presence an additional 1,000 soldiers in the Central African Republic to augment its existent 400 troops if it receives U.N. backing.\n\nBy 2015, there was virtually no government control outside of the capital, Bangui. Armed entrepreneurs have carved out personal fiefdoms in which they set up checkpoints, collect illegal taxes, and take in millions of dollars from the illicit coffee, mineral, and timber trades.\n\nMonths after the official dissolution of Seleka it was not known who in charge of Ex-Seleka factions during talks with Antibalaka until on 12 July 2014, Michel Djotodia was reinstated as the head of a faction of Séléka, which renamed itself The Popular Front for the Rebirth of Central African Republic (FPRC), also translated as \"The Popular Front for the Renaissance of Central African Republic\". Later in 2014, Noureddine Adam led the FPRC and began demanding independence for the predominantly Muslim north, a move rejected by another general, Ali Darassa. He formed another Ex-Seleka faction called the Union for Peace in the Central African Republic (UPC) which is dominant in and around Bambari while the FPRC's capital is in Bria. Noureddine Adam declared the autonomous Republic of Logone on 14 December 2015; a spokesman for the Central African Republic's transitional government denounced the rebel's declaration. Another group is the Central African Patriotic Movement (MPC) founded by Mahamat Al Khatim. Much of the violence in this phase of the conflict is between Ex-Seleka militias and is often ethnic in nature with the FPRC targeting Fulani people who largely make up the UPC and the UPC targeting the Gula and Runga people, who largely make up FPRC, as being sympathetic to FPRC. Starting in November 2016, FPRC and MPC allied with their former enemy, the Anti-balaka, and attacked UPC. Most of the fighting is in the centrally located Ouaka prefecture, which has the country's second largest city Bambari, because of its strategic location between the Muslim and Christian regions of the country and its wealth. The fighting displaced 20,000 with the FPRC singling out Fulani people. In February 2017, Joseph Zoundeiko, the chief of staff of FPRC who previously led the military wing of Seleka, was killed by MINUSCA after crossing one of the red lines.\n\nOn September 18, 2013, the Seleka killed scores of unarmed civilians, according to Human Rights Watch. The Seleka has also engaged in wanton destruction of numerous homes and villages. The 79-page report, The Forgotten Human Rights Crisis in the Central African Republic,\" details the deliberate killing of civilians – including women, children, and the elderly – between March and June 2013 and confirms the deliberate destruction of more than 1,000 homes, both in the capital, Bangui, and in the provinces. Many villagers have fled their homes and are living in the bush in fear of new attacks. Human Rights Watch documented the deaths of scores of people from injuries, hunger or sickness.\n\n\"Seleka leaders promised a new beginning for the people of the Central African Republic, but instead have carried out large-scale attacks on civilians, looting, and murder,\" said Daniel Bekele, Africa director at Human Rights Watch. \"What's worse is that the Seleka have recruited children as young as 13 to carry out some of this carnage.\"\n\nOn May 28, 2014, the Seleka members threw grenades before shooting indiscriminately at the Church of Fatima in the capital Bangui, killing at least 11 people. In July 2014, the government of Uganda declared that it was at war with Seleka accusing them of forcing civilians to give food and medicine to the Lords Resistance Army and of trading ivory and minerals with them. Seleka denied the accusation.\n\nSeleka leader Abdoulaye Issene said in an interview that: \"We have killed, murdered and violated, but what happenend, happened\".\n\nOn November 9, 2015, armed men cut the throats of 10 people in the village of Ndassima before carrying out an overnight attack nearby in Mala. Local administrator Yves Mbetigaza said \"They came from two places, some from Bambari and others from Mbres.\" While a report on national radio described the attackers only as armed members of the Fula ethnic group (in ), Mbetigaza said they were Seleka fighters, adding that eight villagers were kidnapped in Mala and dozens of others were missing. On November 12, six hunters were killed in the village of Bandambou.\n\nOn December 3, 2015, the Seleka armed men killed eight civilians at a camp for displaced people and wounded one U.N. peacekeeper, just days after the pope visited the capital. The attacks took place at Ngakobo, about 60 km (40 miles) south of the central town of Bambari.\n\nSeleka often contends that mercenaries are to blame for the abuses. It is reported that official Seleka fighters are called for help to protect against mobs of ex-Seleka fighter.\n\n"}
{"id": "53927013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53927013", "title": "The Disastrous Life of Saiki K. (film)", "text": "The Disastrous Life of Saiki K. (film)\n\nIt was the first Sony Pictures Japanese film that was not distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing and was also the first Sony Pictures Japanese film to be distributed by Columbia Pictures.\n\nKusuo Saiki (Kento Yamazaki) is a 16-year-old high school student. He was born with lots of powers, including telepathy and telekinesis. This may sound cool, but, according to Kusuo's experience, super powers are not as good as we imagine. He tries to live a normal life, despite having a power that upsets him. Kusuo Saiki now tries to keep a distance from others to hide his psychic abilities, but his classmates with distinct individuality gather under Kusuo.\n\n\nThis film grossed at the Japanese box office.\n\nRachel Cheung of \"South China Morning Post\" found the film to be overacted: \"It may be funny for the first time, and maybe the second, that the sweet 19-year-old actress Hashimoto imitates the exaggerated facial expressions of her anime character; but when it happens for the 10th time, it becomes quite boring, if not irritating.\"\n"}
{"id": "796076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796076", "title": "Tucker Carlson", "text": "Tucker Carlson\n\nTucker Swanson McNear Carlson (born May 16, 1969) is an American conservative political commentator, reporter, author, and columnist who has hosted the nightly political talk show \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" on Fox News since 2016. Carlson became a print journalist in the 1990s, writing for the magazine \"The Weekly Standard\" and others. He was a commentator on CNN from 2000 to 2005; while there, he served as co-host of \"Crossfire\". Carlson then hosted the nightly program \"Tucker\" on MSNBC from 2005 to 2008. He has been a political analyst for Fox News since 2009. In 2010, Carlson co-founded and served as the initial editor-in-chief of the conservative news and opinion website \"The Daily Caller\".\n\nCarlson has written two books: the memoir \"Politicians, Partisans and Parasites: My Adventures in Cable News\" (2003) and \"Ship of Fools: How a Selfish Ruling Class is Bringing America to the Brink of Revolution\" (2018).\n\nCarlson was born in San Francisco, California and grew up on Laurel Terrace Drive in Studio City. He is the elder son of Richard Warner Carlson, a former Los Angeles news anchor and U.S. ambassador to the Seychelles who was also president of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and director of Voice of America. Carlson’s father had been born Richard Boynton and was adopted by the Carlsons at age three. Carlson's mother is Lisa McNear Lombardi; she left the family when Carlson was 6 years old, wanting to pursue a bohemian lifestyle. She eventually moved to France and had little contact with any of the family after that. Carlson has a younger brother, Buckley Swanson Peck Carlson.\n\nIn 1979, when Tucker was 10 years old, his father married Patricia Caroline Swanson. An heiress to the Swanson frozen-food fortune, Swanson is the daughter of Gilbert Carl Swanson, the granddaughter of Carl A. Swanson, and the niece of Senator J. William Fulbright.\n\nTucker and his younger brother grew up in La Jolla, California. While living in La Jolla, Tucker briefly attended La Jolla Country Day School. He then attended high school at St. George's School, a boarding school in Middletown, Rhode Island. After graduating high school, he studied at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut, where he graduated in 1992 with a B.A. in history.\n\nCarlson began his journalism career as a fact-checker for \"Policy Review\", a national conservative journal then published by The Heritage Foundation and since acquired by the Hoover Institution. He later worked as a reporter at the \"Arkansas Democrat-Gazette\" newspaper in Little Rock, Arkansas, before joining \"The Weekly Standard\" in 1995.\n\nAs a magazine and newspaper journalist, Carlson has reported from around the world. He has been a columnist for \"New York\" and \"Reader's Digest\". He has also written for \"Esquire\", \"The Weekly Standard\", \"The New Republic\", \"The New York Times Magazine\", and \"The Daily Beast\".\n\nIn 2000, Carlson co-hosted the short-lived show \"The Spin Room\".\n\nIn 2001, Carlson was appointed co-host of \"Crossfire.\" On the show, Carlson and Robert Novak represented the political right (alternating on different nights), while James Carville and Paul Begala, also alternating as hosts, represented the left. During the same period, he also hosted a weekly public affairs program on PBS, \"Tucker Carlson: Unfiltered\".\n\nOne of Carlson's most memorable appearances on \"Crossfire\" was his heated October 2004 exchange with Jon Stewart, host of \"The Daily Show\" on Comedy Central. Stewart argued that Carlson and the nature of his show were harmful to political discourse in the United States. Carlson later recalled that Stewart had stayed at CNN for hours after the show to discuss the issues he had raised on the air. \"It was heartfelt,\" Carlson said, \"He [Stewart] needed to do this.\"\n\nIn January 2005, CNN announced they were ending their relationship with Carlson and would soon cancel \"Crossfire\". CNN chief Jonathan Klein told Carlson on January 4, 2005, that the network had decided not to renew his contract. Carlson has said that he had already resigned from CNN and \"Crossfire\" long before Stewart was booked as a guest, telling host Patricia Duff: \"I resigned from \"Crossfire\" in April [2004], many months before Jon Stewart came on our show, because I didn't like the partisanship, and I thought in some ways it was kind of a pointless conversation ... each side coming out, you know, 'Here's my argument', and no one listening to anyone else. [CNN] was a frustrating place to work.\"\n\nCarlson's early evening show, \"Tucker\" (originally titled \"The Situation With Tucker Carlson\") premiered on June 13, 2005, on MSNBC.\n\nCarlson also hosted a late afternoon weekday wrap-up for MSNBC during the 2006 Winter Olympics, during which he attempted to learn how to play various Olympic sports. In July 2006, he reported live for \"Tucker\" from Haifa, Israel, during the 2006 Lebanon War between Israel and Hezbollah in southern Lebanon. While in the Middle East, he also hosted \"MSNBC Special Report: Mideast Crisis\". He appeared regularly on \"Verdict with Dan Abrams\" as a panelist in political discussions.\n\n\"Tucker\" lasted fewer than three full seasons. The network announced its cancellation due to low ratings on March 10, 2008, and the final episode aired on March 14, 2008. Brian Stelter of \"The New York Times\" wrote that \"during Mr. Carlson's tenure, MSNBC's evening programming moved gradually to the left. His former time slots, 6 and 9 p.m., were then occupied by two liberals, Ed Schultz and Rachel Maddow.\" Carlson stated that the network had changed a lot and \"they didn't have a role for me.\"\n\nIn May 2009, Fox News announced that Carlson was being hired as a Fox News contributor. He was a frequent guest panelist on Fox's late-night satire show \"Red Eye w/Greg Gutfeld,\" made frequent appearances on the All-Star Panel segment of \"Special Report with Bret Baier\", was a substitute host of \"Hannity\" in Sean Hannity's absence, and produced a Fox News special entitled \"Fighting for Our Children's Minds\".\n\nIn March 2013, it was announced that Carlson would co-host the weekend editions of \"Fox & Friends;\" he had been a contributor and frequent guest host on the program. He replaced Dave Briggs, who left the news channel to join the NBC Sports Network in January 2013. Beginning in April, Carlson officially joined co-hosts Alisyn Camerota and Clayton Morris on Saturday and Sunday mornings.\n\nOn November 14, 2016, Carlson started hosting \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" on Fox News. \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was created to replace the show \"On the Record\". The show debuted as \"the network's most watched telecast of the year in the time slot\". The program's premiere episode, viewed by 3.7 million, was rated higher than previous editions of \"On the Record\".\n\n\"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" aired at 7 p.m. ET each weeknight until January 9, 2017, when Carlson's show replaced Megyn Kelly at the 9 p.m. ET time slot after she left Fox News. In January 2017, \"Forbes\" reported that the show had \"scored consistently high ratings, averaging 2.8 million viewers per night and ranking as the number two cable news program behind The O'Reilly Factor in December [2016]. In March 2017, \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was the most watched cable program in the 9 p.m. time slot.\n\nOn April 19, 2017, it was announced that \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" would air at 8:00 p.m. following the cancellation of \"The O'Reilly Factor\". \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was the third-highest-rated cable news show as of March 2018.\n\nAccording to CNN, Business Insider, Vox and GQ, Carlson's show has promoted and echoed white supremacist discourse. Neoconservative pundit Bill Kristol described the views Carlson expressed on his show as \"ethno-nationalism of some kind\"; Carlson responded that Kristol had \"discredited himself years ago.\" Carlson has denied being a racist and has said that he hates racism.\n\nIn October 2018, \"Tucker Carlson Tonight\" was the second-highest rated news show in prime time, after Hannity, with 3.2 million nightly viewers.\n\nOn January 11, 2010, Carlson and former vice president Dick Cheney aide Neil Patel launched a political news website titled \"The Daily Caller\". Carlson served as editor-in-chief, and occasionally wrote opinion pieces with Patel. The website was funded by the conservative activist Foster Freiss. By February \"The Daily Caller\" was part of the White House rotating press pool.\n\nIn an interview with \"Politico\", Carlson said that \"The Daily Caller\" would not be tied to ideology but rather will be \"breaking stories of importance\". In a \"Washington Post\" article, Carlson added, \"We're not enforcing any kind of ideological orthodoxy on anyone.\" Columnist Mickey Kaus quit after Carlson refused to run a column critical of Fox News's coverage of the immigration policy debate due to his contractual obligations to Fox News.\n\nCarlson was a contestant on season 3 of the reality show \"Dancing with the Stars\", which aired in 2006; he was paired with professional dancer Elena Grinenko. Carlson took four-hour-a-day ballroom dance classes in preparation for the competition. In an interview a month before the show began, he lamented that he would miss classes during a two-week-long MSNBC assignment in Lebanon, noting that \"It's hard for me to remember the moves.\" Carlson said he accepted ABC's invitation to perform because \"I don't do things that I'm not good at very often. I'm psyched to get to do that.\" Carlson was the first contestant eliminated, on September 13, 2006.\n\nAlthough in favor of conservative economic policies, Carlson is critical of pure libertarian free market ideals, saying that economic and technological change that occurs too quickly can cause widespread social and political upheaval. He has stated that one model to follow is that of President Theodore Roosevelt, whose interventionist role in the economy in the early 1900s may have, in Carlson's view, prevented a Communist revolution in the United States.\n\nCarlson is considered a conservative , though he has been associated with Libertarian politics in the past.\n\nCarlson criticized 2008 presidential candidate John McCain for being insufficiently ideological. Speaking to Salon.com, Carlson stated:\n\nI liked McCain. And I would have voted for McCain for president happily, not because I agree with his politics; I never took McCain's politics seriously enough even to have strong feelings about them. I don't think McCain has very strong politics. He's interested in ideas almost as little as George W. Bush is. McCain isn't intellectual, and doesn't have a strong ideology at all. He's wound up sort of as a liberal Republican because he's mad at other Republicans, not because he's a liberal.\n\nCarlson has stated that former U.S. president George W. Bush is not a true conservative. In an August 27, 2004, \"Washington Post\" interview, Carlson expressed his \"displeasure with Bush\". Carlson did not vote in the 2004 election, citing his disgust with the Iraq War and his disillusionment with the once small-government Republican Party. He would go on to say:\n\nI don't know what you consider conservative, but I'm not much of a liberal, at least as the word is currently defined. For instance, I'm utterly opposed to abortion, which I think is horrible and cruel. I think affirmative action is wrong. I'd like to slow immigration pretty dramatically. I hate all nanny state regulations, such as seat belt laws and smoking bans. I'm not for big government. I think the U.S. ought to hesitate before intervening abroad. I think these are conservative impulses. So by my criteria, Bush isn't much of a conservative.\n\nCarlson said in an interview with \"The Washington Post\" that he thinks \"that the U.S. ought to hesitate before intervening abroad.\" Carlson is skeptical of foreign intervention.\n\nCarlson initially supported the U.S. war with Iraq during its first year. After a year, however, he began criticizing the war, telling the \"New York Observer, \"\"I think it's a total nightmare and disaster, and I'm ashamed that I went against my own instincts in supporting it. It's something I'll never do again. Never. I got convinced by a friend of mine who's smarter than I am, and I shouldn't have done that. No. I want things to work out, but I'm enraged by it, actually.\"\n\nIn a July 2018 interview about Russian involvement in U.S. elections, Carlson said that Mexico has interfered in U.S. elections \"more successfully\" than Russia by \"packing our electorate\" through mass immigration. This assertion was disputed by journalist Philip Bump, who wrote that the number of Mexicans in the U.S. had decreased since 2009 and asked rhetorically, \"What good has it done Mexico to have a number of its citizens move to the United States and gain the right to vote?\"\n\nCarlson has said he does not consider Russia a serious threat. Carlson has called for the United States to work with Russia in the Syrian Civil War. He opposes overthrowing Bashar al-Assad. Peter Beinart of \"the Atlantic\" said that Carlson has been an \"apologist for Donald Trump on the Russia scandal\". Carlson described the controversy in the wake of revelations that Donald Trump Jr. was willing to accept anti-Clinton information from a Russian government official as a \"new level of hysteria\" and said that Trump Jr. had only been \"gossiping with foreigners.\"\n\nIn April 2018, Carlson questioned whether Syrian president Bashar al-Assad was responsible for a chemical attack that occurred the same month and killed dozens. Carlson suggested, alluding to various conspiracy theories, that a similar attack that occurred the year before (the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack), which was widely attributed to Assad's forces, was a false flag attack perpetrated to falsely implicate the Assad government.\n\nCarlson has been accused by Erik Wemple of \"The Washington Post\" and by writers for Vox.com of demonizing immigrants, both those who immigrated to the U.S. legally and illegally. He has opposed demographic changes in the United States, writing that the demographic change seen in Hazleton, Pa., which saw Hispanics go from a small minority to a majority over a 15-year period is \"more change than human beings are designed to digest.\" Salon.com has described Carlson's views on changing racial demographics in the U.S. as advocating the white genocide conspiracy theory, opining that Carlson is obsessed with the concept. The Anti-Defamation League's Jessica Reaves has analyzed his use of \"white genocide\" rhetoric in a 2018 monologue.\n\nWhen Mitt Romney condemned then-candidate Donald Trump for his refusal to condemn the Ku Klux Klan, saying it was a \"disqualifying and disgusting response... His coddling of repugnant bigotry is not in the character of America,\" Carlson criticized Romney. Carlson said, \"Obama could have written\" that.\n\nIn September 2018, Carlson said that sexual assault allegations against Supreme Court justice nominee Brett Kavanaugh demonstrated \"the left's war on old white men\", and suggested that there could be a race war in the United States.\n\nIn August 2018, Carlson ran a segment where he alleged that the South African government was targeting white farmers due to anti-white racism. In the segment, Carlson criticized \"elites\" who were purportedly concerned about racism \"paying no attention\" to the \"racist government of South Africa.\" Carlson said that \"South African President Cyril Ramaphosa had 'changed the country's constitution to make it possible to steal land from people because they are the wrong skin color.' He also said that the government had begun seizing land from people without compensation.\" \"CBS News, The Associated Press\", \"The\" \"New York Times\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\" described Carlson's segment as false or misleading. According to \"The New York Times\", \"Mr. Ramaphosa announced on Aug. 1 that the governing African National Congress (A.N.C.) would move ahead with a proposal to change the country's Constitution and allow the expropriation of some land without compensation... Mr. Ramaphosa has said that speeding up [land reform] will bolster economic growth and agricultural production. More fundamentally, the government has argued, returning land to black South Africans would make the country [more] just.\"\n\nFollowing the Carlson segment, U.S. President Donald Trump instructed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to \"closely study the South Africa land and farm seizure and large scale killing of farmers.\" Trump's tweet was denounced as \"'misinformed'\" by the South African government, which stated that it would address the matter through diplomatic channels. There are no reliable figures that suggest that farmers are at greater risk of being killed than the average South African. Some South African blacks have sought to retake land to which they have made claims, but South African police have stopped such \"ad hoc\" attempts at appropriating land. The South African right-wing group AfriForum took credit for Carlson and Trump's statements, saying it believed that its campaign to influence American politics had succeeded.\n\nOn August 23, 2018, Carlson corrected certain statements about South Africa that he had made the previous evening, but did not admit having made errors. He said that the proposed constitutional amendment was still being debated in South Africa and added that no farms had yet been expropriated. Carlson later stated in an interview that he \"doesn't believe anyone should be rewarded or punished based upon characteristics they can't control\" and added that his South Africa segment made \"'an argument against tribalism'\".\n\nCarlson voted for Ron Paul in 1988 when he was running as the Libertarian Party presidential candidate. On November 26, 2007, it was reported that Carlson lobbied Nevada brothel owner Dennis Hof to support Paul's candidacy. Carlson said, \"Dennis Hof is a good friend of mine, so when we got to Nevada, I decided to call him up and see if he wanted to come check this guy out.\"\n\nOn February 23, 2009, Carlson joined the libertarian think tank the Cato Institute as a senior fellow; he is no longer affiliated with the organization.\n\nCarlson was known for wearing bow ties both on- and off-air until 2006. In 2005 on the season-five episode of \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"The Bowtie\", a character refers to Larry David as \"Tucker Carlson\" for wearing one. On April 11, 2006, Carlson announced on his MSNBC show that he would no longer be wearing either a bow tie or a regular tie, adding, \"I just decided I wanted to give my neck a break. A little change is good once in a while, and I feel better already.\" He now wears long neckties on the air, and on the February 28, 2014, edition of \"The Alex Jones Show\", while talking about his reasons for returning to wearing a long necktie, Carlson said that \"if you wear a bow tie, it's like [wearing] a middle finger around your neck; you're just inviting scorn and ridicule ... the number of people screaming the F-word at me ... it wore me down after a while so I gave in and became conventional.\"\n\nCarlson endorsed controversial comments made by his brother, Buckley, about a spokeswoman for New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio. The spokesperson had asked for corrections to a story, and Buckley called her a \"whiny little self-righteous bitch\" and made sexually derogatory remarks. Tucker wrote that Buckley \"meant it in the nicest way.\" Former speaker of the New York City Council Christine Quinn called on both Carlsons to apologize for the \"offensive\" and \"sexist\" comments.\n\nOn the night of November 8, 2018, a group of Antifa activists gathered in the street outside Carlson's home in Washington, D.C. for about ten minutes, chanting, \"we know where you sleep at night!\" Carlson's driveway was also vandalized with a spray-painted anarchist symbol. Carlson, who was not home at the time, asserted that \"someone started throwing himself against the front door and actually cracked the front door\", although a police report did not note any visible damage to the door; his wife, who was home, called 911. Police opened an investigation into the incident.\n\nCarlson is married to Susan Carlson (née Andrews). Together, they have three daughters and one son. Carlson is an Episcopalian and \"loves the liturgy, though he abhors the liberals who run the denomination\". Carlson quit drinking alcohol in 2002, \"having decided that neither the pleasant nights nor the unpleasant mornings were improving his life\". Years earlier, he had quit smoking and replaced cigarettes with nicotine gum, which he buys in bulk from New Zealand and \"chews constantly\".\n\nIn 2003, Carlson authored the memoir \"Politicians, Partisans and Parasites: My Adventures in Cable News\", about his television news experiences; the publisher was Warner Books. One of the book's revelations was Carlson's description of being falsely accused of rape by a woman he did not know who suffered from severe mental illness and displayed stalker-like behavior. Carlson wrote in the book that the incident was emotionally traumatic.\n\nIn May 2017, Carlson, represented by the literary and creative agency Javelin, signed an eight-figure, two-book deal with Simon & Schuster's Threshold Editions. His first book in the series, \"Ship of Fools: How a Selfish Ruling Class is Bringing America to the Brink of Revolution\", was released in October 2018. It debuted at #1 on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26638617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26638617", "title": "Values Voter Summit", "text": "Values Voter Summit\n\nThe Values Voter Summit is an annual political conference held in Washington, D.C. for American social conservative activists and elected officials from across the United States.\n\nThe Values Voter Summit is hosted by the Family Research Council. There are numerous conservative organizations sponsoring or otherwise participating in the conference. In the most recent summit, 38 organizations and an audience of 2,000 people participated. The summit is usually held in September or October of each year.\n\nThe first summit was held in 2006. Among the key issues for values voters defined by the organizers are opposition to abortion and to same-sex marriage, and a strong national defense. The \"Los Angeles Times\" describes the conference as combination rally, revival meeting, political convention and bazaar.\" The conference typically includes appearances from Republican potential presidential candidates vying for the support of the crucial social conservative base of the party.\n\nFeatured guests at the summit have included right-wing commentators Sean Hannity, Bill O'Reilly, Ann Coulter, in addition to numerous elected officials and other conservative figures. Co-sponsors of the event included other Christian political action groups, such as AFA Action (part of the American Family Association), the Heritage Foundation, Liberty University, Liberty Counsel and Gary Bauer's organization American Values.\n\nStarting with the second annual conference in 2007, the summit began holding its own presidential straw poll, similarly to the Conservative Political Action Conference (CPAC) and other conferences. The winner of the first presidential straw poll, of about 5,776 votes, was former Massachusetts governor Mitt Romney, who would later go on to be the runner-up of the 2008 primaries before winning the nomination in 2012.\n\nAfter a \"civil war\" over the inclusion of the gay Republican group GOProud led many conservative organizations and activists to boycott the 2011 CPAC, \"Politico\" reported that a group of conservative figures were beginning to organize to turn the Values Voter Summit into \"a full-fledged rival to CPAC\" by expanding its focus to include economic and national security issues. Several of the organizations that have been boycotting the CPAC are now sponsors or participants in the Values Voter Summit.\n\nThe 2011 conference was held on October 7–8, 2011. All of the major 2012 Republican presidential candidates spoke except Jon Huntsman, Jr. All eight of them were subsequently included in the presidential straw poll, where Texas congressman Ron Paul won. However, his win was discounted by the Family Research Council. Businessman Herman Cain finished second, followed by former Pennsylvania senator Rick Santorum.\n\nThe 2013 and 2014 conferences both saw the same two candidates in the top two slots for the presidential straw poll for the first time ever, with Texas senator Ted Cruz and former neurosurgeon Dr. Ben Carson in first and second, respectively. In 2013, Cruz had 42% to Carson's 13%, and in 2014, the gap shortened with Cruz taking only 25% to Carson's 20%. In addition, the 2014 poll marked the first time in the history of the summit that a vice presidential poll was held in addition to the presidential contest. Carson won that poll with 22%, followed by Cruz's 14% and Louisiana governor Bobby Jindal's 11%. With these two polls, Cruz set two records for the summit presidential polls; the first person to win more than one poll, and the highest percentage ever won in any poll since it started in 2007 (with his margin of 42% in 2013).\n\nThe 2015 conference (the last one to be held before the 2016 Republican primaries began) was held from September 25 to September 27. This notably coincided with the announcement of the resignation of Speaker of the House John Boehner on the 25th. When Florida Senator Marco Rubio made the announcement, the entire audience erupted into applause at the news. Subsequently, the results of the presidential straw poll saw the same exact top three candidates for the second year in a row: Cruz once again came in first, with Carson in second, and former Arkansas governor Mike Huckabee in third. Businessman Donald Trump, then the frontrunner for the nomination in all major national polls, came in fifth place with only 5% of the vote.\n\nIn October 2017, addressing the annual gathering for the third time, President Donald Trump became the first sitting president to do so and spoke for about thirty minutes.\n\nIn 2010 the Family Research Council, an important sponsor of the Summit, was included on the Southern Poverty Law Center's list of organizations designated by as anti-LGBT hate groups. The SPLC argues the Family Research Council is trying \"to make the case that the LGBT community is a threat to American society\" and that Tony Perkins falsely claimed high rates of pedophilia among the LGBT community. In 2012 columnist Dana Milbank, while disagreeing with the Family Research Council, criticized their being so listed as reckless after gunman Floyd Lee Corkins had stated of his attack of the Family Research Council, \"Southern Poverty Law lists anti-gay groups. I found them online.\" The SPLC has defended their own position and in 2017 stated of the Summit itself, \"The Values Voter Summit is an annual political conference bringing together some of the most extreme groups on the right, including multiple designated hate groups\" and cited the presence of speakers they designate as anti-Islamic along with organizations they deem anti-LGBT hate groups. In 2017 Newsweek also referred to the Summit as a \"Hate Group\" per the SPLC descriptions.\n\nA presidential straw poll has been held each year since 2007:\n\nOverall, Mike Huckabee has appeared in more VVS polls than anyone else, with 5 (2007, 2009, 2010, 2014, and 2015). Mitt Romney has the second-highest amount, with 4 (2007, 2009, 2010, and 2011). Two individuals have appeared three times: Ted Cruz and Ben Carson (both in 2013, 2014, and 2015). If the 2014 vice presidential poll is counted, then both Carson and Cruz's totals increase to four each, matching Romney. And five individuals have appeared twice: Ron Paul (2007 and 2011), Mike Pence (2009 and 2010), Newt Gingrich (2010 and 2011), Rick Santorum (2011 and 2013), and Marco Rubio (2013 and 2015).\n\nAfter it was announced that Ron Paul had won the 2011 straw poll with 37% of the vote, it was reported that many of his votes came from the over 600 people who registered just before the poll closed on the second and final day of the conference. Family Research Council president Tony Perkins all but discredited Paul's victory, saying, \"I don’t think Ron Paul is truly reflective of where values voters stand.\" He also said, \"Ron Paul bussed in over 600 people not to attend the conference but to hear his speech and vote. I give them credit for being organized.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25051397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25051397", "title": "Vote early and vote often", "text": "Vote early and vote often\n\nVote early and vote often is a generally tongue-in-cheek phrase used in relation to elections and the voting process. Though rarely considered a serious suggestion, the phrase theoretically encourages corrupt electoral activity, but is used mostly to suggest the occurrence of such corruption.\n\nThe phrase had its origins in the United States in the mid-19th century, and had an early appearance in Britain when a newspaper reprinted correspondence from an American solicitor. The phrase, however, did not find widespread use until the early 1900s when it was used in relation to the activities of organized crime figures in Chicago. \n\nThis portion of the phrase suggests a person should arrive to vote early in the day. Most democratic electoral processes involve polling booths, which are open for a mandated period of time. Voting early would suggest a particular enthusiasm for voting not necessarily shared by other electors.\n\nAt the time the phrase was coined, this portion of the phrase is generally accepted to be a reference to voting early on polling day or early in the electoral process and not a reference to the formal process of early voting (which at the time of the phrase's coining did not exist). Before the introduction of the secret ballot in the latter half of the 19th century, open voting was the prevalent voting process. Under this system, returning officers frequently tallied votes as they were cast. Typically, it was neither illegal nor frowned on to report these results while the vote was in progress, and in any event few returning officers had either the ability or the inclination to suppress such reports. In such an environment, a candidate could provide a significant disincentive to vote against him by recording a seemingly insurmountable lead as early in the poll as possible, since at least some supporters of his opponents would presumably have not wanted to attract the ire of a powerful politician in support of a lost cause.\n\nDuring and even after the Nazi seizure of power in Germany, secret voting was technically possible, however, the Nazis subverted the process by packing the polling stations prior to opening with their own fanatical supporters. At the time, it was not illegal in Germany for a voter to decline their right the use of the voting booths provided, so the Nazis would intimidate non-Nazi electorate by voting openly while expressing contempt for secret voting. This, combined with other techniques, was first practiced on a limited basis in the partly-free election of March 1933 and then on a universal basis in all of the sham elections and referenda the Nazis held thereafter. The tactics proved effective in dissuading most ordinary Germans from opposing Adolf Hitler's regime via the electoral process. Following World War II, as part of the denazification process, the reformed government in West Germany quickly passed laws making it illegal for an elector to vote openly without using a voting booth. In East Germany the elections for the Volkskammer had ballots with only one name, and these were deposited in public view; the possibility existed to cross out the name, but no privacy was afforded and serious consequences could result.\n\nEven today, it is often believed that early reports of the success of one party will motivate more of their supporters to come out or dissuade their opponents, although they could also convince less motivated supporters of a leading candidate that their votes are not required. In any event, to prevent just such an occurrence (whether real or perceived) most liberal democracies enforce restrictions while the polls are still open not only on the reporting of results, but also on exit polls and other data that might be construed as an indication of an ongoing election's eventual result.\n\nThe \"Vote often\" portion of this phrase is the more controversial clause of this quote. While the phrase could be interpreted to mean that a citizen should vote in every election he or she is eligible to (such as party primaries, non-presidential election years and in local elections) so as to show a truly noble interest in one's civic duty, it appears that the phrase originally was meant to encourage citizens to vote as many times as they could even in the same election. While this practice was once legal in certain countries under certain limited circumstances (for example, some British voters were formerly allowed to vote both in their own geographical constituency and a special university constituency), it is now strictly prohibited in all liberal democracies.\n\nMost modern democratic electoral processes are operated on a one person, one vote basis. As such, voting often (on one day) would suggest that the person is illegally voting as more than one person – a person with multiple voter registrations. The extra registrations might be for deceased persons, persons known to have left the jurisdiction, fictional entities, and/or persons known to abstain from voting themselves.\n\nAs such, the phrase suggests the person in question is involved in ballot stuffing or some other form of electoral fraud involving an individual casting multiple votes.\n\nCombined with the first part of the phrase, to vote early (either through the original meaning of early in the morning or through the formal process of early voting) gives the fraudulent voter the ability to cast multiple votes in a short period of time (if casting multiple in early votes) and/or time to travel to (an)other precinct(s) in order to cast (a) ballot(s) elsewhere with only a minimal risk of getting caught.\n\nHistorian James Morgan, in a 1926 publication, identified John Van Buren as the originator of the phrase, an identification supported by Laurence Urdang and Janet Braunstein. \"Bartlett's Familiar Quotations\" notes its usage in 1858, by William Porcher Miles.\n\nThe British newspaper \"The Times\" of 27 August 1859 printed a letter about the use of the ballot for voting in the United States, written by Richard Henry Dana, Jr. to his friend Lord Radstock. In the letter, Dana reports:\n\nThe phrase is also noted as the \"much vaunted maxim\" of the Tammany Hall political machine of the 1860s: they used \"repeaters\", who were given five dollars and free liquor to go and vote for recently deceased voters. This process was depicted in the Martin Scorsese film \"Gangs of New York\" (2002), where drunkards are forcibly shaved (to alter their appearance) and turned back toward polling stations to vote again.\n\nIn 1933 in Dáil Éireann (the Irish lower house), Thomas Kelly of Fianna Fáil said, \"If a poor man is sick in hospital and not able to get out, surely it is a good turn to see that his vote is registered. If he has gone away and his neighbours know his opinions, I do not see any harm in personation. [...] vote early and often\".\n\nIn his book \"Capone\", John Kobler attributes the phrase to the gangster Al Capone.\nIn the United States, Republicans accused their opponents of inviting such corruption with their support of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, the \"Motor Voter Law\".\n\n"}
{"id": "30319983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30319983", "title": "White Terror (Taiwan)", "text": "White Terror (Taiwan)\n\nIn Taiwan, the White Terror () was the suppression of political dissidents following the February 28 Incident.\n\nThe period of martial law lasted for 38 years and 57 days from 19 May 1949 to 15 July 1987. Taiwan's period of martial law had been the longest period of martial law in the world at the time it was lifted, but has since been surpassed by the Syrian half-century martial law, which lasted from 1963 to 2011.\n\nThe term \"White Terror\" in its broadest meaning refers to the entire period from 1947 to 1987. Around 140,000 Taiwanese were imprisoned during this period, of which from about 3,000 to 4,000 were executed for their real or perceived opposition to the Kuomintang (KMT, Chinese Nationalist Party) government led by Chiang Kai-shek. Most actual prosecutions, though, took place in 1950–1953. Most of those prosecuted were labeled by the Kuomintang as \"bandit spies\" (), meaning spies for Chinese communists, and punished as such.\nThe KMT imprisoned mostly Taiwan's intellectual and social elite out of fear that they might resist KMT rule or sympathize with communism. For example, the Formosan League for Reemancipation was a Taiwanese independence group established in 1947 which the KMT believed to be under communist control leading to its members being arrested in 1950. The World United Formosans for Independence was persecuted for similar reasons. However, other prosecutions did not have such clear reasoning; in 1968 Bo Yang was imprisoned for his choice of words in translating a Popeye comic strip. A large number of the White Terror's other victims were mainland Chinese, many of whom owed their evacuation to Taiwan to the KMT. Often, after having come unaccompanied to Taiwan, these refugees to Taiwan were considered more disposable than local Taiwanese. Many of the mainland Chinese who survived the White Terror in Taiwan, like Bo Yang and Li Ao, moved on to promote Taiwan's democratization and the reform of the Kuomintang. In 1969, future president Lee Teng-hui was detained and interrogated for more than a week by the Taiwan Garrison Command who demanded to know about his \"communist activities\" and told him \"killing you at this moment is as easy as crushing an ant to death.\" Three years later he was invited to join the cabinet of Chiang Ching-kuo.\n\nFear of discussing the White Terror and the February 28 Incident gradually decreased with the lifting of martial law in 1987, culminating in the establishment of an official public memorial and an apology by President Lee Teng-hui in 1995. In 2008, President Ma Ying-jeou addressed a memorial service for the White Terror in Taipei. Ma apologized to the victims and their family members on behalf of the government, and expressed the hope that Taiwan would never again experience a similar tragedy.\n\nSince the lifting of martial law in 1987, the government has set up the 228 Incident Memorial Foundation, a civilian reparations fund supported by public donations for the victims and their families. Many descendants of victims remain unaware that their family members were victims, while many of the families of victims from Mainland China did not know the details of their relatives' mistreatment during the riot. Those who have received compensation more than two times are still demanding a trial of the still-living soldiers who were responsible for death of their loved ones.\n\nHou Hsiao-hsien's \"A City of Sadness\", the first movie dealing with the events, won the Golden Lion at the 1989 Venice Film Festival. The 2009 thriller \"Formosa Betrayed\" also relates the incident as part of the motivation behind Taiwan independence activist characters.\n\nTaiwanese-American Julie Wu's novel \"The Third Son\" describes the event and its aftermath from the viewpoint of a Taiwanese boy. In her 2013 novel, \"The 228 Legacy\", author Jennifer J. Chow brings to light the emotional ramifications for those who lived through the events yet suppressed their knowledge out of fear. It focuses on how there was such an impact that it permeated throughout multiple generations within the same family.\n\nShawna Yang Ryan's novel, GREEN ISLAND (2016)\"\" tells the story of the incident as it affects three generations of a Taiwanese family.\nIn 2017, Taiwanese game developer Red Candle Games launched \"Detention\", a survival horror video game created and developed for Steam. It is a 2D atmospheric horror side-scroller set in 1960s Taiwan under martial law following the 228 incident. The game also incorporates religious elements based on Taiwanese culture and mythology. The game has received favourable reviews from critics. Rely On Horror gave the game a 9 out of 10, saying that \"every facet of Detention moves in one harmonious lockstep towards an unavoidable tragedy, drowning out the world around you.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55902563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55902563", "title": "Young Christian Democrats (Czech Republic)", "text": "Young Christian Democrats (Czech Republic)\n\nThe Young Christian Democrats of Czech Republic () is a political youth organisation in the Czech Republic. It is a youth wing of Christian and Democratic Union – Czechoslovak People's Party. It was founded in 1998 a JuniorClub. It changed its name to the Young Christian Democrats of Czech Republic in 2004.\n"}
