{"id": "40060894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40060894", "title": "2006 BL8", "text": "2006 BL8\n\n2006 BL8 was detected by the Catalina Sky Survey on January 24, 2006.\n\nSome other NEOs noted for there Earth flybys in the summer of 2013, include 2009 FE (June 4, 2013 at 9.6 LD), 2003 DZ15 (on July 29, 2013 passed at 7.6 LD), and 2005 WK4 (on August 9, 2013 passed at 8.1 LD). \n\n"}
{"id": "32987969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32987969", "title": "Adam and Eve (Cranach)", "text": "Adam and Eve (Cranach)\n\nAdam and Eve is a double painting by German Renaissance master Lucas Cranach the Elder, dating from 1528, housed in the Uffizi, Florence, Italy.\nThere are other paintings by the same artist with the same title, for instance at the Museum der bildenden Künste in Leipzig and the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nThe two biblical ancestors are portrayed, in two different panels, on a dark background, standing on a barely visible ground. Both hold two small branches which cover their sexual organs. Eve holds the traditional apple, with the snake coming to her from above from the tree of life. Adam is shown scratching the right crown part of his scalp.\n\nThe work was part of the Tuscan Grand Dukes' collections since as early as 1688, and has been included in the Uffizi since the beginning of the 18th century. Filippo Baldinucci attributed it to Albrecht Dürer, until the inventory of 1784 assigned it to Cranach.\n\nThe subject continues Dürer's anatomy studies, which had culminated in his large \"Adam and Eve\" panels now in the Museo del Prado. These were the first full-size nudes painted by a German artist. During his stay in Vienna, Cranach had frequented some groups of humanists who were close to Dürer, and from there he was inspired to do a first, smaller version of the theme of Adam and Eve in 1510, currently housed at the National Museum in Warsaw.\n"}
{"id": "33149795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33149795", "title": "Aharonov–Casher effect", "text": "Aharonov–Casher effect\n\nThe Aharonov–Casher effect is a quantum mechanical phenomenon predicted in 1984 in which a traveling magnetic dipole is affected by an electric field. It is dual to the Aharonov–Bohm effect, in which the quantum phase of a charged particle depends upon which side of a magnetic flux tube it comes through. In the Aharonov–Casher effect, the particle has a magnetic moment and the tubes are charged instead. It was observed in a gravitational neutron inferometer in 1989(Cimmino et al.) and later by fluxon interference of magnetic vortices in Josephson junctions (Elion et al.). It has also been seen with electrons and atoms.\n\nIn both effects the particle acquires a phase shift (formula_1) while traveling along some path \"P\". In the Aharonov–Bohm effect it is\n\nWhile for the Aharonov–Casher effect it is\n\nwhere formula_4 is its charge and formula_5 is the magnetic moment. The effects have been observed together(Bogachek and Landman).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7183730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7183730", "title": "Alaska Volcano Observatory", "text": "Alaska Volcano Observatory\n\nThe Alaska Volcano Observatory (AVO) is a joint program of the United States Geological Survey, the Geophysical Institute of the University of Alaska Fairbanks, and the State of Alaska Division of Geological and Geophysical Surveys (ADGGS). AVO was formed in 1988, and uses federal, state, and university resources to monitor and study Alaska's volcanology, hazardous volcanoes, to predict and record eruptive activity, and to mitigate volcanic hazards to life and property. The Observatory website allows users to monitor active volcanoes, with seismographs and webcameras that update regularly. AVO now monitors more than 20 volcanoes in Cook Inlet, which is close to Alaskan population centers, and the Aleutian Arc due to the hazard that plumes of ash pose to aviation.\n\nAVO is located in Anchorage on the campus of Alaska Pacific University.\n\n"}
{"id": "31417872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31417872", "title": "Ammonium perfluorononanoate", "text": "Ammonium perfluorononanoate\n\nAmmonium perfluorononanoate (APFN) is an anionic surfactant that in water forms liquid crystalline phases (Lyotropic liquid crystal). It is the ammonium salt of perfluorononanoic acid.\n\nThe phase diagram of APFN/HO system is delineated by the presence of a lamellar phase and a nematic phase with awide isotropic solution. The nematic phase is of the type I, and the aggregates have a positive and diamagnetic anisotropy. In the presence of a magnetic field, the aggregates align parallel to the field direction. The change of phase at the lamellar-nematic temperature has been ascribed to order-disorder transitions.\n\nIt has recently been shown that the lamellar phase of the APFN/2HO system form multilamellar vesicles under shear rate.\n"}
{"id": "30807984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30807984", "title": "Ann Haven Morgan", "text": "Ann Haven Morgan\n\nAnn Haven Morgan (born \"Anna\" May 6, 1882 – June 5, 1966) was an American zoologist and ecologist.\n\nOne of three offspring of Stanley G. Morgan and Julia A. Douglass Morgan, Anna Morgan was born in Waterford, Connecticut and attended Williams Memorial Institute in New London, Connecticut. In 1902, Anna joined Wellesley College then transferred to Cornell University. After receiving a B.A in 1906, she worked as an assistant and instructor for the Mount Holyoke College department of zoology until 1909. At Cornell University, she was awarded a Ph.D. in 1912 with a dissertation titled, \"A Contribution to the Biology of the May-fly\", after which she became a professor at Mount Holyoke College. Morgan became an associate professor in 1914, then a full professor in 1918. From 1916–1947 she was the chair of the Mount Holyoke zoology department, serving until she retired. During this period, in the summer months she also taught marine zoology at the Woods Hole Marine Biological Laboratory. She died of stomach cancer in South Hadley, Massachusetts.\n\nHer research and instruction focused on limnology, animal hibernation, and ecological and environmental issues. She authored three books on zoology. The 1933 edition of \"American Men of Science\" listed her along with two other women among the 250 total entries. She was awarded research fellowships from the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Rockefeller Foundation and the National Academy of Sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5756554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5756554", "title": "Atomism", "text": "Atomism\n\nAtomism (from Greek , \"atomon\", i.e. \"uncuttable, indivisible\") is a natural philosophy that developed in several ancient traditions. \n\nReferences to the concept of atomism and its atoms appeared in both ancient Greek and ancient Indian philosophical traditions. The ancient Greek atomists theorized that nature consists of two fundamental principles: \"atom\" and \"void\". Unlike their modern scientific namesake in atomic theory, philosophical atoms come in an infinite variety of shapes and sizes, each indestructible, immutable and surrounded by a void where they collide with the others or hook together forming a cluster. Clusters of different shapes, arrangements, and positions give rise to the various macroscopic substances in the world.\n\nThe particles of chemical matter for which chemists and other natural philosophers of the early 19th century found experimental evidence were thought to be indivisible, and therefore were given the name \"atom\", long used by the atomist philosophy. Although the connection to historical atomism is at best tenuous, elementary particles have become a modern analog of philosophical atoms.\n\nPhilosophical atomism is a reductive argument: not only that everything is composed of atoms and void, but that nothing they compose really exists: the only things that really exist are atoms ricocheting off each other mechanistically in an otherwise empty void. Atomism stands in contrast to a substance theory wherein a prime material continuum remains qualitatively invariant under division (for example, the ratio of the four classical elements would be the same in any portion of a homogeneous material).\n\nIndian Buddhists, such as Dharmakirti and others, also developed distinctive theories of atomism, for example, involving momentary (instantaneous) atoms, that flash in and out of existence (kalapas).\n\nIn the 5th century BCE, Leucippus and his pupil Democritus proposed that all matter was composed of small indivisible particles called atoms. Nothing whatsoever is known about Leucippus except that he was the teacher of Democritus. Democritus, by contrast, was a prolific writer, who wrote over eighty known treatises, none of which have survived to the present day complete. However, a massive number of fragments and quotations of his writings have survived. These are the main source of information on his teachings about atoms. Democritus's argument for the existence of atoms hinged on the idea that it is impossible to keep dividing matter for infinity and that matter must therefore be made up of extremely tiny particles.\n\nDemocritus believed that atoms are too small for human senses to detect, they are infinitely many, they come in infinitely many varieties, and that they have always existed. They float in a vacuum, which Democritus called the \"void\", and they vary in form, order, and posture. Some atoms, he maintained, are convex, others concave, some shaped like hooks, and others like eyes. They are constantly moving and colliding into each other. Democritus wrote that atoms and void are the only things that exist and that all other things are merely said to exist by social convention. The objects humans see in everyday life are composed of many atoms united by random collisions and their forms and materials are determined by what kinds of atom make them up. Likewise, human perceptions are caused by atoms as well. Bitterness is caused by small, angular, jagged atoms passing across the tongue; whereas sweetness is caused by larger, smoother, more rounded atoms passing across the tongue.\n\nParmenides denied the existence of motion, change and void. He believed all existence to be a single, all-encompassing and unchanging mass (a concept known as monism), and that change and motion were mere illusions. This conclusion, as well as the reasoning that led to it, may indeed seem baffling to the modern empirical mind, but Parmenides explicitly rejected sensory experience as the path to an understanding of the universe, and instead used purely abstract reasoning. Firstly, he believed there is no such thing as void, equating it with non-being (i.e. \"if the void is, then it is not nothing; therefore it is not the void\"). This in turn meant that motion is impossible, because there is no void to move into.\n\nDemocritus accepted most of Parmenides' arguments, except for the idea that change is an illusion. He believed change was real, and if it was not then at least the illusion had to be explained. He thus supported the concept of void, and stated that the universe is made up of many Parmenidean entities that move around in the void. The void is infinite and provides the space in which the atoms can pack or scatter differently. The different possible packings and scatterings within the void make up the shifting outlines and bulk of the objects that organisms feel, see, eat, hear, smell, and taste. While organisms may feel hot or cold, hot and cold actually have no real existence. They are simply sensations produced in organisms by the different packings and scatterings of the atoms in the void that compose the object that organisms sense as being \"hot\" or \"cold\".\n\nThe work of Democritus only survives in secondhand reports, some of which are unreliable or conflicting. Much of the best evidence of Democritus' theory of atomism is reported by Aristotle in his discussions of Democritus' and Plato's contrasting views on the types of indivisibles composing the natural world.\n\nPlato (c. 427 – c. 347 BCE), if he had been familiar with the atomism of Democritus, would have objected to its mechanistic materialism. He argued that atoms just crashing into other atoms could never produce the beauty and form of the world. In Plato's \"Timaeus\" the character of Timeaus insisted that the cosmos was not eternal but was created, although its creator framed it after an eternal, unchanging model.\n\nOne part of that creation were the four simple bodies of fire, air, water, and earth. But Plato did not consider these corpuscles to be the most basic level of reality, for in his view they were made up of an unchanging level of reality, which was mathematical. These simple bodies were geometric solids, the faces of which were, in turn, made up of triangles. The square faces of the cube were each made up of four isosceles right-angled triangles and the triangular faces of the tetrahedron, octahedron, and icosahedron were each made up of six right-angled triangles.\n\nHe postulated the geometric structure of the simple bodies of the four elements as summarized in the adjacent table. The cube, with its flat base and stability, was assigned to earth; the tetrahedron was assigned to fire because its penetrating points and sharp edges made it mobile. The points and edges of the octahedron and icosahedron were blunter and so these less mobile bodies were assigned to air and water. Since the simple bodies could be decomposed into triangles, and the triangles reassembled into atoms of different elements, Plato's model offered a plausible account of changes among the primary substances.\n\nSometime before 330 BCE Aristotle asserted that the elements of fire, air, earth, and water were not made of atoms, but were continuous. Aristotle considered the existence of a void, which was required by atomic theories, to violate physical principles. Change took place not by the rearrangement of atoms to make new structures, but by transformation of matter from what it was in potential to a new actuality. A piece of wet clay, when acted upon by a potter, takes on its potential to be an actual drinking mug. Aristotle has often been criticized for rejecting atomism, but in ancient Greece the atomic theories of Democritus remained \"pure speculations, incapable of being put to any experimental test. Granted that atomism was, in the long run, to prove far more fruitful than any qualitative theory of matter, in the short run the theory that Aristotle proposed must have seemed in some respects more promising\".\n\n\"Minima naturalia\" were theorized by Aristotle as the smallest parts into which a homogeneous natural substance (e.g., flesh, bone, or wood) could be divided and still retain its essential character. Unlike the atomism of Democritus, the Aristotelian \"natural minimum\" was not conceptualized as physically indivisible. \nInstead, the concept was rooted in Aristotle's hylomorphic worldview, which held that every physical thing is a compound of matter (Greek \"hyle\") and an immaterial substantial form (Greek \"morphe\") that imparts its essential nature and structure. For instance, a rubber ball for a hylomorphist like Aristotle would be rubber (matter) structured by spherical shape (form).\nAristotle's intuition was that there is some smallest size beyond which matter could no longer be structured as flesh, or bone, or wood, or some other such organic substance that for Aristotle, living before the microscope, could be considered homogeneous. For instance, if flesh were divided beyond its natural minimum, what would be left might be a large amount of the element water, and smaller amounts of the other elements. But whatever water or other elements were left, they would no longer have the \"nature\" of flesh: in hylomorphic terms, they would no longer be matter structured by the form of flesh; instead the remaining water, e.g., would be matter structured by the form of water, not the form of flesh.\n\nEpicurus (341–270 BCE) studied atomism with Nausiphanes who had been a student of Democritus. Although Epicurus was certain of the existence of atoms and the void, he was less sure we could adequately explain specific natural phenomena such as earthquakes, lightning, comets, or the phases of the Moon (Lloyd 1973, 25–6). Few of Epicurus' writings survive and those that do reflect his interest in applying Democritus' theories to assist people in taking responsibility for themselves and for their own happiness—since he held there are no gods around that can help them. He understood gods' role as moral ideals.\n\nHis ideas are also represented in the works of his follower Lucretius, who wrote \"On the Nature of Things\". This scientific work in poetic form illustrates several segments of Epicurean theory on how the universe came into its current stage and it shows that the phenomena we perceive are actually composite forms. The atoms and the void are eternal and in constant motion. Atomic collisions create objects, which are still composed of the same eternal atoms whose motion for a while is incorporated into the created entity. Human sensations and meteorological phenomena are also explained by Lucretius in terms of atomic motion.\n\nSome later philosophers attributed the idea that man created gods and that gods did not create man to Democritus. For example, Sextus Empiricus noted:\n\nThree hundred years after Epicurus, Lucretius in his epic poem \"On the Nature of Things\" would depict him as the hero who crushed the monster Religion through educating the people in what was possible in the atoms and what was \"not\" possible in the atoms. However, Epicurus expressed a non-aggressive attitude characterized by his statement: \"The man who best knows how to meet external threats makes into one family all the creatures he can; and those he can not, he at any rate does not treat as aliens; and where he finds even this impossible, he avoids all dealings, and, so far as is advantageous, excludes them from his life.\" \n\nIn ancient Indian philosophy, the Charvaka, Jain, and Ajivika schools of atomism originated as early as the 7th century BCE. Bhattacharya posits that Charvaka may have been one of several atheistic, materialist schools that existed in ancient India. \nThe Nyaya and Vaisheshika schools later developed theories on how atoms combined into more complex objects.\n\nSeveral of these doctrines of atomism are, in some respects, \"suggestively similar\" to that of Democritus. McEvilley (2002) assumes that such similarities are due to extensive cultural contact and diffusion, probably in either direction.\n\nThe Nyaya–Vaisesika school developed one of the earliest forms of atomism; scholars date the Nyaya and Vaisesika texts from the 6th to 1st centuries BC. Vaisesika atomists posited the four elemental atom types, but in Vaisesika physics atoms had 25 different possible qualities, divided between general extensive properties and specific (intensive) properties. Like the Jaina school, the Nyaya–Vaisesika atomists had elaborate theories of how atoms combine. In both Jaina and Vaisesika atomism, atoms first combine in pairs (dyads), and then group into trios of pairs (triads), which are the smallest visible units of matter.\n\nThe Buddhist atomists had very qualitative, Aristotelian-style atomic theory. According to ancient Buddhist atomism, which probably began developing before the 4th century BCE, there are four kinds of atoms, corresponding to the standard elements. Each of these elements has a specific property, such as solidity or motion, and performs a specific function in mixtures, such as providing support or causing growth. Like the Hindu Jains, the Buddhists were able to integrate a theory of atomism with their theological presuppositions. Later Indian Buddhist philosophers, such as Dharmakirti and Dignāga, considered atoms to be point-sized, durationless, and made of energy.\n\nSome of canonical texts of Jainism make reference to matter and atoms (called \"paramāṇu\", a term already used in Yajnavalkya and Yoga Sutra), including \"Pancastikayasara\", \"Kalpasutra\" and \"Tattvarthasutra\". The Jains envisioned the world as consisting wholly of atoms, except for souls. Atoms were considered as the basic building blocks of all matter. Each atom had \"one kind of taste, one smell, one color, and two kinds of touch\", though it is unclear what was meant by \"kind of touch\". Atoms can exist in one of two states: subtle, in which case they can fit in infinitesimally small spaces, and gross, in which case they have extension and occupy a finite space. The texts also give \"detailed theories\" of how atoms could combine, react, vibrate, move, and perform other actions, all of which were thoroughly deterministic.\n\nMedieval Buddhist atomism, flourishing in ca. the 7th century, was very different from the atomist doctrines taught in early Samkhya Buddhism. Medieval Buddhist philosophers Dharmakirti and Dignāga considered atoms to be point-sized, durationless, and made of energy. In discussing the two systems, Fyodor Shcherbatskoy (1930) stresses their commonality, the postulate of \"absolute qualities\" (\"guna-dharma\") underlying all empirical phenomena.\n\nStill later, the Abhidhammattha-sangaha, a text dated to the 11th or 12th century, postulates the existence of \"rupa-kalapa\", imagined as the smallest units of the physical world, of varying elementary composition. Invisible under normal circumstances, the \"rupa-kalapa\" are said to become visible as a result of meditative samadhi.\n\nAtomistic philosophies are found very early in Islamic philosophy and was influenced by earlier Greek and to some extent Indian philosophy. Like both the Greek and Indian versions, Islamic atomism was a charged topic that had the potential for conflict with the prevalent religious orthodoxy, but it was instead more often favoured by orthodox Islamic theologians. It was such a fertile and flexible idea that, as in Greece and India, it flourished in some leading schools of Islamic thought.\n\nThe most successful form of Islamic atomism was in the Asharite school of Islamic theology, most notably in the work of the theologian al-Ghazali (1058–1111). In Asharite atomism, atoms are the only perpetual, material things in existence, and all else in the world is \"accidental\" meaning something that lasts for only an instant. Nothing accidental can be the cause of anything else, except perception, as it exists for a moment. Contingent events are not subject to natural physical causes, but are the direct result of God's constant intervention, without which nothing could happen. Thus nature is completely dependent on God, which meshes with other Asharite Islamic ideas on causation, or the lack thereof (Gardet 2001). Al-Ghazali also used the theory to support his theory of occasionalism. In a sense, the Asharite theory of atomism has far more in common with Indian atomism than it does with Greek atomism.\n\nOther traditions in Islam rejected the atomism of the Asharites and expounded on many Greek texts, especially those of Aristotle. An active school of philosophers in Al-Andalus, including the noted commentator Averroes (1126–1198 CE) explicitly rejected the thought of al-Ghazali and turned to an extensive evaluation of the thought of Aristotle. Averroes commented in detail on most of the works of Aristotle and his commentaries became very influential in Jewish and Christian scholastic thought.\n\nWhile Aristotelian philosophy eclipsed the importance of the atomists in late Roman and medieval Europe, their work was still preserved and exposited through commentaries on the works of Aristotle. In the 2nd century, Galen (AD 129–216) presented extensive discussions of the Greek atomists, especially Epicurus, in his Aristotle commentaries. According to historian of atomism Joshua Gregory, there was no serious work done with atomism from the time of Galen until Gassendi and Descartes resurrected it in the 17th century; \"the gap between these two 'modern naturalists' and the ancient Atomists marked \"the exile of the atom\" and \"it is universally admitted that the Middle Ages had abandoned Atomism, and virtually lost it.\"\n\nHowever, although the ancient atomists' works were unavailable, Scholastic thinkers still had Aristotle's critiques of atomism. In medieval universities there were expressions of atomism. For example, in the 14th century Nicholas of Autrecourt considered that matter, space, and time were all made up of indivisible atoms, points, and instants and that all generation and corruption took place by the rearrangement of material atoms. The similarities of his ideas with those of al-Ghazali suggest that Nicholas may have been familiar with Ghazali's work, perhaps through Averroes' refutation of it (Marmara, 1973–74).\n\nAlthough the atomism of Epicurus had fallen out of favor in the centuries of Scholasticism, the \"minima naturalia\" of Aristotelianism received extensive consideration. Speculation on \"minima naturalia\" provided philosophical background for the mechanistic philosophy of early modern thinkers such as Descartes, and for the alchemical works of Geber and Daniel Sennert, who in turn influenced the corpuscularian alchemist Robert Boyle, one of the founders of modern chemistry.\n\nA chief theme in late Roman and Scholastic commentary on this concept is reconciling \"minima naturalia\" with the general Aristotelian principle of infinite divisibility. Commentators like John Philoponus and Thomas Aquinas reconciled these aspects of Aristotle's thought by distinguishing between mathematical and \"natural\" divisibility. With few exceptions, much of the curriculum in the universities of Europe was based on such Aristotelianism for most of the Middle Ages.\n\nIn the 17th century, a renewed interest arose in Epicurean atomism and corpuscularianism as a hybrid or an alternative to Aristotelian physics. The main figures in the rebirth of atomism were René Descartes, Pierre Gassendi, and Robert Boyle, as well as other notable figures.\n\nOne of the first groups of atomists in England was a cadre of amateur scientists known as the Northumberland circle, led by Henry Percy, 9th Earl of Northumberland (1564–1632). Although they published little of account, they helped to disseminate atomistic ideas among the burgeoning scientific culture of England, and may have been particularly influential to Francis Bacon, who became an atomist around 1605, though he later rejected some of the claims of atomism. Though they revived the classical form of atomism, this group was among the scientific avant-garde: the Northumberland circle contained nearly half of the confirmed Copernicans prior to 1610 (the year of Galileo's \"The Starry Messenger\"). Other influential atomists of late 16th and early 17th centuries include Giordano Bruno, Thomas Hobbes (who also changed his stance on atomism late in his career), and Thomas Hariot. A number of different atomistic theories were blossoming in France at this time, as well (Clericuzio 2000).\n\nGalileo Galilei (1564–1642) was an advocate of atomism in his 1612, \"Discourse on Floating Bodies\" (Redondi 1969). In \"The Assayer\", Galileo offered a more complete physical system based on a corpuscular theory of matter, in which all phenomena—with the exception of sound—are produced by \"matter in motion\". Galileo identified some basic problems with Aristotelian physics through his experiments. He utilized a theory of atomism as a partial replacement, but he was never unequivocally committed to it. For example, his experiments with falling bodies and inclined planes led him to the concepts of circular inertial motion and accelerating free-fall. The current Aristotelian theories of impetus and terrestrial motion were inadequate to explain these. While atomism did not explain the law of fall either, it was a more promising framework in which to develop an explanation because motion was conserved in ancient atomism (unlike Aristotelian physics).\n\nRené Descartes' (1596–1650) \"mechanical\" philosophy of corpuscularism had much in common with atomism, and is considered, in some senses, to be a different version of it. Descartes thought everything physical in the universe to be made of tiny \"vortices\" of matter. Like the ancient atomists, Descartes claimed that sensations, such as taste or temperature, are caused by the shape and size of tiny pieces of matter. The main difference between atomism and Descartes' concept was the existence of the void. For him, there could be no vacuum, and all matter was constantly swirling to prevent a void as corpuscles moved through other matter. Another key distinction between Descartes' view and classical atomism is the mind/body duality of Descartes, which allowed for an independent realm of existence for thought, soul, and most importantly, God. Gassendi's concept was closer to classical atomism, but with no atheistic overtone.\n\nPierre Gassendi (1592–1655) was a Catholic priest from France who was also an avid natural philosopher. He was particularly intrigued by the Greek atomists, so he set out to \"purify\" atomism from its heretical and atheistic philosophical conclusions (Dijksterhius 1969). Gassendi formulated his atomistic conception of mechanical philosophy partly in response to Descartes; he particularly opposed Descartes' reductionist view that only purely mechanical explanations of physics are valid, as well as the application of geometry to the whole of physics (Clericuzio 2000).\n\nJohann Chrysostom Magnenus (c. 1590 – c. 1679) published his \"Democritus reviviscens\" in 1646. Magnenus was the first to arrive at a scientific estimate of the size of an \"atom\" (i.e. of what would today be called a molecule).\nMeasuring how much incense had to be burned before it could be smelled everywhere in a large church, he calculated the number of molecules in a grain of incense to be of the order 10, only about one order of magnitude below the actual figure.\n\nCorpuscularianism is similar to atomism, except that where atoms were supposed to be indivisible, corpuscles could in principle be divided. In this manner, for example, it was theorized that mercury could penetrate into metals and modify their inner structure, a step on the way towards transmutative production of gold. Corpuscularianism was associated by its leading proponents with the idea that some of the properties that objects appear to have are artifacts of the perceiving mind: 'secondary' qualities as distinguished from 'primary' qualities. Not all corpuscularianism made use of the primary-secondary quality distinction, however. An influential tradition in medieval and early modern alchemy argued that chemical analysis revealed the existence of robust corpuscles that retained their identity in chemical compounds (to use the modern term). William R. Newman has dubbed this approach to matter theory \"chymical atomism,\" and has argued for its significance to both the mechanical philosophy and to the chemical atomism that emerged in the early 19th century. Corpuscularianism stayed a dominant theory over the next several hundred years and retained its links with alchemy in the work of scientists such as Robert Boyle and Isaac Newton in the 17th century. It was used by Newton, for instance, in his development of the corpuscular theory of light.\nThe form that came to be accepted by most English scientists after Robert Boyle (1627–1692) was an amalgam of the systems of Descartes and Gassendi. In The Sceptical Chymist (1661), Boyle demonstrates problems that arise from chemistry, and offers up atomism as a possible explanation. The unifying principle that would eventually lead to the acceptance of a hybrid corpuscular–atomism was mechanical philosophy, which became widely accepted by physical sciences. \n\nBy the late 18th century, the useful practices of engineering and technology began to influence philosophical explanations for the composition of matter. Those who speculated on the ultimate nature of matter began to verify their \"thought experiments\" with some repeatable demonstrations, when they could.\n\nRoger Boscovich provided the first general mathematical theory of atomism, based on the ideas of Newton and Leibniz but transforming them so as to provide a programme for atomic physics.\n\nIn 1808, John Dalton assimilated the known experimental work of many people to summarize the empirical evidence on the composition of matter. He noticed that distilled water everywhere analyzed to the same elements, hydrogen and oxygen. Similarly, other purified substances decomposed to the same elements in the same proportions by weight.\n\nFurthermore, he concluded that there was a unique atom for each element, using Lavoisier's definition of an element as a substance that could not be analyzed into something simpler. Thus, Dalton concluded the following.\n\nAnd then he proceeded to give a list of relative weights in the compositions of several common compounds, summarizing:\n\nDalton concluded that the fixed proportions of elements by weight suggested that the atoms of one element combined with only a limited number of atoms of the other elements to form the substances that he listed.\n\nDalton's atomic theory remained controversial throughout the 19th century. Whilst the Law of definite proportion was accepted, the hypothesis that this was due to atoms was not so widely accepted. For example, in 1826 when Sir Humphry Davy presented Dalton the Royal Medal from the Royal Society, Davy said that the theory only became useful when the atomic conjecture was ignored. \nSir Benjamin Collins Brodie in 1866 published the first part of his Calculus of Chemical Operations as a non-atomic alternative to the Atomic Theory. He described atomic theory as a 'Thoroughly materialistic bit of joiners work'. Alexander Williamson used his Presidential Address to the London Chemical Society in 1869 to defend the Atomic Theory against its critics and doubters. This in turn led to further meetings at which the positivists again attacked the supposition that there were atoms. The matter was finally resolved in Dalton's favour in the early 20th century with the rise of atomic physics.\n\nAtoms and molecules had long been theorized as the constituents of matter, and Albert Einstein published a paper in 1905 that explained in precise detail how the motion that Brown had observed was a result of the pollen being moved by individual water molecules, making one of his first big contributions to science. This explanation of Brownian motion served as convincing evidence that atoms and molecules exist, and was further verified experimentally by Jean Perrin in 1908. Perrin was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1926 \"for his work on the discontinuous structure of matter\". The direction of the force of atomic bombardment is constantly changing, and at different times the particle is hit more on one side than another, leading to the seemingly random nature of the motion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25929756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25929756", "title": "Automated mineralogy", "text": "Automated mineralogy\n\nAutomated mineralogy is a generic term describing a range of analytical solutions, areas of commercial enterprise, and a growing field of scientific research and engineering applications involving largely automated and quantitative analysis of minerals, rocks and man-made materials.\n\nAutomated mineralogy analytical solutions are characterised by integrating largely automated measurement techniques based on Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) and Energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS). Commercially available lab-based solutions include QEMSCAN and Mineral Liberation Analyzer (MLA) from FEI Company, Mineralogic from Zeiss, INCAMineral from Oxford Instruments, the TIMA (Tescan integrated mineral analyzer) from TESCAN and AMICS from Bruker. The first oil & gas wellsite solution was launched jointly by Zeiss and CGG Veritas in 2011 called RoqSCAN. This was followed approximately 6 months later by the release of QEMSCAN Wellsite by FEI Company. More recently in 2016, a ruggedized mine site solution for mining and mineral processing was launched by Zeiss called MinSCAN.\n\nThe business of automated mineralogy is concerned with the commercialisation of the technology and software in terms of development and marketing of integrated solutions. This includes all aspects of: service; maintenance; customer support; R&D; marketing and sales. Customers of automated mineralogy solutions include: laboratory facilities; mine sites, well sites, and research institutions.\n\nAutomated mineralogy solutions are applied in a variety of fields requiring statistically reliable, quantitative mineralogical information. These include the following sectors: mining; O&G; coal; environmental sciences; forensic geosciences; archaeology;agribusiness; built environment and planetary geology.\n\nThe first recorded use of the term \"automated mineralogy\" in technical journals can be traced back to seminal papers in the late eighties early nineties describing QEMSCAN technology and applications. The term gained significant popularity after it was used to name a new international conference in July 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "45426431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45426431", "title": "Ball-bearing Run", "text": "Ball-bearing Run\n\nBall-bearing Run was the nickname of the war-time \"Stockholmsruten\" flight between Stockholm and Leuchers, Scotland between 1939 and 1945. After 1942 the flight was run by the Royal Norwegian Air Force, but for political reasons operated as an ordinary BOAC Flight, the unarmed aircraft having civilian registration and the Norwegian military crew wearing BOAC uniforms and carrying British passports.\n\nThe Stockholmsruten was set up by the Norwegian Government, exiled in UK with the aim of transporting Norwegians having escaped from Nazi-occupied Norway. Several types of aircraft were used, but the backbone of Stockholmsruten was the Lockheed Lodestar\n\nSince the aircraft also carried ball bearings, of greatest importance to the British war industry, this is how the flight got its nickname in UK.\n\nThe service also carried other passengers, one of the most notable being Danish physicist, Niels Bohr, who was flown out in a de Havilland Mosquito in 1943.\n\nBetween 1939 and 1945, 6,000 passengers, and 500,000 tons of freight, were transported by BOAC between Stockholm and Great Britain.\n\n"}
{"id": "29977227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29977227", "title": "Baptism in early Christianity", "text": "Baptism in early Christianity\n\nBaptism has been part of Christianity from the start, as shown by the many mentions in the Acts of the Apostles and the Pauline epistles.\n\nAlthough the term \"baptism\" is not today used to describe the Jewish rituals (in contrast to New Testament times, when the Greek word \"baptismos\" did indicate Jewish ablutions or rites of purification), the purification rites (or \"mikvah\"—ritual immersion) in Jewish law and tradition have some similarity to baptism, and the two have been linked. In the Hebrew Bible and other Jewish texts, immersion in water for ritual purification was established for restoration to a condition of \"ritual purity\" in specific circumstances. For example, Jews who (according to the Law of Moses) became ritually defiled by contact with a corpse had to use the mikvah before being allowed to participate in the Temple in Jerusalem. Immersion was not required for converts to Judaism as part of their conversion, although many mistakenly believe otherwise. Immersion in the mikvah represents a change in status in regards to purification, restoration, and qualification for full religious participation in the life of the community, ensuring that the cleansed person will not impose uncleanness on property or its owners.\n\nThe New Testament includes several references to baptism as an important practice among early Christians and, while giving no actual account of its institution by Jesus, portrays him as giving instructions, after his resurrection, for his followers to perform the rite (see Great Commission). It also gives interpretations by the Apostle Paul and in the First Epistle of Peter of the significance of baptism.\n\nThe baptism of Jesus is described in the gospels of Matthew, Mark and Luke. John's gospel does not directly describe Jesus' baptism.\n\nJohn the Baptist was a 1st-century mission preacher on the banks of the River Jordan. He baptized Jews for repentance in the River Jordan.\n\nAt the start of his ministry, Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist. Critical scholars broadly agree that the baptism of Jesus is one of the most authentic, or historically likely, events in the life of the historical Jesus. Christian baptism has its origin in the baptism of Jesus, in both a direct and historical sense. Many of the earliest followers of Jesus were people who, like him, were baptized in the Jordan by John the Baptist.\n\nThe Gospel of John states that Jesus at an early stage led a mission of baptism that drew crowds. , considered by many scholars to be a later editorial insertion, denies that Jesus himself baptized and states that he did so only through his disciples.\n\nSome prominent scholars conclude that Jesus did not baptize. Gerd Theissen and Annette Merz assert that Jesus did not baptize, detached the notion of repentance from baptism, recognized John's baptism, and put forward a purity ethic in tension with baptism. The \"Oxford Dictionary of World Religions\" also states that Jesus did not baptize as part of his ministry.\n\nE. P. Sanders omits John's account of Jesus' baptizing mission from his portrait of Jesus as a historical figure.\n\nRobert W. Funk considers the account of Jesus' baptism ministry in John to have internal difficulties: that, for instance, it reports Jesus coming to Judea even though he is already in Jerusalem and thus in Judea. actually speaks of Jesus and his disciples coming, not \"εἰς τὴν Ἰουδαίαν\" (into Judea), but \"εἰς τὴν Ἰουδαίαν γῆν\" (into the Judean countryside), which some interpret as contrasted with Jerusalem, the scene of the encounter with Nicodemus described immediately before. According to the Jesus Seminar, the passage about Jesus \"coming to Judea\" (as they interpret \"εἰς τὴν Ἰουδαίαν γῆν\") to lead a mission of baptism probably preserves no historical information (a \"black\" rating).\n\nOn the other hand, the Cambridge Companion to Jesus takes a different view. According to this source, Jesus accepted and made his own John the Baptist's message of repentance, forgiveness and baptism; taking over from John, when the latter was imprisoned, he called for repentance and for baptism as a first step in accepting the imminent Kingdom of God; and the central place of baptism in his message is confirmed by the passage in John about Jesus baptizing. After John's execution, Jesus ceased baptizing, through he may have occasionally returned to the practice; accordingly, while baptism played an important part in Jesus' ministry before John's death and again among his followers after his resurrection, it had no such prominence in between.\n\nNew Testament scholar Raymond E. Brown, a specialist in the Johannine writings, considers that the parenthetic editorial remark of that Jesus baptized only through his disciples was intended to clarify or correct the twice repeated statement in the preceding verses that Jesus did baptize, and that the reason for its insertion may have been that the author considered the baptism that the disciples administered to be a continuation of the Baptist's work, not baptism in the Holy Spirit.\n\nOther New Testament scholars also accept the historical value of this passage in John. This is the view expressed by Joel B. Green, Scot McKnight, I. Howard Marshall. Another states that there is \"no \"a priori\" reason to reject the report of Jesus and his disciples' conducting a ministry of baptism for a time\", and mentions that report as one of the items in John's account \"that are likely to be historical and ought to be given due weight\".\n\nIn his book on the relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth, Daniel S. Dapaah says that John's account \"may be a snippet of historical tradition\", and comments that the silence of the Synoptic Gospels does not mean that the information in John was invented, and that Mark's account also suggests that Jesus worked with John at first, before moving to Galilee. Frederick J. Cwiekowski agrees that the account in John \"gives the impression\" that Jesus baptized.\n\nThe Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible says that \"though \"he\" [Christ] himself baptized not \"so many as\" his disciples; 'For he suffered them for an example, preferring one another.'\n\nThe Gospel of John remarks, in , that, though Jesus drew many people to his baptism, they still did not accept his testimony, and the Jesus Seminar concludes, on the basis of Josephus's accounts, that John the Baptist likely had a larger presence in the public mind than Jesus.\n\nIn the Pauline epistles baptism effects and represents the believer's union with Christ, a union by which the believer shares in Christ's death and resurrection; cleanses of sin; incorporates into the Body of Christ and makes one \"drink of the Spirit.\"\n\nThe conception of a sacramental principle, widespread not only in the Greco-Roman world, but even in pre-Columbian America and in preliterate societies, took on a unique significance, and to Paul's influence is attributed an interpretation given to the Christian rite in terms of the Greco-Roman mysteries but little weight can be attached to the counterparts of baptism in mystery religions as an explanation of the Christian practice.\n\nMatthew begins with the \"generation\" of Jesus as Son of David, followed by the visit of the gentile Magi, and the flight into Egypt to escape Herod, after whose death the holy family returns into the land of Israel, then moves to Nazareth, and then includes a detailed version of the preaching of John the Baptist, followed by the baptism of Jesus. John protests to Jesus that he needs to be baptized by Jesus, but Jesus tells him to let it be so now, saying that it is fitting for the two of them (\"for us\") to thus \"fulfill all righteousness.\" When Jesus is baptized, he goes up immediately out of the water, the heavens open and John sees the Spirit of God descend upon him like a dove, alighting on him, and he hears a voice from heaven say, \"This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased.\"\n\nLater, at the request of the mother of James and John, who prompted her to present their request to him to declare that they are to sit one at his right hand and the other at his left, Jesus speaks of the \"cup\" he is to drink, and he tells them that they too will drink of his cup, but in Matthew's gospel Jesus does not \"explicitly\" state that the baptism with which he must be baptized is also the \"cup\" that he must drink.\n\nThe Gospel of Matthew also includes the most famous version of the Great Commission. Here, the resurrected Jesus appears to the apostles and commissions them to make disciples of all nations, to baptize, and teach. This commission reflects the program adopted by the infant Christian movement.\n\nThis gospel, today generally believed by scholars to be the first and to have been used as a basis for Matthew and Luke, begins with Jesus' baptism by John, who preached a baptism of repentance for forgiveness of sins. John says of Jesus that he will baptize not with water but with the Holy Spirit. At Jesus' baptism, he hears God's voice proclaiming him to be his Son, and he sees the spirit like a dove descend on him.\n\nDuring Jesus' ministry, when James and John ask Jesus for seats of honor in the coming kingdom, Jesus likens his fate to the cup that he will drink and to the baptism with which he must be baptized, the very cup and baptism in store for John and James (that is, martyrdom).\nThe is thought to have been compiled early in the 2nd century, and initially appended to the gospel by the middle of that century. It says that those who believe and are baptized will be saved, \"but he who does not believe will be condemned.\" Mark's gospel does not \"explicitly\" state that baptized persons who believe will be saved from the \"wrath to come,\" the wrath to which John the Baptist refers in Matthew's gospel, but readers can infer that being \"condemned\" includes the \"wrath to come\".\n\nThis gospel begins with a statement that it contains reliable information obtained directly from the original eyewitnesses and servants of the word. It introduces the conception of John the Baptist, the annunciation of Gabriel to Mary the virgin, the birth of the Baptist who will be called the prophet of the Most High, and then the birth of Jesus, in the days of Herod, king of Judea, and of Caesar Augustus, emperor of the Roman Empire. There follows the account of Jesus in the Temple among the teachers; and then the calling and preaching of the prophet John the Baptist in the days of Tiberius Caesar, emperor, of Herod and Philip, tetrarchs, of Annas and Caiaphas, high priests; and then by far the \"briefest account\" in the canonical Gospels of the baptism of Jesus.\n\nThe baptism of John is \"different\" from the baptism of the one who is to come after him. Jesus declares later that he has \"another\" baptism to be baptized with, and that he is under constraint (he is straitened) until it is accomplished. (The petition of the mother of James and John, the personal request of James and John, and Jesus' declaration to them that they will be baptized as he will be baptized, and will drink the cup that he will drink, is not in Luke's gospel.)\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, the risen Jesus appears to the disciples and the eleven apostles gathered together with them in Jerusalem and gives them the Great Commission without \"explicitly\" speaking of baptism, but readers can infer that \"the forgiveness of sins\" here includes \"baptism\" according to the preaching of the apostles at the time of Luke's gospel.\n\nThe Gospel of John mentions John the Baptist's baptizing activity, in particular his baptism of Jesus, and his statement that Jesus would baptize with the Holy Spirit. It also mentions baptizing activity by Jesus, specifying that the baptizing was not done by Jesus himself but by his disciples.\n\nSome references to water in John's Gospel have been interpreted as referring to baptism, in particular, the phrase \"born of water and the Spirit\" and the account of blood and water coming out of the side of Jesus when pierced after crucifixion\n\nActs of the Apostles, written , states that about 3,000 people in Jerusalem were baptized in one day on Pentecost. It further relates baptisms of men and women in Samaria, of an Ethiopian eunuch, of Saul of Tarsus, of the household of Cornelius, of Lydia's household, of the Philippi jailer's household, of many Corinthians and of certain Corinthians baptized by Paul personally.\n\nIn Acts, the prerequisites of baptism are faith and repentance, but in certain cases (like Cornelius' household) the reception of the Spirit also precedes baptism.\n\nAlso in Acts, some twelve men who had undergone John's baptism, a \"baptism of repentance\" that John administered, \"telling the people to believe in the one who was to come after him, that is, Jesus\", were baptized \"in the name of the Lord Jesus\", whereupon they received the Holy Spirit.\n\n, and speak of baptism \"in the name of Jesus\" or \"in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ\", but whether this was a formula that was used has been questioned.\n\nThere is a scholarly consensus that the earliest Christian baptism was by immersion. Thomas Schreiner likewise states that \"Most scholars agree that immersion was practiced in the NT\", identifying submersion as the form of immersion practiced. Heyler says most New Testament scholars generally agree that Christian baptism in the New Testament era was by immersion. Everett Ferguson similarly speaks of \"general scholarly agreement\" that the baptism commanded by Jesus was immersion in water by dipping, in the form of a \"full bath\". He describes medieval depictions of Jesus standing in water while John poured water over him as a \"strange fantasy\" deriving from later church practice. Di Berardino describes the baptism of the New Testament era as generally requiring total immersion, Tischler says that total immersion seems to have been most commonly used, and Lang says \"Baptism in the Bible was by immersion, that is, the person went fully under the waters\". Sookey says it is \"almost certain\" that immersion was used. The \"Global Dictionary of Theology\" says that it is probable that immersion was the early church's normal mode of baptism, but that it was not seen as an important issue.\n\nThe \"Didache\" or \"Teaching of the Twelve Apostles\", an anonymous book of 16 short chapters, is probably the earliest known written instructions, outside of the Bible, for administering baptism. The first version of it was written . The second, with insertions and additions, was written . This work, rediscovered in the 19th century, provides a unique look at Christianity in the Apostolic Age and is the first explicit reference to baptism by pouring, although the New Testament does not exclude the possibility of this practice.\" Its instructions on baptism are as follows:\nCommentaries typically understand that the Didache indicates a preference for baptizing by immersion. in \"living water\" (i.e., running water, seen as symbolic of life). Furthermore, in cases of insufficient water it permits pouring (affusion), which it differentiates from immersion, using the Greek word \"ekcheō\", (\"pour\", in the English translation) and not \"baptizō\" (\"baptize\", in the English translation), while at the same time considering the action done by pouring to be a baptism, giving no hint that this form made the baptism any less valid, and showing that immersion was not the only baptismal practice then acceptable. Barclay observes the Didache shows that baptism in the early church was by total immersion, if possible, Barton describes the immersion of the Didache as \"ideally by total immersion\", and Welch says it was by \"complete immersion\".\n\nJames V. Brownson notes that the Didache does not specify either immersion or pouring when using running water, and Sinclair B. Ferguson argues that really the only mode that the Didache mentions is affusion. Martin and Davids say the Didache envisages \"some form of immersion\", and the \"Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church\" refers its readers to its entry on immersion, which it distinguishes from submersion and affusion.\n\nThe theology of baptism attained precision in the 3rd and 4th centuries. While instruction was at first given after baptism, believers were given increasingly specific instructions before being baptized, especially in the face of heresies in the 4th century. By the 4th and 5th centuries, a series of rites spread over several weeks led up to the actual baptism at Easter: catechumens attended several meetings of intensive catechetical instruction, often by the bishop himself, and often accompanied by special prayers, exorcisms, and other rites. Catechumens recited the Creed on Holy Saturday to show that they had completed their catechetical instruction. At dawn following the Paschal Vigil starting the night of Holy Saturday, they were taken to the baptistry where the bishop consecrated the water with a long prayer recounting the types of baptisms. The catechumens disrobed, were anointed with oil, renounced the devil and his works, confessed their faith in the Trinity, and were immersed in the font. They were then anointed with chrism, received the laying on of hands, clothed in white, and led to join the congregation in the Easter celebration. By then, postponement of baptism had become general, and a large proportion of believers were merely catechumens (Constantine was not baptized until he was dying); but as baptisms of the children of Christians, using an adaptation of the rite intended for adults, became more common than baptisms of adult converts, the number of catechumens decreased.\n\nAs baptism was believed to forgive sins, the issue of sins committed after baptism arose. Some insisted that apostasy, even under threat of death, and other grievous sins cut one off forever from the Church. As indicated in the writings of Saint Cyprian, others favoured readmitting the \"lapsi\" easily. The rule that prevailed was that they were readmitted only after undergoing a period of penance that demonstrated sincere repentance.\n\nWhat is now generally called the Nicene Creed, longer than the text adopted by the First Council of Nicaea of 325, and known also as the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed because of its adoption in that form by the First Council of Constantinople in 381, was probably the baptismal creed then in use in Constantinople, the venue of the 381 Council.\n\nScholars \"generally agree that the early church baptized by immersion\", but sometimes used other forms. Howard Marshall says that immersion was the general rule, but affusion and even sprinkling were also practised, His presentation of this view has been described by Porter and Cross as \"a compelling argument\". Laurie Guy says immersion was probably the norm, but that at various times and places full immersion, partial immersion and affusion were probably in use.\n\nIt is disputed where immersion was necessarily total. Tischler and the \"Encyclopedia of Catholicism\" say that the immersion was total. The same encyclopedia of Roman Catholicism notes that the preference of the Early Church was total immersion in a stream or the sea or, if these were not available, in a fountain or bath-sized tank, and \"Eerdman's Handbook to the History of Christianity\" says that baptism was normally by immersion, without specifying whether total or partial. The Dictionary of the Bible (2004) says \"Archaeological evidence from the early centuries shows that baptism was sometimes administered by submersion or immersion... but also by affusion from a vessel when water was poured on the candidate's head...\". In one form of early Christian baptism, the candidate stood in water and water was poured over the upper body. Baptism of the sick or dying usually used means other than even partial immersion and was still considered valid. Internet-available illustrations of ancient Christian representations of baptism from as early as the 2nd century include those in CF Rogers, \"Baptism and Christian Archeology\", the chapter \"The Didache and the Catacombs\" of Philip Schaff's \"The Oldest Church Manual Called the Teaching of the Twelve Apostles\", and Wolfrid Cote's \"The Archaeology of Baptism\".\n\nIn \"The Archaeology of Baptism\" (1876) Wolfrid Cote, quoting Prudentius, who in his \"Psychomachia\" spoke of the \"bathed chests\" of the baptized, and the views of two earlier Italian archaeologists, stated that \"the primitive mode appears to have been this: The administrator and candidate both standing in the water the former placed his right hand on the head of the candidate, and, pronouncing the baptismal words, gently bowed him forward, till he was completely immersed in the water\". He included in his book a woodcut of a fresco in the Catacomb of San Callisto (a photographic reproduction appears in this article), and reported that one archaeologist interpreted it as a youth being baptized by affusion, while for another the youth standing in the water was \"immersed in a cloud of water\". Cote described this painting as of great antiquity, probably of the 4th or 5th century, while remarking that it is impossible to ascertain the precise age of the pictures in the catacombs of Rome. The other paintings that Cote described are of much later periods, while the mosaic in the Baptistery of San Giovanni in Fonte, in Ravenna (erected in the 4th century), which shows John baptizing Jesus by pouring water on his head from a cup, Cote explained as the product of later restoring. The font in this baptistery Cote described as ten feet in diameter and three and a half feet deep. Cote listed 67 still existing Italian baptisteries dating from the 4th to the 14th centuries, all of which he understood to have been used for total immersion. He made no mention of any pre-Constantine evidence.\n\nIn 1903 Clement F Rogers published \"Baptism and Christian Archaeology\". This was a study of the archaeological evidence, both the positive evidence that paintings and carvings on sarcophagi etc. provide about how baptism actually was conferred, and the negative evidence given by the structure of baptismal fonts on how it could not have been conferred. He used literary sources plentifully but merely for illustration. For the first three centuries (i.e. before the time of Constantine) direct archaeological evidence is limited to pictures of baptism in the catacombs of Rome. Rogers concluded that \"the direct evidence from archaeology alone may not be conclusive to show that in pre-Constantinian times baptism by affusion only was practiced generally or indeed in any one single case; but it does show that there was nothing repugnant in it to the general mind, that no stress was laid on total immersion, that the most important moments were held to be those when water was poured over the catchumen, and when the minister laid his hand on his head. This, taken in connexion with the known customs of later ages, make it more than probable that the usual method of administration was by affusion only.\" Taking into account the positive archaeological evidence of post-Constantinian times, Roger concludes: \"All the evidence of archaeology goes to prove that the essential part of baptism was considered in the early Church to be the pouring of water over the candidate's head by the bishop, or the guiding his head under a descending stream, followed by the laying on of hands\"; he adds: \"There remains the question, whether this was preceded by a self-immersion\". To answer this question, he examines the negative evidence of ancient baptismal fonts, especially those found in archaeological sites, providing on pp. 347–49 a Synoptic Table of Fonts, with date, shape, diameter and depth, showing that some of them could not have been intended for full immersion.\n\nIn his \"Churches Separated from Rome\" (1907), Louis Duchesne responded to accusations by Eastern Orthodox that the Roman Catholic was corrupted because of \"the Filioque, baptism by affusion, unleavened bread, &c.\", by pointing to the absence of any ancient representation of baptism that showed the neophyte actually being immersed totally.\n\nAlois Stenzel's 1958 study of baptism with a focus on liturgy argued that both immersion and affusion were practised by the early Church, since some baptismal pools which have been uncovered were too shallow for baptism and pictorial evidence favoured affusion.\n\n\"Baptism in the Early Church\" by George Rice (1981), in \"Bible and Spade\", cited Cote with favour and claimed that archaeology \"overwhelmingly testifies to immersion as the normal mode of baptism in the Christian church during the first ten to fourteen centuries\". Rice cites in particular imagery in the Catacomb of San Ponziano and a crypt in the catacomb of Santa Lucina, as well as a 9th- or 10th-century fresco in the basilica of San Clemente he also states that \"pictures of Jesus standing in water while John \"pours\" water over His head are of a much later date than those depicting immersion and they demonstrate the change in the mode of baptism that came into the church\". He mentions a 4th-century baptistery sufficiently large for immersion, Rice says that archaeological evidence demonstrates some early baptismal fonts large enough for adult immersion were later made smaller or replaced, to accommodate affusion baptism of infants, leading to mistakes in the dating of art works by 20th-century studies.\n\nIn his contribution to the 1986 11th International Archaeology Congress on \"What do the texts teach us on the equipment and furnishings needed for baptism in southern Gaul and northern Italy?\" Jean-Charles Picard concluded that the texts speak only of immersion and that the area has no archaeological images of baptism by pouring water on the head.\n\nIn 1987, on the basis of archaeology and parallels with Jewish practice, Sanford La Sor considered it likely that total immersion was also Christian practice.\n\nIn the same year, Lothar Heiser, in his study of baptism in the Orthodox Church, concluded on the basis of the literary and pictorial evidence in that field that \"the water customarily reached the hips of the baptizand; after calling on the triune God, the priest bent the baptizand under so as to dip him in water over the head; in the cases of pouring in the Didache and in sickbed baptism the baptized did not stand in the font\"; but acknowledges that in present Greek practice the priest places the infant being baptized as far down in the water as possible and scoops water over the head so as to cover the child fully with water.\n\nIn 1995, Renate Pillinger concluded from the evidence provided by images and buildings and by some literary sources that it was usual for the baptizand to stand in water no more than hip-deep and for the baptizer to pour water over him.\n\nWith regard to the shallow baptismal fonts that archaeologists had discovered, Malka Ben Pechat expressed in 1999 the view that full immersion was possible even in small fonts with a mere 60 centimetres (2 feet) of water, while the fonts that were even shallower were intended for the baptism of infants.\n\nIn the close of his comprehensive 2009 study, \"Baptism in the Early Church\", Everett Ferguson devoted four pages (457–60) to summarizing his position on the mode of baptism, expressed also in his \"The Church of Christ\" of 1996, that the normal early-Christian mode of baptism was by full immersion.\n\nHe observed that \"those who approach the study of baptism from the standpoint of archaeology tend to find greater probability that affusion, or perfusion was a normal practice; those who come from the literary evidence see a greater likelihood of immersion, or submersion, being the normal practice\"; but he intended his own comprehensive survey to give coherence to the evidence (p. 857). Ferguson dismissed Rogers' 1903 study as dated with regard to both the depictions of baptism and his survey of the baptismal fonts.\n\nLike Rice, whom he did not mention, Ferguson said that the size of the baptismal fonts was progressively reduced in connection with the prevalence of infant baptism, although there are a few cases where larger fonts are later than the smaller ones. Ferguson also stated: \"The predominant number of baptismal fonts permitted immersion, and many were so large as to defy any reason for their existence other than immersion\".\n\nRobin Jensen writes: \"Historians have sometimes assumed that baptism was usually accomplished by full immersion – or submersion – of the body (dunking). However, the archaeological and iconographic evidence is ambiguous on this point. Many – if not most – surviving baptismal fonts are too shallow to have allowed submersion. In addition, a significant number of depictions show baptismal water being poured over the candidate's head (affusion), either from a waterfall, an orb or some kind of liturgical vessel.\" \"Eerdman's Dictionary of the Bible\" also casts doubt on \"the usual assumption that all NT baptisms were by immersion\", stating that some early baptisteries were deep enough to stand in but not broad enough to lie down in, and mentioning that ancient representation of Christ at his baptism show him standing in waist-deep water. The immersion used by early Christians in baptizing \"need not have meant full submersion in the water\" and, while it may have been normal practice, it was not seen as a necessary mode of baptism, so that other modes also may have been used. Submersion, as opposed to partial immersion, may even have been a minority practice in early Christianity.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9560946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9560946", "title": "Cebu Declaration on East Asian Energy Security", "text": "Cebu Declaration on East Asian Energy Security\n\nThe Cebu Declaration on East Asian Energy Security was signed by 16 nations after a three-hour meeting of delegates at the East Asia Summit in Cebu on January 15, 2007. The countries have agreed to promote energy security and find energy alternatives to conventional fuels.\n\nThe Declaration lists a series of goals aimed at providing \"reliable, adequate and affordable\" energy supplies. It was signed by the 10 ASEAN members (Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Burma and Cambodia), as well as China, Japan, New Zealand, India, South Korea and Australia.\n\nThis was followed by the Singapore Declaration on Climate Change, Energy and the Environment at the Third EAS.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913520", "title": "Darwin IV", "text": "Darwin IV\n\nDarwin IV is a fictional planet and the subject of Wayne Barlowe's book \"Expedition\" and the television special, \"Alien Planet\", based on \"Expedition\". Although the details of the discovery and exploration of Darwin IV differ in the two presentations, both are essentially the same in their depiction of the planetary environment and its native life-forms, whose abundance and variety prompt the name Darwin.\n\nIn \"Alien Planet\", a more basic scenario is presented where a ship called the \"Von Braun\" is sent to explore an alien world outside the solar system. The \"Von Braun\" is sent to a binary star system about 6.5 light-years from Earth. At 20% of the speed of light (0.2c), it takes about 42.5 years to travel to this system. Upon arrival it goes into orbit around Darwin IV, the Von Braun deployed the Darwin Reconnaissance Orbiter to scan the planet from orbit. The Von Braun also dispatches three identically shaped lighter-than-air probes to the planet surface. These three probes are:\n\n\nIn both stories the low gravity and dense atmosphere allow for aerial organisms that would be impossible on Earth.\n\nThe binary star system best fitting the described one above is Luhman 16, a binary system of brown dwarfs 6.59 light-years away, though it is questionable whether a brown dwarf could actually support life. Additionally, \"Expedition\" and \"Alien Planet\" were both released several years before the discovery of Luhman 16.\n\nIt seems likely that Darwin IV was covered with large oceans a few million years ago, just like Earth. But because of important climatic changes, the oceans evaporated and most of the ocean water became part of the atmosphere of the planet. The continents are now mountain chains and plateaus, while the ocean floor has become a large, open plain of deserts and savannah. Thus, most of the creatures who now inhabit Darwin IV are descendants of land-dwelling animals\n\nThe dense atmosphere is full of clouds and meteorologic activity and the plains sometimes resemble \"weather oceans\". \nMost of the water is found in the atmosphere, but there are also millions of tons of frozen water in the regions of the poles, and big lakes and rivers where the 'pocket-forests' reside.\n\nIn the deepest part of the evaporated ocean basins, there is a \"lake\", the Amoebic Sea, composed of tons of microscopic creatures who have evolved to conserve the last of the remaining sea water inside their bodies in order to survive.\n\nThe continental plates are still moving, and the areas where they collide are full of earthquakes and volcanic activity, phenomena that remain mostly unseen on Earth since there they occur under the surface of the oceans.\n\nThe species on Darwin have all evolved sonar, echo-location using a variety of sounds as their primary sense, rather than perceiving light, as most animals on Earth do. Many have complicated cephalons to aid in this sense. The majority have also evolved biolights; but rather than communicating information in the visible light spectrum, biolights on Darwin IV function in the infrared range, as all Darwinian animals are quite sensitive to that spectrum. Their sensory organs to detect light in the infrared spectrum are more comparable to thermoreceptors found in pit vipers or rattlesnakes. The Rimerunner still has one bizarre, retractable, atrophying eye, a remnant from a time when sight-based organisms still had a place on Darwin IV. Also, most species are hermaphrodites.\n\nBelow is a list of the species found on Darwin IV.\n\nAll species in \"Alien Planet\" were mentioned or depicted in \"Expedition\"; however, it should be noted that the Electrophyte was only briefly depicted in the book and was only fully explained in \"Alien Planet\".\n\n\nIn his Expedition, Barlowe clearly states that he wanted to represent the most impressive, most appealing animals of the planet. There are millions of species who are not represented in detail, even though they have to be an essential part of Darwin IV's ecosystem. Barlowe refers to them as the 'microflyers', tiny animals and plants living in the atmosphere of the planet like plankton lives in the oceans of Earth.\nMost animals represented in both the book and the movie belong to one of two essential groups: the floaters and the ground-dwelling species.\nHowever, there is a great variety inside the landdweller family. While on Earth animals are classified by characteristics such as mode of reproduction and metabolism, the large Darwinian animals are classified by their number of limbs. There are four classes: quadrupedalians, tripedalians, bipedalians and monopedalians. However, sometimes it is difficult to say to which group an animal belongs. In fact many animals lose some of their limbs when they grow up, and thus \"change\" their classification. The forest slider, for instance, has four legs as a juvenile, but only two legs in its adult form.\nMost Floaters appear to have no limbs, but eosapiens seem to have evolved from bipedal ancestors for they still have two arms. However, these could as well be highly evolved appendages. \nMany unnamed creatures appear only in sketches.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36027701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36027701", "title": "Ecological assessment", "text": "Ecological assessment\n\nEcological assessment (EA) implies the monitoring of ecological resources, to discover the current and changing conditions. EAs are required components of most hazardous waste site investigations. Such assessments, in conjunction with contamination and human health risk assessments, help to evaluate the environmental hazards posed by contaminated sites and to determine remediation requirements.\n\nIn ecological assessment many abiotic and biotic indicators, reflecting the pluralistic components of ecosystems, are used. Reporting on the state of the environment requires that information on separate indicators are integrated into comprehensive yardsticks or indices. EA is extremely complex because of regional and temporal variation in vulnerability of ecosystems and because of limited understanding of ecosystem functioning and health.\n\nEcological indicators are able to\nIdeally the suite of indicators should represent key information about structure, function, and composition of the ecological system.\n\nIn general EA indicators can be divided into abiotic and biotic indicators. Due to the complexity of ecosystems and environmental processes, a set of indicators reflecting the many facets of ecosystems is needed. Chemical, physical, and biological indicators each have specific advantages and disadvantages for monitoring and assessment.\n\nAbiotic indicators, which may give information on the risks or threats from stressors to ecosystems are comparatively well correlated with sources of pollutants and disturbances but may not reflect ecological end points in themselves.\n\nBiotic indicators may reflect end points and may be used to differentiate \"healthy\" from \"sick\" ecosystems. Correlation of biotic indicators with sources of pollutants and other disturbances is relatively difficult due to the complexity of environmental processes and the multitude of potential stressors.\n\nCritical appraisal:\n\nStrategic ecological assessment (SEcA) is required to ensure that proposed new developments are compatible with international obligations to conserve protected habitats and their associated species. In common with all forms of Environmental Impact Assessment, the effectiveness of SEcA depends on the ability to define the proposed action or set of actions and to characterize the receiving environment (baseline conditions). The ability to quantify potential impacts and to estimate their risk of occurrence is strongly dependent on the\nof national data on the distributions of habitats, species and development proposals.\n\nThe U.S. Nature Conservancy has developed Rapid Ecological Assessment (REA), an integrated methodology to provide the multiple scale, up-to-date information required to guide conservation actions. REA relies on analysis of aerial photography, videography, and satellite image data to identify conservation sites and to direct field sampling and research for cost-effective biological and ecological data acquisitions.\n\nThe goal of EA is to understand the structure and function of ecosystems in order to develop improved management options. Furthermore, developing models to predict the response of ecosystems to changes contributes to finding a particular management strategy.\nThe results of the EA will be used to suggest possible improvements of the pollutant´s properties to reduce the potential environmental impacts.\n\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has set a definition for EA. Ecological assessment is a “qualitative or quantitative assessment of the actual or potential effects of a hazardous waste site on plants and animals other than people and domesticated species”. The methodologies used for EA noted down in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA)are only vaguely defined. As a result, assessment methods applied by both consultants and regulatory agencies range from qualitative approaches, such as listings of potential biotic receptors at a contaminated site, to fully quantitative approaches that include detailed exposure estimations, quantitative toxicity comparisons, and supplementary biota sampling to evaluate uptake estimates.\n\n"}
{"id": "590308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=590308", "title": "Eleanor F. Helin", "text": "Eleanor F. Helin\n\nEleanor Francis \"Glo\" Helin (née Francis, 19 November 1932 – 25 January 2009) was an American astronomer. She was principal investigator of the Near-Earth Asteroid Tracking (NEAT) program of NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory. (Some sources give her name as Eleanor Kay Helin.) She retired in 2002.\n\nHelin is a prolific discoverer of minor planets \"(see list)\" and several comets, including periodic comets 111P/Helin–Roman–Crockett, 117P/Helin–Roman–Alu and 132P/Helin–Roman–Alu. She is credited as the discoverer of the object now known as both asteroid 4015 Wilson–Harrington and comet 107P/Wilson–Harrington. Although Wilson and Harrington preceded her by some decades, their observations did not establish an orbit for the object, while her rediscovery did.\n\nHelin was active in planetary science and astronomy at the California Institute of Technology and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory for over three decades. In the early 1970s, she initiated the Palomar Planet-Crossing Asteroid Survey (PCAS) from Palomar Observatory. This program is responsible for the discovery of thousands of asteroids of all types including more than 200 in high inclination orbits, other asteroids in rare and unique types of orbits, 20 comets, and approximately 30 percent of the near-Earth asteroids discovered worldwide.\n\nHelin organized and coordinated the International Near-Earth Asteroid Survey (INAS) during the 1980s, encouraging and stimulating worldwide interest in asteroids. In recognition of her accomplishments, she received NASA's Exceptional Service Medal.\n\nAfter conducting the PCAS photographic search program from Palomar for nearly 25 years, Helin concentrated on the new, upgraded Near Earth Asteroid Tracking (NEAT) search program using electronic sensors on a large aperture telescope. She was the principal investigator for this program operating from JPL, for which she received the 1997 JPL Award for Excellence. She also received NASA's Group Achievement Award for the NEAT Team.\n\nIn operation since December 1995, NEAT is the first autonomous observing program; no JPL personnel are on-site, only the JPL Sunspark computer which runs the observing system through the night and transmits the data back to JPL each morning for team member review and confirmation. NEAT has detected over 26,000 objects, including 31 near-Earth asteroids, two long period comets and the unique object, 1996 PW, the most eccentric asteroid known (e = 0.99012940), which moves in a long-period (4110.50 a), comet-like orbit (semi-major axis 256.601 AU).\n\nCaltech Optical Observatories hosted a Helin Commemorative Workshop on 28 September 2010 to honour the contributions of Eleanor and Ronald Helin. Palomar Observatory opened an exhibit dedicated to her and her work with the 18-inch Schmidt telescope in September 2013.\n\nThe Mars-crossing asteroid 3267 Glo, discovered by Edward Bowell in 191, was named after her nickname. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 13 February 1987 ().\n\nHelin is credited by the Minor Planet Center with the discovery or co-discovered of more than 900 numbered minor planets, including the first two Aten asteroids: 2062 Aten and 2100 Ra-Shalom, which gave rise to this new orbital group of near-Earth objects.\n\nShe also discovered:\n\n"}
{"id": "40871379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40871379", "title": "Energy Reduction Assets", "text": "Energy Reduction Assets\n\nThe reduction of expected energy use is a potential revenue source that may be manipulated to improve business performance and reduce waste and environmental impacts. \nIn 2011, the World Economic Forum reported that personal, digital data is a new asset class, generating a new wave of opportunity for economic and societal value creation. Due to dramatic advances in web-based monitoring, real-time data analytics and utilities using peak pricing, energy reduction is now becoming a tangible asset that companies can measure, manage, procure and sell. \nFor energy reduction, capturing data is the means to tap into energy savings, which, over time, become an asset. In order to implement efficiency measures and generate revenue streams, it is important to determine areas of least efficiency. This will provide the platform for accurately focusing efforts to achieve the greatest returns on investment.\nEnergy Reduction Assets (ERAs) are revenue streams that are created by tracking the unspent portion of traditional energy usage.\n\nThere are two ways to generate an energy reduction asset: through an energy efficiency project or by participating in a demand response program. Energy efficiency results in long-term savings, while Demand Response programs produce immediate earnings/revenue streams. \n\nEnergy efficiency projects have proven to be valuable to organizations in cost savings, as well as in reducing the carbon footprint, conservation and other positive environmental impacts. Energy efficiency measures include building control upgrades, updating HVAC, lighting and mechanical systems that use less energy per unit of service they provide. Essentially, these measures aim to reduce the amount of energy needed to supply a particular service, which means less energy is used and less money is spent. Companies/consumers can use the money saved over time through energy efficiency, as assets to sell and invest in the market. \n\nDemand Response programs are similar to energy efficiency projects; however, they result in immediate short-term energy reduction, along with immediate earnings from the energy saved. Demand Response is the process of curtailing an energy load (load shedding) during peak energy demand hours. Historically, Demand Response has played a vital role in emergency situations that create an imbalance on the energy grid, resulting in power outages and extreme costs. In recent years however, the market for Demand Response has been transforming into a demand management system whereby automated energy management systems (known as Automated Demand Response) and market developments make it possible for companies to earn money for modifying their electricity usage year-round.\n\nThese “earnings” are the ERAs generated through reduced energy usage during peak demand hours. In essence, the market for demand response stems from the end users ability to “sell” the energy not used when they curtail usage—at the same prices as real megawatts of generated electricity. This process of selling a theoretical unit of power—the negawatt—that represents the amount of energy saved during a demand response program. When the electricity provider does not have to provide x amount of megawatts to their customer, then that customer essentially gets paid for that as if they sold it to someone else in the market. Thus, revenue streams are generated through this process of curtailing an energy load at peak demand hours.\n\nUtilizing new technologies to gather data and implement energy efficiency measures is key to generating ERAs. The environmental and economic benefits of reducing energy usage are becoming increasingly apparent throughout the country. Energy Service Companies (ESCOs) have grown the market for energy efficiency from $500 million in 1990 to over $5 billion in 2011. According to the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, revenues will continue to increase—doubling or even tripling to $15.3 billion by the end of the decade. These growing revenues are a significant representation of the improving energy efficiency market. However, energy efficiency remains critically underutilized in the nation’s energy portfolio. It is time to take advantage of the data and programs available to capture the savings that energy efficiency offers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33678141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33678141", "title": "Energy in Belarus", "text": "Energy in Belarus\n\nEnergy in Belarus describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in Belarus. Belarus is a net energy importer. According to IEA, the energy import exceeded the energy use in 2008. Primary energy use in Belarus was 327 TWh or 34 TWh per million persons in 2008.\n\nPrimary energy use per capita in Belarus in 2009 (34 MWh) was slightly more than in Portugal (26 MWh) and about half of the use in Belgium (64 MWh) or Sweden (62 MWh).\n\n"}
{"id": "45360584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45360584", "title": "Energy in Rwanda", "text": "Energy in Rwanda\n\nEnergy use in Rwanda is undergoing rapid change at the beginning of the 21st century. \n\nThe extent of grid electricity is limited and mainly concentrated near Kigali. Most of the country uses firewood as its main energy source. \nRwanda is planning to expand from 218 MW of grid power in 2018 to 586 MW in 2024 and may import as much some additional from neighboring countries. In addition, it is installing small solar units throughout the country to ensure electricity to buildings not connected to the national grid, or to help deal with power outages. Currently, the government plans to bring electricity access to 100% of the population by 2024, as opposed to 48.6% in 2018.\nWith its limited electrical infrastructure, Rwanda has a very high degree of renewable energy usage. Most of the country's electricity comes from hydropower. \nElectrical production accounted for 4% of energy use in the country in 2014, \n\n53% of electricity generated by hydropower. At the end of 2016, Rwanda's grid-connected power plants supplied 208MW.\n\nKivuWatt project is an energy project to extract natural gas dissolved in Lake Kivu and use the extracted gas to generate electricity. In 2016, the operational 25MW power plant is able to provide enough energy for 45,000 people in Rwanda. The ongoing expansion project is expected to add 26MW of generating capacity in its first phase, and eventually scale up to 100MW in the coming years.\nThe first utility-scale solar farm in Sub-Saharan Africa outside of South Africa is the 8.5MW plant at Agahozo-Shalom Youth Village, in the Rwamagana District, Eastern Province of Rwanda. It leased of land from the village which is a charity to house and educate Rwandan genocide victims. The plant uses 28,360 photovoltaic panels and produces 6% of total electrical supply of the country. The project was built with U.S., Israeli, Dutch, Norwegian, Finnish and UK funding and expertise.\nThe use of off-grid solar power has increased as solar panel prices have fallen and many areas do not expect grid connections in the near future. \nSolar power produces over 2% of electricity in the country. The country is in the midst of a rapid expansion of its electrical grid and many new plants are proposed or under construction.\nBiomass is the most important energy source utilized through firewood and agricultural waste for cooking. In 2014, this represented 85% of Rwanda's energy use. Peat from peat marshes in southwestern Rwanda will power two electrical plants. The first 15MW plant is expected online in 2015 with the second, a 80MW plant, expected in 2017.\nPetroleum, mainly for transportation, represented 11% of Rwanda's power in 2014. Although Rwanda is thought to have crude oil and natural gas reserves near Lake Kivu, as of 2014, there was no production of these resources and demand was met by imports. The Kenya–Uganda–Rwanda Petroleum Products Pipeline would transport oil between these countries if it is built.\n\n"}
{"id": "25582404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25582404", "title": "Franklin Large Igneous Province", "text": "Franklin Large Igneous Province\n\nThe Franklin Large Igneous Province is a Neoproterozoic large igneous province in the Canadian Arctic of Northern Canada. It represents one of the largest large igneous provinces in Canada, consisting of the Natkusiak flood basalts on Victoria Island, the Coronation sills on the southern shore of the Coronation Gulf and the large Franklin dike swarm, which extends for more than across the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and northwestern Greenland. The Franklin Large Igneous Province covers an area of more than .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11636461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11636461", "title": "Green Earth Sciences", "text": "Green Earth Sciences\n\nDedicated on October 21, 1993, the Cecil H. and Ida M. Green Earth Sciences Research Building at Stanford University houses classrooms, offices, and laboratories for research in the field of earth sciences. The building's extended basement contains the sunken Kresge Plaza, in which rock sculptures are designed to look like a miniature version of local geologic faults.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1225812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1225812", "title": "Hatchet (novel)", "text": "Hatchet (novel)\n\nHatchet is a 1987 Newbery Honor-winning young-adult wilderness survival novel written by American writer Gary Paulsen. It is the first novel of five in the \"Hatchet\" series.\n\nBrian Robeson is a thirteen-year-old son of divorced parents. As he travels from Hampton, New York on a Cessna 406 bush plane to visit his father in the oil fields in Northern Canada for the summer, the pilot suffers a massive heart attack and dies. Brian tries to land the plane, but ends up crash-landing into a lake in the forest. He must learn to survive on his own with nothing but his hatchet—a gift his mother gave him shortly before his plane departed.\n\nThroughout the summer, Brian learns how to survive in the vast wilderness with only his hatchet. He discovers how to make fire with the hatchet and eats whatever food he can find, such as rabbits, birds, turtle eggs, fish, berries, and fruit. He deals with various threats of nature, including mosquitos, a porcupine, bear, skunk, moose, wolves, and even a tornado. Over time, Brian develops his survival skills and becomes a fine woodsman. He crafts a bow, arrows, and a fishing spear to aid in his hunting. He also fashions a shelter out of the underside of a rock overhang. During his time alone, Brian struggles with memories of home and the bittersweet memory of his mother, whom Brian had caught cheating on his father prior to their divorce.\n\nWhen a sudden tornado hits the area, it draws the tail of the plane toward the shore of the lake. This triggers his thoughts that there may be a survival pack of some sorts on the plane. Brian makes a raft from a few broken off tree tops to get to the plane. When Brian is cutting his way into the tail of the plane, he drops his hatchet in the lake and dives in to get it. Once inside the plane, Brian finds a survival pack that includes additional food, an emergency transmitter, and a .22 AR-7 rifle. Back on shore, Brian activates the transmitter, but not knowing how to use it, he thinks it is broken and throws it aside. However, his distress call is heard by a passing airplane, and he is rescued. Brian spends the remainder of the summer with his father but does not disclose his mother's affair.\n\nA film adaptation titled \"A Cry in the Wild\" was released in 1990.\n\nPaulsen continued the story of Brian Robeson with four more novels, beginning with \"The River\" in 1991.\n\n\"Hatchet\" was a recipient of the 1988 Newbery Honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26401152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26401152", "title": "Head cut (stream geomorphology)", "text": "Head cut (stream geomorphology)\n\nHead cut, in stream geomorphology, is an erosional feature of some intermittent and perennial streams with an abrupt vertical drop, also known as a knickpoint, in the stream bed. The knickpoint, where a head cut begins, can be as small as an overly-steep riffle zone or as a large as a waterfall. When it is not flowing, the head cut will resemble a very short cliff or bluff. A small plunge pool may be present at the base of the head cut due to the high energy of falling water. As erosion of the knickpoint and the streambed continues, the head cut will migrate upstream.\n\nGroundwater seeps and springs are sometimes found along the face, sides, or base of a head cut.\n\nChannel incision is very common when head cuts are involved in stream morphology. In terms of stream restoration, head cuts are one of the most difficult challenges. Installing check dams or elevating the stream by filling the gully are common ways to mitigate up stream migration of the knickpoint. Another common way to control the knickpoint is by sloping the bank face by laying down fabric and rock.\n\n"}
{"id": "1372732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1372732", "title": "Instituto Butantan", "text": "Instituto Butantan\n\nInstituto Butantan (in modern Portuguese, Instituto Butantã, ) is a Brazilian biologic research center located in Butantã, in the western part of the city of São Paulo, Brazil. Instituto Butantan is a public institution affiliated with the São Paulo State Secretariat of Health and considered one of the major scientific centers in the world. Butantan is the largest immunobiologicals and biopharmaceuticals producer in Latin America (and one of the largest in the world). It is world-renowned for its collection of venomous snakes, as well as those of venomous lizards, spiders, insects and scorpions. By extracting the reptiles' and insects' venoms, the Institute develops antivenoms and medicines against many diseases, which include tuberculosis, rabies, tetanus and diphtheria.\n\nThe Institute was founded by the Brazilian physician and biomedical scientist Vital Brazil in 1901, according to Pasteur Institute paradigm, i.e., by combining in the same institution medical research, the transfer of the results to society as health products, and self-financing through this later activity. Its foundation was a reaction to the outbreak of bubonic plague in the city of Santos. It is internationally renowned for its research on venomous animals; it was visited by Theodore Roosevelt in 1912. It is also a state-supported producer of vaccines against many infectious diseases, such as rabies, hepatitis, botulism, tetanus, diphtheria, pertussis and tuberculosis, as well as polyvalent and monovalent antivenoms against the bites of snakes, lizards, bees, scorpions and spiders (which, historically were first developed in the beginning of the 20th century by Dr. Vital Brazil and his coworkers). Among the distinguished scientists at the institute were biochemists Karl Slotta and Heinz Fraenkel-Conrat, pioneers in the study of progesterone, estriol, and medical use of venom, from 1935 to 1948.\n\nA fire in 2010 destroyed the collection facility, which maintained one of the largest collections of venomous animals in the world, comprising around 80,000 snake specimens, and an estimated 450,000 spiders and scorpions.\n\nThe name of the institute comes from \"Butantã\", a district in the west zone of São Paulo. \"Butantã\" itself is a Tupi word meaning \"crushed soil\".\n\nThe Institute develops basic and applied biomedical research in many areas, including molecular biology, immunology and epidemiology and has a graduate research training program in collaboration with other institutions, in the areas of biotechnology and infectology. Besides its research laboratories, production units and specialized library, it operates an animal breeding center for providing subjects for research and production of sera. The Instituto Butantan also operate the \"Hospital Vital Brazil\", a specialist hospital that offers free treatment for poisonous animal stings and bites. The institute also accepts donations of serpents, arthropods and other animals captured by the public and by a network of collaborating centers and individuals.\n\nThe following research laboratories are part of the Butantan Institute:\n\nImportant Brazilian scientists who have worked in the Butantan Institute are: Vital Brazil, Afrânio Pompílio Gastos do Amaral, Isaias Raw, Samuel Pessoa, Willy Beçak. The Institute has strong collaborative ties with the Pasteur Institute, Paris, France, and with the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation, Rio de Janeiro.\n\nThe Butantan Institute is the largest producer in Latin America (and one of the largest in the world) of immunobiologicals and biopharmaceuticals. In 2001 it produced ca. doses of vaccines and vials of hyperimmune sera. The institute is responsible for the production of 90% of the vaccines used in Brazil. The institute contains a venom farm where researchers milk around a thousand snakes for their venom which is used to make antivenoms and for medical research.\n\nThe production units manufacture the following bioproducts:\n\n\n\n\nThe Butantan Institute is one of the major touristic and educational attractions in a vast park area in the city section of Butantã in São Paulo. It has a serpentarium, a historical museum, a biological museum, and a museum of microbiology. The venom farm is a major attraction and visitors can see the snakes housed in representations of their natural environments. The park also contains rare tree types.\n\nThe Fundação Butantan is a non-profit corporation established in 1984 to use more efficiently public funds and capital investments made by the Ministry of Health for the production of immunobiologicals. The Foundation reinvests part of the proceeds to build new facilities for new products. Part of the funds are used in the Institute for research and cultural activities, as well as to provide its workers with meals and basic food supplies.\n\nOn May 15, 2010, a fire almost burned down the laboratory and destroyed the Institute's entire collection of snake specimens (approximately 85,000 specimens preserved with formaldehyde and stored in 70% ethanol) and ca. 450,000–500,000 specimens of scorpions and spiders (also stored in ethanol). It was one of the largest collections of snakes in the world. Over 90 years of research were lost.\n\nThe fire started at and was brought under control by a crew of 50 firemen an hour and a half later. News reports have claimed that the facility was not prepared for a fire, not having a fire alarm or sprinkler system. Police are investigating the fire which has been described by curator Francisco Franco as \"a loss for humanity\". None of the live animals or people at the institute was harmed by the fire.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15966863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15966863", "title": "Journal of Soil and Water Conservation", "text": "Journal of Soil and Water Conservation\n\nThe Journal of Soil and Water Conservation is a bimonthly peer-reviewed journal of conservation science, practice, and policy. The journal is published by the Soil and Water Conservation Society. \n"}
{"id": "5865660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5865660", "title": "List of Ctenidae species", "text": "List of Ctenidae species\n\nThis page lists all described species of the spider family Ctenidae as of Dec. 22, 2016.\n\n\"Acantheis\" \n\n\"Acanthoctenus\" \n\n\"Africactenus\" \n\n\"Afroneutria\" \n\n\"Amauropelma\" \n\n\"Anahita\" \n\n\"Ancylometes\" \n\n\"Apolania\" \n\n\"Arctenus\" \n\n\"Asthenoctenus\" \n\n\"Bengalla\" \n\n\"Califorctenus\" \n\n\"Caloctenus\" \n\n\"Celaetycheus\" \n\n\"Centroctenus\" \n\n\"Chococtenus\" \n\n\"Ciba\" \n\n\"Ctenus\" \n\n\"Cupiennius\" \n\n\"Diallomus\" \n\n\"Enoploctenus\" \n\n\"Gephyroctenus\" \n\n\"Incasoctenus\" \n\n\"Isoctenus\" \n\n\"Janusia\" \n\n\"Leptoctenus\" \n\n\"Mahafalytenus\" \n\n\"Montescueia\" \n\n\"Nothroctenus\" \n\n\"Ohvida\" \n\n\"Parabatinga\" \n\n\"Petaloctenus\" \n\n\"Phoneutria\" \n\n\"Phymatoctenus\" \n\n\"Sinoctenus\" \n\n\"Thoriosa\" \n\n\"Toca\" \n\n\"Trogloctenus\" \n\n\"Trujillina\" \n\n\"Tuticanus\" \n\n\"Viracucha\" \n\n\"Wiedenmeyeria\" \n\n"}
{"id": "2969862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2969862", "title": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on hazels", "text": "List of Lepidoptera that feed on hazels\n\nHazelnuts (\"Corylus\" species) are used as food plants by the caterpillars of several Lepidoptera species including:\n\nSpecies which feed exclusively on \"Corylus\":\n\n\nSpecies which feed on \"Corylus\" among other plants:\n\n\n\"Search Results - Hostplant Genus: \"Corylus\"\" at \"HOSTS - a Database of the World's Lepidopteran Hostplants\" of the Natural History Museum, London. Retrieved 8 October 2017.\n"}
{"id": "28254962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28254962", "title": "List of Mount Hood glaciers", "text": "List of Mount Hood glaciers\n\nThe twelve glaciers on Mount Hood are:\n"}
{"id": "1869486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1869486", "title": "List of generating stations in Canada", "text": "List of generating stations in Canada\n\nThe following page lists the largest electrical generating stations in Canada. \n\nList of the 100 largest electrical generating facilities in Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "42200242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42200242", "title": "List of invasive plant species in Florida", "text": "List of invasive plant species in Florida\n\nNumerous variety of plants have been introduced to Florida, and many of them have become invasive species.\n\nThe following are some of the plant species considered invasive in Florida:\n\nThe species below are cryptogenic, of indeterminate native or non-native origin in Florida:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38557155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38557155", "title": "List of nature centers in Alabama", "text": "List of nature centers in Alabama\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of Alabama. \n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27820737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27820737", "title": "List of rivers of East Timor", "text": "List of rivers of East Timor\n\nThis is a list of rivers in East Timor. The list is arranged by drainage basin from west to east, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16721058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16721058", "title": "Lourdes water", "text": "Lourdes water\n\nLourdes water is water which flows from a spring in the Grotto of Massabielle in the Sanctuary of Our Lady of Lourdes, France. The location of the spring was described to Bernadette Soubirous by an apparition of Our Lady of Lourdes on 25 February 1858. Since that time many thousands of pilgrims to Lourdes have followed the instruction of Our Lady of Lourdes to \"drink at the spring and bathe in it\". Lourdes water is considered non-liturgical holy water.\n\nAlthough never formally encouraged by the Church, Lourdes water has become a focus of devotion to the Virgin Mary at Lourdes. Since the supposed apparitions, many people have claimed to have been cured by drinking or bathing in it, and the Lourdes authorities provide it free of charge to any who ask for it. \n\nAn analysis of the water was commissioned by Anselme Lacadé in 1858. It was conducted by a professor in Toulouse, who determined that the water was potable and that it contained the following: oxygen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, carbonates of lime and magnesia, a trace of carbonate of iron, an alkaline carbonate or silicate, chlorides of potassium and sodium, traces of sulphates of potassium and soda, traces of ammonia, and traces of iodine. Essentially, the water is quite pure and inert. Lacadé had hoped that Lourdes water might have special mineral properties which would allow him to develop Lourdes into a spa town, to compete with neighbouring Cauterets and Bagnères-de-Bigorre.\n\nPrimitive makeshift bathing installations were constructed in the 1850s by local builders. Until 1880 there were only two pools, filled by a manual pump. In 1880, a wooden bathing-house containing fourteen pools (\"piscines\") was constructed.\n\nThe French author Émile Zola visited the Sanctuary in 1891 and again in 1892. He wrote:\n\nDuring the 1897 Jubilee Pilgrimage to Lourdes, priest François Picard was thirsty after a long day. Rather than drinking fresh water, he asked an assistant to fill his glass from a bathing pool, heavily contaminated from the sick pilgrims who had been immersed in it. \"When the father had received [the water], he made the sign of the cross and drank slowly, right to the end. Then, he gave back the glass and concluded with a smile: \"The water of the good Mother of Heaven is always delicious.\"\n\nThe next set of \"piscines\" was completed in 1891, and tiled in the Virgin's blue. This building was located near to where the water taps are now and can be seen on old photographs of the Domain.\n\nThe current baths were constructed in 1955, and upgraded in 1972 and 1980. There are seventeen separate bath cubicles, eleven for women and six for men. Each year about 350,000 people use the baths.\n\nThe water is not heated and is usually cold; the temperature is around 12 °C (54 °F). The immersion lasts around a minute, during which time prayers are recited and veneration of a statue of the Virgin is encouraged. Able-bodied pilgrims are aided by one or two volunteer attendants, but immobile pilgrims sometimes require much more physical help. The water in each bath is constantly being topped up and refreshed via a pump. It is now constantly circulated and purified by irradiation.\n\nLourdes water flows from a spring in the Grotto at the same spot where it was discovered by Bernadette. At maximum, the water flows at 40 litres per minute. The water is collected in a cistern, and dispensed via a system of taps near the shrine, where pilgrims may drink it or collect it in bottles or other containers to take with them. The original spring can be seen within the Grotto, lit from below, and protected by a glass screen.\n\nOver the last few years the system of taps has been progressively altered. As of 2008, water is dispensed from a series of taps set into stone in a circle around the base of one of the smaller towers of the Upper Basilica.\n\nIn 2002 the Water Walk was introduced, across the Gave and slightly downstream from the Grotto. It consists of a series of nine stations at which there is a small Lourdes water font. The stations form a walkway along the Gave which can be followed in either direction. As they walk, pilgrims are invited to wash or drink, and meditate on passages from the Bible. Each station carries one of the titles of the Virgin Mary, such as \"Queen of the Apostles\", \"Mother of Good Counsel\", and \"Our Lady of Light\".\n\nTraditionally, pilgrims collect gallons of water at the taps to be given to family and friends unable to make the trip to Lourdes. As of summer 2007, Mistral Air passengers on pilgrimage to Lourdes were forbidden to bring containers of water on the plane. Officials at Tarbes Airport said this was in keeping with new anti-terrorism regulations about liquids following the 2006 transatlantic aircraft plot.\n\nMany believers experience Lourdes water as helping to improve their health, but there is a risk that sick people may stop taking scientifically based treatments if they have too much confidence in placebos. Saint Bernadette herself said that people were healed by their faith and prayers. \n\n"}
{"id": "52810358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52810358", "title": "M Velorum", "text": "M Velorum\n\nThe Bayer designations m Velorum and M Velorum are distinct. Due to , both designations link here. For the star\n"}
{"id": "9894678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9894678", "title": "Machlett Laboratories", "text": "Machlett Laboratories\n\nMachlett Laboratories was a Northeastern United States-based company that manufactured X-ray and high-power vacuum tubes. Machlett was a large producer of the tubes and developed accessories to be used with them as well.\n\nFor its contributions to World War II efforts, the US government gave it an \"E\" award in 1945. The company was bought by Varian in 1989.\n\nThe company began as E. Machlett and Son, which was founded in 1897 in New York City, United States as scientific glass makers.\n\nMachlett Laboratories was created from E. Machlett & Sons in order to exploit the then new technology of X-rays. They made X-ray tubes from the beginning to 1989 when they were bought by Varian. In addition to making X-ray tubes, they manufactured high-power vacuum tubes for use in radio and TV broadcasting (857B mercury-vapor half-wave rectifier tube) and for industrial induction heating. Those two sides of the business were about equivalent for most of the life of the company.\n\nMachlett Laboratories, Inc. was established on Hope Street and Camp Avenue in 1934. This manufacturing operation began making X-ray tubes and became the largest producer of its kind in the world. Raymond was president of the company, founded by his father Robert, a scientist who made the first practical X-ray tube in America and devoted his life to making it safe and successful in the field of medicine. Robert Machlett associated with Madame Curie and other leading roentgenologists to make this happen.\n\nThey moved to 1063 Hope St. in Stamford, Connecticut, in the early 20th century, and remained there. Among their achievements was a counter made by them for Irene and Frederic Joliot-Curie for use in their experiments on artificial radioactivity in 1934 which is currently contained in the Science Museum in Great Britain. They were given an “E” award by the US government in 1945 for their contribution to the war effort.\n\nMachlett was well known for its rather complete line of transmitting tubes, most particularly triodes.\n\nFor quite a while, Machlett's 6697s were the most-used Class B modulator tubes (as a push-pull pair) and Class C final tubes (as a single-ended pair) in 50,000-watt plate-modulated AM transmitters.\n\nIn a classical Doherty amplifier (a Class B \"carrier\" tube and a Class C \"peak\" tube), 50,000 watts could be achieved using only two 6697s, but the drive requirement was about 5,000 watts, so the driver was often a complete 5,000-watt transmitter. The driver power could be \"passed through\" (i.e., was not dissipated as heat) if the carrier tube was operated with a grounded grid and, as before, the peak tube was operated with a grounded cathode.\n\nLater, chief competitor Eimac released tetrodes which rather quickly eclipsed Machlett's triodes, as tetrodes have higher gain (thereby requiring much lower driver power, usually about 1,000 watts for 50,000 watts out), and do not require \"neutralization\". And tetrodes can be screen-grid modulated, especially in a Sainton-modified Doherty amplifier, where both the \"carrier\" and \"peak\" tubes may be operated in Class C.\n\n6697s were also employed in RCA's upgraded Ampliphase transmitter, the BTA-50H.\n\nCPI's Econo division remanufactures Eimac and Machlett power tubes.\n\nThey were the first company to utilize the concept of the rotating anode, something which is just about universal in medical X-ray systems at this date. Towards the end of the time of manufacture, they were producing oil-circulating X-ray tubes with a heat exchanger attached (for use with computed tomography (CT) scanners), with 5-inch diameter rotating anodes formed from tungsten-rhenium alloy and molybdenum, with a large mass of graphite attached to act as a heat sink. Smaller tubes without graphite heat sinks had highly radiative coatings to disperse the generated heat into the oil surrounding the tube itself.\n\nThe manufacture of X-ray tubes was licensed to two other companies, GEC Medical and Comet SA of Bern in Switzerland.\n\nThe Machlett X-ray tube was produced to ‘provide electrostatic protection for the filament (cathode) so as to permit long life to be achieved at operating voltages in the range 100-300 kV’ i .\nThe X-ray tube was designed and manufactured by E. Machlett & Son who were specialists in scientific glass instruments. The American company, which was established in New York 1897, began as a single shop and soon grew into an internationally recognized firm. The Machlett X-ray tube was patented in April 1934; one of its tubes, at the University of Melbourne's School of Physics, is from 1937. These X-ray tubes may have been used by Professor T.H Laby’s X-ray group, which was a priority research topic there. This interest was sparked by the appointment in 1889 of Professor T. R. Lyle. Lyle, who was head of the school until 1915, is thought to have been the first person in Australia to have taken an X-ray photograph iii. A photocopy of this photograph can be found in the School of Physics Archive. For this particular experiment, Lyle actually made his own x-ray tube. His successor, Laby, continued to work with X-rays. During the 1920s he worked on the X-ray spectra of atoms and in 1930 he, along with Dr C. E. Eddy, published \"Quantitative Analysis by X-Ray Spectroscopy\" iv . Also with Eddy Laby produced the paper \"Sensitivity of Atomic Analysis by X-rays\". Laby went on to have an X-ray spectrograph of his own design manufactured by Adam Hilger Ltd.\n\nAs well as X-ray tubes, they manufactured collimators – to define the beam size – and three marks of “Dynalyser” – an invasive instrument for measuring all the important parameters in an X-ray tube. This consisted of an HV unit insulated with SF, and an indicating unit. A separate radiation monitor could be used with this, and an oscilloscope could also be attached to this device if desired. Some 2,500 of the most recent version were sold, and this device survived the sale of the company to Varian and later buyers, being in production from the early 1980s to around 1995.\n\nThere were three generations of the Dynalyzer produced. Maintenance on the Dynalyzer is available by its inventor, Dr. Jon Shapiro, at http://giciman.com\n\n"}
{"id": "41730586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41730586", "title": "Map matching", "text": "Map matching\n\nMap matching is the problem of how to match recorded geographic coordinates to a logical model of the real world, typically using some form of Geographic Information System. The most common approach is to take recorded, serial location points (e.g. from GPS) and relate them to edges in an existing street graph (network), usually in a sorted list representing the travel of a user or vehicle. Matching observations to a logical model in this way has applications in satellite navigation, GPS tracking of freight, and transportation engineering.\n\nMap matching algorithms can be divided in real-time and offline algorithms. Real-time algorithms associate the position during the recording process to the road network. Offline algorithms are used after the data is recorded and are then matched to the road network. Real-time applications can only calculate based upon the points prior to a given time (as opposed to those of a whole journey), but are intended to be used in 'live' environments. This brings a compromise of performance over accuracy. Offline applications can consider all points and so can tolerate slower performance in favour of accuracy.\n\nUses for map-matching algorithms range from the immediate and practical, such as applications designed for guiding travellers, to the analytical, such as generating detailed inputs for traffic analysis models and the like.\n\nProbably the most common use of map-matching is where a traveller has some mobile computer giving him or her directions across a street network. In order to give accurate directions, the device must know exactly where in the street network the user is. A GPS location has positional error though, so picking the nearest street segment and routing from there will likely not work. Instead, the history of locations reported by the GPS can be used to guess a plausible route and infer the current location more accurately.\n\nOther uses, more analytical in nature, include:\n\nThere are other examples and this subject is still undergoing active research and development.\n\nMap matching is implemented in a variety of programs, including the open-source GraphHopper and Open Source Routing Machine routing engines. It is also included in a variety of proprietary programs and mapping/routing applications.\n"}
{"id": "48641304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48641304", "title": "Marcia Bonta", "text": "Marcia Bonta\n\nMarcia Bonta (born 1940) is an American naturalist and writer, known for her extensive writings about Pennsylvanian flora and fauna.\n\nMarcia Bonta was born on July 11, 1940 in Camden, New Jersey. She earned a BA degree from Bucknell University in 1962, and has done extensive research on the history of women naturalists. She is the author of more than 300 articles and a long-running column in the \"Pennsylvania Game News\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10066930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10066930", "title": "Mark Diesendorf", "text": "Mark Diesendorf\n\nMark Diesendorf is an Australian academic and environmentalist, known for his work in sustainable development and renewable energy. He currently teaches environmental studies at the University of New South Wales (UNSW), Australia. He was formerly professor of environmental science and founding director of the Institute for Sustainable Futures at the University of Technology, Sydney and before that a principal research scientist with CSIRO, where he was involved in early research on integrating wind power into electricity grids. His most recent book is \"Sustainable Energy Solutions for Climate Change\".\n\nDiesendorf is the son of the engineer Walter Diesendorf and the poet Margaret Diesendorf. His PhD research was focused on applied mathematics and theoretical physics applied to the solar interior. His early postdoctoral research was diverse, including the analysis of ground and satellite data on VLF emissions, mechanisms of insect smell and vision, and biological catalysts. From 1975 to 1985 he worked in the CSIRO Division of Mathematics, the Australian national research organisation, on topics such as the integration of wind power into electricity grids. He became a principal research scientist and leader of the Applied Mathematics group in CSIRO. He left CSIRO in 1985 after the organisation had terminated all research on renewable energy. From 1996 to 2001 he was Professor of Environmental Science and Founding Director of the Institute for Sustainable Futures at UTS and then director of a company Sustainability Centre Pty Ltd.\n\nFrom 2004 to 2016, Diesendorf has been a Senior Lecturer and then Associate Professor and Deputy Director of the Institute of Environmental Studies at the University of NSW, now called UNSW Australia. In 2015 IES was abolished by the university and Diesendorf retired (nominally) in mid-2016 to become Honorary Associate Professor at UNSW. He continues to teach (as a guest lecturer), research and consult in the interdisciplinary fields of sustainable energy, sustainable urban transport, theory of sustainability, ecological economics, and practical processes by which government, business and other organisations can achieve ecologically sustainable and socially just development.\n\nBased on his belief that science, technology and economics should serve the community at large, Dr Diesendorf has been at various times the Secretary of the Society for Social Responsibility in Science (Australian Capital Territory), President of the Australia New Zealand Society for Ecological Economics, co-founder and Vice-President of the Sustainable Energy Industries Council of Australia, and co-founder and President of the original Australasian Wind Energy Association.\n\nMuch of his recent and current research is on climate mitigation, especially transitioning electricity supply systems to 100% renewable energy. To this end he is involved with colleagues in the Centre for Energy & Environmental Markets at UNSW in scenario development, computer simulation modelling and energy policy. Previously Dr Diesendorf was one of the leading proponents calling for the ethical, scientific debate over public water fluoridation. On this issue Diesendorf has authored several papers, including a major 1986 article entitled \"The mystery of declining tooth decay\" in the journal \"Nature,\" examining the need for a scientific re-evaluation of fluoridation, and has highlighted some of the contrary evidence.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10185698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10185698", "title": "Nanogeoscience", "text": "Nanogeoscience\n\nNanogeoscience is the study of nanoscale phenomena related to geological systems. Predominantly, this is interrogated by studying environmental nanoparticles between 1-100 nanometers in size. Other applicable fields of study include studying materials with at least one dimension restricted to the nanoscale (e.g. thin films, confined fluids) and the transfer of energy, electrons, protons, and matter across environmental interfaces.\n\nAs more dust enters the atmosphere due to the consequences of human activity (from direct effects, such as clearing of land and desertification, versus indirect effects, such as global warming), it becomes more important to understand the effects of mineral dust on the gaseous composition of the atmosphere, cloud formation conditions, and global-mean radiative forcing (i.e., heating or cooling effects).\n\nOceanographers generally study particles that measure 0.2 micrometres and larger, which means a lot of nanoscale particles are not examined, particularly with respect to formation mechanisms.\n\n\nAlthough by no means developed, nearly all aspects (both geo- and bioprocesses) of weathering, soil, and water–rock interaction science are inexorably linked to nanoscience. Within the Earth's near-surface, materials that are broken down, as well as materials that are produced, are often in the nanoscale regime. Further, as organic molecules, simple and complex, as well as bacteria and all flora and fauna in soils and rocks interact with the mineral components present, nanodimensions and nanoscale processes are the order of the day.\n\n\nOn land, researchers study how nanosized minerals capture toxins such as arsenic, copper, and lead from the soil. Facilitating this process, called soil remediation, is a tricky business.\n\nNanogeoscience is in a relatively early stage of development. The future directions of nanoscience in the geosciences will include a determination of the identity, distribution, and unusual chemical properties of nanosized particles and/or films in the oceans, on the continents, and in the atmosphere, and how they drive Earth processes in unexpected ways. Further, nanotechnology will be the key to developing the next generation of Earth and environmental sensing systems.\n\nNanogeoscience deals with structures, properties and behaviors of nanoparticles in soils, aquatic systems and atmospheres. One of the key features of nanoparticles is the size-dependence of the nanoparticle stability and reactivity. This arises from the large specific surface area and differences in surface atomic structure of nanoparticles at small particle sizes. In general, the free energy of nanoparticles is inversely proportional to their particle size. For materials that can adopt two or more structures, size-dependent free energy may result in phase stability crossover at certain sizes. Free energy reduction drives crystal growth (atom-by-atom or by oriented attachment ), which may again drive the phase transformation due to the change of the relative phase stability at increasing sizes. These processes impact the surface reactivity and mobility of nanoparticles in natural systems.\n\nWell-identified size-dependent phenomena of nanoparticles include\n\n\nThese size-dependent properties highlight the importance of the particle size in nanoparticle stability and reactivity.\n\nNanogeoscience research groups:\n"}
{"id": "1347560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1347560", "title": "Nature Detectives", "text": "Nature Detectives\n\nNature Detectives is an online phenology research and education project for 4–18-year-olds in the UK. It is run by the Woodland Trust, as part of the UK Phenology Network.\n\nParticipants record the dates they see seasonal events, such as leafing, flowering, bird migration, nesting or fruit ripening in their own recording form on the website. The data they collect is fed into the UKPN national database, which has over 11,000 contributors and now contains over one million records.\n\nThe project monitors the activity of birds, insects, amphibians, grasses, fungi, flowers and trees, all of which are being affected by climate change. There is also information on phenology, climate change and \"doing your bit for the environment\".\n\nSchools, youth groups, families and individuals all take part, and it is proving a great way to involve children in the natural world and teach them about plants and wildlife and environmental issues.\n\n"}
{"id": "619633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=619633", "title": "Nerthus", "text": "Nerthus\n\nIn Germanic paganism, Nerthus is a goddess associated with fertility. Nerthus is attested by first century AD Roman historian Tacitus in his ethnographic work \"Germania\".\n\nIn \"Germania\", Tacitus records that the remote Suebi tribes were united by their veneration of the goddess at his time of writing and maintained a sacred grove on an (unspecified) island and that a holy cart rests there draped with cloth, which only a priest may touch. The priests feel her presence by the cart, and, with deep reverence, attend her cart, which is drawn by heifers. Everywhere the goddess then deigns to visit, she is met with celebration, hospitality, and peace. All iron objects are locked away, and no one will leave for war. When the goddess has had her fill she is returned to her temple by the priests. Tacitus adds that the goddess, the cart, and the cloth are then washed by slaves in a secluded lake. The slaves are then drowned.\n\nThe name \"Nerthus\" is generally held to be a Latinized form of Proto-Germanic *Nerþuz, a direct precursor to the Old Norse deity name \"Njörðr\". While scholars have noted numerous parallels between the descriptions of the two figures, Njörðr is attested as a male deity. Various scholarly theories exist regarding the goddess and her potential later traces amongst the Germanic peoples, including that the figure may be identical to the unnamed sister-wife of Njörðr mentioned in two Old Norse sources.\n\nNerthus is often identified with the van Njörðr who is attested in various 13th century Old Norse works and in numerous Scandinavian place names. The connection between the two is due to the linguistic relationship between \"Njörðr\" and the reconstructed Proto-Germanic \"*Nerþuz\", \"Nerthus\" being the feminine, Latinized form of what \"Njörðr\" would have looked like around the first century. This has led to theories about the relation of the two, including that Njörðr may have once been a hermaphroditic deity or that the name may indicate the otherwise forgotten sister-wife in a divine brother-sister pair like the Vanir deities Freyja and Freyr.\n\nWhile developments in historical linguistics ultimately allowed for the identification of \"Nerthus\" with \"Njörðr\", various other readings of the name were in currency prior to the acceptance of this identification, most commonly the form \"Hertha\". This form was proposed as an attempt to mirror the Old Norse goddess name \"Jörð\" 'earth'. Writing on this topic in 1912, Raymond Wilson Chambers says \"strange has been the history of this goddess Nerthus in modern times. Sixteenth century scholars found irresistible the temptation to emend the name of 'Mother Earth' into \"Herthum\", which nineteenth century scholars further improved into \"Hertham\", \"Ertham\". For many years this false goddess drove out the rightful deity from the fortieth chapter of the \"Germania\"\".\nUp until its superseding, the name \"Hertha\" had some influence. For example, \"Hertha\" and \"Herthasee\" (see \"location\" section below) play major roles in German novelist Theodor Fontane's 1896 novel \"Effi Briest\".\n\nIn chapter 40 of his \"Germania\", Roman historian Tacitus, discussing the Suebian tribes of Germania, writes that beside the populous Semnones and warlike Langobardi there are seven remoter Suebian tribes; the Reudigni, Aviones, Anglii, Varini, Eudoses, Suarines, and Nuitones. The seven tribes are surrounded by rivers and forests and, according to Tacitus, there is nothing particularly worthy of comment about them as individuals, yet they are particularly distinguished in that they all worship the goddess Nerthus, and provides an account of veneration of the goddess among the groups. The chapter reads as follows:\n\nA number of theories have been proposed regarding the figure of Nerthus, including the location of the events described, relations to other known deities and her role amongst the Germanic tribes.\n\nA number of scholars have proposed a potential location of Tacitus's account of Nerthus as on the island of Zealand in Denmark. The reasoning behind this notion is the linking of the name Nerthus with the medieval place name \"Niartharum\" (modern Nærum) located on Zealand. Further justification is given in that Lejre, the seat of the ancient kings of Denmark, is also located on Zealand. Nerthus is then commonly compared to the goddess Gefjon, who is said to have plowed the island of Zealand from Sweden in the \"Prose Edda\" book \"Gylfaginning\" and in Lejre wed the legendary Danish king Skjöldr.\n\nChambers notes that the mistaken name \"Hertha\" (see \"Interpretations of name\" above) led to the hydronym \"Herthasee\", a lake on the German island of Rügen, which antiquarians proposed as a potential location of the Nerthus site described in Tacitus. However, along with the rejection of the reading \"Hertha\", the location is now no longer considered as a potential site.\n\nNerthus typically is identified as a Vanir goddess. Her wagon tour has been likened to several archeological wagon finds and legends of deities parading in wagons. Terry Gunnell and many others have noted various archaeological finds of ritual wagons in Denmark dating from 200 AD and the Bronze Age. Such a ceremonial wagon, incapable of making turns, was discovered in the Oseberg ship find. Two of the most famous literary examples occur in the Icelandic family sagas. The Vanir god Freyr is said to ride in a wagon annually through the country accompanied by a priestess to bless the fields, according to a late story titled \"Hauks þáttr hábrókar\" in the 14th century \"Flateyjarbók\" manuscript. In the same source, King Eric of Sweden is said to consult a god named Lýtir, whose wagon was brought to his hall in order to perform a divination ceremony.\n\nHilda Davidson draws a parallel between these incidents and Tacitus's account of Nerthus, suggesting that in addition a neck-ring-wearing female figure \"kneeling as if to drive a chariot\" also dates from the Bronze Age. Davidson says that the evidence suggests that similar customs as detailed in Tacitus's account continued to exist during the close of the pagan period through worship of the Vanir.\n\nThe minor planet 601 Nerthus is named after Nerthus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46923835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46923835", "title": "Oil discharge monitoring equipment", "text": "Oil discharge monitoring equipment\n\nOil discharge monitoring equipment (ODME) is based on a measurement of oil content in the ballast and slop water, to measure conformance with regulations. The apparatus is equipped with a GPS, data recording functionality, an oil content meter and a flow meter. By use of data interpretation, a computing unit will be able to allow the discharge to continue or it will stop it using a valve outside the deck.\n\nA sample point on the discharge line allows for the analyzer to determine the oil content of the ballast now and slop water in PPM. The analyzer is self-maintaining by periodical cleansings with fresh water, and therefore requires a minimum of active maintenance from the crew. The results of the analyzer are sent to a computer, which determines whether the oil content values are to result in overboard discharge or not. The valves that direct the ballast water either over board or to slop tank are controlled by the integrated computer, and a GPS signal further automates the process by including special areas and completes the required input for the Oil Record Book.\n\nAll oil tankers with a gross tonnage of larger than 150 must have efficient Oil Discharge Monitoring Equipment on board.\n\nThe oily discharge is sent out to sea through a pump. The oily mixture has to pass through a series of sensors to determine whether it is acceptable to be sent to the discharge pipe.\n\nBased on regulations, the following values must be recorded by the system:\nAll records of Oil Detection Monitoring Equipment must be stored on board ships for no less than 3 years.\n\nOil Discharge Monitoring systems today consist of a computing unit that is installed in the cargo control room. The computer unit control and receives data from other ODME components.\n\nODME systems also have an analyzing unit that contains the Oil content meter, a fresh water valve for cleaning purposes, and a pressure transmitter that monitors the sample flow through the measuring cell.\n"}
{"id": "541808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541808", "title": "Paddy field", "text": "Paddy field\n\nA paddy field is a flooded parcel of arable land used for growing semiaquatic rice. Paddy cultivation should not be confused with cultivation of deepwater rice, which is grown in flooded conditions with water more than 50 cm (20 in) deep for at least a month. Genetic evidence shows that all forms of paddy rice, both \"indica\" and \"japonica\", spring from a domestication of the wild rice \"Oryza rufipogon\" that first occurred 8,200–13,500 years ago South of the Yangtze River in present-day China. However, the domesticated \"indica\" subspecies currently appears to be a product of the introgression of favorable alleles from \"japonica\" at a later date, so that there are possibly several events of cultivation and domestication. Paddy fields are the typical feature of rice farming in east, south and southeast Asia. Fields can be built into steep hillsides as terraces and adjacent to depressed or steeply sloped features such as rivers or marshes. They can require a great deal of labor and materials to create, and need large quantities of water for irrigation. Oxen and water buffalo, adapted for life in wetlands, are important working animals used extensively in paddy field farming.\n\nDuring the 20th century, paddy-field farming became the dominant form of growing rice. Hill tribes of Thailand still cultivate dry-soil varieties called upland rice. Paddy field farming is practiced in Asia, namely in Cambodia, Bangladesh, China, Taiwan, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, North Korea, South Korea, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Vietnam, and Laos, and in Europe, Northern Italy, the Camargue in France, and in Spain, particularly in the Albufera de València wetlands in the Valencian Community, the Ebro Delta in Catalonia and the Guadalquivir wetlands in Andalusia, as well as along the eastern coast of Brazil, the Artibonite Valley in Haiti, and Sacramento Valley in California, among other places. Paddy fields are a major source of atmospheric methane and have been estimated to contribute in the range of 50 to 100 million tonnes of the gas per annum.\nStudies have shown that this can be significantly reduced while also boosting crop yield by draining the paddies to allow the soil to aerate to interrupt methane production. Studies have also shown the variability in assessment of methane emission using local, regional and global factors and calling for better inventorisation based on micro level data.\n\nThe word \"paddy\" is derived from the Malay word \"padi\", rice plant.\n\nArchaeologists generally accept that wet-field cultivation originated in China. The earliest paddy field found dates to 4330 BC, based on carbon dating of grains of rice and soil organic matter found at the Chaodun site in Kunshan County. At Caoxieshan, a site of the Neolithic Majiabang culture, archaeologists excavated paddy fields. Some archaeologists claim that Caoxieshan may date to 4000–3000 BC. There is archaeological evidence that unhusked rice was stored for the military and for burial with the deceased from the Neolithic period to the Han Dynasty in China.\n\nThere are ten archaeologically excavated rice paddy fields in Korea. The two oldest are the Okhyun and Yaumdong sites, found in Ulsan, dating to the early Mumun pottery period.\n\nPaddy field farming goes back thousands of years in Korea. A pit-house at the Daecheon-ni site yielded carbonized rice grains and radiocarbon dates, indicating that rice cultivation in dry-fields may have begun as early as the Middle Jeulmun pottery period (c. 3500–2000 BC) in the Korean Peninsula. Ancient paddy fields have been carefully unearthed in Korea by institutes such as Kyungnam University Museum (KUM) of Masan. They excavated paddy field features at the Geumcheon-ni Site near Miryang, South Gyeongsang Province. The paddy field feature was found next to a pit-house that is dated to the latter part of the Early Mumun pottery period (c. 1100–850 BC). KUM has conducted excavations, that have revealed similarly dated paddy field features, at Yaeum-dong and Okhyeon, in modern-day Ulsan.\n\nThe earliest Mumun features were usually located in low-lying narrow gullies, that were naturally swampy and fed by the local stream system. Some Mumun paddy fields in flat areas were made of a series of squares and rectangles, separated by bunds approximately 10 cm in height, while terraced paddy fields consisted of long irregular shapes that followed natural contours of the land at various levels.\n\nMumun Period rice farmers used all of the elements that are present in today's paddy fields, such as terracing, bunds, canals, and small reservoirs. We can grasp some paddy-field farming techniques of the Middle Mumun (c. 850–550 BC), from the well-preserved wooden tools excavated from archaeological rice fields at the Majeon-ni Site. However, iron tools for paddy-field farming were not introduced until sometime after 200 BC. The spatial scale of paddy-fields increased, with the regular use of iron tools, in the Three Kingdoms of Korea Period (c. AD 300/400-668).\n\nThe first paddy fields in Japan date to the Early Yayoi period (300 BC – 250 AD). The Early Yayoi has been re-dated, and it appears that wet-field agriculture developed at about the same time as in the Korean peninsula.\n\nEvidence of wild rice on the island of Sulawesi dates from 3000 BCE. Historic evidence for the earliest cultivation, however, comes from eighth century stone inscriptions from the central island of Java, which show kings levied taxes in rice. In ancient Java, during the Medang Mataram period, many inscriptions are related to the establishment of the \"sima\" lands. This signify the formation and expansion of Javanese agricultural villages in the region during this period. Either by opening a forest or converting a \"ladang\" (dry rice cultivation) to \"sawah\" (wet rice cultivation). A \"sima\" is an arable wet rice agricultural land with rice surpluses available for taxation, and officially recognised through royal edict. Most of these \"sima\" lands are ruled by regional \"rakai\" or \"samget\" (landed gentry) in their realm. The Rakais that rule the land are granted a royal permission to collect tax, yet some parts of these tax should be regularly paid to the king's court. In some instance, some of these \"sima\" inscription stated that this \"sima\" land has become a tax-free land, in exchange that the rice harvest surpluses collected from this land are used to construct or maintain a religious building.\n\nThe images of rice cultivation, rice barn, and mouse pest investing a rice field is evident in Karmawibhangga bas-reliefs of Borobudur. Divisions of labour between men, women, and animals that are still in place in Indonesian rice cultivation, were carved into relief friezes on the ninth century Prambanan temples in Central Java: a water buffalo attached to a plough; women planting seedlings and pounding grain; and a man carrying sheaves of rice on each end of a pole across his shoulders (\"pikulan\"). In the sixteenth century, Europeans visiting the Indonesian islands saw rice as a new prestige food served to the aristocracy during ceremonies and feasts.\n\nRice production in Indonesian history is linked to the development of iron tools and the domestication of Wild Asian Water Buffalo as water buffalo for cultivation of fields and manure for fertiliser. Rice production requires exposure to the sun. Once covered in dense forest, much of the Indonesian landscape has been gradually cleared for permanent fields and settlements as rice cultivation developed over the last fifteen hundred years.\n\nIn the Philippines, the use of rice paddies can be traced to prehistoric times, as evidenced in the names of towns such as Pila, Laguna, whose name can be traced to the straight mounds of dirt that form the boundaries of the rice paddy, or \"Pilapil.\"\n\nWet rice cultivation in Vietnam dates back to the Neolithic Hoa Binh culture and Bac Son culture.\n\nAlthough China's agricultural output is the largest in the world, only about 15% of its total land area can be cultivated. About 75% of the cultivated area is used for food crops. Rice is China's most important crop, raised on about 25% of the cultivated area. Most rice is grown south of the Huai River, in the Yangtze valley, the Zhu Jiang delta, and in Yunnan, Guizhou, and Sichuan provinces.\n\nRice appears to have been used by the Early Neolithic populations of Lijiacun and Yunchanyan in China. Evidence of possible rice cultivation from ca. 11,500 BP has been found, however it is still questioned whether the rice was indeed being cultivated, or instead being gathered as wild rice. Bruce Smith, an archaeologist at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., who has written on the origins of agriculture, says that evidence has been mounting that the Yangtze was probably the site of the earliest rice cultivation. In 1998, Crawford & Shen reported that the earliest of 14 AMS or radiocarbon dates on rice from at least nine Early to Middle Neolithic sites is no older than 7000 BC, that rice from the Hemudu and Luojiajiao sites indicates that rice domestication likely began before 5000 BC, but that most sites in China from which rice remains have been recovered are younger than 5000 BC.\n\nDuring the Spring and Autumn period (722–481 BC), two revolutionary improvements in farming technology took place. One was the use of cast iron tools and beasts of burden to pull plows, and the other was the large-scale harnessing of rivers and development of water conservation projects. Sunshu Ao of the 6th century BC and Ximen Bao of the 5th century BC are two of the earliest hydraulic engineers from China, and their works were focused upon improving irrigation systems. These developments were widely spread during the ensuing Warring States period (403–221 BC), culminating in the enormous Du Jiang Yan Irrigation System engineered by Li Bing by 256 BC for the State of Qin in ancient Sichuan. During the Eastern Jin (317–420) and the Northern and Southern Dynasties (420–589), land-use became more intensive and efficient, rice was grown twice a year and cattle began to be used for plowing and fertilization.\n\nIn circa 750, 75% of China's population lived north of the river Yangtze, but by 1250, 75% of China's population lived south of the river Yangtze. Such large-scale internal migration was possible due to introduction of quick-ripening strains of rice from Vietnam suitable for multi-cropping.\n\nLocalities in China which are famous for their spectacular rice paddies are Yuanyang County, Yunnan, and Longsheng County, Guangxi.\n\nIndia has the largest paddy output in the world and is also the fourth largest exporter of rice in the world. In India, West Bengal is the largest rice producing state. Paddy fields are a common sight throughout India, both in the northern gangetic plains and the southern peninsular plateaus. Paddy is cultivated at least twice a year in most parts of India, the two seasons being known as Rabi and Kharif respectively. The former cultivation is dependent on irrigation, while the latter depends on Monsoon. The paddy cultivation plays a major role in socio-cultural life of rural India. Many festivals such as Onam in Kerala, Bihu in Assam, Makara Sankranthi in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, Thai Pongal In Tamil Nadu, Makar Sankranti in Karnataka, Nabanna in West Bengal celebrates harvest of Paddy. Kaveri delta region of Thanjavur is historically known as the rice bowl of Tamil Nadu and Kuttanadu is called the rice bowl of Kerala.\n\nPrime Javanese paddy yields roughly 6 metric tons of unmilled rice (2.5 metric tons of milled rice) per hectare. When irrigation is available, rice farmers typically plant Green Revolution rice varieties allowing three growing seasons per year. Since fertilizer and pesticide are relatively expensive inputs, farmers typically plant seeds in a very small plot. Three weeks following germination, the 15-20 centimetre (6–8 in) stalks are picked and replanted at greater separation, in a backbreaking manual procedure.\n\nRice harvesting in Central Java is often performed not by owners or sharecroppers of paddy, but rather by itinerant middlemen, whose small firms specialize in harvesting, transport, milling, and distribution to markets.\n\nThe fertile volcanic soil of much of the Indonesian archipelago—and particularly the islands of Java and Bali—has made rice a central dietary staple. Steep terrain on Bali resulted in an intricate cooperation systems, locally called \"subak\", to manage water storage and drainage for rice terraces.\n\nRice is grown in northern Italy, especially in the valley of the river Po. The paddy fields are irrigated by fast-flowing streams descending from the Alps.\n\nThe acidic soil conditions common in Japan due to volcanic eruptions have made the paddy field the most productive farming method. Paddy fields are represented by the kanji (commonly read as \"ta\") that has had a strong influence on Japanese culture. In fact, the character , which originally meant 'field' in general, is used in Japan exclusively to convey the meaning 'rice paddy field'. One of the oldest samples of writing in Japan is widely credited to the kanji found on pottery at the archaeological site of Matsutaka in Mie Prefecture that dates to the late 2nd century.\n\n\"Ta\" () is used as a part of many place names as well as in many family names. Most of these places are somehow related to the paddy field and, in many cases, are based on the history of a particular location. For example, where a river runs through a village, the place east of river may be called \"Higashida\" (), literally \"east paddy field.\" A place with a newly irrigated paddy field, especially those during or later than Edo period, may be called \"Nitta\" or \"Shinden\" (both ), \"new paddy field.\" In some places, lakes and marshes were likened to a paddy field and were named with \"ta\", like \"Hakkōda\" ().\n\nToday, many family names have \"ta\" as a component, a practice which can be largely attributed to a government edict in the early Meiji Period which required all citizens to have a family name. Many chose a name based on some geographical feature associated with their residence or occupation, and as nearly three fourths of the population were farmers, many made family names using \"ta\". Some common examples are \"Tanaka\" (), literally meaning \"in the paddy field;\" \"Nakata\" (), \"middle paddy field;\" \"Kawada\" (川田), \"river paddy field;\" and \"Furuta\" (), \"old paddy field.\"\n\nIn recent years, rice consumption in Japan has fallen and many rice farmers are increasingly elderly. The government has subsidized rice production since the 1970s, and favors protectionist policies regarding cheaper imported rice.\n\nArable land in small alluvial flats of most rural river valleys in South Korea are dedicated to paddy-field farming. Farmers assess paddy fields for any necessary repairs in February. Fields may be rebuilt, and bund breaches are repaired. This work is carried out until mid-March, when warmer spring weather allows the farmer to buy or grow rice seedlings. They are transplanted (usually by rice transplanter) from the indoors into freshly flooded paddy fields in May. Farmers tend and weed their paddy fields through the summer until around the time of Chuseok, a traditional holiday held on 15 August of the Lunar Calendar (circa mid-September by Solar Calendar). The harvest begins in October. Coordinating the harvest can be challenging because many Korean farmers have small paddy fields in a number of locations around their villages, and modern harvesting machines are sometimes shared between extended family members. Farmers usually dry the harvested grains in the sun before bringing them to market.\n\nThe Chinese (or Sino-Korean) character for 'field', \"jeon\" (), is found in some place names, especially small farming townships and villages. However, the specific Korean term for 'paddy' is a purely Korean word, \"non\" ().\n\nIn Madagascar, the average annual consumption of rice is 130 kg per person, one of the largest in the world.\n\nAccording to a 1999 study of UPDRS / FAO:\n\nThe majority of rice is related to irrigation (1,054,381 ha). The choice of methods conditioning performance is determined by the variety and quality control of water ..\n\nThe \"Tavy\", is traditionally the culture of flooded upland rice on burning of cleared natural rain forest (135,966 ha). Criticized as being the cause of deforestation, \"Tavy\" is still widely practiced by farmers in Madagascar, who find a good compromise between climate risks, availability of labour and food security.\n\n\"Tanety\" means hill. By extension, the \"tanety\" is also growing upland rice, carried out on the grassy slopes have been deforested for the operation of charcoal. (139,337 ha)\n\nAmong the many varieties, rice of Madagascar include:\n\"Vary lava\" is a translucent long and large grain rice. It is a luxury ricer.\n\"Vary Makalioka, is translucent long and thin grain rice.\n\"Vary Rojofotsy\" is a -half long.grain rice\n\"Vary mena\" or red rice, is exclusive to Madagascar.\n\nPaddy field are typically found on Peninsular Malaysia, in most of its regions. The most scenic paddy fields are located in northern Malaysia, in Kedah, Perlis and Penang; almost covering these states. Paddy fields also can be found on Malaysia's eastern coast region, mainly in Kelantan and Terengganu, and also in Selangor, especially in the districts of Kuala Selangor and Sabak Bernam.\n\nBefore Malaysia became heavily reliant on its industrial output, people were mainly involved in agriculture, especially in the production of rice. It was for that reason, that people usually built their houses next to paddy fields. The very spicy chili pepper that is often eaten in Malaysia, the bird's eye chili, is locally called \"cili padi\", literally \"paddy chili\".\n\nRice is grown primarily in three areas – the Irrawaddy Delta, the area along and the delta of the Kaladan River, and the Central plains around Mandalay, though there has been an increase in rice farming in Shan State and Kachin State in recent years. Up until the later 1960s, Myanmar was the main exporter of rice. Termed the rice basket of South East Asia, much of the rice grown in Myanmar does not rely on fertilizers and pesticides, thus, although \"organic\" in a sense, it has been unable to cope with population growth and other rice economies which utilized fertilizers.\n\nRice is now grown in all the three seasons of Myanmar, though primarily in the Monsoon season – from June to October. Rice grown in the delta areas rely heavily on the river water and sedimented minerals from the northern mountains, whilst the rice grown in the central regions require irrigation from the Irrawaddy River.\n\nThe fields are tilled when the first rains arrive – traditionally measured at 40 days after Thingyan, the Burmese New Year – around the beginning of June. In modern times, tractors are used, but traditionally, buffalos were employed. The rice plants are planted in nurseries and then transplanted by hand into the prepared fields. The rice is then harvested in late November – \"when the rice bends with age\". Most of the rice planting and harvesting are done by hand. The rice is then threshed and stored, ready for the mills.\n\nIn Nepal, rice (Nepali: धान, Dhaan) is grown in the Terai and hilly regions. It is mainly grown during the summer monsoon in Nepal.\n\nPaddy fields are a common sight in the Philippines. Several vast paddy fields exist in the provinces of Ifugao, Nueva Ecija, Isabela, Cagayan, Bulacan, Quezon, and other provinces. Nueva Ecija is considered the main rice growing province of the Philippines and the leading producer of onions in the Municipality of Bongabon in Southeast Asia. It is currently the 9th richest province in the country.\n\nThe Banaue Rice Terraces is an example of paddy fields in the country, it is located in Northern Luzon, Philippines and were built by the Ifugaos 2,000 years ago. Streams and springs found in the mountains were tapped and channeled into Irrigation canals that run downhill through the rice terraces. Other notable Philippine paddy fields are the Batad Rice Terraces, the Bangaan Rice Terraces, the Mayoyao Rice Terraces and the Hapao Rice Terraces.\n\nLocated at Barangay Batad in Banaue, the Batad Rice Terraces are shaped like an amphitheatre, and can be reached by a 12-kilometer ride from Banaue Hotel and a 2-hour hike uphill through mountain trails. The Bangaan Rice Terraces portray the typical Ifugao community, where the livelihood activities are within the village and its surroundings. The Bangaan Rice Terraces is accessible in a one-hour ride from Poblacion, Banaue, then a 20-minute trek down to the village. It can be viewed best from the road to Mayoyao. The Mayoyao Rice Terraces is located at Mayoyao, 44 kilometers away from Poblacion, Banaue. The town of Mayoyao lies in the midst of these rice terraces. All dikes are tiered with flat stones. The Hapao Rice Terraces can be reached within 55 kilometers from the capital town of Lagawe. Other Ifugao stone-walled rice terraces are located in the municipality of Hungduan.\n\nAgriculture in Sri Lanka mainly depends on rice production. Sri Lanka sometimes exports rice to its neighboring countries. Around 1.5 million hectares of land is cultivated in Sri Lanka for paddy in 2008/2009 maha: 64% of which is cultivated during the dry season and 35% cultivated during the wet season. Around 879,000 farmer families are engaged in paddy cultivation in Sri Lanka. They make up 20% of the country's population and 32% of the employment.\n\nRice production in Thailand represents a significant portion of the Thai economy. It uses over half of the farmable land area and labor force in Thailand.\n\nThailand has a strong tradition of rice production. It has the fifth-largest amount of land under rice cultivation in the world and is the world's largest exporter of rice. Thailand has plans to further increase its land available for rice production, with a goal of adding 500,000 hectares to its already 9.2 million hectares of rice-growing areas. The Thai Ministry of Agriculture expected rice production to yield around 30 million tons of rice for 2008. The most produced strain of rice in Thailand is jasmine rice, which has a significantly lower yield rate than other types of rice, but also normally fetches more than double the price of other strains in a global market.\nRice fields in Vietnam (\"ruộng\" or \"cánh đồng\" in Vietnamese) are the predominant land use in the valley of the Red River and the Mekong Delta. In the Red River Delta of northern Vietnam, control of seasonal riverine floodings is achieved by an extensive network of dykes which over the centuries total some 3000 km. In the Mekong Delta of southern Vietnam, there is an interlacing drainage and irrigation canal system that has become the symbol of this area. It jointly serves as transportation routes, allowing farmers to bring their produce to market. In Northwestern Vietnam, Thai people built their \"valley culture\" based on the cultivation of glutinous rice planted in upland fields, requiring terracing of the slopes.\n\nThe primary festival related to the agrarian cycle is \"lễ hạ điền\" (literally \"descent into the fields\") held as the start of the planting season in hope of a bountiful harvest. Traditionally, the event was officiated with much pomp. The monarch carried out the ritual plowing the first furrow while local dignitaries and farmers followed suit. \"Thổ địa\" (deities of the earth), \"thành hoàng làng\" (the village patron spirit), Thần Nông (god of agriculture), and \"thần lúa\" (god of rice plants) were all venerated with prayers and offerings.\n\nIn colloquial Vietnamese, wealth is frequently associated with the vastness of the individual's land holdings. Paddy fields so large as for \"storks to fly with their wings out-stretched\" (\"đồng lúa thẳng cánh cò bay\") can be heard as a common metaphor. Wind-blown undulating rice plants across a paddy field in literary Vietnamese is termed figuratively \"waves of rice plants\" (\"sóng lúa\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1396527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396527", "title": "Pressure system", "text": "Pressure system\n\nA low-pressure area, or \"low\", is a region where the atmospheric pressure at sea level is below that of surrounding locations. Low-pressure systems form under areas of wind divergence that occur in upper levels of the troposphere. The formation process of a low-pressure area is known as cyclogenesis. Within the field of atmospheric dynamics, areas of wind divergence aloft occur in two areas:\n\n\nDiverging winds aloft ahead of these troughs cause atmospheric lift within the troposphere below, which lowers surface pressures as upward motion partially counteracts the force of gravity.\n\nThermal lows form due to localized heating caused by greater sunshine over deserts and other land masses. Since localized areas of warm air are less dense than their surroundings, this warmer air rises, which lowers atmospheric pressure near that portion of the Earth's surface. Large-scale thermal lows over continents help create pressure gradients that drive monsoon circulations. Low-pressure areas can also form due to organized thunderstorm activity over warm water. When this occurs over the tropics in concert with the Intertropical Convergence Zone, it is known as a monsoon trough. Monsoon troughs reach their northerly extent in August and their southerly extent in February. When a convective low acquires a well-defined circulation in the tropics it is termed a tropical cyclone. Tropical cyclones can form during any month of the year globally, but can occur in either the northern hemisphere or the southern hemisphere during November.\n\nAtmospheric lift caused by low-level wind convergence into the surface low brings clouds and potentially precipitation. The low-pressure area's cloudy skies act to minimize diurnal temperature variation. Since clouds reflect sunlight, incoming shortwave solar radiation is less, which causes lower temperatures during the day. At night, the absorptive effect of clouds on outgoing longwave radiation, such as heat energy from the surface, allows for warmer diurnal low temperatures in all seasons. The stronger the area of low pressure, the stronger the winds experienced in its vicinity. Around the world, low-pressure systems are most frequently located over the Tibetan Plateau and in the lee of the Rocky mountains. In Europe—in particular, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands—recurring low-pressure weather systems are typically known as depressions. The lowest recorded non-tornadic barometric pressure was , occurring in the Western Pacific during Typhoon Tip on 12 October 1979.\n\nHigh-pressure systems are frequently associated with light winds at the surface and subsidence through the lower portion of the troposphere. In general, subsidence will dry out an air mass by adiabatic or compressional heating. Thus, high pressure typically brings clear skies. During the day, since no clouds are present to reflect sunlight, there is more incoming shortwave solar radiation and temperatures rise. At night, the absence of clouds means that outgoing longwave radiation (i.e. heat energy from the surface) is not absorbed, giving cooler diurnal low temperatures in all seasons. When surface winds become light, the subsidence produced directly under a high-pressure system can lead to a buildup of particulates in urban areas under the ridge, leading to widespread haze. If the low-level relative humidity rises towards 100 percent overnight, fog can form.\n\nStrong but vertically shallow high-pressure systems moving from higher latitudes to lower latitudes in the northern hemisphere are associated with continental arctic air masses. The low, sharp temperature inversion can lead to areas of persistent stratocumulus or stratus cloud, known in colloquial terms as anticyclonic gloom. The type of weather brought about by an anticyclone depends on its origin. For example, extensions of the Azores high bubble pressure may bring about anticyclonic gloom during the winter, as they are warmed at the base and will trap moisture as they move over the warmer oceans. High pressures that build to the north and extend southwards will often bring clear weather. This is due to being cooled at the base (as opposed to warmed), which helps prevent clouds from forming. The highest barometric pressure ever recorded on Earth was measured in Tonsontsengel, Mongolia on 19 December 2001.\n\nA surface weather analysis is a type of weather map that depicts positions for high- and low-pressure areas, as well as various types of synoptic scale systems such as frontal zones. Isotherms can be drawn on these maps, which are lines of equal temperature. Isotherms are drawn normally as solid lines at a preferred temperature interval. They show temperature gradients, which can be useful in finding fronts, which are on the warm side of large temperature gradients. By plotting the freezing line, isotherms can be useful in determination of precipitation type. Mesoscale convective systems such as tropical cyclones, outflow boundaries and squall lines also are analyzed on surface weather analyses.\n\nIsobaric analysis is performed on these maps, which involves the construction of lines of equal mean sea level pressure. The innermost closed lines indicate the positions of relative maxima and minima in the pressure field. The minima are called low-pressure areas, and the maxima are called high-pressure areas. A \"High\" is often shown as H, and a \"low\" is shown as L. Elongated areas of low pressure, or troughs, are sometimes plotted as thick, brown dashed lines down the trough axis. Isobars are commonly used to place surface boundaries from the horse latitudes poleward, while streamline analyses are used in the tropics. A streamline analysis is a series of arrows oriented parallel to wind, showing wind motion within a certain geographic area. Cs depict cyclonic flow or likely areas of low pressure, while As depict anticyclonic flow or likely positions of high-pressure areas. An area of confluent streamlines shows the location of shearlines within the tropics and subtropics.\n"}
{"id": "10510088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10510088", "title": "RLIF World Rankings", "text": "RLIF World Rankings\n\nThe RLIF World Rankings are the ranking system for men's national teams in the sport of rugby league football. The teams of the member nations of the Rugby League International Federation, rugby league football's world governing body, are ranked based on their game results with the most successful teams being ranked highest. A point system is used, with points being awarded based on the results of RLIF-recognized international matches. Under the existing system, rankings are based on a team's performance over the last three years, with more recent results and more significant matches being more heavily weighted to help reflect the current competitive state of a team.\n\nThe RLIF World Rankings are calculated based on an average of points accumulated by each nation over a three-year cycle. Under the structure, matches deemed of higher importance such as World Cup games, Four Nations and other major tournament finals draw more points than mid-season Tests and other ‘Internationals’. For each match that a nation participates they are given a base level of points. This base level is affected upon the type of match (World Cup, Major Tournament, Test Match and International) and the status of the opponent.\n\nBonus points are given for teams that reach certain milestones deemed of significant international importance including reaching a tournament final or qualifying for an event such as a World Cup.\n\nFrom the total number of points that a nation will receive these points are then averaged to help give a more accurate view of the performance of a nation over the three-year cycle.\n\nNations which have played fewer than 5 matches over a three-year cycle will be penalised under the current point structure.\n\nThe rankings are used by Rugby League International Federation to view the progression and ability of the national rugby league teams.\n\nThe data is currently used in things as seeding for tournaments such as the European Cup, Mediterranean Cup and Pacific Cup.\n\nA weighting system has been implemented by the RLIF to give more points to teams if they gain a victory over a major team in a major tournament, with friendlies ranked with considerably fewer points than any World Cup finals match or the final of Cups such as the European, Mediterranean and Pacific Cups.\n\nThe RLIF has organized the ranking so that a win against a very highly ranked opponent is a considerably greater achievement than a win against a low-rated opponent, so the strength of the opposing team is a factor.\n\nAll matches played over the last thirty-six months or three years are included in the calculation of the rankings, but there is a weighting system implemented to put more emphasis on recent results.\n\n"}
{"id": "7400741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7400741", "title": "Seismogenic layer", "text": "Seismogenic layer\n\nIn geophysics and seismology, the seismogenic layer covers the range of depths within the crust or lithosphere in which most earthquakes originate. The thickness is heavily dependent on location. For oceanic crust, the seismogenic layer thickness can be 0-40 km, and for continental crust, it ranges from 0-25 km. It is also important to note that at subduction zones, there is one seismogenic layer being pushed on top of another. This can result in extremely deep earthquakes up to 700 km in depth. It The base of this layer represents the downwards change in deformation mechanism from elastic and frictional processes (associated with brittle faulting) to a generally aseismic zone where ductile creep becomes the dominant process. The location of this change in deformation style is sometimes referred to as the brittle-ductile transition zone.\n"}
{"id": "43363418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43363418", "title": "Solar power in Switzerland", "text": "Solar power in Switzerland\n\nSolar power in Switzerland has been growing rapidly in recent years due to declining system costs and a feed-in tariff instituted by the Swiss government. In 2013, cumulative capacity increased by 69% to 730 megawatts (MW) and contributed 544 GWh or 0.8% of the countries net-electricity production.\n\nIn 2014, another 320 megawatts were added bringing total installations to 1,076 MW and giving rise to Switzerland entering the group of currently twenty countries with a solar gigawatt market. As per the IEA-PVPS' calculations, the installed capacity by the end of 2014 should be enough to generate close to 2% of the domestic electricity demand—a significant increase compared to the 0.8% contributed by solar in 2013 \"(see charts below)\".\n\nHistorically, Switzerland had been a pioneer in solar photovoltaics in the 1980s and early 1990s but has since lost touch with the rapid-paced roll-out of solar by its world-leading southern and northern neighbors, Italy and Germany. However, the capped capacities that were put into place to avoid unregulated growth, were raised in recent years as the surcharge on consumed electricity to pay for the feed-in tariff had been increased by the parliament. As the country is phasing-out nuclear power and the Swiss electricity sector is about to become completely liberalized, the electricity market is currently undergoing its largest change in history.\n\nSwitzerland's largest solar photovoltaic plant has an output of 8.3 MW, built by Soleol SA and located in Onnens, Canton Waadt.\n\nThe federal government adopted feed-in tariffs to offer a cost-based compensation to renewable energy producers. The feed-in remuneration at cost (\"KEV\", , , ) is the primary instrument for promoting the deployment of power systems using renewable energy sources.\n\nIt covers the difference between the production and the market price, and guarantees producers of electricity from renewable sources a price that corresponds to their production costs. The following renewable energy sources are supported by the KEV remuneration: distributed small hydro (with capacities up to 10 MW), solar photovoltaics, wind power, geothermal energy, biomass and biogas (from agriculture, waste and water treatment).\n\nThe KEV remuneration is financed by collecting a surcharge on the consumed kilowatt-hour (kWh) of electricity. As in other countries, industries with a large electricity consumption are exempt from the surcharge, which has gradually been increased and stands at 1.5 cents per kWh as of 2014.\n\nThe remuneration tariffs for renewables have been specified based on reference power plants for each individual technology. Feed-in tariffs are applicable for 20 to 25 years, depending on the technology. For solar PV, the time-span was reduced from 25 to 20 years in 2014. In view of the anticipated technological progress and the increasing degree of market maturity of renewables energy technologies (especially for solar PV), the feed-in tariffs are subjected to a gradual reduction twice a year. These reductions only apply to new production facilities that are put into operation.\n\nPlanned installations of renewable power facilities have to be registered with Swissgrid, the national network operator. As of the end of 2014, a growing waiting list for solar photovoltaic systems has accumulated as demand excess the capped capacities given by the currently available funds of the KEV remuneration.\n\n"}
{"id": "16635719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16635719", "title": "Suntory Mermaid II", "text": "Suntory Mermaid II\n\nSuntory Mermaid II is a 9.5-metre, 3-tonne catamaran driven by wave power. It features two fin tails which absorb wave energy and generate thrust by moving up and down with the motion of the boat. The ship was designed by Hiroshi Terao of Tokai University.\n\nAt approximately 1100 (Honolulu time) on March 16, 2008, then 69-year-old Japanese sailor and environmentalist Kenichi Horie left the Hawaii Yacht Club, Honolulu, in \"Suntory Mermaid II\", bound for Japan. He arrived at 2349 (1449 UTC) on July 4, 2008 in the Kii Channel offshore of Hinomisaki cape, Wakayama, Japan, without incident. Horie had made the world's longest solo voyage in a wave-powered boat, using green technology.\n\nThe non-stop voyage across the Western Pacific Ocean had taken 110 days and covered 7,000 kilometres (3,780 nautical miles. During the voyage, Horie ate mostly rice and curry, and squid and flying fish he caught. The 9.5 metre (31-foot), three-ton yacht used wave energy to move two fins at its bow and propel it forward, sailing at an average speed of 1.5 knots. After arriving in Wakayama, Horie sailed on to his home harbour in Nishinomiya, where a homecoming ceremony was held.\n\n\"Suntory Mermaid II\" was powered by single solar battery and made from recycled materials. Horie said: \"Throughout history, mankind has used wind for power, but no one has appeared to be serious about wave power. I think I'm a lucky boy as this wave power system has remained virtually untouched.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1055890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1055890", "title": "Sustainable energy", "text": "Sustainable energy\n\nSustainable energy is energy that is consumed at insignificant rates compared to its supply and with manageable collateral effects, especially environmental effects. Another common definition of sustainable energy is an energy system that serves the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their energy needs. Not all renewable energy is sustainable. While renewable energy is defined as energy sources that are naturally replenished on a human timescale, sustainable (often referred to as 'clean') energy must not compromise the system in which it is adopted to the point of being unable to provide for future need. The organizing principle for sustainability is sustainable development, which includes the four interconnected domains: ecology, economics, politics and culture. Sustainability science is the study of sustainable development and environmental science.\n\nTechnologies promote sustainable energy including renewable energy sources, such as hydroelectricity, solar energy, wind energy, wave power, geothermal energy, bioenergy, tidal power and also technologies designed to improve energy efficiency. Costs have decreased immensely throughout the years, and continue to fall. Increasingly, effective government policies support investor confidence and these markets are expanding. Considerable progress is being made in the energy transition from fossil fuels to ecologically sustainable systems, to the point where many studies support 100% renewable energy.\n\nEnergy efficiency and renewable energy are said to be the \"twin pillars\" of sustainable energy. In the broader context of sustainable development, there are three pillars, ecology, economy and society. Some ways in which \"sustainable energy\" has been defined are:\n\nThis sets \"sustainable energy\" apart from other renewable energy terminology such as \"alternative energy\" by focusing on the ability of an energy source to continue providing energy. Sustainable energy can produce some pollution of the environment, as long as it is not sufficient to prohibit heavy use of the source for an indefinite amount of time. Sustainable energy is also distinct from low-carbon energy, which is sustainable only in the sense that it does not add to the CO in the atmosphere.\n\nGreen Energy is energy that can be extracted, generated, and/or consumed without any significant negative impact to the environment. The planet has a natural capability to recover which means pollution that does not go beyond that capability can still be termed green.\n\nGreen power is a subset of renewable energy and represents those renewable energy resources and technologies that provide the highest environmental benefit. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency defines green power as electricity produced from solar, wind, geothermal, biogas, biomass and low-impact small hydroelectric sources. Customers often buy green power for avoided environmental impacts and its greenhouse gas reduction benefits.\n\nRenewable energy technologies are essential contributors to sustainable energy as they generally contribute to world energy security, reducing dependence on fossil fuel resources, and providing opportunities for mitigating greenhouse gases. The International Energy Agency states that:\nFirst- and second-generation technologies have entered the markets, and third-generation technologies heavily depend on long term research and development commitments, where the public sector has a role to play.\n\nVarious Cost–benefit analysis work by a disparate array of specialists and agencies have been conducted to determine the cheapest and quickest paths to decarbonizing the energy supply of the world. With the topic being one of considerable controversy, particularly on the role of nuclear energy. \n\n Among sources of renewable energy, hydroelectric plants have the advantages of being long-lived—many existing plants have operated for more than 100 years. Also, hydroelectric plants are clean and have few emissions. Criticisms directed at large-scale hydroelectric plants include: dislocation of people living where the reservoirs are planned, and release of significant amounts of carbon dioxide during construction and flooding of the reservoir.\n\nHowever, it has been found that high emissions are associated only with shallow reservoirs in warm (tropical) locales, and recent innovations in hydropower turbine technology are enabling efficient development of low-impact run-of-the-river hydroelectricity projects. Generally speaking, hydroelectric plants produce much lower life-cycle emissions than other types of generation. Hydroelectric power, which underwent extensive development during growth of electrification in the 19th and 20th centuries, is experiencing resurgence of development in the 21st century. The areas of greatest hydroelectric growth are the booming economies of Asia. China is the development leader; however, other Asian nations are installing hydropower at a rapid pace. This growth is driven by much increased energy costs—especially for imported energy—and widespread desires for more domestically produced, clean, renewable, and economical generation.\n\nGeothermal power plants can operate 24 hours per day, providing base-load capacity, and the world potential capacity for geothermal power generation is estimated at 85 GW over the next 30 years. However, geothermal power is accessible only in limited areas of the world, including the United States, Central America, East Africa, Iceland, Indonesia, and the Philippines. The costs of geothermal energy have dropped substantially from the systems built in the 1970s. Geothermal heat generation can be competitive in many countries producing geothermal power, or in other regions where the resource is of a lower temperature. Enhanced geothermal system (EGS) technology does not require natural convective hydrothermal resources, so it can be used in areas that were previously unsuitable for geothermal power, if the resource is very large. EGS is currently under research at the U.S. Department of Energy.\n\nBiomass briquettes are increasingly being used in the developing world as an alternative to charcoal. The technique involves the conversion of almost any plant matter into compressed briquettes that typically have about 70% the calorific value of charcoal. There are relatively few examples of large-scale briquette production. One exception is in North Kivu, in eastern Democratic Republic of Congo, where forest clearance for charcoal production is considered to be the biggest threat to mountain gorilla habitat. The staff of Virunga National Park have successfully trained and equipped over 3500 people to produce biomass briquettes, thereby replacing charcoal produced illegally inside the national park, and creating significant employment for people living in extreme poverty in conflict-affected areas.\n\nIn Europe in the 19th century, there were about 200,000 windmills, slightly more than the modern wind turbines of the 21st century. They were mainly used to grind grain and to pump water. The age of coal powered steam engines replaced this early use of wind power.\n\nSolar heating systems are a well known second-generation technology and generally consist of solar thermal collectors, a fluid system to move the heat from the collector to its point of usage, and a reservoir or tank for heat storage and subsequent use. The systems may be used to heat domestic hot water, swimming pool water, or for space heating. The heat can also be used for industrial applications or as an energy input for other uses such as cooling equipment. In many climates, a solar heating system can provide a very high percentage (20 to 80%) of domestic hot water energy.\nEnergy received from the sun by the earth is that of electromagnetic radiation. Light ranges of visible, infrared, ultraviolet, x-rays, and radio waves received by the earth through solar energy. The highest power of radiation comes from visible light. Solar power is complicated due to changes in seasons and from day to night. Cloud cover can also add to complications of solar energy, and not all radiation from the sun reaches earth because it is absorbed and dispersed due to clouds and gases within the earth's atmospheres.\n\nIn the 1980s and early 1990s, most photovoltaic modules provided remote-area power supply, but from around 1995, industry efforts have focused increasingly on developing building integrated photovoltaics and power plants for grid connected applications (see photovoltaic power stations article for details). Currently the largest photovoltaic power plant in North America is the Nellis Solar Power Plant (15 MW). There is a proposal to build a Solar power station in Victoria, Australia, which would be the world's largest PV power station, at 154 MW. Other large photovoltaic power stations include the Girassol solar power plant (62 MW), and the Waldpolenz Solar Park (40 MW).\n\nSome of the second-generation renewables, such as wind power, have high potential and have already realised relatively low production costs. At the end of 2008, worldwide wind farm capacity was 120,791 megawatts (MW), representing an increase of 28.8 percent during the year, and wind power produced some 1.3% of global electricity consumption. Wind power accounts for approximately 20% of electricity use in Denmark, 9% in Spain, and 7% in Germany. However, it may be difficult to site wind turbines in some areas for aesthetic or environmental reasons, and it may be difficult to integrate wind power into electricity grids in some cases.\n\nSolar thermal power stations have been successfully operating in California commercially since the late 1980s, including the largest solar power plant of any kind, the 350 MW Solar Energy Generating Systems. Nevada Solar One is another 64MW plant which has recently opened. Other parabolic trough power plants being proposed are two 50MW plants in Spain, and a 100MW plant in Israel.\n\nSolar and wind are Intermittent energy sources that supply electricity 10-40% of the time. To compensate for this characteristic, it is common to pair their production with already existing hydroelectricity or natural gas generation. In regions where this isn't available, wind and solar can be paired with significantly more expensive pumped-storage hydroelectricity.\n\nBrazil has one of the largest renewable energy programs in the world, involving production of ethanol fuel from sugar cane, and ethanol now provides 18 percent of the country's automotive fuel. As a result of this, together with the exploitation of domestic deep water oil sources, Brazil, which years ago had to import a large share of the petroleum needed for domestic consumption, recently reached complete self-sufficiency in oil.\n\nMost cars on the road today in the U.S. can run on blends of up to 10% ethanol, and motor vehicle manufacturers already produce vehicles designed to run on much higher ethanol blends. Ford, DaimlerChrysler, and GM are among the automobile companies that sell \"flexible-fuel\" cars, trucks, and minivans that can use gasoline and ethanol blends ranging from pure gasoline up to 85% ethanol (E85). By mid-2006, there were approximately six million E85-compatible vehicles on U.S. roads.\n\nBio-fuels may be defined as \"renewable,\" yet may not be \"sustainable,\" due to soil degradation. As of 2012, 40% of American corn production goes toward ethanol. Ethanol takes up a large percentage of \"Clean Energy Use\" when in fact, it is still debatable whether ethanol should be considered as a \"Clean Energy.\"\n\nAccording to the International Energy Agency, new bioenergy (biofuel) technologies being developed today, notably cellulosic ethanol biorefineries, could allow biofuels to play a much bigger role in the future than previously thought. Cellulosic ethanol can be made from plant matter composed primarily of inedible cellulose fibers that form the stems and branches of most plants. Crop residues (such as corn stalks, wheat straw and rice straw), wood waste and municipal solid waste are potential sources of cellulosic biomass. Dedicated energy crops, such as switchgrass, are also promising cellulose sources that can be sustainably produced in many regions of the United States.\n\nIn terms of ocean energy, another third-generation technology, Portugal has the world's first commercial wave farm, the Aguçadora Wave Park, under construction in 2007. The farm will initially use three Pelamis P-750 machines generating 2.25 MW. and costs are put at 8.5 million euro. Subject to successful operation, a further 70 million euro is likely to be invested before 2009 on a further 28 machines to generate 525 MW. Funding for a wave farm in Scotland was announced in February, 2007 by the Scottish Executive, at a cost of over 4 million pounds, as part of a £13 million funding packages for ocean power in Scotland. The farm will be the world's largest with a capacity of 3 MW generated by four Pelamis machines. (see also Wave farm).\n\nIn 2007, the world's first turbine to create commercial amounts of energy using tidal power was installed in the narrows of Strangford Lough in Ireland. The 1.2 MW underwater tidal electricity generator takes advantage of the fast tidal flow in the lough which can be up to 4m/s. Although the generator is powerful enough to power up to a thousand homes, the turbine has a minimal environmental impact, as it is almost entirely submerged, and the rotors turn slowly enough that they pose no danger to wildlife.\n\nSolar power panels that use nanotechnology, which can create circuits out of individual silicon molecules, may cost half as much as traditional photovoltaic cells, according to executives and investors involved in developing the products. Nanosolar has secured more than $100 million from investors to build a factory for nanotechnology thin-film solar panels. The company's plant has a planned production capacity of 430 megawatts peak power of solar cells per year. Commercial production started and first panels have been shipped to customers in late 2007.\n\nLarge national and regional research projects on artificial photosynthesis are designing nanotechnology-based systems that use solar energy to split water into hydrogen fuel. and a proposal has been made for a Global Artificial Photosynthesis project In 2011, researchers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) developed what they are calling an \"Artificial Leaf\", which is capable of splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen directly from solar power when dropped into a glass of water. One side of the \"Artificial Leaf\" produces bubbles of hydrogen, while the other side produces bubbles of oxygen.\n\nMost current solar power plants are made from an array of similar units where each unit is continuously adjusted, e.g., with some step motors, so that the light converter stays in focus of the sun light. The cost of focusing light on converters such as high-power solar panels, Stirling engine, etc. can be dramatically decreased with a simple and efficient rope mechanics. In this technique many units are connected with a network of ropes so that pulling two or three ropes is sufficient to keep all light converters simultaneously in focus as the direction of the sun changes.\n\nJapan and China have national programs aimed at commercial scale Space-Based Solar Power (SBSP). The China Academy of Space Technology (CAST) won the 2015 International SunSat Design Competition with this video of their Multi-Rotary Joint design. Proponents of SBSP claim that Space-Based Solar Power would be clean, constant, and global, and could scale to meet all planetary energy demand. A recent multi-agency industry proposal (echoing the 2008 Pentagon recommendation) won the SECDEF/SECSTATE/USAID Director D3 (Diplomacy, Development, Defense) Innovation Challenge.\n\nHeat pumps and Thermal energy storage are classes of technologies that can enable the utilization of renewable energy sources that would otherwise be inaccessible due to a temperature that is too low for utilization or a time lag between when the energy is available and when it is needed. While enhancing the temperature of available renewable thermal energy, heat pumps have the additional property of leveraging electrical power (or in some cases mechanical or thermal power) by using it to extract additional energy from a low quality source (such as seawater, lake water, the ground, the air, or waste heat from a process).\n\nThermal storage technologies allow heat or cold to be stored for periods of time ranging from hours or overnight to interseasonal, and can involve storage of sensible energy (i.e. by changing the temperature of a medium) or latent energy (i.e. through phase changes of a medium, such between water and slush or ice). Short-term thermal storages can be used for peak-shaving in district heating or electrical distribution systems. Kinds of renewable or alternative energy sources that can be enabled include natural energy (e.g. collected via solar-thermal collectors, or dry cooling towers used to collect winter's cold), waste energy (e.g. from HVAC equipment, industrial processes or power plants), or surplus energy (e.g. as seasonally from hydropower projects or intermittently from wind farms). The Drake Landing Solar Community (Alberta, Canada) is illustrative. borehole thermal energy storage allows the community to get 97% of its year-round heat from solar collectors on the garage roofs, which most of the heat collected in summer. Types of storages for sensible energy include insulated tanks, borehole clusters in substrates ranging from gravel to bedrock, deep aquifers, or shallow lined pits that are insulated on top. Some types of storage are capable of storing heat or cold between opposing seasons (particularly if very large), and some storage applications require inclusion of a heat pump. Latent heat is typically stored in ice tanks or what are called phase-change materials (PCMs).\n\nMoving towards energy sustainability will require changes not only in the way energy is supplied, but in the way it is used, and reducing the amount of energy required to deliver various goods or services is essential. Opportunities for improvement on the demand side of the energy equation are as rich and diverse as those on the supply side, and often offer significant economic benefits.\n\nRenewable energy and energy efficiency are sometimes said to be the \"twin pillars\" of sustainable energy policy. Both resources must be developed in order to stabilize and reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Efficiency slows down energy demand growth so that rising clean energy supplies can make deep cuts in fossil fuel use. If energy use grows too fast, renewable energy development will chase a receding target. A recent historical analysis has demonstrated that the rate of energy efficiency improvements has generally been outpaced by the rate of growth in energy demand, which is due to continuing economic and population growth. As a result, despite energy efficiency gains, total energy use and related carbon emissions have continued to increase. Thus, given the thermodynamic and practical limits of energy efficiency improvements, slowing the growth in energy demand is essential. However, unless clean energy supplies come online rapidly, slowing demand growth will only begin to reduce total emissions; reducing the carbon content of energy sources is also needed. Any serious vision of a sustainable energy economy thus requires commitments to both renewables and efficiency.\n\nRenewable energy (and energy efficiency) are no longer niche sectors that are promoted only by governments and environmentalists. The increased levels of investment and the fact that much of the capital is coming from more conventional financial actors suggest that sustainable energy options are now becoming mainstream. An example of this would be The Alliance to Save Energy's Project with Stahl Consolidated Manufacturing, (Huntsville, Alabama, USA) (StahlCon 7), a patented generator shaft designed to reduce emissions within existing power generating systems, granted publishing rights to the Alliance in 2007.\n\nClimate change concerns coupled with high oil prices and increasing government support are driving increasing rates of investment in the sustainable energy industries, according to a trend analysis from the United Nations Environment Programme. According to UNEP, global investment in sustainable energy in 2007 was higher than previous levels, with $148 billion of new money raised in 2007, an increase of 60% over 2006. Total financial transactions in sustainable energy, including acquisition activity, was $204 billion.\n\nInvestment flows in 2007 broadened and diversified, making the overall picture one of greater breadth and depth of sustainable energy use. The mainstream capital markets are \"now fully receptive to sustainable energy companies, supported by a surge in funds destined for clean energy investment\".\n\nSmart grid refers to a class of technology people are using to bring utility electricity delivery systems into the 21st century, using computer-based remote control and automation. These systems are made possible by two-way communication technology and computer processing that has been used for decades in other industries. They are beginning to be used on electricity networks, from the power plants and wind farms all the way to the consumers of electricity in homes and businesses. They offer many benefits to utilities and consumers—mostly seen in big improvements in energy efficiency on the electricity grid and in the energy users’ homes and offices.\n\nGreen energy includes natural energetic processes that can be harnessed with little pollution. Green power is electricity generated from renewable energy sources.\n\nAnaerobic digestion, geothermal power, wind power, small-scale hydropower, solar energy, biomass power, tidal power, wave power, and some forms of nuclear power (ones which are able to \"burn\" nuclear waste through a process known as nuclear transmutation, such as an Integral Fast Reactor, and therefore belong in the \"Green Energy\" category). Some definitions may also include power derived from the incineration of waste.\n\nSome people, including Greenpeace founder and first member Patrick Moore, George Monbiot, Bill Gates and James Lovelock have specifically classified nuclear power as green energy. Others, including Greenpeace's Phil Radford disagree, claiming that the problems associated with radioactive waste and the risk of nuclear accidents (such as the Chernobyl disaster) pose an unacceptable risk to the environment and to humanity. However, newer nuclear reactor designs are capable of utilizing what is now deemed \"nuclear waste\" until it is no longer (or dramatically less) dangerous, and have design features that greatly minimize the possibility of a nuclear accident. These designs have yet to be commercialized. (See: Molten salt reactor)\n\nSome have argued that although green energy is a commendable effort in solving the world's increasing energy consumption, it must be accompanied by a cultural change that encourages the decrease of the world's appetite for energy.\n\nIn several countries with common carrier arrangements, electricity retailing arrangements make it possible for consumers to purchase green electricity (renewable electricity) from either their utility or a green power provider.\n\nWhen energy is purchased from the electricity network, the power reaching the consumer will not necessarily be generated from green energy sources. The local utility company, electric company, or state power pool buys their electricity from electricity producers who may be generating from fossil fuel, nuclear or renewable energy sources. In many countries green energy currently provides a very small amount of electricity, generally contributing less than 2 to 5% to the overall pool. In some U.S. states, local governments have formed regional power purchasing pools using Community Choice Aggregation and Solar Bonds to achieve a 51% renewable mix or higher, such as in the City of San Francisco.\n\nBy participating in a green energy program a consumer may be having an effect on the energy sources used and ultimately might be helping to promote and expand the use of green energy. They are also making a statement to policy makers that they are willing to pay a price premium to support renewable energy. Green energy consumers either obligate the utility companies to increase the amount of green energy that they purchase from the pool (so decreasing the amount of non-green energy they purchase), or directly fund the green energy through a green power provider. If insufficient green energy sources are available, the utility must develop new ones or contract with a third party energy supplier to provide green energy, causing more to be built. However, there is no way the consumer can check whether or not the electricity bought is \"green\" or otherwise.\n\nIn some countries such as the Netherlands, electricity companies guarantee to buy an equal amount of 'green power' as is being used by their green power customers. The Dutch government exempts green power from pollution taxes, which means green power is hardly any more expensive than other power.\n\nA more recent concept for improving our electrical grid is to beam microwaves from Earth-orbiting satellites or the moon to directly when and where there is demand. The power would be generated from solar energy captured on the lunar surface In this system, the receivers would be \"broad, translucent tent-like structures that would receive microwaves and convert them to electricity\". NASA said in 2000 that the technology was worth pursuing but it is still too soon to say if the technology will be cost-effective.\n\nThe World Wide Fund for Nature and several green electricity labelling organizations created the (now defunct) Eugene Green Energy Standard under which the national green electricity certification schemes could be accredited to ensure that the purchase of green energy leads to the provision of additional new green energy resources.\n\nInnovative green energy trends and solutions were at the center of discussion at EXPO 2017 in Astana, Kazakhstan. Specialized Expo 2017 was themed \"Future Energy\" and brought together representatives of 115 countries and 22 international organizations.\n\nThose not satisfied with the third-party grid approach to green energy via the power grid can install their own locally based renewable energy system. Renewable energy electrical systems from solar to wind to even local hydro-power in some cases, are some of the many types of renewable energy systems available locally. Additionally, for those interested in heating and cooling their dwelling via renewable energy, geothermal heat pump systems that tap the constant temperature of the earth, which is around 7 to 15 degrees Celsius a few feet underground and increases dramatically at greater depths, are an option over conventional natural gas and petroleum-fueled heat approaches. Also, in geographic locations where the Earth's Crust is especially thin, or near volcanoes (as is the case in Iceland) there exists the potential to generate even more electricity than would be possible at other sites, thanks to a more significant temperature gradient at these locales.\n\nThe advantage of this approach in the United States is that many states offer incentives to offset the cost of installation of a renewable energy system. In California, Massachusetts and several other U.S. states, a new approach to community energy supply called Community Choice Aggregation has provided communities with the means to solicit a competitive electricity supplier and use municipal revenue bonds to finance development of local green energy resources. Individuals are usually assured that the electricity they are using is actually produced from a green energy source that they control. Once the system is paid for, the owner of a renewable energy system will be producing their own renewable electricity for essentially no cost and can sell the excess to the local utility at a profit.\n\nRenewable energy, after its generation, needs to be stored in a medium for use with autonomous devices as well as vehicles. Also, to provide household electricity in remote areas (that is areas which are not connected to the mains electricity grid), energy storage is required for use with renewable energy. Energy generation and consumption systems used in the latter case are usually stand-alone power systems.\n\nSome examples are:\n\nUsually however, renewable energy is derived from the mains electricity grid. This means that energy storage is mostly not used, as the mains electricity grid is organised to produce the exact amount of energy being consumed at that particular moment. Energy production on the mains electricity grid is always set up as a combination of (large-scale) renewable energy plants, as well as other power plants as fossil-fuel power plants and nuclear power. This combination however, which is essential for this type of energy supply (as e.g. wind turbines, solar power plants etc.) can only produce when the wind blows and the sun shines. This is also one of the main drawbacks of the system as fossil fuel powerplants are polluting and are a main cause of global warming (nuclear power being an exception). Although fossil fuel power plants too can be made emissionless (through carbon capture and storage), as well as renewable (if the plants are converted to e.g. biomass) the best solution is still to phase out the latter power plants over time. Nuclear power plants too can be more or less eliminated from their problem of nuclear waste through the use of nuclear reprocessing and newer plants as fast breeder and nuclear fusion plants.\n\nRenewable energy power plants do provide a steady flow of energy. For example, hydropower plants, ocean thermal plants, osmotic power plants all provide power at a regulated pace, and are thus available power sources at any given moment (even at night, windstill moments etc.). At present however, the number of steady-flow renewable energy plants alone is still too small to meet energy demands at the times of the day when the irregular producing renewable energy plants cannot produce power.\n\nBesides the greening of fossil fuel and nuclear power plants, another option is the distribution and immediate use of power from solely renewable sources. In this set-up energy storage is again not necessary. For example, TREC has proposed to distribute solar power from the Sahara to Europe. Europe can distribute wind and ocean power to the Sahara and other countries. In this way, power is produced at any given time as at any point of the planet as the sun or the wind is up or ocean waves and currents are stirring. This option however is probably not possible in the short-term, as fossil fuel and nuclear power are still the main sources of energy on the mains electricity net and replacing them will not be possible overnight.\n\nSeveral large-scale energy storage suggestions for the grid have been done. Worldwide there is over 100 GW of Pumped-storage hydroelectricity. This improves efficiency and decreases energy losses but a conversion to an energy storing mains electricity grid is a very costly solution. Some costs could potentially be reduced by making use of energy storage equipment the consumer buys and not the state. An example is batteries in electric cars that would double as an energy buffer for the electricity grid. However besides the cost, setting-up such a system would still be a very complicated and difficult procedure. Also, energy storage apparatus' as car batteries are also built with materials that pose a threat to the environment (e.g. Lithium). The combined production of batteries for such a large part of the population would still have environmental concerns. Besides car batteries however, other Grid energy storage projects make use of less polluting energy carriers (e.g. compressed air tanks and flywheel energy storage).\n\nDirective 2004/8/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 on the promotion of cogeneration based on a useful heat demand in the internal energy market includes the article 5 (\"Guarantee of origin of electricity\" from high-efficiency cogeneration).\n\nEuropean environmental NGOs have launched an ecolabel for green power. The ecolabel is called EKOenergy. It sets criteria for sustainability, additionality, consumer information and tracking. Only part of electricity produced by renewables fulfills the EKOenergy criteria.\n\nA Green Energy Supply Certification Scheme was launched in the United Kingdom in February 2010. This implements guidelines from the Energy Regulator, Ofgem, and sets requirements on transparency, the matching of sales by renewable energy supplies, and additionality.\n\nThe United States Department of Energy (DOE), the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), and the Center for Resource Solutions (CRS) recognizes the voluntary purchase of electricity from renewable energy sources (also called renewable electricity or green electricity) as green power.\n\nThe most popular way to purchase renewable energy as revealed by NREL data is through purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs). According to a Natural Marketing Institute (NMI) survey 55 percent of American consumers want companies to increase their use of renewable energy.\n\nDOE selected six companies for its 2007 Green Power Supplier Awards, including Constellation NewEnergy; 3Degrees; Sterling Planet; SunEdison; Pacific Power and Rocky Mountain Power; and Silicon Valley Power. The combined green power provided by those six winners equals more than 5 billion kilowatt-hours per year, which is enough to power nearly 465,000 average U.S. households. In 2014, Arcadia Power made RECS available to homes and businesses in all 50 states, allowing consumers to use \"100% green power\" as defined by the EPA's Green Power Partnership.\n\nThe U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) Green Power Partnership is a voluntary program that supports the organizational procurement of renewable electricity by offering expert advice, technical support, tools and resources. This can help organizations lower the transaction costs of buying renewable power, reduce carbon footprint, and communicate its leadership to key stakeholders.\n\nThroughout the country, more than half of all U.S. electricity customers now have an option to purchase some type of green power product from a retail electricity provider. Roughly one-quarter of the nation's utilities offer green power programs to customers, and voluntary retail sales of renewable energy in the United States totaled more than 12 billion kilowatt-hours in 2006, a 40% increase over the previous year.\n\nIn the United States, one of the main problems with purchasing green energy through the electrical grid is the current centralized infrastructure that supplies the consumer’s electricity. This infrastructure has led to increasingly frequent brown outs and black outs, high CO emissions, higher energy costs, and power quality issues. An additional $450 billion will be invested to expand this fledgling system over the next 20 years to meet increasing demand. In addition, this centralized system is now being further overtaxed with the incorporation of renewable energies such as wind, solar, and geothermal energies. Renewable resources, due to the amount of space they require, are often located in remote areas where there is a lower energy demand. The current infrastructure would make transporting this energy to high demand areas, such as urban centers, highly inefficient and in some cases impossible. In addition, despite the amount of renewable energy produced or the economic viability of such technologies only about 20 percent will be able to be incorporated into the grid. To have a more sustainable energy profile, the United States must move towards implementing changes to the electrical grid that will accommodate a mixed-fuel economy.\n\nSeveral initiatives are being proposed to mitigate distribution problems. First and foremost, the most effective way to reduce USA’s CO emissions and slow global warming is through conservation efforts. Opponents of the current US electrical grid have also advocated for decentralizing the grid. This system would increase efficiency by reducing the amount of energy lost in transmission. It would also be economically viable as it would reduce the amount of power lines that will need to be constructed in the future to keep up with demand. Merging heat and power in this system would create added benefits and help to increase its efficiency by up to 80-90%. This is a significant increase from the current fossil fuel plants which only have an efficiency of 34%.\n\nCompanies such as Lieef (www.Lieef.com) have started reporting ESG metrics on behalf of companies, and investment funds, in an effort to increase transparency in the space which to date has increased in importance, but has not found a unified measurement tool.\n\nThere are numerous organizations within the academic, federal, and commercial sectors conducting large scale advanced research in the field of sustainable energy. This research spans several areas of focus across the sustainable energy spectrum. Most of the research is targeted at improving efficiency and increasing overall energy yields.\nMultiple federally supported research organizations have focused on sustainable energy in recent years. Two of the most prominent of these labs are Sandia National Laboratories and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), both of which are funded by the United States Department of Energy and supported by various corporate partners. Sandia has a total budget of $2.4 billion while NREL has a budget of $375 million.\n\nScientific production towards sustainable energy systems is rising exponentially, growing from about 500 English journal papers only about renewable energy in 1992 to almost 9,000 papers in 2011.\n\nBiomass is biological material derived from living, or recently living organisms. It most often refers to plants or plant-derived materials which are specifically called lignocellulosic biomass. As an energy source, biomass can either be used directly via combustion to produce heat, or indirectly after converting it to various forms of biofuel. Conversion of biomass to biofuel can be achieved by different methods which are broadly classified into: \"thermal\", \"chemical\", and \"biochemical\" methods. Wood remains the largest biomass energy source today; examples include forest residues – such as dead trees, branches and tree stumps –, yard clippings, wood chips and even municipal solid waste. In the second sense, biomass includes plant or animal matter that can be converted into fibers or other industrial chemicals, including biofuels. Industrial biomass can be grown from numerous types of plants, including miscanthus, switchgrass, hemp, corn, poplar, willow, sorghum, sugarcane, bamboo, and a variety of tree species, ranging from eucalyptus to oil palm (palm oil).\n\nBiomass, biogas and biofuels are burned to produce heat/power and in doing so harm the environment. Pollutants such as sulphurous oxides (SO), nitrous oxides (NO), and particulate matter (PM) are produced from this combustion; the World Health Organisation estimates that 7 million premature deaths are caused each year by air pollution. Biomass combustion is a major contributor.\n\nAs the primary source of biofuel in North America, many organizations are conducting research in the area of ethanol production. On the Federal level, the USDA conducts a large amount of research regarding ethanol production in the United States. Much of this research is targeted towards the effect of ethanol production on domestic food markets.\nThe National Renewable Energy Laboratory has conducted various ethanol research projects, mainly in the area of cellulosic ethanol. Cellulosic ethanol has many benefits over traditional corn based-ethanol. It does not take away or directly conflict with the food supply because it is produced from wood, grasses, or non-edible parts of plants. Moreover, some studies have shown cellulosic ethanol to be more cost effective and economically sustainable than corn-based ethanol. Even if we used all the corn crop that we have in the United States and converted it into ethanol it would only produce enough fuel to serve 13 percent of the United States total gasoline consumption. Sandia National Laboratories conducts in-house cellulosic ethanol research and is also a member of the Joint BioEnergy Institute (JBEI), a research institute founded by the United States Department of Energy with the goal of developing cellulosic biofuels.\n\nFrom 1978 to 1996, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory experimented with producing algae fuel in the \"Aquatic Species Program.\" A self-published article by Michael Briggs, at the University of New Hampshire Biofuels Group, offers estimates for the realistic replacement of all motor vehicle fuel with biofuels by utilizing algae that have a natural oil content greater than 50%, which Briggs suggests can be grown on algae ponds at wastewater treatment plants. This oil-rich algae can then be extracted from the system and processed into biofuels, with the dried remainder further reprocessed to create ethanol.\nThe production of algae to harvest oil for biofuels has not yet been undertaken on a commercial scale, but feasibility studies have been conducted to arrive at the above yield estimate. During the biofuel production process algae actually consumes the carbon dioxide in the air\nand turns it into oxygen through photosynthesis. In addition to its projected high yield, algaculture— unlike food crop-based biofuels — does not entail a decrease in food production, since it requires neither farmland nor fresh water. Many companies are pursuing algae bio-reactors for various purposes, including scaling up biofuels production to commercial levels.\n\nSeveral groups in various sectors are conducting research on Jatropha curcas, a poisonous shrub-like tree that produces seeds considered by many to be a viable source of biofuels feedstock oil. Much of this research focuses on improving the overall per acre oil yield of Jatropha through advancements in genetics, soil science, and horticultural practices. SG Biofuels, a San Diego-based Jatropha developer, has used molecular breeding and biotechnology to produce elite hybrid seeds of Jatropha that show significant yield improvements over first generation varieties. The Center for Sustainable Energy Farming (CfSEF) is a Los Angeles-based non-profit research organization dedicated to Jatropha research in the areas of plant science, agronomy, and horticulture. Successful exploration of these disciplines is projected to increase Jatropha farm production yields by 200-300% in the next ten years.\n\nThere are potentially two sources of nuclear power. Fission is used in all current nuclear power plants. Fusion is the reaction that exists in stars, including the sun, and remains impractical for use on Earth, as fusion reactors are not yet available. However nuclear power is controversial politically and scientifically due to concerns about radioactive waste disposal, safety, the risks of a severe accident, and technical and economical problems in dismantling of old power plants.\n\nThorium is a fissionable material used in thorium-based nuclear power. The thorium fuel cycle claims several potential advantages over a uranium fuel cycle, including greater abundance, superior physical and nuclear properties, better resistance to nuclear weapons proliferation and reduced plutonium and actinide production. Therefore, it is sometimes referred as sustainable.\n\nThe primary obstacle that is preventing the large scale implementation of solar powered energy generation is the inefficiency of current solar technology. Currently, photovoltaic (PV) panels only have the ability to convert around 24% of the sunlight that hits them into electricity. At this rate, solar energy still holds many challenges for widespread implementation, but steady progress has been made in reducing manufacturing cost and increasing photovoltaic efficiency.\nBoth Sandia National Laboratories and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL), have heavily funded solar research programs. The NREL solar program has a budget of around $75 million and develops research projects in the areas of photovoltaic (PV) technology, solar thermal energy, and solar radiation. The budget for Sandia’s solar division is unknown, however it accounts for a significant percentage of the laboratory’s $2.4 billion budget.\nSeveral academic programs have focused on solar research in recent years. The Solar Energy Research Center (SERC) at University of North Carolina (UNC) has the sole purpose of developing cost effective solar technology. In 2008, researchers at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) developed a method to store solar energy by using it to produce hydrogen fuel from water. Such research is targeted at addressing the obstacle that solar development faces of storing energy for use during nighttime hours when the sun is not shining.\nIn February 2012, North Carolina-based Semprius Inc., a solar development company backed by German corporation Siemens, announced that they had developed the world’s most efficient solar panel. The company claims that the prototype converts 33.9% of the sunlight that hits it to electricity, more than double the previous high-end conversion rate. Major projects on artificial photosynthesis or solar fuels are also under way in many developed nations.\n\nSpace-Based Solar Power Satellites seek to overcome the problems of storage and provide civilization-scale power that is clean, constant, and global. Japan and China have active national programs aimed at commercial scale Space-Based Solar Power (SBSP), and both nation's hope to orbit demonstrations in the 2030s. The China Academy of Space Technology (CAST) won the 2015 International SunSat Design Competition with this video of their Multi-Rotary Joint design. Proponents of SBSP claim that Space-Based Solar Power would be clean, constant, and global, and could scale to meet all planetary energy demand. A recent multi-agency industry proposal (echoing the 2008 Pentagon recommendation) won the SECDEF/SECSTATE/USAID Director D3 (Diplomacy, Development, Defense) Innovation Challenge with the following pitch and vision video. Northrop Grumman is funding CALTECH with $17.5 million for an ultra lightweight design. Keith Henson posted a video of a \"bootstrapping\" approach.\n\nWind energy research dates back several decades to the 1970s when NASA developed an analytical model to predict wind turbine power generation during high winds. Today, both Sandia National Laboratories and National Renewable Energy Laboratory have programs dedicated to wind research. Sandia’s laboratory focuses on the advancement of materials, aerodynamics, and sensors. The NREL wind projects are centered on improving wind plant power production, reducing their capital costs, and making wind energy more cost effective overall.\nThe Field Laboratory for Optimized Wind Energy (FLOWE) at Caltech was established to research renewable approaches to wind energy farming technology practices that have the potential to reduce the cost, size, and environmental impact of wind energy production. The president of Sky WindPower Corporation thinks that wind turbines will be able to produce electricity at a cent/kWh at an average which in comparison to coal-generated electricity is a fractional of the cost.\nA wind farm is a group of wind turbines in the same location used to produce electric power. A large wind farm may consist of several hundred individual wind turbines, and cover an extended area of hundreds of square miles, but the land between the turbines may be used for agricultural or other purposes. A wind farm may also be located offshore.\n\nMany of the largest operational onshore wind farms are located in the USA and China. The Gansu Wind Farm in China has over 5,000 MW installed with a goal of 20,000 MW by 2020. China has several other \"wind power bases\" of similar size. The Alta Wind Energy Center in California is the largest onshore wind farm outside of China, with a capacity of 1020 MW of power. Europe leads in the use of wind power with almost 66 GW, about 66 percent of the total globally, with Denmark in the lead according to the countries installed per-capita capacity. As of February 2012, the Walney Wind Farm in United Kingdom is the largest offshore wind farm in the world at 367 MW, followed by Thanet Wind Farm (300 MW), also in the UK.\n\nThere are many large wind farms under construction and these include BARD Offshore 1 (400 MW), Clyde Wind Farm (350 MW), Greater Gabbard wind farm (500 MW), Lincs Wind Farm (270 MW), London Array (1000 MW), Lower Snake River Wind Project (343 MW), Macarthur Wind Farm (420 MW), Shepherds Flat Wind Farm (845 MW), and Sheringham Shoal (317 MW).\n\nWind power has expanded quickly, its share of worldwide electricity usage at the end of 2014 was 3.1%.\n\nGeothermal energy is produced by tapping into the thermal energy created and stored within the earth. It arises from the radioactive decay of an isotope of potassium and other elements found in the Earth's crust. Geothermal energy can be obtained by drilling into the ground, very similar to oil exploration, and then it is carried by a heat-transfer fluid (e.g. water, brine or steam). Geothermal systems that are mainly dominated by water have the potential to provide greater benefits to the system and will generate more power. Within these liquid-dominated systems, there are possible concerns of subsidence and contamination of ground-water resources. Therefore, protection of ground-water resources is necessary in these systems. This means that careful reservoir production and engineering is necessary in liquid-dominated geothermal reservoir systems. Geothermal energy is considered sustainable because that thermal energy is constantly replenished. However, the science of geothermal energy generation is still young and developing economic viability. Several entities, such as the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories are conducting research toward the goal of establishing a proven science around geothermal energy. The International Centre for Geothermal Research (IGC), a German geosciences research organization, is largely focused on geothermal energy development research.\n\nOver $1 billion of federal money has been spent on the research and development of hydrogen and a medium for energy storage in the United States. Both the National Renewable Energy Laboratory and Sandia National Laboratories have departments dedicated to hydrogen research. Hydrogen is useful for energy storage, and for use in airplanes and ships, but is not practical for automobile use, as it is not very efficient, compared to using a battery — for the same cost a person can travel three times as far using a battery electric vehicle.\n\n2010 was a record year for green energy investments. According to a report from Bloomberg New Energy Finance, nearly US $243 billion was invested in wind farms, solar power, electric cars, and other alternative technologies worldwide, representing a 30 percent increase from 2009 and nearly five times the money invested in 2004. China had $51.1 billion investment in clean energy projects in 2010, by far the largest figure for any country.\n\nWithin emerging economies, Brazil comes second to China in terms of clean energy investments. Supported by strong energy policies, Brazil has one of the world’s highest biomass and small-hydro power capacities and is poised for significant growth in wind energy investment. The cumulative investment potential in Brazil from 2010 to 2020 is projected as $67 billion.\n\nIndia is another rising clean energy leader. While India ranked the 10th in private clean energy investments among G-20 members in 2009, over the next 10 years it is expected to rise to the third position, with annual clean energy investment under current policies forecast to grow by 369 percent between 2010 and 2020.\n\nIt is clear that the center of growth has started to shift to the developing economies and they may lead the world in the new wave of clean energy investments.\n\nAround the world many sub-national governments - regions, states and provinces - have aggressively pursued sustainable energy investments. In the United States, California's leadership in renewable energy was recognised by The Climate Group when it awarded former Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger its inaugural award for international climate leadership in Copenhagen in 2009. In Australia, the state of South Australia - under the leadership of former Premier Mike Rann - has led the way with wind power comprising 26% of its electricity generation by the end of 2011, edging out coal fired generation for the first time. South Australia also has had the highest take-up per capita of household solar panels in Australia following the Rann Government's introduction of solar feed-in laws and educative campaign involving the installation of solar photovoltaic installations on the roofs of prominent public buildings, including the parliament, museum, airport and Adelaide Showgrounds pavilion and schools. Rann, Australia's first climate change minister, passed legislation in 2006 setting targets for renewable energy and emissions cuts, the first legislation in Australia to do so.\n\nAlso, in the European Union there is a clear trend of promoting policies encouraging investments and financing for sustainable energy in terms of energy efficiency, innovation in energy exploitation and development of renewable resources, with increased consideration of environmental aspects and sustainability.\n\nIn October 2018, the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy (ACEEE) released its annual \"State Energy Efficiency Scorecard.\" The scorecard concluded that states and electric utility companies are continuing to expand energy efficiency measures in order to meet clean energy goals. In 2017, the U.S. spent $6.6 billion in electricity efficiency programs. $1.3 billion was spent on natural gas efficiency. These programs resulted in 27.3 million megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity saved.\n\nAmong scientific journals related to the interdisciplinary study of sustainable energy are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10992586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10992586", "title": "Teak furniture", "text": "Teak furniture\n\nTeak wood is used for making boats, furniture, and other things which require resistance to the elements. Teak is used for outdoor furniture but is not recommended for full exposure to sunlight. Being more expensive than most other woods, teak furniture has become something of a status symbol. Not only is it common for a teak bench, chair, or table to last 70 years with the correct care plan, it is also common to pass down such furniture to future generations as an heirloom.\n\nTeak is originally from the teak tree with the Latin name \"Tectona grandis\". The teak tree is common in Southeast Asia. Teak is a hardwood that is particularly resistant to different types of climate, making it suitable for shipbuilding and for furniture.\nTeak furniture can remain outdoors in any climate year round, and can be left unfinished or protected. Plantation teak wood can be considered eco-friendly due to its long life expectancies. To ensure the reduction of impact teak furniture has to the environment, many forestry companies produce sustainably managed plantation teak.\n\nIn places and seasons where eating outdoors is common and pleasant, it is common to find wooden dining tables and chairs in gardens, backyards, deck areas, patios, pool yards and sun rooms. Teak is an excellent material for this application, because it will not be broken down in the sun like plastics, it is less prone to the elements like other woods, it is lighter and cooler than iron, and will not easily bend or break like tubular metals.\n\nBenches are perhaps the most common use of teak other than marine applications. Teak benches are ideal for commercial use due to their strong nature and natural resistance to decay and termites, and are available in an endless variety of designs.\n\nTeak is popular for chaise loungers and other recumbent seating because it is more durable and better crafted than most plastic loungers and will not get hot in the sun like metal loungers. Since these chairs are heavy, they often have 2 or more wheels for easy transport from place to place.\n\nAdirondack chairs (also known as Muskoka chairs) are comfortable with their high backs, their contoured seats and their wide arm-rests. The arm-rests provide ample room for food and beverages for comfortable meals while reclining with no table required, making them popular with outdoor cafés and bistros as they offer seating and a small place for food without the need for a table.\n\nTeak is a popular and traditional wood for the frames of large umbrellas such as shade umbrellas and market umbrellas. While teak provides the durability, weather resistance and lightness needed for such an application, metals like aluminum are more popular and generally a cheaper choice.\n\nComplemented with weather resistant and outdoor cushions and similar to living room furniture, deep seating patio furniture is becoming more and more popular in places with warmer climates. With landscaping and outdoor décor being such a popular trend, furniture to sit in and enjoy the space has followed suit. The teak wood construction allows patio furniture sets to last years longer than other wood furniture.\n\n\"Teak oil\" is the name used by manufactures of various oil-based wood treatments intended for use on teak and other hardwoods. Teak oil most often contains linseed oil, but does not contain oil from the teak tree.\n\n"}
{"id": "40914232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40914232", "title": "Whiting event", "text": "Whiting event\n\nA whiting event is a phenomenon that occurs when a calcium carbonate precipitate cloud forms in water bodies during the summer every year. It is caused as a result of change in the water temperature or by increased photosynthetic activity by certain microscopic marine life.\n\n"}
{"id": "5427634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5427634", "title": "Wolves in folklore, religion and mythology", "text": "Wolves in folklore, religion and mythology\n\nThe wolf is a common motif in the foundational mythologies and cosmologies of peoples throughout Eurasia and North America (corresponding to the historical extent of the habitat of the gray wolf). The obvious attribute of the wolf is its nature of a predator, and correspondingly it is strongly associated with danger and destruction, making it the symbol of the warrior on one hand, and that of the devil on the other. The modern trope of the Big Bad Wolf is a development of this. The wolf holds great importance in the cultures and religions of the nomadic peoples, both of the Eurasian steppe and North American Plains. \nIn many cultures, the identification of the warrior with the wolf (totemism) gave rise to the notion of lycanthropy, the mythical or ritual identification of man and wolf.\n\nWolves were sometimes associated with witchcraft in both northern European and some Native American cultures: in Norse folklore, the völva (witch) Hyndla and the giantess Hyrrokin are both portrayed as using wolves as mounts, while in Navajo culture, wolves were feared as witches in wolf's clothing. Similarly, the Tsilhqot'in believed that contact with wolves could cause mental illness and death.\n\nOne of the earliest written references to black wolves occurs in the Babylonian epic \"Gilgamesh\", in which the titular character rejects the sexual advances of the goddess Ishtar, reminding her that she had transformed a previous lover,\n\nIn Proto-Indo-European mythology, the wolf was presumably associated with the warrior class, who would \"transform into wolves\" (or dogs) upon their initiation. This is reflected in Iron Age Europe in the \"Tierkrieger\" depictions from the Germanic sphere, among others. The standard comparative overview of this aspect of Indo-European mythology is McCone (1987)\n\nAccording to legend, the establishment of the Lithuanian capital Vilnius began when the grand duke Gediminas dreamt of an iron wolf howling near the hill. Lithuanian goddess Medeina was described as a single, unwilling to get married, though voluptuous and beautiful huntress. She was depicted as a she-wolf with an escort of wolves.\n\nNorse mythology prominently includes three malevolent wolves, in particular: the giant Fenrisulfr or Fenrir, eldest child of Loki and Angrboda who was feared and hated by the Æsir, and Fenrisulfr's children, Sköll and Hati. Fenrir is bound by the gods, but is ultimately destined to grow too large for his bonds and devour Odin during the course of Ragnarök. At that time, he will have grown so large that his upper jaw touches the sky while his lower touches the earth when he gapes. He will be slain by Odin's son, Viðarr, who will either stab him in the heart or rip his jaws asunder, according to different accounts. Fenrir's two offspring will, according to legend, devour the sun and moon at Ragnarök. On the other hand, however, the wolves Geri and Freki were the Norse god Odin's faithful pets who were reputed to be \"of good omen.\"\n\nIn the Hervarar saga, king Heidrek is asked by Gestumblindi (Odin), \"What is that lamp which lights up men, but flame engulfs it, and wargs grasp after it always.\" Heidrek knows the answer is the Sun, explaining: \"She lights up every land and shines over all men, and Skoll and Hatti are called wargs. Those are wolves, one going before the sun, the other after the moon.\"\n\nBut wolves also served as mounts for more or less dangerous humanoid creatures. For instance, \"Gunnr's horse\" was a kenning for \"wolf\" on the Rök Runestone, in the Lay of Hyndla, the völva (witch) Hyndla rides a wolf, and to Baldr's funeral, the giantess Hyrrokin arrived on a wolf.\n\nWolf or Wulf is used as a surname, given name, and a name among Germanic-speaking peoples. \"Wolf\" is also a component in other Germanic names:\n\nThe Ancient Greeks associated wolves with the sun god Apollo.\n\nMount Lykaion () is a mountain in Arcadia where an altar of Zeus was located. \"Zeus Lykaios\" was said to have been born and brought up on it, and was the home of Pelasgus and his son Lycaon, who is said to have founded the ritual of Zeus practiced on its summit. This seems to have involved a human sacrifice, and a feast in which the man who received the portion of a human victim was changed to a wolf, as Lycaon had been after sacrificing a child. The sanctuary of Zeus played host to athletic games held every four years, the \"Lykaia\".\n\nIn the Rig Veda, Ṛjrāśva is blinded by his father as punishment for having given 101 of his family's sheep to a she-wolf, who in turn prays to the Ashvins to restore his sight. \nWolves are occasionally mentioned in Hindu mythology. In the Harivamsa, Krishna, to convince the people of Vraja to migrate to Vṛndāvana, creates hundreds of wolves from his hairs, which frighten the inhabitants of Vraja into making the journey. Bhima, the voracious son of the god Vayu, is described as \"Vrikodara\", meaning \"wolf-stomached\".\n\nAccording to the Avesta, the sacred text of the Zoroastrians, wolves are a creation from the 'darkness' of the evil spirit Ahriman, and are ranked among the most cruel of animals. and belong to the \"daevas\". The \"Bundahishn\", which is a Middle Persian text on the Zoroastrian creation myth, has a chapter dedicated to the 'nature of wolves' as seen in Zoroastrian mythology and belief.\n\nIn Roman mythology wolves are mainly associated to Mars, god of war and agriculture. The Capitoline Wolf nurses Romulus and Remus, sons of Mars and future founders of Rome. The twin babies were ordered to be killed by their great uncle Amulius. The servant ordered to kill them, however, relented and placed the two on the banks of the Tiber river. The river, which was in flood, rose and gently carried the cradle and the twins downstream, where under the protection of the river deity Tiberinus, they would be adopted by a she-wolf known as \"Lupa\" in Latin, an animal sacred to Mars. As a consequence, the Italian wolf is the national animal of the modern Italian Republic.\n\nIn Antiquity, the she-wolf was identified as a symbol of Rome by both the Romans themselves and nations under the Roman rule. The \"Lupa Romana \"was an iconic scene that represented in the first place the idea of \"romanitas\", being Roman. When it was used in the Roman Provinces, it can be seen as an expression of loyalty to Rome and the emperor.\n\nThe treatment given to wolves diﬀered from the treatment meted out to other large predators. The Romans generally seem to have refrained from intentionally harming wolves. For instance, they were not hunted for pleasure (but only in order to protect herds that were out at pasture), and not displayed in the venationes, either. The special status of the wolf was not based on national ideology, but rather was connected to the religious importance of the wolf to the Romans.\n\nThe comedian Plautus used the image of wolves to ponder the cruelty of man as a wolf unto man.\n\n\"Lupus\" (Wolf) was used as a Latin first name and as a Roman cognomen.\n\nThe Slavic languages share a term for \"werewolf\" derived from a Common Slavic \"vuko-dlak\" \"wolf-furr\".\n\nThe wolf as a mythological creature is greatly linked to Balkan and Serbian mythology and cults. It has an important part in Serbian mythology. In the Slavic, old Serbian religion and mythology, the wolf was used as a totem. In the Serbian epic poetry, the wolf is a symbol of fearlessness. Vuk Karadžić, 19th-century Serbian philologist and ethnographer, explained the traditional, apotropaic use of the name Vuk (\"wolf\"): a woman who had lost several babies in succession, would name her newborn son Vuk, because it was believed that the witches, who \"ate\" the babies, were afraid to attack the wolves.\n\nIn the mythology of the Turkic and Mongolian peoples, the wolf is a revered animal. In the mythology of the Turks, Mongols and Ainu, wolves were believed to be the ancestors of their people, The legend of Asena is an old Turkic myth that tells of how the Turkic people were created. In Northern China a small Turkic village was raided by Chinese soldiers, but one small baby was left behind. An old she-wolf with a sky-blue mane named Asena found the baby and nursed him, then the she-wolf gave birth to half-wolf, half-human cubs, from whom the Turkic people were born. Also in Turkic mythology it is believed that a gray wolf showed the Turks the way out of their legendary homeland \"Ergenekon\", which allowed them to spread and conquer their neighbours. In modern Turkey this myth inspired extreme-right nationalist groups known as \"Grey Wolves\". As with most ancient peoples' beliefs, the wolf was thought to possess spiritual powers, and that parts of its body retained specific powers that could be used by people for various needs.\n\nIn the \"Secret History of the Mongols\", the Mongol peoples are said to have descended from the mating of a doe (\"gua maral\") and a wolf (\"boerte chino\"). In modern Mongolia, the wolf is still seen as a good luck symbol, especially for males. In Mongolian folk medicine, eating the intestines of a wolf is said to alleviate chronic indigestion, while sprinkling food with powdered wolf rectum is said to cure hemorrhoids. Mongol mythology explains the wolf's occasional habit of surplus killing by pointing to their traditional creation story. It states that when God explained to the wolf what it should and should not eat, he told it that it may eat one sheep out of 1,000. The wolf however misunderstood and thought God said kill 1,000 sheep and eat one.\n\nIn Japanese mythology, grain farmers once worshiped wolves at shrines and left food offerings near their dens, beseeching them to protect their crops from wild boars and deer. Talismans and charms adorned with images of wolves were thought to protect against fire, disease, and other calamities and brought fertility to agrarian communities and to couples hoping to have children. The Ainu people believed that they were born from the union of a wolf like creature and a goddess.\n\nUnlike fox and bear, the wolf has always been feared and hated in Finland, and wolf has been the symbol of destruction and desolation, to the extent that the very name of wolf in Finnish language, \"susi\", means also \"a useless thing\" and the by-name \"hukka\" means perdition and annihilation. While bear has been the sacred animal of Finns, wolves have always been hunted and killed mercilessly. The wolf has been represented as implacable and malicious predator, killing more than it manages to eat. \n\nIn most Native American cultures, wolves are considered a medicine being associated with courage, strength, loyalty, and success at hunting.\n\nWolves were generally revered by Aboriginal Canadians that survived by hunting, but were thought little of by those that survived through agriculture. Some Alaska Natives including the Nunamiut of both northern and northwestern Alaska respected the wolf's hunting skill and tried to emulate the wolf in order to hunt successfully. First Nations such as Naskapi as well as Squamish and Lil'wat view the wolf as a daytime hunting guide. The Naskapis believed that the caribou afterlife is guarded by giant wolves that kill careless hunters who venture too near. The Netsilik Inuit and Takanaluk-arnaluk believed that the sea-woman Nuliayuk's home was guarded by wolves. Wolves were feared by the Tsilhqot'in, who believed that contact with wolves would result in nervous illness or death. The Dena’ina believed wolves were once men, and viewed them as brothers.\n\nIn the cardinal directions of Midwestern Native Americans, the wolf represented the west, but it represented the southeast for the Pawnee tribe. According to the Pawnee creation myth, the wolf was the first creature to experience death. The Wolf Star, enraged at not having been invited to attend a council on how the Earth should be made, sent a wolf to steal the whirlwind bag of The Storm that Comes out of the West, which contained the first humans. Upon being freed from the bag, the humans killed the wolf, thus bringing death into the world. Native Americans have long seen the wolf as an animal of power. Many tribes credit the actual creator of the earth to be a wolf. The Arikara and Ojibwe believed a wolfman spirit made the Great Plains for them and for other animals. Many tribes consider wolves to be closely related to humans. The reason for this belief is because of the wolf’s dedication to its pack, a trait the tribes attributed with themselves. The Navajo tribe was known for performing healing ceremonies where they would call upon wolves to restore health to their ill. Wolves were admired for their superb hunting skills. Prayers were offered in honor of wolves before they went out of hunting excursions. The Pawnee’s connection with wolves was so great that their hand signal for Pawnee was actually the same one that they had for wolf. Before battles, Apache warriors would pray, sing, and dance to gain the teamwork, strength, and bravery of wolves.\nThe Pawnee, being both an agricultural and hunting people, associated the wolf with both corn and the bison; the \"birth\" and \"death\" of the Wolf Star (Sirius) was to them a reflection of the wolf's coming and going down the path of the Milky Way known as Wolf Road. The Navajo tribe feared taboo-breaking witches (nearly always male) in wolves' clothing called \"yee naaldlooshii\", literally \"with it, he goes on all fours\". Wolf in Navajo is \"mąʼiitsoh\"- literally \"large coyote\".\n\nThere is an Omaha legend in which a wolf guides a wounded warrior back to his camp, alerting him whenever there are rival warriors nearby and showing him the easiest path. There is a story that was pushed around as Cherokee legend, Two Wolves, that is often referenced in media but actually has ties to Christian-style parables that was told by Minister Billy Graham and actually mentioned, specifically, eskimo, and because it's been attributed to the Cherokee- the one that goes around the Cherokee world has a deeper meaning and negates the \"GOOD\" VS \"EVIL\" trope . In Cherokee beliefs, there was a clan called the wolf people. They would never kill a wolf, believing the spirit of the slain wolf would revenge its death. The Cherokee also believed that if a hunter showed respect and prayed before and after killing an animal such as a deer, a wolf, a fox, or an opossum would guard his feet against frostbite. The Tewa tribe believed that wolves held the powers of the east and were one of the zenith power-medicine animals.\n\nThe wolf is a national symbol of Chechnya. According to folklore, the Chechens are \"born of a she-wolf\", as included in the central line in the national myth. The \"lone wolf\" symbolizes strength, independence and freedom. A proverb about the teips (sub-clans) is \"equal and free like wolves\".\n\nThe Bible contains 13 references to wolves, usually as metaphors for greed and destructiveness. In the New Testament, Jesus is quoted to have used wolves as illustrations to the dangers His followers would have faced should they follow him (Matthew 10:16, Acts 20:29, Matthew 7:15)\n\nThe Book of Genesis was interpreted in Medieval Europe as stating that nature exists solely to support man (Genesis 1:29), who must cultivate it (Genesis 2:15), and that animals are made for his own purposes (Genesis 2:18-20). By this perspective, nature was only acceptable if controlled by man.\nThe wolf is repeatedly mentioned in the scriptures as an enemy of flocks: a metaphor for evil men with a lust for power and dishonest gain, as well as a metaphor for Satan preying on innocent God-fearing Christians, contrasted with the shepherd Jesus who keeps his flock safe. The Roman Catholic Church often used the negative imagery of wolves to create a sense of real devils prowling the real world. Quoting from Leviticus and Deuteronomy, the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" states that wolves are either agents of God sent to punish sinners, or agents of the Devil sent with God's blessing to harass true believers to test their faith.\n\nHowever, legends surrounding Saint Francis of Assisi show him befriending a wolf. According to the \"Fioretti\", the city of Gubbio was besieged by the Wolf of Gubbio, which devoured both livestock and men. Francis of Assisi, who was living in Gubbio at the time took pity on the townsfolk, and went up into the hills to find the wolf. Soon fear of the animal had caused all his companions to flee, but the saint pressed on and when he found the wolf he made the sign of the cross and commanded the wolf to come to him and hurt no one. Miraculously the wolf closed his jaws and lay down at the feet of St. Francis. \"Brother Wolf, you do much harm in these parts and you have done great evil ...\" said Francis. \"All these people accuse you and curse you… But brother wolf, I would like to make peace between you and the people.\" Then Francis led the wolf into the town, and surrounded by startled citizens he made a pact between them and the wolf. Because the wolf had \"done evil out of hunger\" the townsfolk were to feed the wolf regularly, and in return, the wolf would no longer prey upon them or their flocks. In this manner Gubbio was freed from the menace of the predator. Francis, ever the lover of animals, even made a pact on behalf of the town dogs, that they would not bother the wolf again.\n\nIn Canto I of Dante's \"Inferno\", the pilgrim encounters a she-wolf blocking the path to a hill bathed in light. The she-wolf represents the sins of concupiscence and incontinence. She is prophecised by the shade of Virgil to one day be sent to Hell by a greyhound.\n\nMuch of the symbolism Jesus used in the New Testament revolved around the pastoral culture of Israel, and explained his relationship with his followers as analogous to that of a good shepherd protecting his flock from wolves. An innovation in the popular image of wolves started by Jesus includes the concept of the wolf in sheep's clothing, which warns people against false prophets. Several authors have proposed that Jesus's portrayal of wolves, comparing them to dangerous and treacherous people, was an important development in perceptions on the species, which legitimized centuries of subsequent wolf persecution in the western world. Subsequent medieval Christian literature followed and expanded upon Biblical teachings on the wolf. It appeared in the seventh century edition of the \"Physiologus\", which infused pagan tales with the spirit of Christian moral and mystical teaching. The \"Physiologus\" portrays wolves as being able to strike men dumb on sight, and of having only one cervical vertebra. Dante included a she-wolf, representing greed and fraud, in the first canto of the \"Inferno\". The \"Malleus Maleficarum\", first published in 1487, states that wolves are either agents of God sent to punish the wicked, or agents of Satan, sent with God's blessing to test the faith of believers.\n\nWolves are mentioned three times in the Qur'an, specifically in the Sura Yusuf.\n\n12.13: \"He said: Surely it grieves me that you should take him off, and I fear lest the wolf devour him while you are heedless of him.\"\n\n12.14: \"They said: Surely if the wolf should devour him notwithstanding that we are a (strong) company, we should then certainly be losers.\"\n\n12.17: \"They said: O our father! Surely we went off racing and left Yusuf by our goods, so the wolf devoured him, and you will not believe us though we are truthful.\"\n\nThe popular image of the wolf is significantly influenced by the Big Bad Wolf stereotype from Aesop's Fables and Grimm's Fairy Tales.\nThe Christian symbolism where the wolf represents the devil, or evil, being after the \"sheep\" who are the living faithful, is found frequently in western literature. \nIn Milton's \"Lycidas\" the theological metaphor is made explicit: \n\nThe wolf in the Scandinavian tradition as either representing the warrior or as a symbol of Odin, sometimes combined with the Christian symbolism as the wolf representing evil or the devil, came to be a popular attribute in the heavy metal music subculture, used by bands such as Sonata Arctica, Marduk, Watain, Wintersun, and Wolf.\n\n"}
