{"id": "18729692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18729692", "title": "Additionality", "text": "Additionality\n\nAdditionality is the property of an activity being additional. It is a determination of whether an intervention has an effect, when the intervention is compared to a baseline. 'Interventions' can take a variety of forms, but often include economic incentives. For an example of the application of additionality in environmental crediting markets refer to carbon credits. \n\nAdditionality may be evaluated ex post, as is often done in the practice of program evaluation. Or it can be done ex ante, as an initial eligibility screen for issuing credits as part of an environmental or other public goods market. For ex ante applications, additionality is evaluated for proposed activities. A proposed activity is additional if the recognized interventions are deemed to be causing the activity to take place. The occurrence of additionality is determined by assessing whether a proposed activity is distinct from its baseline. A baseline is a prediction of the quantified amount of an input to or output from an activity resulting from the expected future behavior of the actors proposing, and affected by, the proposed activity in the absence of one or more policy interventions, holding all other factors constant (ceteris paribus).\n\nOther working definitions of the term are available here.\n\nNet positive difference that results from economic development intervention. The extent to which an activity (and associated outputs, outcomes and impacts) is larger in scale, at a higher quality, takes place more quickly, takes place at a different location, or takes place at all as a result of intervention. Additionality measures the net result, taking account of deadweight, leakage, displacement, substitution and economic multipliers.\n\nAdditionality is calculated by the following formula: \n\nwhere \"A\" is the additionality, \"I\" is the impact of the intervention, and \"I\" is the impact of a reference case.\n\nAdditionality becomes problematic when the parties claim that their behavior is being changed due to recognized intervention (e.g., because of the economic incentive provided by earning carbon offset credits), when in fact the intervention is having no effect on their behavior because other factors are dominant (e.g., earning a profit from an activity even without carbon credits). The proposed project is therefore not truly \"additional\", since it would have been implemented without the intervention (e.g., in the form of the carbon credit price signal). This without intervention scenario is often referred to as \"business as usual\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31140838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31140838", "title": "Bendi people", "text": "Bendi people\n\nThe Bendi are a Southern Bantoid people of Obanliku Local Government Area of Cross River State, in southeastern Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "41267714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41267714", "title": "Bravely Second: End Layer", "text": "Bravely Second: End Layer\n\nBravely Second is a traditional role-playing video game with turn-based action, and reuses the battle system of its predecessor \"Bravely Default\". This allows players to build up \"brave points\" (BP), or the amount of user turns per character at any given time. On any turn, characters can \"default\", to guard, and gain an additional BP, or \"brave\" multiple times, to use up BP and act multiple times on the same turn.\n\nNew to the game is a chain-battle feature where a player who defeats a random encounter may continue to battle enemies in succession for greater risk and reward. Players can receive up to three times the amount of experience; and money. This also allows the player to level up each character's \"Job Points\" (JP). Each character has access to many different jobs, (up to a total of 30) by gaining that job's asterisk. The asterisk is usually held by another character in gameworld with that class.\n\nBravely Default's sidequests have been revamped; players encounter two Eternian asterisk holders in an argument about an ethical dilemma, and the player must resolve the conflict with the reward being the loser's asterisk.\n\nTwo and a half years after the events of \"Bravely Default,\" Agnès Oblige has been elected the Pope of the Crystal Orthodoxy. She and Grand Marshal Braev Lee of the Duchy of Eternia seek to end hostilities between their groups with a formal peace treaty in the city of Gathelatio. The ceremony is interrupted by Kaiser Oblivion, leader of the Glanz Empire, and his cryst-fairy companion Anne, who abduct Agnès and imprison her in their floating fortress, the Skyhold. Yew Geneolgia, leader of Agnès' Crystalguard protectors, awakens a week after the attack and sets out to rescue her with fellow Crystalguard leaders Janne Engarde and Nikolai Nikolanikov. However, Janne and Nikolai are revealed to be moles for the Empire. Later guided by Agnès through a crystal shard she dropped when she was kidnapped, Yew assembles three companions: Eternian Ducal Guard captain Edea Lee, the daughter of Braev who aided Agnès in their first adventure, Magnolia Arch, a young Ba'al Buster from the moon who is the sole survivor of an attack on her village and possesses an hourglass capable of localized time manipulation, and Tiz Arrior, a former comrade of Agnès and Edea who has been comatose for the past two and a half years. The group is unable to prevent the Kaiser from escaping in the Skyhold.\n\nWith the guidance of both Agnès and a mysterious \"man with a purple pen\", the party pursues the Skyhold across the world. During their travels, the Kaiser obtains a compass of space and time. The party also learns about the Sword of the Brave, a cursed sword that took Yew's older half-brother Denys' right arm after he tried to claim it; he was disinherited and vanished soon after. At the Fire Temple in Eisenberg, following their encounter with the mysterious Kyubi, the group find the Fire Crystal has been overcharged and realize that the Kaiser is summoning the Holy Pillar. The group hurries to Florem to intercept the Empire at the Water Crystal, where the man with the purple pen reveals himself to be a Celestial Being named Altair who has possessed Tiz since his near-death at the Great Chasm two years prior. Meanwhile, the Kaiser forces Agnès to dispel the shield around the Water Crystal and overcharge it to summon the Holy Pillar. The party attacks the Skyhold and kills Janne and Nikolai, both revealed to oppose the Orthodoxy due to its past corruption. Their deaths buy time for the Kaiser to use the compass to travel back in time with Agnès, but Anne has already sabotaged the compass to send the two to the distant future as she uses the Holy Pillar's power to destroy the Moon. The party defeats Anne in battle, but the destruction of the Moon ceases the flow of time and places the world in a state that would eventually end in inevitable destruction.\n\nThe party uses Magnolia's hourglass to go back in time to the peace ceremony and stop the Kaiser from abducting Agnès, learning his true identity is Yew's missing brother Denys. Denys escapes with the aid of Janne and Nikolai, but the party utilizes their memories of the previous timeline to stop Denys' plans while convincing his subordinates not to throw their lives away. Yew eventually corners Denys in the Geneolgia crypts, learning his brother's intent to use the compass to travel back in time to kill their family's founder to negate the corrupt misdeeds caused by their bloodline. Yew defeats Denys, and Agnès and Braev convince him to own up to his mistakes and create a world of peace in the present. However, Anne forces a Vestling to manifest the Holy Pillar to destroy the moon once again before Denys destroys her brooch. Anne responds by awakening Diamante, the Ba'al that ravaged Magnolia's home and concealed itself as the Skyhold, to destroy the group. Denys sacrifices himself by using the compass to send himself and Diamante to the end of time.\n\nThe party awakens in Caldisla, which Kyubi had displaced prior, and confront Anne when she attempts to use Norende's Great Chasm to summon Ba'als directly to Luxendarc. She reveals she is the older sister of Tiz and Edea's old enemy Airy; she manipulated them into defeating Airy as the intrusion of her \"god\" Ouroboros would pose a threat to her master Providence, the so-called \"god\" of the Celestial Realm. Anne explains that Providence created the Ba'als using the memories of Altair's lover Vega. After killing Anne, the group enters the Celestial Realm and frees Vega from Providence's control. After Altair and Vega depart in peace, the group is attacked by Providence, who breaks the fourth wall and attempts to delete the player's save file. The party stops Providence and destroys him.\n\nWhen the group returns to Luxendarc, Tiz is revealed to be dying again now that Altair's soul has left him. A mysterious Adventurer, who has provided aid to Tiz since Norende's destruction, appears and takes Magnolia's hourglass back in time to give to Tiz at the start of his original adventure. The Adventurer, revealing herself to be a colleague of Altair's named Deneb, returns and informs the group that the hourglass, now with two and a half years' worth of hopes and dreams, will be able to renew his life. Agnès, possessing the hourglass, delivers it to the party and revives Tiz. In the game's epilogue, Agnès retires from her duties as the pope and settles down in Norende with Tiz while Edea sets out as the new Grand Marshall to secure the peace between Eternia and the Orthodoxy. Magnolia decides to remain on Luxendarc with Yew, and the two confess their love for each other. In a post-credits scene, having interacted with the party under the guise of their world's Alternis Dim in their dealings with Kyubi and the Empire, Tiz and Edea's old companion Ringabel is revealed to have become an agent of an interdimensional police force called the Planeswardens. He gives the Planeswardens confirmation that the Sword of the Brave exists.\n\nAs early as December 2012, talks of a sequel to \"Bravely Default\" arose, with producer Tomoya Asano requesting feedback from fans to be used for a sequel to the game. Talks of a sequel also arose again in June 2013, when game developer Yasumi Matsuno announced that character designer and lead artist Akihiko Yoshida was working on a \"Bravely Default\" sequel. In August 2013, Square Enix announced \"Bravely Default: For the Sequel\", an updated version of the original that would implement new gameplay ideas developed for a sequel in the series. The name \"Bravely Second\" was trademarked as early as September 2013. The game's name was officially announced as \"Bravely Second\" in a December 2013 issue of \"Jump\" magazine. being named after a gameplay mechanic from \"Bravely Default: For the Sequel\". Upon announcement, the game's only announced platform is the Nintendo 3DS. The game was approximately 30% complete around the time of its official announcement.\n\nIn December 2013, it was revealed that Yoshida had left Square Enix. Despite this, he states he still plans on continuing to work on the \"Bravely\" games, and \"Bravely Second\" will still retain the same anime art style established in the first game. albeit with characters having slightly more realistic proportions, being slightly less chibi. Initial brainstorming led to ideas such as having Magnolia wear a space suit or bunny ears, but this was ultimately scrapped to pursue a more \"adult look\", something the developers felt was missing in the first title. Asano also confirmed that the game will stay story driven as opposed to exploration driven, as with the first game. In April 2014, producer Tomoya Asano announced in \"Famitsu\"s Rumour Column that the scenario for the game was completed. In late July 2014, Famitsu magazine revealed that Revo would not be returning to compose the soundtrack for the game due to conflicting schedules, and that Ryo from the band Supercell would be taking his place.\n\nOn December 10, 2014, a trial version of the game was released on the Japanese Nintendo eShop. A demo was released ahead of the game's full release, by Nintendo E-Shop download only, and contained content not present in the final game. The demo, released as \"Bravely Second: The Ballad of the Three Cavaliers\", allowed players to sample ten classes, as well as ten or more hours of gameplay. Some items that were collected in the demo can transfer into the main game.\n\n\"Bravely Second\" received positive reviews. Praise went towards the gameplay following on from the original game, and criticism went mostly towards the story and lack of differentiation from its predecessor.\n\nIn their review, \"Famitsu\" gave the game the score 36 of 40, consisting of the sub-scores 9, 9, 9, and 9. Siliconera detailed and translated a series of responses from Japanese players including praise for the \"Consecutive Chance\" feature and criticism for overuse of memes and modern linguistics drawing comparisons to \"Hyperdimension Neptunia\".\n\nJanine Hawkins from \"Polygon\" criticized the lack of innovation from its predecessor but praised the world and the writing, saying \"The world is beautifully realized, and the writing is enjoyable\"; Hawkins summarized her review as \"Bravely Second takes after its predecessor almost to a fault.\"\n\nMike Mahardy from \"Gamespot\" said \"One could argue it feels more like an exceptional expansion than a true sequel\" citing how \"the combat, despite its sleek design, doesn't make any major improvements on the well established formula.\" Criticizing the writing, he adds \"But in the end, Bravely Second transcends the limitations that its poor writing and redundant storyline create.\"\n\n\"Bravely Second\" was the best selling video game in Japan during its debut week, with 100,047 copies sold and 53.6% of the initial shipment sold out. This was a lower debut than that of the original \"Bravely Default\"; during its launch week, 141,529 copies were sold, which corresponded to 85.68% of its first shipment. By April 2017, 700,000 copies had been sold worldwide.\n\nIn North America, the game was the ninth best-selling game of its debut month of April 2016, a feat deemed particularly impressive by VentureBeat, which noted was rare for a physical release of a niche genre like a JRPG. In the United Kingdom, the game debuted at #12 on the All-Formats chart and #9 on the individual format chart that ranks the releases of multi-platform games per console as opposed to title. During its debut week, it was the highest selling game on a Nintendo platform.\n\n"}
{"id": "33175173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33175173", "title": "Brazilians in Suriname", "text": "Brazilians in Suriname\n\nBrazilians in Suriname form a large community consisting mostly of miners. The number of Brazilians in the country is estimated at 40,000, nearly 10 percent of the population. Suriname allegedly has the largest community of Brazilians in any CARICOM nation.\n\nSuriname's low population density and abundant natural resources have attracted numerous migrants from neighboring Brazil. Over the past decade or so, as many as 40,000 Brazilians, mostly illegal immigrants, have moved to Suriname, a country with fewer than half a million citizens. Many if not most Brazilians in Suriname work as small-scale gold miners in the town of Albina which has become primarily a base for nomadic gold prospectors.\n\nGold mining in Albina is typically environmentally destructive and it often results in clashes between the miners and indigenous peoples.\n\nIn late December 2009, a series of riots occurred when local maroon inhabitants attacked Brazilian, Chinese, Colombian and Peruvian gold diggers after a man was allegedly stabbed to death by a Brazilian. The Brazilian government sent a diplomatic mission on December 27, 2009 to attend the Brazilian victims. Five Brazilians returned to Brazil on December 27 on an airplane of the Brazilian Air Force. On December 28, an airplane with capacity for 40 people was sent to the city with the purpose of rescuing more Brazilians.\n\n"}
{"id": "44247640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44247640", "title": "Canadian Mexicans", "text": "Canadian Mexicans\n\nCanadians in Mexico consist mainly of working professionals and retired expatriates. According to Canada's Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, there are about 6,000 Canadians living in Mexico, but only 3,000 are registered with the Canadian Embassy in Mexico City. According to statistics from Mexico's National Institute of Statistics and Geography, in 2009 there were 10,869 Canadian-born persons living in Mexico.\n\nAn important Canadian-descended group is the Plautdietsch-speaking \"Russian\" Mennonites and their descendants, who emigrated from Canada to Mexico starting in 1922.\n\nToday there are about 100,000 Mennonites living in Mexico, whose ancestors arrived via Canada. Migration to Mexico took place mainly in the years 1922 to 1927, smaller groups came after World War II. The first settlers moved to the State of Chihuahua (near Cuauhtemoc) and Durango (near Nuevo Ideal). Later daughter-settlements in other states were established (San Luis Potosí, Sinaloa, Sonora, Zacatecas, Campeche, Quintana Roo and Tamaulipas).\n\nNotable Mexicans of Canadian origin include the artist Arnold Belkin, cinematographer Alex Phillips and the actress Fannie Kauffman. \n\n"}
{"id": "49670360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49670360", "title": "Caroline Skeel", "text": "Caroline Skeel\n\nCaroline Anne James Skeel (9 February 1872 – 25 February 1951) was a British historian. She was a professor of history at Westfield College, and is remembered for her work in Welsh social and economic history. The library at Westfield was named after her in 1971.\n\nSkeel was born in Hampstead, London, the sixth of the seven children of William James Skeel (1822–1899), a physician and wealthy investor, and Anne (1831–1895). Both parents came from Pembrokeshire, Wales – her father being from Castle Hill in the parish of Haycastle, and her mother's parents came from Clarbeston. Skeel studied at a private school, and spent three years in South Hampstead High School and Notting Hill High School between 1884 and 1890. With 12 others from Notting Hill High School, she studied at Girton College, Cambridge, having entered in 1891. At Girton, she was a St. Dunstan's Exhibitioner, and graduated with a first in both classics and history. A successful student, she was given the Agnata Butler Prize in 1893 and 1894, and the Thérèsa Montefiore Memorial Prize in her last year at Girton in 1895.\n\nIn 1926 she was awarded an M.A. (Cantab) degree.\n\nAfter graduating from Girton, Skeel was appointed as a history teacher at Westfield College, London. While teaching there she published her first work, \"Travel in the First Century A.D.\", in 1901. She became known for her research into Welsh history, of which her \"The Council in the Marches of Wales: A study in local government in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries\" (1904) was notable. Much of her research delved into aspects of Welsh social and economic history which were poorly covered at the time.\n\nSkeel assumed responsibility for the college's library beginning in 1902. In 1907, she fell into ill health and was absent from Westfield for a period but after her return, she took over as Head of Department from 1911 to 1919. She was Reader and Head of Department from 1919 to 1925 and University Professor of history from 1925 to 1929. In 1924, she published an article on the Wool industry of Wales, and contributed a chapter to a book on Wales under Henry VII by R. W. Seton-Watson. In 1926 she submitted \"The Cattle Trade Between England and Wales in the 15th to 18th Centuries\" to the Royal Historical Society.\n\nSkeel was a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society from 1914 to 1928, serving on its Council and Publications Committee from 1921 to 1927. She was a member of the Classical Association, the Historical Association, and the Cymmrodorion Society.\n\nIn 1914 she was a recipient of the Henry Hutchison Medal, and the Gamble Prize for producing an essay on the works of Sir John Fortesque.\n\nShe retired in 1929 to 34 Heald Crescent in Hendon, where, despite her significant wealth, she lived modestly. She died in February 1951, leaving an estate worth £269,386, of which a large sum was bequeathed to numerous Christian charities and Westfield College.\n\nThe library at Westfield (currently the Queen Mary University of London) was named the Caroline Skeel Library when it was established in 1971.\n"}
{"id": "4361444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4361444", "title": "Census in Armenia", "text": "Census in Armenia\n\nThe first census in Armenia after the dissolution of the Soviet Union was conducted by the Republic of Armenia's National Statistical Service during the period October 10–19, 2001. The census night was October 10. The Azgayin Zhoghov (National Assembly) adopted the law \"On Census\" in 1999, but the government lacked the necessary funds to carry out the count immediately. According to Armenian law, a census must take place every 10 years.\n\nThe demographic trends in modern Armenia during its history. While Armenians formed a consistent majority, Azerbaijanis were historically the second largest population in the republic under Soviet rule (forming about 2.5% in 1989). However, due to hostilities with neighboring Azerbaijan over the disputed region of Nagorno-Karabakh virtually all Azeris emigrated from Armenia. Conversely, Armenia received a large influx of Armenian refugees from Azerbaijan, thus giving Armenia a more homogeneous character. This forceful population exchange also affected the Christian Udi people of Azerbaijan, many of whom were perceived as Armenians due to close cultural ties between both peoples. The number of Udis residing in Armenia has increased from 19 in 1989 to about 200 by 2006.\n\nAdditionally since independence, several other ethnic groups have emigrated especially Russians (who decreased from 51,555 persons in 1989 to 14,660 in 2001), Ukrainians (8,341 in 1989 to 1,633 in 2001), Greeks (4,650 in 1989 to 1,176 in 2001), and Belarusians (1,061 in 1989 to 160 in 2001). The numbers of Yazidis, Kurds, and Assyrians have remained consistent for the most part (though approximately 2,000 Assyrians have left Armenia between 1989 and 2001). Although Georgians were historically counted among the largest ethnic groups in modern Armenia, their numbers have dropped substantially since the 1989 Soviet census when they numbered 1,364 persons.\n\n"}
{"id": "26638571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26638571", "title": "Chhipa", "text": "Chhipa\n\nThe Chhipa (alternatively spelled Chippa) are a community or clan of people with ancestral roots tracing back to India.\n\nThe word \"chhipa\" is believed to come from two Nepal Bhasa words, \"chhi\" (to dye) and \"pa\" (to leave something to bask in sun). According to old Gujarati record books, referred to as \"Balwa Pothy\", their Rajput community was founded in Nagaur, Rajasthan and later spread to Gujarat where they took up the skill of dying and printing fabrics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34722341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34722341", "title": "Commedia sexy all'italiana", "text": "Commedia sexy all'italiana\n\nThe commedia sexy all'italiana (lit. \"sex comedy Italian style\"), also known as \"commedia scollacciata\" or \"commedia erotica all'italiana,\" is a subgenre of Italian \"commedia all'italiana\" film genre.\n\n\"Commedia sexy\" is characterized typically by abundant female nudity, and by the minimal weight given to social criticism that was instead basic in the \"commedia all'italiana\" main genre, and stories are often set in affluent environments such as wealthy households. The genre has been described as a cross between bawdy comedy and humorous erotic film with ample slapstick elements and follows more or less clichéd storylines.\n\nThis subgenre has its roots in several different series of films. The \"mondo film\" genre popularized nudity, shifting the limits of what could be shown in the Italian cinema. A series of successful \"Italian style comedies\" of the sixties (such as Pietro Germi's \"Signore & Signori\" (1966) and Dino Risi's \"Vedo nudo\" (1969)) focused on Italian hypocrisy and shame about sexual taboos, popularizing sex-based plots. Pier Paolo Pasolini's \"trilogy of life\" (\"The Decameron\" (1971), \"Canterbury Tales\" (1972) and \"Arabian Nights\" (1974)), clearly inspired by Boccaccio and Chaucer's tales, contained both nudity and sex-based plots, and was successful enough to generate a number of unofficial sequels and spoofs that became collectively known as \"Decamerotici\". These spoofs can be considered the first \"commedia sexy\" films. The relaxation of Italian censors, beginning from the early '70s, paved the way for dozens of soft-core productions, often set in medieval or Renaissance times, even in prehistory, or peasant and rustic environments (\"film pecorecci\").\n\nThe \"commedia sexy\" was very successful commercially between the 1970s and early 1980s, although it was generally panned by critics (with a few exceptions such as several comedies starring Lando Buzzanca), and then declined when female nudity became common in Italian mainstream cinema, television and magazines, and when pornographic films became more widely available.\n\nThe \"commedia sexy\" launched the career of several actresses, including Edwige Fenech, commonly considered the star of the genre; Gloria Guida, the staple lead actress of coming-of-age films and the popular \"La liceale\" series in the mid-1970s; and Nadia Cassini who was publicised as an heiress to Fenech in the late 1970s. Many actresses who had earlier success in other genres were seen passing to \"commedia sexy\" and becoming well-known exponents, such as Femi Benussi in the mid-1970s, Barbara Bouchet in the late 1970s, and glamour models Anna Maria Rizzoli and Carmen Russo in the early 1980s, a period when the genre was starting to fade in popularity. \n\nThe genre is also effectively identified with prominent male comedians including Lino Banfi, Pippo Franco, Alvaro Vitali, and Renzo Montagnani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8372206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8372206", "title": "Comprehensive campaign", "text": "Comprehensive campaign\n\nA comprehensive campaign is labor union organizing or a collective bargaining campaign with a heavy focus on research, the use of community coalition-building, publicity and public pressure, political and regulatory pressure, and economic and legal pressure in addition to traditional organizing tactics.\n\nThe comprehensive campaign is a labor tactic primarily used in the United States, where labor unions lack many of the legal protections accorded their counterparts in the European Community and where cultural norms against unions are not as strong. However, as globalization increases and capital and labor become more mobile, employers outside the U.S. are adopting American union-avoidance tactics, and comprehensive campaigns are becoming more common in Europe and Asia.\n\nComprehensive campaigns are not commonly used in the United States due to their cost and the organizational expertise their require. However, they are gaining popularity in the U.S. labor movement, and many unions claim to be building comprehensive campaign capabilities.\n\nThe comprehensive campaign is an evolution of labor union tactics, a process which has been ongoing in the United States since the 1960s. The identification of \"good organizing practices,\" which arose out of a wave of labor union organizing in the 1930s and 1940s, was no longer proving effective for a variety of reasons (innovations in union-avoidance and anti-union tactics, economic and cultural changes, statutory and case law alterations in federal labor protections, etc.).\n\nInnovations in grass-roots community organizing, developed outside the labor movement in the 1960s, offered American unions a new way with which to exercise power vis-a-vis employers. In 1971, radical activist Saul Alinsky published \"Rules for Radicals,\" a book which outlined the new strategy of the \"community campaign.\" Activists believed that suburbanization, the rise of multinational corporations, economic dislocation and the alienating effects of modern life had eroded communal norms against corporate greed and misbehavior. By rebuilding a sense of community by uniting existing organizations into new coalitions, or creating new organizations and then educating the coalition members about various causes, these activists believed they could alter the balance of power in their communities. The concept of the community campaign was quickly transferred to the labor movement.\n\nCommunity campaigns frequently use the strategy of labor-community coalitions, or coalitions between unions and community organizations. Coalitions have varying forms and success, depending on the context in which they are organized and the strategies used to build them.\n\nAs employers learned about the techniques of the community campaign and discovered sophisticated ways to neutralizing the advantages it gave a union, labor unions expanded their repertoire of tactics as well.\n\nThe corporate campaign was developed to augment, and sometimes supplant, the community campaign. The corporate campaign identified and influenced members of a company's board of directors, or the company lenders, customers and/or suppliers. The goal was to uncover conflicts of interest, inefficiency, waste, fraud, or mismanagement and use this information, either publicly or privately, to win economic leverage over an employer and achieve the union's goals.\n\nAgain, employer adaptations undercut the effectiveness of the corporate campaign. Additionally, labor unions found it less expensive to build community coalitions, and relied more heavily on staff-driven corporate campaigns. Many union activists also argued that the publicity generated by a rowdy shareholder meeting, for example, or an embarrassing report about conflict of interest on a board of directors, supplanted the community campaign by building the necessary community pressure. These arguments proved incorrect. But declining union fortunes (literally) made it difficult to employ the staff and resources necessary to build full-fledged community campaigns. More and more unions came to rely on the corporate campaign even as it became less and less effective.\n\nThe comprehensive campaign combines the elements of the community campaign and corporate campaign, but is much more far-reaching. Bob Harbrant, then-president of the Food and Allied Service Trades Department of the AFL-CIO and an early theorist of comprehensive campaigns, argued in 1987:\nAt the heart of the comprehensive campaign is research concerning the company and a broad-based community campaign which disseminates this research. The comprehensive campaign seeks to utilize all the levers of influence and power against an employer. State or local legislation antithetical to the employer's interests is introduced. Pressure is exerted through business license, zoning and regulatory processes. Political pressure is applied by electing local, state and federal officials, and seeking the appointment of union-friendly bureaucrats. Lawsuits may be filed. Reports and \"white papers\" may be issued, and relationships with members of the press built. Picketing may occur at charity events, at the homes of board members or senior corporate officers, at the workplace, or at the place of business of subsidiaries, customers or suppliers. The support of religious, community, civic, consumer, environmental and other groups is won and continuously displayed to the employer and the public. As information is uncovered, it is assessed and fit into a strategic plan extending (in some cases) several years into the future. Escalation is planned, back-door channels sought (through which negotiations may be conducted), and new allies found. The comprehensive campaign is a pressure campaign, one which seeks to continuously apply pressure until the employer makes an egregious error (for example, harms the community in some way or overreacts to union pressure) or the union uncovers embarrassing or damaging information.\n\nThere is, however, still some confusion over the term \"comprehensive campaign\". In part, this is because some writers use the term \"comprehensive\" as an adjective for the word \"campaign\" rather than as a term of art. For example, Bronfenbrenner and Hickey define a comprehensive campaign as one which contains the following elements:\nSince nine of the 10 elements listed by Bronfenbrenner and Hickey are elements of \"good organizing practices\" used in traditional union organizing campaigns, it is clear that they are referring not to the term of art \"comprehensive campaign\" but to a traditional organizing campaign which is comprehensive (e.g., uses most or all of the traditional organizing tactics).\n\nOther sources exhibit confusion over the term \"comprehensive campaign\" because they lack knowledge about the state of labor union organizing. In some cases, writers do not appear to understand what a comprehensive campaign is, and equate the term with community campaign or corporate campaign.\n\nSubsequently, use of the term \"comprehensive campaign\" varies widely among labor activists, employers, attorneys or academics. This may cause confusion when an author or speaker refers to a comprehensive campaign but means something more restricted. Context is often the key to determining exactly what a person means, and speeches and written works must be closely read to determine the actual meaning of the descriptive phrase used.\n\nComprehensive campaigns contain a number of different elements. Some or all of them may be used, and use varies over time and according to circumstances. According to labor union strategists, use of a given element is dictated by strategy and research.\n\nThere may be one or more goals to a comprehensive campaign. Most often, the goal is to form a union at an employer's workplace or multiple workplaces simultaneously. In organizing, the goal of the comprehensive campaign may be to encourage the employer to recognize the union without recourse to a National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) election, to sign a neutrality agreement or code of conduct for the organizing election, to agree to hold an election under the auspices of a neutral third-party, or to recognize the union once it was won an NLRB-sponsored election.\n\nOne or all of these may be the goal of the comprehensive organizing campaign.\n\nComprehensive campaigns are not limited to organizing, however. They may also be aimed at winning an initial or successor collective bargaining agreement, or to achieve a collective bargaining goal or goals (such as a union security clause). Comprehensive campaigns have also been used to prevent plant closings, prevent plant openings, or to encourage the employer to take some action (such as opposing a business competitor, withdrawing support for legislation, etc.).\n\nComprehensive campaigns vary in length. Many elements of a comprehensive campaign take one or more years to be effective. Subsequently, comprehensive campaigns are often expected to last over many years. But they may last only months or only one or two, if the union's goals are achieved quickly.\n\nComprehensive campaigns are notoriously expensive, and require significant lead-time to initiate. Many labor union activists advocate a six-month research effort before the comprehensive campaign begins, making it difficult to properly undertake a comprehensive campaign once a strike or negotiations have begun.\n\nVarious elements make up a comprehensive campaign. Chief among these is research. Research into the employer's finances, business strategy, governance, structure, leadership, board of directors, vendors and suppliers, building plans, staffing, billing, and operations (among other things) occurs six months or more before the comprehensive campaign begins. Research into other areas, such as state law and regulatory regimes, community demographics, workplace health and safety, local and state labor union strength, political support and other non-employer issues also occurs. Although the most intense research phase begins before the comprehensive campaign is publicly announced, research continues throughout the comprehensive campaign. Comprehensive campaigns are research-driven: The information discovered is analyzed, assessed and fit into short- and long-term strategies, which then drive additional research as well as dictate the pace, timing, and actions undertaken in the media, legal, community and other realms.\n\nForging ties and working relations with other groups—the community campaign—is a secondary but vital component of the comprehensive campaign. The goal of the community campaign element varies, depending on the research outcomes. Community campaign tactics may merely extend to coordinating publicity and or joint lobbying, but may also encompass boycotts, information-gathering, electoral politics, educating the community about labor unions, enhancing or impugning reputations, viral marketing and more. Establishing community-based \"workers' rights boards\"—led by prominent religious or civic leaders—or other investigatory bodies is also common.\n\nAnother element of the comprehensive campaign is writing, introducing and seeking the passage of local, county, state or federal legislation inimical to the employer's business interests. Such legislation may be aimed at the business interests of suppliers, vendors, customers, subsidiaries or co-owners as well. The goal of legislative activity may merely be to force the employer to divert resources to lobbying, election politics or other legislative activity, or it may be to enact legislation. Proposed legislation may be as broad as universal healthcare or comprehensive workplace safety laws or as narrow as requiring the employer to collect and publicly report information which is not otherwise available (and which the union may later analyze and use).\n\nAn extensive publicity effort is a second and subsidiary, although vital, aspect of the comprehensive campaign. Publicity—often called \"the air war\"—is one of the primary vehicles by which information gleaned from employer research may be used. The use of \"white papers\", press conferences, advertising (in all media) or the distribution of research (independent or not) often is an important aspect of the publicity campaign. The creative release of information to the public is increasing. Demonstrations, the use of street theater and music, picketing, leafleting, bannering and disruptive tactics (such as projecting images on a plant's walls at night or using \"human flies\" to climb buildings and hang banners) are increasingly common means of attracting public attention in an age where information overload is common. Although the timing and duration of the \"air war\" varies widely, experience suggests that the publicity campaign takes up half to two-thirds of the comprehensive campaign timeline.\n\nA third vital, but secondary, element is traditional organizing. Known as \"the ground war\" in the labor movement, traditional organizing often occurs late in a comprehensive campaign. In part, this is because research, publicity, building community coalitions, legislative work, legal pressure and other elements of the comprehensive campaign are time-consuming and not immediately effective. But \"the ground war\" is also staff-intensive (which is to say, expensive), so it is often implemented only in the final stages of the campaign, when the employer has been so weakened that success becomes more likely than not. Research also suggests that workers cannot be \"activated\" for long periods of time without encountering burnout or discouragement. Hence, the \"ground war\" is saved for the final stage of the comprehensive campaign.\n\nThere are other, lesser, elements which make up comprehensive campaigns as well.\n\n\"The inside game,\" in which workers apply pressure from within, may also form part of the comprehensive campaign. \"The inside game\" consists of activities which can be done on the shop floor or in the workplace. They can be as varied as symbolic demonstrations, petitioning a supervisor for changes, filing strategic grievances, slowdowns or working to rule.\n\nA legal strategy also plays an important role in the comprehensive campaign. Part of the legal strategy may use labor laws to cause the employer to divert management resources to employee relations and away from the anti-union effort. This may involve the strategic filing of unfair labor practice charges or grievances, picketing, leafleting or bannering. Advantage is often taken of workplace health and safety laws, with unions filing health and safety or environmental complaints against the employer. Business and professional licensure, zoning procedures, building permitting and other laws and regulations may also be advantageously (and legitimately) used to hinder, harass and influence the employer to recognize the union, negotiate a contract, or achieve other goals.\n\nAs globalization has become more prevalent, international activity has also become an increasingly prominent element of comprehensive campaigns. In many ways, the building of international coalitions of trade unions, environmental groups, consumer federations and others has been an element of comprehensive campaigns since the mid-1980s. American labor unions had little occasion to engage in international activity in the past. In the 2000s, international coalition-building—especially with unions in Western Europe (who represent workers at, and have strong working relationships with, the parent companies of American subsidiaries)—became far more important in the U.S.\n\nWithin the American labor movement, there is widespread agreement that comprehensive campaigns—while expensive, time-consuming, and labor-intensive—are effective ways to encourage employers to recognize unions, negotiate collective bargaining agreements and achieve similar union goals.\n\nRecent studies indicate that comprehensive campaigns are highly effective at not only countering union-avoidance efforts and anti-union campaigns, but at winning NLRB-sponsored organizing elections:\n\nOther research is less sanguine, arguing that comprehensive campaigns are most effective only in the context of collective bargaining context. Some preliminary research suggests that comprehensive campaigns tend to fail more often in organizing drives, and appear to have little effect as a non-strike weapon.\n\nLabor unions are deeply concerned with the viability of the local organization which emerges from an organizing drive. The process by which potential members are educated about unions and the labor movement, local leaders are trained, and effective, democratic organizations established is known as \"union-building.\" It is well-recognized that some successful organizing techniques build strong unions, while other, equally successful techniques, do not.\n\nSome early evidence suggests that comprehensive campaigns build strong unions. Weakened employers are unable to counter newly built unions, providing union leaders and members with a much less steep learning curve. Some scholars also find that union members involved in comprehensive campaigns are more active in the collective bargaining process and in the life and culture of the new union.\n\nBut other studies find that corporate campaigns are too staff-intensive and discourage member activism. One early analysis showed that comprehensive campaigns tend to be used only against companies that produce brand-name consumer products or that are service-oriented. These campaigns focus heavily on public pressure to force the employer to recognize the union, and fail to engage rank-and-file workers in the development and analysis of research, strategizing, campaign implementation and the \"ground war.\"\n\nComprehensive campaigns emerged in the 1970s.\n\nThe first true comprehensive campaign (which utilized, to some degree, all of the elements described herein) occurred in the mid-1970s. Ray Rogers, a staff organizer with the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America (ACWA), ran a comprehensive campaign against J.P. Stevens, a large textile manufacturer in the South. The union eventually organized more than 3,000 Stevens workers at 10 plants. The organizing drive was featured in the Academy Award-winning film \"Norma Rae\" in 1979.\n\nA second major comprehensive campaign occurred roughly a decade later. In 1984, the Oil, Chemical and Atomic Workers International Union (OCAW) waged a comprehensive campaign against the German chemical company BASF. OCAW mounted a campaign that involved environmental groups and unions in West Germany, and ultimately pressured BASF to end the lockout and sign a contract.\n\nThat same year, a corporate campaign run by the Farm Labor Organizing Committee (FLOC), AFL-CIO, ended a six-year strike and boycott and won the union its first contract. In 1978, 2,000 FLOC members walked off their jobs in the Midwest. While some growers were willing to negotiate, big canners such as the Campbell Soup Company were unwilling to pay the higher prices which would accompany a unionized workforce. FLOC initiated a boycott of Campbell's. Six years later, not much had changed. In 1984, FLOC asked Ray Rogers (who had left ACWA and founded a consulting firm that helped unions run comprehensive campaigns) for help. Rogers developed a comprehensive campaign strategy which included a well-publicized demonstration at a Campbell Soup shareholder meeting and targeted three members of Campbell's board of directors for economic pressure. In February 1986, Campbell and its growers recognized FLOC as the workers' representative and signed a collective bargaining agreement which provided for wage increases, grievance resolution, insurance, and committees to study pesticide safety, housing, health care, and day care issues. Shortly thereafter, FLOC reached deals with Vlasic, Heinz, Green Bay Foods (now part of Dean Foods), Aunt Jane's (now part of Dean Foods) and Dean Foods.\n\nThe first widely acknowledged failure of a comprehensive campaign occurred in 1985. Under pressure from international competition, the U.S. meat packing industry had seen one major bankruptcy and a number of plant closings. In 1984, six of the eight major United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) locals in the Hormel chain prepared to re-negotiate wages under wage re-opener. In July, all locals except Local P-9 in Austin, Minnesota, agreed to strike Hormel in September. But by that time, all the locals except P-9 had reached an agreement setting wages at $9.00 an hour, with a $1.00-an-hour increase to occur in 1985. In October 1984, Hormel reduced wages at the Austin plant from $10.69 to $8.25 an hour. Local P-9 subsequently hired Ray Rogers to run a comprehensive campaign to restore wages to their former level. But in December 1984, UFCW refused to support the comprehensive campaign. The workers struck in August 1985. UFCW initially supported the strike, but refused to sanction a boycott of Hormel products. In January 1986, Hormel re-opened the Minnesota plant with replacement workers, and the strike—and the local—collapsed. The Hormel strike was featured in the 1990 Academy Award-winning documentary \"American Dream\".\n\nComprehensive campaigns began attracting academic attention in 1985. The first known publication of a work examining comprehensive campaigns was Lawrence Mishel's article, \"Strengths and Limits of Non-Workplace Strategies,\" published in the Fall 1985 issue of \"Labor Research Review.\"\nAnother important comprehensive campaign failed in 1988. In June 1987, workers at the International Paper company mill in Androscoggin, Maine struck to resist company-demanded concessions. Led by Maine AFL-CIO organizer Peter Kellman, the moribund local became a hotbed of worker activism and community organizing. However, inadequate protections of federal labor law and internal union politics (especially those at international union headquarters as well as rivalries between the local union and its parent) led the parent union to refuse to fund the comprehensive campaign. After the company hired replacement workers, the strike ultimately failed.\n\nA comprehensive campaign helped the United Steelworkers (USW) win a contract at . In November 1990, Ravenswood Aluminum locked out 1,700 employees as their contract expired and hired replacement workers. USW began a comprehensive campaign which involved a heavy research component. USW eventually publicized the plant's poor safety record, applied political pressure in Congress to protect the domestic aluminum smelting industry, and discovered that Ravenswood Aluminum was controlled by fugitive billionaire Marc Rich. The campaign is notable because of the extensive international pressure the USW brought to bear on Ravenswood and for the creative legal strategies the union employed. Most importantly, however, the Ravenswood effort showed that, properly undertaken and financed, a comprehensive campaign could put so much pressure on an employer that even recourse to permanent replacements could not defeat the union (as the tactic had at Hormel and International Paper).\n\nIn 1993, UFCW undertook a comprehensive campaign in the food industry. The UFCW had conducted a decade-long organizing effort against Food Lion, a nonunion chain of warehouse-style grocery stores. By the early 1990s, however, UFCW became convinced that traditional organizing methods were no longer working, and the union initiated a comprehensive campaign. An essential part of the union strategy was an innovative class-action lawsuit by about 400 current and former Food Lion workers, who alleged they had been forced by their employer to work off-the-clock. Eventually, the United States Department of Labor fined Food Lion, which delivered $16 million in back-pay to the workers. UFCW quickly undertook a second class-action suit, in which workers claimed wrongful termination and violation of COBRA rights. Again, UFCW was successful. However, Food Lion retaliated by filing a $300 million lawsuit against its workers and UFCW for violating the federal RICO Act. Although Food Lion's lawsuit was eventually dismissed, UFCW was unable to organized the workers, achieve recognition of the union or negotiate a collective bargaining agreement.\n\nBy 1996, comprehensive campaigns had drawn the attention of Congress. Rep. Pete Hoekstra (R--Mich.) introduced legislation to outlaw union corporate campaign tactics. Hearings were held, but the legislation died in subcommittee.\n\nMore recent examples of comprehensive campaigns include those waged by SEIU and its Justice for Janitors campaign against custodial firms, the Teamsters against Quebecor World, UNITE HERE against the laundry company Cintas, and SEIU and UFCW against Wal-Mart. There are reports that SEIU is beginning a comprehensive campaign which involves hospitals and other healthcare providers in and around Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nCritics of labor unions argue that comprehensive campaigns violate the spirit, if not letter, of federal labor law. They claim that comprehensive campaigns ignore the established policies and election procedures of the National Labor Relations Act (NLRA), and that—through the use of neutrality and card check agreements—they violate workers' freedom of speech and choice. Some critics argue further that, absent the protection of federal labor law, employees are coerced or misled into signing union authorization cards (e.g., duped into forming a union which can then not be dislodged). A second, but related, criticism is that comprehensive campaigns organize a workplace because union bosses want it organized, not because workers want a union.\n\nMany emerging arguments against comprehensive campaigns are legal in nature. For example, a number of employers have asserted that unions file frivolous lawsuits as part of such efforts, clogging the courts, taking the organizing process out of workers' hands and putting it into those of judges, and diverting resources from useful and efficient causes to \"wasteful\" legal causes.\n\nA second legal claim is that comprehensive campaigns are not protected activity under the NLRA. In 1958, the Supreme Court ruled in \"NLRB v. Wooster Division of Borg-Warner Corp.,\" 356 U.S. 342, that unions are prohibited from striking over subjects of bargaining not encompassed by \"wages, hours, and other terms or conditions of employment\" (the phrase used in the NLRA). Legal critics of comprehensive campaigns claim that the \"Borg-Warner\" ruling prohibits unions from exercising economic pressure against an employer when that pressure is not explicitly and directly aimed at changing the terms and conditions of employment.\n\nA third legal argument is that comprehensive campaigns run afoul of federal and state RICO statutes, which prohibit racketeering. \"Perhaps the most interesting and significant of the predicate acts likely to be present in a corporate campaign is state law blackmail, which is a species of extortion. Indeed, applying RICO to corporate campaigns comes down, in large measure, to understanding the crime of blackmail under state law, and recognizing that—legally speaking—corporate campaigns are, at bottom, a pattern of blackmail.\" In the Steelworkers' comprehensive campaign against Bayou Steel, the employer filed a federal RICO action which, although settled before a judge had ruled, \"forced the union to devote extensive staff and financial resources to defend themselves, distracting attention and energy from the <nowiki>[comprehensive]</nowiki> campaign itself.\" In October 2007, Smithfield Foods filed a RICO suit against UFCW over that union's campaign to organize 4,600 workers, and Wackenhut sued SEIU over a campaign to organize that company's security guards.\n\nA fourth legal argument is that comprehensive campaigns violate federal anti-trust law. As unions work with other organizations, it is claimed that they form, essentially, a commercial enterprise which seeks to economically dominate the market much in the same way that a monopoly does. In support of this claim, critics note that the Supreme Court has read the Sherman, Clayton and Norris-LaGuardia acts in such a way that unions are held exempt from federal antitrust laws but only so long as a union acts in its own self-interest and does not lose its primary character as a labor union by combining with other, non-labor groups or organizations. In crafting community and comprehensive campaigns, critics say, unions lose their exemption under these acts.\n\nComprehensive campaigns are not universally supported within labor unions. These union-side critics point out a number of problems with comprehensive campaigns.\n\nFirst, they argue that comprehensive campaigns undermine the nature of collective activity (e.g., the union). Unions, these critics claim, are democratic organizations which empower members so that they may establish their own goals in the workplace and seek to meet them. The comprehensive campaign, however, replaces worker activism and involvement with staff-driven organizations. Instead of a powerful local union, the comprehensive campaign relies on the power of organizational partners in the community campaign. Worst of all, the comprehensive campaign diverts attention away from employees' goals and needs and toward the economic weaknesses of the employer, and It also subordinates the timing of the organizing drive to court calendars.\n\nSecond, such critics argue that comprehensive campaigns waste valuable union resources by engaging in costly litigation. Lawsuits in state or federal court are far more expensive than the hearings and adjudications held under the auspices of the NLRB, and take longer to resolve. In an era in which the employer's primary advantage over the union is financial, critics say, shifting the focus of the organizing drive to the courts exposes the union to high legal costs. In the Food Lion comprehensive campaign, for example, the UFCW paid over $1 million in legal fees litigating its two class-action suits.\n\nThird, some critics allege that the legal strategies of comprehensive campaigns leave workers, unions and elected labor leaders open to legal retaliation. Increasingly, they point out, workers and unions are being sued for libel, slander, tortious business interference and a variety of other state and federal claims which carry heavy fines. Even labor scholars who have spoken publicly about employer misbehavior have been sued. A more conservative organizing approach would be less litigious and less costly.\n\nA fourth, related, legal argument against comprehensive campaigns is that their elements may be used against unions as well. Union leaders, like their corporate counterparts, may engage in insider-dealing, have conflicts of interest, or engage in questionable or embarrassing financial expenditures. For example, a CEO's high pay may be the subject of a comprehensive campaign's publicity effort. But then, so may a union president's high salary. Lawsuits are not the only domain of unions; employers may seek to pre-empt union legal action by filing suits against unions first. They may choose a venue (such as a state court) where judges are less experienced or a court which has proven historically favorable to business claims. Too few unions assess the risks of a \"counter-attack\" by businesses, critics argue, and end up in trouble themselves.\n\nFinally, an emerging union-side argument against comprehensive campaigns is that legal action may expose the union's internal operations and strategies to employer scrutiny. Many legal actions, whether initiated by a union or an employer, turn on questions of fact. Employers can make plausible arguments for extensive discovery. In at least one case, an employer has used discovery procedures to force the union to disclose pro-union supporters within the workplace, the number of organizers working on the campaign, its organizing strategies, its organizing budget and the amount and kind of information it had collected regarding the employer. Unions, critics say, can ill-afford to have such information made known to employers, especially during an organizing campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "19553150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19553150", "title": "Environment Prize (German Environment Foundation)", "text": "Environment Prize (German Environment Foundation)\n\nThe Deutsche Bundesstiftung Umwelt Environment Prize (\"German environment prize\") is a prize awarded in Germany. Worth 500000 € it is the most valuable in Europe from an environmental foundation.\n\nThe \"Bundesstiftung Umwelt\" foundation is based in Osnabrück; the prize has been awarded since 1993.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11024909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11024909", "title": "Estelle v. Gamble", "text": "Estelle v. Gamble\n\nEstelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97 (1976), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States established the standard of what a prisoner must plead in order to claim a violation of Eighth Amendment rights under 42 U.S.C. § 1983. Specifically, the Court held that a prisoner must allege acts or omissions sufficiently harmful to evidence deliberate indifference to serious medical needs. Though the Court credited Gamble's complaint that doctors had failed to provide appropriate care, it held that medical malpractice did not rise to the level of \"cruel and unusual punishment\" simply because the victim is a prisoner.\n\nJ. W. Gamble was a state prisoner within the Texas Department of Corrections who was given a prison labor assignment loading and unloading cotton bales from a truck. On November 9, 1973, he injured his back when a cotton bale fell on him. Over the next three months, he complained of back and chest pains, was subject to administrative segregation for refusing to work, and ultimately was treated for an irregular heartbeat. \n\nOn February 11, 1974, Gamble initiated his lawsuit \"pro se\" by submitting a handwritten document.\n\nThe Court found for the defendant because it viewed his failure to receive proper medical care as \"inadvertent\". The case nevertheless established the principle that the deliberate and failure of prison authorities to address the medical needs of an inmate constitutes \"cruel and unusual punishment\". It held that \"deliberate indifference to serious medical needs of prisoners constitutes the 'unnecessary and wanton infliction of pain'...proscribed by the Eighth Amendment.\"\n\nThe Supreme Court in 1993 extended the requirement that inmates receive required medical care beyond what it established in \"Estelle\". In \"Helling v. McKinney\", the Court considered the case of a Nevada prisoner, \"the cellmate of a five-pack-a-day smoker,\" who sought to be housed in an environment free of second-hand smoke. McKinney suffered from no ailment and sought no medical treatment. Justice Byron White wrote for a 7−2 majority of the Court that McKinney's claim that prison officials \"have, with deliberate indifference, exposed him to levels of ETS [second hand smoke] that pose an unreasonable risk of serious damage to his future health\" raised a valid claim under the Eighth Amendment. He wrote that McKinney would have to prove both the scientific facts of the dangers of exposure to second-hand smoke and prove that community standards supported him, that \"it violates contemporary standards of decency to expose \"anyone\" unwillingly to such a risk. In other words, the prisoner must show that the risk of which he complains is not one that today's society chooses to tolerate.\" He would also have to prove that prison officials acted with deliberate indifference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "844568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=844568", "title": "Fufu", "text": "Fufu\n\nFufu (variants of the name include foofoo, fufuo, foufou) is a staple food common in many countries in West Africa such as Sierra Leone,Ghana, Liberia and Nigeria. It is often made in the traditional Ghanaian and Nigerian method by mixing and pounding separate equal portions of cassava and green plantain flour thoroughly with water. It is then adjusted to either increase or decrease the viscosity of the fufu depending on personal preferences. Other flours, such as semolina, maize flour or mashed plantains may take the place of cassava flour. Fufu is often served with groundnut soup, palm nut soup or light soup.\n\nThe traditional method is to boil starchy food crops like cassava, yams or plantains and cocoyams and then pound them into a dough-like consistency. Fufu is eaten with the fingers, and a small ball of it can be dipped into an accompanying soup or sauce. Foods made in this manner are known by different names in different places.\n\nPortuguese traders introduced the cassava to Africa from Brazil in the 16th century. In Ghana, fufu, also known as fufuo, is white and sticky (if plantain is not mixed with the cassava when pounding). The traditional method of eating fufu is to pinch some of the fufu off in one's right hand fingers and form it into an easily ingested round ball. The ball is then dipped in the soup before being eaten.\n\nIn Côte d'Ivoire, the word “\"foutou\"” is also used. Ivorian “\"foufou\"” is specifically sweet mashed bananas, whereas the “foutou” is a stronger, heavier pasta made of various staple foods such as yam, cassava, banana, taro or a mix of any of those.\n\nIn the French-speaking regions of Cameroon, it is called “\"couscous\"” (not to be confused with the North African dish couscous).\n\nA similar staple in the African Great Lakes region is ugali. It is usually made from maize flour (masa), and is also eaten in Southern Africa. The name ugali is used to refer to the dish in Kenya and Tanzania. Closely related staples are called nshima in Zambia, nsima in Malawi, sadza in Zimbabwe, pap or vuswa in South Africa, posho in Uganda, luku, fufu, nshima, moteke, semoule, ugali and bugari in the Republic of the Congo and in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and phaletšhe in Botswana.\n\nIn Caribbean nations with substantial populations of West African origin, such as Cuba, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Puerto Rico, plantains, yuca or yams are mashed with other delectable ingredients (\"fufú nigeriano\"). In Cuba, the dish retains its original African stem name, termed simply as \"fufú\" or with added descriptive extensions like \"fufú de platano\" or \"fufú de platano pintón.\" On other major islands, \"fufú\" goes by the names of mangú in the Dominican Republic, mofongo in Puerto Rico and bammy in Jamaica. What distinguishes the Caribbean \"fufú\" from its West African relative is a firmer texture with stronger flavors. As it moves away from Cuba, the \"fufú's\" core is less a gelatinous dough and more of a consistent mass.\n\nPuerto Rican mofongo in keeping with the creolized cuisine traditions of the Caribbean tends toward a \"fufú\" of much higher density and robust seasoning. While keeping a conspicuous African character, mofongo has borrowed from the island's Iberian culinary tradition, to create a dish made of fried green plantains, yucca or breadfruit. Unlike the mushier Caribbean and West African \"fufús\", mofongo is generally firmer and crustier.\nTo prepare mofongo, green plantains are deep-fried once unlike twice fried tostones. Next, they are mashed in a 'pilon' ( mortar ) with chopped garlic, salt, black pepper and olive oil. The resulting mash is then pressed and rounded into a hollowed crusty orb. Meat, traditionally \"chicharrón\", is then stuffed into the chunky ball of fried green plantains. A few recipes call for a meat or vegetable \"salsa criolla\" \"(related to American Creole sauce) poured on top of the hot sphere. In the trendier \"mofongo relleno,\" typical of western Puerto Rico, seafood is all over, inside and outside. Traditional mofongo, as previously cited, comes seasoned and stuffed with meat and bathed in a chicken broth soup. Because of its elaborate process of preparation and its sundry ingredients, poet and blogger Arose N Daghetto called the mofongo a type of \"fufú paella\" and branded it as \"the big daddy of fufús.\"\"\"\n\nThe vegetable or fufú sauce in the Anglo-Caribbean is not fried first. Plantain is not used as much, as it is used in so many dishes. Fufu is usually part of, or added to, a soupy sauce or on the side with a soupy dish. In Antigua, fufu is served as part of the national dish but is called fungi/fungee and is made using cornmeal and okra. Similarly, in Barbados it serves as part of the national dish and is called \"cou cou\" and uses cornmeal or, less commonly, breadfruit instead, like several other English Caribbean islands. In Haiti it is called \"tum tum and Foofoo\". It is mostly made of breadfruit but can be made of plantain or yams and is usually served with an okra based stew or soup.\n\nFufu is believed to originate in what is modern-day Ghana, by the Asante, the Akuapem, the Guans, the Akyem, the Bono and the Fante peoples of the Akan ethnic group of Ghana. Today, it also features in Togolese cuisine Guinean cuisine, Cameroonian cuisine, as well as Nigerian cuisine.\n\nFufu’s prevalence in the West African subregion has been noted in literature produced by authors from that area. It is mentioned in Chinua Achebe’s \"Things Fall Apart\", for example.\n\nIn Ghana, pieces of boiled cassava or other tubers are pounded together in a giant wooden mortar using a wooden pestle. In between blows from the pestle, the mixture is turned by hand and water gradually added till it becomes slurry and sticky. The mixture is then formed into a ball or a rounded slab and served. With the invention of the fufu machine preparation has become much less labour-intensive. \nNutritionally, 100 g dry weight fufu contains 2 g of protein, 0.1 g of fat and 84 g of carbohydrate. There are 267 kcal of food energy in a 100 g serving made up with water. It is very low in cholesterol. It is very rich in potassium, and it is commonly prescribed by doctors for people who have low level of potassium in their blood.\n\n"}
{"id": "26440279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26440279", "title": "Fuqing dialect", "text": "Fuqing dialect\n\nFuqing dialect (福清話, BUC: Hók-chiăng-uâ, IPA: ), or Hokchia, is an Eastern Min dialect. It is spoken in the county-level city of Fuqing, situated within the prefecture-level city of Fuzhou. It is not completely mutually intelligible with Fuzhou dialect.\n\nThe Fuqing dialect has fifteen initials, forty-six rimes, and seven tones.\n\nIncluding the null initial, the Fuqing dialect has fifteen initials, excluding the phonemes [β] and [ʒ], which are only used in connected spoken speech.\n\n(The Chinese characters represent the sample characters taken from the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\" (《戚林八音》, Foochow Romanized: Chék Lìng Báik-ĭng), while the Latin letters are from the orthography Foochow Romanized).\n\n[θ] is a voiceless dental fricative, which some pronounce as [s].\n\n[ts], [tsʰ] and [s] palatalize to [tɕ], [tɕʰ], [ɕ] before finals that begin with /y/, the close front rounded vowel (i.e. before the finals [y], [yo/yɔ], [yoŋ/yɔŋ], [yoʔ/yɔʔ]).\n\nIncluding the syllabic nasal consonant [ŋ], the Fuqing dialect has forty-six rimes in total. Apart from [ŋ] and [iau], all rimes have a close/open distinction.\n\nThe rime before the slash is the close or tense rime (緊韻、窄韻), while after the slash is the open or lax rime (鬆韻、寬韻). The Chinese characters represent the sample characters taken from the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\" (《戚林八音》, Foochow Romanized: Chék Lìng Báik-ĭng. Within the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\", the ru rimes are assigned under the corresponding yang rimes; hence, the sample characters for yang and ru rimes are the same. The Latin letters are from the orthography Foochow Romanized).\n\nThe rime [iau] only has one syllable [ŋiau] , and is not found in the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\"; furthermore, Foochow Romanized does not have a way to represent this syllable.\n\nIn the modern Rongcheng dialect, the rime [iu/ieu] has now merged into [ieu/iɐu] and is no longer distinguished. Also in the new Rongcheng dialect, the rime [ui/uoi] has merged into [uoi/uɐi]. The syllabic nasal [ŋ] in the modern Rongcheng dialect is read as [iŋ]; some sources have not yet listed this final in their charts.\n\nThe Fuqing dialect has seven tones, with the Middle Chinese four tone categories of level/even (平), departing (去) and entering (入) all divided into dark (陰) and light (陽) categories. The names and the sequence of the seven tones are outlined below, as listed in the traditional rime dictionary \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\":\nThe dark level (陰平 Ĭng-bìng) tone falls the most sharply; although the light departing (陽去 Iòng-ké̤ṳ) tone is also a high falling tone, its fall in pitch is not as dramatic.\n\nAdditionally, the Fuqing dialect contains the neutral tone in colloquial speech, which in tone sandhi produces a new tone contour, one that rises ([˧˥ (35)]).\n\nThe phenomenon of close and open rime alternation (also known as tense and lax rimes; in Chinese \"寬窄韻現象\", \"鬆、緊韻現象\" or \"本韻、變韻現象\") is one found throughout the dialects of cities and villages in the traditional Fuzhou area (the ten towns of Fuzhou, 福州十邑). But it is not found in, for example, the dialects of Gutian (古田) and Luoyuan (羅源). The dialect of Fuqing, along with that of the urban area of Fuzhou, exhibits this phenomenon.\n\nAccording to the original listing of the rimes in the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\", the medial vowel did not change with the tones. But in the Fuqing dialect, when the rime is in either one of the departing tones or in the dark entering tone, the medial vowel changes to another, the rime being called the open rime. When in either of the two level tones, in the rising tone, or in the light entering tone, the rime this time does not change; this rime is called the close rime. In the Fuqing dialect, with the exception of [ŋ] and [iau], all rimes exhibit this close-open alternation.\n\nAs an example, the rime from \"春\" in the \"Qī Lín Bāyīn\", lists the two rimes: [uŋ] and [uk]. In the Gutian dialect, the same vowel is preserved in the rime [u], regardless of tone. But in the Fuqing dialect, the rime [uŋ] in the dark departing (陰去) and light departing (陽去) tones changes to [oŋ], where the vowel in the final [u] has become [o]. Similarly, [uʔ] in the upper departing (上入) tone becomes the open rime [oʔ], where the vowel has again changed.\nWithin the Fuqing dialect, the open rime's vowel is always more open (alias 'lower') by a degree than the close rime. For example, 知 is read [ti] as a close rime, with the close vowel [i]. Listed as the same rime but in a different tone (i.e. light departing 陽去) is 地, which is instead read as [te], an open rime with the half-close vowel [e]. This is more open than [i] by one degree. All close rimes becomes their corresponding open rimes according to this rule.\n\nThe Fuqing dialect has a particularly rich set of phonetic changes. The pronunciation of a particular Chinese character under certain circumstances can undergo changes in its initial, its rime, and its tone. For example, the word 兄弟哥 (brother, Standard Mandarin: 兄弟) is made of the three words 兄 , 弟 and 哥 , but is actually pronounced as 兄弟哥 . Within this word, the first syllable 兄 has undergone tone sandhi and has thus changed tone; the last syllable 哥 has lost its initial consonant; and the rime of the middle syllable 弟 has changed in both vowel and tone. Within lexical or semantic items, the three features of initial, rime and tone are subject to sandhi phenomena. In colloquial Fuqing speech, this type of change is very frequently encountered, but is rare in Chinese as a whole.\n\nIn colloquial Fuqing speech, the initial consonants of Chinese characters or syllables are subject to change under specific circumstances within lexical items. The first modern work to examine the phonology of the Fuzhou dialect, the Mǐnyīn Yánjiū (閩音研究) used the term \"initial assimilation\" (in ) to refer to this phenomenon. The Fuqing dialect contains two voiced initial consonants, /β/ and /ʒ/, that only appear through initial assimilation.\n\nInitial assimilation in the Fuqing dialect occurs in polysyllabic lexemes (i.e. lexical items or words of two or more syllables or Chinese characters) and certain semantic groups. Usually within these groups, all syllables apart from the first undergo initial assimilation. But if the initial of the following syllable is a nasal or /l/ , then the initial assimilation does not occur at that point. Not every phrase will undergo initial assimilation, and the ones that do may differ from their counterparts in the other Min Dong varieties. \n\nThe syllable that undergoes initial assimilation is the \"latter character\"; that which precedes it is the \"former character\". Initial assimilation in the Fuqing dialect consists of three types: voicing, nasalisation/nasal assimilation and suppression. The rime of the former character determines the type of assimilation of the latter character's initial.\nWhich voiced consonant or nasal consonant or whether the consonant is suppressed depends on the place of articulation of the latter syllable's initial.\n\nType A dentals after voicing assimilation do not become the standard [l] , but are slightly flapped \n\nAs with the majority of southern varieties of Chinese, the Fuqing dialect exhibits tone sandhi. The phenomenon of tone sandhi in the Fuqing dialect contains a whole set of rules to be followed, but it is still rather complex: one tone can undergo different changes depending on what tone follows it. For example, the light entering (陽入) tone in front of the dark departing (陰去) tone becomes ˩˩ (11), but in front of a rising tone (上聲) it becomes ˥˥ (55); and in front of the dark entering (陰入) tone it becomes ˨˩ (21).\n\nIn many local dialects of the Fuzhou area (within the Eastern Min family), the last syllable of a word does not undergo tone sandhi. However, in the Fuqing dialect, the last syllable's tone does change under certain circumstances.\n\nBelow is a full table for the tone sandhi on two syllable domains for the main \"new\" Rongcheng pronunciation of the Fuqing dialect: \n\nAside from words composed of two syllables (or binomes), those composed of three syllables also undergo tone sandhi. \nWithin polysyllabic words (of two or more syllables) or characters within one sense unit, if in the departing tone (both light departing and dark departing) or in the dark entering tone, and if it is not the last character in the unit, the rime undergoes a transformation. This rime change is related to the open/close rime phenomenon: as these three tones only have open rimes, when the character changes tone through tone sandhi, the open rimes will become the corresponding close rimes.\nHence /tsʰiaŋ˥˧/「清」being light level tone has a close rime, so although it is in a non-final position within the group, its rime does not change. On the other hand, /hoʔ˩˨/「福」 is light entering tone, while /keiŋ˦˨/「縣」 is dark departing tone; both characters hence have open rimes. As 「福」 is in a non-final position in its group, its rime changes;「縣」 is the last character and so resists the change.\n\nThe Fuqing dialect is divided into three branches, based on their phonology:\n\nThe Rongcheng branch () includes an area covering the city center, as well as the towns of Dongzhang (東張鎮), Jingyang (鏡洋鎮), Yuxi (漁溪鎮), Shangjing (上逕鎮), Haikou (海口鎮), Chengtou (城頭鎮), Nanling (南嶺鎮), Longtian (龍田鎮), Jiangjing (江鏡鎮) and parts of Xincuo (新厝鎮). The features of this branch include the following:\n\nThe Gaoshan branch () covers the towns of Gangtou (港頭鎮), Sanshan (三山鎮), Shapu (沙埔鎮), Gaoshan (高山鎮) and Donghan (東瀚鎮). It is characterized by：\n\nThe Jinyin branch just includes Jinyin Town。It is characterized by:\n\nThere is a high degree of mutual intelligibility between the three branches despite their differences, and the original Rongcheng dialect (now part of Yuping Road (玉屏街道) is well understood across the whole Fuqing region.\n\nThe Fuqing dialect has lost the voiced obstruents from Middle Chinese, has merged the final nasal consonants into one phoneme and similarly for the entering tone final stop consonant. But it has also preserved many readings from Middle Chinese: its pattern of entering tone readings greatly matches that of Middle Chinese, apart from the colloquial layer of character readings which has lost them.\n\nOld and Middle Chinese had a large array of voiced consonants, which are preserved in the Wu group of Chinese varieties, e.g. in the Suzhou dialect. But the Fuqing dialect has devoiced the obstruents, turning them into voiceless consonants, just as other Eastern Min varieties of Chinese have.\nThe Fuqing dialect does have two voiced obstruent phonemes, but these appear in connected speech, and are not part of the initials in the phonological system.\n\nThe 疑 initial of Middle Chinese, reconstructed as the velar nasal /ŋ/, has not been preserved by many modern varieties of Chinese. In standard Mandarin, the initial [ŋ] has been completely lost, with some having merged into the initial [n] (e.g. 牛、虐、擬 etc.). In Wu, Yue and Hakka, the [ŋ] initial with front vowels /i/ and /y/ will either be lost (hence merging into the 影 initial) or become another initial. But in the Fuqing dialect, the 疑 initial is preserved as [ŋ] in front of front and back vowels alike, with a few exceptions having merged into / m/. In some Mandarin varieties as well as Yue, a [ŋ] sound is added to the beginning of back vowels of the null initial class 影 (e.g. pronouncing 安 as [ŋan]), but in the Fuqing dialect the 影 initial always remains null.\n\nThe Middle Chinese 非 group is pronounced in the Fuqing dialect not with [f] but with [p], [pʰ] or [h]. For example,「發」 read as [puɔʔ], 「蜂」 read as [pʰuŋ], 「非 read as [hi]。\n\nA group in Middle Chinese corresponding to 知 is pronounced with alveolar consonants [t] or [tʰ], and not with retroflex affricates, for example,「知」 as [ti],「竹」 as [tøʔ],「重」 as [tʰyŋ].\n\nThe three nasal endings of Middle Chinese have become one velar nasal [ŋ] in the Fuqing dialect. The three departing tone voiceless stop endings also all became one velar stop [k], which was weakened to the glottal stop [ʔ].\nThe Fuqing dialect possesses just one tone derived from the historical rising tone (上聲) of Middle Chinese, the dark rising tone. The light rising tone merged with the light departing tone, with a split in those that started rising tone characters with voiced sonorants: in literary readings they grouped with light rising tone, whereas in colloquial readings these adopted the pattern of dark rising and became dark departing. For example,「老」 [lo32 / lɑu42] ,「雨」 [y32 / huɔ42], 「有」 [iu32 / ou42] etc.\n\nWhere in the rime book Qī Lín Bāyīn《戚林八音》 an entering tone character begins with an unvoiced consonant (e.g. the initials 花、嘉、歌、之、過、橋、奇), these lose their stop consonant ending in colloquial reading and thus merge with either light departing or dark level tones. In the Fuzhou dialect these preserve their identity as entering tone in the colloquial reading. Nevertheless, in literary reading these characters retain their identity as entering tone in Fuqing as well as in Fuzhou.\n\nThe Fuqing dialect has a rich source of variation in its split between literary and colloquial readings, with initials, rimes and tones being affected. They can be divided into seven types:\n\nUsually when there is a difference between literary and colloquial readings, the literary reading is used in reading and more literary compound words, whilst the colloquial one is used in vernacular speech, common surnames and local place names. For example, the common verb 聽 \"listen\" has the colloquial reading [tʰiaŋ˥˧], the surname 劉 (Liu in Mandarin) is pronounced [lau˦˦], and the place-name component 清 in the names of Minqing 閩清 and Fuqing 福清 are pronounced [tsʰiaŋ˥˧], though the name of Qingliu County 清流縣, being outside the Fuzhou area, uses the literary pronunciation. Literary pronunciations are also used in poetry, with some readings specifically used only in this context; additionally, neologisms generally use literary pronunciation.\n\nFuqing has had a long history of migration, with which has come a large number of different sources of vocabulary, creating several layers or lexical strata. One of the layers that the Fuqing dialect has is the Minyue language , which today remains as a source of colloquial vocabulary. Despite their common use, these vocabulary items often cannot be traced back to a Chinese root character. \n\nVocabulary derived from Old Chinese can be classified into two types. The first comes from migrants from the Three Kingdoms period, when people of the Eastern Wu migrated to Fujian, bringing the varieties of Wu and Chu. This layer is already extinct in the Chinese varieties spoken in the homelands of the Wu and Chu regions, but it is still found across the Min varieties of Fujian. The second type derives from the Northern and Southern Dynasties. Such vocabulary is often used in colloquial speech.\n\nThe lexical stratum from Middle Chinese derives from the Chinese spoken in the Tang dynasty, with some later additions from the Song dynasty, forming the principal literary layer.\n\nModern Standard Mandarin Chinese has also been source of vocabulary, via neologisms or formal compounds. Some such words are replaced by coinages from local roots, e.g. \"bicycle\", which in the Fuqing dialect is 骹踏車 instead of being directly cognate to the standard Mandarin 腳踏車. \n\nWith contact with foreign countries, there have also been loanwords from non-Chinese languages, such as 加蘇林 for \"gasoline/petroleum\", which in standard Mandarin would be 石油; also 馬臘加 (\"Malacca\", which is 馬六甲 in Mandarin). \n\nIn more modern times, the rise of new technologies, products and concepts has produced more direct loans from standard Mandarin，which may be used despite those sounds being rare in Fuqing dialect or even if there are Fuqing roots that could have been used. For example, a \"night school\" is 夜校, derived from standard Mandarin, and not 暝晡校 as would have been expected from native Fuqing dialect roots.\n\n"}
{"id": "39426115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39426115", "title": "Gender pay gap", "text": "Gender pay gap\n\nThe gender pay gap or gender wage gap is the average difference between the remuneration for men and women who are working. Women are generally paid less than men. There are two distinct numbers regarding the pay gap: \"unadjusted\" versus \"adjusted\" pay gap. The latter takes into account differences in hours worked, occupations chosen, education and job experience. For example, someone who takes time off (e.g. maternity leave) will likely not earn as much as someone who does not take time off from work. Factors like this contribute to lower yearly earnings for women; while the pay gap has narrowed over time, a gender pay gap still exists, even when controlling for these external factors. \"Unadjusted\" pay gaps are much higher. In the United States, for example the unadjusted average female's annual salary has commonly been cited as being 78% of the average male salary, compared to 88-93% for the adjusted average salary for college graduates.\n\nThe reasons for lower pay include both individual choice and other innate and external factors. An example of a voluntary choice is choosing to work part-time when full-time employment is available. An example of an involuntary choice is working a low-skill job because of an inability to access higher education. An example of an external factor is discrimination.\n\nThe gender pay gap can be a problem from a public policy perspective even when the reason for the gap is entirely voluntary, because it reduces economic output and means that women are more likely to be dependent upon welfare payments, especially in old age.\n\nA 2005 meta-analysis by Doris Weichselbaumer and Rudolf Winter-Ebmer of more than 260 published pay gap studies for over 60 countries found that, from the 1960s to the 1990s, raw wage differentials worldwide have fallen substantially from around 65% to 30%. The bulk of this decline, was due to better labor market endowments of women (i.e. better education, training, and work attachment).\n\nAnother meta-analysis of 41 empirical studies on the wage gap performed in 1998 found a similar time trend in estimated pay gaps, a decrease of roughly 1% per year.\n\nA 2011 study by the British CMI revealed that if pay growth continues for female executives at current rates, the gap between the earnings of female and male executives would not be closed until 2109.\n\nThe gender pay gap, or gender wage gap is the median or mean average difference between the remuneration for all working men and women in the sample chosen. It is typically represented as either a percentage or a ratio of the \"difference between average gross hourly [or annual] earnings of male and female employees as % of male gross earnings\".\n\nNational gender gaps are typically based on a sample from the entire working population of a country.\n\nNon-governmental organizations apply the calculation to various samples. For example, the gender pay gap by ethnicity, within a single organization or within organization to compare men and women on the same pay grade.\n\nComparing salary 'within rather than across' data sets helps to focus on a specific factor by controlling for other factors. For example to eliminate the role of horizontal and vertical segregation in the gender pay gap compare salary by gender within; a specific job functions. Focusing on a single geography eliminates transnational differences in the job market and cost of living differences.\n\nThe reasons for lower pay include both individual choice and other innate, and external environmental factors.\n\nAn example of a voluntary choice is choosing to work part-time when full-time employment is available. An example of an involuntary choice is working a low-skill job because of an inability to access higher education. An example of an external factor is discrimination.\nBoth gender-specific factors, including gender differences in qualifications and discrimination, and overall wage structure, the rewards for skills and employment in particular sectors, importantly influence the gender pay gap.\n\nClaims that women are \"less willing\" and having \"less ability\" to negotiate salaries and battle sexual discrimination \n\nThe European Commission divides discrimination, as it impacts the EU wage gap, into several categories. While \"direct discrimination\", when a woman is paid less than a man for the same job, exists, a more persistent problem is the undervaluing of women's work, with women being paid less for a job of equal value due to careers dominated by women being undervalued as a whole.\n\nOccupational segregation or \"horizontal segregation\" refers to inequality in pay associated with occupational earnings.\n\nIn Jacobs (1995), Boyd \"et al.\" refer to the horizontal division of labor as 'high-tech' (predominantly men) versus 'high-touch' (predominantly women) with high tech being more financially rewarding. Men are more likely to be in relatively high-paying, dangerous industries such as mining, construction, or manufacturing and to be represented by a union. Women, in contrast, are more likely to be in clerical jobs and to work in the service industry.\n\nA study of the US labor force in the 1990s suggested that these factors explain an estimated 53% of the wage gap. A 2017 study in the \"American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics\" found that the growing importance of the services sector has played a role in reducing the gender gap in pay and hours. In 1998, adjusting for both differences in human capital and in industry, occupation, and unionism increases the size of American women's average earnings from 80% of American men's to 91%.\n\nStudies have shown that an increasing share of the gender pay gap over time is due to children. The phenomenon of lower wages due to childbearing has been termed the motherhood penalty.\n\nMotherhood can affect job choices as well. In a traditional role, women are the ones who leave the workforce temporarily to take care of their children. As a result, women tend to take lower paying jobs because they are more likely to have more flexible timings compared to higher-paying jobs. Since women are more likely to work fewer hours than men, they have less experience, which will cause women to be behind in the work force.\n\nAnother social factor, which is related to the aforementioned one, is the socialization of individuals to adopt specific gender roles. Job choices influenced by socialization are often slotted in to \"demand-side\" decisions in frameworks of wage discrimination, rather than a result of extant labor market discrimination influencing job choice. Men that are in non-traditional job roles or jobs that are primarily seen as a women-focused jobs, such as nursing, have high enough job satisfaction that motivates the men to continue in these job fields despite criticism they may receive.\n\nAdditionally, in the eyes of employees, women in middle management are perceived to lack the courage, leadership, and drive that male managers appear to have, despite female middle managers achieving results on par with their male counterparts in terms of successful projects and achieving results for their employing companies. These perceptions, along with the factors previously described in the article, contribute to the difficulty of women to ascend to the executive ranks when compared to men in similar positions.\n\nSocietal ideas of gender roles stem somewhat from media influences. Media portrays ideals of gender-specific roles off of which gender stereotypes are built. These stereotypes then translate to what types of work men and women can or should do. In this way, gender plays a mediating role in work discrimination, and women find themselves in positions that do not allow for the same advancements as males.\n\nSome research suggests that women are more likely to volunteer for tasks that are less likely to help earn promotions,and that they are more likely to be asked to volunteer and more likely to say yes to such requests.\n\nThe gender pay gap can be a problem from a public policy perspective because it reduces economic output and means that women are more likely to be dependent upon welfare payments, especially in old age.\n\nA 2009 report for the Australian Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs argued that in addition to fairness and equity there are also strong economic imperatives for addressing the gender wage gap. The researchers estimated that a decrease in the gender wage gap from 17% to 16% would increase GDP per capita by approximately $260, mostly from an increase in the hours females would work. Ignoring opposing factors as hours females work increase, eliminating the whole gender wage gap from 17% could be worth around $93 billion or 8.5% of GDP. The researchers estimated the causes of the wage gap as follows, lack of work experience was 7%, lack of formal training was 5%, occupational segregation was 25%, working at smaller firms was 3%, and being female represented the remaining 60%.\n\nAn October 2012 study by the American Association of University Women found that over the course of 47 years, an American woman with a college degree will make about $1.2 million less than a man with the same education. Therefore, closing the pay gap by raising women's wages would have a stimulus effect that would grow the United States economy by at least 3% to 4%.\n\nThe European Commission argues that the gender pay gap has far-reaching effects, especially in regard to pensions. Since women's earnings over a lifetime are on average 17.5% (as of 2008) lower than men's, these lower earnings result in lower pensions. As a result, elderly women are more likely to face poverty: 22% of women aged 65 and over are at risk of poverty compared to 16% of men.\n\nAnalysis conducted by the World Bank and available in the 2019 World Development Report on \"The Changing Nature of Work\" connects earnings with skill accumulation, suggesting that women also accumulate less human capital (skills and knowledge) at work and through their careers. The report shows that the payoffs to work experience is lower for women across the world as compared to men. For example, in Venezuela, for each additional year of work, men's wages increase on average by 2.2 percent, compared to only 1.5 percent for women. In Denmark, by contrast, the payoffs to an additional year of work experience are the same for both men and women, at 5 percent on average. To address these differences, the report argues that governments could seek to remove limitations on the type or nature of work available to women and eliminate rules that limit women's property rights. Parental leave, nursing breaks, and the possibility for flexible or part-time schedules are also identified as potential factors limiting women's learning in the workplace.\n\nIn certain neoclassical models, discrimination by employers can be inefficient; excluding or limiting employment of a specific group will raise the wages of groups not facing discrimination. Other firms could then gain a competitive advantage by hiring more workers from the group facing discrimination. As a result, in the long run discrimination would not occur. However, this view depends on strong assumptions about the labor market and the production functions of the firms attempting to discriminate. Firms which discriminate on the basis of real or perceived customer or employee preferences would also not necessarily see discrimination disappear in the long run even under stylized models.\n\nIn monopsony theory, wage discrimination can be explained by variations in labor mobility constraints between workers. Ransom and Oaxaca (2005) show that women appear to be less pay sensitive than men, and therefore employers take advantage of this and discriminate in their pay for women workers.\n\nAccording to the 2008 edition of the \"Employment Outlook\" report by the OECD, almost all OECD countries have established laws to combat discrimination on grounds of gender. Examples of this are the Equal Pay Act of 1963 and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Legal prohibition of discriminatory behavior, however, can only be effective if it is enforced. The OECD points out that:\n\nherein lies a major problem: in all OECD countries, enforcement essentially relies on the victims' willingness to assert their claims. But many people are not even aware of their legal rights regarding discrimination in the workplace. And even if they are, proving a discrimination claim is intrinsically difficult for the claimant and legal action in courts is a costly process, whose benefits down the road are often small and uncertain. All this discourages victims from lodging complaints.\n\nMoreover, although many OECD countries have put in place specialized anti-discrimination agencies, only in a few of them are these agencies effectively empowered, in the absence of individual complaints, to investigate companies, take actions against employers suspected of operating discriminatory practices, and sanction them when they find evidence of discrimination.\n\nIn 2003, the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that women in the United States, on average, earned 80% of what men earned in 2000 and workplace discrimination may be one contributing factor. In light of these findings, GAO examined the enforcement of anti-discrimination laws in the private and public sectors. In a 2008 report, GAO focused on the enforcement and outreach efforts of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) and the Department of Labor (Labor). GAO found that EEOC does not fully monitor gender pay enforcement efforts and that Labor does not monitor enforcement trends and performance outcomes regarding gender pay or other specific areas of discrimination. GAO came to the conclusion that \"federal agencies should better monitor their performance in enforcing anti-discrimination laws.\"\n\nIn 2016, the EEOC proposed a rule to submit more information on employee wages by gender to better monitor and combat gender discrimination. In 2018, Iceland enacted legislation to reduce the country's pay gap.\n\nCivil society groups organize awareness campaigns that include activities such as Equal Pay Day or the equal pay for equal work movement to increase the public attention received by the gender pay gap. For the same reason, various groups publish regular reports on the current state of gender pay differences. An example is the Global Gender Gap Report.\n\nThe growth of the \"gig\" economy generates worker flexibility that, some have speculated, will favor women. However, the analysis of earnings among more than one million Uber drivers in the United States surprisingly showed that the gender pay gap between drivers is about 7% in favor of men. Uber's algorithm does not distinguish the gender of its workers, but men get more income because they choose better when and in which areas to work, and cancel and accept trips in a more lucrative way. Finally, men drive 2.2% faster than women, which also allows them to increase their income per unit of time. The study concludes the \"gig\" economy can perpetuate the gender pay gap even in the absence of discrimination.\n\nThis is a list of unadjusted pay gaps (median earnings of full-time employees) according to the OECD (2008).\n\nMoreover, the World Economic Forum provides data from 2015 that evaluates the gender pay gap in 145 countries. Their evaluations take into account economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment scores.\n\nIn Australia, the gender pay gap is calculated on the average weekly ordinary time earnings for full-time employees published by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The gender pay gap excludes part-time, casual earnings and overtime payments.\n\nAustralia has a persistent gender pay gap. Between 1990 and 2009, the gender pay gap remained within a narrow range of between 15 and 17%. In August 2010, the Australian gender pay gap was 16.9%.\n\nIan Watson of Macquarie University examined the gender pay gap among full-time managers in Australia over the period 2001–2008, and found that between 65 and 90% of this earnings differential could not be explained by a large range of demographic and labor market variables. In fact, a \"major part of the earnings gap is simply due to women managers being female\". Watson also notes that despite the \"characteristics of male and female managers being remarkably similar, their earnings are very different, suggesting that discrimination plays an important role in this outcome\". A 2009 report to the Department of Families, Housing, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs also found that \"simply being a woman is the major contributing factor to the gap in Australia, accounting for 60 per cent of the difference between women's and men's earnings, a finding which reflects other Australian research in this area\". The second most important factor in explaining the pay gap was industrial segregation. A report by the World Bank also found that women in Australia who worked part-time jobs and were married came from households which had a gendered distribution of labor, possessed high job satisfaction, and hence were not motivated to increase their working hours.\n\nThe Global Gender Gap Report ranks Brazil at 90 out of 144 countries on pay equality for like jobs. The World Economic Forum, that created this report, takes into consideration economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment. It gives a score of 0.684 (1.00 being equality) to Brazil, which is a little below 2017's global index. Within the Latin American and the Caribbean, Brazil is only ahead of Paraguay and Guatemala in the ranking index. In 2017, Brazil was one of the 6 countries that fully closed their gaps on both the Health and Survival and Educational Attainment subindexes. However, Brazil saw a setback in the progress towards gender parity this year, with its overall gender gap standing at its widest point since 2011. This is due to an enlargement of Brazil's Political Empowerment gender gap, which measures the ratio of females with seats in the parliament and at ministerial level, that is too large to be counterbalanced by a range of modest improvements across the country's Economic Participation and Opportunity subindex.\n\nAccording to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics, or IBGE, women in Brazil study more, work more and earn less than men. On average, combining paid work, household chores and caring for people, women work three hours a week more than men. In fact, the average women work 54.4 hours a week, and the average man only 51.4. Despite that, even with a higher educational level, women earn, on average, less than men do. Although the difference between men's and women's earnings has declined in recent years, in 2016 women still received the equivalent of 76.5% of men's earnings. One of the factors that may explain this difference is that only 37.8% of management positions in 2016 were held by women. Finally, according to IBGE, occupational segregation and the wage discrimination of women in the labor market also have an important role in the wage difference between men and women.\n\nAccording to data from the Continuous National Household Sample Survey, done by IBGE on the fourth quarter of 2017, 24.3% of the 40.2 million Brazilian workers had completed college, but this proportion was of 14.6% among employed men. As reported by the same survey, women who work earn 24.4% less, on average, than men. It also cited that 6.0% of working men were employers, while the proportion of women employers was only 3.3%. The survey also pointed out that 92.3% of domestic workers, a job culturally known as \"feminine\" and that pays low wages, are women. While high paying occupations like civil construction employed 13% of the employed men and only 0.5% of the employed women. Other reason that might explain the gender wage gap in Brazil are the very strict labor regulations that increase informal hiring. In Brazil, under law, female workers may opt to take 6 months of maternity leave that must be fully paid by the employer. Many researches are concerned with this regulations. They question if these regulations may actually force workers into informal jobs, where they will have no rights at all. In fact, women who work on informal jobs earn only 50% of the average women in formal jobs. Between men the difference is less radical: men working on informal jobs earn 60% of the average men in formal jobs.\n\nA study of wages among Canadian supply chain managers found that men make an average of $14,296 a year more than women. The research suggests that as supply chain managers move up the corporate ladder, they are less likely to be female.\n\nWomen in Canada are more likely to seek employment opportunities which greatly contrast the ones of men. About 20 percent of women between the ages of 25 and 54 will make just under $12 an hour in Canada. The demographic of women who take jobs paying less than $12 an hour is also a proportion that is twice as large as the proportion of men taking on the same type of low-wage work. There still remains the question of why such a trend seems to resonate throughout the developed world. One identified societal factor that has been identified is the influx of women of color and immigrants into the work force. These groups both tend to be subject to lower paying jobs from a statistical perspective.\n\nEach province and territory in Canada has a quasi-constitutional human rights code which prohibits discrimination based on sex. Several also have laws specifically prohibiting public sector and private sector employers from paying men and women differing amounts for substantially similar work. Verbatim, the Alberta Human Rights Act states in regards to equal pay, \"Where employees of both sexes perform the same or substantially similar work for an employer in an establishment the employer shall pay the employees at the same rate of pay.\"\n\nUsing the gaps between men and women in economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment, \"The Global Gender Gap Report 2015\" ranks China's gender gap at 91 out of 145 countries (the lower the ranking, the narrower the gender gap), which is four rankings below 2014's global index. China's 2015 gender gap score was 0.681 (1.00 being equality). As an upper middle income country, as classified by the World Bank, China is the \"third-least improved country in the world\" on the gender gap. The health and survival subindex is the lowest within the countries listed; this subindex takes into account the gender differences of life expectancy and sex ratio at birth (the ratio of male to female children to depict the preferences of sons in accordance with China's One Child Policy). In particular, Jayoung Yoon, a researcher, claims the women's employment rate is decreasing. However, several of the contributing factors might be expected to increase women's participation. Yoon's contributing factors include: the traditional gender roles; the lack of childcare services provided by the state; the obstacle of childrearing; and the highly educated, unmarried women termed \"leftover women\" by the state. The term \"leftover women\" produces anxieties for women to rush marriage, delaying employment. In alignment with the traditional gender roles, the \"Women Return to the Home\" movement by the government encouraged women to leave their jobs to alleviate the men's unemployment rate.\n\nDominican women, who are 52.2% of the labor force, earns an average of 20,479 Dominican pesos, 2.6% more than Dominican men's average income of 19,961 pesos. The Global Gender Gap ranking, found by compiling economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment scores, in 2009 it was 67th out of 134 countries representing 90% of the globe, and its ranking has dropped to 86th out of 145 countries in 2015. More women are in ministerial offices, improving the political empowerment score, but women are not receiving equal pay for similar jobs, preserving the low economic participation and opportunity scores.\n\nAt EU level, the gender pay gap is defined as the relative difference in the average gross hourly earnings of women and men within the economy as a whole. Eurostat found a persisting gender pay gap of 17.5% on average in the 27 EU Member States in 2008. There were considerable differences between the Member States, with the unadjusted pay gap ranging from less than 10% in Italy, Slovenia, Malta, Romania, Belgium, Portugal, and Poland to more than 20% in Slovakia, the Netherlands, Czech Republic, Cyprus, Germany, United Kingdom, and Greece and more than 25% in Estonia and Austria. However, taking into account the hours worked in Finland, men there only earned 0.4% more in net income than women.\n\nA recent survey of international employment law firms showed that gender pay gap reporting is not a common policy internationally. Despite such laws on a national level being few and far between, there are calls for regulation on an EU level. A recent (as of December 2015) resolution of the European Parliament urged the Commission to table legislation closing the pay gap. A proposal that is substantively the same as the UK plan was passed by 344 votes to 156 in the European Parliament.\n\nThe European Commission has stated that the undervaluation of female work is one of the main contributors to the persisting gender pay gap.\n\nWomen earn 22–23% less than men, according to the Federal Statistical Office of Germany. The revised gender pay gap was 6–8% in the years 2006–2013. The Cologne Institute for Economic Research adjusted the wage gap to less than 2%. They reduced the gender pay gap from 25% to 11% by taking in account the work hours, education and the period of employment. The difference in revenue was reduced furthermore if women hadn't paused their job for more than 18 months due to motherhood.\n\nThe most significant factors associated with the remaining gender pay gap are part-time work, education and occupational segregation (less women in leading positions and in fields like STEM).\n\nIn the Netherlands, recent numbers from the CBS (Centraal Bureau voor statistieken; \"English: Central Bureau of Statistics\") claim that the pay gap is getting smaller. Adjusted for occupation level, education level, experience level, and 17 other variables the difference in earnings in businesses has fallen from 9% (2008) to 7% (2014) and in government from 7% (2008) to 5% (2014). Without adjustments the gap is for businesses 20% (2014) and government 10% (2014). Young women earn more than men up until the age of 30, this is mostly due to a higher level of education. Women in the Netherlands, up until the age of 30, have a higher educational level on average than men; after this age men have on average a higher educational degree. The chance can also be caused by women getting pregnant and start taking part-time jobs so they can care for the children.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the aggregate gender pay gap has been on the decline, and even reversed for certain age groups. According to data from the Office for National Statistics, women aged 22–29 earned ₤1,111 more per year than men of the same age (between 2006 and 2013). As of 2012, the gap officially dropped below 10% for full-time workers. The aggregate gender pay gap can also be viewed as a generational sliding scale. Females between the ages of 55–65 have the largest disparity (18%), while females between the ages of 25–35 have the smallest disparity (6%).\n\nIn the UK, the most significant factors associated with the gender pay gap are part-time work, education, the size of the firm a person is employed in, and occupational segregation (women are under-represented in managerial and high-paying professional occupations). When comparing full-time roles, men in the UK tend to work longer hours than women in full-time employment. Depending on the age bracket and percentile of hours worked men in full-time employment work between 1.35% and 17.94% more hours than women in full-time employment. When comparing part-time roles women out-earn men by 6.5% in 2015 (up from 5.5% in 2014).\n\nIn October 2014, the Equality Act 2010 was augmented with regulations which require Employment Tribunals to order an employer (except an existing micro-business or a new business) to carry out an equal pay audit where the employer is found to have breached equal pay law.\n\nA 2015 study compiled by the Press Association based on data from the Office for National Statistics revealed that women in their 20s were out-earning men in their 20s by an average of £1,111, showing a reversal of trends. However, the same study showed that men in their 30s out-earned women in their 30s by an average of £8,775. The study did not attempt to explain the causes of the gender gap. The then prime minister David Cameron announced plans to force large firms to disclose data on the gender pay gap among staff.\n\nIn April 2018, employers with over 250 employees were legally required to publish data relating to pay inequalities. Data published had to include the pay and bonus figures between men and women, and included data from April 2017. A BBC analysis of the figures after the deadline expired showed that more than three-quarters of UK companies pay men more on average than women. Employment barrister Harini Iyengar advocates more flexible working and greater paternity leave to achieve economic and cultural change.\n\nFor the year 2013, the gender pay gap in India was estimated to be 24.81%. Further, while analyzing the level of female participation in the economy, a report slots India as one of the bottom 10 countries on its list. Thus, in addition to unequal pay, there is also unequal representation, because while women constitute almost half the Indian population (about 48% of the total), their representation in the work force amounts to only about one-fourth of the total.\n\nJayoung Yoon analyzes Japan's culture of the traditional male breadwinner model, where the husband works outside of the house while the wife is the caretaker. Despite these traditional gender roles for women, Japan's government aims to enhance the economy by improving the labor policies for mothers with Abenomix (2013), an economy revitalization strategy. Yoon believes Abenomix represents a desire to remedy the effects of an aging population rather than a desire to promote gender equality. Evidence for the conclusion is the finding that women are entering the workforce in contingent positions for a secondary income and a company need of part-time workers based on mechanizing, outsourcing and subcontracting. Therefore, Yoon states that women's participation rates do not seem to be influenced by government policies but by companies' necessities. \"The Global Gender Gap Report 2015\" established that Japan's economic participation and opportunity ranking (106th), 145th being the broadest gender gap, dropped from 2014 \"due to lower wage equality for similar work and fewer female legislators, senior officials and managers\".\n\nFrom a total of 145 states, the World Economic Forum calculates Jordan's gender gap ranking for 2015 as 140th through economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment evaluations. Jordan is the \"world's second-least improved country\" for the overall gender gap. The ranking dropped from 93rd in 2006. In contradiction to Jordan's provisions within its constitution and being signatory to multiple conventions for improving the gender pay gap, there is no legislation aimed at gender equality in the workforce. According to \"The Global Gender Gap Report 2015\", Jordan had a score of 0.61; 1.00 being equality, on pay equality for like jobs.\n\nAs stated by Jayoung Yoon, South Korea's female employment rate has increased since the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis as a result of women 25 to 34 years old leaving the workforce later to become pregnant and women 45 to 49 years old returning to the workforce. Mothers are more likely to continue working after child rearing on account of the availability of affordable childcare services provided for mothers previously in the workforce or the difficulty to be rehired after taking time off to raise their children. The World Economic Forum found that, in 2015, South Korea had a score of 0.55, 1.00 being equality, for pay equality for like jobs. From a total of 145 countries, South Korea had a gender gap ranking of 115th (the lower the ranking, the narrower the gender gap). On the other hand, political empowerment dropped to half of the percentage of women in the government in 2014.\n\nNorth Korea, on the other hand, is one of few countries where women earn more than men. The disparity is due to women's greater participation in the shadow economy of North Korea.\n\nAlthough recent studies have shown that the gender wage gap in New Zealand has diminished in the last two decades, the gap continues to affect many women today. According to StatsNZ, the wage gap was measured to be 9.4 percent in September 2017. Back in 1998, it was measured to be approximately 16.3 percent. There are several different factors that affect New Zealand's wage gap. However, researchers claim that 80 percent of these factors cannot be elucidated, which often causes difficulty in understanding the gap.\n\nIn order to calculate the gap, New Zealand makes use of several different methods. The official gap is calculated by Statistics New Zealand. They use the difference between men and women's hourly revenue. On the other hand, the State Services Commission examine the average income of men and women for their calculation. Over the years, the OECD has and continues to track New Zealand's, along with 34 other countries', gender wage gap. In fact, the overall goal of the OECD is to fix the wage gap so that gender no longer plays a significant role in an individual's income. Although it has been a gradual change, New Zealand is one of the countries that has seen notable progress and researchers have predicted that it will continue to do so.\n\nA wage gap exists in Russia (after 1991, but also before) and statistical analysis shows that most of it cannot be explained by lower qualifications of women compared to men. On the other hand, occupational segregation by gender and labor market discrimination seem to account for a large share of it.\n\nThe October Revolution (1917) and the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, have shaped the developments in the gender wage gap. These two main turning points in the Russian history frame the analysis of Russia's gender pay gap found in the economic literature. Consequently, the pay gap study can be examined for two periods: the wage gap in Soviet Russia (1917–1991) and the wage gap in the transition and post-transition (after 1991).\n\nAccording to Jayoung Yoon, Singapore's aging population and low fertility rates are resulting in more women joining the labor force in response to the government's desire to improve the economy. The government provides tax relief to mothers in the workforce to encourage them to continue working. Yoon states that \"as female employment increases, the gender gap in employment rates…narrows down\" in Singapore. \"The Global Gender Gap Report 2015\" ranks Singapore's gender gap at 54th out of 145 states globally based on the economic participation and opportunity, the educational attainment, the health and survival, and the political empowerment subindexes (a lower rank means a smaller gender gap). The gender gap narrowed from 2014's ranking of 59. In the Asia and Pacific region, Singapore has evolved the most in the economic participation and opportunity subindex, yet it is lower than the region's means in educational attainment and political empowerment.\n\nIn the US the average woman's unadjusted annual salary has been cited as 78% to 82% of that of the average man's. However, after adjusting for choices made by male and female workers in college major, occupation, working hours, and parental leave, multiple studies find that pay rates between males and females varied by 5–6.6% or, females earning 94 cents to every dollar earned by their male counterparts. The remaining 6% of the gap has been speculated to originate from gender discrimination and a difference in ability and/or willingness to negotiate salaries.\n\nThe extent to which discrimination plays a role in explaining gender wage disparities is somewhat difficult to quantify, due to a number of potentially confounding variables. A 2010 research review by the majority staff of the United States Congress Joint Economic Committee reported that studies have consistently found unexplained pay differences even after controlling for measurable factors that are assumed to influence earnings – suggestive of unknown/unmeasurable contributing factors of which gender discrimination may be one. Other studies have found direct evidence of discrimination – for example, more jobs went to women when the applicant's sex was unknown during the hiring process.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45709484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45709484", "title": "Green consumption", "text": "Green consumption\n\nGreen consumption, is closely related to the notions of sustainable development or sustainable consumer behaviour. It is a form of consumption that is compatible with the safeguard of the environment for the present and for the next generations. It is a concept which ascribes to consumers responsibility or co-responsibility for addressing environmental problems through adoption of environmentally friendly behaviors, such as the use of organic products, clean and renewable energy and the research of goods produced by companies with zero, or almost, impact.\nIn Western societies, during the ‘60s and the early ‘70s, the necessity to protect the environment and the people health from the effects caused by industrial pollutants and by the continuous growth of economic and population has developed this new idea of consumption. In the 1980s first American \"green\" brands began to appear and exploded on the American market. During the 1990s green products had a slow mild growth, remaining a niche phenomenon. American interest in green products . started to increase again in the early 2000s with greater speed and, despite the latest recession, it has been continuing to grow.\n\nThe origin of the necessity to behave in an environmental-friendly way goes back to the 1960s and '70s. In particular after the oil crisis of 1973, Western countries start to think about the use of renewable energy, as an alternative to fuel fossil. Nowadays green consumption is considered a basic point of environmental reform and it is also guarantee by supra-national organizations like European Union. Some sociologist argue that after the increasing globalization, people feel more interconnected with other people and the environment, so there has been increasing awareness of global environmental problems, especially in western countries. \nThe main forums in which the issue has been discussed, and provided guidelines to orient national governments are: Stockholm 1972 UN Conference on the Human Environment; IUCN 1980 World Conservation Strategy; World Commission on Environment and Development in 1983 and 1987 Brundtland Report; Italy 1993 National Plan for Sustainable Development; Aalborg 1994, 1st European Conference on Sustainable Cities; Lisbon 1996, 2nd European Conference on Sustainable Cities; Hannover 2000, 3rd Conference on Sustainable Cities; European Union in 2001, VI Environmental Action Plan 2002/2010; Aalborg +10 and the Aalborg Commitments in 2004.\n\nGreen consumer behavior is a form of pro-environmental behavior, which can be defined as a form of consumption that harms the environment as little as possible, or even benefits the environment. Past research has provided empirical support to the claim that green or pro-environmental consumer behavior is a multidimensional construct which is composed of:\n\n\nThe contextual factors such as monetary incentives, costs, regulations, public policy norms, as well as subjectively perceived factors such as perceived resources available have a strong impact on consumer pro-environmental behavior and thus green consumption through the mediating effect of attitudes. In sum, it is through attitude, that subjectively perceived contextual factors such as, for example, the extent to which consumers perceive having more or less time, money and power available, modulate pro-environmental behavior, in general, and green consumption, in particular.\n\nWe can define a green consumer behavior the one that has these characteristics:\n\nWe can find a green consumer behavior when an individual acts ethically, motivated not only by his/her personal needs, but also by the respect and preservation of the welfare of entire society, because a green consumer takes into account the environmental consequences (costs and benefits) of his/her private consumption. Green consumers are expected to be more conscientious in their use of assets, for example by using their goods without wasting resources. \nHowever the Eurobarometer’s survey of consumers’ behavior (2013) showed that consumers seem not to be fully conscious of the importance to adopt a set of new behaviors, that are more environmental-friendly. In this report it is possible to find that even though a very high proportion of citizens buy green products (80%), more than a half are classified as occasional maintenance (54%), and only a quarter are regular buyer of green products (26%).\nThis fact implies that most of people do not behave like green consumer continuously, probably because of a lot of social and economic constraints, such as the fact that green products are much more expensive than non-green ones, and also because it is not always so easy to find organic and biological goods for each category, and because the green-retailers are not so widespread. Some researchers find that personal values are influential determinants of consumption and that pro-environmental behavior might serve as a signal of personality dimension. Considering the time-horizon in the acquisition of green behavior, we can distinguish two types of consumers:\n\nAnother research find the effect of gender and social identity on green consumption: \"female declared higher levels of sustainable consumption compared with male participants; however when social identity is salient, male increased their sustainable consumption intentions to the same level as female. In this research are identified two kind of people, that have more:\n\n\nThe fact is that sustainable consumption is, for men, a way to reinforce their social image, showing to others that they care about environment, instead for women is intrinsically important. The evidence is that green consumers are mainly female, aged between 30 and 44 years old, well educated, in a household with a high annual income.\n\nGreen energy includes natural energetic processes that can be harnessed with little pollution.\n\nIn the food area, there is a recent growing of demand for less environmentally-damaging food production, that leads people to buy more organic and local food. \nOrganic food is produced through agriculture which does not use artificial chemical fertilizers and pesticides, and animals reared in more natural conditions, without the routine use of drugs, antibiotics and wormers common in intensive livestock farming. \nConsumers can also choose to buy local food in order to reduce the social and environmental impacts of \"food miles\" – the distance food travels between being produced and being consumed. This behavior can create a new sense of connection with the land, through a concern for the authenticity and provenience of the food eaten, operating a social as much as a technological innovation. In addition, taste, health and safety concerns can be other reasons behind this consumption practices.\n\n\"\"Ethical clothing refers to clothing that takes into consideration the impact of production and trade on the environment and on the people behind the clothes we wear. Eco clothing refers to all clothing that has been manufactured using environmentally friendly processes. It includes organic textiles and sustainable materials such as hemp and non-textiles such as bamboo or recycled plastic bottles. It also includes recycled products (clothes made from recycled clothing including vintage, textile and other materials and can also be termed re-used) and is not necessarily made from organic fibers. Organic clothing means clothes that have been made with a minimum use of chemicals and with minimum damage to the environment and fair-trade is intended to achieve better prices, decent working conditions, local sustainability and fair terms for farmers and workers in the developing world\".\"\nThe three main reasons that would motivate the purchase of organic cloths are:\n\nAnother important question is related to the textile and clothing industry that generates much pollution and consumes a large amount of resources. Improper uses and disposal of clothing products make the problems much more severe. \nConsumers are concerned about this (environmental) issues, and are best motivated to change their behaviors in a philanthropic or environmental-friendly actions that adapt with their financial and sustainability interests.\nAn intuitive and sustainable strategy is the reusing cloths. Textile recycling is a method of reprocessing used clothing, fibrous material and clothing scraps from the manufacturing process. This can reduce manufacturing pollution and resource consumption. The world is facing one of the worst economic crises ever, which affects all industries, including fashion and luxury. In this way moderate consumption is becoming an implicit rules. \nConsumers pay attention to the origin and the materials of the clothes they buy and the fact that they are not harmful to the environment. Also, the issue of trust arises and a label certifying the organic origin is strongly required. \nBut consumers often have a lack of information of green fashion or maybe they are unaware of the existence of green fashion alternatives to traditional adult fashion. \nThus, there is a need to create awareness and inform better the consumers on the nature of organic fashion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41928010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41928010", "title": "Haitian Swiss", "text": "Haitian Swiss\n\nA Haitian Swiss (, ) is a Swiss citizen of full or partial Haitian ancestry.\n\n"}
{"id": "39925201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39925201", "title": "Hamburg Aviation", "text": "Hamburg Aviation\n\nHamburg Aviation is the brand name of the \"Luftfahrtcluster Metropolregion Hamburg e.V.\" (Aviation Cluster Hamburg Metropolitan Region), an association of companies, research institutions, educational institutions and the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, with the goal of promoting the aviation industry in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region. With more than 40,000 employees in 2012, this is one of the world's largest sites in the civil aviation industry.\n\nCompanies based in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region include the aircraft manufacturer Airbus and Lufthansa Technik, a market leader in the field of maintenance, repair, and overhaul of civil aircraft. Hamburg Airport, which first opened in 1912, is one of the world’s oldest operational airports to still be based at its original location. Added to this are more than 300 specialist suppliers, including branches of Diehl Aerospace. Many of the numerous small and medium-sized enterprises are represented by the business associations Hanse Aerospace e.V. and HECAS.\nFour of Hamburg’s universities offer a course of study with significant aviation-related components: \nAlso based in Hamburg are the German Aerospace Center’s Institute of Aerospace Medicine and Institute of Air Transportation Systems.\n\nA particular focus for many aviation companies in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region is the interior fittings of aircraft along with the design of aircraft cabins. Airbus develops and builds the cabins for the A380 at Finkenwerder Airport, and Lufthansa Technik AG designs in-flight entertainment systems along with luxury VIP fittings for private aircraft. There are also numerous small and medium-sized enterprises specialised in cabin design, cabin fittings, cabin technology and In-Flight Entertainment and Communications (IFE&C).\nThe aviation region’s focus on this field is clearly seen in the Aircraft Interiors Expo, an annual specialist trade fair held in Hamburg since 2002. Launched in 2007, the Crystal Cabin Award for outstanding product innovations in the field of aircraft interior fittings is presented as part of this trade fair. The prize is funded by the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg.\n\nIn the field of economics, an accumulation of companies spread throughout the value creation chain, interwoven with research and training facilities, such as exists in the aviation industry in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region, is termed a Business cluster. A cluster is defined by a triple helix structure: the interplay between commerce, research and education, and the public sector.\nIn 2001, companies, universities and government bodies joined forces to establish the “Hamburg Aviation Initiative” in order to promote the development of the aviation industry cluster in Hamburg. This developed into the “Luftfahrtcluster Metropolregion Hamburg e.V.” association, with 15 founding members, formally established in 2011. Hamburg Aviation is the brand name of this association. Its goal is the joint coordination of initiatives to support the aviation industry in the region. Examples of its work include the initiation of cooperative research projects and the management of EU research projects along with regular industry gatherings such as the Hamburg Aviation Forum and the organisation of events designed to secure the next generation of aviation specialists.\n\nIn 2008, the then Hamburg Aviation Initiative was recognised as a Leading-Edge Cluster in the first Leading-Edge Cluster Competition organised by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). This resulted in a total of 40 million euros of public funding. This partial funding, combined with the support of companies in the cluster, financed numerous research and development projects. The total investment in research and development as a result of winning the competition was over 80 million euros.\n\nIn 2009, as a network project of the universities, aviation enterprises, industry associations, research institutions and the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, the Center of Applied Aeronautical Research (Zentrum für Angewandte Luftfahrtforschung, or ZAL) was established – an initiative of Hamburg Aviation. The cooperative campus of the Hamburg Centre of Aviation Training (HCAT), is one project focussed on the training of qualified specialist personnel, securing the next generation of aviation specialists.\n\nSecuring the next generation of qualified personnel is a significant focus of the work of Hamburg Aviation. Numerous projects, jointly supported by the industry, the city and the universities, serve this purpose. Examples include the Faszination Technik Klub, organising lectures and events related to aviation for children and teenagers, and the DLR School Lab at the Hamburg University of Technology, where school pupils can carry out technical and scientific experiments.\n\nAnother area in which the association is active is the promotion of international cooperation between aviation locations. In May 2009, Hamburg Aviation launched the European Aerospace Cluster Partnership (EACP). The aim of the organisation is to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and to initiate cooperative projects across national boundaries. One such project is CARE: Clean Aerospace Regions, funded by the European Commission. The project provides a framework for 10 partners, 8 of them EACP members, to collaborate in promoting research into ecologically efficient technologies and processes for the air transportation system.\n\nThe original founding members of what is today Hamburg Aviation are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22562060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22562060", "title": "Herenagh", "text": "Herenagh\n\nA Herenagh was the chief elect of a sept (family group) in medieval times in Ireland, and was a lay official of church lands.\nThe herenagh was elected by the sept and then confirmed by the bishop. If the sept did not agree with the\nelection then the right of appointment then reverted to the bishop, dean and chapter, to be confirmed by the bishop, who still received fees. If the sept ceased to exist, the bishop did not assume power over the land, but had to elect an herenagh from another sept.\n"}
{"id": "6771050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6771050", "title": "Horma", "text": "Horma\n\nThe horma was a tribute paid by subservient tribes to their protectors in traditional Sahrawi-Moorish society in today's Mauritania and Western Sahara in North Africa. The powerful Hassane warrior tribes would extract it from low-caste Znaga tribes, where each member was forced to personally pay an overlord in the dominant tribe. The forms and rates of horma varied throughout the region and through history, and was normally dependent on the relations of strength between the tribes involved. It could be paid in cattle, goods or services.\n\n"}
{"id": "4778254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4778254", "title": "Inor language", "text": "Inor language\n\nInor (pronounced ), sometimes called Ennemor, is an Afroasiatic language spoken in central Ethiopia. One of the Gurage languages, it is mainly spoken within the Gurage Zone in the Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples' Region, as well as by speakers of the language who have settled in Ethiopian cities, especially Addis Ababa. In addition to the morphological complexity that is common to all Semitic languages, Inor exhibits the very complex morphophonology characteristic of West Gurage languages.\n\nEndegegn, Enner, Gyeto, and the extinct dialect Mesmes are all sometimes considered dialects of Inor.\n\nInor possesses nasal vowels, which are unusual for a Gurage language. Many of these may be the result of historical rhinoglottophilia.\n\n may be regarded as largely epenthetic and only marginally phonemic.\n\n"}
{"id": "30276880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30276880", "title": "Iron Gates Region Museum", "text": "Iron Gates Region Museum\n\nThe Iron Gates Region Museum () is a museum in Drobeta-Turnu Severin, Romania.\n\nIn 1912, Professor Alexandru Bărcăcilă established the \"History Museum of Trajan High School\". It was moved in 1926 to a new home near the Roman camp that formerly hosted a museum. It was then renamed the \"Museum of History and Ethnography in Turnu Severin\". After 1945, the museum grew in importance and developed its research area, under the name \"Museum of the Iron Gates Region\". On 15 May 1972, the museum opened with its present displays having two departments: history and natural sciences, with an aquarium presenting Danubian fish species. Later on ethnography and art departments were added.\n\nThe exhibits include natural sciences (fauna and flora, an aquarium for the Danubian fauna and exotic fish), history, documents, archaeology (including prehistoric finds from Schela Cladovei, Roman finds from Drobeta and a lapidarium), numismatics, ethnography (costumes, pottery, textiles from Mehedinți and the Iron Gate areas).\n\nThe history - archaeology department comprises nine halls: Prehistory - the vestiges of the material and spiritual life of the Schela Cladovei culture, the Daco-Roman Wars, ancient Roman monuments (the bridge at Drobeta from the years 103 - 105), Mediaeval History, the Modern Age, Romanian Feudal Art and the Contemporary Age.\n\nThe natural sciences exhibition, inaugurated on 15 May 1972, presents the physical and geographical conditions of the Iron Gates Gorge, (Hall 1), the flora and fauna of the Iron Gates Gorge (Hall 2), the Danubian ichthyofauna of the Iron Gates storage basin (aquarium), and the water fauna in the Iron Gates region. The exhibition closes with aspects relating to cosmogony, paleontological evidence (testimonies regarding the origin and evolution of man).\n\nThe ethnography and folk art department holds a precious rich heritage, bearing documentary value. The exhibition presents first of all aspects on the rural civilization in the Iron Gates region. The museum owns goods listed in the National Cultural Heritage Treasures list.\n\nModern Romanian fine arts are also represented, with works by Luchian, Petrașcu, Pallady, Tonitza, Dimitrescu, Șirato, Stoenescu and Ressu.\n\n"}
{"id": "512888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=512888", "title": "Kalenjin people", "text": "Kalenjin people\n\nThe Kalenjin are an ethnolinguistic group indigenous to Kenya, mainly in what was formerly the Rift Valley Province. They are estimated to number a little over 4.9 million individuals as per the Kenyan 2009 census and are divided into the Kipsigis, Nandi, Keiyo, Marakwet, Sabaot, Pokots, Tugen, Terik and Ogiek. They speak the Kalenjin language, which belongs to the Nilotic group within the wider Nilo-Saharan family.\n\nLinguistic evidence points to the eastern Middle Nile Basin south of the Abbai River, as the nursery of the Nilotic languages. That is to say south-east of present-day Khartoum.\n\nIt is thought that beginning in the second millennium B.C., particular Nilotic speaking communities began to move southward into present day South Sudan where most settled and that the societies today referred to as the Southern Nilotes pushed further on, reaching what is present day north-eastern Uganda by 1000 B.C.\n\nEhret proposes that between 1000 and 700 BC, the Southern Nilotic speaking communities, who kept domestic stock and possibly cultivated sorghum and finger millet, \nlived next to an Eastern Cushitic speaking community with whom they had significant cultural interaction. The general location of this point of cultural exchange being somewhere near the common border between Sudan, Uganda, Kenya and Ethiopia. \n\nHe suggests that the cultural exchange perceived in borrowed loan words, adoption of the practice of circumcision and the cyclical system of age-set organisation dates to this period.\n\nThe arrival of the Southern Nilotes on the East African archaeological scene is correlated with the appearance of the prehistoric lithic industry and pottery tradition referred to as the Elmenteitan culture. The bearers of the Elmenteitan culture developed a distinct pattern of land use, hunting and pastoralism on the western plains of Kenya during the East African Pastoral Neolithic. It's earliest recorded appearance dates to the ninth century BC. \n\nAround the fifth and sixth centuries BC, the Elmenteitain culture split into two major divisions, linguistically the proto-Kalenjin and the proto-Datooga. The former took shape among those residing to the north of the Mau range while the latter took shape among sections that moved into the Mara and Loita plains south of the western highlands.\nCertain distinct traits of the Southern Nilotes, notably in pottery styles, lithic industry and burial practices, are evident in the archaeological record.\n\nThe material culture referred to as Sirikwa is seen as a development from the local pastoral neolithic (i.e. Elmenteitan culture), as well as a locally limited transition from the Neolithic to the Iron Age. \n\nRadiocarbon dating of archaeological excavations done in Rongai (Deloraine) have ranged in date from around 985 to 1300 A.D and have been associated with the early development phase of the Sirikwa culture. Lithics from Deloraine Farm site show that people were abandoning previous technological strategies in favor of more expedient tool production as iron was entering common use. The spread of iron technology led to the abandonment of many aspects of Pastoral Neolithic material culture and practices. \n\nFrom the Central Rift, the culture radiated outwards toward the western highlands, the Mt. Elgon region and possibly into Uganda.\n\nBy the thirteenth century the fully developed Sirikwa societies emerge to become the dominant population of the western highlands of Kenya for the next six centuries. \n\nArchaeological evidence indicates a highly sedentary way of life and a cultural commitment to a closed defensive system for both the community and their livestock during the Sirikwa era. Family homesteads featured small individual family stock pens, elaborate gate-works and sentry points and houses facing into the homestead; defensive methods primarily designed to proof against individual thieves or small groups of rustlers hoping to succeed by stealth. A commitment to trade in this period is also highlighted by fact that the ancient caravan routes from the Swahili coast led to the territories of the Kalenjin ancestors.\n\nAt their greatest extent, their territories covered the highlands from the Chepalungu and Mau forests northwards as far as the Cherangany Hills and Mount Elgon. There was also a south-eastern projection, at least in the early period, into the elevated Rift grasslands of Nakuru which was taken over permanently by the Maasai, probably no later than the seventeenth century. Here Kalenjin place names seem to have been superseded in the main by Maasai names notably Mount Suswa (Kalenjin – place of grass) which was in the process of acquiring its Maasai name, Ol-doinyo Nanyokie, the red mountain during the period of European exploration.\n\nThe Ateker-speakers, represented in the present-day by the Turkana, were the last of the indigenous ethnic groups to arrive in modern-day Kenya and their rise had far reaching effects on neighboring peoples, most notably the Maa and Kalenjin speakers. Impelled by demographic and ecological pressures sparked by the Aoyate (the long dry time) drought, they began encroaching on the territory of Sirikwa era Sengwer and Loikop thus setting off a period of widespread chaos and warfare. \n\nAs the Maasai were displaced from the homeland in the north of Kenya, they developed or borrowed an array of social and political changes that allowed them to expand swiftly, transforming them in a few generations from an obscure group to the regions dominant society. \n\nThese cultural changes, particularly the innovation of heavier and deadlier spears amongst the Maasai led to significant changes in methods and scale of raiding bringing about the Maasai era of the late-18th and 19th centuries. The change in methods introduced by the Maasai however consisted of more than simply their possession of heavier, and more deadly spears. There were more fundamental differences of strategy, in fighting and defense and also in organization of settlements and of political life.\n\nIn the Maasai era, guarding cattle on the plateaus depended less on elaborate defenses and more on mobility and cooperation, both of these being combined with grazing and herd-management strategies. The practice of the later Kalenjin – that is, after they had abandoned the Sirikwa pattern and had ceased in effect to be Sirikwa – illustrates this change vividly. On their reduced pastures, notably on the borders of the Uasin Gishu plateau, they would when bodies of raiders approached relay the alarm from ridge to ridge, so that the herds could be combined and rushed to the cover of the forests. There, the approaches to the glades would be defended by concealed archers, and the advantage would be turned against the spears of the plains warriors.\n\nMore than any of the other sections, the Nandi and Kipsigis, in response to Maasai expansion, borrowed from the Maasai some of the traits that would distinguish them from other Kalenjin: large-scale economic dependence on herding, military organization and aggressive cattle raiding, as well as centralized religious-political leadership. The family that established the office of Orkoiyot (warlord/diviner) among both the Nandi and Kipsigis were nineteenth-century Sengwer immigrants. By the mid-1800's, both the Nandi and Kipsigis were expanding at the expense of the Maasai. This process was halted in 1905 by the imposition of British colonial rule.\n\nThe Maasai era saw the formation of the new Kalenjin societies that at their core remained the same; these new societies, like the Sirikwa societies of the middle ages and after and the proto-Sirikwa before them were primarily semi-nomadic pastoralists. They were still raising cattle, sheep and goats and cultivating sorghum and pearl millet on the western highlands of Kenya as they had since at least the last millennium B.C when they arrived.\n\nA territory that was not as a whole recognized as a geographic locality, though the various Kalenjin sub-tribes did have a similar set of classifications of geographic localities within their respective tribal lands.\n\nOf these geographic classifications, the \"Kokwet\" was the most significant political and judicial unit among the Kalenjin. The governing body of each kokwet was its \"kokwet\" council; the word \"kokwet\" was in fact variously used to mean the whole neighbourhood, its council and the place where the council met.\n\nIn the later decades of the 19th century, at the time when the early European explorers started advancing into the interior of Kenya. They first arrived in territory occupied by the Lembus People and faced fierce resistance. In the late 19th century, the Lembus fought with the British to protect their lands and more so their forest (Lembus Forest). The Lembus resistance eventually led to a peace treaty being signed between the British and the Lembus in a ceremony at Kerkwony in Eldama Ravine.\n\nThe Nandi people were also resisting the British almost the same time with Lembus. Led by Koitalel Arap Samoei, the Nandi resisted the British by waging a hard fought war. Thompson in 1883 was warned to avoid the country of the Nandi, who were known for attacks on strangers and caravans that would attempt to scale the great lands of the Mau.\n\nMatson, in his account of the resistance, shows 'how the irresponsible actions of two British traders, Dick and West, quickly upset the precarious modus vivendi between the Nandi and incoming British'. This would cause more than a decade of conflict led on the Nandi side by Koitalel Arap Samoei, the Nandi Orkoiyot at the time.\n\nUntil the mid-20th century, the Kalenjin did not have a common name known to the external world and were usually referred to as the 'Nandi-speaking tribes' by scholars and colonial administration officials.\n\nStarting in the 1940s, individuals from the various 'Nandi-speaking tribes' who had been drafted to fight in World War II (1939–1945) began using the term Kale or Kore (a term that denoted scarification of a warrior who had killed an enemy in battle) to refer to themselves. At about the same time, a popular local radio broadcaster by the name of John Chemallan would introduce his wartime broadcasts show with the phrase Kalenjok meaning \"I tell You\" (when said to many people). This would influence a group of fourteen young 'Nandi-speaking' men attending Alliance School and who were trying to find a name for their peer group. They would call it Kalenjin meaning \"I tell you\" (when said to one person). The word Kalenjin was gaining currency as a term to denote all the 'Nandi-speaking' tribes. This identity would be consolidated with the founding of the Kalenjin Union in Eldoret in 1948 and the publication of a monthly magazine called Kalenjin in the 1950s. \nIn 1955 when Mzee Tameno, a Maasai and member of the Legislative Assembly (LEGCO) for Rift Valley, tendered his resignation, the Kalenjin presented one candidate to replace him; Daniel Toroitich arap Moi.\n\nBy 1960, concerned with the dominance of the Luo and Kikuyu, Arap Moi and Ronald Ngala formed KADU to defend the interests of the countries smaller tribes. They campaigned on a platform of majimboism (devolution) during the 1963 elections but lost to KANU. Shortly after independence in December 1963, Kenyatta convinced Moi to dissolve KADU. This was done in 1964 when KADU dissolved and joined KANU.\n\nChristianity was introduced and rapidly spread through Kalenjin speaking areas during the colonial period. Traditional Kalenjin religion which was undergoing separate change saw a corresponding decline in this time.\n\nThe colonial period saw the introduction of tea cultivation on a large scale in the Kericho and Nandi highlands. These regions have since played a significant role in establishing Kenya as the world’s leading exporter of tea and also in establishing a tea-drinking culture among the Kalenjin. This period also saw the introduction of the mid-day meal as well as the addition of wheat based foods such as bread and less often pancakes and maandazi to the morning meal.\n\nA significant cultural change of the colonial period was the introduction and adoption of the Latin script for transcribing first the Bible, and later Kalenjin lore and history.\n\nAccording to Kenya's 2009 census, Kalenjin speakers number 4,967,328 individuals, making it the third largest ethnic group in Kenya after the Kikuyu and the Luhya.\n\nThere are several tribal groupings within the Kalenjin: They include the Keiyo, Endorois, Kipsigis, Marakwet, Nandi, Pokot, Terik, Tugen and Sebei.\n\nA significant majority of Kalenjin speakers are primarily subsistence farmers, they cultivate grains such as maize and wheat and to a lesser extent sorghum and millet or practice a pastoralist lifestyle; rearing beef, goats and sheep for meat production. Equally large numbers practice a combination of both farming and livestock (often dairy cattle) rearing. The counties of Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia and to a lesser extent Nakuru are often referred to as Kenya's grain-basket counties and are responsible for supplying much of the country's grain requirements. \n\nMeat products from the northern areas of West Pokot and Baringo are particularly appreciated for their flavor and are favored in the Rift for the preparation of nyama choma.\n\nA significant number of Kalenjin have moved to Kenya's cities where large numbers are employed in the Kenyan Government, the Army, Police Force, the banking and finance industry as well as in business.\n\nContemporary Kalenjin culture is a product of its heritage, the suite of cultural adoptions of the British colonial period and modern Kenyan identity from which it borrows and adds to. \nThe Kalenjin speak Kalenjin languages as mother tongues. The language grouping belongs to the Nilo-Saharan family. The majority of Kalenjin speakers are found in Kenya with smaller populations in Tanzania (e.g., Akie) and Uganda (e.g., Kupsabiny). \n\nKiswahili and English, both Kenyan national languages are widely spoken as second and third languages by most Kalenjin speakers and as first and second languages by some Kalenjin.\n\nThe Kalenjin traditionally have two primary names for the individual though in the past additional praise names were sometimes acquired through various acts of courage or community service. A previously common example of the latter was Barngetuny (one who killed a lion). In contemporary times a Christian or Arabic name is also given at birth such that most Kalenjin today have three names with the patronym Arap in some cases being acquired later in life e.g Alfred Kirwa Yego and Daniel Toroitch arap Moi. \n\nAn individual is given a personal name at birth and this is determined by the circumstance of their birth. For most Kalenjin speaking communities i.e Kalenjin in Kenya as well as Murle in Ethiopia, Sebei of Uganda, Datooga, Akie and Aramanik of Tanzania, masculine names are often prefixed with Kip- or Ki- though there are exceptions to the rule e.g Cheruiyot, Chepkwony, Chelanga etc. Feminine names in turn are often prefixed with Chep- or Che- though among the Tugen and Keiyo, the prefix Kip- may in some cases denote both males and females. The personal name would thus be derived through adding the relevant prefix to the description of the circumstance of birth, for example a child born in the evening (lagat) might be called Kiplagat or Chelagat.\n\nThe tradition of giving a family surname to an individual dates to the colonial period and in most cases the surnames in use today were the second names of the family patriarch of two to four generations ago. Traditionally an individual acquired their father's name after their initiation. Females took on their father's name e.g Cheptoo Lagat being the daughter of Lagat and Cheptoo Kiplagat being the daughter of Kiplgat while males took on just the descriptor portion of the father's name such that the Kiprono son of Kiplagat would become Kiprono arap Lagat.\n\nArap is patronym meaning 'son of'. It was traditionally given following the labetab eun (kelab eun) ceremony and all initiates would after the ceremony acquire their fathers name e.g Toroitich son of Kimoi and Kipkirui son of Kiprotich would after the ceremony be Toroitich arap Moi and Kipkirui arap Rotich. In modern times it is confined to progressing age-sets independent of the individual initiation ceremony such that if the current age-set is Nyongi, all individuals of preceding age-sets may use the term Arap.\n\nThe initiation process is a key component of Kalenjin identity. Among males, the circumcision process is seen as signifying one's transition from boyhood to manhood and is taken very seriously. On the whole the process still occurs during a boys pre-teen/early teenage years though significant differences are emerging in practice. Much esotericism is still attended to in the traditional practice of initiation and there was great uproar amongst Kalenjin elders in 2013 when aspects of the tradition were openly inquired into at the International Court. Conversely a number of contemporary Kalenjin have the circumcision process carried out in hospital as a standard surgical procedure and various models of the learning process have emerged to complement the modern practice. For both orthodox and urban traditions however the use of ibinwek is in decline and the date has been moved from the traditional September/October festive season to December to coincide with the Kenyan school calendar.\n\nThe female circumcision process is perceived negatively in the modern world (see: FGM) and various campaigns are being carried out with the intention of eradicating the practice among the Kalenjin. A notable anti-FGM crusader is Hon. Linah Jebii Kilimo.\n\nThe contemporary Kalenjin wedding has fewer ceremonies than it did traditionally and they often, though not always, occur on different days;\n\nDuring the first ceremony, the proposal/show-up (kaayaaet'ap koito), the young man who wants to marry, informs his parents of his intention and they in turn tell their relatives often as part of discussing suitability of the pairing. If they approve, they will go to the girls family for a show-up and to request for the girl's hand in marriage. The parents are usually accompanied by aunts, uncles or even grandparents and the request is often couched as an apology to the prospective brides parents for seeking to take their daughter away from them. If her family agrees to let them have their daughter, a date for a formal engagement is agreed upon. Other than initiating it, the intended groom and prospective bride play no part in this ceremony. \n\nDuring the second ceremony, the formal engagement (koito), the bridegrooms family goes to the brides home to officially meet her family. The grooms family which includes aunts, uncles, grandparents etc are invited into a room for extensive introductions and dowry negotiations. After the negotiations, a ceremony is held where the bridegroom and bride are given advise on family life by older relatives from both families. Usually symbolic gifts and presents are given to the couple during this ceremony. The koito is often quite colorful and sometimes bears resemblance to a wedding ceremony and it is indeed gaining prominence as the key event since the kaayaaet'ap koito is sometimes merged with it and at other times the tunisiet is foregone in favor of it.\n\nThe third ceremony, the wedding (tunisiet), is a big ceremony where as many relations, neighbors, friends and business partners are invited. In modern iterations, this ceremony often follows the pattern of a regular western wedding; it is usually held in church, where rings are exchanged, is officiated by a pastor and followed by a reception. Traditionally, it was officiated over by an elder and the bride and groom would be blessed by four people carrying bouquets of the sinendet (traditionally auspicious plant) who would form a procession and go round the couple four times and finally the bridegroom and bride would bind a sprig of sekutiet (traditionally auspicious plant) onto each others wrists. This was followed by feasting and dancing.\n\nAlmost all modern Kalenjin are members of an organised religion with the vast majority being Christian and a few identifying as Muslim.\n\nThe Kalenjin have a council of elders composed of members of the various Kalenjin sub-tribes and known as the Myoot Council of Elders. This council was formed in the Kenyan post-independence period. \n\nLike all oral societies, the Kalenjin developed a rich collection of folklore. Folk narratives were told to pass on a message and a number featured the Chemosit (Nandi Bear), known in Marakwet as Chebokeri, the dreaded monster that devoured the brains of disobedient children.\n\nThe Legend of Cheptalel is fairly common among the Kipsigis and Nandi and the name was adopted from Kalenjin mythology into modern tradition. The fall of the Long’ole Clan is another popular tale based on the true-story of the Louwalan clan of the Pokot. The story is told to warn against pride. In the story, the Long’ole warriors believing they were the mightiest in the land goaded their distant rivals the Maasai into battle. The Maasai, though at first reluctant eventually attacked wiping out the Long’ole clan.\n\nAs with other East African communities, the colonial period Misri legend has over time become popular among the Kalenjin and aspects of it have influenced the direction of folkloric and academic studies.\n\nA number of writers have documented Kalenjin history and culture, notably B. E. Kipkorir, Paul Kipchumba, and Ciarunji Chesaina.\n\nContemporary Kalenjin music has long been influenced by the Kipsigis leading to Kericho's perception as a cultural innovation center. Musical innovation and regional styles however abound across all Kalenjin speaking areas. Popular musicians include Pastor Joel Kimetto (father of Kalenjin Gospel), Mike Rotich, Emmy Kosgei, Maggy Cheruiyot, Josphat Koech Karanja, Lilian Rotich and Barbra Chepkoech. Msupa S and Kipsang represent an emerging generation of Kalenjin pop musicians. Notable stars who have passed on include Diana Chemutai Musila (Chelele), Junior Kotestes and Weldon Cheruiyot (Kanene).\n\nTraditional Kalenjin knowledge was fairly comprehensive in the study and usage of plants for medicinal purposes and a significant trend among some contemporary Kalenjin scientists is the study of this aspect of traditional knowledge. One of the more notable Kalenjin scientists is Prof Richard Mibey whose work on the Tami dye helped revive the textile industry in Eldoret and western Kenya in general.\n\nUgali, known in Kalenjin as kimnyet, served with cooked vegetables such as kale, and milk form the staples of the Kalenjin diet. Less often ugali, rice or chapati, is served with roast meat, usually beef or goat, and occasionally chicken. The traditional ugali, made of millet and sorghum, and known as psong'iot has seen a resurgence in popularity in tandem with global trends towards healthier eating. The traditional drink mursik, and honey, both considered delicacies for a long time remain quite popular.\n\nCombination dishes/mixtures while not considered traditionally Kalenjin are encountered in more cosmopolitan areas. The most common of these is \"kwankwaniek\", a mixture of beans cooked with dried pounded maize kernels (githeri).\n\nMilk or tea may be drunk by adults and children with any meal or snack. Tea (chaik) averages 40% milk by volume and is usually liberally sweetened. If no milk is available tea may be drunk black with sugar though taking tea without milk is considered genuine hardship. \n\nIn addition to bread, people routinely buy foodstuffs such as sugar, tea leaves, cooking fat, sodas (most often Orange Fanta and Coca-Cola), and other items that they do not produce themselves.\n\nThe Kalenjin have been called by some \"the running tribe.\" Since the mid-1960s, Kenyan men have earned the largest share of major honours in international athletics (track and field) at distances from 800 meters to the marathon; the vast majority of these Kenyan running stars have been Kalenjin. From 1980 on, about 40% of the top honours available to men in international athletics at these distances (Olympic medals, World Championships medals, and World Cross Country Championships honours) have been earned by Kalenjin.\n\nIn 2008, Pamela Jelimo became the first Kenyan woman to win a gold medal at the Olympics; she also became the first Kenyan to win the Golden League jackpot in the same year. Since then, Kenyan women have become a major presence in international athletics at the distances; most of these women are Kalenjin. Amby Burfoot of \"Runner's World\" stated that the odds of Kenya achieving the success they did at the 1988 Olympics were below 1:160 billion. Kenya had an even more successful Olympics in 2008.\n\nA number of theories explaining the unusual athletic prowess among people from the tribe have been proposed. These include many explanations that apply equally well to other Kenyans or people living elsewhere who are not disproportionately successful athletes, such as that they run to school every day, that they live at relatively high altitude, and that the prize money from races is large compared to typical yearly earnings. One theory is that the Kalenjin has relatively thin legs and therefore does not have to lift so much leg weight when running long distances.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "225891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225891", "title": "Kamma (caste)", "text": "Kamma (caste)\n\nKamma is a caste from South India. They sometimes append the caste title \"Naidu\" to call themselves Kamma Naidu. They are classified as a forward caste.\n\nA sizeable number of Kammas have emigrated to the United States.\n\nThe community of Kammas is thought to be that of agricultural families originating from the Kammanadu region of the Guntur and Prakasam districts in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nThe tradition holds that the Kammas, along with Velamas and Reddis, evolved out of the community of Kapus (cultivators) in the post-Kakatiya period. A popular legend collected by Edgar Thurston narrates that Kammas originated from the youngest son of a certain Belthi Reddi, who managed to recover his mother's ear-ornament (called \"kamma\" in Telugu) which had been appropriated by a king's minister. The other sons of Belthi Reddi are similarly said to have given rise to the other prominent caste communities of the Telugu people.\n\nDuring the reign of Krishnadevaraya Kammas belonging to 37 gotras were living in the city of Vijayanagar. Kamma Nayaks formed the bulwark of the Vijayanagara army and were appointed as governors in many areas of Tamil Nadu. Pemmasani Ramalinga Nayudu was the chief military commander under Krishnadevaraya. Their role in protecting the last great Hindu kingdom of India was significant.\n\nThe Kammas were largely reduced by the status of peasants in the post-Kakatiya period. The Vijayanagara kingdom was troubled after the battle of Tallikota in 1565. Pemmasani Nayaks, Ravella Nayaks and Sayapaneni Nayaks helped the Araviti kings in keeping the Muslims at bay. It took another 90 years to consolidate the Muslim power in Andhra country with the capture of Gandikota in 1652. Kamma nayaks migrated in large numbers to the Tamil region. During the Golkonda period, the Sayapaneni Nayaks (1626–1802) ruled Dupadu region as vassals of the Golkonda sultans.\n\nKamma landholdings were consolidated, and their influence consequently increased, by the introduction of the ryotwari system as a replacement for the zamindari system in the 19th century.\n\nIn the 1872 census, the Kammas made up 40 per cent of the agricultural population of the Krishna district (which included the present Guntur district until 1904). Along with Brahmins, they formed the domininant community of the district. By 1921, their population in the district increased to 47 per cent, representing a large in-migration. The literate Kammas learned the Vedas, wore the sacred threads, taught Sanskrit and performed priestly functions for the lower-caste members, which are said to have generated controversies. Despite this attachment to Brahminical orthodoxy, the Kammas related to the Kapus (cultivators) and their Shudra identity. The upward mobility of the community was noted in N. G. Ranga's study in the 1920s. The Kammas were also politically active, associating themselves with the Indian National Congress almost from its inception, and agitated for farmers' interests. They formed the \"Kamma Mahajana Sabha\", a caste association, in 1910, which received encouragement from the political leaders. Ranga also started a Madras Kamma Association in 1919 and founded a journal \"Kamma Patrika\", later renamed to \"Ryot Patrika\". The Kammas constituted 6 per cent of the population in the Telugu-speaking of the Madras Presidency in 1921, a figure slightly higher than Brahmins, but lagging far behind 'Kapur or Reddi'.\n\nConstruction of dams and barrages and establishment of an irrigation system in Godavari and Krishna River deltas by Arthur Cotton was a great boon to the Kamma farmers. Availability of water and the natural propensity for hard work made the Kammas wealthy and prosperous. The money was put to good use by establishing numerous schools and libraries and encouraging their children to take up modern education.\n\nThe Kammas of Southern Tamil Nadu have also excelled in the cultivation of black cotton soils and later diversified into various industrial enterprises, particularly in Coimbatore and Kovilpatti.\n\nThe varna system of Brahmanic ritual ranking never took hold in South Indian society outside Kerala. There were essentially three classes: Brahmin, non-Brahmin and Dalit. Kammas naturally fall into the non-Brahmin class Classification of social groups in the Andhra region has changed frequently as the various communities jostle for status. During the British Raj, the Kammas were considered to be \"upper Shudra\", along with the Reddy and Velama castes, under the varna system.\n\nSelig Harrison said in 1956 that \n\nPrior to the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, creating the new state of Telangana, the Kammas and the Reddys were politically and economically dominant in the state.\n\nDuring the 1980s, they played a key role in state and national politics with the inception of the Telugu Desam Party by its then President Nandamuri Taraka Rama Rao also called as NTR.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35020507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35020507", "title": "Kanufi language", "text": "Kanufi language\n\nKanufi (Anib) is a Plateau language of Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "400016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400016", "title": "Lady Mary Wortley Montagu", "text": "Lady Mary Wortley Montagu\n\nLady Mary Wortley Montagu (baptised 26 May 1689 – 21 August 1762) (née Pierrepont) was an English aristocrat, letter writer and poet. Lady Mary is today chiefly remembered for her letters, particularly her letters from travels to the Ottoman Empire, as wife to the British ambassador to Turkey, which have been described by Billie Melman as \"the very first example of a secular work by a woman about the Muslim Orient\". Aside from her writing, Lady Mary is also known for introducing and advocating for smallpox inoculation to Britain after her return from Turkey. Her writings address and challenge the hindering contemporary social attitudes towards women and their intellectual and social growth.\n\nLady Mary Pierrepont was born in May 1689 and was baptised on 26 May 1689 at St. Paul's Church in Covent Garden, London. She was the eldest child of Evelyn Pierrepont, 1st Duke of Kingston-upon-Hull (c.1655-1726) by his first wife Mary Fielding (d.1692). She had three younger siblings, two girls and a boy.\n\nAged seven, she was chosen by members of the Kit-Cat Club as the subject of their toast to the beauty of the season, and had her name engraved on the glass goblet used for this purpose. The children were raised by their paternal grandmother until Mary was nine years old. Lady Mary was then passed to the care of her father upon her grandmother's death. She began her education in her father's home. The family's land-holdings were extensive, including Thoresby Hall and Holme Pierrepont Hall in Nottinghamshire, and a house in West Dean in Wiltshire. To supplement the instruction of a despised governess, Lady Mary used the library in Thoresby Hall to \"steal\" her education, teaching herself Latin, a language reserved for men at the time. By 1705, at the age of fourteen or fifteen, Mary Pierrepont had written two albums filled with poetry, a brief epistolary novel, and a prose-and-verse romance modelled after Aphra Behn's \"Voyage to the Isle of Love\" (1684). She also corresponded with two bishops, Thomas Tenison and Gilbert Burnet.\n\nBy 1710, Lady Mary had two possible suitors to choose from: Edward Wortley Montagu and Clotworthy Skeffington. Lady Mary corresponded with Edward Wortley Montagu via letters from 28 March 1710 to 2 May 1711. After May 1711 there was a break in contact between Lady Mary and Edward Wortley Montagu. Mary's father, now Marquess of Dorchester, rejected Wortley Montagu as a prospect because he refused to entail his estate on a possible heir. Her father pressured her to marry Clotworthy Skeffington, heir to an Irish peerage. In order to avoid marriage to Skeffington, she eloped with Wortley. The marriage license is dated 17 August 1712, the marriage probably took place on 23 August 1712.\n\nThe early years of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's married life were spent in the country. She had a son, Edward Wortley Montagu the younger, on 16 May 1713, in London. A couple of months later, on 1 July 1713 Lady Mary's brother, aged twenty, died of smallpox and left behind two children. On 13 October 1714, her husband accepted post as Junior Commissioner of Treasury. When Lady Mary joined him in London, her wit and beauty soon made her a prominent figure at court. She was among the society of George I and the Prince of Wales, and counted amongst her friends Molly Skerritt, Lady Walpole, John, Lord Hervey, Mary Astell, Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough, Alexander Pope, John Gay, and Abbé Antonio Schinella Conti.\n\nIn December 1715, Lady Mary contracted smallpox. She survived, but while she was ill someone circulated the satirical \"court eclogues\" she had been writing. One of the poems was read as an attack on Caroline, Princess of Wales, in spite of the fact that the \"attack\" was voiced by a character who was herself heavily satirised.\n\nIn 1716, Edward Wortley Montagu was appointed Ambassador at Istanbul. In August 1716, Lady Mary accompanied him to Vienna, and thence to Adrianople and Istanbul. He was recalled in 1717, but they remained at Istanbul until 1718. While away from England, the Wortley Montagu's had a daughter on 19 January 1718, who would grow up to be Mary, Countess of Bute. After an unsuccessful delegation between Austria and Turkey/Ottoman Empire, they set sail for England via the Mediterranean, and reached London on 2 October 1718.\n\nThe story of this voyage and of her observations of Eastern life is told in \"Letters from Turkey\", a series of lively letters full of graphic descriptions; \"Letters\" is often credited as being an inspiration for subsequent female travellers/writers, as well as for much Orientalist art. During her visit she was sincerely charmed by the beauty and hospitality of the Ottoman women she encountered, and she recorded her experiences in a Turkish bath. She also recorded a particularly amusing incident in which a group of Turkish women at a bath in Sofia, horrified by the sight of the stays she was wearing, exclaimed that \"the husbands in England were much worse than in the East, for [they] tied up their wives in little boxes, the shape of their bodies\". Lady Mary wrote about misconceptions previous travellers, specifically male travellers, had recorded about the religion, traditions and the treatment of women in the Ottoman Empire. Her gender and class status provided her with access to female spaces, that were closed off to males. Her personal interactions with Ottoman women enabled her to provide, in her view, a more accurate account of Turkish women, their dress, habits, traditions, limitations and liberties, at times irrefutably more a critique of the Occident than a praise of the Orient.\n\nLady Mary returned to the West with knowledge of the Ottoman practice of inoculation against smallpox, known as variolation.\n\nLady Mary Wortley Montagu defied convention most memorably by introducing smallpox inoculation to Western medicine after witnessing it during her travels and stay in the Ottoman Empire. In the Ottoman Empire, she visited the women in their segregated zenanas, making friends and learning about Turkish customs. There she witnessed the practice of inoculation against smallpox—variolation—which she called engrafting, and wrote home about it a number of her letters, the most famous being her April 1, 1717 \"Letter to a Friend\". Variolation used live smallpox virus in the pus taken from a smallpox blister in a mild case of the disease and introduced it into scratched skin of a previously uninfected person to promote immunity to the disease. Lady Mary's brother had died of smallpox in 1713 and her own famous beauty had been marred by a bout with the disease in 1715.\n\nLady Mary was eager to spare her children, thus, in March 1718 she had her nearly five-year-old son, Edward, inoculated with the help of Embassy surgeon Charles Maitland. On her return to London, she enthusiastically promoted the procedure, but encountered a great deal of resistance from the medical establishment, because it was an Oriental folk treatment process.\n\nIn April 1721, when a smallpox epidemic struck England, she had her daughter inoculated by Maitland, the same physician who had inoculated her son at the Embassy in Turkey, and publicised the event. This was the first such operation done in Britain. She persuaded Caroline of Ansbach to test the treatment. In August 1721, seven prisoners at Newgate Prison awaiting execution were offered the chance to undergo variolation instead of execution: they all survived and were released. Controversy over smallpox inoculation intensified; however, Caroline, Princess of Wales was convinced. The Princess's two daughters were successfully inoculated in April 1722 by French-born surgeon Claudius Amyand. In response to the general fear of inoculation, Lady Mary, under a pseudonym, wrote and published an article describing and advocating in favor of inoculation in September 1722.\n\nIn later years, Edward Jenner, who was 13 years old when Lady Mary died, developed the much safer technique of vaccination using cowpox instead of smallpox. As vaccination gained acceptance, variolation gradually fell out of favour.\n\nAfter returning to England, Lady Mary took less interest in court compared to her earlier years. Instead, she was more focused on the upbringing of her children, reading, writing and editing her travel letters—which she then chose not to publish.\n\nBefore starting for the East, Lady Mary Wortley Montagu had met Alexander Pope, and during her Embassy travels with her husband, they wrote each other a series of letters. While Pope may have been fascinated by her wit and elegance, Lady Mary's replies to his letters reveal that she was not equally smitten. Very few letters passed between them after Lady Mary's return to England, and various reasons have been suggested for the subsequent estrangement. In 1728, Pope attacked Lady Mary in his \"Dunciad\" inaugurating a decade in which most of his publications made some sort of allegation against her.\n\nLady Mary went through a series of trials with her children. In 1726 and 1727, Lady Mary's son ran away from Westminster School several times. He was entrusted to a tutor with strict orders to keep young Edward Montagu abroad. In later years her son managed to return to England without permission and continued to have a strained relationship with both his parents. In August 1736, Lady Mary's daughter married John Stuart, 3rd Earl of Bute, despite her parents' disapproval of the match. In the same year, Mary met and fell in love with Count Francesco Algarotti, who competed with an equally smitten John Hervey for her affections.\n\nLady Mary wrote many letters to Algarotti in English and in French after his departure from England in September 1736. In July 1739 Lady Mary departed England ostensibly for health reasons declaring her intentions to winter in the south of France. In reality, she left to visit and live with Algarotti in Venice. Their relationship ended in 1741 after Lady Mary and Algarotti were both on a diplomatic mission in Turin. Lady Mary stayed abroad and travelled extensively. After travelling to Venice, Florence, Rome, Genoa and Geneva, she finally settled in Avignon in 1742. She left Avignon in 1746 for Brescia, where she fell ill and stayed for nearly a decade, leaving for Lovere in 1754. After August 1756, she resided in Venice and Padua and saw Algarotti again in November. Lady Mary exchanged letters with her daughter, Lady Bute, discussing topics such as philosophy, literature, and the education of girls, as well as conveying details of her geographical and social surroundings.\n\nLady Mary received news of her husband Edward Wortley Montagu's death in 1761 and left Venice for England. En route to London, she handed her Embassy Letters to the Rev. Benjamin Sowden of Rotterdam, for safe keeping and \"to be dispos'd of as he thinks proper\". Lady Mary reached London in January 1762, and died in the year of her return, on 21 August 1762.\n\nAlthough Lady Mary Wortley Montagu is now best known for her Embassy Letters, she wrote poetry and essays as well. A number of Lady Mary's poems and essays were printed in her lifetime, either without or with her permission, in newspapers, in miscellanies, and independently.\n\nMontagu did not intend to publish her poetry, but it did circulate widely, in manuscript, among members of her own social circle. Lady Mary was highly suspicious of any idealising literary language. She wrote most often in heroic couplets, a serious poetic form to employ, and, according to Susan Staves,\"excelled at answer poems.\". Some of her widely anthologised poems include \"Constantinople\" and \"Epistle from Mrs Yonge to her Husband.\" \"Constantinople,\" written January 1718, is a beautiful poem in heroic couplets describing Britain and Turkey through human history, and representing the state of mind \"of knaves, coxcombs, the mob, and party zealous—all characteristic of the London of her time.\". \"Epistle from Mrs Yonge to her Husband,\" written 1724, stages a letter from Mrs Yonge to her libertine husband and exposes the social double standard which led to the shaming and distress of Mrs Yonge after her divorce.\n\nIn 1737 and 1738, Lady Mary published anonymously a political periodical called the \"Nonsense of Common-Sense\", supporting the Robert Walpole government (the title was a reference to a journal of the liberal opposition entitled \"Common Sense\"). She wrote six Town Eclogues. She wrote notable letters describing her travels through Europe and the Ottoman Empire; these appeared after her death in three volumes. Lady Mary corresponded with Anne Wortley and wrote courtship letters to her future husband Edward Wortley Montagu, as well as love letters to Francesco Algarotti. She corresponded with notable writers, intellectuals and aristocrats of her day. She wrote gossip letters and letters berating the vagaries of fashionable people to her sister, Lady Mar, and exchanged intellectual letters with her adult daughter, Lady Bute. Although not published during her lifetime, her letters from Turkey were clearly intended for print. She revised them extensively and gave a transcript to the Rev. Benjamin Sowden in Rotterdam in 1761. During the twentieth century Lady Mary's letters were edited separately from her essays, poems and plays.\n\nMontagu's Turkish letters were to prove an inspiration to later generations of European women travellers and writers. In particular, Montagu staked a claim to the authority of women's writing, due to their ability to access private homes and female-only spaces where men were not permitted. The title of her published letters refers to \"Sources that Have Been Inaccessible to Other Travellers\". The letters themselves frequently draw attention to the fact that they present a different (and, Montagu asserts, more accurate) description than that provided by previous (male) travellers: \"You will perhaps be surpriz'd at an Account so different from what you have been entertaind with by the common Voyage-writers who are very fond of speaking of what they don't know.\". Montagu provides an intimate description of the women's bathhouse in Sofia, in which she derides male descriptions of the bathhouse as a site for unnatural sexual practices, instead insisting that it was \"the Women’s coffee house, where all the news of the Town is told, Scandal invented, etc\". However, Montagu's detailed descriptions of nude Oriental beauties provided inspiration for male artists such as Ingres, who restored the explicitly erotic content that Montagu had denied. In general, Montagu dismisses the quality of European travel literature of the 18th century as nothing more than \"trite observations…superficial…[of] boys [who] only remember where they met with the best wine or the prettyest women.\".\n\nMontagu's Turkish letters were frequently cited by imperial women travellers, more than a century after her journey. Such writers cited Montagu's assertion that women travellers could gain an intimate view of Turkish life that was not available to their male counterparts. However, they also added corrections or elaborations to her observations.\n\nIn 1739 a book was printed by an unknown author under the pseudonym \"Sophia, a person of quality\", titled \"Woman not Inferior to Man\". This book is often attributed to Lady Mary.\n\nHer \"Letters and Works\" were published in 1837. Montagu's octogenarian granddaughter Lady Louisa Stuart contributed to this, anonymously, an introductory essay called \"Biographical Anecdotes of Lady M. W. Montagu\", from which it was clear that Stuart was troubled by her grandmother's focus on sexual intrigues and did not see Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's \"Account of the Court of George I at his Accession\" as history. However, Montagu's historical observations, both in the \"Anecdotes\" and the \"Turkish Embassy Letters,\" prove quite accurate when put in context. Despite the availability of her work in print and the revival efforts of feminist scholars, the complexity and brilliance of Lady Mary Wortley Montagu's extensive body of work has not yet been recognised to the fullest.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28847481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28847481", "title": "List of photo manipulation controversies", "text": "List of photo manipulation controversies\n\nThe emergence of digital photography has created new realms of opportunity for the manipulation, reproduction, and transmission of images. The ease with which digital photographs can be manipulated has made the ethical issues involved in photo manipulation more prominent, and resulted in numerous cases where altered images created controversy. The following is a list of some notable incidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "2253555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2253555", "title": "List of social fraternities and sororities", "text": "List of social fraternities and sororities\n\nSocial or general fraternities and sororities, in the North American fraternity system, are those that do not promote a particular profession (as professional fraternities are) or discipline (such as service fraternities and sororities). Instead, their primary purposes are often stated as the development of character, literary or leadership ability, or a more simple social purpose. Some organizations in this list have a specific major listed as a traditional emphasis. These organizations are social organizations which cater to students in those majors. Other organizations listed have a traditional emphasis in a specific religion or ethnic background, such as Christian fraternities and sororities. Despite this emphasis, most organizations have non-discrimination membership policies.\n\nFraternity is usually understood to mean a social organization composed only of men, and sorority one of women, although many women's organizations and co-ed organizations also refer to themselves as fraternities. For the purposes of this article, \"national\" also includes \"international\" organizations, and \"local\" refers to organizations that are composed of only one chapter. This list of North American fraternities and sororities is not exhaustive and does not include local organizations that do not have Wikipedia articles.\n\nCoeducational fraternities permit both male and female members. \n\n"}
{"id": "5537902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5537902", "title": "Luc Bondy", "text": "Luc Bondy\n\nLuc Bondy (17 July 194828 November 2015) was a Swiss theatre and film director.\n\nTrained in Paris with the theatre teacher Jacques Lecoq, he received a job in 1969 as an assistant at the Hamburg Thalia Theatre. In a surprise, he took over in 1985 after the resignation of Peter Stein at the Schaubühne in Berlin. He also worked as a producer of both plays and operas at the Salzburg Festival, and in 1985 as a director at the Vienna Festival. \n\nHe was the director of the most recent version of \"Tosca\", by Puccini, at the Metropolitan Opera in New York. Both the opera, as well as the director, were greeted by loud boos on opening night, 21 September 2009. The reception was generally negative. James Levine, the music director at the Metropolitan Opera likened the production to a 'Hitchcock movie' and the cultural critic for the \"New York Times\", Charles McGrath, felt that the new production was a part of Gelb's mission to transform the Met by emphasizing theatricality.\n\nIn an interview after the premier of Marc-André Dalbavie's opera \"Charlotte Salomon\", Bondy was asked whether his being Jewish had anything to do with his having directed the production. \"So I said to her this is a production about a Jewish artist...the subject is the story of Charlotte Salomon\" said Bondy, who then walked out on the interviewer. \n\nHe died on 28 November 2015 in Zurich.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170431", "title": "Market system", "text": "Market system\n\nA market system is any systematic process enabling many market players to bid and ask: helping bidders and sellers interact and make deals. It is not just the price mechanism but the entire system of regulation, qualification, credentials, reputations and clearing that surrounds that mechanism and makes it operate in a social context.\n\nBecause a market system relies on the assumption that players are constantly involved and unequally enabled, a market system is distinguished specifically from a voting system where candidates seek the support of voters on a less regular basis. However, the interactions between market and voting systems are an important aspect of political economy, and some argue they are hard to differentiate, e.g. systems like cumulative voting and runoff voting involve a degree of market-like bargaining and trade-off, rather than simple statements of choice.\n\nIn economics, market forms are studied. These look at the impacts of a particular form on larger markets, rather than technical characteristics of how bidders and sellers interact.\n\nHeavy reliance on many interacting market systems and different forms of markets is a feature of capitalism, and advocates of socialism often criticize markets and aim to substitute markets with economic planning to varying degrees. Competition is the regulatory mechanism of the market system. This article does not discuss the political impact of any particular system nor applications of a particular mechanism to any particular problem in real life. For more on specific types of real-life markets, see commodity markets, insurance markets, bond markets, energy markets, flea markets, debt markets, stock markets, online auctions, media exchange markets, real estate market, each of which is explained in its own article with features of its application, referring to market systems as such if needed. One of the most important characteristics of a market economy, also called a free enterprise economy, is the role of a limited government [citation needed].\n\nThe market itself provides a medium of exchange for the contracts and coupons and cash to seek prices relative to each other, and for those to be publicized. This publication of current prices is a key feature of market systems, and is often relevant far beyond the current groups of buyers and sellers, affecting others' supply and demand decisions, e.g. whether to produce more of a commodity whose price is now falling.\nMarket systems are more abstract than their application to any one use, and typically a 'system' describes a protocol of offering or requesting things for sale. Well-known market systems that are used in many applications include:\nThe term 'laissez-faire' (\"let alone\") is sometimes used to describe some specific compromise between regulation and black market, resulting in the political struggle to define or exploit \"free markets\". This is not an easy matter to separate from other debates about the nature of capitalism. There is no such thing as a \"free\" market other than in the sense of a black market, and most free-market advocates favor at least some form of regulated market, e.g. to prevent outright fraud, theft, and retain some degree of credibility with the larger public. This political debate is out of the scope of this article, other than to note that the \"free\" market is usually a \"less regulated\" market, but not qualitatively different from other regulated markets, in any society with laws, and that what opponents of \"free markets\" usually seek is some kind of moral purchasing rather than pure rationing.\n\nAs this debate suggests, key debates over market systems relate to their accessibility, safety, fairness, and ability to guarantee clearance and closure of all transactions in a reasonable period of time.\n\nThe degree of trust in a political or economic authority (such as a bank or central bank) is often critical in determining the success of a market. A market system depends inherently on a stable money system to ensure that units of account and standards of deferred payment are uniform across all players - and to ensure that the balance of contracts due within that market system are accepted as a store of value, i.e. as \"collateral\" of the holder of the contract, which justifies \"credit\" from a lender of cash.\n\nBanks, themselves, are often described in terms of markets, as \"transducers of trust\" between lenders (who deposit money) and borrowers (who take it out again). Trust in the bank to manage this process makes more economic activity possible. However, critics say, this trust is also quite easy to abuse, and has many times proven difficult to limit or control (see business cycle), resulting in 'runs on banks' and other such 'crises of trust' in 'the system'.\n\nIn \"The Economics of Innocent Fraud\", Economist John Kenneth Galbraith criticized the concept of the \"market system\" as nonsensical and as a weasel word intended to replace the term \"capitalism\", but which does not specify anything specific.\n\n"}
{"id": "11208640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11208640", "title": "Mbaka people", "text": "Mbaka people\n\nThe Mbaka are a minority ethnic group in the Central African Republic and northwest Democratic Republic of the Congo. The M'Baka speak the Mbaka language and have a population of roughly 300,000.\n\nThe Mbakas speak Mbaka language, a Ubangian language. The Gilima variety is assigned to a separate ISO 639-3 code.\n\n"}
{"id": "11773724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11773724", "title": "Mike Cappelletti", "text": "Mike Cappelletti\n\nArmand Michael Cappelletti (April 18, 1938 – November 14, 2013) was an American lawyer most widely known as a bridge player and poker authority. \n\nCappelletti was born in Providence, Rhode Island, the son of carpenter Armand \"Mondo\" Cappelletti and Rose Marie (\"née\" Pugliese). Both sets of his grandparents were born in Italy.\n\nHe later lived in Alexandria, Virginia, where he practiced for the U.S. Department of Justice and later as a public defender in Washington, D.C. Among poker players he is known as the author of the books \"Cappelletti on Omaha\", \"The Best of Cappelletti on Omaha\", \"Poker at the Millennium\" and \"How to Win at Omaha High-Low Poker\", and also as columnist for the poker magazine, \"CardPlayer\". He is well known among bridge players as the inventor of the Cappelletti convention. Cappelletti was an American Contract Bridge League (ACBL) Grand Life Master with more than 24,000 masterpoints. He won a bronze medal in the 1974 World Mixed Teams. Cappelletti also authored the book \"100 Bridge Problems: Using Poker Tactics in Contract Bridge.\"\n\nCappelletti made some contributions to bridge bidding including Cappelletti over notrump, Cappelletti over one-of-a-major doubled, Cappelletti two-suited cuebids.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38650578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38650578", "title": "Million Women Rise", "text": "Million Women Rise\n\nMillion Women Rise (MWR) is a women-only march and rally against violence against women, held annually in London on a Saturday close to International Women's Day, 8 March. The march starts in Hyde Park and moves through Oxford Street in the famous West End shopping district, stopping traffic. It is followed by a rally in Trafalgar Square, with survivors of violence speaking to the crowd.\n\nMWR has no corporate sponsors, and the organisers are grassroots activists without ties to large charities or NGOs. It was founded in 2007 by campaigner and former outreach worker Sabrina Qureshi. She was motivated in part by her childhood experiences growing up on a multicultural London housing estate, where violence against women was often treated as normal and unremarkable. She was also inspired by women's movements around the world, including women she met during a visit to Palestine and the DRC who continued their activism even amid danger and violence.\n\nOUR REALITY IN THE UK TODAY:\n\nOne woman in four will experience domestic violence at some point in her life.\n\nDomestic violence has more repeat victims than any other crime (on average there will have been 35 assaults before a victim calls the police).\n\nTwo women are murdered every week by their partner or ex partner.\n\nOne incident of domestic violence is reported to the police every minute.\n\nOne woman in four will experience sexual assault as an adult.\n\nOnly 5% of rapes reported to the police result in the perpetrator being convicted in court.\n\nWomen are more worried about rape than any other crime.\n\n250 cases of forced marriage are reported each year.\n\nUp to 1,420 women per year are trafficked into the UK for sexual exploitation\n\nOne woman a month is murdered in the name of ‘so called’ honour.\n\nNearly 90% of local authorities do not have a rape crisis centre.\n\nOver 20,000 girls could be at risk of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) in the UK.\n\nMillion Women Rise (MWR) believes that male violence against women and children is a global pandemic. Violence devastates the lives of women, our families, and our communities. It also threatens to undermine efforts to bring about sustainable development. Therefore, our campaign to end violence against women is an international struggle for female emancipation and liberty\n\n2. .https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2015/feb/13/police-million-women-rise-rally-private-security\n\n3. http://www.millionwomenrise.com\n"}
{"id": "24312115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24312115", "title": "Mirwais Ashraf", "text": "Mirwais Ashraf\n\nMirwais Ashraf Khan () (born June 30, 1988) is a right-handed batsman and right-arm fast-medium bowler who plays for the Afghanistan national cricket team.\n\nAshraf made his One Day International (ODI) debut against the Netherlands at the VRA Cricket Ground on 30 August 2009. Ashraf also made his first-class cricket debut against the same opponents in Afghanistan's debut match in the Intercontinental Cup, where in the Netherlands' second innings he took four wickets for 24 runs to help set up an historic Afghan win by one wicket.\n\n"}
{"id": "10222579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10222579", "title": "Norwegian Vietnamese", "text": "Norwegian Vietnamese\n\nNorwegian Vietnamese or Vietnamese Norwegian refers to citizens or naturalized residents of Norway of Vietnamese descent.\n\nWhen this article describes Vietnamese living in Norway, it primarily means persons with two parents born in Vietnam. Thus, statistics used in this article do not include Vietnamese-descended persons with only one parent, or no parents born in Vietnam.\n\nThe first waves of Vietnamese immigrants to Norway came after the Fall of Saigon, in 1975. They escaped Vietnam by boat, and were also known as the boat people. Some were picked up by Norwegian cargo ships and came to Norway after spending some months in refugee camps in East Asia and Southeast Asia. Most of these boat people came in the period from 1978 to 1985. Later immigrants have come as a cause of family-reunification and economic reasons.\n\nAs of January 1, 2017, the Norwegian Statistisk Sentralbyrå reported that there were 22,658 Vietnamese people in Norway. Vietnamese Norwegians were the eight-largest immigrant group over all and the fourth-largest immigrant group from outside Europe after Pakistanis, Somalis and Iraqis.\n\nThe Vietnamese were among the first from the third world to immigrate to Norway. Eight out of ten Vietnamese have lived in Norway for more than ten years, and nine out of ten possess Norwegian citizenship.\n\nAround 5,000 Vietnamese Norwegians live in Oslo, where they are the eighth-largest immigrant group. There are also significant groups of Vietnamese living in Bergen, Kristiansand, and Trondheim. They are the largest immigrant group in Kristiansand, and the second-largest in Bergen and Trondheim.\n\nVietnamese culture places heavy emphasis on education. Even though the elder first generation immigrants in the age of 30 to 44 often don't have a higher education, the second generation, and the younger first generation immigrants from 19 to 24 years old, generally have a much higher education level. A 2012 study found that Vietnamese Norwegians—both those born in Norway, and the foreign-borns—had slightly better grades than ethnic Norwegians in secondary school despite their parents having lower education. A survey from 2006 reported that 88 percent of Vietnamese finished upper secondary school, the same percent as ethnic Norwegians. A 2006 survey also showed that Vietnamese had the highest grades in upper secondary school among the ten largest non-western immigrant groups in Norway, averaging similar grades as Norwegians.\n\nA 2006 survey showed that Vietnamese was the ethnic group that had the fourth highest percentage whom finished a bachelor degree (after Indians, Chinese, and Norwegians) and the ethnic group with the third highest percentage whom finished a masters degree. The Vietnamese especially have many representatives in higher education, as there is a 10 percent bigger chance for a Vietnamese-Norwegian having finished higher education than a Norwegian.\n\nVietnamese in Norway are not active in the country's politics. As of December 2006, there was only one Vietnamese in a municipal council in Norway. At the municipal- and countyelection (kommune- og fylkestingsvalg) in 2003, only 30 percent of the Vietnamese-Norwegians voted. It has been pointed out that though the voting percentage of elder Vietnamese (40 to 59 years old) at 51% is relatively high—compared to other non-western immigrant groups of the same age (44%)—it is the younger generation of Vietnamese Norwegians that pull the numbers down. In 2003, only 17% of the Vietnamese Norwegians in the age groups between 18 and 25, and 22% between 26 and 39, voted.\n\nAs a result of most Vietnamese coming to Norway as political or war refugees fleeing the Communist Vietnam, they are in general critical of the Vietnamese government. Fleeing the country was viewed as treason by the Vietnamese government during the 1970s and 1980s. However, the trend has turned and Vietnam now view the overseas Vietnamese as assets to the country's rapidly growing economy.\n\nThe Vietnamese are one of the immigrant groups in Norway that most often send money to families in their home country. Over 60% of those who came to the country as adults reported as regularly sending money home to their families. The number regularly sending money to Vietnam among Vietnamese-born in Norway or arrived in the country as children, were over 40%. The Vietnamese coming to Norway as adults send more and more money, the longer they have stayed in their new country.\n\nThough widely perceived as one of the best integrated non-western immigrant groups, there still remain some challenges for the Vietnamese community in Norway. A 2002 survey reported that 3.2% of Vietnamese Norwegians had been punished for breaking the law. The number for ethnic Norwegians were 1.35%. A social anthropologist studying the Vietnamese community said there was an \"either...or\" phenomenon among the Vietnamese, with those not succeeding in school falling into delinquency. The same trend has also been observed among the Vietnamese Americans. A stronger connection between the parents and the kids that fall out has been wanted. The relative low proficiency among Vietnamese in Norwegian, and a small vocabulary, has also been analysed as important challenges remaining.\n\nMany Vietnamese, especially among the older generation, have experienced traumas during and after the Vietnam War. A survey conducted on 148 randomly chosen Vietnamese refugees, up to three years after arriving in Norway, showed that many of them had experienced war up close. Sixty-two percent had witnessed bombings, fires, and shooting, and forty-eight percent had witnessed someone been injured or killed. One out of four had been in life-threatening situations and/or injured during the war. One out of ten had been in re-education camps. Former inmates describe them as close to concentration camps, where they did not know how long they had to stay, and were victims of extreme methods of punishing.\n\nThe traumas affected the refugees psychological health even seven years after the war. After three years in Norway, there was still no sign of change in the psychological strain on the refugees. One out of four had a psychological suffering. Depression was the most common diagnosis, with 18% being clinically depressed. Psychological illness in Norway was linked with traumas experienced during the time in Vietnam, in addition to lack of an entrusted partner during the escape from the country, and severance from close family. One out of three reported post-traumatic worries, and one out of ten were diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).\n\n"}
{"id": "5786097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5786097", "title": "Orma people", "text": "Orma people\n\nThe Orma people are an ethnic community found in eastern Kenya, mostly along the lower Tana River. They also inhabit the Southern regions of Somalia in the Lower Juba and Middle Juba regions specifically. They are semi-nomadic shepherds, and they live in the southeastern deserts of Kenya except during the rainy season, when they move their herds inland.\n\nThe Orma have a population of about 70,000 people (2005). They are related to the Borana Oromo people to the north and speak the Orma language, a variety of Oromo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35232555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35232555", "title": "Pará Arára language", "text": "Pará Arára language\n\nArára is a Cariban language of Pará, Brazil. It is spoken by the Arara and perhaps other related groups.\n\nTwo of the sixteen consonants, /ʙ̥, h/ occur infrequently. /ʙ̥/ only occurs in expressive words, or before the vowel /u/. /h/ only occurs after a coronal consonant, like /a/ or /u/. There is also a specially rare occurrence of two implosive consonants, /ɓ/ and /ɗ/.\n\nThe language is spoken by a people who includes tribes still uncontacted. They live mainly in three villages: Cachoeira Seca, Laranjal and Maia. However, the natives of the latter have switched to Portuguese, while 85 speakers still remain in Cachoeira Seca and 250 in Laranjal.\n\nLinguist Isaac Costa de Souza studied the language and concluded some words were modified when used to talk to different animals. The table below shows some modified words used when speaking to a capuchin monkey.\n\nDifferent modifications are used according to the species of animal being addressed. The word \"ikpa\", for example, might be modified as \"tɔkpa\" when addressing a dog, or as \"ĩkpã\" when addressing a howler monkey. Specific modifications may be used when talking to woodpeckers, tortoises, and coatis, among other animals.\n"}
{"id": "17536769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17536769", "title": "Petate", "text": "Petate\n\nA petate is a bedroll used in Central America and Mexico. Its name comes from the Náhuatl word \"petlatl\" . The petate is woven from the fibers of the Palm of petate (\"Leucothrinax morrisii\"). The Royal Spanish Academy defines it as a bed. Generally petates are woven in quadrangular forms, though not to any exact dimensions. \n\nThe main use of the petate is for sleeping. It can be extended on the ground for lying down or sleeping. During the day the petate normally rolls up and hangs from the wall, freeing up space in the room. In very warm places it is used to sleep outdoors. Also it is used for drying seeds, grains, tortillas, and other foodstuffs in the sun, to prevent their touching the ground. In several places in Mexico, pumpkinseeds dried on a petate and then roasted are commonly called \"semillas de calabaza.\" Other items made from the fibers of the palm are known as \"artesanias de petate\" (handicrafts made from the fibers of the palm) including toys, dolls, masks, hats, and baskets.\n\nThe petate's diverse characteristics and uses have inspired a number of colorful Spanish idioms:\n"}
{"id": "23443360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23443360", "title": "Polygamy in Angola", "text": "Polygamy in Angola\n\nAlthough polygamy is officially illegal in Angola, the practice is known to be widely socially acceptable and very prevalent among the Angolan population. Many women live polygamously due to the shortage of men since the civil war. Angola does not recognize polygamous marriages under civil law or customary law.\n"}
{"id": "945296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=945296", "title": "Public holidays in the Central African Republic", "text": "Public holidays in the Central African Republic\n\nThis is a list of public holidays in the Central African Republic\n"}
{"id": "29693595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29693595", "title": "Raj caste", "text": "Raj caste\n\nThe Raj are a Hindu - Punjabi, mainly Brahmin community found in the state of Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Bihar, Gujarat etc in India.The community mainly consists of Brahmin and rajputs.\n\nThere are two communities having Raj caste: Brahmins and Rajputs. There are Raj people who are Brahmins of Gautam gotra. the community has a mixed origin, with what was once a guild evolving into an caste. In western Uttar Pradesh, a fair number of the community is of brahmin origin. The community gets its name from the Hindi word rajah or headman. They are found throughout Uttar Pradesh. The Raj are found in greater numbers in the districts of Moradabad, Bijnor, Saharanpur and Muzaffarnagar. They speak both Urdu and Khari boli.\n\n"}
{"id": "13662363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13662363", "title": "Self-uniting marriage", "text": "Self-uniting marriage\n\nA self-uniting marriage is one in which the couple are married without the presence of a third-party officiant. Although non-denominational, this method of getting married is sometimes referred to as a \"Quaker Marriage\".\n\nPennsylvania has recognized such marriages for centuries (due to its Quaker origins and history of religious tolerance) and has offered licenses for these marriages for decades. These marriages only require the signatures of two witnesses in place of an officiant.\n\nThe issuance of self-uniting marriage licenses is controversial, however. Some Pennsylvania counties do not offer this form of license at all. Others only allowed such marriages when license applicants could prove they were members of a recognized religion without clergy, such as Quakers, the Amish, and the Bahá'í Faith;<ref name=\"http://aclupa.org/legal/legaldocket/couplerefusedselfunitingma\">Knelly v. Wagner, Federal Court, Western District. </ref> however, in 2007, a Federal judge ruled that a Pennsylvania couple that was denied a self-uniting marriage on the basis of their secular beliefs must be allowed such a license.\n\nIllinois law states that \"if no individual acting alone solemnized the marriage, both parties to the marriage, shall complete the marriage certificate form and forward it to the county clerk within 10 days after such marriage is solemnized.\" Nonetheless, such weddings must be \"in accordance with the prescriptions of any religious denomination, Indian Nation or Tribe or Native Group.\"\n\nWisconsin allows self-uniting marriages, without asking questions, but a form must be signed that states that the government issuing the marriage license cannot guarantee that the marriage will be recognized in all contexts.\n\nColorado allows self-solemnization without requiring a special form of application or witnesses.\n\nThe District of Columbia allows couples to officiate their own wedding. \n\nCalifornia allows \"non-clergy marriage\" by \"members of a particular religious society or denomination not having clergy for the purpose of solemnizing marriage or entering the marriage relation,\" provided that specified forms, including the signatures of two witnesses, are properly completed and filed. An atheist couple in San Francisco reportedly were allowed to have a non-clergy marriage under this provision of California law, by entering \"atheist\" in the box for \"religious society or denomination\" on the non-clergy marriage form.\n\nAnother section of California law allows for marriages without formal clergy (but not self-uniting) by letting the county clerk appoint someone as a \"deputy commissioner of civil marriages\", typically for a day, who may solemnize marriages.\n\nMaine exempts \"Quakers or Friends\" and \"members of the Baha'i faith\" from the requirement for a third-party officiant.\n\nNevada law provides that, \"All marriages solemnized among the people called 'Friends' or 'Quakers,' in the forms heretofore practiced and in use in their meetings, shall be good and valid.\"\n\nKansas law provides that, \"The two parties themselves, by mutual declarations that they take each other as husband and wife, in accordance with the customs, rules and regulations of any religious society, denomination or sect to which either of the parties belong, may be married without an authorized officiating person.\". And further provides that, \"All marriages solemnized among the society called Friends, or Quakers, in the form previously practiced and in use in their meetings shall be good and valid and shall not be construed as affected by any of the foregoing provisions of this act.\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2088249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2088249", "title": "Social problem film", "text": "Social problem film\n\nA social problem film is a narrative film that integrates a larger social conflict into the individual conflict between its characters. Like many film genres, the exact definition is often in the eye of the beholder, but Hollywood did produce and market a number of topical films in the 1930s and by the 1940s, the term \"social problem\" or \"message\" film was conventional in its usage among the film industry and the public. Many characteristics that have grown to define the social problem film revolve around the perceived consciousness of the nation about a certain social issue and integrating that issue into a narrative structure. Social problems such as the horrors of war, suffering of the poor, addiction, the rights of women, and the inhumanity of a certain world are often put on display. The problem with defining this type of film as a genre lies within the ability it has to separate itself from films that display similar style, as a lot of films do address social issues. However, the social problem film differentiates itself by focusing on the problems within the historical context of the current time, dealing with the social issue of a certain era as it applies to that era with a style that is much more didactic than its contemporaries. Furthermore, the social problem film allows further immersion into a certain issue than other genre films. For instance, gangster and prison films will reflect certain features of a social issue but won't actually fully explore the problem in the way that would qualify it for this genre.\n\nAn important fact of the social problem film is its ability to react and display a social problem that is relevant to the current era it was produced in. It specifically addresses an issue while the issue is still part of the national consciousness, often forming an argument for what the problem actually is through the narrative and character development. Early social problem films often blended ideological feelings of the time into a narrative which translated it into a message for audiences to absorb. This can be evidenced within certain sociological experiments that occurred revolving around the ability for a film to change public perception. A prime example of this is the representation of anti-semitism within the film \"Gentleman's Agreement\" and the subsequent sociological study by Russell Middleton that measured perceived anti-semitism before and after seeing the film. Surprisingly the film seemed to positively affect the subjects as the majority of people who participated in the study had markedly less anti-semitic feelings than before they saw the film. Although there are certain factors that need to be considered this study seems to indicate once again the primary didactic nature of the Social Problem Film as well as the tackling of subject matter relevant to the current era of the film and how audiences of the historical period perceived such a message.\n\nThis phenomenon of historical context and audience reaction created an interesting balance between the teaching nature of the film and its ability to contain an interesting narrative. Oftentimes the earlier films of the classical era can be seen as a bit preachy, often appearing less like a fictional feature and more like a public service announcement. This is displayed in the common occurrence of a teaching moment often near the end of the film where a character will literally give a speech often referring to the social message the film is attempting to portray. Examples can be seen through the judges at the end of \"Wild Boys of the Road\" and \"Where Are My Children?\", both of whom provide a lesson in monologue form that almost seems separate from the fictional narrative being presented. This relevance to the problem of the era the film resides in lends a sort of didactic authority to this type of film that others may not have. For instance, the film \"Where Are My Children?\" had trouble getting through the National Board of Review to public release due to reviewers believing that audiences were being provided with misleading information regarding birth control. They believed that the film was more educational in nature rather than a fictional narrative addressing a social issue.\n\nThe social problem film often takes a larger social issue during its respective era and displays it in a much more focused way. The problem will be expressed through a narrative often involving a few characters, often a family or an individual that traverses the filmic world experiencing the perceived social issue. Oftentimes they will interact directly with social institutions meant to display the social problems.The typifying of these institutions is styled based on the overall ideological message of the film, either being portrayed as ineffective or idealized as a proper solution. These can be seen throughout the development of the social problem film and even into contemporary times as the form of the social problem film changed. Examples if this style of narrative are apparent within films such as \"The Soul of Youth\" in which the larger problem of delinquent children with no home is portrayed through the ineffectiveness of the orphanage the protagonist resides in juxtaposed with the idealized life of the family of the judge he eventually settles in with. Another instance that deserves to be mentioned comes once again from \"Wild Boys of the Road\" in which the film reaches its climax as the protagonists are being dealt with by a judge, bringing the larger social issue into an individualist lens by applying the solution of a nationwide problem to a few individual experiences.\n\nAnother important Social Problem Film dealing with institutions is the alcoholism themed \"Days of Wine and Roses\". The film follows the progressive demise of a couple due to their inability to control their drinking, once again devolving a larger societal problem onto a focused set of characters. It does however, offer a solution in the form of the institution of Alcoholic's Anonymous which serves as an effective way to treat one's self. A sociological study done by Elizabeth Hirschman revealed that the film's portrayal was indeed relatable to addicts and alcoholics who after watching the film viewed AA as a viable option to address their problem. This effect on the real population indicates the interaction that Social Problem Films hope to have on their audience in comparison to films meant to purely entertain while skimming the surface of certain issues.\n\nA more contemporary instance of the focused narrative of characters and institutions in the Social Problem Film is the ineffectiveness and cruelty of the military hospital in \"Coming Home\", a movie about returning vets from Vietnam. The mistreatment and negligent behavior affecting all vets in the hospital is reduced to the experiences of two or three characters.\n\nOne aspect that is widely seen within the social problem film is the usage of non-actors to portray either background characters or voices of reason within the narrative as well as the desire to film scenes on location. Both of these factors help lend authenticity and relation to the real world which is essential to the genre. Some notable examples are the inclusion of actual Judge Ben Lindsey playing himself in the previously mentioned film \"The Soul of Youth\". This insertion created an environment the audience knew was based in reality and thus lent a sense of authenticity to the didactic nature this genre possesses. The presence of a figure from the real world directly confronts the idea that the messages displayed in social problem films must be confirmed by real life counterparts. It lends a sense of integrity reminiscent of journalism or a documentary film.\n\nLocation shooting is a factor that although not limited to the social problem film, has grown to exemplify certain factors within the genre. The idea of shooting outside of a studio and in the real environment again strengthens the films authenticity in the same way non-actors do. A film that utilized this style of shooting in order to gain this sense of realism is the previously mentioned \"Wild Boys of the Road\". The film's scenes that are set within the train yard that the children temporarily reside in is shot on location in an actual train yard in Glendale, Ca.\n\nPerhaps the most notable instance of the idea of real life insertions is the opening scene of the social problem film about Mexican immigration following the instituting of the Bracero Program in 1942 meant to alleviate the shortage of farmhand work in the United States. The film, titled \"Border Incident\", opens with a flyover shot of farmland as an unseen narrator describes the landscape, the lack of labor, and the subsequent creation of the bracero program in response. This is an insertion of a program that actively was occurring during the production of this film. This reality-based narrative combines with the voice over, which mentions borders no less than five times to subtly push an ideology of mutual dependency towards the audience while allowing itself the appearance of being an authentic representation of the situation, showing again the effect real life insertions can have on the social problem films ability to affect its viewers.\n\nMany social problem films contain a theme of transit and the importance of familial relationships. These factors lend further authenticity to the genre as the audience seems to often follow the protagonist as he or she travels a necessary journey to arrive at a viable solution. Internal journeys are often mirrored in literal transportation of the characters. This can be seen in the traveling across the nation in \"Wild Boys of the Road\", the trip to the doctor's office in \"Where Are My Children?\", and the international migration of farmworkers in \"Border Incident\". Similarly the idea of the family is apparent within this genre, oftentimes the idea of the family is of utmost importance. There is a finality in terms of the protagonists descent when he or she has lost the trust and support of their family, and thus the social problem is often resolved by a return to these ideals. Although wartime feelings can account for some of this, it is important to note that this theme is maintained throughout the development of the genre. Even in more contemporary social problem films such as \"Coming Home\" and \"The Good Lie\", there is a sense of familial importance, the former in terms of his \"brothers\" who he stands by no matter what, and the latter in the form of their tribe members who travel thousands of miles for a new life.\n\nHistorian Kay Sloan has shown how various reformist groups made social problem shorts and features during the silent era. Generally, these dealt with prohibition, labor relations and concerns over \"white slavery.\" The ideologies of these pre-World War I productions often aligned with concerns over the worker and the interaction filmmakers had with real world problems. This was important to the development of the genre as it was the first foray into displaying issues of the common man but wasn't successful in terms of offering a viable solution. Rather, the didactic nature of these films indicated an upper-middle class solution to labor issues; oftentimes it would take the presence of a non-working class negotiator to resolve the issues laborers in the films dealt with. The discovery of the effect of and utilization of the happy ending was also implemented during this time. The happy ending left a cathartic effect on its audience, leaving them satisfied with the social message being provided. This itself is an imperative to the social problem genre due to its demonstration of directors and filmmakers desire to affect social change through movies. As a genre, however, these Progressive statements did not touch off a long-lasting concern in the film industry, which was solidifying behind standardized product, oligopoly and the star system.\n\nWarner Brothers under Darryl F. Zanuck started making topical films \"ripped from the headlines.\" These \"headliners\" generally were cheaply made, gritty in their realist aesthetic, and foregrounded a working class milieu and New Deal political sympathies. The social problem films of this era reflected the general national consciousness of the New Deal. Many social problem films of the time fed into a populist form of thought meant to instill confidence among the nation in the wake of the Great Depression, supporting the Franklin Delano Roosevelt platform that supposedly would alleviate the unemployment problem the United States faced at that time. Social problem films made during this era put the obligation of finding work on the individual while also displaying the benefits of having a neighborly attitude of helping those in need back to sustainable living. This is particularly displayed in films such as \"Wild Boys of the Road\" where the protagonist runs away from home with friends to try and find work, only to end up arrested and in need of assistance, which is subsequently granted by a Judge. The films interaction with New Deal ideologies is reflected in the confident tone of the judge as he grants aid to the homeless kids presented to him, the progressive nature of neighborly helpfulness is thrust upon the audience without allowing them to contemplate the fact that it took a middle class figure to save the unemployed. Just as the New Deal gave confidence in the short term but lagged in long-term growth for employment so did the social problem films of this time depict a sense of optimism even if they were stuck in the non-progressive narrative of a middle class savior.\n\nMervy LeRoy's \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\" was the most notable of the genre, and its success led Warner Brothers and other studios to copy the formula.\n\nMeanwhile, at Columbia Pictures, Frank Capra made his reputation (among the industry and filmgoing public alike; a rarity in those days) by developing his signature blend of social problem film and screwball comedy. Working with writer Robert Riskin, he would develop, repeat and refine this blend in films like \"Mr. Deeds Goes to Town\", \"Meet John Doe\", and \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\".\n\nThe postwar social problem films marked a noticeable shift away from economic problems to ones of social and psychological adjustment. This is perhaps due to the idea of returning veterans ability to become reestablished in normal society. As the thoughts and feelings of the nation progressed from worrying about unemployment to the horrors of war and rehabilitation of those suffering from addiction, so did the social problem film adapt to the national consciousness of its time. William Wyler's \"Best Years of Our Lives\" chronicled three returning veterans adjusting to civilian life. It was particularly powerful in that it served as a soothing to the anxieties many Americans felt about the returning of veterans to society. The national fear included the idea that these returning veterans would be bitter among their return not feeling properly reciprocated while also changed from the horrors they had seen. Also factoring in was the idea that the nuclear family had been broken up. The film addressed this social problem through its optimistic portrayal of the struggle for normalization, using a protagonist who had lost both hands in the war, notedly played by a non-professional actor who had that same experience, Harold Russell. The film depicts the intense male bonding that occurs during wartime in a positive way, showing the support each of the men have for each other. It also shows the struggles they face upon returning to their pre-war lives, although in an attempt to alleviate national anxiety the film ultimately resolves itself into a happy ending in which everything is reconciled. Although this film follows the general guidelines of a social problem film from the classic era such as usage of non-actors, the importance of historical context, a melodramatic feeling, and the didactic nature of the genre, the identification and solution to the social problem is less of a warning to society and more about increasing positive feelings in a nation reeling from the horrors of war.\n\nBilly Wilder's \"Lost Weekend\" was about alcoholism, inaugurating a cycle of films dealing with drug and alcohol abuse. Films like \"Gentleman's Agreement\", \"Pinky\" and \"Home of the Brave\" tackled anti-Semitism and racism. The 1944 film \"Gaslight\" based on an earlier play, dramatized the Psychological abuse technique later known as Gaslighting(because of the film).\n\nIn particular \"Gentleman's Agreement\" addresses specific issues that plagued the postwar environment in America. The film follows a journalist as he decides to pass for Jewish in order to understand their experience. One social issue that was integrated within United States society is the categorizing of minorities together as one group; African-Americans, Asian Americans, Jews, and homosexuals were all discriminated against without distinction. Awareness of this problem was raised a bit, however, through the evils of the Nazis being revealed to the nation as a result of this type of hatred. Antisemitism became a topic of discussion among the world as well after the suffering the Jewish people had endured and the social problem film responded through attempted representation of the problem. The efforts in \"Gentleman's Agreement\" were criticized by Jewish critics for not really delving into Jewish culture at all as well as not going deep enough into the effect of the Holocaust. The film was seen as depicting antisemitism as a nasty habit rather that cultural discrimination. However, the film succeeded at a commercial level and was able to affect audiences in a way that reduced their antisemitic feelings.\n\nMcCarthyism, in the form of the House Un-American Activities Committee, dampened some of Hollywood's enthusiasm for left-leaning critiques of American society, but the genre continued nonetheless over the next two decades. Robert Wise's 1951 science fiction film \"The Day the Earth Stood Still\" urged international cooperation in matters of violence and world security in an environment of Cold War mistrust and nuclear paranoia: the \"message\" is literally delivered to the Earth by a civilized extraterrestrial. Stanley Kramer's exposés of racism—\"The Defiant Ones\", \"Pressure Point\" and \"Guess Who's Coming to Dinner\"—became synonymous with the genre. Also, \"juvenile delinquency films\" combined the censorious tone of social problem films with exploitation film and melodrama.\n\nA series of Journalistic pieces on the ineffectiveness of mental health facilities also lead to an increase in public awareness about the social problem of mental health care. In particular the exposé Bedlam 1946 caused outrage among Americans affecting the national attitude of the time, which was already in a fragile place due to Nazi horrors being revealed to the public. This combined with the untrusting environment and cold war tensions was reflected in a bevy of films about mental health, the ineffectiveness of treatment, and the way these sort of people can be helped. The social problem genre reflected this notion particularly well through its 1956 film \"Bigger Than Life\", which was consequently based on another article titled Ten Feet Tall published in The New Yorker\".\" The film tackles the social problems of mental health and addiction as it displays it's protagonist in a healthy happy familial relationship until he is forced to take cortisone for a rare disease, he abuses the medication resulting in mental health issues. The hospital and doctors in this film are shown as incompetent willing to believe anything the patient tells them and even supplying him with more cortisone when he shows drug seeking behavior.\n\nThis film also shows a marked shift from the social problem films of classic Hollywood due to a myriad of factors. In 1948, the Paramount Decrees were instituted after a landmark antitrust case by the United States against the major studios of the time. This resulted in a restriction on many forms of distribution, marketing, and time between film runs. This resulted in a shifting of power from the major studios of the time and thus they needed to find a new way to market their films. The creation of Cinemascope, which widened the aspect ratio allowing for widescreen viewing, and was viewed as the beginning of the end of the classical era of Hollywood. Having access to these new technologies the social problem film too would adapt, \"Bigger Than Life\" exhibited less didactic speech giving and allowed more interpretation from the audience as to what the social problem was.\n\nA big theme of films of the 1970s is the Vietnam War. Films such as \"Apocalypse Now\" and \"The Deer Hunter\" focused on exposing the extreme conditions, both mentally and physically, that soldiers face during deployment. The social problem film however, returns to its common theme of returning veterans, resulting in the critically acclaimed \"Coming Home\", which followed a woman whose husband was away on tour as she volunteers at the veteran hospital and befriends a crippled soldier. However, the way in which the film interacts with narrative as well as with its audience shows a shift in form that reflects attitudes of the time. The 60's and 70's were a period time when second-wave feminism became apparent, raising awareness about inequalities regarding many social issues, though it mainly focused on white upper class feminism. This national consciousness of feminist ideals combined with a wartime environment that was largely a failure, as well the inability to fully care for veterans is expressed through \"Coming Home\"'s narrative and characters while also maintaining certain factors of the classic social problem film. The feminization of the Vietnam experience can be seen through the protagonist Luke, who is able to allow Sally to transcend her role as a stereotypical military wife, while also feminizing himself as he progresses into moving back to society. The more passive, a stereotypical feminine quality, he becomes the more he is allowed to leave the horrors of Vietnam behind. This type of characterization is differs greatly from the characters we see in earlier returning veteran social problem films as they often portrayed the veteran as ultra-masculine and his wife as a traditional caretaker. Furthermore, the narrative of this film shows a marked difference from early social problem films. Instead of a didactic theme constantly being pushed on the audience, the story goes back and forth between this teaching vibe and following more of a soap opera romance formula. It is sometimes difficult to discern what the film wants us to focus on. However, the film does maintain certain characteristics of the social problem film such as a focused narrative, ending on a didactic speech, and usage of non-actors to portray the veterans at the hospital.\n\nAs the United States transitioned into the contemporary era, the social issues that encompassed the nation have adapted to focus on different aspects of the problems, especially in the case of immigration and the veteran experience, both of which feature heavily in the classic social problem film. For instance, the theme of the film \"Border Incident\" was the immigration of migrant farmworkers from Mexico. The returning veteran social problem films titled \"Best Years Of Our Lives\" and \"Coming Home\" focused on the treatment as well as the rehabilitation of veterans. In the contemporary United States an immigration social issue which has been relevant for years is the idea of refugee asylum, whereas the returning veteran storylines now often focus on the addiction to war and the inability to function normally without it.\n\nThe Sudanese refugees in particular are of focus as their country is plagued in civil war, yet asylum in the United States had been blocked due to terrorist fears. A contemporary social problem film that addresses this issue is titled \"The Good Lie\" which follows the life of a group of Sudanese children as they escape their village to a refugee camp and come to America as adults. The beginning of the film does a decent job of representing the struggle over 25,000 children faced while trekking across Africa enduring the elements, animals, and soldiers trying to kill them as it follows the protagonists as they make the journey themselves, losing some along the way. It utilizes classic techniques such as location shooting at the refugee camp and the usage of real refugees as background characters. However, the film has much more in common with the form of social problem films such as \"Coming Home\". It not only stars a famous actress in Reese Witherspoon but ultimately utilizes engagement with the narrative much more than trying to preach to its audience. As the protagonist group arrives in America the film experiences a shift from displaying the plight of these refugees to a culture clash of sorts as they struggle to adapt to American customs and realize the ineffectiveness of the bureaucratic systems meant to help them. Like \"Coming Home\", the audience is not being put in a space where the film is meant to be purely educational, rather they are encouraged to discern the social problem from the drama being displayed. This is shown in the frustration of some reviewers who claim the plot seems manufactured and doesn't focus enough on certain social issues. This particular aspect of the changing form of the social problem film is largely due to audiences desire to be entertained as well as satiated with a well formulated story to engage in.\n\nAnother instance in which this becomes palpable is in the changing representation of returning veterans. The effects of wartime on American society are fluid depending on the situation and national feelings of the time. This is evident as post-WWII films often focused on a return to home for the veterans, encouraging family life and spousal support, as well as the revealing of the capability of humans to commit evil, resulting in forays into addressing these issues. Then during Vietnam, the feminist movement combined with national feelings of regret created both hyper-masculine films depicting the horror of battle but also the returning veterans plight and a more formulaic approach to narrative instead of a didactic one. The current era then is focused on international conflict within the middle east which has created a division in terms of ideology in our country. The social problem film has adapted to encompass these feelings through films such as \"Green Zone\" which addresses the idea of false motivations for entering the war against Iraq. More pertinent to the social problem film genre however, is the idea of returning veterans. Whereas the treatment of these men has been displayed on screen, the contemporary social problem goes beyond that scope, and rather into the psyches of the soldiers themselves and the systems that perpetuate their situation. This is done through the depiction of war in a way that the 20th century would never consider, as another type of social problem, an addiction. This is the case in \"The Hurt Locker\" a 2008 film depicting the Explosive Ordnance Disposal team in Iraq. Although it did shoot on location in Jordan, utilize non-actors, and focus on a small group of people the movie is much more like more recent social problem films in that it focuses on characterization, storytelling, and filming stylization to portray its social issue more than straightforward preaching. The film is both cinematic and visceral interweaving aspects of the war in documentary style while juxtaposing it with the usage of sound and technological advances to create an intense encapsulating narrative. Again the viewer is meant to see the protagonist's mundane home life compared to his experience on tour, where he seems more at home. The film begins on a quote equating war to a drug and ends on his days on tour counter resetting to 0, indicating both the hardship these men face and how it has shaped them into being more like machines built for a purpose rather than purely motivated soldiers. These scenes show a palpable shift from telling the audience how to feel via ending monologue, to displaying the problem and letting audiences interpret it for themselves.\n\nWith the development of new technologies such as television it was inevitable that programming about social issues would become apparent. From documentaries for social justice to public broadcasting about local issues, the television is able to be accessed in ways movies can't. Certain programming such as \"The Biggest Loser\" address a specific social problem such as obesity in a setting which is presented as reality. However, in reality the whole thing is pretty much scripted. Contestants waive their rights to creating their own storyline and are trained to point of collapsing, not a healthy way to address weight loss. This pseudo-reality is problematic in that it presents a certain social problem, along with a viable solution, like diet and exercise, yet it doesn't speak to the cultural issues and systematic factors like cheap fast food in poverty stricken areas.\n\nThe rise of social media has led to a transformation of many established systems, such as advertising, news, protests, campaigning, and exposure to other cultures. The ability to instantly connect with an event occurring and to share something with the public instantly has led to a new development of networks that can be accessed at the click of a mouse. So just as these other aspects of life were effected so is the idea of the social problem film. The ability for users to obtain, via YouTube, actual real-life video of events occurring around the world makes it tougher for filmic representations to become the didactic entity they need to be in order to fit in the genre. For instance, with over 100,000 results for a search on Iraq war footage, it becomes difficult to depict a sense of reality in which the viewer can relate purely, therefore the filmmaker's artistic influence becomes more apparent. This combined with the development of news programming via television has created a sort of environment where the social problem film was forced to change form, the majority didactic approach was no longer satisfactory as people have access to actual footage, therefore the implementation of deeper characterization and richer narratives became relevant in the more contemporary entries into this genre.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33893731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33893731", "title": "Somaliland Police", "text": "Somaliland Police\n\nThe Somaliland Police is a body responsible for law enforcement in the republic of Somaliland.\n\nThe Somaliland Police falls under the Minister of Interior. It also works closely with the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) and the military. The force was founded in 1993 out of the Somali National Movement (SNM) who liberated the country from the dictator Siyaad Bare‘s regime of Somalia. It is divided according to each of Somaliland's administrative regions: Gabiley, badhan, Cayn, Salal, Sarar, Odweyne,maroodijeex, saaxil, awdal, togdheer, taleex, sanaag, sool and Hawd. Each region has a police commandant and commissioned officers. The police are tasked with carrying out criminal investigation, patrolling, and traffic management. There is also a small number of anti-riot personnel. In addition, a British-trained Special Protection Unit (SPU) is tasked with the protection of leaders and foreign dignitaries. In 2005, the armed forces and the police received 15 percent of the Somaliland budget. Most of this money went to salaries and allowances.\n\nThe US State Department's 2010 Human Rights Reports in Somalia observed that the Somaliland Police were firmly under civilian control, had not committed any unlawful killings (including demonstrators), were not conducting arbitrarily or politically motivated arrests, and were not committing torture or rape (but were also not taking direction action against people who were). The report noted that the prisons were improving, due to UN supervision. Half of the 765 prisoners in the Mandheera Prison were detained on the orders of regional or district security committees.\n\nThe Somaliland Police commissioner is General Cbadilaahi Fadal Iman. He replaced Mahamed Saqadhi Dubad. The Deputy Police Commissioner of Somaliland is Abdi Rahman Liban.\n\nAs of 2003, there were eight police stations and 24 police posts in Hargeisa.\n\nHargeisa\n\nSince at least 2010, the UNDP has been working on reforming and training the Somaliland police force. In 2010 they were also making an effort to align/merge the maritime police with the civilian police.\n\nDue to lack of funds and an arms embargo on Somalia as a whole, the guns used by the Somaliland Police belong to the individual soldiers themselves. Before joining the army, both former combatants and new recruits, are required to report for an recruitment process with their guns. A similar process is observed in other disciplined forces, including the police.\n\nMandera or Mandeerha Academy\n\n"}
{"id": "38366084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38366084", "title": "Szent-Györgyi Prize for Progress in Cancer Research", "text": "Szent-Györgyi Prize for Progress in Cancer Research\n\nThe Szent-Györgyi Prize for Progress in Cancer Research, established by National Foundation for Cancer Research (NFCR) and named in honor of Albert Szent-Györgyi, Nobel Laureate and co-founder of NFCR, has been awarded annually since 2006 to outstanding researchers whose scientific achievements have expanded the understanding of cancer and whose vision has moved cancer research in new directions. The Szent-Györgyi Prize honors researchers whose discoveries have made possible new approaches to preventing, diagnosing and/or treating cancer. The Prize recipient is honored at a formal dinner and award ceremony and receives a $25,000 cash prize. In addition, the recipient leads the next \"Szent-Györgyi Prize Committee\" as honorary chairman.\nThe Szent-Györgyi Prize is named in honor of Albert Szent-Györgyi, M.D., Ph.D. was a pioneer who challenged the conventional thinking of the day to pursue his novel ideas. After winning the Nobel Prize for his study on vitamin C and cell respiration, Dr. Szent-Györgyi set his sights on finding a way to defeat cancer. He was a leading advocate for developing resources to provide scientists with the financial support necessary to pursue novel cancer research ideas and in 1973 co-founded NFCR with entrepreneur Franklin C. Salisbury. Since then, NFCR has provided more than $300 million in support of cancer research and prevention education programs.\n\nNFCR established the Szent-Györgyi Prize to honor scientists who have made extraordinary progress in cancer research and to focus attention on the essential role of basic research in finding the answers to the mysteries of cancer. The Prize is also intended to stimulate continued investment in the pioneering research in the hope of producing scientific breakthroughs and lead to a deeper understanding of the scientific concepts behind the genetics and molecular makeup of cancer.\n\nSource: NFCR\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8522163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8522163", "title": "Terminology within polyamory", "text": "Terminology within polyamory\n\nTerminology within polyamory looks at the evolution and meaning of the word \"polyamory\" itself, as well as alternate definitions and concepts which closely relate to it.\n\nThe word \"polyamory\" has been applied to the practice or lifestyle of being open to the possibility of people having more than one loving, intimate relationship at a time, with full knowledge and consent by all partners involved. The term is sometimes socially abbreviated to poly, especially as a form of self-description, and also at times described as consensual non-monogamy.\n\n\"Polyamory\" is a hybrid word: \"poly\" is Greek for \"many\" (or \"multiple\") and \"amor\" is Latin for \"love\". The article titled \"A Bouquet of Lovers\" written by Morning Glory Zell-Ravenheart and first published in \"Green Egg Magazine\" (Spring 1990), a publication founded by her husband Oberon Zell-Ravenheart, is widely cited as the original source of the word. The article did not use the word \"polyamory\" but it introduced \"poly-amorous\". Jennifer L. Wesp created the Usenet newsgroup alt.polyamory in May 1992, and the Oxford English Dictionary cites the proposal to create that group as the first verified appearance of the word. The term polyfidelity, now considered a subset of polyamory, was coined in the 1970s by members of the Kerista commune. Naturally, such relationships existed long before the words for them came into use.\n\nThe word \"polyamory\" does not actually appear in \"A Bouquet of Lovers\", referenced above. The article uses \"polyamorous\", but its original version introduced the term in hyphenated form, \"poly-amorous\". The article consistently uses \"polygamy\" as the counterpart to \"monogamy\". There are no verifiable sources showing the word \"polyamory\" in common use until after \"alt.polyamory\" was created.\n\n\"alt.polyamory\" participants collaborated on a FAQ (frequently asked questions) post that was updated periodically, and included the group's definition of \"polyamory\". The latest version of the FAQ on polyamory.org, dated 1997, has this definition:\n\nIn 1999, Morning Glory Zell-Ravenheart was asked by the editor of the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" to provide a definition of the term (which the dictionary had not previously recognised). Her definition was:\n\n\"Webster's New Millennium Dictionary of English\" defines polyamory as:\n\"Merriam Webster's Dictionary\" gives the definition as:\n\nNo single written definition of \"polyamory\" has universal acceptance. It is generally agreed that polyamory involves multiple consensual, loving relationships (or openness to such), but beyond that the term is as ambiguous as the word \"love\" itself. Some suggest that one must currently be participating in multiple relationships to be considered polyamorous. Others would consider their relational outlook polyamorous, regardless of whether they happen to be single or in an exclusive relationship at the time.\n\nA relationship is more likely to be called \"polyamorous\" if at least one relationship is long-term, involves some sort of commitment (e.g. a formal ceremony), and involves shared living arrangements and/or finances, but none of these criteria are necessary or definitive.\n\nFor instance, somebody who has multiple sexual partners might form strong loving friendships with them, without feeling romantic love for them. Whether such a person identifies as \"polyamorous\", or as a swinger, or uses some other term, often depends more on their attitude towards other \"polyamorists\", \"swingers\", etc., than on the exact nature of their relationships. Different terms emphasise different aspects of the interaction, but \"swinging\" and \"polyamory\" are both broad in what they can refer to. This allows for a certain degree of overlap.\n\nSimilarly, an open relationship in which all participants are long-term friends might be considered \"polyamorous\" under broader usages of the word but excluded from some of the stricter usages (see further discussion below). There is enough overlap between these concepts that the expression \"open relationship\" is also sometimes used as a catch-all substitute when speaking to people who may not be familiar with the term \"polyamory\". However, some have objected to this shorthand, on the basis that multiple partners does not necessarily imply that they also have open relationships.\n\nThe terms \"primary\" (or \"primary relationship\") and \"secondary\" (or \"secondary relationship\") are commonly used to briefly convey rough distinctions among relationships in a person's life. Most often the terms are used to generally describe the type or \"category\" of a relationship, regarding involvement, commitment, or priority; thus it is not uncommon to discuss having multiple primary relationships, or having only secondary relationships with no primary. The exact distinctions between these categories of relationship vary depending on the speaker, but \"primary\" usually refers to a \"marriage-like\" relationship in terms of living arrangements, finances, commitment or child-rearing (legal marriage or domestic partnership may or may not be involved); while \"secondary\" usually implies less of these aspects, and \"tertiary\" (which is much less used) would be still less involved or more casual. \n\nA somewhat less common usage is to enumerate relationships by current sequential importance: the most important single relationship would be primary, the next most important would be secondary, the third would be tertiary, etc. - whether deeply committed or not. Many polyamorous people however object to this sort of sequential \"ranking\".\n\nThe terms \"primary\" and \"secondary\" may refer to the relationship or by extension to a partner in such a relationship.\n\nThus a woman with a husband and another partner might refer to the husband as her \"primary\" and her other partner as \"secondary\" - or might consider both to be primary, depending on the relationships and her usage of the terms. (Of course, this is in addition to any other terms a person might use, such as \"husband\", \"lover\", \"casual date\", \"friend\", \"other half\", and so on.) Some polyamorous individuals avoid using \"primary\" / \"secondary\" descriptions, believing that all partners should be considered equally important [Referred to as nonhierarchical Polyamory.]\n\nAnother model, sometimes referred to as \"intimate network\", may include relationships of varying significance to the people involved. People in intimate networks may or may not explicitly label relationships primary or secondary, and hierarchies may be fluid and vague or nonexistent.\n\nA relationship among three people is often called a \"triad\" or threesome; among four people a \"quad\" or foursome. Sometimes all groupings of three or more are called \"moresomes\".\n\nSignificant relationships involving more than two people inherently contain multiple pairs of people who may have more or less significant individual relationships with each other. Some pairs may have stronger mutual bonds than others. In triads or threesomes, the relationships may be characterized as forming a triangle or a \"V\". In a triangle, all three partners are directly connected and bonded to each other with roughly comparable strength. In a \"V\", two of the three possible pairs have substantially stronger bonds than the third pair. The emotional and sexual aspects of relationship may differ in this regard, so it's possible for example to describe a relationship as a triangle emotionally but a V sexually. The connecting member of a V relationship is sometimes referred to as a \"hinge\" or \"pivot\", and the partners thereby indirectly connected may be referred to as the \"arms\".\n\nThere are also by analogy other \"letter\" descriptions such as \"N\" or \"U\" foursome, or \"W\" fivesome geometries (\"Z\" and \"M\" are equivalents to \"N\" and \"W\" in this regard), each attempting to symbolize the more significant bonds within a group by analogy to the shape of the letter; of course, not all combinations have easy letter shape analogs.\n\nAn open relationship generally denotes a relationship (usually between two people, but sometimes among larger groups) in which participants may have sexual involvement with other people, with the consent of their partner(s). Where a couple making this agreement are married, it is an open marriage. \"Open relationship\" and \"polyamorous\" are overlapping rather than identical terms; people may use either or both terms in describing their relationship. Broadly, \"open\" usually refers to the sexual aspect of a non-closed relationship, whereas polyamory involves the extension of a relationship by allowing bonds to form (which may be sexual or otherwise) as additional long term relationships:\n\n\nSee also forms of nonmonogamy for other types of nonmonogamous relationship (not all of them polyamorous).\n\nCompersion is a positive feeling which a person may sometimes experience when their partner is happily involved with somebody else, in contrast to jealousy.\n\nNew relationship energy or NRE, is the surge of emotional and sexual openness and excitement usually experienced in relatively new relationships, with recognition of the contrast with the more settled emotional and erotic connections experienced later in the same relationship, or in other ongoing relationships at the same time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35788446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35788446", "title": "Tin Can Cathedral", "text": "Tin Can Cathedral\n\nThe Tin Can Cathedral () was the first independent Ukrainian church in North America. It was the heart of the Seraphimite Church. Founded in Winnipeg, it had no affiliation with any church in Europe.\nUkrainian immigrants began arriving in Canada in 1891 mainly from the Austro-Hungarian provinces, the regions of Bukovyna and Galicia. The new arrivals from Bukovyna were Eastern Orthodox, those from Galicia Eastern Catholic. In either case it was the Byzantine Rite with which they were familiar. By 1903 the Ukrainian immigrant population in Western Canada had become large enough to attract the attention of religious leaders, politicians, and educationalists.\n\nThe central character in the Ukrainian community in Winnipeg at the time was Cyril Genik (1857–1925). He came from Galicia, having graduated from the Ukrainian Academic Gymnasium in Lviv and studied law briefly at the University of Chernivtsi. Genik was a friend of Ivan Franko, the Ukrainian author of \"Лис Микита\" (\"Fox Mykyta\") who was nominated for the Nobel Prize In Literature. Franko's biting satire on the Western Ukrainian clergy of his day and his socialist leanings were probably shared by Genik who happened to be best man at the author's wedding. Freeing the populace of the clergy, along with land reform, was a way to free the peasantry from the yoke of absentee-landlords who maintained control of the land with the collusion of the hierarchy of the church. Upon his arrival in Canada, Genik became the first Ukrainian to be employed by the Canadian government, and worked as an immigration agent taking new settlers out to their homesteads. Genik's cousin Ivan Bodrug (1874–1952) and Bodrug's friend Ivan Negrich (1875–1946) also came from the village of Bereziv in the county of Kolomyia and were qualified as primary school teachers in Galicia. These three men constituted the nucleus of the intelligentsia in the Ukrainian community, and were known as the \"Березівська Трійця\" ( \"Berezivs'ka Triitsya\") (the \"Bereziv Triumvirate\"). Genik, the oldest, was the only one of the three already married. His wife Pauline (\"née\" Tsurkowsky) was the daughter of a priest, an educated woman, and they had three sons and three daughters.\n\nThe other principal character was Bishop Seraphim, whose real name was Stefan Ustvolsky. Ustvolsky ended by being defrocked by the Russian Holy Synod in the Imperial capital of Saint Petersburg. But his story begins when, for personal reasons, he traveled to Mount Athos where he was consecrated a Bishop by the Holy Anphim, who claimed to be a bishop. The Holy Anphim ordained Ustvolsky to spite the Czar, as at this time there was a struggle taking place between the Holy Synod and the Czar for control of the Russian Orthodox Church (or at least this was the story he brought with him to the New World). Having been consecrated a bishop, Seraphim traveled to North America, briefly staying with Ukrainian priests in Philadelphia. By the time he arrived in Winnipeg, he had no allegiances to the Russian Orthodox Church or anyone else. The Ukrainians on the prairies accepted him as a traveling holy man, a tradition which goes back to the very beginnings of Christianity.\nAnother person who participated in the events which culminated in the creation of the Tin Can Cathedral was Seraphim's assistant Makarii Marchenko. Marchenko acted as a deacon or cantor, helping Seraphim with the church services which he knew well. He arrived with Seraphim from the United States. Archbishop Langevin, who was located in St. Boniface, was the head of the Roman Catholic diocese in Western Canada, in direct contact with Pope Pius X in Rome. He believed that his priests were more than adequate for the needs of the Ukrainian population. Other players included Dr. William Patrick, head of Manitoba College, a Presbyterian college in Winnipeg; the Liberal Party of Manitoba; and Russian Orthodox missionaries with Bishop Tikhon as the Head of the Russian Orthodox Mission in North America.\n\nIn 1902, a member of the Manitoba legislature, Joseph Bernier, introduced a bill \"conveying properties of the Greek Ruthenian (Ukrainians were also known as Ruthenians) Church in Communion with Rome into the control of corporations under control of the Church of Rome.\" Archbishop Langevin declared \"the Ruthenians must prove themselves Catholics by turning property over to the church, and not like Protestants …to an individual or committee of laymen, independent of the priest or bishop.\" The size of the Ukrainian population on the prairies had also attracted the interest of Russian Orthodox Missionaries. At this time the Russian Orthodox Church was spending $100,000 a year for missionary work in North America. As well, the Presbyterian Church had become interested and invited young men from the Ukrainian community to attend Manitoba College (today the University of Winnipeg) where special classes were established for young Ukrainians who wished to become school teachers (and later Independent Greek Church ministers). Fluent in the German language, Dr. King, the Principal of the College, interviewed the candidates Bodrug and Negrich in German. Genik translated their scholastic documents in writing from Polish into English. They became the first Ukrainian students of a university in North America – Manitoba College at this time was part of the University of Manitoba.\n\nGenik, Bodrug, and Negrich moved quickly to try to secure their community. They brought in Seraphim. He arrived in Winnipeg in April 1903 to set up a Church that was independent of any churches in Europe, and would have no loyalty to any of the religious interest groups vying for the souls of the new Ukrainian immigrants on the prairies. To their satisfaction, Seraphim set up an Orthodox Russian Church (not Russian Orthodox) of which he declared himself the head, and to placate the Ukrainians it was also called the Seraphimite Church. He provided the parishioners with an Eastern Rite with which the immigrants were familiar, began to ordain cantors and deacons, and \"…on 13th December 1903, a small frame building on the east side of McGregor Street between Manitoba and Pritchard Avenues, that may have been called the Holy Ghost church, was officially blessed by Seraphim and opened for worship.\" \"In November 1904 he started building his notorious 'tin can cathedral' at the corner of King Street and Stella Avenue,…\" made of scrap metal and wood. Charismatic, Seraphim \"…ordained some 50 priests and numerous deacons, many semi-illiterate, who carried out priestly duties throughout the [Ukrainian] settlements, preaching independent Orthodoxy and trustee ownership of church property. In two years this church claimed nearly 60,000 adherents…\"\n\n\"Due to various indiscretions and problems with alcohol\" he lost the trust of the intelligentsia who had invited him to Winnipeg, and a coup took place in which they moved to get rid of him while not losing his congregation. Seraphim went to the Russian capital city of Saint Petersburg to try to get recognition and further funding from the Russian Holy Synod for the thriving Seraphimite Church. In his absence Ivan Bodrug and Ivan Negrich, already students of theology at Manitoba College, as well as priests in the Seraphimite Church, were able to obtain guarantees of Presbyterian funding for Seraphim's Church on the grounds that it would be shifted onto a Presbyterian model over the course of time. \"In the late autumn of 1904, Seraphim returned from Russia, but brought no \"posobiye\" with him.\" Upon his return, he discovered the betrayal and promptly excommunicated all the priests involved in this treachery. He published pictures of them in the local newspapers with their names printed across their chests, as if they were criminals. His revenge turned out to be short-lived when he received word that he had been excommunicated himself by the Russian Holy Synod: \"…when the Holy Synod excommunicated Seraphim and all his priests, he left in 1908 never to return.\"\n\nIn the aftermath of this social and spiritual brushfire that swept the prairie, a Ukrainian Canadian community arose.\n\nIvan Bodrug, one of the mutineers in the Seraphimite Church became the head of the new Independent Church, and was quite a charismatic priest in his own right, preaching an evangelical Christianity because of the Presbyterian influence. He lived right into the 1950s. The Independent Church buildings were located on the corner of Pritchard Avenue and McGregor Street, and though the first has since been demolished – the one Seraphim used for his first Church – the second building built with Presbyterian funding still stands there today across from the Labour Temple in Winnipeg's North End.\n\nArchbishop Langevin increased his efforts to try to assimilate the Winnipeg Ukrainian community into the Roman Catholic fold. He set up the Basilian Church of St. Nicholas and brought in Belgian priests, Father Achille Delaere and others, who read the Liturgy in Old Church Slavonic, dressed according to Greek ritual, and delivered sermons in Polish. The Basilian Church of St. Nicholas was across the street from the Apostolic Exarchate of Canada's Cathedral of St. Vladimir and Olga on McGregor Street in the North End of the city. Such competition provided greater opportunity for Ukrainian Canadian children to learn to speak the Ukrainian language.\n\nThe Liberal Party, aware that the Ukrainians were no longer allied with Archbishop Langevin and the Roman Catholics who happened to be aligned with the Conservative Party, stepped forward and funded the very first Ukrainian language newspaper in Canada, \"Kanadiskyi Farmer\" (The Canadian Farmer), of which the first editor was none other than Ivan Negrich.\n\nSeraphim disappeared by 1908, but there are accounts of him in \"Ukrainskyi Holos\" (the Ukrainian Voice newspaper, still being published today in Winnipeg) selling Bibles to workers building railroads in British Columbia as late as 1913. In other versions of history, he returned to Russia.\n\nCyril Genik moved with his eldest daughter and one of his sons to the United States, to North Dakota for a time, then returned and died in 1925.\n\nMakarii Marchenko, upon Seraphim's departure, declared himself not only the new Bishop of the Seraphimite Church, but also Arch-Patriarch, Arch-Pope, Arch-Hetman, and Arch-Prince. Not to take any chances, or show any favouritism, for good measure he ex-communicated the Pope and the Russian Holy Synod. There are records of him traveling the rural areas and ministering to the Ukrainians who were very much in want of their Eastern rite as late as the 1930s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29150342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29150342", "title": "Union des producteurs agricoles", "text": "Union des producteurs agricoles\n\nThe Union des producteurs agricoles (UPA) is an agricultural trade union representing producers in the Canadian province of Quebec. Originally a Catholic union called the \"Union catholique des cultivateurs\" (UCC), it shed its denominational character as a result of the Quiet Revolution and has existed in its current form since 1972.\n\nRural electrification was one of the union's foremost goals in its early years (it is estimated that only ten per cent of Quebec farms had electricity in 1930). It also fought for agricultural credit and collective contracts.\n\nSince 1972, the UPA has been accredited as the only official farmer's union in Quebec. A 2008 report to the Quebec cabinet recommended changing this system and offering producers a free affiliation vote every five years. UPA president Christian Lacasse rejected this proposal, saying that Quebec does not have enough farmers for several different organizations. He also noted that ninety-four per cent of Quebec farmers belong to the organization.\n\nThe UPA and the Ontario Federation of Agriculture both supported the Quebec-Ontario Trade and Cooperation Agreement of 2009.\n\nAs of 2010, the union represents forty-three thousand agricultural producers in Quebec.\n\nA 2015 \"Maclean's\" article, \"Why the dairy lobby is so powerful\", described an incident during the September 28, 2015 federal leaders Munk Debate on foreign affairs, then-NDP Leader Tom Mulcair asked Stephen Harper if they could assure the Union des producteurs agricoles du Québec (UPA) President Marcel Groleau, reached out to the New Democrats, Liberals and Bloc Québécois, of his full support for supply management. Harper immediately complied.\n\nIn his chapter on supply management in his on-line political memoir, Maxime Bernier groups together supporters of supply-managed sectors under a combined dairy lobby. Bernier describes the UPA as an \"extension\" of Québec's Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food. Bernier wrote that the combined dairy lobby funds millions of dollars in university graduate programs and research on \"collective marketing of agricultural products\" across the country in support of SM policies. \n\n"}
{"id": "16301990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16301990", "title": "User (computing)", "text": "User (computing)\n\nA user is a person who utilizes a computer or network service. Users of computer systems and software products generally lack the technical expertise required to fully understand how they work. Power users use advanced features of programs, though they are not necessarily capable of computer programming and system administration.\n\nA user often has a user account and is identified to the system by a username (or user name). Other terms for username include login name, screenname (or screen name), nickname (or nick) and handle, which is derived from the identical Citizen's Band radio term.\n\nSome software products provide services to other systems and have no direct end users.\n\nEnd users are the ultimate human users (also referred to as operators) of a software product. The term is used to abstract and distinguish those who only use the software from the developers of the system, who enhance the software for end users. In user-centered design, it also distinguishes the software operator from the client who pays for its development and other stakeholders who may not directly use the software, but help establish its requirements. This abstraction is primarily useful in designing the user interface, and refers to a relevant subset of characteristics that most expected users would have in common.\n\nIn user-centered design, personas are created to represent the types of users. It is sometimes specified for each persona which types of user interfaces it is comfortable with (due to previous experience or the interface's inherent simplicity), and what technical expertise and degree of knowledge it has in specific fields or disciplines. When few constraints are imposed on the end-user category, especially when designing programs for use by the general public, it is common practice to expect minimal technical expertise or previous training in end users. \n\nThe end-user development discipline blurs the typical distinction between users and developers. It designates activities or techniques in which people who are not professional developers create automated behavior and complex data objects without significant knowledge of a programming language.\n\nSystems whose actor is another system or a software agent have no direct end users.\n\nA user's account allows a user to authenticate to a system and potentially to receive authorization to access resources provided by or connected to that system; however, authentication does not imply authorization. To log into an account, a user is typically required to authenticate oneself with a password or other credentials for the purposes of accounting, security, logging, and resource management.\n\nOnce the user has logged on, the operating system will often use an identifier such as an integer to refer to them, rather than their username, through a process known as identity correlation. In Unix systems, the username is correlated with a user identifier or \"user id\".\n\nComputer systems operate in one of two types based on what kind of users they have:\n\nEach user account on a multi-user system typically has a home directory, in which to store files pertaining exclusively to that user's activities, which is protected from access by other users (though a system administrator may have access). User accounts often contain a public user profile, which contains basic information provided by the account's owner. The files stored in the home directory (and all other directories in the system) have file system permissions which are inspected by the operating system to determine which users are granted access to read or execute a file, or to store a new file in that directory.\n\nWhile systems expect most user accounts to be used by only a single person, many systems have a special account intended to allow anyone to use the system, such as the username \"anonymous\" for anonymous FTP and the username \"guest\" for a guest account.\n\nVarious computer operating-systems and applications expect/enforce different rules for the format.\n\nIn Microsoft Windows environments, for example, note the potential use of:\n\n\nSome usability professionals have expressed their dislike of the term \"user\" and have proposed changing it. Don Norman stated that \"One of the horrible words we use is 'users'. I am on a crusade to get rid of the word 'users'. I would prefer to call them 'people'.\"\n"}
{"id": "483558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483558", "title": "Yakuts", "text": "Yakuts\n\nYakuts (, \"Sakha\") are a Turkic people who mainly inhabit the Sakha Republic (Yakutia) in North East Asia.\n\nThe Yakut language belongs to the Siberian branch of the Turkic languages. Yakuts mainly live in the Republic of Sakha in the Russian Federation, with some extending to the Amur, Magadan, Sakhalin regions, and the Taymyr and Evenk Autonomous Districts.\n\nThe Yakuts engage in animal husbandry focusing on horses and cattle.\n\nThe ancestors of Yakuts were Kurykans who migrated from Yenisey river to Lake Baikal and were subject to a certain Mongolian admixture prior to migration\n\nin the 7th century. The Yakuts originally lived around Olkhon and the region of Lake Baikal. Beginning in the 13th century they migrated to the basins of the Middle Lena, the Aldan and Vilyuy rivers under the pressure of the rising Mongols.\nThe northern Yakuts were largely hunters, fishermen and reindeer herders, while the southern Yakuts raised cattle and horses.\n\nIn the 1620s the Tsardom of Muscovy began to move into their territory and annexed or settled down on it, imposed a fur tax and managed to suppress several Yakut rebellions between 1634 and 1642. The tsarist brutality in collection of the pelt tax (\"yasak\") sparked a rebellion and aggression among the Yakuts and also Tungusic-speaking tribes along the River Lena in 1642. The voivode Peter Golovin, leader of the tsarist forces, responded with a reign of terror: native settlements were torched and hundreds of people were killed. The Yakut population alone is estimated to have fallen by 70 percent between 1642 and 1682 because of the Grand Duchy of Muscovy expeditions.\n\nIn the 18th century the Russians reduced the pressure, gave Yakut chiefs some privileges, granted freedom for all habitats, gave them all their lands, sent Eastern Orthodox missions, and educated the Yakut people regarding agriculture. The discovery of gold and, later, the building of the Trans-Siberian Railway, brought ever-increasing numbers of Russians into the region. By the 1820s almost all the Yakuts had been converted to the Russian Orthodox church, although they retained, and still retain, a number of Shamanist practices. Yakut literature began to rise in the late 19th century. A national revival occurred in the early 20th century.\n\nIn 1922, the new Soviet government named the area the Yakut Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. The last conflict of the Russian Civil War, known as the Yakut Revolt, occurred here when Cornet Mikhail Korobeinikov, a White Russian officer, led an uprising and a last stand against the Red Army.\n\nIn the late 1920s through the late 1930s, Yakut people were systematically persecuted, when Joseph Stalin launched his collectivization campaign. It's possible that hunger and malnutrition during this period resulted in a decline in the Yakut total population from 240,500 in 1926 to 236,700 in 1959. By 1972, the population began to recover.\n\nThe majority of Yakut males belong to Haplogroup N3a (89%).\n\nCurrently, Yakuts form a large plurality of the total population within the vast Sakha Republic. According to the 2010 Russian census, there were a total of 466,492 Yakuts residing in the Sakha Republic during that year, or 49.9% of the total population of the Republic.\n\nAccording to the 2010 census, some 87% of the Yakuts in the Sakha Republic are fluent in the Yakut (or Sakha) language, while 90% are fluent in Russian. The Sakha/Yakut language belongs to the Northern branch of the Siberian group of Turkic languages. It is most closely related to the Dolgan language. Slightly less closely related languages include Tuvan and Shor.\n\nThe cuisine of Sakha prominently features the traditional drink kumis, dairy products of mare and reindeer milk, sliced frozen salted fish stroganina (\"строганина\"), loaf meat dishes (\"oyogos\"), venison, frozen fish, thick pancakes, and \"salamat\" — a millet porridge with butter and horse fat. \"Kuerchekh\" [Куэрчэх] or \"kierchekh\", a popular dessert, is made of mare milk or sour cream with various berries. \"Indigirka\" is a traditional fish salad. This cuisine is only used in Yakutia.\n\n\n\n"}
