{"id": "49957321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49957321", "title": "Aat de Peijper", "text": "Aat de Peijper\n\nAdriaan \"Aat\" de Peijper (died 1998) was a Dutch industrialist and philatelist whose collection of Dutch, Dutch colonial, and British Commonwealth stamps included several world rarities.\n\nUntil 1976 De Peijper was director of a pharmaceutical distribution company in Etten-Leur. De Peijper and his company Centrafarm won a number of court battles concerning their redistribution of medicines within the EU, including some against Sterling Drug / Winthrop that are considered landmark cases. \n\nDe Peijper began collecting stamps from a young age but according to his wife Mrs M.W. de Peijper-Pieksma, it was not until later in life that he was able to afford the more expensive items missing from his collection. He bought many items from the Samos collection, and also items formerly in the Boker, Burrus, Casapry, and Dale-Lichtenstein collections.\n\nHis collection was principally of the stamps of the Netherlands, with a focus on the first issue, the British Commonwealth and Dutch colonies. Among the rarities in the collection was a 1925 Kenya and Uganda £100 (SG105) unused plate number postage stamp (signed A. Diena in the margin), one of four unused copies known in private collections and museums. Another rare item was a 1925 unused Ceylon 1000R (SG323) plate number single with a certificate by Friedl. Both were formerly in the Samos collection. The de Peijper collection was auctioned by De Nederlandsche Postzegelveiling in 2013, with the £100 Kenya and Uganda stamp reckoned to be the most valuable stamp ever to be auctioned in the Netherlands.\n"}
{"id": "7055620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7055620", "title": "Alan R. Graham", "text": "Alan R. Graham\n\nAlan Robert Graham (born June 20, 1942) is a Canadian retired politician in the Province of New Brunswick and he is the father of Shawn Graham, who was Premier of New Brunswick from 2006 to 2010.\n\nAlan Graham, the longest serving consecutive term of anyone in the history of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick is a son of Harrison Michael Graham (1901–1983) and Nellie Harris Ross (1900–1958).\n\nGraham served the longest consecutive term of anyone in the history of the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick, being re-elected in 1970, 1974, 1978, 1982, 1987, 1991 and 1995.\n\nA Liberal, supporter of the government of Louis Robichaud from 1967–1970 and then served in opposition for 17 years until the Liberals returned to government by winning every seat in the 1987 election. Graham served in the cabinets of Frank McKenna and Ray Frenette but resigned his seat in 1998 and in the subsequent Kent County by-election, the community continued to support the Graham family and his son Shawn Graham was elected as MLA in 1998 and would go on to become leader of the Liberals in 2002, and win the 2006 election.\n\nGraham was the Minister of Agriculture from 1987–1991, Minister of Natural Resources and Energy from 1991 to 1998 and served on Cabinet committees of Policy and Priorities, Board of Management, and Budget. From 1997-1998, he was Deputy Premier of New Brunswick. During his political career, Graham served on numerous Legislative Committees. While in opposition, he acted as critic for Agriculture, Natural Resources, Housing, Health, and Alcoholism and Drug Dependency. He was also Liberal Caucus Chairperson and Opposition House Leader. He was first appointed a member of the former Atomic Energy Control Board in 1999, and has since been reappointed a member of the Canadian Nuclear Safety Commission. He has been a Trustee of the Nature Conservancy of Canada, a member of the Board of the Atlantic Salmon Federation and an Honorary President of the Atlantic Canada Woodworking Centre of Excellence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1738982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1738982", "title": "Albert Heilmann", "text": "Albert Heilmann\n\nAlbert Heilmann (6 June 1886 Munich – 20 December 1949 Berlin-Wilmersdorf) was an architect and contractor who worked in Munich and Berlin.\n\nFrom 1909 to 1929 he was junior boss of his father Jakob Heilmann's construction company, Heilmann & Littmann. Later he became chairman of the board of supervisors of this company, after it had been transformed into a corporation.\n\nHe constructed the \"Europahaus\" (House of Europe) in Berlin, in which the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development is currently located, in cooperation with the Berlin building tycoon Heinrich Mendelssohn.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47615547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47615547", "title": "Alberto Benavides de la Quintana", "text": "Alberto Benavides de la Quintana\n\nAlberto Benavides de la Quintana (October 20, 1920 – February 12, 2014), was prominent Peruvian businessman and engineer, famous for founding the \"Buenaventura Mining Company\". After graduating from Universidad Nacional de Ingenieria in Lima, Peru, he went on to become the first Peruvian to graduate from the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, in 1944. He was given the \"Harvard Lifetime Achievement Award\" in 2011, by the Board of Directors of the Harvard Club of Peru.\n"}
{"id": "914208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914208", "title": "Algonquin Hotel", "text": "Algonquin Hotel\n\nThe Algonquin Hotel is an American historic hotel located at 59 West 44th Street in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. The hotel has been designated as a New York City Historic Landmark.\n\nThe 181-room hotel, opened in 1902, was designed by architect Goldwin Starrett. It was originally conceived as a residential hotel but was quickly converted to a traditional lodging establishment. Its first owner-manager, Frank Case (who bought the hotel in 1927), established many of the hotel's traditions. Perhaps its best-known tradition is hosting literary and theatrical notables, most prominently the members of the Algonquin Round Table.\n\nThe Algonquin Hotel was originally designed as an apartment hotel, whose owner planned to rent rooms and suites on year-long leases. When few leases sold, the owner decided to turn it into a hotel which he was originally going to name \"The Puritan\". Frank Case, upon discovering that Algonquian tribes had been the first residents of the area, persuaded the owner to christen it \"The Algonquin\" instead.\n\nCase took over the lease on the hotel in 1907 and bought the property on which the building sat in 1927 for US$1 million. Case remained owner and manager of the hotel until his death in June 1946. In October that year, The Algonquin was purchased by Ben Bodne of Charleston, South Carolina for just over US$1 million. Bodne undertook an extensive restoration and renovation effort. Bodne sold the hotel in 1987 to a group of Japanese investors and the Algonquin changed hands a number of times before ending up with Miller Global Properties in 2002. Following a two-year, US$3 million renovation, the hotel was sold again in 2005 to HEI Hospitality.\n\nHEI has affiliated it with Marriott International where it is part of Marriott’s Autograph Collection brand.\n\nIn June 1919 the hotel became the site of the daily meetings of the Algonquin Round Table, a group of journalists, authors, publicists and actors who gathered to exchange bon mots over lunch in the main dining room. The group met almost daily for the better part of ten years. Some of the core members of the \"Vicious Circle\" included Franklin P. Adams, Robert Benchley, Heywood Broun, Marc Connelly, Jane Grant, Ruth Hale, George S. Kaufman, Harpo Marx, Neysa McMein, Dorothy Parker, Harold Ross, Robert E. Sherwood and Alexander Woollcott.\n\nAt the end of World War I, \"Vanity Fair\" writers and Algonquin regulars Dorothy Parker, Robert Benchley, and Robert E. Sherwood started meeting for lunch at The Algonquin. Alexander Woollcott, acerbic critic and war correspondent, received a warm welcome from literary friends in 1919. They gathered in the Rose Room that afternoon; one person enjoyed the event enough to request that it become a daily event. That same request prompted a daily exchange of ideas and opinions shared between highly esteemed literary figures. George S. Kaufman, Heywood Broun, and Edna Ferber were also a part of this August assembly; these individuals influenced writers like F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway. They founded \"The New Yorker\" magazine; all hotel guests receive free copies to this day.\n\nFrank Case, owner of the hotel, ensured a daily luncheon for the talented group of young writers by treating them to free celery and popovers; more importantly, they were provided with their own table and waiter. Edna Ferber, Franklin P. Adams, George S. Kaufman, Heywood Broun, and Marc Connelly eventually joined the group, expanding its membership. All members were affiliated with the Algonquin Round Table, although they referred to themselves as the Vicious Circle.\n\nVisitors often request to dine at the actual “round table” where members originally met for decades.\n\nThe Oak Room at the Algonquin was long one of New York City's premier cabaret nightclubs. Opened in 1939 (as the Oak Room Supper Club), it was soon closed on account of World War II, reopened as a regular venue in 1980, and closed for good in 2012. (Before 1939, it had been called the Pergola Room and was the first meeting place of what became the Algonquin Round Table).\n\nLegendary European chanteuse Greta Keller was the room's first star. When Donald Smith reopened the Oak Room in 1980, the first regular and star was singer-pianist Steve Ross. Other performers who have appeared at the Oak Room include Julie Wilson, Mary Cleere Haran, Karen Akers, KT Sullivan, Barbara Carroll, Sandy Stewart, Bill Charlap, Diana Krall,\n\nWith its oak panels and other decor recalling an earlier time, the heyday of cabaret, the Oak Room was small, intimate, and expensive (at least $100 per person, more if one had dinner, except for matinees), and was not a big moneymaker for the Algonquin. Part of the space occupied by the former Oak Room was used to enlarge the Blue Bar, the rest was converted into a private breakfast room for Marriott Reward Elite customers.\n\nThe hotel has a tradition of keeping a cat that has the run of the hotel. The practice dates to the 1930s, when Frank Case took in a stray male cat that was initially named \"Rusty.\" Hotel lore says actor John Barrymore suggested the cat needed a more \"dignified\" name, so the cat was renamed \"Hamlet.\" Nowadays, whenever the hotel has a male cat, he's named Hamlet; but if the hotel has a female cat, she's named \"Matilda.\" The last Algonquin cat, a Matilda, to gain notice was a Ragdoll that was named 2006 cat of the year at the Westchester (New York) Cat Show. Visitors could spot Matilda on her personal chaise lounge in the lobby; she could also be found in her favorite places: behind the computer on the front desk, or lounging on a baggage cart. The doormen fed her and the general manager's executive assistant answered Matilda's e-mail. During 2011, Matilda was temporarily confined to an upper floor or to the limits of a leash tethered to the check-in desk, due to a directive from the city Department of Health. From late 2011, Matilda was confined to the non-food areas of the lobby by an electronic pet fence.\n\nMatilda III died in October, 2017. Since then, Hamlet VIII has taken up shelter at the hotel having been rescued from a cat colony on Long Island.\n\nSince the 1930s the hotel holds an annual feline fashion show every summer, which in 2018 was a fundraiser for the Mayor's Alliance for NYC's Animals.\n\nAlthough the Algonquin was \"dry\" even before Prohibition (Case closed the hotel bar in 1917 and had harsh words for those who ran speakeasies), the hotel does have an eponymous cocktail, composed of rye whiskey, Noilly Prat and pineapple juice. More recently, a newer drink has hit the Algonquin's menu, the $10,000 Martini or \"Martini on the Rock,\" consisting of a martini of the buyer's choice with a single piece of \"ice,\" a diamond, at the bottom of the glass. The martini was developed to mark completion of a major 29-day renovation that closed the hotel for the first time since its opening, which was overseen by Anthony Melchiorri, of Hotel Impossible. Hoy Wong was a notable bartender at the hotel and was the oldest person to hold such a position in the state, serving at the Algonquin for 30 years until retiring in 2009, well past the age of 90.\n\nIn keeping with Frank Case's long-standing tradition of sending popovers and celery to the more impoverished members of the Round Table, the Algonquin offers lunch discounts to struggling writers. Formerly, writers on tour could stay one night at the hotel free in exchange for an autographed copy of their book, although the practice has been amended to include a discount on standard room rates.\n\nThe Algonquin Round Table, as well as the number of other literary and theatrical greats who lodged there, helped earn the hotel its status as a New York City Historic Landmark. The hotel was so designated in 1987. In 1996 the hotel was designated a National Literary Landmark by the Friends of Libraries USA. The organization's bronze plaque is attached to the front of the hotel.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1022443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022443", "title": "Andy Hopper", "text": "Andy Hopper\n\nAndrew Hopper (born 1953) is Treasurer and Vice-President of the Royal Society, Professor of Computer Technology, former Head of the University of Cambridge Department of Computer Science and Technology, an Honorary Fellow of Trinity Hall, Cambridge and Corpus Christi College, Cambridge and serial entrepreneur. \n\nHopper was educated at Quintin Kynaston School in London after which he went to study for a Bachelor of Science degree at Swansea University before going to the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory and Trinity Hall, Cambridge in 1974 for postgraduate work. Hopper was awarded his PhD in 1978 for research into Local area computer communications networks supervised by David Wheeler.\n\nHopper's PhD, completed in 1977 was in the field of communications networks, and he worked with Maurice Wilkes on the creation of the Cambridge Ring and its successors.\n\nHopper's research interests include computer networks, multimedia systems, Virtual Network Computing and sentient computing. His most cited paper describes the indoor location system called the Active Badge. He has contributed to a discussion of the privacy challenges relating to surveillance.\n\nAfter more than 20 years at Cambridge University Computer Laboratory, Hopper was elected Chair of Communications Engineering at Cambridge University Engineering Department in 1997. He returned to the Computer Laboratory as Professor of Computer Technology and Head of Department in 2004.\n\nMore recently, Hopper's research under the title \"Computing for the Future of the Planet\" examines the uses of computers for assuring the sustainability of the planet.\n\nHopper has supervised approximately fifty PhD students.\n\nIn 1978, Hopper co-founded Orbis Ltd to develop networking technologies.\n\nIn 1978 Hopper worked with Hermann Hauser and Chris Curry, founders of Acorn Computers Ltd; Orbis became a division of Acorn in 1979 and continued to work with the Cambridge Ring. While at Acorn, Hopper contributed to design some of the chips for the BBC Micro and helped conceive the project which led to the design of the ARM microprocessor. When Acorn was acquired by Olivetti in 1985, Hauser became vice-president for research at Olivetti, in which role he co-founded the Olivetti Research Laboratory in 1986 with Hopper; Hopper became its managing director.\n\nIn 1985, after leaving Acorn, Hopper co-founded Qudos, a company producing CAD software and doing chip prototyping. He remained a director until 1989.\n\nIn 1993, Hopper set up Advanced Telecommunication Modules Ltd with Hermann Hauser. This company went public on the NASDAQ as Virata in 1999. The company was acquired by Conexant Systems on 1 March 2004.\n\nIn 1995, Hopper co-founded Telemedia Systems, now called IPV, and was its chairman until 2003.\n\nIn 1997, Hopper co-founded Adaptive Broadband Ltd (ABL) to further develop the 'Wireless ATM' project started at ORL in the early 90s. ABL was bought by California Microwave, Inc in 1998.\n\nIn January 2000, Hopper co-founded Cambridge Broadband which was to develop broadband fixed wireless equipment; he was non-executive chairman from 2000 – 2005.\n\nIn 2002 Hopper was involved in the founding of Ubisense Ltd to further develop the location technologies and sentient computing concepts that grew out of the ORL Active Badge system. Hopper became a director in 2003 and was chairman between 2006 and 2015 during which the company made its initial public offering (IPO) in June 2011. \n\nIn 2002, Hopper co-founded RealVNC and has served as chairman since the company's inception.\n\nIn 2002, Hopper co-founded Level 5 Networks and was a director until 2008, just after it merged with Solarflare Inc.\n\nFrom 2005 until 2009, Hopper was chairman of Adventiq, a joint venture between Adder and RealVNC, developing a VNC-based system-on-a-chip.\n\nIn 2013 Hopper co-founded TxtEz, a company looking to commoditise B2C communication in Africa.\n\nHopper was an advisor to Hauser's venture capital firm Amadeus Capital Partners from 2001 until 2005.\nHe was also an advisor to the Cambridge Gateway Fund from 2001 until 2006.\n\nHopper is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology (FIET) and was a Trustee from 2003 until 2006, and again between 2009 and 2013. In 2004, Hopper was awarded the Mountbatten Medal of the IET (then IEE). He served as president of the IET between 2012 and 2013.\n\nHopper was elected a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 1996 and awarded their Silver Medal in 2003.\nHe was a member of the Council of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 2007 to 2010. In 2013, he was part of the RealVNC team to receive the MacRobert Award. \n\nIn 1999, Hopper gave the Royal Society's Clifford Paterson Lecture on \"Progress and research in the communications industry\" published under the title \"Sentinent Computing\" and was thus awarded the society's bronze medal for achievement. In May 2006, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. He was a member of the Council of the Royal Society between 2009 and 2011. In 2017 Hopper become Treasurer and Vice-President of the Royal Society and was awarded the Bakerian Lecture and Prize.\n\nIn the 2007 New Year Honours, Hopper was made an CBE for services to the computer industry.\n\nIn 2004, Hopper was awarded the Association for Computing Machinery's SIGMOBILE Outstanding Contribution Award and in 2016 the Test-of-Time Award for the Active Badge paper. \n\nIn July 2005, Hopper was awarded an Honorary Fellowship of Swansea University.\n\nIn 2010 Hopper was awarded an Honorary Degree from Queen's University Belfast.\n\nIn 2011 Hopper was elected as member of the Council and Trustee of the University of Cambridge and a member of the Finance Committee.\n\nHopper serves on several academic advisory boards. In 2005, he was appointed to the Advisory Board of the Institute of Electronics Communications and Information Technology at Queen's University Belfast. In 2008 he joined the Advisory Board of the Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford. In 2011 he was appointed a member of the Advisory Board of the School of Computer and Communication Sciences at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne.\n\nHopper was Chairman of the Emerging Technologies and Industries Steering Group of the UK Technology Strategy Board and was a member of the Technical Advisory Council for BP.\n\nHopper married Alison Gail Smith in 1988 Professor of Plant Biochemistry at the University of Cambridge. They have two children, William and Merrill. He is a qualified pilot with over 6,000 hours logged, including a round the world flight, and his house near Cambridge has an airstrip from which he flies his six-seater Cessna light aircraft.\n"}
{"id": "4398024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4398024", "title": "Atiku Abubakar", "text": "Atiku Abubakar\n\nAtiku Abubakar GCON (born 25 November 1946) is a Nigerian politician and business tycoon. He was vice-president of Nigeria 1999-2007 under President Olusegun Obasanjo representing the People's Democratic Party (PDP).\n\nAbubakar worked in the Nigeria Customs Service for twenty years, rising to become the Deputy Director, as the second highest position in the Service was then known. He retired in April 1989 and took up full-time business and politics. He ran for the office of governor in the Gongola State (now Adamawa and Taraba States) in 1991, and for the Presidency in 1993, placing third after MKO Abiola and Babagana Kingibe in the Social Democratic Party (SDP) primaries.\n\nIn 1998 he was elected Governor of Adamawa State. While still Governor-Elect he was selected by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate Olusegun Obasanjo as his running mate. The duo went on to win elections in February 1999, and Abubakar was sworn-in as Nigeria's second democratically elected vice president on 29 May 1999.\nAbubakar's second term as Vice President was marked by a stormy relationship with President Obasanjo. His bid to succeed Obasanjo did not receive the latter's support, and it took a judgment of the Supreme Court to allow Abubakar contest after he was initially disqualified by the Independent National Electoral Commission on the grounds that he had been indicted for financial misconduct by an investigating panel set up at Obasanjo's behest. The Supreme Court ordered the electoral commission to restore Abubakar's name onto the presidential ballot. Abubakar ran on the platform of the Action Congress, having quit the PDP on account of his issues with President Obasanjo. Abubakar lost the election, placing third after Umaru Yar'Adua and Muhammadu Buhari of the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP).\n\nAbubakar is a co-founder of Intels, an oil servicing business with extensive operations in Nigeria and abroad. He is also the founder of Adama Beverages Limited, and the American University of Nigeria (AUN), both in Yola, Adamawa.\n\nAtiku Abubakar was born on November 25, 1946 to a Fulani trader and farmer Garba Abubakar, and his second wife, Aisha Kande, in Jada village of Adamawa State. Atiku Abubakar became the only child of his parents when his only sister died at infancy. Atiku’s father and mother divorced before his father died in 1957 and his mother remarried. Eventually, his mother died in 1984 of heart attack. Atiku Abubakar could not start school when he ought to because his father was opposed to him obtaining western education. When his not going to school was noticed, his father was arrested and jailed until he paid a fine. Consequently, Atiku Abubakar got registered into Jada Primary School at the age of eight. After his primary school, Atiku was admitted into Adamawa Provincial Secondary School Yola in the year 1960. He later finished his secondary school in 1965 after he made grade three in the West African School Certificate Examination. Atiku Abubakar then proceeded to Nigerian Police College, Kaduna. He left the college for a position as tax officer in the Regional Ministry of Finance. Later he got admission to study at the School of Hygiene Kano in 1966. In 1967, he graduated with a Diploma. That same year, Atiku Abubakar was admitted for a Law Diploma at Ahmadu Bello University on a scholarship. He graduated in 1969 and got employed by Nigeria Customs Service that same year.\n\nLike many of his generation, Abubakar's father was opposed to the idea of Western education, and tried to keep Abubakar out of the traditional school system. When the government discovered that Abubakar was not attending mandatory schooling, his father spent a few days in jail until Aisha Kande's mother paid the fine\nAt the age of eight Abubakar enrolled in the Jada Primary School. In 1960, he was admitted to Adamawa Provincial Secondary School in Yola where he did well in English Language and Literature, struggled with Physics and Chemistry and Mathematics. He graduated with a Grade Three WASSCE/GCE Certificate in 1965.\n\nFollowing secondary school, Abubakar studied a short while at the Nigeria Police College in Kaduna . He left the College when he was unable to present an O-Level Mathematics result.He worked briefly as a Tax Officer in the regional Ministry of Finance, from where he gained admission to the school of Hygiene in Kano in 1966.\nHe graduated with a Diploma in 1967, having served as Interim Student Union President at the school. In 1967 he enrolled for a Law Diploma at the Ahmadu Bello University Institute of Administration, on a scholarship from regional government. After graduation in 1969, during the Nigerian Civil War, he was employed by the Nigeria Customs Service.\n\nAbubakar has four wives and is the father of 28 children.\n\nWhile at Idi-Iroko, Abubakar met nineteen-year-old Titilayo Albert, who he secretly married in December 1971, in Lagos, because her family was initially opposed to the union. On 26 October 1972, Titilayo delivered a baby girl they named Fatima. She later gave birth to Adamu, Halima and Aminu.\n\nIn January 1979 he married Ladi Yakubu as his second wife. \"I wanted to expand the Abubakar family. I felt extremely lonely as a child. I had no brother and no sister. I did not want my children to be as lonely as I was. This is why I married more than one wife. My wives are my sisters, my friends, and my advisers and they complement one another,\" Abubakar has said. He has six children with Ladi: Abba, Atiku, Zainab, Ummi-Hauwa, Maryam and Rukaiyatu.\n\nIn 1983 he married his third wife, Princess Rukaiyatu, daughter of the late Lamido of Adamawa, Aliyu Musdafa. She gave birth to Aisha, Hadiza, Aliyu (named after her late father), Asmau, Mustafa, Laila and Abdulsalam. His fourth wife, Fatima Shettima, followed in 1986. Fatima gave birth to her first child Amina (Meena), Mohammed and two sets of twins Ahmed and Shehu, Zainab and Aisha then her last daughter Hafsat.\n\nAbubakar later divorced Ladi, allowing him to marry, as his fourth wife (the maximum permitted him as a Muslim), Jennifer.\n\nAbubakar started out in the real estate business during his early days as a Customs Officer. In 1974 he applied for and received a 31,000 naira loan to build his first house in Yola, which he put up for rent. From proceeds of the rent he purchased another plot, and built a second house. He continued this way, building a sizeable portfolio of property in Yola.\n\nIn 1981 he moved into agriculture, acquiring 2,500 hectares of land near Yola to start a maize and cotton farm. The business fell on hard times and closed in 1986. \"My first foray into agriculture, in the 1980s, ended in failure,\" he wrote in an April 2014 blog. He then ventured into trading, buying and selling truckloads of rice, flour and sugar.\n\nAbubakar's most important business move came while he was a Customs Officer at the Apapa Ports. Gabrielle Volpi, an Italian businessman in Nigeria, invited him to set up Nigeria Container Services (NICOTES), a logistics company operating within the Ports. NICOTES would go on to provide immense wealth to Abubakar. Conflict of interest accusations have since trailed him on account of his involvement in business while a civil servant, who exercised supervisory authority.\n\nOn his part, Abubakar has defended the decision, saying his involvement was limited to the ownership of shares (which government rules permitted), and that he was not involved in the day-to-day running of the business. NICOTES would later be rebranded INTELS, and go on to feature prominently in accusations of money laundering levelled against Abubakar by the U.S. government during his Vice Presidency.\n\nAbubakar's business empire also includes a beverage manufacturing plant in Yola, as well as an animal feed factory.\n\nAbubakar's first foray into politics was in the early 1980s, when he worked behind-the-scenes on the governorship campaign of Bamanga Tukur, who at that time was managing director of the Nigeria Ports Authority. He canvassed for votes on behalf of Tukur, and also donated to the campaign. Towards the end of his Customs career, he met Shehu Musa Yar'Adua, who had been second-in-command of the military government that ruled Nigeria between 1976 and 1979. Abubakar was drawn by Yar'Adua into the political meetings that were now happening regularly in Yar'Adua's Lagos home. In 1989 Abubakar was elected a National Vice-Chairman of the Peoples Front of Nigeria, the political association led by Yar'Adua, to participate in the transition programme initiated by Head of State Ibrahim Babangida. The Peoples Front of Nigeria included politicians such as Umaru Musa Yar'Adua, Babalola Borishade, Bola Tinubu, Abdullahi Aliyu Sumaila, Rabiu Kwankwaso and Sabo Bakin Zuwo.\n\nAbubakar won a seat to represent his constituency at the 1989 Constituent Assembly, set up to decide a new constitution for Nigeria. The People's Front was eventually denied registration by the government (none of the groups that applied was registered), and found a place within the Social Democratic Party, one of the two parties decreed into existence by the regime.\n\nOn 1 September 1990, Abubakar announced his Gongola State gubernatorial bid. A year later, before the elections could hold, Gongola State was broken up into two – Adamawa and Taraba States – by the Federal Government. Abubakar fell into the new Adamawa State. After the contest he won the SDP Primaries in November 1991, but was soon disqualified by government from contesting the elections.\n\nA similar fate – disqualification by the military – would befall Shehu Musa Yar'Adua, Abubakar's friend and political mentor, in his 1992 bid for the presidential primary of the SDP. With no chance of contesting for the presidency, Yar'Adua decided to push Abubakar forward as the focal point of SDP's ambitions. Abubakar came third in the convention primary. But because MKO Abiola, the winner, had won by only about 400 votes a run-off was due. Abubakar stepped down for Abiola, asking his supporters to cast their votes for him, with an unwritten agreement that Abiola would announce Abubakar as his running mate. Abiola won the SDP ticket, and announced Babagana Kingibe, the runner-up, as his running mate.\n\nIn 1998 Abubakar launched a bid for the governorship of Adamawa State on the platform of the People's Democratic Party. He won the December 1998 elections, but before he could be sworn in he was tapped by the PDP's presidential candidate, former Head of State Olusegun Obasanjo, as his vice-presidential candidate. The Obasanjo-Abubakar ticket won the 27 February 1999 presidential election with 62.78 percent of the vote.\n\nAbubakar was sworn in as Vice-President of Nigeria on 29 May 1999. He presided over the National Council on Privatization, overseeing the sale of hundreds of loss-making and poorly managed public enterprises.\n\nIn 1999 he, alongside South African Deputy President Jacob Zuma, launched the South Africa Nigeria Binational Commission.\n\nIn 2006, Abubakar was involved in a bitter public battle with his boss, President Olusegun Obasanjo, ostensibly arising from the latter's bid to amend certain provisions of the constitution to take another shot at the presidency (for the third consecutive time).\n\nIn a November 2013 interview Abubakar is quoted as saying, regarding Obasanjo's alleged attempts to justify his third term bid: \"[He] informed me that 'I left power twenty years ago, I left Mubarak in office, I left Mugabe in office, I left Eyadema in office, I left Umar Bongo, and even Paul Biya and I came back and they are still in power; and I just did eight years and you are asking me to go; why?' And I responded to him by telling him that Nigeria is not Libya, not Egypt, not Cameroun, and not Togo; I said you must leave; even if it means both of us lose out, but you cannot stay.\"\n\nThe debate and acrimony generated by the failed constitutional amendment momentarily caused a rift in the People's Democratic Party. The Nigerian National Assembly eventually voted against any amendments allowing Obasanjo to run for another term.\n\nThe Abubakar-Obasanjo face-off damaged the personal relationship between both men.\n\nOn 25 November 2006 Abubakar announced that he would run for president. On 20 December 2006, he was chosen as the presidential candidate of the Action Congress (AC).\n\nOn 14 March 2007, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) released the final list of 24 aspirants for 21 April presidential election. Abubakar's name was missing from the ballot. INEC issued a statement stating that Abubakar's name was missing because he was on a list of persons indicted for corruption by a panel set up by the government. Abubakar headed to the courts on 16 March to have his disqualification overturned. \n\nThe Supreme Court unanimously ruled on 16 April that INEC had no power to disqualify candidates.\n\nThe ruling allowed Abubakar to contest the election, although there were concerns that it might not be possible to provide ballots with Abubakar's name by 21 April, the date of the election. On 17 April, a spokesman for INEC said that Abubakar would be on the ballot.\n\nAccording to official results, Abubakar took third place, behind PDP candidate Umaru Yar'Adua and ANPP candidate Muhammadu Buhari, with approximately 7% of the vote (2.6 million votes). Abubakar rejected the election results and called for its cancellation, describing it as Nigeria's \"worst election ever.\"\n\nHe stated that he would not attend Umaru Yar'Adua's inauguration on 29 May due to his view that the election was not credible, saying that he did not want to \"dignify such a hollow ritual with my presence.\"\n\nFollowing the 2007 elections, Abubakar returned to the People's Democratic Party. In October 2010 he announced his intention to contest for the Presidency. On 22 November, a Committee of Northern Elders selected him as the Northern Consensus Candidate, over former Military President Ibrahim Babangida, former National Security Adviser Aliyu Gusau and Governor Bukola Saraki of Kwara State.\n\nIn January 2011, Abubakar contested for the Presidential ticket of his party alongside President Jonathan and Sarah Jubril, and lost the primary, garnering 805 votes to President Jonathan's 2736.\n\nOn 30 March 2014, Nigerian media reported that a delegation from the Northern Youth Leaders Forum visited Obasanjo at his home in Abeokuta and pleaded with him to \"forgive your former vice-president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar of whatever political sin or offence he might have committed against you.\" In response Obasanjo is quoted as saying that \"as a leader and father, I bear no grudge against anybody and if there is, I have forgiven them all.\"\n\nIn August 2013, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) registered two new political parties. One of them was the Peoples Democratic Movement. Local media reports suggested that the party was formed by Abubakar as a back-up plan in case he was unable to fulfill his rumoured presidential ambitions on the PDP platform. In a statement Abubakar acknowledged that the PDM was founded by his \"political associates\", but that he remained a member of the PDP.\n\nOn 2 February 2014, Abubakar left the Peoples Democratic Party to the join All Progressives Congress. with the intent of contesting the Nigerian presidency in 2015 on the party's platform.\n\nOn Friday, 24 November 2017, Abubakar announced his exit from the All Progressives Congress (APC), a party he helped to form.\n\nOn December 3, 2017, via a Facebook Live broadcast, Abubakar announced his return to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The announcement followed consultations the former Vice President had with party leaders and stakeholders from across the country. He said he decided to 'return home' to the PDP now that the issues which made him leave the party had been resolved.\n\nAbubakar declared his candidacy for the presidential nomination of the PDP mid 2018 and won the nomination at its convention on October 7. He defeated 11 other contestants and got 1,532 votes, 839 more than the runner-up, the Governor of Sokoto State Aminu Tambuwal.\n\nAmerican University of Nigeria (AUN) is the first American-style university to be established in Sub-Saharan Africa. It was founded in Yola, the capital of Adamawa State as ABTI American University of Nigeria (AAUN) by Abubakar in 2005. He has said that having benefited from the U.S. system of instruction as a young man, he was eager to make available in Nigeria an American trained faculty – emphasising critical thinking, small classes, student participation, problem-solving. AUN has received special recognition from Google.\n\nIn 2012 Abubakar donated $750,000 to the National Peace Corps Association in the United States, \"to fund a new initiative featuring global leaders who will discuss Peace Corps's impact.\" It was the largest ever individual donation in the Association's history.\n\nIn his speeches and commentary Abubakar is a vocal advocate of the importance of Nigeria's educational system. In August 2013 he sponsored a students' essay contest to generate solutions to Nigeria's most pressing institutional educational challenges. Entrants were asked to write between 2,000 and 5,000 words on the topic 'More Learning to More People: How can Nigeria be more innovative in bridging its literacy and skills gap?'.\n\nA longlist was announced on 21 October 2013, and the winners a week later. The joint first prize went to Kenechukwu Nneka Lily Nwagbo and Emeka Chigozie Ezekwesiri.\n\nUpon the release of the dismal results of the May–June 2014 West African Examinations Council (WAEC) results, Abubakar said, in a statement:\n\n″Our country’s educational institutions are clearly not providing quality learning. Our teachers need to be taught. This situation is a new development—of the past 10 years or so. The steady decline of education in Nigeria is a reflection of our country’s relegation of education to the background of national essentialities. That is where the change must begin. Teachers are important—as important as senators and doctors. Indeed, teachers determine the quality of senators and doctors. And so, the entire country stands to suffer the effects of this neglect in future. Nigeria must once again make education a priority. We must return to the basics.″\n\nIn a bid to alleviate the educational decadence in Northeastern Nigeria, Abubakar issued scholarship to 15 escapees of the Chibok schoolgirls kidnapping.\n\nAbubakar is banned from travelling to the United States for a reason unknown to the public. Atiku was implicated in an international bribery scandal along with William jefferson and one of Atiku's wife, Jenifer Atiku Abubakar . In January 2017, the U.S. government released a statement saying it would need the consent of the politician before it can disclose the true state of his immigration status to the United States. Abubakar has publicly claimed that the true reason is that his visa is still being processed a statement the spokesperson for the Nigerian president called \"curious\".\n\nIn 1982 Abubakar was awarded the chieftaincy of the Turaki of Adamawa by Adamawa's traditional ruler, Alhaji Aliyu Mustafa. The title had previously been reserved for the monarch's favourite prince in the palace, as the holder is in charge of the monarch's domestic affairs.\n\nIn 2011, while celebrating the 50th anniversary of the US Peace Corps in 2011, the National Peace Corps Association (NPCA) – an independent 501 (c) (3) nonprofit organisation, separate from the Peace Corps, that serves as an alumni association for Returned Peace Corps Volunteers – honoured Abubakar with the Harris Wofford Global Citizen Award. \nAt the presentation of the award, the National Peace Corps Association described Abubakar as one individual who contributed to the development of higher education on the continent of Africa. \"No private businessman in Africa has worked harder for democracy or contributed more to the progress of higher education than Atiku Abubakar,\" the NPCA said.\n\nIn June 2017, Abubakar was awarded the chieftaincy title of the Waziri of Adamawa, and his previous title of Turaki was transferred to his son Aliyu.\n\nAbubakar has been active on Twitter since the 2011 elections, but stepped up his engagement in May 2013. In August 2013, he became the only second Nigerian politician to be verified, after Lagos State Governor Tunde Fashola. As at November 2015, he had more than 390,000 followers. He currently has 450,000 Facebook fans. Also in 2013, he launched a blog.\n\nIn an August 2013 post, he shared his views on the role and relevance of social media to governance and democracy in Nigeria.\n\nAbubakar launched the True Federalism campaign in 2017. He has been delivering speeches all over the country inspiring Nigerians on the need to restructure the country. He has been receiving massive endorsement for his stand on True Federalism.\n\nHe recently declared at an event where he was conferred the award Hero Of Democracy by Hall of Grace Magazine.\n\n“Political decentralization will also help to deepen and strengthen our democracy as it will encourage more accountability. Citizens are more likely to demand accountability when governments spend their tax money rather than rent collected from an impersonal source.”\n\nHe also said: \"True Federalism will encourage states to competes to attract investments and skilled workers rather than merely waiting for monthly revenue allocation from Abuja\"\n\nMany of his speeches have caused positive stir nationwide as Nigerians are supporting the idea of True Federalism which involves allowing states to have control over their resources most especially the South South and South East of Nigeria. \n"}
{"id": "8300292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8300292", "title": "B&amp;H Photo Video", "text": "B&amp;H Photo Video\n\nB&H Photo Video, founded in 1973 and located at 420 Ninth Avenue on the corner of West 34th Street and 9th Avenue in Manhattan, New York City, is the largest non-chain photo and video equipment retailer in the United States. B&H conducts business through online e-commerce consumer sales, business to business sales, and its one retail location. Customers engage with B&H via its websites, retail store, phone sales and customer service, email, and chat channels.\nB&H has been frequently recognized as a leader in its industry. According to the YouTube personality Casey Neistat, B&H is \"arguably the greatest photo video store on Planet Earth.\" B&H was named the leading online consumer electronics retailer by Consumers Reports for 2018 and has been similarly recognized for the past ten years. Newsweek named B&H as one of America's Top Companies for Customer Service for 2019, with top position in the consumer electronics category based on over 130,000 customer evaluations. In 2018, Forbes named B&H as one of America's Best Mid-Size Employers. Also in 2018, B&H's consumer website was recognized as the Best for User Experience of any e-commerce company by the Baymard Institute.\n\nB&H Photo Video targets professional photographers and videographers. Although it is visited by more than 5,000 customers every day from Sunday to Friday, most of the company's business comes from the Internet and corporate sales. It operates a warehouse located in Florence, NJ. The company carries a wide range of consumer electronics products, with an emphasis on professional and specialty photographic equipment.\n\nThe business owner, Herman Schreiber, and many of the store's employees are observant Satmar Hasidic Jews. The store is closed on Shabbat, most Jewish holidays (except for Hanukkah, when business dealings are permitted), and Christmas. Although the web site remains open, e-commerce orders are not taken or shipped between Friday evening and Saturday evening, and on Jewish holidays.\n\nThe brick and mortar store employs hundreds of Orthodox Jews as well as many non-Jews. An unaffiliated Orthodox Jewish bus company provides daily service to and from Kiryas Joel, a Satmar village in Orange County, New York, as well as Brooklyn and Queens.\n\nB&H opened in 1973 as a storefront film shop at 17 Warren Street in Tribeca, and took its name from the initials of owners Blimie Schreiber and her husband, Herman. Later in the 1970s, B&H moved to a large loft at 119 West 17th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues in the Photo District and began to expand its stock to a wider range of film and photography products. In 1997, the store moved to its present location. In addition to photo and video gear, the company offers computers, lighting, audio, TV's, mobile, drones, optics, and more. It now has more than 2,000 employees.\n\nB&H is located just south of Hell's Kitchen, Manhattan, at 420 Ninth Avenue at the intersection with West 34th Street. In 2007, B&H opened a second floor above its original sales floor making a total of of sales space. The first floor sells professional lighting, binoculars, scopes, video, audio, darkroom, film and both home and portable entertainment; the second floor focuses on film and digital photography, computers, printers, tripods, scanners and related accessories.\n\nAlso in 2007, B&H moved its offices to 440 9th Avenue in Manhattan. As the company has grown, it expanded its office presence to accommodate sales, customer service, buying, marketing, and various back office functions; these functions are housed in 150,000 square feet of office space.\n\nIn 2007, B&H began making sales through Google Checkout.\n\nThe store is noted for having an extensive conveyor belt system that runs along the ceiling.\n\nThe store sponsors reviews and events for many tech-savvy websites and tech enthusiast websites including AndroidGuys and Imaging Resource.\n\nIn 2015, their Google Play app was named the \"Best Mobile Shopping App\" at the Mobile Shop Conference.\n\nIn 2015, B&H hired SiteSpect, a personalization platform, to help them with online shoppers. B&H often host noted photographers on their podcasts to discuss their books and photos. They have a human operator (or employee) maintaining an active presence on Twitter, YouTube, Facebook, Instagram, and company blogs.\n\nIn 2015, B&H added an Apple authorized shop to the computer department featuring two Apple iconic wooden tables with an assortment of Apple products from Macs, iPads to Apple Watch. There is an Apple employee in shop to assist and consult. In June 2015, B&H Photo offered Apple Pay in its iOS app.\n\nIn 2016, Vaio announced that they signed a contract with B&H photo video, to offer their products once again in New York.\n\nIn April 2016 B&H Photo announced that they joined forces with CE Week and would be present on the tech show in that June. In November 2016, B&H Photo offered Apple Pay on mobile web, iOS, and in store.\n\nIn May 2018, B&H was named by Forbes Magazine as one of America's Best Midsize Employers for 2018. The Forbes recognition was based on independent employee surveys conducted by Forbes.\n\nIn October 2007, it was announced that B&H Photo agreed to pay US$4.3 million to settle allegations that it discriminated against Hispanic workers, while not admitting any wrongdoing.\n\nIn November 2009, a lawsuit against B&H Photo alleged that the store refused to hire women, in violation of New York City and New York State Human Rights Laws. The lawsuit, brought by four women, sought class action status on behalf of all women discriminated against by B&H over the course of many years. Given B&H's prior alleged discriminatory practices, the lawsuit sought US$19 million in compensatory and punitive damages in order to deter future discriminatory practices. In 2011, a lawsuit alleged discrimination against Hispanic workers.\n\nIn February 2016 the United States Department of Labor filed a lawsuit against B&H alleging that the company had only hired Hispanic men into entry-level jobs in a Brooklyn warehouse and then subjected them to harassment and unsanitary conditions. On August 16, 2017, the company announced that it had settled this matter for a reported $3.22 million.\n\nIn May 2007, Zagat wrote that B&H offers \"more cameras than the paparazzi at the Oscars\", with \"cordial\" staffers who \"know their stuff\".\n\nIn 2016, Consumer Reports awarded B&H Photo its #1 Top Rating for Best Electronics Retailer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1406962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406962", "title": "Baltimore International College", "text": "Baltimore International College\n\nThe Baltimore International College (BIC), founded in 1972, was a private, non-profit college located in Baltimore, Maryland. It offered specialized degree programs in Culinary Arts and Hospitality Management. \nThe College was taken over by Stratford University in January 2012.\n\nBIC was accredited by the American Culinary Federation. It lost its accreditation from the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools on August 31, 2011 due to unaddressed issues from its 2007 review. BIC was acquired by Stratford University in January 2012, and the former campuses are now Stratford campuses.\n\nThe college’s main campus is located in downtown Baltimore near the Inner Harbor. The college owns two full-service hotels downtown Baltimore—the Mount Vernon Hotel and Hopkins Inn. Further, BIC owns and operates the Bay Atlantic Club, which offers delivery breakfast and lunch, dine-in lunch, and as banquet hall with reservations. In addition, the college operates the Park Hotel on its 100-acre (400,000 m²) Virginia Park satellite campus in Virginia, County Cavan, Ireland.\n\nThe college offers student housing in Dublin Hall, which is location in the Mount Vernon Hotel. Slightly more than half (52 percent) of its 800 or so students are male.\n\n"}
{"id": "12215218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12215218", "title": "Bates Australia", "text": "Bates Australia\n\nBates Australia is a leading saddle manufacturer originally established in 1934. Bates Saddlery was formed when Mr. George Bates borrowed $100 from his sister, bought a sewing machine and began to make saddles on the veranda of his home in Perth, Western Australia. Bates Australia is the parent company to Bates Saddles and Wintec. \n\nThe family-owned business, located in Perth, Western Australia, has expanded into many international markets and can now be found in 36 countries around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "45014467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45014467", "title": "Caribbean Financial Action Task Force", "text": "Caribbean Financial Action Task Force\n\nThe Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF) is an organization of states and territories of the Caribbean Basin that have agreed to implement common counter-measures against money laundering. CFATF has associate status within the Financial Action Task Force (on Money Laundering) (FATF).\n\nThe CFATF was established as the result of two key meetings convened in Aruba in and Jamaica. In Aruba in 1990 representatives of Caribbean and Central American countries developed a general approach to the problem of the laundering of criminal proceeds and made 19 recommendations. A meeting of ministers held in Kingston, Jamaica, in 1992, resulted in the Kingston Declaration, endorsing the commitment of the member states to implementing the recommendations and coordinating the implementation through establishment of the CFATF Secretariat.\n\nMembers of CFATF are:\n"}
{"id": "9873160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9873160", "title": "China Council for the Promotion of International Trade", "text": "China Council for the Promotion of International Trade\n\nThe China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT ) is a trade body founded in 1952. It also goes by the name of the China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC 中国国际商会).\n\nThe CCPIT develops business cooperation and exchanges with foreign countries. It produces economic data, and is involved with diplomacy and with trade arbitration issues.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28296271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28296271", "title": "Christian Allhusen", "text": "Christian Allhusen\n\nChristian Augustus Henry Allhusen (1806–1890) was a Danish-English chemical manufacturer based in the North East of England. Born in Kiel when it was in the Danish Duchy of Holstein, he and his family were displaced when Marshall Davoust, Napoleon's \"Iron Marshall,\" occupied the family home as his headquarters. Allhusen was employed by Koch & Sons, grain merchants of Rostock and then moved to Newcastle, where he was employed by Campbell & Reveley, also grain merchants. Allhusen became a British citizen by a private Act of Parliament. He later went into partnership with Henry Bolckow and expanded into the ship and insurance brokerage business.\n\nIn 1840, Allhusen purchased a soap works in Gateshead, and began the manufacture of chemicals, eventually calling the company C. Allhusen & Sons. In 1871, Allhusen converted his enterprise into a joint-stock company, Newcastle Chemical Works, Ltd. He made a large fortune, and was influential in the region as company director and shareholder in such companies as the Northumberland & Durham District Bank, the Newcastle & Gates Water Company and the Consett Iron Works. He was an active member of the Newcastle Chamber of Commerce and the Tyne Commission.\n\nIn 1854, Allhusen was among local industrialists urging construction of a new quay for Gateshead. When the quay was eventually constructed, the local government failed to include necessary transportation facilities to allow efficient transport to and from the quay facility. As a result, the quay complex required years of subsidies and struggled to avoid failure as Allhusen had predicted.\n\nAllhusen died January 13, 1890 at Stoke Court, Buckinghamshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "1231372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1231372", "title": "Constantin Argetoianu", "text": "Constantin Argetoianu\n\nConstantin Argetoianu ( – 6 February 1955) was a Romanian politician, one of the best-known personalities of interwar Greater Romania, who served as the Prime Minister between 28 September and 23 November 1939. His memoirs, \"Memorii. Pentru cei de mâine. Amintiri din vremea celor de ieri\" (\"Memoirs. For those of tomorrow. Recollections of yesterday's world\")—a cross section of Romanian society, were made known for the sharp critique of several major figures in Romanian politics (using a sarcastic tone which had made his previous political speeches notorious).\n\nBorn in Craiova as the son of Army general Ioan Argetoianu, he trained in Law, Medicine, and Letters at the University of Paris, and later entered the diplomatic service (1897).\n\nHe was an exceptionally prosperous man (a noted Stock Exchange player and landowner in Breasta, Dolj County), and his frequent change in political allegiances was attributed by some of his contemporaries to his financial independence. He served as a combat medic with the rank of captain in the Second Balkan War, where he faced a cholera epidemic.\n\nA Freemason, Argetoianu was first elected to the Senate in 1914 as a Conservative Party representative, where he oscillated between the dissident the mainstream Conservatives of Petre P. Carp and the dissident group around Take Ionescu (the latter was welcoming Romania's entry into World War I on the side of the Entente Powers, which Argetoianu also proposed).\n\nThroughout 1918, during the final stages of the Romanian Campaign, Argetoianu was Justice Minister, sitting on the first Alexandru Averescu cabinet (at the time when authorities had retreated to Iaşi, leaving the southern half of the country to be occupied by Imperial German, Austro-Hungarian and Bulgarian troops). He was also head of the Romanian delegation at the Peace preliminaries of Buftea, in 1918. The talks resulted in the Treaty of Bucharest of May, which consecrated Romania's defeat by the Central Powers. His actions at the time were later the subject of an epigram by Cincinat Pavelescu (Pavelescu expressed his belief that the treaty and Argetoianu's views on fiscal policies were to be the subject of scorn for future generations).\n\nArgetoianu followed Averescu into opposition to the Ion I. C. Brătianu National Liberal Party (PNL) cabinet, and joined the People's Party (PP) created by the latter. He later documented the populist message of the movement, and left testimonies of Averescu's spontaneous adulation by the crowds of peasants.\n\nArgetoianu was Finance Minister and later Interior Minister in the second Averescu government of 1920. In March 1921, it was uncovered that an associate of his named Aron Schuller had attempted to contract a 20 million lire loan with a bank in Italy, using as collateral Romanian war bonds that he had illegally obtained from the Finance Ministry reserve. Argetoianu, who was still in charge at the time, became the target of attacks from the opposition group formed by the Romanian National Party and the Peasants' Party, being pressed by Virgil Madgearu and Grigore Iunian to explain himself (Iunian proposed a motion of no confidence, but the PNL continued to show its support for the PP).\n\nArgetoianu soon became noted for his anti-communist stance: he carried out arrests of those Socialist Party members who, during their party's congress in May 1921, supported a maximalist platform and voted in favor of aligning their Socialist-Communist faction (future Communist Party of Romania) with the Comintern, citing the latter's condemnation of Greater Romania (all those arrested were prosecuted in the Dealul Spirii Trial). Argetoianu later stated that the arrest lacked legal grounds, and indicated that he purposely gave the Socialist Gheorghe Cristescu approval to hold the congress as a means to incriminate the faction. Faced with mixed reactions inside the cabinet (Averescu hesitated, while the Minister of Justice Grigore Trancu-Iași refused to give him support), he ordered the move without his fellow ministers' prior knowledge, and thus faced them with a \"fait accompli\".\n\nThe standoff between Averescu and the parliamentary opposition eventually witnessed a decisive incident: during a prolonged debate over Averescu's proposal to nationalize enterprises in Reşiţa, Argetoianu addressed a mumbled insult to Madgearu; the PNL, seeing an opportunity for a return to power, expressed sympathy, and all opposition groups appealed to Ferdinand, asking for Averescu's recall (July 14, 1921).\n\nDespite Averescu's eventual defeat in December 1921, Argetoianu was kept in office by the Take Ionescu and Brătianu cabinets. During the spring of 1922, he ordered the killing of several Communist activists who were held in prison custody, including Leonte Filipescu, staging their attempts to flee from under escort as a pretext. Nevertheless, pressures on the revolutionary grouping were relaxed in summer, when King Ferdinand I approved an amnesty and Argetoianu officially declared that \"communism is over in Romania\".\n\nIn 1923, after Brătianu again assumed power, he clashed with Averescu and proclaimed himself leader of the PP, being eventually expelled. Having joined Nicolae Iorga's Democratic Nationalist Party (PND), he soon vehemently protested against the latter's alliance with the Romanian National Party, and moved to the PNL.\n\nFollowing the sudden death of Ion I. C. Brătianu in 1927, and choosing, in contrast to the policies of Dinu Brătianu, to support the new King Carol II in 1930, Argetoianu left the party and subsequently defined himself as an independent. In effect, he moved into the camp of politicians approving of an authoritarian regime around Carol. As the monarch's relations with the traditional political class were souring, Argetoianu allegedly engaged in a campaign to draw new allegiances from other environments, aiding to establish a Romanian \"camarilla\" — it was even reported that, using the official commitment to neutral technocracy as a means to appoint his choice of people to positions of influence, he had recruited his fellow Bucharest Jockey Club members. Among his most vocal supporters at the time was the far right philosopher Nae Ionescu.\n\nHe was again in charge of Internal Affairs and Finance from 1931 to 1932, during the Iorga government, when he took a harsh stance against the fascist Iron Guard, outlawing it and arresting some of its members (which led to a string of violent confrontations). Argetoianu was hotly contested as Finance Minister: faced with the widespread insolvency of small agricultural holdings in front of the Great Depression, he proposed a form of liquidation that was considered in breach of the 1923 Constitution. Various other issues forced Argetoianu to cease payments of salaries for civil servants at certain intervals, causing far-reaching problems.\n\nThe government was voted out of office in the elections of 1932, when Iorga was replaced by Alexandru Vaida-Voevod, a member of the National Peasants' Party (PNŢ) who was himself challenged with solving the agrarian issue; Argetoianu subsequently founded the minor Agrarian Union Party, which, after the National Liberals returned to power with Ion G. Duca, remained a close associate of the king in his competition with traditional forces; when Duca was assassinated by the Iron Guard in the final days of 1933, Argetoianu, together with his former adversary, PNŢ dissident Grigore Iunian, and the National Agrarian Party's Octavian Goga, was probably one of the king's main options in his attempt to create an altogether new political establishment around the \"camarilla\", relying on a compromise with Corneliu Zelea Codreanu (leader of the Iron Guard). Codreanu refused to accept negotiation, but Carol successfully approached the PNL's \"young liberals\" faction, which came to power with Gheorghe Tătărescu (January 1934).\n\nThe frequent target of attacks in the Iron Guard press, Argetoianu led his grouping until 1938, when, faced with the unstoppable rise of the Iron Guard, Carol banned all parties and established his National Renaissance Front (FRN).\n\nHis own short-lived FRN cabinet, established after that date, was, after Gheorghe Argeşanu's the second in quick succession to the violent clash between the Guard and monarch (after the murder of Armand Călinescu by the former). The Argetoianu government was replaced by that of Tătărescu, who had to deal with the Soviet Union's occupation of Bessarabia and was in turn replaced with Ion Gigurtu (Argetoianu, who remained influential throughout the period, began calling for a rapprochement between Romania and the Soviets).\n\nCarol's regime crumbled after the Second Vienna Award, when Romania had to cede Northern Transylvania to Hungary; it was replaced by the Iron Guard's National Legionary State, which, itself repressed during the previous years, began a campaign of retaliation — like Tătărescu and several others, Argetoianu was kidnapped on November 27, 1940 in the wake of the Jilava Massacre, and faced assassination until being rescued by the intervention of Romanian Army officials.\n\nRetreating from public life during World War II and the Ion Antonescu dictatorship (\"see Romania during World War II\"), Argetoianu left the country in the spring of 1944, settling in Switzerland. Romania's withdrawal from the Axis and the start of Soviet occupation caused him to return in November, seeing an opportunity in the apparent decrease in the appeal of traditional parties and expanding on his vision of Romanian-Soviet cooperation. He was the subject of derision in the National Peasants' Party press (\"Dreptatea\" wrote of him: \"leading the intrigue in favor of a private property–based communism, a capitalist-based socialism, a mass-free democracy... The country is trustingly placing itself at your disposal. Here are your strings: pull them! Here are your back rooms: maneuver them! Here is your «people»: take it away!\").\n\nAttempting in vain to mediate between the Communists and the PNȚ, Argetoianu was rejected by both sides, and, in January 1947, formed his own grouping — the \"National Union for Work and Reconstruction\" (\"Uniunea Națională Muncă și Refacere\", UNMR) —, alongside Nicolae Ottescu, Nicolae D. Cornățeanu, Zamfir Brătescu and others. It was kept under surveillance by the Communist-controlled Petru Groza government, and was infiltrated by the pro-Communist \"National-Agrarian Action\" (\"Acțiunea Național-Agrară\", ANA). The UNMR disbanded over worries that Argetoianu was losing credibility with Soviet authorities—the group around Cornățeanu joined Premier Groza's Ploughmen's Front, while others entered the Union of Patriots.\n\nArgetoianu, who was ill at the time and had just undergone surgery on his prostate, withdrew from public life for a second time. Two years after a Communist regime was imposed on Romania, on the morning of May 6, 1950, he was arrested by the Securitate; while being taken away, he was heard saying: \"Man, you sure are tough, you communists, if you are afraid of a farting old man such as myself\". He died in the infamous Sighet prison five years later, never having been put on trial. In 1999, attorney and civil rights activist Monica Macovei, representing Argetoianu's two granddaughters - Yvonne\nOroveanu Niculescu and Constantina \"Dina\" Oroveanu - before court cleared Argetoianu of all charges, with prosecutor Carp admitting that Argetoianu's detention had been an abuse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44425089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44425089", "title": "Decision Model and Notation", "text": "Decision Model and Notation\n\nDecision Model and Notation (DMN) is a standard published by the Object Management Group. It is a standard approach for describing and modeling repeatable decisions within organizations to ensure that decision models are interchangeable across organizations.\n\nThe DMN standard provides the industry with a modeling notation for decisions that will support decision management and business rules. The notation is designed to be readable by business and IT users alike. This enables various groups to effectively collaborate in defining a decision model:\n\nThe DMN standard can be effectively used standalone but it is also complementary to the BPMN and CMMN standards. BPMN defines a special kind of activity, the Business Rule Task, which \"provides a mechanism for the process to provide input to a business rule engine and to get the output of calculations that the business rule engine might provide\" that can be used to show where in a BPMN process a decision defined using DMN should be used.\n\nDMN has been made a standard for Business Analysis according to BABOK v3.\n\nThe standard includes three main elements\n\nThe standard identifies three main use cases for DMN\n\nUsing the DMN standard will improve business analysis and business process management, since\n\nDMN has been designed to work with BPMN. Business process models can be simplified by moving process logic into decision services. DMN is a separate domain within the OMG that provides an explicit way to connect to processes in BPMN. Decisions in DMN can be explicitly linked to processes and tasks that use the decisions. DMN expects that the logic of a decision will be deployed as a stateless, side-effect free Decision Service. Such a service can be invoked from a business process and the data in the process can be mapped to the inputs and outputs of the decision service.\n\nAs mentioned, BPMN is a related OMG Standard for process modeling. DMN complements BPMN, providing a separation of concerns between the decision and the process. The example here describes a BPMN process and DMN DRD (Decision Requirements Diagram) for onboarding a bank customer. Several decisions are modeled and these decisions will direct the processes response.\n\nIn the BPMN process model shown in the figure, a customer makes a request to open a new bank account. The account application provides the account representative with all the information needed to create an account and provide the requested services. This includes the name, address and various forms of identification. In the next steps of the work flow, the 'Know Your Customer' (KYC) services are called. \nIn the 'KYC' services, the name and address are validated; followed by a check against the international criminal database (Interpol) and the database of persons that are 'Politically exposed persons (PEP)'. The PEP is a person who is either entrusted with a prominent political position or a close relative thereof. Deposits from persons on the PEP list are potentially corrupt. This is shown as two services on the process model. Anti-money-laundering (AML) regulations require these checks before the customer account is certified. \nThe results of these services plus the forms of identification are sent to the Certify New Account decision. This is shown as a 'rule' activity, verify account, on the process diagram. If the new customer passes certification, then the account is classified into onboarding for Business Retail, Retail, Wealth Management and High Value Business. Otherwise the customer application is declined. The Classify New Customer Decision classifies the customer.\nIf the verify-account process returns a result of 'Manual' then the PEP or the Interpol check returned a close match. The account representative must visually inspect the name and the application to determine if the match is valid and accept or decline the application.\n\nAn account is certified for opening if the individual's' address is verified, that valid identification is provided, and that the applicant is not on a list of criminals or politically exposed persons. These are shown as sub-decisions below the 'certify new account' decision.The account verification services provides a 100% match of the applicants address.\nFor identification to be valid, the customer must provide a driver's license, passport or government issued ID.\n\nThe checks against PEP and Interpol are 'Fuzzy' matches and return matching score values. Scores above 85 are considered a 'match' and scores between 65 and 85 would require a 'manual' screening process. People who match either of these lists are rejected by the account application process. If there is a partial match with a score between 65 and 85, against the Interpol or PEP list then the certification is set to manual and an account representative performs a manual verification of the applicant's data. These rules are reflected in the figure below, which presents the decision table for whether to pass the provided name for the lists checks.\nThe client's on-boarding process is driven by what category they fall in. The category is decided by the:\nThis decision is shown below:\n\nThere are 6 business rules that determine the client's category and these are shown in the decision table here:\nIn this example, the outcome of the 'Verify Account' decision directed the responses of the new account process. The same is true for the 'Classify Customer' decision. By adding or changing the business rules in the tables, one can easily change the criteria for these decisions and control the process differently.\n\nModeling is a critical aspect of improving an existing process or business challenge. Modeling is generally done by a team of business analysts, IT personnel, and modeling experts. The expressive modeling capabilities of BPMN allows business analyst to understand the functions of the activities of the process. Now with the addition of DMN, business analysts can construct an understandable model of complex decisions. Combining BPMN and DMN yields a very powerful combination of models that work synergistically to simplify processes.\n\nHere are some providers that support DMN:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47810762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47810762", "title": "Dimitris Kontominas", "text": "Dimitris Kontominas\n\nDimitris Kontominas (); born 1939) is a Greek businessman who is active in insurance, television, cinema and retail trade. He has one daughter and two grandchildren.\n\nHe was born on June 3, 1939 in Athens. He studied at the American University of Beirut. Initially he worked as insurer in \"American Life (ALICO)\". In 1969, he cofounded with Alexander Tampoura the insurance company \"Interamerican\". Interamerican now belongs to Eureko BV. Kontominas remained chairman until 2005.\n\nKontominas owns Prime Insurance and MyDirect insurers. He founded or acquired other companies, including:\n\nIn 2012 Kontominas took back the shares of Alpha TV when RTL Group decided to exit. In 2015 Alpha TV was the number one Greek TV station.\n\nKontpminas is the president of DEMCO GROUP, one of Greece's largest investment holding companies. It has a diversified portfolio, with holdings in media, financial services, entertainment, IT and telecom, leisure and Entertainment and Food & Beverages. Within its companies' portfolio one can find Village Group (Cinema and films), Alpha TV and Alpha Radio, Intertech (Panasonic's exclusive representative in Greece), Prime Insurance, myDirect online insurance, \"Sportday\" newspaper and many more. For a little time in the early 2000s was owner of Aris F.C..\n\nHe declared \"Great Protekdikos Archon of the Ecumenical Throne\" from the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople and \"Great Benefactor\" from Metropolis of Chalcedon.Aris F.C.\n\nHe was arrested in 2014. According to the authorities approximately 200 million euros worth of loans were issued by the bank during the period in question to companies controlled by certain well-connected businessmen without guarantees, none of which have been repaid. The case is also linked to another financial scandal involving another 300 million worth of losses due to bad loans made to a property developer. The accused face charges including fraud, money laundering and complicity in malpractice. An extremely scandalous man, no one refers to the money he stole from Greeks living abroad while he was owner of Interamerican. The story hit the media in 2004 by a rivalry channel Alter owned by Nikos Kouris. The channel does not exist anymore and the Interamerican Scandal is nowhere to be mentioned.\n\n"}
{"id": "17106978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17106978", "title": "DocPoint", "text": "DocPoint\n\nDocPoint is a commercial document management system. DocPoint targets a wide\nvariety of audiences ranging from corporations and government institutions, to\nsmall and medium enterprises across a broad spectrum of market verticals.\n\nDocPoint is designed to meet the requirements of:\n\nDocPoint simplifies regulatory compliance with the following standards:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24600744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24600744", "title": "Dominik Brunner", "text": "Dominik Brunner\n\nDominik Florian Brunner (born 18 May 1959 in Stuttgart, died 12 September 2009 in Munich) was a German businessman. He was the CFO of Erlus AG, Germany’s largest roof tile manufacturer. He was killed in a fight which resulted from Brunner trying to protect a group of school children from attacks by teenagers.\n\nBrunner was born to a family of entrepreneurs. His father, Oscar Brunner, was the finance manager of one of Germany's largest roof tile manufacturers, Erlus AG. After receiving his Abitur in Landshut, Brunner studied law at the University of Munich and worked in office positions in San Francisco and Paris. He followed in his father's footsteps when he took a leading position at Erlus AG. His fields of responsibility included finance, organization, personnel, law and purchases.\n\nIn the 1990s, Brunner trained in kickboxing at Boxclub Straubing, but gave up the hobby after\nhe noticed more and more young men arriving at the club to learn how to beat others.\n\nOn 12 September 2009, four school children were being threatened on a Munich S-Bahn train by two older teenagers, Markus Schiller and Sebastian Leibinger, who tried to rob and mug them. When Brunner and the young teens arrived at München Solln station, Brunner was punched and kicked over 20 times. He eventually died on-site due to a pre-existing heart condition.\n\nSchiller and Leibinger were charged with murder. In the court case, it was proven that Brunner became involved with the aim of protecting the school children, but questions were raised as to whether he died due to the brutal beating by the accused, and there were differing versions of how the fight between Brunner and the accused started. When the accused were threatening the children, Brunner asked them to stop, or he would call the police. The accused did not listen, so Brunner informed the police. He then asked the children to \"stay away\", took up a combat position and started to hit and fight the accused. However, according to another witness, Brunner approached the accused, shouted \"this is what you want\", and then hit Markus Schiller in the face. Although he was described as a hero in early media reports, there was discussion later regarding how much blame for starting the fight lies with Brunner himself.\n\nThe court pronounced judgement on 6 September 2010: Schiller, who had by then turned 19, was sentenced to 9 years and 10 months in a youth facility as a primary accomplice in an attempted robbery with violence leading to murder; Leibinger was sentenced to 7 years in a youth facility as a primary accomplice in an attempted robbery with violence leading to grievous bodily harm resulting in death. The Federal Court of Justice rejected the defence appeal.\n\nBrunner was posthumously awarded the Bavarian Order of Merit (\"Bayerischer Verdienstorden\") by Minister-President of Bavaria Horst Seehofer, and the Federal Cross of Merit by German President Horst Köhler.\n\n"}
{"id": "31327491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31327491", "title": "Downtown Palatka", "text": "Downtown Palatka\n\nDowntown Palatka is the central business district of Palatka, Florida. According to the Palatka Community Redevelopment Agency, the district is bounded by Main Street to the north, Laural Street to the south, the St. Johns River to the east, and Eleventh Street to the west, Historical Fort Shannon was located at the east end of downtown on the river, near what is today City Hall. Area transportation is conducted by Ride Solution and connects downtown passengers to other core areas in Putnam County.\n\nPublic offices and services located in the downtown area:\n\nThe downtown area contains important local cultural landmarks such as the Larimer Arts Center, Tilghman House, Bronson-Mulholland House, and the David Browning Railroad Museum. Downtown also plays host to local festivals and events including, the Florida Azalea Festival, Blue Crab Festival, and Mug Race. Numerous other public gathers occur throughout the year. Murals have become a common sight on the streets of downtown. Headed by the Conlee Mural Committee, the group has transformed numerous building walls into works of art.\n\nDowntown Palatka, Inc. is a non-profit organization that represents area merchants and promotes local events in the downtown area. Palatka Community Redevelopment Agency is an organization established in 1983 to oversee the revitalization of downtown and the historic districts. Issues of concern to the agency include the presence of substandard or inadequate structures, a shortage of affordable housing, inadequate infrastructure, insufficient roadways, and inadequate parking.\n\nTechnically, Lemon Street is the portion of St. Johns Avenue that extends into Downtown Palatka. The tree lined street serves as the main shopping district in the city. The area has made strides in becoming a 24-hour neighborhood, with new restaurants, bars and other establishments opening in recent years. During large events vehicular traffic is diverted and the street acts as the main pedestrian-way, housing vendors and entertainment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13467968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13467968", "title": "Facilitating payment", "text": "Facilitating payment\n\nA facilitating payment is a certain type of payment to foreign officials that is not considered to be bribery according to legislations of some states as well as in the international anti-bribery conventions, e.g., coming from the OECD.\n\nFor legal purposes, it is distinguished from bribery, however the distinction is often blurred. Determining whether a payment is a facilitating one may be difficult and depend on the circumstances. The value of the payment is not immediately relevant, however the greater the value, the higher are chances that it will be a red flag for law enforcement. Small unofficial payments are customary and even legal in some countries, nevertheless they may present a risk of liability according to the laws of the host country. There also exists a slippery slope danger of evolving into dubious payments.\n\nWhile being legal, facilitating payments are still considered to be questionable from the point of view of business ethics. The following arguments have been made:\n\nMany companies therefore restrict or severely limit making facilitating payments in their policies, however this practice is not yet widespread. For example, , in Australia, among the S&P ASX 100 only 24 companies control facilitating payments and only 15 are reported to prohibit them.\n\nOECD defines a payment to be a facilitating one if it is paid to government employees to speed up an administrative process where the outcome is already pre-determined.\n\n, the Australian law has discrepancies as to the definition of the facilitating payment.\n\nThe Criminal Code defines a facilitating payment to be a payment which is \n\nThe Income Tax Assessment Act as amended in 1999 permit companies claim facilitation payments as deductions (before 1999 bribes were also valid deductions), but its definition does not refer to the size of the payment.\n\nMany Australian states override the federal legislation and define facilitating payments as illegal.\n\nIn Russia this phrase (in English) means payment to a bureaucrat when he does off-job extra work for a private entity by helping deal with his ministry. It is generally unclear whether it has a part of corruption in it. It was generally considered legal, until economy minister Ulyukaev received 8 years jail for it. After this case, Russian bureaucrats are reported to heavily refrain from this practice.\n\n, subsequent to the Bribery Act, the United Kingdom does not recognize the legality of facilitating payments and does not draw any distinction from bribes. However the OECD notes that the UK is unlikely to prosecute for minor facilitating payments in the areas where it is a common practice. The Ministry of Justice guidance, however, confirms that prosecutors will exercise discretion in determining whether to prosecute. In addition, informal guidance received from the SFO indicate that where it is considering action, it will be guided by the following six principles:\n\nWithin the United States federal legislation, a facilitating payment or \"grease payment\", as defined by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) of 1977 and clarified in its 1988 amendments, is a payment to a foreign official, political party or party official for \"routine governmental action\", such as processing papers, issuing permits, and other actions of an official, in order to expedite performance of duties of non-discretionary nature, i.e., which they are already bound to perform. The payment is not intended to influence the outcome of the official's action, only its timing. Facilitation payments are one of the few exceptions from anti-bribery prohibitions of the law.\n\nPrior to the 1988 amendments, the exclusion of \"grease payments\" was via the definition of the \"foreign official\", which did not include persons without discretionary (decision-making) duties, e.g., ones with clerical functions. The major drawback of this approach is that often it is difficult to properly identify the scope of duties of a foreign official. The 1988 amendment eliminated this drawback by placing the emphasis on the purpose of the payment rather than on the duties of the recipient. At the same time the scope of the \"routine governmental actions\" in question was made sufficiently narrow and supplied with detailed examples.\n"}
{"id": "7635652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7635652", "title": "Good safety practice", "text": "Good safety practice\n\nGood safety practice (GSP) refers to protocols dealing with safety. The term is often used in connection with occupational safety and health (OSH) and may vary between industries or sectors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "343533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=343533", "title": "Harkness Tower", "text": "Harkness Tower\n\nHarkness Tower is a masonry tower at Yale University in New Haven, Connecticut. Part of the Collegiate Gothic Memorial Quadrangle complex completed in 1922, it is named for Charles William Harkness, brother of Yale's largest benefactor, Edward Harkness.\n\nThe tower was constructed between 1917 and 1921 as part of the Memorial Quadrangle donated to Yale by Anna M. Harkness in honor of her recently deceased son, Charles William Harkness, an 1883 Yale graduate. When the residential college system was inaugurated in 1933, the tower became part of Branford College.\n\nIt was designed by James Gamble Rogers, a Yale College classmate of Anna Harkness's other son, Edward S. Harkness. James S. Hedden was the contractor's supervisor for the project and took many photographs of the construction's progress.\n\nThe tower underwent renovations from September 2009 to May 2010 to repair its masonry and ornament.\n\nHarkness Tower was the first \"couronne\" (\"crown\") tower in English Perpendicular Gothic style built in the modern era. James Gamble Rogers, who designed the tower and many of Yale's Collegiate Gothic structures, said it was inspired by the 15th-century Boston Stump, the tower of the parish church of St Botolph in Boston, Lincolnshire and tallest parish church tower in England. Rogers also based some details on the 16th-century tower of St Giles church in Wrexham, Wales, where Elihu Yale is buried. In turn, Harkness Tower has been identified as the direct influence for the tower of the Cathedral of Christ the King in Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nThe tower's image was adopted by the \"Yale Herald\", a weekly student newspaper, for its masthead.\n\nHarkness Tower is 216 feet (66 m) tall, one foot for each year since Yale's founding at the time it was built. From a square base, it rises in stages to a double stone crown on an octagonal base, and at the top are stone finials. From the street level to the roof, there are 284 steps.\n\nMidway to the top, four openwork copper clockfaces tell the hours. The bells of the carillon are behind the clockfaces, fixed to a frame made of steel I-beams. The playing console of the carillon is at the level of the balconies immediately below the clock faces. Lower levels of the tower house a water tank (no longer used), two practice carillons, the old chimes playing console, office space for the Yale University Guild of Carillonneurs, and a memorial chapel.\n\nThe tower was built of separate stone blocks, and reinforced with steel in 1966 to handle the new bells in the carillon.\nYale tour guides frequently mention the legend that the tower was the world's tallest free-standing stone structure until it required reinforcement after an eccentric architect or philanthropist ordered acid to be poured down the walls to make it look older. In reality, the Washington Monument was the country's tallest such structure long before Harkness Tower was built.\n\nThe towers's decorative elements were sculpted by Lee Lawrie. The lowest level of sculpture depicts Yale's \"Eight Worthies\": Elihu Yale, Jonathan Edwards, Nathan Hale, Noah Webster, James Fenimore Cooper, John C. Calhoun, Samuel F. B. Morse, and Eli Whitney. The second level of sculpture depicts Phidias, Homer, Aristotle, and Euclid. The next level of sculpture consists of allegorical figures depicting Medicine, Business, Law, the Church, Courage and Effort, War and Peace, Generosity and Order, Justice and Truth, Life and Progress, and Death and Freedom. The gargoyles on the top level depict Yale's students at war and in study (a pen-wielding writer, a proficient athlete, a tea-drinking socialite, and a diligent scholar), along with masks of Homer, Virgil, Dante, and Shakespeare.\n\nThe witticism, attributed to various modernist architects, that had they to choose any place in New Haven to live s/he would select the Harkness Tower, for then they \"would not have to look at it,\" is apparently apocryphal, derivative of a similar story told of Guy de Maupassant and the Eiffel Tower.\n\nThe tower contains the Yale Memorial Carillon, a 54-bell carillon. It is a transposing instrument; the C bell sounds a concert B. Ten bells were installed in 1922 and 44 added in 1966. The instrument is played by members of a student-run group set up for the purpose, the Yale Guild of Carillonneurs, and selected guest carillonneurs. During the school year, the instrument is played twice per day: a half-hour session at 12:30 p.m. and a one-hour session at 5:30 p.m. (Some residents of Branford College and Saybrook College<nowiki>, of which the tower forms a part of the periphery, have been known to refer to the daily performances as \"Heavy Metal.\")</nowiki> In summer it is played only in the evening, plus a summer series of Friday concerts. Carillon play was suspended in 2009 and 2010 during the tower's renovation.\n\n"}
{"id": "40496343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40496343", "title": "Helmut Haussmann", "text": "Helmut Haussmann\n\nHelmut Haussmann (born 18 May 1943) is a German academic and politician. He served as minister of economy from 1988 to 1991.\n\nHaussmann was born in Tübingen on 18 May 1943. He holds a degree in economics and social sciences from the University of Tübingen and from the University of Hamburg. He received a PhD in business management from Erlangen Nuremberg University in 1976.\n\nHaussmann worked in family business in Baden-Wurttemberg until 1979 when he became a member of the Bundestag in 1976 with the Free Democratic Party (FDP). He was the secretary-general of the party from 1984 to 1988. On 9 December 1988, he was appointed economy minister, replacing Martin Bangemann in the post. Haussmann served in the coalition cabinet led by Helmut Kohl during the reunification process of West and East Germany. Haussmann was reelected to the Bundestag from Baden-Wurttemberg state on 2 December 1990. He resigned from his ministerial post on 4 December 1990, but remained in office until 18 January 1991 and Jürgen W. Möllemann succeeded him as economy minister. \n\nSince 1996, he has been an honorary professor and teaching international management at the University of Erlangen Nürnberg. In 2001, he became chairman of the advisory board of GEMINI Executive Search. He has also been adjunct professor at the University of Tübingen where he has been teaching international business since 2010.\n\nHaussmann is a Protestant. He was criticized due to his lavish life-style when he was economy minister and was referred to as the \"yuppie minister.\"\n"}
{"id": "23686762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23686762", "title": "Hysteria Hospital: Emergency Ward", "text": "Hysteria Hospital: Emergency Ward\n\nHysteria Hospital: Emergency Ward is a casual video game published by O-Games on June 16, 2009 in North America. The game is a simulation/strategy that bears a striking resemblance to the popular Diner Dash franchise.\n\nHysteria Hospital tasks users with coordinating the management of a hospital. The goal of the game is to accumulate money over time by serving patients. Users can purchase new equipment such as X-Ray machines to meet the demands of their patients. Main gameplay elements involve diagnosing patients, and moving them to the applicable local facilities if available (or the ambulance to get sent elsewhere). Patients are moved by dragging them to different areas. A nurse is controllable by clicking on objects, and performs chores such as fetching prescriptions, making beds and cleaning waste.\n\nThe game was met with very mixed to negative reception upon release. GameRankings and Metacritic gave it a score of 51% and 45 out of 100 for the DS version, and 50.30% and 53 out of 100 for the Wii version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12780507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12780507", "title": "In Business", "text": "In Business\n\nIn Business is a half-hour documentary programme on BBC Radio 4.\n\nIt is presented by the BBC's Business Correspondent Peter Day, and is broadcast at 8:30 p.m. on Thursdays and repeated at 9:30 p.m. on Sundays. It is the sister program of Global Business, which is also presented by Day and is broadcast on the BBC World Service.\n\nIt began as an introductory programme on Tuesday 1 February 1983, being presented by Peter Hobday. From Tuesday 8 February it began as a half hour series at 8.35pm. From October 1984, it moved to 8.15pm. From October 1985, it was presented by Peter Smith, and moved to 7.20pm on Wednesdays and a repeat at 9.35am on Thursdays. In November 1987, it was at repeated at 4pm on Tuesdays, and on Thursdays in 1989. Peter Day joined in 1988. By 1991 it was at 8.45pm on Wednesdays and repeated at 7pm on Tuesdays. In 1992 it moved to 9pm on Wednesdays. Later in the year it moved to 8.45pm and the repeat moved to 7pm on Sundays. By the early 1990s, the programme was receiving a higher profile but was only broadcast on Sundays in 1994. In 1995 it moved to 6.30pm. By 1997, the internet was becoming of interest to business and to the programme. \n\nIn May 1998 it moved to 8.30pm on Mondays, and once more became a weekday programme. In January 2000, it moved to its present schedule of 8.30pm on Thursdays with a repeat at 9.30pm on Sundays.\n\nIts podcast is one of the most popular the BBC produces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859047", "title": "Jakob Heilmann", "text": "Jakob Heilmann\n\nJakob Heilmann (21 August 1846 in Geiselbach, Aschaffenburg County (Lower Franconia) – 15 February 1927 in Munich) was a German contractor.\n\nSon of a glazier, Heilmann attended the construction school in Munich and graduated with the exam as a master builder.\nSince 1866, he was into railway construction and in 1871 established the builders J. Heilmann in Regensburg. In 1892, his son-in-law, the young architect Professor Max Littmann (1862-1931) joined him, so the construction company of Heilmann & Littmann KG (after 1897 GmbH) came into existence. The real estate business was taken care by the Heilmann'sche Immobilien-Gesellschaft AG and several other related companies.\n\nHeilmann engaged mostly in the building of family homes and mansions, among others in Munich Gern and in Solln-Prinz-Ludwigshöhe.\n\nMagnificent and monumental buildings included the Schackgalerie, the Prinzregententheater, Münchener Neueste Nachrichten, Hofbräuhaus-rebuilding in Munich and several health resort hotels in other parts of Bavaria.\n\nAfter the partners Littmann and Richard Reverdy left in 1908 und 1909, his sons Albert and Otto joined the construction company..\n\nFurthermore, Jakob Heilmann initiated the founding of the electric power provider Isarwerke GmbH.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44448025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44448025", "title": "James Bray Griffith", "text": "James Bray Griffith\n\nJames Bray Griffith (1871 - Jan 1, 1937) was an American business theorist, and head of Department of Commerce, Accountancy, and Business Administration at the American School of Correspondence in Chicago, known as early systematizer of management.\n\nBorn in Maryland to Thomas Francis Griffith and Euphemia Hill, Griffith came into prominence in the 1900s. Early 1900s had joined the International Accountants' Society, Inc., a home study school founded in 1903 in Chicago. There he was director of the Course in Systematizing, and published his first book on systematizing in 1905. Earlier in the 1900s he had published a series of articles in \"The Life Insurance Independent and American Journal of Life Insurance,\" and in McGraw Hill's \"The Magazine of Business.\" \n\nLater in the 1900s Griffith joined the American School of Correspondence, a distance education high school founded in 1897. For the Department of Commerce, Accountancy, and Business Administration Griffith wrote a series of instruction papers, among others on \"Advertising & Sales Organization\" (1909), \"Purchasing and stores department\" (1909), \"Records of labor and manufacturing orders\" (1909), \"Theory of Accounts\" (1914). Griffith was head of the Department of Commerce, Accountancy, and Business Administration until the late 1910s.\n\nIn 1910 Griffith was Managing Editor of the \"Cyclopedia of Commerce, Accountancy, Business Administration,\" a general reference work on accounting, auditing, bookkeeping, commercial law, business management, administrative and industrial organization, banking, advertising, selling, office and factory records, cost keeping, systematizing, etc.\n\nIn the 1905 Griffith published his first work, entitled \"Systematizing.\" A 1907 review explained, that the demand for trained systematizers - men who have learned the science of business organization - is far greater that the supply. Such men experience no difficulty in securing lucrative positions, while those who engage in the work professionally soon attract as many clients as they can successfully serve.\n\nFurthermore, the review claimed that systematizing can be learned by means of the \"course\" in \"systematizing\" under personal direction of J.B. Griffith, who with the assistance of some experts, perfected the only practical plan of teaching systematizing and business organization offered by any institution. No other educational organization is prepared to offer such thorough instruction in the subjects embraced in this course. Like other business subjects, the only practical way to learn systematizing is by actual practice — actually systematizing a business - and that explains the success of the course.\n\nIn the 1905 \"Systematizing\" Griffith (1905) opened with stating that, before we can intelligently take up the study of system, we must first consider what the term means. According to Griffith, the term system as applied to business is: \n\nGriffith continued that, the key note of system is economy. A perfect system handles the details in a given department with the least possible labor. It unites the plan for handling these details into a harmonious whole for the quick and economical conduct of that particular department. The systems for conducting the various departments must in turn be united into a plan for the operation of the entire concern.\n\nThe result, according to Griffith, is a thoroughly systematized business—a complete machine—in which every department is operated and each detail handled without friction and with the smallest possible expenditure if time labour and expense.\n\nA really systematic organization, according to Griffith (1905), is one in which all of the departments work in harmony; in which every person in the establishment for the Executive head down, conforms to and performs his part of the work according to the system laid down. As applied to business concerns, the idea is best illustrated by a chart. Griffith explained:\n\nAt the end of the first chapter a chart is presented of a business organization (see image), which has similarities with both an organizational chart and mind map. The charts building blocks mention both business function (executive), departments (Mfg. Dept.; Selling Dept.; Accounting Dept.; etc.), records (Purchase Records; Sales Ledger; etc.), business activities (Time Keeping; Cost Accounting; etc.), and cost accounting classes (Labour Direct; Labour Indirect; etc.). In a similar way organization departments had been pictured by Griffith, such as the Purchasing Department, Stock Department and Advertising Department (see below).\n\nThe presentation of these kind of preliminary organizational charts was rather rare in those days. The work itself has similarities with the series of system charts, Horace Lucian Arnold had published two years earlier in his 1903 \"The Factory manager and accountant.\"\n\nIt is remarkable, that these diagrams were also not republished in Griffith's later works. Griffith did develop the concept into a single chart of the Duties, Responsibilities and Authorities of Department Heads (see image), which was first published in Griffith's \"Administrative and industrial organization\" (1909), and republished in the 1910 \"Cyclopedia of Commerce, Accountancy, Business Administration,\"\n\nDespite these efforts to introduce these visual aids, they didn't become that popular yet. In the 1920s a survey revealed that organizational charts were still not common among ordinary business concerns, but they were beginning to find their way into administrative and business enterprises.\n\nAnother feature Griffith demonstrated in his work \"Systematizing\" and later works is the charting of factory layout and routing. In \"Systematizing\" he gave one example in the third section about \"The Stock Department,\" where as example he illustrated two arrangements, or routing diagrams, for handling lumber:\n\nGriffith explained, that the arrangement of the stock should be such that all unnecessary handling will be avoided. The references in Section Whether it be the store house of a country store or the supply room of an immense factory, the stock most often required should be placed where it can be readily removed, while that seldom called for may be stored in the more inaccessible corners. Where the concern is large enough to require several storage places, these storage places for the different classes of stock should be located with special reference to the departments in which the stock is used.\n\nSuppose the location of lumber yard, dry kiln, lumber shed and factory to be such as shown in Fig. I. Note How the lumber must travel back and forth, crossing the same space three times. Compare this with the arrangement shown in Fig. II.The lumber is taken the shortest possible distance and never goes over the same ground twice. Where buildings have been permanently located it may not be possible to change the general plan, but improvements can be made in nearly all cases. Take the plan in Fig. I: If the lumber yard was located immediately back of the dry kiln, at least 25 per cent of the labor of handling the lumber would be saved. The plans which we have shown illustrate examples of good and bad system in the location of one class of stock.\n\nThe layout and routing of a typical manufacturing plant are often more complex, see for example figure III, but the principles remain the same.\nIn \"Systematizing\" Griffith showed to be a proponent of documenting policies and procedures. He argued:\n\nAs to the form that an order should take, the only satisfactory form is the written order ... If the request is in writing neither [the sender nor the recipient] is obliged to depend on his memory. The written order removes all chance of dispute as to its conditions, neither can there be a question of the authority of an order which bears the signature of the head of a department ... Another great advantage of the written order is that the head of a department may keep copies and follow-up each order to see that it is properly executed.\n\nYates (1988) commented that \"the written order, whether to an individual or to the whole company, became part of organizational memory rather than just individual memory. It was then available for whatever future needs might arise.\"\n\nThe tenth section of \"Systematizing\" focussed on manufacturing costs. Griffith started explaining that a cost system in any manufacturing plant is a necessity, yet in those days there were many manufacturers who hadn't discover its importance. With cost systems Griffith meant a system by means of which the actual costs of manufacturing the product can be accurately determined.\n\nAt the end of the chapter Griffith present a chart of manufacturing cost (see image). This chart is a graphic illustration of the items which enter into the cost of manufacture, the manner in which these items are obtained and, finally, brought together in a permanent form. Griffith commented, that \"a study of this chart will enable the student to outline a general plan for a cost system suited to the needs of his particular factory. When the general principles of the cost finding system are understood, it becomes merely a matter of detail to apply those principles to individual factories.\"\nIn 1909 Griffith edited his first book series, entitled \"Accountancy and business management.\" This book series was published in seven volumes and was prepared by a corps of auditors, accountants, attorneys, and specialists in business methods and management, and illustrated with over fifteen hundred engravings. The second edition was published 1921 by the American Technical Society in Chicago.\n\nThe table of contents of \"Accountancy and business management\" was:\n\nGriffith had written several section such as the first chapter on \"business organization and control\", in 1909 also published under the title \"Administrative and industrial organization.\" Another chapter by Griffith, entitled \"the voucher system and accounting charts,\" was in 1917 republished as \"Corporation Accounts and Voucher System.\"\n\nGriffith also wrote the section on \"Purchasing and stores\" co-authored with W. J. Graham, and the section on \"Credits.\" A significant part of the co-authors and collaborators also participated in the 1910 \"Cyclopedia of Commerce, Accountancy, Business Administration.\" Furthermore also a significant part of the content, and almost all illustrations were used in that 1910 business encyclopedia.\n\nIn the article \"business organization and control\" in \"Accountancy and business management,\" (1909) Griffith argued, that the segregation of authority is an universal principles of organization. This purpose of segregation of authority is to simplify, as Charles Edward Knoeppel (1908) had argued:\n\nWhile business as it is now conducted is not as simple as it was in the barter days, it must not be inferred that this segregation of authority is synonymous with complexity, for its very purpose has been to simplify, and that is what it has accomplished. It is only where this segregation has been the result of lack of thought and proper attention, or other like causes, that we find a complex and unsatisfactory condition of affairs. In fact, there is all about us sufficient evidence that many commercial enterprises are being conducted along lines that, as far as evolutional development is concerned, are several stages behind the times.\n\nGriffith in the \"Cyclopedia of Commerce, Accountancy, Business Administration\" (1910) commented, that \"when we go into all of the ramifications of business we find many establishments where minor variations of our plan of organization appear necessary, but in the final analysis, the fundamentals prove to be the same.\" The working authorities in a manufacturing Business and in a trading Business follow a same scheme (see images).\n\n<gallery caption=\"Segregation of authority, 1908/10\" widths= 240 heights=400 class=center>\nFile:A Chart of Working Authorities in a Manufacturing Business, 1910.jpg|alt=Chart of Working Authorities in a Manufacturing Business|Working Authorities in a Manufacturing Business\nFile:Chart of Working Authorities in a Trading Business, 1910.jpg|alt=Chart of Working Authorities in a Trading Business|Working Authorities in a Trading Business\n</gallery>\n\nIn 1910 the American School of Correspondence published the \"Cyclopedia of Commerce, Accountancy, Business Administration,\" and Griffith had been managing editor. Other authors and collaborators of this work were Robert Hiester Montgomery, Arthur Lowes Dickinson, William M. Lybrand of Coopers & Lybrand, Oscar E. Perrigo and Halbert Powers Gillette. Among the authorities consulted were Horace Lucian Arnold, Charles Buxton Going, Lawrence R. Dicksee, Francis W. Pixley, Charles U. Carpenter, Charles Edward Knoeppel, Harrington Emerson, Clinton Edgar Woods, Charles Ezra Sprague and Charles Waldo Haskins.\n\nA 1913 review in the \"Journal of Political Economy,\" commented that this treatise evidently aims to give a complete review of the entire field of accounting. The volumes start out with a discussion of the theory of accounts, and then proceed to show the methods of keeping the books of various kinds of organizations, from single proprietors to corporations, and of different kinds of businesses, including wholesale and retail establishments, banks, mail-order houses, hotels, insurance companies, and contracting firms.\n\nThe 1913 review continued, that to one who is familiar with accounting practice, the books contain much suggestive material. Unfortunately the data are poorly organized and there is unnecessary repetition both in text and in illustrative material. The discussion of the theory of accounts is hardly more than an exposition of bookkeeping terminology. The last volume contains a number of \"Practical Accounting Problems and Solutions.\" The compilers of the cyclopedia were unfortunate in picking some of their solutions, notably to Problems 49 and 50. These two solutions appear in the volume of a well-known writer' and are incorrect. Incidentally, the editor of the set neglects to give credit to the author of the solutions, either in a footnote or in the list of \"Authorities Consulted.\" This part of the work would also have been materially improved if solutions for Problems 30 to 47 had been given. The review ends with the remark, that from a mechanical point of view the books are excellent; the half-tone illustrations are especially good and are well selected.\n\nIn his days the work of Griffith was occasionally placed inline with the work of Frederick Winslow Taylor, Harrington Emerson, and Henry L. Gantt.\nIn the 1975 article \"Who is who in accounting in 1909\" the accounting historian Williard E. Stone listed Griffith among the foremost authors and collaborators in the field in the year 1909. More in general he explained:\n\nThe early 1900s were a Horacio Alger time when self improvement, particularly in business knowledge, was a way of life for aspiring people. A large number of business encyclopedias enjoyed a wide distribution. One such compendium, \"Accountancy and Business Management,\" modest subtitle 'A General Reference. Work on Bookkeeping, Accounting, Auditing, Commercial Law, Business Organization, Business Management, Banking, Advertising, Selling, Office and Factory Records, Cost Keeping, Systematizing, etc.,' offered the complete 'body of knowledge' for the young business person in seven small volumes ...\n\nOf the twenty-one authors and collaborators in the field of accounting, listed by Stone (1975), only eight of them were actually accountants.\n\n\n This article incorporates public domain material from: Griffith, James Bray (ed.). \"Systematizing.\" International Accountants' Society, inc., 1905; and from some other pd-sources listed.\n\n"}
{"id": "16350279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16350279", "title": "Jean-Pierre De Bandt", "text": "Jean-Pierre De Bandt\n\nBaron Jean-Pierre de Bandt (born Antwerp, 23 January 1934) is a Belgian lawyer and was the President of the Coudenberg group, a Belgian federalist think tank.\n\nFrom 1951 until 1953, he studied at the Facultés universitaires Notre-Dame de la Paix (FUNDP) after which he graduated as\n\nHe started his career in 1961 as a member of the Antwerp Bar (1956) then joined the American law firm Frank Boas Law Office in 1961 in Brussels, to become a partner in 1966.\n\nHe was also lecturer at the Hoger Instituut voor Bestuurswetenschappen (University of Antwerp) (1962 - 1972)\n\nHe started his own law firm on July 1, 1969. He was during 20 years Chairman and Managing Partner of what became De Bandt, van Hecke & Lagae. It was the first law firm in Belgium organized along the structure and lines of law partnerships in the United States and Great-Britain. (partnership, full integration of revenues, special status of associates moving to partnership etc.)\n\nThe firm merged in 1999 with the Luxemburg firm Loesch & Wolter to become De Bandt, van Hecke, Lagae & Loesch and finally merged in 2002 with the London city firm Linklaters & Paines to become De Bandt & Linklaters. de Bandt became senior counsel of the merged firm.\n\nAt the time of the merger with Linklaters, De Bandt van Hecke & Lagae was the largest firm of solicitors (\"avocats-advocaten\") in Belgium, with more than 200 full-time lawyers.\n\nPierre de Bandt focuses on Belgian and European regulatory law (e.g. competition, free movement and regulated sectors) and Belgian commercial law. He is a member of the bar of Brussels.\n\nDe Bandt was director of several commercial companies and was chairman of the Board of:\n\n\nHe was the founder and chairman of a large civic society \"The Coudenberg Group\" and the \"Interuniversity Center for the study of Federalism\" (1984-1998), both centered on the institutional future of Belgium.\n\nHe was chairman of two foundations at the University of Namur: \n\nFurther he was:\n\nHe is a director of the Poelaert Foundation which aims at promoting a full renovation of the Palace of Justice in Brussels, called Poelaert by the name of its architect, which at the time of its inauguration (1886) was considered as the largest building in the world and is one of the architectural masterpieces of the late 19th century.\n\n\nIn addition to many legal articles on business law and constitutional law, he published a series of books:\n\n"}
{"id": "27658893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27658893", "title": "John Henning (1771–1851)", "text": "John Henning (1771–1851)\n\nJohn Henning (2 May 1771 – 8 April 1851) was a Scottish carpenter who turned to sculpturing. His masterpieces were the one-twentieth-scale models he created of the Parthenon and Bassae friezes. These took him twelve years to complete. He failed to gain a copyright on this work and others profited by copying his work.\n\nHenning was born in Paisley and became a carpenter like his father. He was noted for his ability as a sculptor when he created cameos of his friends and family. After marrying Catherine Sunter when aged 28 and encouraged by his early cameos he went into business in Glasgow and then Edinburgh attracting clients that included Sir Walter Scott. Josiah Wedgwood was impressed by his work and agreed to champion them for Henning.\n\nIn 1811, John and Catherine moved to London where Henning saw the newly arrived Elgin Marbles in Burlington House and persuaded Lord Elgin to allow him to draw and copy them. It was said that a commission from Princess Charlotte of a portrait medallion inspired Henning to realise that he could use his drawings to create slate moulds that could be used to reproduce the friezes in miniature. Henning also took advantage of his sittings with the Princess to introduce her to more radical reading. This task was to last twelve years although Henning decided to also add the Bassae frieze to his work, and this did not arrive in England until a few years into his work. One miniature version of the Parthenon frieze was just two inches high, but over twenty four feet long.\n\nBy 1820, Henning was ready to sell his work and it was obvious that he had not copied the remains of the friezes, but recreated them. In the case of the Parthenon frieze he had used drawings taken by William Pars in 1765, the drawings commissioned from Feodor Ivanowitsch by Lord Elgin before they were moved to England and importantly drawings made by Jacques Carrey. The last drawings were not the most detailed, but importantly they were made thirteen years before the explosion that had damaged the Parthenon in 1687.\n\nOne copy of the miniature Parthenon frieze was sold to William IV for £42 in 1821 but its location is not known. He failed to gain a copyright on this work and others profited by making copies. Very few original copies of these miniatures are known to exist.\n\nIn 1827, Henning and his son created sculptures in the style of the Parthenon frieze for a screen erected at Hyde Park Gate in London. The following year, John Jr. confirmed that he would recreate a copy of the Parthenon frieze for London's Athenaeum Club. Although only just over half the length of the 524 feet long original this model was at the correct scale and was constructed from Bath stone in agreement with Decimus Burton, the club's architect.\n\nHenning also made half-scale models which he hoped to reproduce for more modest buildings. Henning found that they were very popular but the business was captured across Europe by others who had unauthorised copies of his work. Equally distressing to Henning was the low quality of some of the copies. Because of this Henning became a supporter of the emerging laws on copyright but also was unhappy that his success was going unrewarded.\n\nIn 1845, Henning again invested his time based around the friezes. This time he intended to recreate the two friezes as engravings. Trial proofs were made but unfortunately his partner in the enterprise, Alfred Robert Freebairn (1794–1846), died before either of the works were completed.\nHenning died on 8 April 1851, two years after his wife. He was buried as a pauper in Finchley Churchyard.\n\nHenning's original slate models were obtained by the British Museum in 1938. The Athenaeum Club and the screen at Hyde Park are extant. Copies of Henning's work are still being discovered. Another son Archibald Skirving Henning became an artist and he has a few paintings in public collections in the United Kingdom. He died aged 59 in Manchester in 1864. He had the same name as the Scottish painter Archibald Skirving.\n"}
{"id": "46629391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46629391", "title": "Joseph A. McCahery", "text": "Joseph A. McCahery\n\nJoseph Aloysius McCahery is an academic researcher, corporate lawyer and institutional adviser. McCahery is most notable for his contribution in corporate finance and law, European business law, financial markets and banking regulations, the political economy of federalism and taxation.\n\nAs of 2015, McCahery is a professor of International Economic Law and the Financial Market Regulation at Tilburg University. As of the same year, McCahery is a director of the LLM Program at the Duisenberg School of Finance. During his career McCahery had served as a legal consultant for the Center for European Policy Studies, Monitoring Committee Corporate Governance, The Netherlands Ministry of Finance and OECD,\n\nMcCahery received his B.A. at the University of Michigan in 1985. Upon completion of his bachelor's degree, McCahery obtained J.D. at the City University of New York at Queens College in May 1988. From 1991 till 1992, McCahery attended Oxford University the Faculty of Law and Centre for Socio-Legal Studies. In 1998 McCahery received his Ph.D. in Law at University of Warwick. His earliest publication was on the regulatory competition, economic regulation and law.\n\nMcCahery began his legal practice career in 1985 as a law clerk at the Winthrop Stimson Putnam & Roberts. In 1988 he worked as a summer associate for Meagher & Flom in New York. From 1988 till 1989 he worked as a judicial clerk at the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, Cincinnati, Ohio.\n\nIn 1989, McCahery started his academic career as a visiting lecturer at the Warwick University in England. In 1992 he became the full-time lecturer. In 1997 he started working as an associate professor in Private Law and Center for Law at Tilburg University in Netherlands. From 1998 till 2002, McCahery worked as a visiting faculty at the LLM Program at Leiden University.\n\nIn 2002 he resumed his career at the Tilburg University as a professor of international business law. From 2005 he worked as professor of corporate governance and innovation at the University of Amsterdam. He began his career at Duisenberg School of Finance in 2008, where he offers lectures to MSc students in M&A law and transactions, hedge funds and investment management regulation. In 2000, McCahery was awarded a prize for one of the best corporate and securities articles of the year.\n\nMcCahery had contributed to the literature on cross-border tax cooperation, effects of the corporate federalism, limitations of the corporate governance principles. McCahery is most notable for his research on topics of institutional investment principles, studies of M&A waves and investment funds regulations. His recent works on corporate governance principles has been dedicated to the analysis of the contractual formations of the venture capital companies and early stage investment general partnership firms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "459885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459885", "title": "Key Tower", "text": "Key Tower\n\nKey Tower is a skyscraper on Public Square in downtown Cleveland, Ohio. Designed by architect César Pelli, it is the tallest building in the state of Ohio, the 26th-tallest in the United States, and the 165th-tallest in the world. The building reaches 57 stories or to the top of its spire, and it is visible from up to away. The tower contains about 1.5 million square feet (139,355 m²) of office space.\n\nKey Tower's anchor tenant is KeyCorp, a major regional financial services firm. On the top floor is a boutique intellectual property firm Amin, Turocy & Watson, LLP. In 2014 the law firm of BakerHostetler announced that it would move its headquarters to the building, taking up several floors being vacated by KeyCorp. The international law firm Squire Patton Boggs is headquartered here and a major tenant. It is also headquarters to Dan T. Moore Companies, located on the 27th floor. Key Tower is connected to the Marriott at Key Center, built in conjunction with the tower, and the older Society for Savings Building. It is the tallest building between Philadelphia and Chicago. It is also the tallest building in the Midwest United States outside of Chicago.\n\nOn January 1st, 2017 The Millennia Companies purchased Key Center, including Key Tower, Marriott at Key Center, Society for Savings Building, and the underground Memorial Plaza Garage. The purchase price was $267.5 million.\n\nIt was originally built as the Society Center and was the headquarters for Cleveland-based Society Corporation. Society had recently acquired Cleveland Trust and canceled Cleveland Trust's plans for an even taller building on Public Square. Its opening ended the Terminal Tower's reign as the tallest building in Ohio.\n\nIt was renamed Key Tower after Society merged with KeyCorp and took the KeyCorp name. Indeed, it was decided to make Cleveland the headquarters for the new KeyCorp because it was felt the then-Society Center was more commensurate with the merged bank's status as a major bank. Pelli originally intended its design for the Norwest Center in Minneapolis, but a late change to the site led to Pelli designing a new tower for it.\n\nKey Tower was developed by the Richard E. Jacobs Group.\n\nWhen Society Center was completed in 1991 by Turner Construction Company, it became the tallest building between Chicago and New York City. The Comcast Center in Philadelphia assumed this distinction in 2007. The Chamber of Commerce Building stood on the tower's site from 1898 to 1955.\n\n\"F-111\", James Rosenquist's large pop art painting, hung in the tower's lobby until building owner Richard Jacobs sold it to the Museum of Modern Art in 1996. He replaced it in 1998 with \"Songs for Sale\", a mural by artist David Salle. In October 2005, Key Bank installed four long illuminated logos at the base of the tower's crowning pyramid. Each sign weighs .\n\nA smaller-scale building was proposed by Pelli to be built in Hartford, Connecticut during the late 1980s, but the plan was ultimately canceled.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30104465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30104465", "title": "Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "Kuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nKuwait Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) () is a non-government institution representing business establishments in Kuwait. The Chamber acts on the behalf of, represents and lobbies for the interests of businesspersons and industrialists in Kuwait.\n\nThe establishment of a Chamber of Commerce was first mooted in 1952. Three years later in 1955 the Chamber was established and in 1959, the election of the Chamber’s first Board of Directors took place.\n\nKCCI is a truly democratic organisation. The members of the Board of Directors are all elected and its leading figures are known for their contribution to industry and business.During that time, the hearts of the citizens were ready to comprehend every nice and great achievement. The KCCI growth kept in line with the country’s growth and luxury.\n\nKCCI is a non-profit, self-financed private institution. Currently the registered members exceeds 79000 and represents the general assembly. The general assembly elects 24 members for the Board of Directors for a period of 4 years, half of whom are elected every two years.\nSubscriptions and authentication fees are the main resources of income. The President and the Board Members are considered volunteers for public services. The Chamber is a consultative entity in all economic affairs.\n\nThere are seven branches for KCCI\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1125669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1125669", "title": "Labor rights", "text": "Labor rights\n\nLabor rights or workers' rights are a group of legal rights and claimed human rights having to do with labor relations between workers and their employers, usually obtained under labor and employment law. In general, these rights' debates have to do with negotiating workers' pay, benefits, and safe working conditions. One of the most central of these rights is the right to unionize. Unions take advantage of collective bargaining and industrial action to increase their members' wages and otherwise change their working situation. Labor rights can also take in the form of worker's control and worker's self management in which workers have a democratic voice in decision and policy making. The labor movement initially focused on this \"right to unionize\", but attention has shifted elsewhere.\n\nCritics of the labor rights movement claim that regulation promoted by labor rights activists may limit opportunities for work. In the United States, critics objected to unions establishing closed shops, situations where employers could only hire union members. The Taft–Hartley Act banned the closed shop but allowed the less restrictive union shop. Taft–Hartley also allowed states to pass right-to-work laws, which require an open shop where a worker's employment is not affected by his or her union membership. Labor counters that the open shop leads to a free rider problem.\n\nThroughout history, workers claiming some sort of right have attempted to pursue their interests. During the Middle Ages, the Peasants' Revolt in England expressed demand for better wages and working conditions. One of the leaders of the revolt, John Ball famously argued that people were born equal saying, \"When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?\" Laborers often appealed to traditional rights. For instance, English peasants fought against the enclosure movement, which took traditionally communal lands and made them private.\n\nIn England 1833, a law was passed saying that any child under the age of 9 could not work, children age 9-13 could only work 8 hours a day, and children aged 14–18 could only work 12 hours a day.\n\nLabor rights are a relatively new addition to the modern corpus of human rights. The modern concept of labor rights dates to the 19th century after the creation of labor unions following the industrialization processes. Karl Marx stands out as one of the earliest and most prominent advocates for workers rights. His philosophy and economic theory focused on labor issues and advocates his economic system of socialism, a society which would be ruled by the workers. Many of the social movements for the rights of the workers were associated with groups influenced by Marx such as the socialists and communists. More moderate democratic socialists and social democrats supported worker's interests as well. More recent workers rights advocacy has focused on the particular role, exploitation, and needs of women workers, and of increasingly mobile global flows of casual, service, or guest workers.\n\nThe International Labour Organization (ILO) was formed in 1919 as part of the League of Nations to protect worker's rights. The ILO later became incorporated into the United Nations. The UN itself backed workers rights by incorporating several into two articles of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, which is the basis of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (article 6-8). These read:\n\n\n\nThe ILO and several other groups have sought international labor standards to create legal rights for workers across the world. Recent movements have also been made to encourage countries to promote labor rights at the international level through fair trade.\n\nIdentified by the ILO in the ‘Declaration of the Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work’, core labor standards are “widely recognized to be of particular importance”. They are universally applicable, regardless of whether the relevant conventions have been ratified, the level of development of a country or cultural values. These standards are composed of qualitative, not quantitative standards and don’t establish a particular level of working conditions, wages or health and safety standards. They are not intended to undermine the comparative advantage that developing countries may hold. Core labor standards are important human rights and are recognized in widely ratified international human rights instruments including the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CROC), the most widely ratified human rights treaty with 193 parties, and the ICCPR with 160 parties.\n\nThe core labor standards are:\n\nVery few ILO member countries have ratified all of these conventions due to domestic constraints yet as these rights are also recognised in the UDHR, and form a part of customary international law they are committed to respect these rights. For a discussion on the incorporation of these core labor rights into the mechanisms of the World Trade Organization, see The Recognition of Labour Standards within the World Trade Organisation. There are many other issues outside of this core, in the UK employee rights includes the right to employment particulars, an itemised pay statement, a disciplinary process at which they have the right to be accompanied, daily breaks, rest breaks, paid holidays and more.\n\nAside from the right to organize, labor movements have campaigned on various other issues that may be said to relate to labor rights.\n\nMany labor movement campaigns have to do with limiting hours in the work place. 19th century labor movements campaigned for an Eight-hour day. Worker advocacy groups have also sought to limit work hours, making a working week of 40 hours or less standard in many countries. A 35-hour workweek was established in France in 2000, although this standard has been considerably weakened since then. Workers may agree with employers to work for longer, but the extra hours are payable overtime. In the European Union the working week is limited to a maximum of 48 hours \"including\" overtime (see also Working Time Directive).\n\nLabor rights advocates have also worked to combat child labor. They see child labor as exploitative, cruel, and often economically damaging. Child labor opponents often argue that working children are deprived of an education. In 1948 and then again in 1989, the United Nations declared that children have a right to social protection. In 2007, Massachusetts updated their child labor laws that required all minors to have work permits.\n\nLabor rights advocates have worked to improve workplace conditions which meet established standards. During the Progressive Era, the United States began workplace reforms, which received publicity boosts from Upton Sinclair's \"The Jungle\" and events such as the 1911 Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire. Labor advocates and other groups often criticize production facilities with poor working conditions as sweatshops and occupational health hazards, and campaign for better labor practices and recognition of workers rights throughout the world.\n\nRecent initiatives in the field of sustainability have included a focus on social sustainability, which includes promoting workers' rights and safe working conditions, prevention of human trafficking, and elimination of illegal child labor from the sustainably sourced products and services. Organizations such as the U.S. Department of Labor and Department of State have released studies on products that have been identified as using child labor and industries using or funded by human trafficking. Labor rights are defined internationally by sources such as the Norwegian Agency for Public Management and eGovernment (DIFI) and the International Finance Corporation performance standards.\n\nThe labor movement pushes for guaranteed minimum wage laws, and there are continuing negotiations about increases to the minimum wage. However, opponents see minimum wage laws as limiting employment opportunities for unskilled and entry level workers.\n\nLegal migrant workers are sometimes abused. For instance, migrants have faced a number of alleged abuses in the United Arab Emirates (including Dubai). Human Rights Watch lists several problems including \"nonpayment of wages, extended working hours without overtime compensation, unsafe working environments resulting in death and injury, squalid living conditions in labor camps, and withholding of passports and travel documents by employers.\" Despite laws against the practice, employers confiscate migrant workers' passports. Without their passports, workers cannot switch jobs or return home.\nThese workers have little recourse for labor abuses, but conditions have been improving. Labor and social welfare minister Ali bin Abdullah al-Kaabi has undertaken a number of reforms to help improve labor practices in his country.\n\nThe right to equal treatment, regardless of gender, origin and appearance, religion, sexual orientation, is also seen by many as a worker's right. Discrimination in the work place is illegal in many countries, but some see the wage gap between genders and other groups as a persistent problem.\n\nThe National Labor Relations Act recognizes undocumented laborers as employees. However, the supreme court case Hoffman Plastic Compounds Inc. Vs. NLRB established that backpay could not be awarded to unlawfully fired undocumented employees due to the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986. In this court decision, it was also stated that the U.S. would support FLSA and MSPA, without regard to whether or not someone is documented. Undocumented workers also still have legal protection against discrimination based on national origin. The decision of the Hoffman supreme court case primarily has affected undocumented laborers by preventing them from getting backpay and/or reinstatement.\n\nWhile no undocumented individual is technically able to work in the United States legally, undocumented folks make up 5% of the workforce. In the U.S., people who were born outside of the country tend to work in riskier jobs and have a higher chance of encountering death on the job. The low wage sectors, which many undocumented folks work in, have the highest rates of wage and hour violation. Estimates claim that 31% of undocumented people work in service jobs. Restaurant work in particular has a 12% rate of undocumented workers.\n\nUndocumented people can and have joined labor unions, and are even credited by a 2008 dissertation for \"reinvigorating\" the labor movement. Because the NLRA protects undocumented workers, it protects their right to organize. However the NLRA excludes workers that are agricultural, domestic, independent contractors, governmental, or related to their employers. The right to speak up against labor abuses was protected further by an immigration reform bill in 2013 with the POWER act, which intended to protect employees who spoke out against labor practices from facing detention or deportation.\n\nHowever, labor unions are not necessarily welcoming of immigrant workers. Within unions, there have been internal struggles, such as when Los Angeles immigrant janitors reorganized service workers. Being a part of the union does not necessarily address all the needs of immigrant workers, and thus wining power within the union is the first step for immigrant workers to address their needs.\n\nImmigrant workers often mobilize beyond unions, by campaigning in their communities on intersectional issues of immigration, discrimination, and police misconduct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40789670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40789670", "title": "McGavock Family Cemetery", "text": "McGavock Family Cemetery\n\nMcGavock Family Cemetery is a historic family cemetery located near Fort Chiswell, Wythe County, Virginia. It is located on a hill above The Mansion at Fort Chiswell. The cemetery includes approximately about 15 Germanic sandstone monuments dating from 1812 to the late-1830s.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n"}
{"id": "55886559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55886559", "title": "Michael Ringier", "text": "Michael Ringier\n\nMichael Ringier (born 30 March, 1949 in Zofingen) is a Swiss publisher.\n\nHis parents are Hans and Eva Ringier (born Landolt). Ringier attended the University of St. Gallen from 1970 to 1972. In 1973, he began to work as a journalist for the Münchner Abendzeitung. After attending courses at a journalism school and editorial stations in his family's media company, Ringier completed a trainee program at Heinrich Bauer Verlag in Hamburg in 1976/77. He then worked for the business editorial staff of the Stern and conceived (also for Gruner + Jahr) the magazin impulse. In the Cologne editorial department, he headed the department of \"Business Administration and Business\" from 1980 onwards.\n\nRingier is married to the law graduate Ellen Ringier (born Lüthy) and has two adopted daughters. Ringier is considered a proven art collector with a collection of more than 4,000 works of contemporary art and lives in a modern villa on Lake Zurich. He likes to spend his holidays in his holiday home in Engadin. Ringier likes to jog and is a passionate tennis and golf player.\n\nIn 1983, he returned to Switzerland, where he took over the responsibility for New Media and the German market in the Ringier AG. In 1985, Michael Ringier was CEO of Ringier AG. In 1991, as Chairman of the Board of Directors, he took over sole responsibility for the company. In 1997, he resigned as Chairman of the Board and took over the operational leadership of Ringier AG, as delegate of the board of directors. He also took over publishing management of the publisher. In 2003, Ringier became Chairman of Ringier Holding AG.\n\n"}
{"id": "1167681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1167681", "title": "Miguel Ruiz (businessman)", "text": "Miguel Ruiz (businessman)\n\nMiguel Ruiz (1856–1912) founded a coffee processing company which would later become \"Jimenez & Fernandez, Sucrs, Inc.\" the makers of \"Café Yaucono\".\n\nRuiz, a native of San Juan, Puerto Rico, began working in the coffee industry at a young age. His interest in that sector of agriculture led him to establish a small coffee processing company in Miramar, a section of San Juan. In 1896, Ruiz started elaborating coffee using rudimentary equipment. His small operation started to grow and he soon sent for his cousin-in-law, Tiburio Jiménez, who lived in Spain. In 1911, Jiménez went to work and immediately, he too fell in love with the coffee industry. In 1912, tragedy befell upon the family and Miguel Ruiz died. He left the company in the hands of his family and Jimenez.\n\nTomas Prado, from Yauco was the owner of \"The Coffee Co.\" and in 1914, created the coffee brand \"Cafe Yaucono\". Jiménez became interested in the brand and soon began negotiations with Prado with the intention of buying him out. In 1916, Prado sold \"The Coffee Co.\" and its brand \"Yaucono\" to the heirs of Migul Ruiz. In 1917, the Ruiz family sold the company and Jiménez quit the company. Soon afterwards, Jiménez started his own company with Juan Fernández which they named \"Jiménez & Fernandez, Sucrs.\".\n\nIn 1921, the company, which was incorporated and renamed \"Jimenez & Fernandez, Sucrs, Inc.\", bought a lot in the Fernández Juncos Ave. and built a two-story building. The company operated in the first floor and the Jiménez family lived in the second floor. Jiménez married and had three children, among them José Enrique Jiménez.\n\nIn 1931, Juan Fernández sold his part of the company to Jiménez. During this period the company was faced with limitations and hardships. The Great Depression, hurricanes and World War II almost completely bankrupted the entire coffee industry in Puerto Rico. Jiménez was forced to close his company on two occasions during this time.\n\nWhen Jiménez reopened the company, the demand for coffee was so great that its sales soared. In 1957, Tiburcio's son José Enrique, began to work for \"Yaucono\" and in 1960, he was named Manager of the Sales and Marketing departments. José Enrique started a strong advertising campaign and in 1963 introduced the \"Cafe Yaucono\" character \"Mama Inés\", becoming one of the biggest marketing symbols in Puerto Rican history. In 1965, José Enrique was named president and CEO of the company.\n\nIn 1985, \"Café Yaucono\" received the highest award from the Puerto Rico Product Association, the \"International Award for Quality\". In 1996, \"Cafe Yaucono\" received the \"Commercial Prestige Award\" from Spain. \"Cafe Yaucono\" controls 40% of the coffee market in Puerto Rico.\n\nMiguel Ruiz died in San Juan, Puerto Rico in 1912 and Tiburcio Jiménez died in 1975 in the same city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25309376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25309376", "title": "OCEAN Design Research Association", "text": "OCEAN Design Research Association\n\nOCEAN Design Research Association focuses on interdisciplinary research by design in the intersection between architecture, urban- and landscape design, industrial design, and a variety of related creative disciplines. The not-for-profit association is registered in Norway.\n\nIn 1994 OCEAN was founded by Michael Ulrich Hensel, Ulrich Königs, Tom Verebes and Bostjan Vuga as a think-tank for experimental design in architecture located in London. In 1995 the group expanded into a network with groups in Cologne, Helsinki, London, Ljubljana and Oslo. In 1998 the groups in Cologne, Helsinki and Oslo fused and operated under the name OCEAN NORTH until 2006. During the same year the revision of the network and its expansion began. In result OCEAN was renamed and restructured as an independent and not-for-profit design research association registered in Norway in 2008.\n\nToday OCEAN conducts a wide scope of research by design, bringing together the disciplines of architecture, urban and landscape design, industrial and product design, engineering, biology, ecology, micro-climatology and musical composition. The objective of the association is to initiate, undertake, promote and host collaboration in design research with the aim for improve the built environment and anthroposphere, by means of developing and exploring new paradigms to design that are heterogeneous, performative, context-specific, and culturally, socially and environmentally sustainable. The network is active in the intersection between practice, research and education.\n\nCurrent research areas include Architecture and Biology, Assembly Buildings, Auxiliary Architectures, Computational Design and Augmented Reality, Grounds and Envelopes, Matter and Energy Interaction, Performance-oriented Design, Systems Oriented Design, Research by Design, Systems-oriented Design, and Sound Environments.\n\nThe work of OCEAN has been published and exhibited widely, including the Venice Biennale of Architecture 2002 and 2004, and the Beijing Architectural Biennale 2008. Among its best known work to date is the ‘World Centre for Human Concerns’ designed for the exhibition ‘A New World Trade Centre’, exhibited at the Max Protetch Gallery in New York, the American Pavilion at the Venice Biennale of Architecture 2002 and the German Museum of Architecture. The scheme for a 'World Center for Human Concerns' pointed towards a new institution that could provide representation to all people above and beyond nation-state representation. The intention was to project a forum for political processes, with the aim to overcome violent conflict in result of the existence of multiple forms of acceptable representation.\n\nOCEAN members:\nDr. Natasha Barrett\nProf. Guillem Baraut Bover\nDr. Richard Bonser\nChristina Doumpioti\nHülya Ertaş\nIsak Worre Foged \nProf. Dr. Michael Ulrich Hensel- Founding and current Chairman \nProf. Christian Hermansen\nDr. Pavel Hladik\nJoakim Hoen\nNathaniel Kolbe\nTom Lea\nProf. Dr. Andrew Morrisson\nProf. Dr. Frederik Nilsson\nDr. Janne Reitan\nDr. Jonas Runberger\nProf. Dr. Birger Ragnvald Sevaldson- Current Secretary\nProf. Søren Sørensen\nDefne Sunguroğlu Hensel\nJeffrey P. Turko - Current Vice-Chairman\n\nOCEAN Honorary members:\nProf. Mark Burry\nProf. Emeritus Dr. George Jeronimidis \nProf. Dr. Jolly Monge\nProf. Dr. Harold Nelson\nProf. Dr. Tevfik Balcıoğlu\n\n"}
{"id": "58076742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58076742", "title": "Robert Gumede", "text": "Robert Gumede\n\nRobert Gumede (born 9 August 1963) is a South African businessman and philanthropist. He is the founder of the IT firm Gijima Technologies and its holding company Gijima Group.\n\nRobert Gumede was one of seven children raised by his mother and grandmother in the town of Nelspruit, South Africa. He worked at as golf caddie, gardener and a petrol attendant to help support his family in his youth. He went on to study law at the University of Zululand, graduating in 1986 with a diploma in law. After graduating he worked as a clerk and prosecutor at the Kabokweni Magistrate's Court. Gumede was employed by the Ministry of Justice for a time before leaving that position in 1988.\n\nIn 1988 Gumede left his job with the Ministry of Justice due to his political activities during apartheid, starting his business career when he founded Gijima Electronic And Security Systems. Gumede's worked as a business consultant after moving to Johannesburg in 1992. This led him to identify a number of business opportunities and by the mid-1990s he had registered a number of companies with the name \"Gijima\" ranging from a firm that provided protection services to the African National Congress (ANC) led Mpumalanga government to a stationary company. Gumede's most successful venture was the IT company he setup in 1997 that successfully received government tenders to develop and deploy IT solutions for the Department of Justice and Correctional Services services and the Department of Home Affairs. The IT company was consolidated in 2002 into Gijima Afrika Smart Technologies (GijimaASTP) which went on to win additional tenders from the government owned telecoms monopoly Telkom to produce phonecards.\n\nIn 2011 Gumede's company GijimaAST settled out of court with the Department of Home Affairs after a dispute over a tender project worth R2.3bn due to escalating project costs. In 2014 the Special Investigating Unit of South Africa concluded that a R360 million tender by the Department of Rural Development and Land Reform, and the State Information Technology Agency awarded to GijimaAST was irregular. Reports by the Sunday Independent newspaper about the alleged non-delivery on a government tender by GijimaAST resulted in Gumede threatening to file a R1 billion defamation lawsuit against the publication.\n\nGumede is open about his political and financial support for the governing party of South Africa, the ANC and has a close friendship with former ANC treasurer general Mathews Phosa. In 2016 he donated a fleet of 12 vehicles to the ANC's election campaign for the South African municipal elections of 2016. The Daily Maverick alleges that Gumede is part of an economic elite in South Africa that owes its existence to a system of patronage created by the African National Congress.\n\nIn 2018 a Sunday Times article alleged that Gumede provided substantial support to Emmerson Mnangagwa's election campaign during the Zimbabwean general election that year. It is illegal in Zimbabwe for foreigners to fund local elections. Gumede strongly denied the accusation calling it fake news.\n"}
{"id": "3079682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3079682", "title": "Rose Kennedy Cocktail", "text": "Rose Kennedy Cocktail\n\nRose Kennedy (also commonly known as a \"VSS,\" \"The Michele,\" \"The White Girl,\" \"The Brian Ziegler,\" \"The Sean Brady,\" or \"vodka soda splash\") is a cocktail popular in the mid-Atlantic and Northeastern United States. It consists of varying amounts of vodka and club soda with a splash of cranberry juice for color and taste. The juice sweetens the taste and takes the edge off the alcohol. The cocktail, typically garnished with a lemon or lime wedge, is based on the Cape Cod and named after Rose Kennedy, the matriarch of the Kennedy Family of Cape Cod and the mother of President John F. Kennedy from Massachusetts.\n\nThe cocktail is one of the most commonly ordered cocktails in many American bars, though usually referred to as a \"vodka soda, splash of cran.\"\nIt is served in a rocks glass.\n\n"}
{"id": "1318710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1318710", "title": "Samuel Curtis Johnson Jr.", "text": "Samuel Curtis Johnson Jr.\n\nSamuel Curtis Johnson Jr. (March 2, 1928 – May 22, 2004) was an American businessman. He was the fourth generation of his family to lead S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., which is headquartered in Racine, Wisconsin. He was the son of Herbert Fisk Johnson Jr. and the great-grandson of company founder, Samuel Curtis Johnson Sr. Johnson, a celebrated business icon, turned a relatively small wax company into a multibillion-dollar global household name. A noted philanthropist and environmentalist, Johnson led his company and community \"to protect this planet and leave it a better place for future generations to live,\" noting, \"A good executive, a busy executive, always has time to do some other things, especially for the good of the community.\"\n\nJohnson grew up in Racine, Wisconsin and spent most of his life there. A graduate of Asheville School, Sam attended Cornell University and was selected for membership in the Sphinx Head Society before his 1950 graduation with a bachelor's in economics. He then attended the Harvard Business School, from which he graduated in 1952 with a master's in business administration. Johnson also served in the U.S. Air Force as an intelligence officer for 2 years.\n\nJohnson met his wife, Imogene Powers Johnson, at Cornell University in 1946. They wed in 1954 and had been married fifty years at the time of his death. Johnson and his wife had four children, Samuel Curtis \"Curt\" Johnson III, Helen Johnson-Leipold, Herbert Fisk \"Fisk\" Johnson III and Winifred \"Winnie\" (Johnson) Marquart, as well as twelve grandchildren and three step-grandchildren at the time of his death.\n\nJohnson's father, Herbert Fisk \"H.F.\" Johnson Jr., and a team of Johnson Wax employees undertook a two-month, expedition to northeast Brazil in 1935 in search of a sustainable source of carnauba wax. On his return, he published a book, dedicating the book to his son: \"To Sammy, I hope you make this trip some day. It changed my life. Love, Dad.\" \nSixty-three years later, in 1998, Johnson recreated his father's journey with his two sons. Johnson undertook the journey, documented in a 2001 film called \"Carnauba: A Son’s Memoir\", in a replica Sikorsky S-38 amphibious plane like the one his father used. During the course of the film, Johnson reflects on his somewhat difficult relationship with his often-absent father as well as his own battle with alcoholism. Said Johnson of the journey, \"I started to get this idea that some people thought was crazy, but something was telling me to do it… to recreate my father’s airplane and retrace his journey. [My wife] Gene said I was doing it to spend more time with my father after all these years... in the end that turned out to be true.\"\n\nJohnson was once described by \"Fortune\" magazine in 1993 as \"corporate America’s leading environmentalist.\" Johnson was committed to environmental causes, stating, \"We must make sure that we step softly on the land... Once you destroy an old growth forest, or a special plant in the Amazon, or a reef around an atoll, it's gone forever.\"\n\nJohnson was one of the first business leaders to recognize the danger to the Earth's ozone layer from chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), a then-popular propellant in aerosol products, voluntarily banning the substance from all of S.C. Johnson's products in 1975 to the shock and anger of many people inside the company and across the nation. \nThe then-unproven scientific research led Johnson to publish a letter to the public explaining his decision. \"Our own company scientists confirm that as a scientific hypothesis it may be possible... We concur that the pressing need for reliable scientific investigation... We at Johnson Wax are taking this action in the interest of our customers and the public in general during a period of uncertainty and scientific inquiry.\"\n\nOver the next few years, Johnson encouraged his scientists to develop the company's many non-CFC aerosol propellants and pulled his aerosol business out of several countries in which CFCs were mandated in aerosol production. Three years after Johnson recalled and ceased production of all CFC products, the U.S. government corroborated the research of the substance's harmful effects and unilaterally banned CFCs. Johnson was praised for his early decision.\n\nJohnson was a founding member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD).\n\nJohnson incorporated environmentally responsible behavior into his business and believed that all businesses could be successful with the same mindset. Said Johnson of his involvement with the council, \"We aggressively seek out eco-efficiencies--ways of doing more with less--because it makes us more competitive when we reduce and eliminate waste and risk from our products and processes. And it saves us money. By developing products that are as safe as possible for people and the environment, we improve our market share.\"\n\nThe WBCSD named Johnson a member of the Order of Outstanding Contributors to Sustainable Development in 2003.\n\nBecause of Johnson's work with the WBCSD, President Bill Clinton appointed him to the President's Council on Sustainable Development in 1993. The group advised President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore until 1999 on ways to strengthen a community by improving the local economy, helping save the environment, and promoting equal opportunities for every American.\n\nIn 2003, Johnson personally financed an in-depth, grass-roots driven campaign against Wisconsin Energy Corporation’s proposal to build three new coal plants in Oak Creek, Wisconsin, stating, \"I think their choice is a terrible mistake considering the health and quality of life risks that coal presents.\"\n\nThe campaign, organized under the moniker of RESET (Responsible Energy for Southeastern Wisconsin's Tomorrow), consisted of print and radio ads as well as a public affairs education program. Citing that the already-existent seventeen Wisconsin coal plants produced 60% more smog-forming nitric oxide pollution and 63% more soot-producing sulfur oxide pollution than that allowed by the Clean Air Act, the group delayed but failed to derail new coal plant construction.\n\nA long-time member of both the President's Conservation Council of the Nature Conservancy and the National Development Council of the Nature Conservancy, Johnson and his company partnered with the Conservancy to create a reserve in the Caatinga region of northeastern Brazil, which he dedicated to the memory of his father. Johnson's reserve, the largest private Caatinga reserve in Brazil, protects 173 species of birds, 40 species of mammals, and 140 species of plants. For his work, the Ceará (Brazil) Legislative Assembly named Johnson an honorary citizen of the State of Ceará in 2000. The following year, the Wisconsin Chapter of The Nature Conservancy elected Johnson Honorary Trustee.\n\nIn addition to his environmental work, Johnson greatly contributed to education, better health, and greater opportunities for the people of his community and around the world. Although his financial contributions were considerable—his corporate donations were around 5% annually—Johnson preferred to become personally involved with many philanthropic organizations.\nSaid Johnson in 1988, \"For voluntarism to take hold as part of a company's culture, there must be a key executive who sets the example by personal involvement... I spend a good twenty to thirty percent of my time, or about two days of every seven, on what I call ‘not-for-profit’ activities... Raising money is only one part of voluntarism; indeed it is not the most important. A more important part is the devotion of time by the people who actually service the organizations and spend a good portion of their free time working at no pay.\"\n\nJohnson was the longest serving public member of the Mayo Foundation Board of Trustees, serving from 1967 to 1990 and acting as one-time Chairman. Mayo honored Johnson for his contributions in 1991 during the groundbreaking ceremonies of the $26-million-dollar state-of-the-art S.C. Johnson Medical Research Center on the Mayo Clinic’s campus in Scottsdale, Arizona. In 2004, the year of his death, Johnson, his family, and the S.C. Johnson Fund donated more than $12 million to the establishment of Mayo’s Samuel C. Johnson Program in the Genomics of Addiction.\n\nJohnson reflected on his contributions to the Mayo Clinic in 1991: \"I’ve made a commitment to this research center because I believe in the importance of medical research; I believe in the power of science to help relieve human suffering; and I believe in putting able, curious minds to work for the betterment of mankind.\"\n\nJohnson first publicly promoted his love of the arts in 1962 with S.C. Johnson's ART:USA, the Johnson Collection of Contemporary American Painting. One of the first corporate-sponsored touring art collections, ART:USA featured 102 paintings by living American artists and toured 18 cities around the world for two years prior to a two-and-a-half-year tour through 25 American cities, breaking attendance records around the world.\n\nJohnson donated the collection to the Smithsonian Institution in the mid-sixties citing its value because it had \"reached people around the world\" and \"enhanced the company’s reputation for doing the unusual in the name of excellence.\"\n\nJohnson served as a Trustee Emeritus and Presidential Councillor at Cornell University, his alma mater. In 1984, Johnson and his family made a $20 million endowment gift to the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management that was named after Johnson's great-grandfather, who founded Johnson Wax. In 1989, Johnson was named to the Johnson School of Management Hall of Honor in recognition of his advisory council leadership. Later gifts to Cornell, including gifts in 2004 in the amount of $5 million to establish the Center for Sustainable Global Enterprise as well as $2.5 million to create the S.C. Johnson Professorship in Sustainable Global Enterprise, supported the teaching of business and sustainability at the University. An additional gift created a new facility for the Cornell Laboratory of Ornithology.\n\nJohnson's wife, Imogene Powers Johnson founded the Prairie School in Racine, Wisconsin, along with good friend Willie Hilpert in 1965. According to Johnson there was \"a need in our community to augment our respected public school system with a curriculum and a learning environment to develop individual student achievement in a college preparatory program.\"\nThe children of many S. C. Johnson employees attend the school to this day. This pre-K-12 college preparatory private school features small classes and an emphasis on strong academics, extra curricular activities, and community activism. The unique architecture of the school was influenced by Frank Lloyd Wright’s designs. \nJohnson served as the school’s Chairman of the Board until 1983, when he was named Founding Chairman Emeritus, a position he held until his death. His wife Imogene continues on the school’s board in the same position.\n\nJohnson took part in the organization of the Downtown Racine Development Corporation in the 1980s, a community effort to restore the historic downtown area of the city which is the hometown of Johnson and his companies. His employees were among the local citizens to first donate time and money and to convince the local government to donate millions to restoration projects, including developing the harbor along Lake Michigan to include a festival site.\n\nJohnson further contributed to the revitalization of the downtown Racine area in 2002, when he commissioned William McDonough, a pioneer in green-architecture, to design the Johnson Building. Built on a former empty parking lot in the middle of the downtown area, the building is global headquarters for Johnson Outdoors and Johnson Financial Group. Local government officials named the street to the south of the building \"Sam Johnson Parkway\" in Johnson's honor.\n\nIn 1967, Johnson became chairman of S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc., and turned a $171 million floor wax company into a multibillion-dollar empire of four global companies which now employ over 28,000 people and sell products in 110 countries.\n\nJohnson's biggest impact on the business was his role in diversification. Said Johnson, \"The primary objective for a corporate leader is to ensure institutional survival... To survive you have to grow. To grow you have to diversify... When a company is diversified into various fields, it is rarely seriously vulnerable to the ups and downs that ravage individual business. And if you are geographically diversified... then you have some insulation between yourself and localized political and economic trouble.\"\n\nJohnson's great-grandfather, Samuel Curtis Johnson Sr., founded the S.C. Johnson Company in 1886 as a parquet floor manufacturing business. The company, renamed S.C. Johnson & Son in 1906 when Johnson's grandfather, Herbert Fisk Johnson Sr., became a partner, began selling wax for hardwood floors in the early 20th century as an additional service. The wax business became more lucrative than the parquet floor business as the company developed wax for use on surfaces as diverse as dance floors and airplanes.\n\nJohnson's father, Herbert Fisk Johnson Jr., later joined the company commonly referred to as Johnson Wax and became president in 1928. Johnson joined the company in 1954 as Assistant to the President and was promoted to New Products Director in 1955, where he spearheaded the development of the aerosol insecticide, what he called \"the first Johnson Wax product without wax.\" He went on to create the first aerosol air freshener (Glade), the first aerosol insect repellent (OFF!) and the first aerosol furniture polish (Pledge.)\n\nIn 1958, Johnson became Vice President of the newly formed New Service Products Division and in 1960, he moved to London and served the company as European Regional Director. It was in this capacity that he noticed other American products on a store shelf in Italy and became determined to never again be late to a global market.\n\nBefore becoming elected company President, Johnson served as international Vice President in 1962 and moved back to Racine in 1963 as Executive Vice President. In 1967, he was also elected Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In 1972, he stepped down as President but continued in his capacities as Chairman and CEO of the consumer business until 1988. In 1993, he was elected non-executive Chairman of the Board, a position he held until his retirement in 2000, when he became Chairman Emeritus of what was then known as SC Johnson – A Family Company.\n\nJohnson further diversified his company's offerings in 1979 when he established Worldwide Innochem, a specialty chemical business. Later known as Johnson Professional and then Johnson Polymer, the business became an independent company in 1997. In 2002, the company acquired DiverseyLever and became JohnsonDiversey, Inc., the second largest business-to-business hygiene products company in the world. The company's motto, \"Clean is just the beginning,\" refers to Diversey's position as a worldwide leader in the development and marketing of cleaning and hygiene solutions for commercial, institutional, and industrial facilities.\n\nJohnson led his company into the finance industry in 1970 with the establishment of the Heritage Bank & Trust (now Johnson Bank) in Racine. The company, which became the Johnson Financial Group, Inc., further expanded to include Johnson Trust, Johnson Asset Management, Johnson Insurance, Johnson Investment Services, and a number of international businesses in Europe and the Caribbean. Johnson Bank is one of the five largest privately owned community banks and Johnson Insurance is one of the top 100 insurance brokers in the United States. Johnson was the group's Chairman of the Board at the time of his death.\n\nJohnson's foray into diversification for his one-time wax-only family business included expanding into the outdoors industry in 1970. That year, Johnson merged Johnson Reels with the company's first outdoor acquisition, Minn Kota Motors, into Johnson Diversified, Inc. Johnson Diversified acquired Eureka! Tent in 1973, Scubapro and Old Town Canoe in 1974, and fourteen other businesses over the course of two decades.\nJohnson Diversified became Johnson Worldwide Associates in 1977 before Johnson's family bought out the subsidiary in 1986, and took it public with offerings in 1987 and again in 1988. In 2000, JWA was renamed Johnson Outdoors, Inc. At the time of his death, Johnson was Chairman of the Johnson Outdoors’ Executive Committee and Director of the Board.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21590149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21590149", "title": "Saudi Authority for Industrial Cities and Technology Zones", "text": "Saudi Authority for Industrial Cities and Technology Zones\n\nThe Saudi Authority for Industrial Cities and Technology Zones (), also known simply as MODON is a government organization created by the Government of Saudi Arabia in 2001 through Ministerial Legislation No. 235 dated 27/8/1422H. It is responsible for the regulation and promotion of Industrial Estates and Technology Zones in Saudi Arabia and to encourage the private sector to become involved in the development, operation and maintenance of Industrial Estates.\n\nMODON has set up 35 industrial cities, including five MODON Oases (industrial cities set-up for women workers), and oversees the organization of these cities spread over various regions of the Kingdom. An area of more than 190 million square meters has been developed in industrial cities in Riyadh, Jeddah, Dammam, Makkah, Qassim, Al-Ahsa, Madinah, Assir, Sakakah, Tabuk, Ha'il, Najran, Sudair, Al-Kharj, Al-Baha, Ar’ar, Hafr Al-Batin, Zulfi, Durma and Shaqraa. The investments in these cities exceed 500 billion riyals ($133 billion). These industrial cities employ more than 528 thousand workers.\n\nThe following table shows the total area in industrial cities up to the end of 2011:\n\nModon oases are industrial cities specifically set-up for women workers. Currently there are five Modon oases as follows:\n\nMODON built ready industrial buildings, on an area of 1500 m², consisting areas for production, parking, landscaping, security room and management and utilities. Ready-built factories are one of the pilot projects offered by MODON to serve industry, in a number of industrial cities, serving medium and small entrepreneurs alike. The idea of this project focuses on easing the production process of the investor wherein they do not have to engage in the time-consuming design and construction processes. By the end of 2016, MODON was successful in providing 604 ready-built factories, including factories under construction, in a number of industrial cities.\n\nSudair Industrial City set out to change the concept of industrial cities by providing integrated services, both key services such as water and energy and support services such as housing, education, business and recreation centers, research centers and transportation, among others. Strategically located on a highway between Riyadh and Al-Qassim. Development of this city started in 2009.\n\nModon is developing new industrial cities in Sudair, Jazan, Ar’ar, Al-Kharj, Al-Gurayaat, Zulfi, Al-Baha and a second industrial estate in Jeddah. Also, Modon is re-developing existing industrial cities, as well as building model factories.\n\nModon is also establishing industrial cities in the reformatories of Al-Ha'er and Jeddah in cooperation with the Public Administration of Prisons.\n\nTawfiq Al Rabiah was Director General of MODON from April 2007 to January 2012.\n\nEng. Saleh Al-Rasheed was Director General of MODON from December 2011 to April 2017.\n\nEng. Khaled Al-Salem has been Acting Director General since April 2017. Thereafter he was appointed Director General of MODON by a resolution of its Board of Directors in September 2017\n\n"}
{"id": "50960221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50960221", "title": "TECOM Group", "text": "TECOM Group\n\nTECOM Group, formerly known as TECOM Investments, operates 11 sector-focused communities in Dubai. It is a unit of the sovereign investment vehicle, Dubai Holding\n\nThe group works with the Dubai Government in its new strategies and plans:\nThe group has rolled out an AED 4.5 billion Innovation Strategy to create infrastructure, and drive entrepreneurship.. This includes developing innovation complexes, creative spaces, technology laboratories and smart buildings, the launch of new business incubators, and the establishment of a start-up fund to stimulate innovation. As part of this, the group launched a new platform for media start-ups and entrepreneurs, in5 Media. The group first invested in incubation and innovation centres in 2013, with Dubai Internet City’s in5, which has since worked with over 20,000 people in hackathons, competitions and community events.\n\nTECOM merged two of its projects, Dubai Biotechnology and Research Park, and the Energy and Environment Park, in 2015, into Dubai Science Park.\n\nNew brand identities were announced in 2015 and 2016 for some of its communities: \n\nTECOM also manages Dubai Internet City, Dubai Media City, Dubai Studio City and Dubai International Academic City.\n\nDubai Design District (d3) is also a part of the group’s themed developments portfolio, located adjacent to the Business Bay area. Dubai Wholesale City is the latest addition to the group’s portfolio of business communities. .\n"}
{"id": "28353779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28353779", "title": "The Intangibles of Leadership", "text": "The Intangibles of Leadership\n\nThe Intangibles of Leadership: The 10 Qualities of Superior Executive Performance is a book on business leadership, written by management psychologist Richard A. Davis, Ph.D. The book was published on July 26, 2010 by Jossey-Bass.\n\nDavis is a licensed Industrial/Organizational Psychologist and President/CEO of Kilberry Leadership Advisors. He has been consulting to senior executives for the past 10 years. Previously, he was partner with the Toronto office of RHR International. He has lectured on organizational behavior at the University of Western Ontario, Schulich School of Business, and Rotman School of Business at University of Toronto, and has been an invited speaker at high-profile organizations such as the National Association of Corporate Directors, Financial Executives International, and the Conference Board of Canada.\n\nDavis has been cited widely in the popular media, including CNN, CNBC, \"Harvard Business Review\",\"BusinessWeek\", \"CFO Magazine\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"Entrepreneur\", The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, CanadaAM, and Report on Business TV.\n\nThe Intangibles of Leadership uncovers patterns in the attributes that truly distinguish those who succeed at the top. After more than a decade of senior executive assessments, CEO interviews, and proprietary research, Davis found that extraordinary leaders possess certain characteristics that fall between the lines of existing leadership models, yet are fundamental to executive success. Davis explains each of these qualities, the people who exemplify them, how to detect them in others, and how to develop the subtle characteristics that will enable leaders to stand out from the pack. The book has been highly reviewed and was named as a \"Top Business Book of 2010 by Library Journal\".\n\nThe Ten Intangibles outlined in the book are:\n\nAccording to the author, the book is a practical atlas of the characteristics that most define extraordinary leaders and their underlying psychological mechanisms. It was designed as a mirror to help executives think about how they approach leadership and gain insights that can enable them to grow and develop.\n\n"}
{"id": "33689518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33689518", "title": "The Queen's Award for Enterprise: International Trade (Export) (2011)", "text": "The Queen's Award for Enterprise: International Trade (Export) (2011)\n\nThe Queen's Award for Enterprise: Sustainable Development (International Trade Export) (2011) was awarded on 21 April 2011, by Queen Elizabeth II. \n\nThe following organisations were awarded this year.\n\n"}
{"id": "29948175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29948175", "title": "The Regional Organisation of Enterprises in Helsinki", "text": "The Regional Organisation of Enterprises in Helsinki\n\nThe Regional Organisation of Enterprises in Helsinki was founded in 1939 and is an organisation of more than 6300 business owners in Helsinki, Finland. It is one of the 21 regional organisations of the Federation of Finnish Enterprises, which has the largest membership of all business-related federations in Finland.\n\nThe mission of the organisation is to create a favourable enterprise climate and provide its members with information, mentoring, networking, events and educational opportunities.\n\nThe Regional Organisation of Enterprises in Helsinki is divided into 7 regions:\n\n\nIn addition, the organisation has its own informal network HYNY for entrepreneurs less than 35 years of age. Founded in 2006, HYNY helps young entrepreneurs to learn and grow, leading to greater business success. For its members HYNY provides training, events and networking opportunities.\n\nThe founding meeting of the Regional Organisation of Enterprises in Helsinki was held 10 January 1939. At that time the members consisted mainly of industry associations but soon more and more independent entrepreneurs became members.\n\nDue to the change in regulations in 1962, the name of the organisation was changed to Suur-Helsingin Yrittäjät ry and the organisational activities and number of members increased. Caused by the strong development of the region, several structural solutions were implemented and organisation’s activities took their current form. In addition, Espoo and Vantaa founded their own regional organisations in 1979, thus the responsibilities of these strongly developing and growing regions were divided and organisational activities redefined.\n\nThe original mission statement: bring entrepreneurs together, influence and safeguard the common interests, has never changed its core. The most significant change is its key function: the nature of the organisation as an information, mentoring, networking, events and educational opportunities provider for its members.\n\nIn 2009 the Regional Organisation of Enterprises in Helsinki celebrated its 70th anniversary. In the same year the organisation hosted the National Entrepreneur’s Day at the Helsinki Fair Centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "16644319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16644319", "title": "Trade office", "text": "Trade office\n\nA trade office, sometimes known as a trade representation, commercial office, or trade mission, is an official establishment that promotes the commercial interests of a government (such as a city, state, or country) in a foreign capital. The head of such an establishment is typically called a trade representative or commercial representative.\n\nDue to the limited recognition of the Republic of China (Taiwan) as a result of the People's Republic of China's One-China policy, many countries do not have formal diplomatic relations with the Taiwanese government. Taiwan's interests in these countries and these countries' interests in Taiwan are usually represented by one or more trade missions which function as de facto embassies or consulates.\n\n"}
{"id": "4076105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4076105", "title": "Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs", "text": "Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs\n\nThe Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs is currently the fourth ranking position in the U.S. Department of State that is intended to help ensure that public diplomacy is practiced in combination with public affairs and traditional diplomacy to advance U.S. interests and security. The Under Secretary oversees three bureaus at the Department of State: Educational and Cultural Affairs, Public Affairs, and International Information Programs. Also reporting to the Under Secretary are the Office of Policy, Planning and Resources for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs and the Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.\n\nThe position was created on October 1, 1999, during the Clinton administration after Title XIII, Section 1313 of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 (112 Stat. 2681-776). Section 2305 of the Act (112 Stat. 2681-825) increased the number of Under Secretaries of State from five to six. Subdivision A of the Act, also known as the Foreign Affairs Agencies Consolidation Act of 1998, abolished the United States Information Agency and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.\n\nThe position of Under Secretary is currently vacant. Heather Nauert previously served as acting Under Secretary, who replaced Steve Goldstein, who was dismissed summarily by President Trump on March 13, 2018. Appointments to the position require confirmation by the Senate. The position is ranked the fourth highest in the State Department.\n\n"}
{"id": "27295895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27295895", "title": "William A. Clark House", "text": "William A. Clark House\n\nThe William A. Clark House, also known as \"Clark's Folly\", was a mansion located at 962 Fifth Avenue on the northeast corner of its intersection with East 77th Street on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.\nIt was demolished in 1927 and replaced with a luxury apartment building (960 Fifth Avenue).\n\nWilliam A. Clark, a wealthy entrepreneur and politician from Montana, commissioned the New York City firm of Lord, Hewlett & Hull to build the house in 1897. The house was completed in 1911, after numerous legal disputes, at a cost of $7 million (). The house contained 121 rooms, 31 baths, four art galleries, a swimming pool, a concealed garage, and a private underground rail line to bring in coal for heat.\n\nIt was reported that Clark bought a quarry in New Hampshire, at a cost of $50,000 (), and built a railroad to get out the stone for the building. He also bought a bronze foundry employing 200 men to manufacture the bronze fittings. In addition, he imported marble from Italy, oak from Sherwood Forest in England, and parts of old French châteaux for the interior.\n\nThe building of the mansion is described in the bestselling biography of Clark's daughter, Huguette, and her family, \"Empty Mansions: The Mysterious Life of Huguette Clark and the Spending of a Great American Fortune\" by Bill Dedman and Paul Clark Newell, Jr.\n\nThe house had 250 feet on 77th Street and 77 feet on Fifth Avenue, more than any other rich man on Fifth opposite the park, except for Andrew Carnegie. The Fifth Avenue front was large for a New York house, with three bays of granite.\n\nOn 77th Street, the house featured a long facade rising to a steep mansard roof. The house featured a spectacular four-sided tower with a three-story-high inward-curving arch topped by an open pergola that was said to have been visible from almost anywhere in Central Park.\n\nThe house rose nine stories, with Turkish baths below ground level, laundry rooms on the top floor and many Greek marble columns. There was a Numidian marble fireplace in the banquet room that measured 15 ft. across, with life-size figures of Diana and Neptune. The 121 rooms were filled with medieval tapestries and artwork. In the breakfast room, there were 170 carved panels, with no two being identical.\n\nOn the second floor was a rotunda, 36 feet high, of Maryland marble with eight Bresche violet marble columns, used as the statuary room. The room opened onto a conservatory of solid brass and glass, 30 feet high and 22 feet wide. Across the rotunda was the marble-paneled main picture gallery, which was 95 ft. long and two stories high. An organ loft housed the largest chamber organ in America, with 62 “speaking stops.”\n\nThe \"Salon Doré\", an ornate 18th-century room taken from the Hotel de Clermont in Paris, was installed in the house and served as the receiving room.\n\nThere were 25 guest rooms with their own baths, and 35 servant's rooms, with men’s quarters (to the east) and female rooms (to the west). There was also a Gothic library that was 90 feet long, featuring a beamed ceiling and an immense carved fireplace.\n\nClark's art collection included works by Eugène Delacroix, Jean-François Millet, Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot, John Constable, François Boucher and Charles-François Daubigny. It was reported that he spent $200,000 () for the Gobelin tapestries owned by Prince Murat and $350,000 () for those of the Earl of Coventry.\n\nIn 1925, upon Clark's death, his widow and his daughter, Huguette Clark, decamped to 907 Fifth Avenue, where the annual rental for a full-floor apartment was about $30,000. Shortly thereafter, the mansion was sold to Anthony Campagna for $3 million (). He had the home torn down in 1927, less than 20 years after it was built. It was replaced with the current luxury apartment building at 960 Fifth Avenue. The \"Salon Doré\" was bequeathed to the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.\n\nMontgomery Schuyler, in a column titled \"Architectural Aberrations\" in \"Architectural Record\", stated that the house was “an appropriate residence for the late P. T. Barnum.” He felt the tower was “meaningless and fatuous”; the rounded rustication on the first floor suggested the prototype of “a log house.” At the time, the French style had gone out of fashion and the ornamentation was no longer in vogue. Schuyler wrote that “a certified check to the amount of all this stone carving hung on the outer wall would serve every artistic purpose attained by the carving itself.”\n\nThe editor of The Architect called the place “The House of a Thousand Cartouches” and despised the “dolorous and ponderous granite” chosen. At the time, these opinions were widespread, earning the home the nickname \"Clark's Folly\".\n\nIn 2011, however, \"The New York Times\" architectural critic Christopher Gray stated the house was, in fact, \"a pretty neat house. If Carrère & Hastings had designed it for an establishment client, its profligacy would certainly have been forgiven, perhaps lionized.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45383114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45383114", "title": "World Travel Awards", "text": "World Travel Awards\n\nThe World Travel Awards were founded in 1993. Annually, an international jury of hospitality experts and peers, mainly from the World Travel and Tourism Council, decided on awards presented to hotels and other hospitality companies.\n\nAwards are given both on a world level and international region level in a wide range of categories. Categories include hotel, airline, travel agency, and car-hire company.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1615746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615746", "title": "Ángel Ramos (industrialist)", "text": "Ángel Ramos (industrialist)\n\nÁngel Ramos (December 3, 1902 – September 1, 1960) was the founder of Telemundo, the second largest Spanish-language television network in the United States.\n\nRamos (birth name: Ángel Ramos Torres ) was born into a poor family in the northern town of Manatí, Puerto Rico. He was the only son born to Juan Ramón Ramos Vélez and Braulia Torres Giliberty, and only 3 years old when his father died. He was raised by his mother and an aunt, He finished his primary education, however in 1917, when he was 15 years old, he felt that in Manati he didn't have a future and left his home; he then moved to San Juan, the capital city of Puerto Rico.\n\nWhile living in San Juan, he went to school at the Central High School and found a job in \"El Mundo\", a recently founded newspaper. He started as a typesetter. In 1924, when he was 22 years old, he was promoted to the position of administrator.\n\nIn 1944, Ramos purchased the newspaper's holding company and thus, became the sole owner and publisher of the newspaper. He met his future wife, an Italian girl by the name of Argentina Schifano while on a business trip to New York City. After they were married, the couple continued to live in Puerto Rico where Ramos's company was based.\n\nRamos founded WEMB-Radio El Mundo and within a period of two years he purchased another radio station, WKAQ, thus establishing \"Radio El Mundo\" as the number 1 radio station in Puerto Rico which controlled 80% of the total air time.\n\nIn 1954, Ramos founded the first Puerto Rican television station, WKAQ-TV that was transmitted through Channel 2 and which he named \"Telemundo\". Ramos wanted to maintain a consistent branding between his properties using the \"mundo\" theme (\"mundo\" is the Spanish word for \"world\"). Telemundo's first television signal was transmitted on January 28, 1954. On August 22, 1955, Telemundo transmitted the first locally produced \"telenovela\" (soap opera), titled \"Ante la Ley\", which included the participation of the Puerto Rican actress, Lucy Boscana. Argentina Ramos was active in her husband's newspaper, radio and television companies. They later set up a network in the former British colony of Guyana, though it was not particularly successful it was an indication of his ambition being carried over into those who followed in his footsteps. Sadly, they failed in their attempt because Spanish was not a common language in that country.\nIn 1950, Ramos was the recipient of the María Moors Cabot Award, bestowed upon him by Columbia University. That year he was also named \"Citizen of the Year\" by the Puerto Rican Institute in New York. He was the President of the Executive Committee of the Interamerican Press Society.\n\nOn September 1, 1960, Angel Ramos died in New York City of a cerebral hemorrhage. His wife Argentina became the head of El Mundo Enterprises. She established the Angel Ramos Foundation, which is now the largest private philanthropic foundation in Puerto Rico. In 1963, Argentina remarried and moved to Miami, Florida. On April 14, 1983, Telemundo was sold to John Blair and Co. and on October 1987 it passed to the hands of Reliance, Inc; finally, in 2001, Telemundo became part of NBC Universal and Telemundo is now the second largest Spanish speaking television network in the United States and, through its international channel, is also seen in most of Latin-America.\n\nThe Angel Ramos Foundation provided a matching grant of one half the construction cost of the Arecibo Observatory's visitor center which was named after Mr. Ramos.\n"}
