{"id": "43357697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43357697", "title": "7 Most Endangered Programme", "text": "7 Most Endangered Programme\n\nThe 7 Most Endangered Programme identifies endangered monuments and sites in Europe and mobilizes public and private partners on a local, national and European level to find a viable future for those sites.\nIt was launched by Europa Nostra and the European Investment Bank Institute in January 2013.\n\nThe 7 Most Endangered Programme is inspired by a successful programme of the US National Trust for Historic Preservation, based in Washington. It does not provide funding. Its aim is to serve as a catalyst for action and raise awareness.\n\nEntries can be submitted by Europa Nostra’s country representations, member and associate organisations as well as by established public and private bodies active in the heritage field located in countries where Europa Nostra is not yet represented.\n\nAn international advisory panel, comprising specialists in history, archaeology, architecture, conservation and finance, meet to discuss over the applications and shortlist the most endangered monuments and sites. The board of Europa Nostra reviews the list which is then publicly announced during an annual congress.\n\nRescue missions to the sites included in the final list are then organised and the sites are visited. The results and recommendations of the rescue missions are summarised in reports that become available on the organisation's website.\n"}
{"id": "14550582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14550582", "title": "A Drunken Man's Praise of Sobriety", "text": "A Drunken Man's Praise of Sobriety\n\n\"A Drunken Man's Praise of Sobriety\" is a poem written by the Irish poet William Butler Yeats. It is featured as a song on the bonus disk of Elvis Costello's album Brutal Youth.\n"}
{"id": "1626848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1626848", "title": "Afric'Air Charter", "text": "Afric'Air Charter\n\nAfric'Air Charter was an airline based in Benin that operated between 2002 and 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "26264314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26264314", "title": "African immigration to Latin America", "text": "African immigration to Latin America\n\nAfrican immigrants to Latin America include citizens and residents of countries in Latin America who were born in, or with recent ancestors from Africa. This excludes descendants of people who were forcibly transported to the Americas through the Atlantic slave trade.\n\nYale University published a report on the increasing immigration of people from the African continent to countries in Latin America. This report explains this trend in immigration as being due to the stricter border controls and immigration policies by countries across Europe.\nThis report also cites rises in xenophobic sentiment across Europe as a reason for increased migration of African immigrants from Africa to Latin America.\n\nBrazil is cited as having the largest black population of any country outside of Africa. Brazil's and most of Latin America's friendly immigration policies attract migration from people from the African countries who seek to be integrated into society. Access to free healthcare and Spanish education also incentivize immigration to Latin America.\n\nDuring the Portuguese Colonial War and Angolan and Mozambican Civil Wars, a large number of Angolans and Mozambicans (including white Angolans and Mozambicans of Portuguese descent) fled to Brazil (also a former Portuguese colony, as Portugal was also a major destination for refugees) and became citizens.\n\nAfter the end of both wars, most migration across the Atlantic to Latin America was from West Africa, often due to political and socioeconomic instability, and a trend toward the tightening of border security in the European Union in the 1990s and first decade of the 21st century. The process of settlement and citizenship acquisition, however, has been eased for these immigrants due to the presence of pre-existing Black diaspora populations in such countries as Brazil, which has minimized local trends towards xenophobia or colorism.\n\n\n\nIn the period between the late 19th century and the early 20th century, Brazilian immigration policy became restrictive of migration by populations from Africa in an effort to shift the population's racial demographic from being diverse to a white majority one. These policies worked by encouraging migration of people of European descent and making it difficult for people of African descent to enter the country. This same stance was imposed on Asians. These policies differed sharply from policies in the United States that enforced segregation and racial inequality. Brazil's policies were rooted in its history of interracial blending and relationships between the native people of Brazil, Europeans, and Africans. \n\nIn 1974, South Africa and Paraguay announced an attitude of friendship between the two states. It was the beginning of an era of friendship between countries on opposite sides of the Atlantic, coming at a period in which South Africa was isolated from the rest of the Western world which it had up to this point so depended on for support and recognition. South African efforts to form links with Latin American states was driven by a desire to oppose the world's efforts to isolate South Africa because of its policies of Apartheid.South Africa sought links with Paraguay to find new markets for its manufactured goods.\n\nLatin American countries like Paraguay expressed an interest in attracting farmers from Southern Africa who were fleeing the possibility of majority rule, intensifying guerilla wars, and revolutionary wars for independence. Paraguay observed the expertise and experience of these farmers and expressed an interest in utilizing their technical expertise to develop land and the economy in Paraguay. Government officials traveled to Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) to advertise the possibility of resettling of farmers to Paraguay. That visit prompted 40 Rhodesian farmers to visit Argentina to explore possibilities of farming there. At international talks, West German delegates made an offer to Latin American governments of 150 million dollars in order for them to accept 30,000 white farmers of German descended from Namibia, South Africa, and Rhodesia.\n\n"}
{"id": "21632181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21632181", "title": "Al Farooj Fresh", "text": "Al Farooj Fresh\n\nAl Farooj Fresh is an international chain of fast food restaurants based in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Al Farooj Fresh was the first fast-casual restaurant chain in UAE that offered healthy food, such as shawerma sandwiches and chicken meals.\n\nAl Farooj Fresh is a wholly owned subsidiary of Al Islami Foods, a company that provides halal food products, and has 18 branches worldwide including 14 in the UAE, 1 in Oman and 2 in Lebanon.\n\nAl-Farooj Fresh was founded by a Lebanese family in 1994, with the first branch opening at Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates that year. By 2006 the chain had expanded to a total of eight branches.\n\nOn February 25, 2006, at the Gulfood Exhibition held at the Dubai International Convention & Exhibition Centre, it was announced that Al Farooj was acquired by the Mohammed Bin Rashid Establishment for Young Business Leaders, an organisation launched in 2002 to encourage and facilitate the development of business and entrepreneurial activity among UAE nationals. The Establishment worked jointly with Al Islami to introduce the concept to UAE entrepreneurs after final approval of Al Islami on the franchisee selection.\n\nIn February, 2008, Al Islami acquired majority shares of the Al Farooj restaurant chain, relaunching the franchise later that month with plans to expand operations to serve the Middle Eastern market. Coinciding with the relaunch of Al Farooj Fresh, Al Islami announced plans to unveil their hospitality arm, of which Al Farooj Fresh was a major part of the portfolio – along with Al Islami Cart, Al Islami Meat Shops and a number of food products. The company's expansion continued into 2009, with Al Islami revealing that they would be expanding the Al Farooj chain to 17 branches with an investment of DHS 8 million (appx $2.2 million), providing them with 17 branches worldwide consisting of 14 in the UAE, 1 in Oman and 2 in Lebanon., and Kuwait.\n\n"}
{"id": "26921513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26921513", "title": "Avatime people", "text": "Avatime people\n\nThe Avatime are an Akan people who live in Volta region of Ghana. History has it that they are Ahanta people who migrated to the Volta region.\n"}
{"id": "17656753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17656753", "title": "Aytysh", "text": "Aytysh\n\nAytysh (, ) or Aytys (, ) is a song competition held between two aqyns. Each usually strums a national instrument (qomuz in the case of the Kyrgyz, dombra in the case of the Kazakhs), and they respond to each other in spontaneous rhyming verse on a range of topics. They may make backhanded political statements, criticise each other's style, flirt (if of the opposite sex), and flat-out insult one another, but it is all done in good humour: Kyrgyz aqyns even often state that one must have good intentions to be a good aqyn. Because of this, it is a commonly held belief that one cannot hold what an aqyn says against them, and the only way for one aqyn to \"get back at\" another aqyn is to attempt to outdo them at aytysh. \n\nDespite the custom to allow aqyns all forms of slander, there are known cases of aqyns in Kazakhstan being threatened for making political statements against the president.\n\nKyrgyz aqyns claim that it is important to be aware of their audience to perform well, and hence, some find it difficult to perform in isolation (e.g., in a studio without a live audience). The audience often votes on the winner in a competition, though this isn't a formal process—many people can \"feel\" (without anyone stating it overtly) which aqyn the audience has converged upon as a winner just by the crowd's dynamics.\n\nUsually aqyns compete against other aqyns of same nationality, but due to a high level of mutual intelligibility between the Kyrgyz and Kazakh languages, there have been cases, even in recent years, where Kyrgyz and Kazakh aqyns have competed against one another.\n"}
{"id": "6337845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6337845", "title": "Baħrija", "text": "Baħrija\n\nBaħrija is a small rural village in Rabat, Malta, with a low population density. The name Baħrija means \"moth\" in Maltese. It is also known in English as Baħria, of which the Counts Moscati had owned the fiefdom that was granted by the Grand Master of Malta.\n\nTwo churches are present in Baħrija, an old one (which was re-inaugurated on Saturday 19 October 2013), and the newer church, built in 1984, which is dedicated to Saint Martin of Tours and which is currently in use.\n\nThe main feast in Baħrija is that of Saint Martin of Tours, which is celebrated annually on 11 November. This feast is associated with an old tradition where a bag full of an assortment of nuts, sweets and fresh fruit is given to young children on the day.\n\nAnother tradition present exclusively in Baħrija is the annual fair which is held on the Sunday before the feast, where an assortment of goods are given away in a number of lotteries.\n\nBaħrija is also famous for its rabbit cooking restaurants.\n\nBahrija is one of the highest places in Malta, therefore the weather here is cooler than that of the lower land (it is also exposed to the cold northern winds coming over the sea). Most of the north of Malta is visible from this village, but the south west of Gozo (including Xlendi) is also visible, and on clear still nights, a line of street lights is visible on the horizon to the north, where Sicily is.\n\nAlthough Bahrija has little rich soil, much of its land is used for agriculture, mostly growing grape vines and other common fruit that can withstand the harsh heat of the summer and the lack of soil.\n\nBahrija is a good place to search for walks. For a cliff climb, there is the Fomm ir-Rih walk, or for Maltese heritage, the Victoria lines start at Kuncizzjoni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13260305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13260305", "title": "Belgian Chamber Committee on Justice", "text": "Belgian Chamber Committee on Justice\n\nThe Committee on Justice (, ) is a standing committee of the Belgian Chamber of Representatives. It is responsible for all matters related to the administration of justice. The committee consists of 17 members and is currently chaired by Claude Eerdekens (PS). The seats on the committee are divided among CD&V/N-VA (4 seats), MR (3 seats), PS (2 seats), Open Flemish Liberals and Democrats (2 seats), Vlaams Belang (2 seats), SP.A-Spirit (2 seats), Ecolo-Groen! (1 seat) and CDH (1 seat).\n"}
{"id": "26108438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26108438", "title": "Business Day (South Africa)", "text": "Business Day (South Africa)\n\nBusiness Day is a national daily newspaper in South Africa, published from Monday to Friday and also available as an e-paper. Based in Parktown, Johannesburg, it is edited by Tim Cohen and published by Tiso Blackstar, which is also the parent company of the \"Financial Mail\" magazine and Business Day TV (formerly known as Summit TV). \n\nIt is owned by Tiso Blackstar.\n\nThe newspaper, launched on 1 May 1985, covers all major national and international news, with a specific focus on the South African economy and business sector, companies and financial markets. It also contains an influential opinion section with several popular columnists, along with coverage of sport, travel, books, arts and entertainment.\n\nBusiness Day has its digital identity on BusinessLive. It also has apps for the iPhone and iPad, Android devices and BlackBerry, and a mobile site (businesslive.co.za).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4415070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4415070", "title": "Caater", "text": "Caater\n\nCaater is an Estonian Eurodance duo of Kalle Kukk and Markku Tiidumaa. Caater is signed with Sony Music.\n\nIn 1999, Caater was awarded the \"Kuldne Plaat\" (gold record) at the Estonian Music Awards for the single, \"O Si Ne Ne\". That year, it was also named band of the year and album of the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2004340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2004340", "title": "Chelkans", "text": "Chelkans\n\nThe Chelkans (native name - Shalgan) are a small Turkic people living in southern Siberia. Those residing in Altai Republic are sometimes grouped together with the Altay ethnic group and those in Kemerovo Oblast are grouped with the Shors; however, they are recognized as a separate ethnic group by ethnographers. According to the 2010 census, there were 1,181 Chelkans in Russia.\n\n"}
{"id": "43071446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43071446", "title": "Cilentana Nera", "text": "Cilentana Nera\n\nThe Cilentana Nera is an indigenous breed of domestic goat from the province of Salerno, in Campania in southern Italy. It takes its name from the geographical region of the Cilento, much of which is today within the Parco Nazionale del Cilento, Vallo di Diano e Alburni, and is raised mainly in that area and in the Monti Alburni. The range extends to the Monti Picentini and to the area of Ricigliano in eastern Campania and Muro Lucano in Basilicata. It is one of three goat breeds in the Cilento, the others being the Cilentana Grigia and the Cilentana Fulva. The Cilentana Nera is found on higher ground and poorer pasture than the other two, and is raised mainly for meat. It has been influenced by the Garganica and Napoletana goat breeds.\n\nThe Cilentana Nera is one of the forty-three autochthonous Italian goat breeds of limited distribution for which a herdbook is kept by the Associazione Nazionale della Pastorizia, the Italian national association of sheep- and goat-breeders. In the 1980s numbers were very low, and in 1983 it was thought to be close to extinction; however, a census in 2008 found 3683 head, and at the end of 2013 the registered population was variously reported as 2403 and as 2098.\n"}
{"id": "10222481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10222481", "title": "Cilindar", "text": "Cilindar\n\nCilindar () is a new wave, ska, 2 Tone and reggae band from Skopje, the Republic of Macedonia formed in the early 1980s, in the then SR Macedonia.\n\nToday its former members are respectable solo or band artists in the Macedonian music scene:\n\n\nThe band recorded several songs and videos for the national Macedonian Radio-Television of which \"Samo eden del\" is the most popular.\n\nAfter its split in the mid-1980s, the band members gathered again for a reunion concert at the Bob Marley tribute festival held in Skopje in 2008.\n\nThe name of the band is a misspelling of the word \"Cylinder\" (\"\") which means a cylinder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53933269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53933269", "title": "Constitution (Amendment No. 2) Act 1927", "text": "Constitution (Amendment No. 2) Act 1927\n\nThe Constitution (Amendment No. 2) Act 1927 was an Act amending the Constitution of the Irish Free State. It amended Article 21 of the constitution to provide for the automatic re-election of the Ceann Comhairle of Dail Eireann.\n\nThat procedure continues to this day under the 1937 constitution.\n\nThe Act became obsolete on the repeal of the 1922 Constitution in 1937, and has formally been repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 2016.\n"}
{"id": "6763191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763191", "title": "Could It Be That I'm in Love", "text": "Could It Be That I'm in Love\n\n\"Could It Be That I'm In Love\" was the Irish entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1991, performed in English by Kim Jackson. She is the daughter of Ann McConnell, a successful Irish cabaret singer. Jackson had provided backing vocals for Ireland's Eurovision entry the previous year (Somewhere in Europe), and her entry was in fact written and composed by the performer of that previous entry (Liam Reilly), one of the rare occasions when such a thing has happened in Contest history.\n\nThe song is a ballad, with Jackson confessing her feelings to her lover. She sings that she is unsure of exactly what her feelings mean, but wonders if they mean that she is in love with him.\n\nThe song was performed eleventh on the night, following Turkey's İzel Çeliköz, Reyhan Karaca & Can Uğurlür with \"İki Dakika\" and preceding Portugal's Dulce with \"Lusitana paixão\". At the close of voting, it had received 47 points, placing 10th in a field of 22. The song peaked at number #7 in the Irish Singles chart.\n\nIt was succeeded as Irish representative at the 1992 Contest by Linda Martin with \"Why Me?\".\n"}
{"id": "12132619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12132619", "title": "Danish Single European Act referendum, 1986", "text": "Danish Single European Act referendum, 1986\n\nA non-binding referendum on the Single European Act was held in Denmark on 27 February 1986. It was approved by 56.2% of voters, with a voter participation of 75.4%.\n\nThe referendum was held by the government of the Prime Minister of Denmark, Poul Schlüter. The government was in favour of Denmark ratifying the Single European Act, but a majority in parliament was against it. The referendum was the last Europe-related referendum in which parties such as the Social Democrats and the Social Liberal Party recommended against ratification.\n"}
{"id": "1219314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1219314", "title": "Economy of Asia", "text": "Economy of Asia\n\nThe economy of Asia comprises more than 4.5 billion people (60% of the world population) living in 49 different nation states. Six further states lie partly in Asia, but are considered to belong to another region economically and politically. Asia is the fastest growing economic region, as well as the largest continental economy by both GDP Nominal and PPP in the world. China, Japan, India, South Korea and Indonesia are currently the top five economies in Asia. Moreover, Asia is the site of some of the world's longest modern economic booms, starting from the Japanese economic miracle (1950–1990), Miracle on the Han River (1961–1996) in South Korea, Taiwan Miracle (1962-2012) in Taiwan, economic boom (1978–2013) in China and economic boom in India (1991–present).\n\nAs in all world regions, the wealth of Asia differs widely between, and within, states. This is due to its vast size, meaning a huge range of different cultures, environments, historical ties and government systems. The largest economies in Asia in terms of PPP gross domestic product (GDP) are China, India, Japan, South Korea, Indonesia, Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, Thailand, Pakistan, Malaysia and Philippines and in terms of nominal gross domestic product (GDP) are China, Japan, India, South Korea, , Indonesia, Turkey, Thailand, Taiwan, United Arab Emirates , Iran, Malaysia, Bangladesh and Singapore.\n\nWealth (if measured by GDP per capita) is mostly concentrated in the East Asia in territories of China, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, and Brunei, as well as in oil rich countries in West Asia such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, and Oman. Israel and, to a lesser extent Turkey are exceptions: both lie in the territory of Asia despite not often being counted as such. Israel (entrepreneurship on diversified industries) is a developed country, while Turkey (founding member of OECD) is an advanced emerging country. Asia, with the exception of Japan (heavy industry and electrical sophistication), South Korea (heavy industry and information and communication technology), Taiwan (light industry and hi-tech parts manufacturing), Hong Kong (financial industry and services) and Singapore (high-tech manufacturing, biotechnology, financial and business services, and tourism governed by Casino Regulatory Authority of Singapore) in recent years, is currently undergoing rapid growth and industrialization, and China (manufacturing and FDI-led growth) and India (commodities, outsourcing destination and computer software), the two fastest growing major economies in the world. East Asian and Southeast Asian countries generally rely on manufacturing and trade (and then gradually upgrade to industry and commerce), and incrementally building on high-tech industry and financial industry for growth, countries in the Middle East depend more on engineering to overcome climate difficulties for economic growth and the production of commodities, principally Sweet crude oil. Over the years, with rapid economic growth and large trade surplus with the rest of the world, Asia has accumulated over US$4 trillion of foreign exchange reserves – more than half of the world's total, and adding Tertiary sector of the economy and Quaternary sector of the economy to expand in the share of Asia's economy.\nThis is an alphabetically sorted list of Asian countries, with their factual and estimated gross domestic product data by the International Monetary Fund for 2017.\n\nChina and India alternated in being the largest economies in the world from 1 to 1800 AD China was a major economic power and attracted many to the east, and for many the legendary wealth and prosperity of the ancient culture of India personified Asia, attracting European commerce, exploration and colonialism. The accidental discovery of America by Columbus in search for India demonstrates this deep fascination. The Silk Road became the main East-West trading route in the Asian hitherland while the Straits of Malacca stood as a major sea route.\n\nPrior to World War II, most of Asia was under colonial rule. Only relatively few states managed to remain independent in the face of constant pressure exerted by European power. Such examples are China, Siam and Japan.\n\nJapan in particular managed to develop its economy due to a reformation in the 19th century. The reformation was comprehensive and is today known as the Meiji Restoration. The Japanese economy continued to grow well into the 20th century and its economic growth created various shortages of resources essential to economic growth. As a result, the Japanese expansion began with a great part of Korea and China annexed, thus allowing the Japanese to secure strategic resources.\n\nAt the same time, Southeast Asia was prospering due to trade and the introduction of various new technologies of that time. The volume of trade continued to increase with the opening of the Suez Canal in the 1860s. Manila had its Manila galleon wherein products from the Philippine islands and China were traded with Spanish America and Europe from 1571 to 1815. The Spanish colony of the Philippines was the first Asian territory to trade with the Americas, from Manila to Acapulco. The route continued overland across present-day Mexico to Veracruz on the Atlantic coast, then to Havana and Seville, forming the first global trade route. Silk, porcelain, ivory, tobacco, coconut and corn were some of the goods exported from Asia to the Americas and Europe, through the Philippines.\n\nSingapore, founded in 1819, rose to prominence as trade between the east and the west increased at an incredible rate. The British colony of Malaya, now part of Malaysia, was the world's largest producer of tin and rubber. The Dutch East Indies, now Indonesia, on the other hand, was known for its spices production. Both the British and the Dutch created their own trading companies to manage their trade flow in Asia. The British created the British East India Company while the Dutch formed Dutch East India Company. Both companies maintained trade monopolies of their respective colonies.\n\nIn 1908, crude oil was first discovered in Persia, modern day Iran. Afterwards, many oil fields were discovered and it was learnt later that the Middle East possesses the world's largest oil stocks. This made the rulers of the Arab nations very rich though the socioeconomic development in that region lagged behind.\n\nIn the early 1930s, the world underwent a global economic depression, today known as the Great Depression. Asia was not spared, and suffered the same pain as Europe and the United States. The volume of trade decreased dramatically all around Asia and indeed the world. With falling demand, prices of various goods starting to fall and further impoverished locals and foreigners alike. In 1931 Japan invaded Manchuria and subsequently the rest of China and south-east Asia in what eventually became the Asia-pacific leg of World War Two.\n\nFollowing World War II, the People's Republic of China and India, which account for half of the population of Asia, adopted socialist policies to promote their domestic economy. These policies limited the economic growth of the region. They are being abandoned in India and reformed in China. In contrast, the economies of Japan and the Four Asian Tigers (South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Hong Kong) were economic successes, and the only successful economies outside of the Western World. The success of these four economies led other Southeast Asian countries, namely Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, and Thailand to follow suit in opening up their economies and setting up export-oriented manufacturing bases that boosted their growth throughout the 1980s and the 1990s.\n\nOne of the most pronounced Asian economic phenomenons during this time, the Japanese post-war economic miracle, greatly impacted the rest of the world. After World War II, under central guidance from the Japanese government, the entire economy was undergoing a remarkable restructuring. Close cooperation between the government, corporations and banks facilitated easy access to much-needed capital, and large conglomerates known as \"keiretsu\" spurred horizontal and vertical integration across all industries, keeping out foreign competition. These policies, in addition to an abandonment of military spending, worked phenomenally well. Japanese corporations as a result exported and still export massive amounts of high quality products from \"the Land of the Rising Sun\".\n\nAnother amazing economic success story is that of South Korea's, also referred to as the Miracle on the Han River. The country was left impoverished after the Korean War, and until the early 1970s was among the world's poorest countries (even poorer than North Korea). However, it was since able to recover with double digit annual growth rates. Many conglomerates, also known as chaebols, such as Samsung, LG Corp, Hyundai, Kia, SK Group, and more grew tremendously during this period. South Korea has now become the most wired country in the world.\n\nTaiwan and Hong Kong experienced rapid growth up till the 1990s. Taiwan became, and still remains one of the main centers of consumer electronics R&D as well as manufacturing. However, unlike in Japan and South Korea, the bulk of Taiwan's economy is dependent on small to medium-sized businesses. Hong Kong, on the other hand, experienced rapid growth in the financial sector due to liberal market policies, with many financial institutions setting up their Asian headquarters in Hong Kong. Till today, Hong Kong has been ranked as the world's freest economy for many years running, and it remains among one of the world's top 5 leading financial centers.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, economic development was fueled by the growth of the bamboo network. The bamboo network refers to a network of overseas Chinese businesses operating in the markets of Southeast Asia that share common family and cultural ties. The network expanded as Chinese refugees emigrated to Southeast Asia following the Chinese Communist Revolution in 1949. Singapore in particular experienced very rapid economic growth after declaring independence in 1965, following a two-year federation with Malaysia. In addition to creating a conducive economic and political climate, the government developed the skills of its multi-racial workforce, and established export-oriented industries by encouraging foreign investors to set up regional operations in manufacturing. The government also played a prominent role in Singapore's growth as a major financial and business services centre. Singapore is today one of the richest countries in the world, both in terms of GNI per capita, and GDP (PPP) per capita.\n\nThis period was also marked by military conflict. Wars driven by the Cold War, notably in Vietnam and Afghanistan, wrecked the economies of these respective nations. When the Soviet Union collapsed in 1990–91, many Central Asian states were cut free and were forced to adapt to pressure for democratic and economic change. Also, several of the USSR's allies lost valuable aid and funding.\n\nThe Chinese economy boomed under the economic measures undertaken by Deng Xiaoping, in the late 1970s, and continuing under Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao in the 1990s and 2000s. After the liberalization of the economy of India, growth in India and China increasingly shifted the center of gravity of the global economy towards Asia. By the late 2000s, China's economic growth rate exceeded 11% while India's growth rate increased to around 9%. One of the factors was the sheer size of the population in this region.\n\nMeanwhile, South Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Singapore emerged as the Four Asian Tigers with their GDPs growing well above 7% per year in the 1980s and the 1990s. Their economies were mainly driven by growing exports. The Philippines only began to open up its stagnated economy in the early 1990s. Vietnam's economy began to grow in 1995, shortly after the United States and Vietnam restored economic and political ties.\n\nThroughout the 1990s, the manufacturing ability and cheap labor markets in Asian developing nations allowed companies to establish themselves in many of the industries previously dominated by companies from developed nations. By the dawn of the 21st century, Asia became the world's largest continental source of automobiles, machinery, audio equipment and other electronics.\n\nAt the end of 1997, Thailand was hit by currency speculators, and the value of the Baht along with its annual growth rate fell dramatically. Soon after, the crisis spread to the ASEAN region, South Korea and other countries in Asia, resulting in great economic damage on the affected countries (but with Japan and China both largely escaping the crisis). In fact, some of the economies, most notably those of Thailand, Indonesia, and South Korea actually contracted. By 1999, most countries had already recovered from the crisis. In 2001, almost all economies in both Europe and Asia were adversely affected by the September 11 attacks, with Indonesia and Japan was hardest. Both continents quickly recovered from the attacks in United States after more than a year.\n\nIn 2004, parts of Sumatra and South Asia were severely damaged by an earthquake and the subsequent tsunami. The tsunami wreaked havoc, causing massive damage in the infrastructure of the hit areas, particularly Indonesia, and displaced millions. For a short time, GDP contracted among nations such as Indonesia and Sri Lanka, despite massive inflow of foreign aid in the aftermath of the disaster.\n\nJapan suffered its worst post-World War II economic stagnation set in the early 1990s (which coincided with the end of Cold War), which was triggered by the latter event of Asian financial crisis in 1997. It, however, rebounded strongly in the early 2000s due to strong growth in exports, although unable to counteract China in 2005 after China gradually surpassed it as the largest economy in Asia.\n\nIn 2008, the Global Financial Crisis, triggered by the housing bubble in the United States, caused a significant decline in the GDP of the majority of the European economies. In contrast, most Asian economies experienced a temporary slowdown in their rates of economic growth, particularly Japan, South Korea, and China, resuming their normal growth soon after.\n\nThe Arab Spring since 2011 had caused economic malaise in Syria, Lebanon and Yemen, amongst the most adversely affected nations in the Middle East. At the same time, in the early 2010s, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait registered high GDP growths in the years that followed due to increased oil prices and further diversification of exports, as well as rising Foreign exchange reserves.\n\nIn 2013, in a once-in-a-decade party leadership reshuffle in China (change of Hu-Wen Administration to Xi-Li Administration), the Chinese economy experienced a significant slowdown in the GDP growth, slowing down from the unprecedented decades of 9–10% annual growth to around 7–8%, which has significant effect in some developing economies, particularly in Southeast Asia and India.\n\nThe Philippines, however, managed to grow at rates at par with China in the period 2012–2013, and became Asia's fastest-growing economy beginning 2014. It also recovered after getting hit by Typhoon Haiyan, the strongest storm on record to make landfall, in November 2013, which killed at least 5,200 and displacing millions more.\n\nOn September 29, 2013, China opened the Shanghai Free-Trade Zone. This free trade zone allows international trade to be conducted with fewer restrictions and lower customs duties. The zone is tax free for the first ten years to encourage foreign direct investment (FDI) with a 'negative list' used to regulate in which fields foreign investments are prohibited.\n\nAsia's large economic disparities are a source of major continuing tension in the region. While global economic powers China, Japan, India, continue powering through, and Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have entered the path to long-term growth, regions right next to these countries are in severe need of assistance.\n\nGiven the enormous quantity of cheap labor in the region, particularly in China and India, where large workforces provide an economic advantage over other countries, the rising standard of living will eventually lead to a slow-down. Asia is also riddled with political problems that threaten not just the economies, but the general stability of the region and world. The nuclear neighbors—Pakistan and India—constantly pose a threat to each other, causing their governments to invest heavily in military spending.\n\nYet another potential global danger posed by the economy of Asia is the growing accumulation of foreign exchange reserves. The countries/regions with the largest foreign reserves are mostly in Asia – China (Mainland – $2,454 billion & Hong Kong – $245 billion, June 2010), Japan ($1,019 billion, June 2009), Russia ($456 billion, April 2010), India ($400 billion, October 2017), Taiwan ($372 billion, September 2010), South Korea ($286 billion, July 2010), and Singapore ($206 billion, July 2010). This increasingly means that the interchangeability of the Euro, USD, and GBP are heavily influenced by Asian central banks. Some economists in the western countries see this as a bad thing, prompting their respective governments to take action.\n\nAccording to the World Bank, China surpassed the United States and the European Union to become the world's largest economy by early 2015, followed by India. Both countries are expected to rank in the same positions between 2020 and 2040. Moreover, based on Hurun Report, for the first time in 2012 Asia surpassed North America in amount of billionaires. More than 40 percent or 608 billionaires came from Asia, where as North America had 440 billionaires and Europe with 324 billionaires.\n\nFollowing a Third Plenum of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China in 2013 China revealed plans for several sweeping social and economic reforms. The government would relax its one-child policy to allow single-child parents to have two kids. This reform was implemented as a response to the aging population of China and provide more labor. The government also reformed the hukou system, allowing the labor force to become more mobile.\n\nThe reforms will make financial loan systems more flexible encouraging increased economic involvement of private firms. Additionally, state-owned enterprises will be required to pay higher dividends to the government. The benefits of this will go to Social Security. Reform also allows farmers to own land for the first time ideally encouraging farmers to sell their land and move to cities which will boost consumerism and increase urban work force.\n\nOn April 10, 2014, China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and Securities and Futures Commission (CSRC) made a Joint Announcement about the approval for the establishment of mutual stock market access between Mainland China and Hong Kong. Under the ‘Connect Program’, the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and Shanghai Stock Exchange will establish mutual order-routing connectivity and related technical infrastructure to enable investors to invest in Chinese equities market directly. On November 17, 2014, the program officially launched with the approvals from Beijing.\n\nThe 'Connect Program' is a groundbreaking initiative with significance to both Hong Kong and Mainland. It brings another opportunity for the growth of the Hong Kong securities market. More importantly, it provides, for the first time, a feasible, controllable and expandable channel to investors to invest in both Hong Kong and Mainland, in addition to current schemes including QDII, QFII, AND RDFII programs.\n\nThe Shanghai-Hong Kong Connect Program is open to all market participants, but those must satisfy all requirements prescribed by the exchange and regulators. The design of the program will ensure a minimal change of regulatory structure in each market as well as the ability to expand to other markets or other asset classes in the future.\n\nLocal government’s spending plays a critical role in China’s fiscal system. Following the 1991 intergovernmental fiscal reform, the central government’s share of total fiscal revenue increase from less than 30 percent to around 50 percent in 2012. Local governments are now responsible for infrastructure investment, service delivery and social spending, which together account for about 85 percent of the total expenditure. Without a rule to guide the distribution of intergovernmental expenditure responsibilities, significant levels of risk would be associated with the spending.\n\nChina’s central administration will impose hard caps on local government borrowing in order to control financial risks from an explosive level. Statistics showed that total debt had reached $3 trillion by the middle of 2013, raising total government debt to 58 percent of GDP. Similar jump occurred in corporate debt as well, which pushed China’s overall debt-GDP ratio up to 261% from 148% in 2008. IMF warned that rapid debt run-ups could lead to financial crisis.\n\nThe new rules are expected to be combined with broader fiscal reforms aimed at bringing local government tax revenue in line with expenditure. The central government will provide more guidance to local governments in terms of how to manage and invest wisely.\n\nAs of 2017, China boasts the world’s second largest economy by nominal GDP at a staggering $11.8 trillion. It has the largest manufacturing economy in the world, and is the largest exporter of goods. China is also the world’s largest producer and consumer of agricultural products. Unsurprisingly, China produces the most rice in the world, and is a key producer of wheat, corn, tobacco, soybeans, and potatoes, among others. The real estate industry in China has been a controversial subject, but, since 2010, China has had the largest real estate market in the world. Despite China’s focus on manufacturing, in the last two decades, China’s service sector has doubled in size, accounting for 46% of China’s total GDP. In 2011, the Chinese government instituted a five-year plan to prioritize the development of the service economy. The telecommunications sub-sector in China is the largest in the world, with over a billion mobile customers. Tencent, the developer of WeChat, is dominating Chinese mobile culture unlike anything in history has.\nIn 2015, China contributed a third of global GDP growth. China’s influence in the global economy is a force to be reckoned with, and, as more and more Chinese citizens are becoming bigger consumers, it would be no surprise if this continues for the foreseeable future.\n\nThe economic liberalisation in India refers to the ongoing economic liberalisation, initiated in 1991, of the country's economic policies, with the goal of making the economy more market-oriented and expanding the role of private and foreign investment. Specific changes include a reduction in import tariffs, deregulation of markets, reduction of taxes, and greater foreign investment. Liberalisation has been credited by its proponents for the high economic growth recorded by the country in the 1990s and 2000s. The overall direction of liberalisation has since remained the same, irrespective of the ruling party, although no party has yet solved a variety of politically difficult issues, such as liberalising labour laws and reducing agricultural subsidies.[1] There exists a lively debate in India as to what made the economic reforms sustainable.[2]\n\nThe Economy of India is the sixth-largest in the world by nominal GDP and the third-largest by purchasing power parity (PPP). The country is classified as a newly industrialized country, one of the G-20 major economies, a member of BRICS and a developing economy with an average growth rate of approximately 7% over the last two decades. Maharashtra is the richest Indian state and has an annual GDP of US$320 billion, nearly equal to that of Pakistan or Portugal, and accounts for 12% of the Indian GDP followed by the states of Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. India's economy became the world's fastest growing major economy from the last quarter of 2014, replacing the People's Republic of China.\n\nThe long-term growth prospective of the Indian economy is highly positive due to its young population, corresponding low dependency ratio, healthy savings and investment rates, and increasing integration into the global economy. The Indian economy has the potential to become the world's 3rd-largest economy by the next decade, and one of the largest economies by mid-century. And the outlook for short-term growth is also good as according to the IMF, the Indian economy is the \"bright spot\" in the global landscape. India also topped the World Bank’s growth outlook for 2015–16 for the first time with the economy having grown 7.3% in 2014–15 and expected to grow 7.5–8.3% in 2015-16.\n\nIndia has the one of fastest growing service sectors in the world with annual growth rate of above 9% since 2001, which contributed to 57% of GDP in 2012–13. India has capitalized its economy based on its large educated English-speaking population to become a major exporter of IT services, BPO services, and software services with $174.7 billion worth of service exports in 2017–18. It is also the fastest-growing part of the economy. The IT industry continues to be the largest private sector employer in India. India is also the fourth largest start-up hub in the world with over 3,100 technology start-ups in 2014–15 The agricultural sector is the largest employer in India's economy but contributes to a declining share of its GDP (17% in 2013–14). India ranks second worldwide in farm output. The Industry sector has held a constant share of its economic contribution (26% of GDP in 2013–14). The Indian auto mobile industry is one of the largest in the world with an annual production of 21.48 million vehicles (mostly two and three wheelers) in FY 2013–14. India has $600 billion worth of retail market in 2015 and one of world's fastest growing E-Commerce markets.\n\nIndia's two major stock exchanges, Bombay Stock Exchange and National Stock Exchange of India, had a market capitalization of US$1.71 trillion and US$1.68 trillion respectively as of Feb 2015, which ranks 11th & 12 largest in the world respectively according to the World Federation of Exchanges. India also home to world's third largest Billionaires pool with 97 billionaires in 2014 and fourth largest number of ultra-high-net-worth households that have more than 100 million dollars.\n\nIndia is a member of the Commonwealth of Nations, the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, the G20, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, the World Trade Organization, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, the United Nations and the New Development BRICS Bank.\n\nSuccessive Indian governments have been advised to continue liberalisation. Even though, in early years India grew at slower pace than China (however, since 2013 India has been growing faster than its northern counterpart in terms of percentage of GDP growth, although it should be noted that China's absolute growth still exeeds India by a large margin). The McKinsey Quarterly states that removing main obstacles \"would free India's economy to grow at 10% a year\".\n\nThere has been significant debate, however, around liberalisation as an inclusive economic growth strategy. Since 1992, income inequality has deepened in India with consumption among the poorest staying stable while the wealthiest generate consumption growth. As India's gross domestic product (GDP) growth rate became lowest in 2012–13 over a decade, growing merely at 5.1%,[6] more criticism of India's economic reforms surfaced, as it apparently failed to address employment growth, nutritional values in terms of food intake in calories, and also exports growth – and thereby leading to a worsening level of current account deficit compared to the prior to the reform period. But then in FY 2013–14 the growth rebounded to 6.9% and then in 2014–15 it rose to 7.3% as a result of the reforms put by the New Government which led to the economy becoming healthy again and the current account deficit coming in control. Growth reached 7.5% in the Jan–Mar quarter of 2015 before slowing to 7.0% in Apr–Jun quarter\n\nBy 2050, India’s economy is expected to overtake the US economy, putting it behind China in the world’s largest economies. Like China, agriculture makes up a large part of the Indian economy. As the Indian economy has grown, agriculture’s contribution to GDP has steadily declined, but it still makes up a large portion of the workforce and socio-economic development. India’s industrial manufacturing GDP output was the 6th largest in the world in 2015, largely due to petroleum products and chemicals. India’s pharmaceutical industry has also grown at a compound annual growth rate of 17.5% over the last 11 years, and is one of India’s fastest-growing sub-sectors today. However, the engineering industry in India is still the largest sub-sector by GDP.\nPerhaps the most exciting development in India is its incredibly fast-growing information technology and business process outsourcing sub-sector. Cities like Bangalore, Hyderabad rival the United States’s Silicon Valley in innovation and technological advancement as more and more skilled, tech-savvy students and young professionals are entering the entrepreneurial world.\n\nAbenomics is a policy named after, and implemented by the Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe. Following the global economic recession, the Prime Minister hoped to boost Japanese economy with \"three arrows\": massive fiscal stimulus, more aggressive monetary easing and structural reforms to make Japan more competitive. The stimulus package was 20.2 trillion yen ($210 billion) and the government also aimed to create 600,000 jobs in two years.\n\nThe Bank of Japan also aimed to raise inflation to 2% in part by buying up short-term government debts. Critics point out that hyperinflation and an unbalanced GDP/debt ration could be negative results of Abenomics. Furthermore, currency changes could aggravate international relations, especially those between China and Japan.\n\nThe Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) is a political, economic, security, military, educational and socio-cultural organization of countries located in Southeast Asia. Founded in 1967, its aim is to foster cooperation and mutual assistance among members. The countries meet annually every November in summits. The organisation serves as a central platform for cooperation and unity in Asia, its affliates created several trade blocs in the region, including Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, the world's largest trade bloc.\n\nThe current member countries of ASEAN are Myanmar (Burma), Laos, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Philippines, Malaysia, Brunei Darussalam, Singapore and Indonesia. East Timor and Papua New Guinea are given observer status.\n\nIn 2005, ASEAN was instrumental in establishing the East Asia Summit (involving all ASEAN members plus China, Japan, South Korea, India, Australia and New Zealand) which some have proposed may become in the future a trade bloc, the arrangements for which are far from certain and not yet clear.\n\nThe Asian Currency Unit (ACU) is a proposed currency unit for the ASEAN \"10+3\" economic circle. (ASEAN, the mainland of the People's Republic of China, India, Japan, and South Korea).\n\nThe Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) is a Eurasian political, economic, and security organisation, the creation of which was announced on 15 June 2001 in Shanghai, China, its members include China, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Russia, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan, India and Pakistan; the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Charter, formally establishing the organisation, was signed in June 2002 and entered into force on 19 September 2003. Known as the \"alliance of Asia\", it is the world's forefront regional organisation in economic power and political influence, one of the world's strongest military alliances, and the largest regional organisation in the world in terms of geographical coverage and population, covering three-fifths of the Eurasian continent and nearly half of the human population. At present, the SCO is one of the world's most powerful and influential organisations.\n\nThe Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership is a proposed free trade agreement (FTA) between the ten member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) (Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam) and the six states with which ASEAN has existing free trade agreements (Australia, China, India, Japan, South Korea and New Zealand). It is the world's largest trading bloc, covering nearly half of the global economy.\n\nRCEP negotiations were formally launched in November 2012 at the ASEAN Summit in Cambodia. The free trade agreement is scheduled and expected to be signed in November 2018 during the ASEAN Summit and Related Summit in Singapore, after the first RCEP summit was held on 14 November 2017 in Manila, Philippines. RCEP is viewed as an alternative to the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), a proposed trade agreement which includes several Asian and American nations but excludes China and India.\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Trade Agreement (APTA), formerly called the Bangkok Agreement, is the only trade agreement bringing together China and India, in addition to Bangladesh and the Republic of Korea, among others. The Secretariat of the agreement is provided by the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). While the agreement covers only a limited number of products, members agreed in 2009 to implement a Trade Facilitation Framework Agreement aimed at streamlining trade procedures between members.\n\nThe Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) is a group of Pacific Rim countries who meet with the purpose of improving economic and political ties. Although the initial intention was to create a free trade area covering all membership (which includes China, the United States and Australia, among others) this has failed to materialize. In 2014, APEC members committed to taking a concrete step towards greater regional economic integration by endorsing a roadmap for the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific (FTAAP) to translate this vision into a reality. As a first step, APEC is implementing a strategic study on issues related to the realization of a Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific. The study will provide an analysis of potential economic and social benefits and costs, analyze the various pathways towards a Free Trade Area and identify challenges economies may face in realizing this goal.\n\nThe Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), is a regional intergovernmental political and economic union founded in 1981. The current member states of GCC are Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe Closer Economic Partnership Arrangement (CEPA) is an economic agreement between the People's Republic of China, the Hong Kong SAR government (signed on 29 June 2003), and the Macau SAR government (signed on 18 October 2003), in order to promote trade and investment facilitation.\n\nThe main aims of CEPA are to eliminate tariffs and non-tariff barrier on substantially all the trade in goods between the three, and achieve liberalization of trade in services through reduction or elimination of substantially all discriminatory measures.\n\nThe Arab League is an association of Arab countries in Africa and Asia. The Arab League facilitates political, economic, cultural, scientific and social programs designed to promote the interests of its member states.\n\nThe Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) is a confederation consisting of 12 of the 15 states of the former Soviet Union, both Asian and European (the exceptions being the three Baltic states). Although the CIS has few supranational powers, it is more than a purely symbolic organization and possesses coordinating powers in the realm of trade, finance, lawmaking and security. The most significant issue for the CIS is the establishment of a full-fledged free trade zone / economic union between the member states, to be launched in 2005. It has also promoted cooperation on democratisation and cross-border crime prevention.\n\nThe South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) is an association of eight countries of South Asia, namely Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and, Sri Lanka. These countries comprise an area of 5,130,746 km² and a fifth of the world population.\nSAARC encourages cooperation in agriculture, rural development, science and technology, culture, health, population control, narcotics control and anti-terrorism.\nAlso , a FTA called South Asia Free Trade Agreement was reached at the 12th South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation summit. It created a framework for the creation of a free trade zone covering 1.6 billion people of member states.\n\nAsia is by a considerable margin the largest continent in the world, and is rich in natural resources. The vast expanse of the former Soviet Union, particularly that of Russia, contains a huge variety of metals, such as gold, iron, lead, titanium, uranium, and zinc. These metals are mined, but inefficiently due to the control of a few state-sponsored giants that make participation difficult for many international mining companies. Nevertheless, profits are high due to a commodity price boom in 2003/2004 caused largely by increased demand in China. Oil is Southwest Asia's most important natural resource. Saudi Arabia, Iraq, and Kuwait are rich in oil reserves and have benefited from recent oil price escalations.\n\nAsia is home to some four billion people, and thus has a well established tradition in agriculture. High productivity in agriculture, especially of rice, allows high population density of many countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan, southern China, Cambodia, India, and Vietnam. Agriculture constitutes a high portion of land usage in warm and humid areas of Asia.\n\nMany hillsides are farmed in a \"terrace\" method to boost arable land. The main agricultural products in Asia include rice and wheat. Opium is one of major cash crops in Central and Southeast Asia, particularly in Afghanistan, though its production is prohibited everywhere. Forestry is extensive throughout Asia, with many of the items of furniture sold in the developed nations made out of Asian timber. More than half of the forested land in Asia is in China, Indonesia, and Malaysia. China is considered a top exporter of wood products like paper and wood furniture while tropical timbers are a top export in Malaysia and Indonesia. Fishing is a major source of food, particularly in Japan and China. In Japan larger, high-quality fish are common while in China, smaller fish are being consumed at a higher rate. As the middle-class population in Southeast Asia expands, there is an increase of more expensive meats and foods becoming a part of the traditional diet.\n\nThe manufacturing sector in Asia has traditionally been strongest in the East Asia region—particularly in China, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and Taiwan. The industry varies from manufacturing cheap low value goods such as toys to high-tech value added goods such as computers, CD players, games consoles, mobile phones and cars. Major Asian manufacturing companies are mostly based in either South Korea or Japan. They include Samsung, Hyundai, LG, and Kia from South Korea, and Sony, Toyota, Toshiba, and Honda from Japan.\n\nMany developed-nation firms from Europe, North America, Japan and South Korea have significant operations in developing Asia to take advantage of the abundant supply of cheap labor. One of the major employers in manufacturing in Asia is the textile industry. Much of the world's supply of clothing and footwear now originates in Southeast Asia and South Asia, particularly in Vietnam, China, India, Thailand, Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Indonesia.\n\nAsia's top ten important financial centers are located in Hong Kong, Singapore, Tokyo, Shanghai, Beijing, Dubai, Shenzhen, Osaka, Seoul, Mumbai. India has been one of the greatest beneficiaries of the economic boom. The country has emerged as one of the world's largest exporters of software and other information technology related services. World class Indian software giants such as Infosys, Hindustan Computers Limited, Wipro, Mahindra Satyam and Tata Consultancy Services have emerged as the world's most sought after service providers.\n\nCall centers are also becoming major employers in Philippines due to the availability of many English speakers, and being a former American colony familiar with the American culture. The rise of the Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) industry has seen the rise of India and China as the other financial centers. Experts believe that the current center of financial activity is moving toward \"Chindia\" – a name used for jointly referring to China and India – with Shanghai and Mumbai becoming major financial hubs in their own right.\n\nOther growing technological and financial hubs include Dhaka (Bangladesh), Chennai (India), New Delhi (India), Pune (India), Bangalore (India), Hyderabad (India), Shenzhen (China), Kolkata (India), Jakarta (Indonesia), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Lahore (Pakistan), Metro Manila (Philippines), Cebu (Philippines) and Bangkok (Thailand).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1752169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1752169", "title": "Emblem of the African Union", "text": "Emblem of the African Union\n\nThe emblem of the African Union features a golden, boundary-less map of Africa inside two concentric circles, with stylised palm leaves shooting up on either side of the outer circle.\n\nAlthough when the AU was formed, a competition was announced for designing a new emblem and flag, the Assembly of the African Union decided at the Addis Ababa session of 2004 to retain the emblem and flag of its predecessor, the Organisation of African Unity, and adopt them as the new AU flag and emblem.\n\nThe palm leaves stand for peace. The gold circle symbolises Africa's wealth and bright future, while the green circle represents African hopes and aspiration for unity. The map of Africa, without boundaries, signifies African unity, while a series of small interlocking red rings at the base of the emblem stand for African solidarity and the blood shed for the liberation of Africa.\n\n"}
{"id": "3408613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3408613", "title": "Flag of Belgrade", "text": "Flag of Belgrade\n\nThe flag of Belgrade is composed of three Serbian national colours: red, blue and white. The blue symbolises hope and faith in better future. The red of the ground is a symbol of the suffering of Serbian people in a struggle for freedom. Two horizontal white lines represent the Sava and Danube rivers, which are symbols of the strength of Belgrade. They are white according to heraldry rules. \"Beograd\" is Serbian name for \"white city,\" so there are white walls and towers. The walls represent a merchant city; the towers and open gate represent an open market. The ship, a Roman trireme, is a symbol of the antiquity of the city.\n\nThe flag is a banner of the arms of Belgrade.\n\n"}
{"id": "41548051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41548051", "title": "Frischauf Lodge at Okrešelj", "text": "Frischauf Lodge at Okrešelj\n\nThe Frischauf Lodge at Okrešelj (; ) is a mountain lodge that stands above the Logar Valley in northern Slovenia. It is surrounded by the following peaks: Cold Mountain (), Styria Mount Rinka (), Carinthia Mount Rinka (), and Mount Turska (). Nearby is Rinka Falls. The lodge is named after Johannes Frischauf, and the first lodge was built in 1876 by an Austro-German hiking club. In 1907 it was destroyed by an avalanche and rebuilt again in 1908. In 1991 it was expanded and modernized.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44274160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44274160", "title": "Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk", "text": "Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk\n\nThe Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk (The Frisian Heraldry Board) is an advisory committee that provides advice on the coat of arms and flags of the government, the province Friesland, the municipalities, the water boards, the town and village coat of arms and the existing family coat of arms. The Fryske Rie foar Heraldyk is not a government body and has no legal duties or powers.\n\nThe Rie is part of the Fryske Akademy in Leeuwarden.\n\n"}
{"id": "13143162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13143162", "title": "Furst Gabriel or Last Days of the Pirita Monastery", "text": "Furst Gabriel or Last Days of the Pirita Monastery\n\nFurst Gabriel or Last Days of the Pirita Monastery () is an Estonian historical novelle by Eduard Bornhöhe.\n\nThis historical story, first published in 1893, is the last of Eduard Bornhöhe's historical novelles, as in 1893, the Russian Empire's censorship prohibited publication of historical novelles, fearing it might cause too strong patriotic feelings in provincial regions.\n\nThe story is set during a Livonian War era peasant uprising. A central plot device is a Catholic nunnery dedicated to St. Brigitta (see Pirita monastery). The monastery's medieval buildings are currently in ruins and considered a museum; however, the organisational structure was restored after end of Soviet occupation.\n\nWhile other major historical novelles by Eduard Bornhöhe have been included in lists of mandatory reading by Soviet authorities, this book was usually considered too long for that, and thus, it's mostly known through its extremely popular 1969 movie adaptation, \"Viimne reliikvia\" (Estonian for \"The last relic\") directed by Grigori Kromanov and adapted by Arvo Valton.\n"}
{"id": "38548115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38548115", "title": "Here We Go (PeR song)", "text": "Here We Go (PeR song)\n\n\"Here We Go\" is a song performed by Latvian band PeR, who represented Latvia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2013 in Sweden. The song didn't fare well and came last(17th) in the second semi-final with 13 points. This was the third time Latvia had come last in the semi-finals previously having done so in 2009 and 2010.\n"}
{"id": "33323520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33323520", "title": "Hiša groze", "text": "Hiša groze\n\nHiša groze is a novel by Slovenian author Janje Vidmar. It was first published in 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "58633670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58633670", "title": "Hule Mill Farm", "text": "Hule Mill Farm\n\nHule Mill Farm (Danish: Hule Møllegård) is a watermill situated a few kilometres to the southwest of Ledreborg, in Lejre Municipality, some 30 kilometres west of Copenhagen, Denmark. It was powered by a tributary of Kornerup Å.\n\nHule Møllegård traces its history back to the beginning of the 18th century. It was originally a three-winged complex but two of the wings have been demolished.\n\nThe surviving main wing is built in brick with dressed, half-timbered gables. The hip roof is thatched with straw and has several thatched dormer windows.\n\nThe stream runs in a pipe under the cobbled yard in front of the building. The site also comprises a ditch and a bridge across the mill pond to the west of the building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58450877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58450877", "title": "Højbrohus", "text": "Højbrohus\n\nHøjbrohus is an Art Nouveau-style building situated on the east side of Amagertorv, between Østergade and Store Kirkestræde, in the Old Town of Copenhagen, Denmark. It houses Café Norden in the two lower floors and a Hay flagship store on the second floor.\n\nStore Lækkerbidsken, a hotel, was built at the site in 1656. It developed into the leading place of accommodation in the city. The building was destroyedin the Copenhagen Fire of 1795. A new building with seven shops in the ground floor was completed at the site shortly thereafter, It became known as Peter Egholm's House (Isenkræmmer Peter Egholms\nGaard) after one of its owners..\nIt was demolished in the mid-190+s to make was for the current building, Højbrohus, which was built in 1896 to design by Richard Bergmann (1860-1925).\n\nHøjbrohus is built to an Art Nouveau-inspired design with many decorative details. A facade towards Amagertorv has a Dutch gable. The projecting central bay finishes in an onion domed spire, creating a tower-link silhouette against the rest of the building. The central \"tower\" is flanked by smaller, onion-domed turrets at the corners. The facade towards Amagertorv is also decorated with several relieds and other ornamental details. \n\nThe facades towards Østergade features a smaller Dutch gable as well as many other decorative details.\n\nCafe Norden occupies the two lower floors of the building. Hay House, a Gay flagship store, is located on the second floor (Østergade 61)\n\n"}
{"id": "13478075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13478075", "title": "IRIB Radio Payam", "text": "IRIB Radio Payam\n\nRadio Payam is a radio station in Iran. The name means \"message radio\" in Persian. It is a state owned radio station in Iran that mainly has music, traffic and general news.\n\n"}
{"id": "11965426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11965426", "title": "Kanal 9 (Serbia)", "text": "Kanal 9 (Serbia)\n\nKanal 9 is one of three regional television stations in Šumadija and Pomoravlje Region, operating in Kragujevac, Serbia The company started operating in 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "4778862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4778862", "title": "Kermadec Trench", "text": "Kermadec Trench\n\nThe Kermadec Trench is a linear ocean trench in the south Pacific Ocean. It stretches about from the Louisville Seamount Chain in the north (26°S) to the Hikurangi Plateau in the south (37°S), north-east of New Zealand's North Island. Together with the Tonga Trench to the north, it forms the -long, near-linear Kermadec-Tonga subduction system, which began to evolve in the Eocene when the Pacific Plate started to subduct beneath the Australian Plate. Convergence rates along this subduction system are among the fastest on Earth, /yr in the north and /yr in the south.\n\nIt is one of Earth's deepest oceanic trenches, reaching a depth of . Formed by the subduction of the Pacific Plate under the Indo-Australian Plate, it runs parallel with and to the east of the Kermadec Ridge and island arc. The Tonga Trench marks the continuation of subduction to the north.\n\nThe Kermadec Trench has a southern continuation in the turbidite-filled Hikurangi Trough, but a series of seamounts on the Australian Plate act as a dam and prevent this turbidity from reaching the sediment-starved Kermadec Trench. Debris from a larger subducted seamount probably dammed the trench from 2 Ma to 0.5 Ma and similar events probably redirected sediments in similar ways before that.\n\nTwo oceanic plates meet at the Kermadec Trench which is located far from any larger landmass. Because of this, the Pacific Plate as well as the trench itself is only covered by of sediments. The trench is almost perfectly straight and its simple geometry is the result of the uniformity of the subducting sea-floor. This sea-floor formed at the extinct Osbourn Trough, an abandoned spreading centre located just north of the Louisville Seamount Chain. Abyssal hills on the subducting sea-floor are oriented perpendicular to the old spreading centre and the sea-floor is 72–80 Ma near the Louisville seamounts at the northern end and more than 100 Ma near Hikurangi Plateau at the southern end. There are no seamounts on the sea-floor near the Kermadec Trench except one sitting on the trench slope at which has been dated to 54.8±1.9 Ma.\n\nThe Hikurangi Plateau formed part of the Ontong-Java-Manihiki-Hikurangi large igneous province (LIP) during the so-called Greater Ontong Java Event 120 . The Manihiki Plateau is currently subducting under the southern part of the Kermadec Arc but most of it has already been subducted. The LIP-arc collision occurred north of its present location, but oblique plate convergence has migrated the subducted plateau southward.\n\nIn 2012, deep sea researchers discovered individuals of a species of giant amphipod at the trench's lowest depths. Unlike most amphipods, which are approximately 2.5 cm (1 inch) long, this species reaches up to 34 cm (13 inches) in length, and are milky-white.\n\nThe second-deepest fish, the hadal snailfish \"Notoliparis kermadecensis\", is endemic to the trench and occupies a very limited depth range, .\n\nA species of pearlfish, \"Echiodon neotes\", has been caught in the Kermadec Trench at a depth of . All other known pearlfishes live in the range and the presence of \"E. neotes\" at this depth remains unexplained.\n\nIn May 2014, the \"Nereus\", an unmanned research submarine operated by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI), imploded due to high pressure at a depth of 9,990 metres while exploring the Kermadec Trench.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48916690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48916690", "title": "Kyiv Chamber Choir", "text": "Kyiv Chamber Choir\n\nThe Kyiv Chamber Choir () is a chamber choir based in Kiev, Ukraine. The choir was founded in December 1990 by conductor Mykola Hobdych. It has performed thousands of concerts in at least 21 countries. The choir also records music, releasing over 40 compact disks. More than half of these compositions were recorded for the first time. The choir has performed at renowned American venues such as Carnegie Hall, the National Cathedral, and the White House. The choir sings much of its music a cappella. Its repertoire includes well-known classical compositions, but also that of Ukrainian composers such as Mykola Lysenko, Mykola Leontovych, Kyrylo Stetsenko, Artem Vedel, and Mykola Diletsky.\n\nThe Kyiv Chamber Choir has done well in international choral competitions. These include first prizes in the 1st Schumann International Choral Competition in Zwickau in Germany, the 12th International competition of Choir Music in Poland, the 7th international Choirs Competition at Sligo in Ireland, and a second prize in Choir of the Year Competition.\n"}
{"id": "28332561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28332561", "title": "Kártyázó asszonyok", "text": "Kártyázó asszonyok\n\nKártyázó asszonyok is a Hungarian play written by Sándor Hunyady. It was first produced in 1939.\n"}
{"id": "51515001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51515001", "title": "Køge Museum", "text": "Køge Museum\n\nKøge Museum is a local history museum in Køge, Denmark.\n\nThe museum is based in a two-storey, half-timbered building from the 16th century. A long side wing to the rear of the main wing forms the last remains of a larger complex which surrounded two interior courtyards.\n\nTo the rear of the main wing is a garden with a small playground. It is accessible through the gate with ticket to the museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2671062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2671062", "title": "Liberal Party (Burundi)", "text": "Liberal Party (Burundi)\n\nThe Liberal Party (PL) is a small centrist, predominantly ethnic Hutu political party in Burundi.\n"}
{"id": "40632930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40632930", "title": "List of Americans under surveillance", "text": "List of Americans under surveillance\n\nThis is a list of some of the prominent U.S. citizens who are known to have been put under surveillance by the federal government of the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13071768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13071768", "title": "List of historical unrecognized states and dependencies", "text": "List of historical unrecognized states and dependencies\n\nThese lists of historical unrecognized or partially recognized \"states or governments\" give an overview of extinct geopolitical entities that wished to be recognized as sovereign states, but did not enjoy worldwide diplomatic recognition. The entries listed here had \"de facto\" control over their claimed territory and were self-governing with a desire for full independence; or if they lacked such control over their territory, they were recognized by at least one other recognized nation.\n\nThe criteria for inclusion in this list are similar to those of the list of states with limited recognition. To be included here, a polity must have claimed statehood, has not had recognition by at least one widely accepted state for a significant portion of its \"de facto\" existence, and either:\n\n\n\"Note: The tables can be sorted alphabetically or chronologically using the icon.\"\n\nThe total number of countries in the African continent is unknown due to the instability throughout the region. At present there are 54 sovereign countries and around 90 countries, territories and regions not recognized by the UN. One needs to take into account the fact that some countries are independent nations, and while they have geopolitical borders they are protectorates or territories (for example the Islands of St. Helena). Also, certain parts of Africa have a tendency towards political instability (more so than other continents); this means that from time to time countries split, merge and are renamed. Some examples include: The Republic of South Sudan, Algeria, Angola, Benin, Botswana and Burkina Faso. Since colonialism, African states have frequently been hampered by instability, corruption, violence, and authoritarianism. The vast majority of African states are republics that operate under some form of the presidential system of rule. However, few of them have been able to sustain democratic governments on a permanent basis, and many have instead cycled through a series of coups, producing military dictatorships.\n\nGreat instability was mainly the result of marginalization of ethnic groups, and graft under these leaders. For political gain, many leaders fanned ethnic conflicts, some of which had been exacerbated, or even created, by colonial rule. In many countries, the military was perceived as being the only group that could effectively maintain order, and it ruled many nations in Africa during the 1970s and early 1980s. During the period from the early 1960s to the late 1980s, Africa had more than 70 coups and 13 presidential assassinations. Border and territorial disputes were also common, with the European-imposed borders of many nations being widely contested through armed conflicts.\n\nA variety of causes have been blamed for Africa's political instability, including Cold War conflicts between the United States and the Soviet Union, over-reliance on foreign aid, decades of corruption and mismanagement by socialist leaders, as well as the policies of the International Monetary Fund. When a country became independent for the first time, it would often align itself with one of the two superpowers in order to get support. Many countries in Northern Africa received Soviet military aid, while many in Central and Southern Africa were supported by the United States, France or both. The 1970s saw an escalation, as newly independent Angola and Mozambique aligned themselves with the Soviet Union, and the West and South Africa sought to contain Soviet influence by funding insurgency movements. There was a major famine in Ethiopia, when hundreds of thousands of people starved. Some claimed that Marxist/Soviet policies made the situation worse. The most devastating military conflict in modern independent Africa has been the Second Congo War; this conflict and its aftermath have killed an estimated 5.5 million people.[66] Since 2003 there has been an ongoing conflict in Darfur which has become a humanitarian disaster. Another notable tragic event is the 1994 Rwandan Genocide in which an estimated 800,000 people were murdered. AIDS in post-colonial Africa has also been a prevalent issue.\n\nIn the 21st century, however, the number of armed conflicts in Africa has steadily declined. For instance, the civil war in Angola came to an end in 2002 after nearly 30 years. This has coincided with many countries abandoning communist style command economies and opening up for market reforms. The improved stability and economic reforms have led to a great increase in foreign investment into many African nations, mainly from China, which has spurred quick economic growth in many countries, seemingly ending decades of stagnation and decline. Several African economies are among the world's fastest growing as of 2011. A significant part of this growth can also be attributed to the facilitated diffusion of information technologies and specifically the mobile phone.\n\n"}
{"id": "43579461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43579461", "title": "List of museums in the Comoros", "text": "List of museums in the Comoros\n\nBelow is a list of museums in the Comoros.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54592385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54592385", "title": "Loerrach International", "text": "Loerrach International\n\nLoerrach International e.V. (registered society) is an association of citizens, educational, sport and cultural institutions, service clubs, municipal administration and local council in Lörrach in southwestern Germany. It has the goal of fostering relations with the town‘s partner towns. Its structure has long been a model for similar town partnership organisations in other European cities.\n\nAt the suggestion of Charles de Gaulle and Konrad Adenauer the then mayor of Loerrach Egon Hugenschmidt founded the first partnership with Sens in France in 1966. Under mayor Rainer Offergeld the partnership with Senigallia in Italy followed and in 1986 and under mayor Gudrun Heute-Bluhm in 2003 with Chester in England. Further partnerships have been established with Meerane in Saxony, Vyshhorod in the Ukraine und Lubliniec in Silesia. A special feature is the friendship with Edirne in Turkey, which arose from a citizens‘ initiative.\n\nLoerrach International was founded by Gudrun Heute-Bluhm as President and Manfred G. Raupp as Chairman on the 22nd of September 2004. The various fractions in the city council were each asked to nominate a representative and a deputy to the extended board of the society. \n\nWorking groups were set up for Sens, Senigallia, Chester, Meerane, and Eastern Europe, and the youth organisation SAK Lörrach, the town band, its schools (Hans-Thoma-Gymnasium Lörrach, Phaenovum Schülerforschungszentrum Lörrach-Dreiländereck) and the technical college DHBW Loerrach, sport and culture organisations and service clubs were invited to collaborate.\nOn his election to mayor in 2014 Jörg Lutz became ex officio president of the society. In September 2016 Susanne Daniel succeeded Manfred Raupp as chairperson.\n\nSince the society‘s foundation around 50 events involving the partner towns take place every year., the majority involving schools and youth groups from the partner towns.\n\nThe structure of the society brings together interested citizens, educational institutions, the local council and city administration. The president is ex officio the current mayor and the secretarial duties of the management committee is the responsibility of the representatives of the various town partnerships, but all other activities are carried out on a voluntary basis by those elected by the approximately 140 members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2248191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2248191", "title": "Maphilindo", "text": "Maphilindo\n\nThe Greater Malayan Confederation, or Maphilindo (for Malaysia, the Philippines, and Indonesia), was a proposed, nonpolitical confederation of the three Southeast Asian countries.\n\nThe original plan for a united state based on the concept of the Malay race was attempted by Wenceslao Vinzons during the Philippines' Commonwealth Era. Vinzons had envisioned a united Malay race which he termed Malaya Irredenta (later another name for the union). In his 1959 book \"Someday, Malaysia\", Major Eduardo Abdul Latif Martelino (later operations officer in the infamous Jabidah massacre) also cited the vision of then-President of the Philippines Manuel L. Quezon for an integrated, pan-Malayan nationhood in the region.\n\nMaphilindo was initially proposed as a realisation of Filipino national hero Dr. José Rizal dream of uniting the Malay peoples, seen as artificially divided by colonial frontiers. In July 1963, Quezon's later successor, President Diosdado Macapagal, convened a summit in Manila where the three countries signed a series of agreements to resolve controversies over the former British colonies of North Borneo and Sarawak joining Malaysia.\n\nWhile the union was described as a regional association that would approach issues of common concern, it was also perceived as a tactic employed by the Philippines and Indonesia to hinder the formation of the Federation of Malaysia as Malaya's successor state. The Philippines had its own claim over the eastern part of Sabah (formerly British North Borneo), while Indonesia protested the formation of Malaysia as a British imperialist plot.\n\nThe union was dismantled a month later when Sukarno, President of Indonesia, adopted a policy of \"Konfrontasi\" (Indonesian, \"confrontation\") with the newly constituted Malaysia. The aim of the Konfrontasi was to prevent Malaysia from achieving full sovereignty, and was introduced to President Sukarno by the Communist Party of Indonesia or PKI. The PKI had convinced President Sukarno that the formation of Malaysia was a form of neo-colonisation that will later affect Indonesian stability.\n\n"}
{"id": "9625451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9625451", "title": "Microsoft Egypt", "text": "Microsoft Egypt\n\nMicrosoft Egypt is a division of Microsoft which markets Microsoft products in Egypt.\n\nMicrosoft established a branch in Egypt in 1995 as an office representative, becoming a limited liability company in 1997.\n\nMicrosoft launched the Cairo Microsoft Innovation Center in September, 2007. It is located in the Smart Village near Cairo. Its mission is to work on concept-level research problems that are relatively short to market. It is headed by Tarek El-Abbadi, a long time Program Manager at the Microsoft Redmond office.\n\n"}
{"id": "30969346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30969346", "title": "Minhota", "text": "Minhota\n\nThe Minhota or Galega is a cattle breed from Portugal. The Brazilian Caracu breed is derived from the Minhota.\n\nCORPULANCE - Median.\nSKELETON - Strong and well covered with muscles.\nSKIN - Thick, inelastic, covered with hair straight, short, thick and rough.\nCOAT - More or less reddish, marbled with natural openings.\nHEAD - A bit long under the eyes, usually more right than on the convex bevel, wide forehead and slightly convex.\nCORNER - Medium size, elliptical section, white, flushed with the tips, going out almost horizontally to the sides, turning from a little behind, then turned forward and with the tips up and turned inside out at the last third of its length.\nBROW - Little salient.\nSCREWDRIVER PALBEBRAL - Slightly oblique.\nEYES - Surface expression and vaguely sad.\nEARS - High insertion, regular size and labeled on the inside with thick hair and long.\nFACES - Long and triangular.\nCHAMFER - usually straight, long, welded to the nose in circular dome.\nMUZZLE - Short and slightly convex on the outer edges.\nNECK - Short, thick, slightly drooping, some dewlap, slightly on top, but rather on the breastplate;\nWITHERS - Slightly protruding.\nRIBCAGE - high, but slightly arched.\nBACK - Almost straight and long.\nCHEST - Largo.\nSHOULDERS - Broad and muscular.\nBELLY - A little bulky.\nCROUP - High, the protruding hips and muscular.\nBUTTOCKS - Almost straight and regularly developed.\nTAIL - Long, set high and regularly hairy.\nUDDER - Regularly shaped and developed,\nPROFILE - Rectilinear the convex\nMEMBERS - Tall, slightly protruding from joints, terminated by large claws and strong.\n\nThe breed is almost exclusive to northern Portugal in Viana do Castelo District in Minho.\n\n"}
{"id": "30715676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30715676", "title": "National Business Center (Albania)", "text": "National Business Center (Albania)\n\nThe National Business Center () is the national agency of the Albanian government in charge of granting business licenses.\n"}
{"id": "54012455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54012455", "title": "Oceanpress", "text": "Oceanpress\n\nOceanpress (Portuguese meaning \"The Week\") is a weekly newspaper published in the island of Sal, Cape Verde and is headquartered in Santa Maria. It is the only newspaper in Sal. Its slogan includes Noticias de Cabo Verde which also features national stories on paper and online.\n\nThe newspaper published its first number in 2014 making it the newest newspaper publication in the archipelago.\n\n\"Oceanpress\" features top stories as well as sports from the island and across and outside the archipelago, weather, businesses, arts and entertainment and more, from the island as well as from Cape Verde. It features pages about news stories, newspaper pictures and sports online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34137189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137189", "title": "Physical presence test", "text": "Physical presence test\n\nIn international taxation, a physical presence test is a rule used to determine tax residence of a natural or legal person. It may rely on having a place of business in the jurisdiction (for legal persons), or remaining in or out of the jurisdiction for a certain number of days each year (for natural persons).\n\nThe \"physical presence in Australia test\" is one of the three tests under Australian law through which a charitable institution may be entitled to the income tax exempt charity endorsement; the others are the \"deductible gift recipient test\" and the \"prescribed by law\" test. The two elements of the test are whether the institution has a physical presence in Australia (wholly or through a division, branch, or subdivision) and whether or not the expenditures of institution are incurred principally in Australia. An institution may still qualify even if its expenditure is not incurred principally in Australia, provided that the amounts expended elsewhere are less than \"disregarded amounts\" (comprising gifts, proceeds from fundraising activities and government grants).\n\nThe South Africa Income Tax Act (No. 58 of 1962) in Section 1 defines a natural person as a \"tax resident\" if he is either ordinarily resident in South Africa, or meets the physical presence test. A natural person meets the physical presence test if he is present for more than 91 days during the year of assessment as well as a more than 91 days in each of the five preceding years, or if he was present for more than 915 days in aggregate in the preceding five years. However, a person who is absent from South Africa for more than 330 days following his previous day of presence will be deemed not to have been a tax resident since that day. Furthermore, a person who meets the physical presence test may still be deemed not to be a tax resident of South Africa if he is a tax resident of a country with which South Africa has a tax treaty for the avoidance of double taxation.\n\nThe United States uses a physical presence test both when determining eligibility of US citizens and permanent residents for favorable tax treatment for not being physically present in the US and conversely when determining when people who are not citizens or permanent residents are subject to US taxation. The former is covered in this section; the latter is covered in the article on the Substantial Presence Test.\n\nOne of the ways for US taxpayers to qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion is by passing the physical presence test. Meeting the test requires the taxpayer to reside in another country, living or working, for more than 329 full (24-hour) days in a 12-month period, including days spent in other foreign countries. An exception is available in the event of war or civil unrest that causes the taxpayer to leave.\n\nA less-than-24-hour visit to the US during travel between two points outside the U.S does not count as a break in a foreign stay.\n\nFour rules determine a 12-month period for the purposes of the physical presence test:\n\nA person who is present in the United States rather than abroad may still meet the physical presence test under the war and civil unrest exception. The Internal Revenue Service publishes a list of countries that qualify under the war/civil unrest exception and the respective dates during which the waiver applies.\n\nConversely, days spent in a foreign country by a person who is present there in violation of a US ban on travel to that country do not qualify for meeting the physical presence test (or the bona fide residence test). Income earned there does not qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion, and housing expenditures incurred there do not qualify for the foreign housing deduction. As of 2010, the only country in this category was Cuba (except the Guantanamo Bay corrections facility.)\n\nIncome earned abroad may qualify for the foreign earned income exclusion, the foreign housing exclusion or deduction, as long as the income is earned in the taxpayer's tax home and the taxpayer meets either the bona fide resident test or the physical presence test.\n\nThe income requirements for US ctizens and resident aliens living abroad are the same. However, foreign earned income may qualify for some amount of exclusion. One is to subtract the amounts that are estimated from the foreign earned income exclusion. Tax obligations may be reduced by subtracting the foreign housing exclusion but only from non-excluded income by using tax rates that would apply if the income were included.\n"}
{"id": "12091555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12091555", "title": "Polish Radio Katowice", "text": "Polish Radio Katowice\n\nPolish Radio Katowice () is the largest regional station of Polish Radio. It was created in 1927. It can be received in the Silesian Voivodeship and bordering entities.\n\n"}
{"id": "8531040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8531040", "title": "Presidential Palace of Cape Verde", "text": "Presidential Palace of Cape Verde\n\nThe Palácio da Presidência da República (Portuguese for \"Palace of the Presidency of the Republic\") is a public building in the city centre of Praia, the capital of Cape Verde. It is situated on Rua Serpa Pinto, at the south end of Plateau, the historic district of Praia. It was constructed around 1894 in neoclassical style as a residence of the Portuguese governor of Cape Verde. After Cape Verde gained independence in 1975, it became the presidential palace. \n\n"}
{"id": "23177031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23177031", "title": "Radio Télévision du Burkina", "text": "Radio Télévision du Burkina\n\nThe Radio Télévision du Burkina is the national broadcaster of the West African state of Burkina Faso. Radio Télévision du Burkina is headquartered in the capital city Ouagadougou.\n\nDuring the 2014 uprising, protesters stormed the building of the RTB, seized the technical equipment and stopped broadcasts of the TVB and RB.\n\n"}
{"id": "28826248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28826248", "title": "The Book of Proper Names", "text": "The Book of Proper Names\n\nThe Book of Proper Names () is a Belgian novel by Amélie Nothomb. It was first published in 2002. It is a romanticized account of the life of the singer RoBERT, whom Nothomb became acquainted with as an avid admirer of her songs.\nIn a vaguely surreal story, an extraordinary little girl is born from strange circumstances - her mother murdered her father, gave birth in prison, and then hanged herself. Plectrude, as the girl is unfortunately named by her mother, is adopted by her aunt and lives a fairy-like existence until she enrolls into the Paris Opera Ballet School, a rigorous institution portrayed as a \"scalpel to slice away the last flesh of childhood.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8834030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8834030", "title": "The End of Poverty", "text": "The End of Poverty\n\nThe End of Poverty: Economic Possibilities for Our Time () is a 2005 book by American economist Jeffrey Sachs. It was a \"New York Times\" bestseller.\n\nIn the book, Sachs argues that extreme poverty—defined by the World Bank as incomes of less than one dollar per day—can be eliminated globally by the year 2025, through carefully planned development aid. He presents the problem as an inability of very poor countries to reach the \"bottom rung\" of the ladder of economic development; once the bottom rung is reached, a country can pull itself up into the global market economy, and the need for outside aid will be greatly diminished or eliminated.\n\nIn order to address and remedy the specific economic stumbling blocks of various countries, Sachs espouses the use of what he terms \"clinical economics\", by analogy to medicine. Sachs explains that countries, like patients, are complex systems, requiring differential diagnosis, an understanding of context, monitoring and evaluation, and professional standards of ethics. Clinical economics requires a methodic analysis and \"differential kapay\" of a country's economic problems, followed by a specifically tailored prescription. Many factors can affect a country's ability to enter the world market, including government corruption; legal and social disparities based on gender, ethnicity, or caste; diseases such as AIDS and malaria; lack of infrastructure (including transportation, communications, health, and trade); unstable political landscapes; protectionism; and geographic barriers. Sachs discusses each factor, and its potential remedies, in turn.\n\nIn order to illustrate the use of clinical economics, Sachs presents case studies on Bolivia, Poland, and Russia, and discusses the solutions he presented to those countries, and their effects. The book also discusses the economies of Malawi, India, China, and Bangladesh as representative of various stages of economic development.\n\nSachs places a great deal of emphasis on the United Nations' Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) as a first step towards eliminating extreme poverty, which affected approximately 1.1 billion people worldwide at the time of publication. Sachs headed the United Nations Millennium Project, which worked from 2002 to 2005 to establish the organizational means to achieve the MDGs.\n\nHe also offers some specific, immediate solutions, such as increasing the availability of anti-malarial bed nets in sub-Saharan Africa, and encourages debt cancellation for the world's poorest countries. Sachs states that in order to achieve the goal of eliminating global poverty, clinical economics must be backed by greater funding; he argues that development aid must be raised from $65 billion globally as of 2002 to between $135 and $195 billion a year by 2015.\n\nSachs argues that the developed world can afford to raise the poorest countries out of extreme poverty; he agrees with the MDG's calculation that 0.7 percent of the combined gross national product of first-world countries would be sufficient to achieve that goal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5487983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5487983", "title": "Vostok traverse", "text": "Vostok traverse\n\nThe Vostok traverse was a 3000 kilometre four-month trip across Antarctica undertaken by ANARE the Australian National Antarctic Research Expedition in 1962. Using two bright red painted 1943 World War II M29 Weasel tracked vehicles and two 1950 D4 Caterpillar Inc. tractors the 6-man expedition left Wilkes Base on the coast for the Russian Vostok Station deep in the Antarctic interior. Much of the journey was over previously unexplored territory. The Weasels achieved 2 miles to the gallon and the tractors one mile per gallon, so a fuel dump was requested from the American McMurdo Station.\n\nNavigating across the featureless landscape was accomplished by a lead Weasel fitted with a Pioneer compass suspended in front of the vehicle on an aluminium frame. This was done to prevent the steel of the vehicle swamping the weak natural magnetic field close to the pole. The lead Weasel had two oblique mirrors, one in front of the driver facing upwards and the other positioned above the first and facing downwards and backwards. By keeping a bead on the following vehicles and the bamboo guide posts left at two and a half mile intervals, it was found the vehicles could keep a very straight path.\n\nWhen they arrived they found the Russians had evacuated the station 12 months beforehand in such haste that food had been left half cooked on the stove. The generators were started up and the snap-frozen steaks were finished upon which the team feasted. The trip ranks as one of Australia's most historic traverses.\n"}
