{"id": "226376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226376", "title": "1643 in literature", "text": "1643 in literature\n\nThis article presents lists of the literary events and publications in 1643.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1745072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1745072", "title": "2005 in art", "text": "2005 in art\n\nThe year 2005 in art involves various significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30373618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30373618", "title": "32 Postkarten", "text": "32 Postkarten\n\n32 Postkarten is a literature and art project that has been devised and coordinated by Torkel S. Wächter. It retells the story of a German-Jewish family from the outbreak of the Second World War to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. The authentic postcards, with English and German translations, and commentaries, are being published on the Internet from March 2010 in ‘simulated real time’ - on the date they were written, but 70 years later - at www.32postkarten.com.\n\nIt all started ten years ago, when Mr Wächter discovered a number of packing cases in an attic in Stockholm. They contained letters, diaries, old exercise books, newspaper cuttings and a cigar box with black-and-white photographs inside. And above all, in a plastic bag, the 32 postcards written by Mr Wächter's grandparents in Hamburg and posted to his father in Sweden just before the Holocaust. \n\nGiven its postcard-length format, the material is well suited for the teaching of secondary and tertiary level history and German in schools. The material will remain available online well after the publication of the last postcard in December 2011.\n\nIn March 2014 32 Postkarten - Post aus Nazi-Deutschland, , will be published by ACABUS-Verlag. \n\n"}
{"id": "19620241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620241", "title": "ASSITEJ", "text": "ASSITEJ\n\nASSITEJ, the International Association of Theatre for Children and Young People, () was established in 1965 as an international alliance of professionals involved in theatre for children and young people. There are 83 national centres globally. The President of ASSITEJ is Yvette Hardie.\n\nASSITEJ facilitates worldwide access and the exchange of ideas and cultural traditions for professionals involved in theatre for children and young people.\n\nThe ASSITEJ World Congresses have been held in Warsaw, Prague, Lyon, Madrid, Adelaide, Seoul, Rostov on Don, Tromsø, Albany, etc.\n\nASSITEJ is affiliated with several practitioner networks, including the International Inclusive Arts Network (IIAN) and the International Theatre for Young Audiences Research Network (ITYARN). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15868613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15868613", "title": "Aurora (2006 film)", "text": "Aurora (2006 film)\n\nAurora is a Ukrainian film by Oksana Bairak. It was premiered on November 30, 2006. \n\nThe film is about a little girl named Aurora who suffered as a result of the Chernobyl disaster of 1986. Aurora is taken to the United States where she is supposed to get surgery. She meets a man with a ruined life and helps him become a refined character.\n\nThe lead role was played by a Nastya Zyurkalova, a fifteen-year-old actress from Kiev, the capital of Ukraine. The international cast included Dmytro Kharatyan, from Russia, and Eric Roberts, from the United States.\n\nThe film was nominated as Ukraine's entry for an Oscar as \"Best foreign language film\".\n\nIn 2007 and 2008 the main music theme of the movie, also called \"Aurora\", was used by the Ukrainian rhythmic gymnast Anna Bessonova for her hoop routine, giving her exercise a dramatic quality that was applauded by spectators of the sport.\n\n"}
{"id": "53476296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53476296", "title": "Ballochmyle cup and ring marks", "text": "Ballochmyle cup and ring marks\n\nThe Ballochmyle cup and ring marks were first recorded at Ballochmyle (NS 5107 2552), Mauchline, East Ayrshire, Scotland in 1986, very unusually carved on a vertical red sandstone cliff face, forming one of the most extensive areas of such carvings as yet found in Britain. They have been designated a scheduled ancient monument. \n\nThese carvings or petroglyphs were first recorded in 1986 (although a '1751' carved date suggests an earlier discovery) when the Kingencleugh Estate decided to clear an area of vegetation along the north side of the Liddell Burn that is a minor tributary stream of the River Ayr in an area famous for its quarrying of red sandstone. The removal of vegetation exposed the carvings that are distributed across two faces of a vertical outcrop of rock and they were reported to the Dick Institute in Kilmarnock. The presence of possible medieval carvings, the extensive quarrying with numerous workmen employed in the area, especially during the construction of the Ballochmyle Viaduct, emphasises how surprising it is that these glyphs were overlooked for so long, especially as they are only about 2 km south-east of Mauchline's town centre.\n\nThe rock here is described as being a \"pink dessert sandstone from the Permian age showing clear signs of dune bedding\". The cup and ring marks are composed of two 'panels' with several hundred 'cup and ring' and other glyphs or carvings in a range of styles, ranging from single shallow cups through to deeper cups with multiple rings. Less common, but unique in the Scottish context are ‘square with cup’ carvings; ‘ringed stars’ are also present. Three deer-like carvings and some other inscriptions with Lombardic style letters were also carved into the rockface and these are thought to be medieval in date.\n\nSeveral feet of soil were removed from the bottom of the corner that divides the two main halves of the site and this uncovered three 'trilithon-like' carvings and others may await discovery where the soil has not been removed. The carvings were protected by the vegetation and began to deteriorate after this was removed and in addition vandalism and theft of a panel has taken place. It is likely that they were historically hidden from direct view by trees and shrubs.\n\nThe Ballochmyle glyphs or motifs are carved on red sandstone, however they are found elsewhere on other sedimentary rocks such as Millstone Grits, as well as the harder igneous and metamorphic rocks such as granites and schists.\n\nThe basic 'cup' is the most common carving however a wide range of glyphs exist with single to multiple concentric circles that are sometimes cut through in various ways by channels, etc. Where concentric rings exist the central cup often appears to dominate in depth and size suggesting that they were subject to repeated reworking over a period of time. Some incomplete or poorly formed glyphs exist here suggesting that different persons were involved in making them and frequent overlays of existing glyphs with either 'cups' or 'cup rings' suggests that they were created over an extended period of time.\n\nStudies suggest that distinct stylistic groupings may be present with one panel area having simple cups and cups with grooves, whilst another area has predominately bold cups with multiple concentric rings. An area with an apparent Lombardic style lettering may read 'ASAID' with two or three unreadable leading letters and a likely lost section. The final element is a date '1751' that is considered authentic but did not lead to further recorded investigation.\n\nEvidence suggests that cup and ring art was created from the Neolithic through to the Bronze Age, that is approximately 4000 BC to 1500 BC.\n\nCup and ring mark stones are frequently found throughout Britain, with over 2500 sites in England alone, however an unusual feature of those at Ballochmyle is that they have been carved on nearly or actual vertical surfaces rather than horizontal and often 'altar-like' exposed stone outcrops. These types of carvings were created using 'hammerstones' or 'peckers', examples of these have been found elsewhere, hitting the surface of the rock repeatedly or using a grinding motion until the desired design was formed Some of the long grooves appear to be a series of cups that were then joined together. The soft nature of the stone at Ballochmyle gives insights into how the glyphs were created with many small holes that could not have been formed by a hammering action.\n\nThe contrast with the original rock surface and the effect of shadow and rain usually makes the markings stand out however hints of the use of coloured pigments have been found at other sites and such things as animal fat, charcoal, plants dyes, etc. could have been used during various types of ceremonies to enhance the glyphs or as part of their cultural use.\n\nThe frequency and widespread use of the same glyphs or motifs indicates that they had definite interpretive meanings and significance to the cultures that created them and these developed and then persisted over thousands of years. The locations indicate that these carvings were mostly for public display and not usually intended as part of secret practices where the fact that they were hidden was important.\n\nIt may be relevant that the Ballochmyle area has both spectacular geological formations and geographical features in addition to the presence of a significant liminal zone in the form of a major watercourse, the River Ayr. Carvings into rocks can have deeper meanings such as with the carved footprint Petrosomatoglyphs at Dunadd in Argyll, linking a person literally to the land. The concept of the Anima locus is pertinent here, that is the 'soul' of a place, its essential personality as perceived in the imagination and emotions of visitors. A concept linked to the belief in supernatural spirits of nature as residing in stones, springs, mountains, islands, trees, etc. A form of religious significance linked to life and death, past and present, real and spiritual worlds, etc. has been proposed.\n\nA significant factor is that, as previously stated, they were created from Neolithic through to the Bronze Age, that is approximately 4000 BC to 1500 BC and they ceased when the Celtic Culture began to dominate and suppress older cultural practices. During this time smaller nomadic groups that might visit certain sites seasonally developed into sedentary communities with hierarchical leadership structures and specific communal religious practices.\n\nMany 'galleries' of cup and ring mark art are in prominent places within the landscape, such as river gorges, waterfalls, outcrops, caves, etc. and it has been suggested that they may have defined territorial boundaries, either for a locality or for a significant land holding. Few prehistoric track ways have been positively identified however some link with the more practical aspects of Ley lines may be indicated by the observation that cup and ring art is sometimes found overlooking natural harbours, on prominent natural landscape features, in mountain passes, along valley sides, at the entrances to inland routes, etc.\n\nIt is thought that natural features of the rock faces may influence the cup and ring mark sizes, distribution and type in addition to 'framing' the carvings. Fissures, grooves, wind erosion marks, cracks, dune bedding, etc. may all have been regarded by the Cup and ring mark carvers as significant and meaningful in their own right to be copied, enhanced, removed or incorporated as possibly the work of their 'ancestors' or even the works of the gods themselves.\n\nSome cup and ring mark panels may have only been used seasonally and the varying level of complexity at sites has been interpreted as being both more and less significant in terms of the level of meaning present.\n\nThe universality of cup and ring markings suggest a commonality of the origins of such glyphs that may relate to natural phenomena that are deemed significant, such as the concentricles that form on water when an object or offering is placed in it and although this may have been interpreted differently by the many cultures involved, the liminality with associated themes of thresholds and communication with the 'other side' may be one explanation for the use of cup and rings rather than the extensive use of glyphs such as ovals, boxes, triangles, star-shapes, etc.\n\nIn 2015 AOC Archaeology group were employed by the Forestry Commission Scotland to carry out a survey of laser scanning and photogrammetry on the Ballochmyle cup and ring marks. Laser scanning recorded the glyphs in 3D in minute detail, taking millions of measurements. The Photogrammetry involved photographing the site from many different angles and then bringing the data together to create a 3D model. The RCAHMS carried out a survey on behalf of Historic Scotland in 1987 and a series of drawings were lodged with what is now Historic Environment Scotland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2032300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2032300", "title": "Buskin", "text": "Buskin\n\nA buskin is a knee- or calf-length boot made of leather or cloth which laces closed, but is open across the toes. It was worn by Athenian tragic actors, hunters, and soldiers in Ancient Greek, Etruscan, and Roman societies.\nThe word buskin, only recorded in English since 1503 meaning \"half boot\", is of unknown origin, perhaps from Old French \"brousequin\" (in modern French \"brodequin\") or directly from its Middle Dutch model \"brosekin\" \"small leather boot\". Figurative senses relating to tragedy are from the word being used (since 1570) to translate Greek kothornos () or Latin cothurnus, the high, thick-soled boot worn in Athenian tragedy; contrasted with sock (from Latin soccus), the low shoe worn by comedians.\n\nByzantine emperors were formally clad in purple buskins, embroidered in gold with double-headed eagles.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, buskins are ceremonial liturgical stockings (\"caligae\" in Latin) of silk, sometimes interwoven with gold threads and even heavily embroidered, formerly worn by the celebrant of a pontifical Mass. The buskins can be worn over the episcopal sandals, regular dress socks with regular dress shoes, or over the red papal shoes worn by the Pope.\n\nOriginally liturgical buskins were worn by all priests, until about the eighth century when they were reserved for the exclusive use of bishops as part of the pontificalia, i.e. episcopal \"regalia\", a privilege in modern times extended to some lesser prelates. In liturgical colour they correspond to the chasuble, but are never worn with black.\n"}
{"id": "1313355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313355", "title": "Christian Dior SE", "text": "Christian Dior SE\n\nChristian Dior SE (), commonly known as Dior, is a European luxury goods company controlled and chaired by French businessman Bernard Arnault, who also heads LVMH – the world's largest luxury group. Dior itself holds 42.36% shares of and 59.01% voting rights within LVMH.\n\nFounded in 1948 by the eponymous designer Christian Dior, today the company designs and retails ready-to-wear, leather goods, fashion accessories, footwear, jewelry, timepieces, fragrance, makeup, and skincare products while also maintaining its tradition as a creator of recognized haute-couture (under the \"Christian Dior Couture\" division). While the Christian Dior label remains largely for women's offerings, the company also operates the \"Dior Homme\" division for men and the \"baby Dior\" label for children's wear. Products are sold throughout its portfolio of retail stores worldwide, as well as through its online store.\n\nThe House of Dior was established on 16 December 1946 in \"a private house\" at 30 Avenue Montaigne Paris B. However, the current Dior corporation celebrates \"1947\" as the opening year. Dior was financially backed by wealthy businessman Marcel Boussac. Boussac had originally invited Dior to design for Philippe et Gaston, but Dior refused, wishing to make a fresh start under his own name rather than reviving an old brand. The new couture house became a part of \"a vertically integrated textile business\" already operated by Boussac. Its capital was at FFr 6 million and workforce at 80 employees. The company was really a vanity project for Boussac and was a \"majorly owned affiliate of Boussac Saint-Freres S.A. Nevertheless, Dior was allowed a then-unusual great part in his namesake label (legal leadership, a non-controlling stake in the firm, and one-third of pretax profits) despite Boussac's reputation as a \"control freak\". Dior's creativity also negotiated him a good salary.\n\nOn 12 February 1947, Dior launched his first fashion collection for Spring–Summer 1947. The show of \"90 models of his first collection on six mannequins\" was presented in the salons of the company's headquarters at 30 Avenue Montaigne. Originally, the two lines were named \"Corolle\" and \"Huit\". However, the new collection went down in fashion history as the \"New Look\" after the editor-in-chief of \"Harper's Bazaar\" Carmel Snow exclaimed, \"It's such a new look!\" The New Look was a revolutionary era for women back in the forties. When the collection was presented, the editor in chief also showed appreciation by saying; \"It’s quite a revolution, dear Christian!\" The debut collection of Christian Dior is credited with having revived the fashion industry of France. Along with that, the New Look brought back the spirit of haute couture in France as it was considered glamorous and young-looking.\"We were witness to a revolution in fashion and to a revolution in showing fashion as well.\" \nThe silhouette was characterised by a small, nipped-in waist and a full skirt falling below mid-calf length, which emphasised the bust and hips, as epitomized by the 'Bar' suit from the first collection. The collection overall showcased more stereotypically feminine designs in contrast to the popular fashions of wartime, with full skirts, tight waists, and soft shoulders. Dior retained some of the masculine aspects as they continued to hold popularity through the early 1940s, but he also wanted to include more feminine style.\n\nThe New Look became extremely popular, its full-skirted silhouette influencing other fashion designers well into the 1950s, and Dior gained a number of prominent clients from Hollywood, the United States, and the European aristocracy. As a result, Paris, which had fallen from its position as the capital of the fashion world after WWII, regained its preeminence. The New Look was welcomed in western Europe as a refreshing antidote to the austerity of wartime and de-feminizing uniforms, and was embraced by stylish women such as Princess Margaret in the UK. According to Harold Koda, Dior credited Charles James with inspiring The New Look. Dior's designs from the \"New Look\" did not only affect the designers in the 1950s, but still some of the newer designers we know from now in the 2000s, including Thom Browne, Miuccia Prada, and Vivienne Westwood. Dior's evening dresses from that time are still referred to by many designers, and they have been seen in different wedding themed catwalks with multiple layers of fabric building up below the small waist (Jojo, 2011). Examples include Vivienne Westwood’s Ready-to-Wear Fall/Winter 2011 and Alexander McQueen's Ready to Wear Fall/Winter 2011 (Jojo, 2011).\n\nNot everyone was pleased with the New Look, however. Some considered the amount of material to be wasteful, especially after years of cloth rationing. Feminists in particular were outraged, feeling that these corseted designs were restrictive and regressive, and that they took away a woman's independence. Fellow designer Coco Chanel remarked, \"Only a man who never was intimate with a woman could design something that uncomfortable.\" Despite such protests, the New Look was highly influential, continuing to inform the work of other designers and fashion well into the 21st century. For the 60th anniversary of the New Look in 2007, John Galliano revisited it for his Spring-Summer collection for Dior. Galliano used the wasp waist and rounded shoulders, modernised and updated with references to origami and other Japanese influences. In 2012 Raf Simons revisited the New Look for his debut haute couture collection for Dior, wishing to update its ideas for the 21st century in a minimalist but also sensual and sexy manner. Simons's work for Dior retained the luxurious fabrics and silhouette, but encouraged self-respect for the woman's body and liberation of expression. The design process for this collection, which was produced in only eight weeks, is documented in \"Dior and I\", presenting Simons's use of technology and modernist re-interpretations.\n\nThe \"New Look\" of Christian Dior was an international success in the late 1940s. His designs were an up to date elegant look, which no one had seen before. He wanted to make women as graceful and ladylike as possible showing women's figures. He brought femininity to an extreme, which completely overthrew the fashion from the 1920s and 1930s. After the launch of his collection, Christian Dior became one of the most famous people in the world of fashion. The most important part was that they could be worn successfully by women with all body shapes.\n\n\"Dior\" has never lost the elegant look, even after Christian Dior died, the brand kept on the idea of the elegance and high end looks. It always brought out women's beauty and showed it to the whole world with wearing the designs. One of the most important part of his designs is that it is fully showing women's body curves to make it as feminine as possible, and no matter what kind of body shape it is, it can always fit into his designed curves perfectly.\n\nAvailable references contradict themselves whether \"Christian Dior Parfums\" was established in 1947 or 1948. The Dior corporation itself lists the founding of Christian Dior Parfums as 1947, with the launch of its first perfume, \"Miss Dior\". Dior revolutionized the perfumery industry with the launch of the highly popular \"Miss Dior parfum\", which was named after Catherine Dior (Christian Dior's sister). Christian Dior Ltd owned 25%, manager of Coty perfumes held 35%, and Boussac owned 40% of the perfume business, headed by Serge Heftler Louiche. Pierre Cardin was made head of the Dior workshop from 1947 until 1950. In 1948, a New York City Christian Dior Parfums branch was established—this could be the cause of establishment-date issue. The modern Dior corporation also notes that \"a luxury ready-to-wear house is established in New York at the corner of 5th Avenue and 57th Street, the first of its kind,\" in 1948. In 1949, the \"Diorama\" perfume is released and by 1949, the New Look line alone made a profit FFr 12.7 million.\n\nExpansion from France began by the end of 1949 with the opening of a Christian Dior boutique in New York City. By the end of the year, Dior fashions made up 75% of Paris's fashion exports and 5% of France's total export revenue.\n\nIn 1949, Douglas Cox from Melbourne, Australia, travelled to Paris to meet with Christian Dior to discuss the possibility of having Dior pieces made for the Australian market. Christian Dior and Douglas Cox signed a contract for Dior to produce original designs and for Douglas Cox to create them in his Flinders Lane workshop. A young Jill Walker, still in her mid teens, was one of the many workers for Douglas Cox, a couture label now in the headlines in Australian newspapers almost daily. Jill would go onto forming a couture legacy in Melbourne with popular labels such as Jinoel and Marti with husband Noel Kemelfield. The agreement between Dior and Douglas Cox really put Australian dressmaking on the global stage, yet ultimately the 60 Dior models proved to be too avant-garde for the conservative Australian taste. Douglas Cox was unable to continue the contract beyond the single 1949 season making these Dior-Cox couture pieces some of the most rare collectors items in Australian couture.\n\nIn 1950, Jacques Rouët, the general manager of Dior Ltd, devised a licensing program to place the now-renowned name of \"Christian Dior\" visibly on a variety of luxury goods. It was placed first on neckties and soon was applied to hosiery, furs, hats, gloves, handbags, jewelry, lingerie, and scarves. Members of the French Chamber of Couture denounced it as a degrading action for the haute-couture image. Nevertheless, licensing became a profitable move and began a trend to continue \"for decades to come\", which all couture houses followed.\n\nAlso in 1950, Christian Dior was the exclusive designer of Marlene Dietrich's dresses in the Alfred Hitchcock film \"Stage Fright\". In 1951, Dior released his first book, \"Je Suis Couturier\" (\"I am a Couturier\") through publishers Editions du Conquistador. Despite the company's strong European following, more than half of its revenue was generated in the United States by this time. Christian Dior Models Limited was created in London in 1952. An agreement was made between the Sydney label House of Youth for Christian Dior New York models. Los Gobelinos in Santiago, Chile, made an agreement with Dior for Christian Dior Paris Haute Couture. The first Dior shoe line was launched in 1953 with the aid of Roger Vivier. The company operated firmly established locations in Mexico, Cuba, Canada, and Italy by the end of 1953. As popularity of Dior goods grew, so did counterfeiting. This illegal business was supported by women who could not afford the luxury goods.\n\nBy the mid-1950s, the House of Dior operated a well-respected fashion empire. The first Dior boutique was established in 1954 at 9 Counduit Street. In honour of Princess Margaret and the Duchess of Marlborough, a Dior fashion show was held at the Blemhein Palace in 1954 as well. Christian Dior launched more highly successful fashion lines between the years of 1954 and 1957. However, none came as close to the profound effect of the New Look. Dior opened the Grande Boutique on the corner between Avenue Montaigne and Rue François Ier in 1955. The first Dior lipstick was also released in 1955. 100,000 garments had been sold by the time of the company's 10th anniversary in 1956. Actress Ava Gardner had 14 dresses created for her in 1956 by Christian Dior for the Mark Robson film \"The Little Hut\".\n\nChristian Dior appeared on the cover of \"TIME\" dated 4 March 1957. The designer soon afterwards died from a third heart attack in 1957. The captivating impact of Dior's creative fashion genius earned him recognition as one of history's greatest fashion figures. Kevin Almond for \"Contemporary Fashion\" wrote that \"by the time Dior died his name had become synonymous with taste and luxury.\"\n\nThe death of the head designer left the House of Dior in chaos, and general manager Jacques Rouët considered shutting down operation worldwide. This possibility was not received graciously by Dior licensees and the French fashion industry; the Maison Dior was too important to the financial stability of the industry to allow such an action. To bring the label back on its feet, Rouët promoted the 21-year-old Yves Saint-Laurent to Artistic Director the same year. Laurent had joined the House's family in 1955 after being picked out by the original designer himself for the position of the first ever and only Head Assistant. Laurent initially proved to have been the most appropriate choice after the debut of his first collection for Dior (the mention of \"Dior\" from this moment on refers to the company) in 1958. The clothes were as meticulously made and perfectly proportioned as Dior's in the same exquisite fabrics, but their young designer made them softer, lighter and easier to wear. Saint Laurent was hailed as a national hero. Emboldened by his success, his designs became more daring, culminating in the 1960 Beat Look inspired by the existentialists in the Saint-Germain des Près cafés and jazz clubs. His 1960 bohemian look was harshly criticized, and even more in \"Women's Wear Daily\". Marcel Boussac was furious, and in the spring, when Saint Laurent was called up to join the French army—which forced him to leave the House of Dior—the Dior management raised no objection. Saint-Laurent left after the completion of six Dior collections.\n\nLaurent was replaced at Dior by designer Marc Bohan in late 1960. Bohan instilled his conservative style on the collections. He was credited by Rebecca Arnold as the man who kept the Dior label \"at the forefront of fashion while still producing wearable, elegant clothes,\" and Women's Wear Daily, not surprisingly, claimed that he \"rescued the firm.\" Bohan's designs were very well esteemed by prominent social figures. Actress Elizabeth Taylor ordered twelve Dior dresses from Bohan's Spring-Summer 1961 collection featuring the \"Slim Look\". The Dior perfume \"Diorling\" was released in 1963 and the men's fragrance \"Eau Sauvage\" was released in 1966. Bohan's assistant Philippe Guibourgé launches the first French ready-to-wear collection \"Miss Dior\" in 1967. This is not to be confused with the already existing New York Ready-to-Wear store established in 1948. Designed by Bohan, \"Baby Dior\" opens its first boutique in 1967 at 28 Avenue Montaigne. The Christian Dior Coordinated Knit line is released in 1968 and management of the Fashion Furs Department of Christian Dior is taken by Frédéric Castet. This year as well, Dior Parfums was sold to Moët-Hennessy (which would itself become LVMH) due to Boussac's ailing textile company (the still-owner of Dior). This, however, had no effect on the House of Dior operations, and so the \"Christian Dior Cosmetics\" business was born in 1969 with the creation of an exclusive line.\n\nFollowing this, Bohan launched the first \"Christian Dior Homme\" clothing line in 1970. A new Dior boutique at Parly II was decorated by Gae Aulenti and the \"Diorella\" perfume was released in 1972. Christian Dior Ready-to-Wear Fur Collection was created in France in 1973, and then manufactured under license in the United States, Canada, and Japan. The first Dior watch \"Black Moon\" was released in 1975 in collaboration with licensee Benedom. Dior haute-couture graced the bodies of Princess Grace of Monaco, Nicaraguan First Lady Hope Portocarrero, Princess Alexandria of Yugoslavia, and Lady Pamela Hicks (Lord Mountbatten of Burma's younger daughter) for the wedding of HRH The Prince of Wales and Lady Diana Spencer. In 1978, the Boussac Group filed for bankruptcy and so its assets (including those of Christian Dior) were purchased by the Willot Group under the permission of the Paris Trade Court. The perfume \"Dioressence\" was released in 1979.\n\nIn 1980, Dior released the men's fragrance \"Jules\". After the Willot Group went into bankruptcy in 1981, Bernard Arnault and his investment group purchased it for \"one symbolic franc\" in December 1984. The Dior perfume \"Poison\" was launched in 1985. That same year, Arnault became chairman, chief executive officer, and managing director of the company. On assuming leadership, Arnault did away with the company's mediocre textile operations, to focus on the Bon Marché department store and Christian Dior Couture. Operations for Christian Dior drastically changed for the better under Arnault. He repositioned it as the holding company Christian Dior S.A. of the Dior Couture fashion business. On the 40th anniversary of Dior's first collection, the Paris Fashion Museum dedicated an exhibition to Christian Dior. In 1988, Arnault's Christian Dior S.A.'s took a 32% equity stake into the share capital of Moët-Hennessy • Louis Vuitton through its subsidiary Jacques Rober, creating what would become one of the leading and most influential luxury goods companies in the world. Under this milestone merger, the operations of Christian Dior Couture and Christian Dior Parfums were once again united. Italian-born Gianfranco Ferré replaced Bohan as head designer in 1989. The first such non-Frenchman, Ferré left behind traditional Dior associations of flirtation and romance, and introduced concepts and a style described as \"refined, sober and strict.\" Ferré headed design for Haute Couture, Haute Fourrure, Women's Ready-to-Wear, Ready-to-Wear Furs and Women's Accessories collections. His first collection was awarded the Dé d'Or in 1989. That year, a boutique was opened in Hawaii and the LVMH stake by Jacques Rober rose to 44%.\n\nFurther Dior boutiques were opened in 1990 in upscale New York City, Los Angeles, and Tokyo shopping districts. The stake in LVMH rose again, to 46%. Another collection of watches named \"Bagheera\" – inspired by the round design of the \"Black Moon\" watches – was also released in 1990. Having fired the company's managing executive Beatrice Bongbault in December 1990, Arnault took up that position until September 1991, when he placed former Bon Marché president Phillipe Vindry at the post. In 1991, Christian Dior was listed on the spot market and then on the Paris Stock Exchange's monthly settlement market, and the perfume \"Dune\" was launched. Vindry dropped ready-to-wear prices by 10%. Still, a wool suit from Dior would come with a price label of USD 1,500. 1990 revenue for Dior was USD 129.3 million, with a net income of $22 million. Dior was now reorganized into three categories: 1) women's ready-to-wear, lingerie, and children's wear 2) accessories and jewelry 3) menswear. Licensees and franchised boutiques were starting to be reduced, to increase the company's control over brand product. Licensing was in fact reduced by nearly half because Arnault and Vindry opted \"for quality and exclusivity over quantity and accessibility.\" Wholly company-owned boutiques now opened in Hong Kong, Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Cannes, and Waikiki, adding to its core stores located in New York City, Hawaii, Paris and Geneva. This held a potential to increase direct sales and profit margins while maintaining high-profile locations.\" In 1992, Dior Homme was placed under the artistic direction of Patrick Lavoix, and the \"Miss Dior\" perfume was relaunched. Francois Baufume succeeded Vindry in 1993 and continued to reduce licenses of the Dior name.\nThe production of Dior Haute Couture was spun off into a subsidiary named \"Christian Dior Couture\" in 1995. Also, the \"La Parisienne\" watch model was released – embodied in the watch \"Parisian Chic\". By that year, revenue for the label rose to USD 177 million, with a net income of USD 26.9 million. Under the influence of Anna Wintour, editor and chief of Vogue, CEO Arnault appointed British designer John Galliano to replace Gianfranco Ferré in 1997 (Galliano on CBS News: \"without Anna Wintour I would certainly not be at the house of Dior\"). This choice of a British designer, once again instead of a French one, is said to have \"ruffled some French feathers\". Arnault himself stated that he \"would have preferred a Frenchman\", but that \"talent has no nationality\". He even compared Galliano to Christian Dior himself, noting that \"Galliano has a creative talent very close to that of Christian Dior. He has the same extraordinary mixture of romanticism, feminism, and modernity that symbolised Monsieur Dior. In all of his creations – his suits, his dresses – one finds similarities to the Dior style.\" Galliano sparked further interest in Dior with somewhat controversial fashion shows, such as \"Homeless Show\" (models dressed in newspapers and paper bags) or \"S&M Show\". Meanwhile, Dior licenses were being reduced further by new president and CEO Sidney Toledano. On 15 October 1997, the Dior headquarters store on Avenue Montaigne was reopened –it had been closed and remodeled by Peter Marino – in a celebrity-studded event including Nicole Kidman, Demi Moore and Jacques Chirac. That year, Christian Dior Couture also took over all thirteen boutique franchises from Japan's Kanebo.\n\nIn May 1998, another Dior boutique was opened in Paris. This time the store opened its doors on the Left Bank, Place Saint-Germain-des-Prés. Also this year, Victoire de Castellane became lead designer of \"Dior Fine Jewellery\" and the first Dior Fine Jewellery boutique opened in New York City. Paris itself would witness the opening of the first Parisian Dior Fine Jewellery boutique the following year, at 28 Avenue Montaigne. The perfume \"J'adore\" was released in 1999, and on 5 October 1999, Galliano released the Dior Spring-Summer 2000 ready-to-wear fashion show, debuting the new Saddle bag. In the same year, Dior's long watch partner Benedom joined the LVMH group. In 2000, Galliano's leadership was extended to Ready to wear, accessories, advertising and communications. The first campaign under his leadership was photographed by Nick Knight and featured two women simulating intercourse.\n\nWhile other brands in the late 1990s, notably Gucci, had resorted to porn chic as a mean to draw attention, Dior ads had such an impact that porn chic became a trend in most fashion ads. Galliano ignited the escalation of porno chic advertisements, which culminated with Ungaro's zoophilic ads, shot by Mario Sorrenti, and Gucci's ads, which featured a model with pubic hair shaped like the signature Gucci logo. As a matter of fact, it is considered that Galliano had revolutionized Dior more through his advertising campaigns than through his designs.\n\nOn 17 July 2000, Dior Homme lead designer Patrick Lavoix was replaced by Hedi Slimane. Notable Dior releases that year were watches such as the distinctive \"Malice\", which features bracelets made of \"CD\" links, as well as the \"Riva\". Hedi left Dior Homme in 2007 and replaced by Kris Van Assche.\n\nIn 2001, the Dior Homme boutique on 30 Avenue Montaigne reopened with a new \"contemporary masculine concept\" instilled by its designer Hedi Slimane. Slimane used this concept in the creation of his first Dior Homme collection. Soon, Dior Homme gained prominent male clientele including Brad Pitt and Mick Jagger.\n\nJohn Galliano then began to release his own Dior watches in 2001, beginning with the \"Chris 47 Aluminum\" line, marking a new era in Dior watch design. Next, the \"Malice\" and \"Riva\" watches were redesigned with precious stones to create the \"Malice Sparkling\" and \"Riva Sparkling\" spin-off collections. Inspired by the Spring-Summer 2002 Ready-to-Wear collection, Dior released the \"Dior 66\" watch, breaking many feminine traditional expectations in design.\nThe men's fragrance \"Higher\" was released in 2001, followed by the perfume \"Addict\" in 2002. The company then opened Milan's first Dior Homme boutique on 20 February 2002. By 2002, 130 locations were in full operation. On 3 June 2002, Slimane was presented with the \"International Designer of the Year\" award by the CFDA. Until 2002, Kanebo was the Christian Dior ready-to-wear license holder in Japan and, when the license expired, Christian Dior was able to profitable directly sell its ready-to-wear and accessories in its own boutiques. The \"Chris 47 Steel\" watch was released in 2003 as a cousin of the original \"Chris 47 Aluminum\". Bernard Arnault, his wife, Chloë Sevigny, and Sidney Toledano witnessed the opening of the Dior flagship boutique in the Omotesandō district of Tokyo on 7 December 2003. The second Dior flagship store was opened in the upscale Ginza shopping district of Tokyo in 2004. An exclusive Dior Homme boutique was opened also that year in Paris on Rue Royale, and it presented the entire Dior Homme collection. A second Dior Fine Jewelry boutique in Paris was opened at 8 Place Vendôme. A Christian Dior boutique was opened in Moscow after the company took control of licensed operations of its Moscow agent.\n\nThe designer of Dior Fine Jewelry Victoire de Castellane launched her own watch named \"Le D de Dior\" (French: \"The D of Dior\"). signifying the entrance of Dior watches into its collection of fine Jewelry. This watch was designed for women but made use of many design features which are typically thought of as masculine. Slimane next released a watch for the Dior Homme collection called \"Chiffre Rouge.\" This special watch included the signature look of Dior Homme: \"Watch design and technology match each other inseparably, to create the perfect expression of Dior Homme’s artistic excellence and to increase the watchmaking legitimacy of Dior timepieces.\" De Castellane then launched her second line of watches called \"La Baby de Dior\". The design for this line was meant to be more feminine with more of a \"jewelry look.\"\n\nThe \"Miss Dior Chérie\" perfume and the \"Dior Homme\" fragrance were released in 2005. Galliano released his \"Dior Christal\" watches in which he combined steel and blue sapphires to create a \"creative and innovative collection.\" Christian Dior S.A. then celebrated the 13th anniversary of Dior Watches in 2005, and, in April of that year, its \"Chiffre Rouge\" collection was recognized by the World Watches and Jewelry Show in Basel, Switzerland. Also in the year, the fashion house also celebrated the 100th anniversary of the birthday of designer Christian Dior. An exhibition, \"Christian Dior: Man of the Century,\" was held in the Dior Museum in Granville, Normandy.\n\nIn 2006, the Dior watch booth was dedicated to the Dior Canework. This pattern was made by designer Christian Dior and based on the Napoleon III chairs used in his fashion shows.\n\nIn 2007, Kris Van Assche was appointed as the new artistic director of Dior Homme. Van Assche presented his first collection later that year. The 60th Anniversary of the founding of the Maison Dior was officially celebrated in 2007 as well.\n\nBy February 2011, the House of Dior was in scandal after accusations of John Galliano making anti-Semitic remarks made international headlines: the company found itself in a \"public relations nightmare.\" Galliano was fired in March and the scheduled presentation of his Fall-Winter 2011/2012 ready-to-wear collection went ahead without him, amid the controversy, on 4 March. Before the start of the show, chief executive Sydney Toledano gave a sentimental speech on the values of Christian Dior and alluded to the family's ties to the Holocaust. The show closed with the staff of the atelier coming out to accept applause in the absence of their artistic director. (The previous January 2011 presentation of Spring-Summer 2011 haute-couture was the last appearance of Galliano on the Dior runway.) The company went on ahead and appointed Bill Gaytten as head designer interim in absence of artistic director. Gaytten had worked under Galliano for Dior and for the John Galliano label. The first haute-couture collection (for the Fall-Winter 2011 season) under Gaytten's management was presented in July and was received with mainly negative reviews. Meanwhile, speculation remained for months as it was unknown who would be selected to replace Galliano. During its 13-month period of having no artistic director, Dior began undergoing subtle changes in its designs as the influence of the theatrical and flamboyant Galliano faded. The all-new resigned dior.com was launched in late 2011.\nOn 23 January 2012, Gaytten presented his second haute-couture collection (for the Spring-Summer 2012 season) for Dior and it was much better received than his first collection.\n\nBelgian designer Raf Simons was announced, on 11 April 2012, as the new artistic director of Christian Dior. Simons was known for his minimalist designs, and this contrasted against the dramatic previous designs of Dior under Galliano. Furthermore, Simons was seen to have emerged as a \"dark horse\" amid the names of other designers who were considered high contenders. To emphasize the appropriate choice of Simons as the right designer, the company ostentatiously made comparisons between Simons and the original designer Christian Dior. Reportedly, Bernard Arnault and fellow executives at Dior and LVMH were keen to move Dior from the Galliano years. Simons spent much time in the Dior archives and familiarizing himself with haute-couture (as he had no previous background in that niche of fashion). Simons was then scheduled to debut his designs in July. Meanwhile, Gaytten's Spring-Summer 2012 haute-couture collection was presented as the first Dior haute-couture show ever to be held in China on 14 April in Shanghai; and it was a mark of the company's devotion to its presence in the Chinese market.\n\nThe show was the last presentation by Gaytten for Dior, and he remained as head designer for the John Galliano label.\n\nOn 3 May, the \"Dior: Secret Garden – Versailles\" promotional film was launched. \nIt was highly buzzed about throughout various industry and social media sources as it was a display of Dior through its transition. Simons presented his first ever collection for the company – the Fall-Winter 2012 haute-couture collection – on 2 July. A major highlight of the fall-winter 2012 haute-couture shows, the collection was called by the company as \"the new couture\" and made reference to the start of a new Dior through the work of Simons \"wiping the [haute couture] slate clean and starting again from scratch.\" The designer's collection \"made more references to Mr Dior than to the house of Dior\" with pieces harkening back to themes Dior's post-WWII designs introduced to fashion. Simons, who rarely makes himself available for interviews, gave an interview published by the company through its Dior Mag online feature. While previous runway presentations under Galliano were held at the Musée Rodin, Simons' show was held at a private residence, near the Arc de Triomphe, with the address only disclosed to select top-clients, celebrities, journalists, and other personnel exclusively invited in a discreet affair. High-profile figures in attendance included designers Azzedine Alaïa, Pierre Cardin, Alber Elbaz (Lanvin designer), Diane von Fürstenberg, Marc Jacobs, Christopher Kane, Olivier Theyskens, Riccardo Tisci, Donatella Versace; and Princess Charlene of Monaco, actresses Marion Cotillard, Mélanie Laurent, Jennifer Lawrence, Sharon Stone; film producer Harvey Weinstein; and Dior chairman Arnault with his daughter. Live satellite feed of the show was provided on DiorMag online and Twitter was also implemented for real time communication. By then, it was also known that the company had purchased the Parisian embroidery firm Maison Vermont sometime earlier in 2012.\n\nIn March 2015 it was announced that Rihanna was chosen as the official spokeswoman for Dior; this makes her the first black woman to take the spokeswoman position at Dior. In 2015, Israeli model Sofia Mechetner was chosen to be the new face of Dior.\n\nIn April 2016 a new Dior flagship boutique opened in San Francisco, with a party hosted by Jaime King.\n\nIn 2017, Dior renovated and expanded its Madrid store. The brand celebrated the opening of the new boutique in a masked ball attended by a number of Spanish celebrities like Alejandro Gómez Palomo.\n\nDior has created strong partnerships with Hollywood celebrities and social media influencers, working closely with these individuals to reach more demographics and re-establish its identity as a new, modern brand, despite the fact that it has been around for a while. This has allowed the brand to portray a more populist image and attract a wider audience. The brand has worked with and dressed contemporary style icons like Jennifer Lawrence and Lupita Nyong'o, who may resonate with millennials. Dior has effectively implemented social media into their marketing communication strategy, in which images and videos from campaigns are shared on both the official Dior profile, and on the celebrity ambassadors' social media pages.\n\nAn example of this success is seen in the Secret Garden campaign featuring Rihanna. In this campaign, Rihanna is seen dancing to a song from her album (\"Only If For a Night\") through a hall of mirrors. By being associated with Rihanna's song, the company created a sense of association with her brand, which was beneficial to the company as she was ranked as the most marketable celebrity in 2016. Despite the reach not being completely suitable to the Dior target audience, collaborating with the likes of Rihanna allows the company to engage with more of the market, as Rihanna's social media following is four times larger than that of the fashion house.\n\nBelow are some of the celebrity ambassadors who have fronted Dior campaigns:\n\n\nChristian Dior, together with others in the fashion industry and the culture of the industry as a whole, was criticized by fashion model Inga Radziejewski for promoting anorexia nervosa and unrealistic body image in women, by designing clothes so small that the anorexic model could not fit into them even when she was dangerously underweight.\n\nGalliano's collection inspired by homeless people also drew a lot of criticism, but also attention, to the house of Dior.\n\nThe Spring 2017 collection also caused a lot of controversy as it was later revealed that many pieces were in fact exact replicas of traditional Romanian folk costumes. The refusal of Dior and of Maria Grazia Chiuri, the lead designer, to acknowledge the cultural appropriation, led to an online campaign under the hashtag #give credit.\n\nOn 23 February 2011, scandal arose when John Galliano was accused of making anti-semitic comments after drinking in Paris. Footage was released of the designer under the influence of alcohol saying \"I love Hitler\" and \"People like you would be dead today. Your mothers, your forefathers would be fucking gassed and dead\" to a Jewish woman. He was then accused of allegedly assaulting a gallery curator that same night and verbally insulting her and her boyfriend. Actress Natalie Portman, who had recently become the new face of Miss Dior Cherie perfume, commented on the matter to express her disgust, stating that she will in no way be associated with him. However, another model for Dior, French actress Eva Green, downplayed the seriousness of the incident, stating: \"Sometimes, you can make mistakes. I don't think he's anti-semitic. I'm Jewish. I don't think he has anything against the Jews. I think it's more that he was probably a bit drunk.\" On 25 February, Dior announced Galliano's suspension pending an investigation, citing that the company has a \"zero-tolerance\" policy toward anti-semitism. In France, it is against the law to make anti-semitic remarks of this nature, and it can be punished by up to six months in prison.\n\nOn 1 March 2011, Christian Dior officially announced that it had fired Galliano amidst the controversy.\n\nIn January 2018, Delhi, India-based People Tree, a garment retailer, accused Christian Dior of plagiarising the design of an outfit worn by Bollywood actress Sonam Kapoor on the January cover of \"Elle\" (India).\n\nAt the end of 2010, the only declared major shareholder in Christian Dior S.A. was Groupe Arnault SAS, the family holding company of Bernard Arnault. The group's control amounted to 69.96% of Dior's stock and 82.86% of its voting rights. The remaining shares are considered free float.\n\nChristian Dior S.A. held 42.36% of the shares of LVMH and 59.01% of its voting rights at the end of 2010. Arnault held an additional 5.28% of shares and 4.65% of votes directly.\n\n\nThe company operates a total of 210 locations as of September 2010:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33629609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33629609", "title": "County record office", "text": "County record office\n\nIn the United Kingdom (and particularly in England and Wales) the term county record office usually refers to a local authority repository, also called a county archives.\n\nSuch repositories employ specialist staff to administer and conserve the historic and the semi-current records of the parent body. They usually also preserve written materials from a great variety of independent local organisations, churches and schools, prominent families and their estates, businesses, solicitors' offices and ordinary private individuals. \n\nArchives may have been acquired either through donation or (more generally) by deposit on long-term loan. Local authorities in certain larger cities sometimes administer their own separate city record office, operating along similar lines. Archive repositories are frequently – but by no means exclusively – used by local and family historians for the purposes of original research, since many records can very often have a continuing administrative or legal significance.\n\nA record office will typically include public searchrooms (including reference books, archive catalogues and other finding aids), environmentally controlled strongrooms, administrative offices, and quite often small exhibition areas together with a conservation room for the specialist repair of documents. Searchrooms are generally open at their advertised times without charge, although many offices operate a reader's ticket system. Some, but not all, operate a fee-paying postal service for those who are unable to make personal research visits. All county record offices attempt to work in accordance with the appropriate official British Standard.\n\nThe earliest county record office in the modern sense was the Bedfordshire Record Office, established by George Herbert Fowler in 1913. To some extent it was operating within established traditions set by the London-based Public Record Office (now The National Archives), which first opened in 1838, or by other repositories overseas. Although the statutory operation of such county record offices under the Local Government (Records) Act 1962 was permissive rather than mandatory, the network has gradually expanded. Bristol Record Office (now Bristol Archives), opened in 1924, has been identified as the second local office to become established. The whole network now includes repositories – which operate largely independently of each other – throughout the whole of England and Wales (the most recent being Powys Archives, opened in the 1980s). Often the foundations of many of the earlier collections were the extensive surviving archives originating from a county's quarter sessions – in the county of Somerset a special muniment room had actually been provided for these as early as 1617. There are also many broadly similar repositories in Scotland, Ireland, and overseas. To varying extents they will also help with the care of the county's semi-current or \"modern records\" using records management principles, as well as with the selection and preservation of today's records (both paper and digital) for future generations.\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries some older libraries had also begun to maintain archive collections from their local area, although their facilities and the scope of their collections could vary considerably – as might their official legal status. There are often overlaps between local studies and record office collections, particularly with respect to printed ephemera, maps, photographs, old newspapers and local reference books. A number of record offices now operate in a formal association with one or more of their county’s principal local studies libraries, although the two professions of archivist and librarian generally remain quite distinct.\n\nPublic access to central government archives (technically known as Public Records) and by extension to local government records was previously regulated in accordance with instruments such as the Public Records Act 1958 and the Public Records Act 1967. The 1958 Act enabled county repositories to be appointed by the Lord Chancellor to hold individually specified classes of Public Records – including local court records. Access to material within record offices in England & Wales is now largely regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998 and the Freedom of Information Act 2000, although these do not necessarily cover privately deposited items, and closure periods may apply in certain cases.\n\nSince 1929 many county record offices in England have also been designated by the local bishop as a diocesan record office, latterly operating under the terms of the Parochial Registers and Records Measure 1978. Such record offices are often also formally recognised by the Master of the Rolls as approved repositories for manorial and tithe records (in accordance with the Law of Property Act 1922 and the Tithe Act 1936 (as amended by the Local Government Records Act 1962).\n\nMany county record offices have issued printed guides to their collections, although the addition of new materials can make these go rapidly out of date. Furthermore, many offices also have considerable backlogs of uncatalogued materials. From the 1990s onwards an increasing number of offices have launched online catalogues of varying completeness, linked to their respective websites.\n\nAn earlier summary of archive repositories, including brief details of the development of each office together with outlines of their principal holdings, is provided by Janet Foster and Julia Sheppard’s \"British Archives\" (4th edition, 2002). Select lists for certain specialised categories covering many UK repositories have also been issued by a variety of other publishers, notably the Federation of Family History Societies.\n\n"}
{"id": "293411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293411", "title": "David (Donatello)", "text": "David (Donatello)\n\nDavid is the title of two statues of the biblical hero David by the Italian early Renaissance sculptor Donatello. They consist of an early work in marble of a clothed figure (1408-09), and a far more famous bronze figure that is nude between its helmet and boots, and dates to the 1430s or later. Both are now in the Museo Nazionale del Bargello in Florence.\n\nThe story of David and Goliath comes from 1 Samuel 17. The Israelites are fighting the Philistines, whose best warrior – Goliath – repeatedly offers to meet the Israelites' best warrior in man-to-man combat to decide the whole battle. None of the trained Israelite soldiers is brave enough to fight the giant Goliath, until David – a shepherd boy who is too young to be a soldier – accepts the challenge. Saul, the Israelite leader, offers David armor and weapons, but the boy is untrained and refuses them. Instead, he goes out with his sling, and confronts the enemy. He hits Goliath in the head with a stone, knocking the giant down, and then grabs Goliath's sword and cuts off his head. The Philistines withdraw as agreed and the Israelites are saved. David's special strength comes from God, and the story illustrates the triumph of good over evil.\n\nDonatello, then in his early twenties, was commissioned to carve a statue of David in 1408, to top one of the buttresses of Florence Cathedral, though it was never to be placed there. Nanni di Banco was commissioned to carve a marble statue of Isaiah, at the same scale, in the same year. One of the statues was lifted into place in 1409, but was found to be too small to be easily visible from the ground and was taken down; both statues then languished in the workshop of the \"opera\" for several years. In 1416, the Signoria of Florence commanded that the \"David\" be sent to their Palazzo della Signoria; evidently the young David was seen as an effective political symbol, as well as a religious hero. Donatello was asked to make some adjustments to the statue (perhaps to make him look less like a prophet), and a pedestal with an inscription was made for it: PRO PATRIA FORTITER DIMICANTIBUS ETIAM ADVERSUS TERRIBILISSIMOS HOSTES DII PRAESTANT AUXILIUM (\"To those who fight bravely for the fatherland the gods lend aid even against the most terrible foes\").\n\nThe marble \"David\" is Donatello's earliest known important commission, and it is a work closely tied to tradition, giving few signs of the innovative approach to representation that the artist would develop as he matured. Although the positioning of the legs hints at a classical contrapposto, the figure stands in an elegant Gothic sway that surely derives from Lorenzo Ghiberti. The face is curiously blank (curiously, that is, if one expects naturalism, but very typical of the Gothic style), and David seems almost unaware of the head of his vanquished foe that rests between his feet. Some scholars have seen an element of personality – a kind of cockiness -(contrapposto=relaxed stance, shifted weight) suggested by the twist of the torso and the akimbo placement of the left arm, but overall the effect of the figure is rather bland. However it was intended to be gilded and painted, set on a pedestal with mosaic, and also seen from a considerable distance below. Donatello distorted the proportions of the figure to allow for this angle of view. The head of Goliath, lying at David's feet, \"is carved with great assurance and reveals the young sculptor’s genuinely Renaissance interest in an ancient Roman type of mature, bearded head\".\n\nDonatello's bronze statue of David (circa 1440s) is famous as the first unsupported standing work of bronze cast during the Renaissance, and the first freestanding nude male sculpture made since antiquity. It depicts David with an enigmatic smile, posed with his foot on Goliath's severed head just after defeating the giant. The youth is completely naked, apart from a laurel-topped hat and boots, bearing the sword of Goliath.\nThe creation of the work is entirely undocumented, and it has been given a range of datings. According to one theory, it was commissioned by the Medici family in the 1430s to be placed in the centre of the courtyard of the old Medici Palace. Alternatively it may have been for that position in the new Palazzo Medici Riccardi, where it certainly was placed later, which would place the commission in the mid-1440s or even later. The statue is recorded there by Vasari and other sources. The Medici family were exiled from Florence in 1494, and the statue was moved to the courtyard of the Palazzo della Signoria (the marble \"David\" was already in the palazzo). It was moved to the Palazzo Pitti in the 17th century, to the Uffizi in 1777, and then finally, in 1865, to the Museo Nazionale del Bargello, where it remains today. \n\nAccording to Vasari, the statue stood on a column designed by Desiderio da Settignano in the middle of the courtyard of the Palazzo Medici; an inscription seems to have explained the statue's significance as a political monument. Giorgio Vasari, \"Le Vite...,\" ed. G. Milanesi, Florence, 1878–1885, III, 108. A quattrocento manuscript containing the text of the inscription is probably an earlier reference to the statue; unfortunately the manuscript is not dated. Although a political meaning for the statue is widely accepted, exactly what that meaning is has been a matter of considerable debate among scholars.\n\nMost scholars assume the statue was commissioned by Cosimo de' Medici, but the date of its creation is unknown and widely disputed; suggested dates vary from the 1420s to the 1460s (Donatello died in 1466), with the majority opinion recently falling in the 1440s, when the new Medici Palace designed by Michelozzo was under construction. The iconography of the bronze \"David\" follows that of the marble \"David\": a young hero stands with sword in hand, the severed head of his enemy at his feet. Visually, however, this statue is startlingly different. David is both physically delicate and remarkably effeminate. The head has been said to have been inspired by classical sculptures of Antinous, a favorite of Hadrian renowned for his beauty. The statue's physique contrasted with the absurdly large sword in hand, shows that David has overcome Goliath not by physical prowess, but through God. However, the intention of Donatello is still debated among scholars. The boy's nakedness further implies the idea of the presence of God, contrasting the youth with the heavily-armored giant. David is presented uncircumcised, which is generally customary for male nudes in Italian Renaissance art.\n\nThere are no indications of contemporary responses to the \"David.\" However, the fact that the statue was not placed in the town hall of Florence in the 1490s indicates that it was viewed as controversial. In the early 16th century, the Herald of the Signoria mentioned the sculpture in a way that suggested there was something unsettling about it: \"The David in the courtyard is not a perfect figure because its right leg is tasteless.\" By mid-century Vasari was describing the statue as so naturalistic that it must have been made from life. However, among 20th- and 21st-century art historians there has been considerable controversy about how to interpret it. \n\nThe beard on the severed head curls around David's sandaled foot. Goliath is wearing a winged helmet. David's right foot stands firmly on the short right wing, while the left wing, considerably longer, works its way up his right leg to his groin.\n\nThe figure has been interpreted in a variety of ways. One has been to suggest that Donatello was homosexual and that he was expressing that sexual attitude through this statue. A second is to suggest that the work refers to homosocial values in Florentine society without expressing Donatello's personal tendencies. However, during the time of the Renaissance, when the statue was created, sodomy was illegal, and over 14,000 people had been tried in Florence for this crime. So this homosexual implication was very risky and dangerous. A third interpretation is that \"David\" represents Donatello's effort to create a unique version of the male nude, to exercise artistic license rather than copy the classical models that had thus far been the sources for the depiction of the male nude in Renaissance art.\n\nThe traditional identification of the figure was first questioned in 1939 by Jeno Lanyi, with an interpretation leaning toward ancient mythology, the hero's helmet especially suggesting Hermes. A number of scholars over the last 70 years have followed Lanyi, sometimes referring to the statue as \"David-Mercury\". If the figure were indeed meant to represent Mercury, it may be supposed that he stands atop the head of the vanquished giant Argus Panoptes. However, this identification is certainly mistaken; all quattrocento references to the statue firmly identify it as David.\n\nThe statue underwent restoration from June 2007 to November 2008. This was the first time the statue had ever been restored, but concerns about layers of \"mineralized waxings\" on the surface of the bronze led to the 18-month intervention. The statue was scraped with scalpels (on the non-gilded areas) and lasered (on the gilded areas) to remove surface build-up.\n\nThere is a full-size plaster cast (with a broken sword) in the Victoria and Albert Museum, London. There is also a full-size white marble copy in the Temperate House at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey, a few miles outside central London. In addition to the copies in the United Kingdom, there is also another copy at the Slater Museum at the Norwich Free Academy in Norwich, Connecticut, United States.\n\nDavid continued to be a subject of great interest for Italian patrons and artists. Later representations of the Biblical hero include Antonio del Pollaiuolo's \"David\" (Berlin, Staatliche Museen, c. 1470, panel painting), Verrocchio's \"David\" (Florence, Bargello, 1470s, bronze), Domenico Ghirlandaio's \"David\" (Florence, S. Maria Novella, c. 1485, fresco), Bartolomeo Bellano's \"David\" (New York, Metropolitan Museum of Art, 1470s, bronze), Michelangelo's \"David\" (Florence, Accademia, 1501-1504, marble), and Bernini's \"David\", (Rome, Galleria Borghese, 1623–24, marble).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5325470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325470", "title": "Debora Cahn", "text": "Debora Cahn\n\nDebora T. Cahn is an American television writer, most notable for her work on \"The West Wing\". Following \"The West Wing\"s end, Cahn was hired as a producer for \"Grey's Anatomy\".\n\nCahn was raised in a Jewish family. She graduated from Barnard College and received a master's degree in acting from the American Repertory Theater's Institute for Advanced Theater Training at Harvard. In 2006, Cahn married Michael Heller.\n\nIn 2005, Cahn won the for the fifth season episode \"The Supremes\". In 2006 and 2007, Cahn was part of the writing staff for two television series' nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Drama Series and the ; \"The West Wing\" in 2006 and \"Grey's Anatomy\" in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "42625080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42625080", "title": "Djerassi Artists Residency", "text": "Djerassi Artists Residency\n\nThe Djerassi Resident Artists Program is an artists and writers residency in Woodside, California. Sitting on a 583-acre ranch with a 12-sided cattle barn converted into artist studios.\n\nIt was co-founded in 1979 by Carl Djerassi, the inventor of the birth control pill, and Diane Middlebrook. The residency is competitive and held at no cost to the artists. The location was a former cattle ranch. Originally a women's residency program, to honor his late daughter Pamela but later expanded to welcome all genders. \n\nThis residency offers a public open house event once a year.\n"}
{"id": "181117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181117", "title": "Epistle", "text": "Epistle\n\nAn epistle (; , \"epistolē,\" \"letter\") is a writing directed or sent to a person or group of people, usually an elegant and formal didactic letter. The epistle genre of letter-writing was common in ancient Egypt as part of the scribal-school writing curriculum. The letters in the New Testament from Apostles to Christians are usually referred to as epistles. Those traditionally attributed to Paul are known as Pauline epistles and the others as catholic (i.e., \"general\") epistles.\n\nThe ancient Egyptians wrote epistles, most often for pedagogical reasons. Egyptologist Edward Wente (1990) speculates that the Fifth-dynasty Pharaoh Djedkare Isesi—in his many letters sent to his viziers—was a pioneer in the epistolary genre. Its existence is firmly attested during the Sixth Dynasty of the Old Kingdom, and is prominently featured in the educational guide \"The Book of Kemit\" written during the Eleventh Dynasty. A standardized formulae for epistolary compositions existed by the time of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt. The epistolary formulae used in the Ramesside Period found its roots in the letters composed during the Amarna Period of the Twentieth Dynasty. Wente describes the \"Satirical Letter\" found on the Papyrus Anastasi I of the Nineteenth Dynasty as an epistle which was commonly copied as a writing exercise by Egyptian schoolchildren on ceramic ostraca (over eighty examples of which have been found so far by archaeologists). Epistle letters were also written to the dead, and, by the Ramesside Period, to the gods; the latter became even more widespread during the eras of Persian and Greek domination.\n\nEpistles in prose and verse were a major genre of literature among the Greeks and particularly the Romans. The letters of Cicero are one of the most important sources on the history of the late Roman Republic and preserve features of colloquial Latin not always in evidence in his speeches and treatises. The letters of Pliny the Younger likewise are studied as both examples of Latin prose with self-conscious literary qualities and sources for historical information. Ovid produced three collections of verse epistles, composed in elegiac couplets: the \"Heroides\", letters written in the person of legendary women to their absent lovers; and the \"Tristia\" and \"Ex Ponto\", written in first person during the poet's exile. The epistles of Seneca, with their moral or philosophical ruminations, influenced later patristic writers.\n\nEpistles are written in strict accordance to formalized, Hellenistic tradition, especially the Pauline epistles. This reflects the amount of Hellenistic influence upon the epistle writers. Any deviancy is not the result of accident but indicates an unusual motive of the writer.\n\nIn contrast to modern letters, epistles usually named the author at the very beginning, followed by the recipient (for example, see Philippians 1:1). The scribe (or more correctly, the amanuensis) who wrote down the letter may be named at the end of the \"episte\" (e.g., Romans 16:22). In the absence of a postal system, the courier may also be named (e.g. Ephesians 6:21–22).\n\nAfter the names of the author and recipient, Pauline epistles often open with the greeting, \"Grace and peace to you.\" \"Grace\" was a common Hellenistic greeting, while \"peace\" (shalom) was the common Jewish greeting; this reflected Paul's dual identity in Jewish faith and Hellenistic culture. There may also be a word of thanks to the audience. In secular letters, a prayer or wish for health followed.\n\nThe body begins with a brief statement introducing the main topic of the entire body.\n\nThe epistles of the New Testament canon are usually divided as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are letters written by some very early Christian leaders, in the 1st or 2nd century, which are not part of the New Testament. They are generally considered to form part of the basis of Christian tradition. The ennobling word \"epistle\" is used partly because these were all written in Greek, in a time period close to when the epistles of the New Testament were written, and thus \"epistle\" lends additional weight of authority.\n\n\nIn the context of a liturgy, epistle may refer more specifically to a particular passage from a New Testament epistle (the Pauline epistles and the General epistles)—sometimes also from the Book of Acts or the Revelation of John, but not the Four Gospels—that is scheduled to be read on a certain day or at a certain occasion.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Mass and Anglican Eucharist, epistles are read between the Collect and the Gospel reading. The corresponding Gregorian chants have a special tone (\"tonus epistolae\"). When the epistle is sung or chanted at Solemn Mass it is done so by the subdeacon. Epistles are also read by an Elder or Bishop in the Lutheran Divine Service, between the gradual and the Gospel.\n\nIn the Divine Liturgy of the Eastern Orthodox Church and the Byzantine Rite Catholics the Epistle reading is called the \"Apostol\" (the same name is given to the lectionary from which it is read). The Apostol includes the Acts of the Apostles as well as the Epistles, but never the Apocalypse (Revelation of John). Unlike the Latin Rite there are never readings from the Old Testament. There are Epistle lessons for every day of the year, except for weekdays during Great Lent, when the Divine Liturgy is not celebrated. These daily Epistle readings are a part of the Paschal cycle, being ultimately dependent upon the date of Pascha (Easter). There are also lessons appointed for the feast days of numerous saints and commemorations. There may be one, two, or three readings from the Apostol during a single Liturgy. The Epistle is read between the Prokeimenon and the Alleluia. The Epistle reading is always linked to a reading from the Gospel, though some services, such as Matins, will have a Gospel lesson, but no Epistle. A number of services besides the Divine Liturgy will have an Epistle and Gospel reading. Such services often include a Prokeimenon and Alleluia as well. The Epistle is chanted by the reader, though at a Hierarchical Liturgy (a Divine Liturgy celebrated by a bishop), it is read by a deacon. The one who chants the Epistle also reads the verses of the Prokeimenon.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the art of letter writing was taught in numerous manuals, and the ars dictaminis became an important genre of instructional discourse. The necessity for letter writing was in large part due to the general deterioration of civil life and the decay of the Roman road system in the early Middle Ages, factors that obliged literate people with business to transact to send letters instead of travel themselves. A vast number of letters and letter-writing manuals were written in the period's \"lingua franca\", Latin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1410470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1410470", "title": "Exiles on Asperus", "text": "Exiles on Asperus\n\nExiles on Asperus () is a collection of science fiction short stories by John Wyndham, writing as John Benyon, published in 1979 after his death by Coronet Books.\n\nThe collection contains:\n\n\nExiles tells the story of a human crew who are transporting a group of Martian dissidents to a penal colony only for the captives to revolt leading to the crew, prisoners, and the survivors of a previous crash becoming embroiled in a battle for survival against the indigenous life form of the planet Asperus.\n\nNo Place Like Earth sees a survivor of the Earth's destruction facing a slow, quiet life on Mars or becoming part of the efforts to keep humanity alive on Venus, and the repercussions of his decision.\n\nThe Venus Adventure tells of an early flight to Venus and the surprising world the crew of the Fyra discover. Not only are there intelligent indigenous lifeforms, and a breathable atmosphere, there are also fellow humans.\n"}
{"id": "13110567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13110567", "title": "Feminist Press", "text": "Feminist Press\n\nThe Feminist Press is an independent nonprofit literary publisher that promotes freedom of expression and social justice. It publishes writing by people who share an activist spirit and a belief in choice and equality. Founded in 1970, the Press began by rescuing “lost” works by writers such as Zora Neale Hurston and Charlotte Perkins Gilman, and established its publishing program with books by American writers of diverse racial and class backgrounds. Since then it has also been bringing works from around the world to North American readers. The Feminist Press is the longest surviving women’s publishing house in the world. The Press operates out of the City University of New York (CUNY).\n\nBy the end of the 1960s, both Florence Howe and her husband Paul Lauter had taught in the Freedom Schools in Mississippi, and Howe was already attempting to compile a mini-women’s studies curriculum for her writing students at Goucher College in Baltimore.\n\nAs the 1970s approached, Howe was convinced that, just as she needed texts for teaching about women, so would other educators. Her initial appeal to a number of university and trade publishers to issue a series of critical feminist biographies proved of no avail. Ultimately, the Baltimore Women’s Liberation, an active local group and publishers of a successful new journal, helped to raise money for the Press’s first publications. On November 17, 1970, the first meeting of the newly formed Press occurred in Florence Howe's living-room. The first book to be published was Barbara Danish’s children's book \"The Dragon and the Doctor\" in 1971. Florence Howe saw her dreams of producing feminist biographies come true with the publication of \"Elizabeth Barrett Browning\" at the end of 1971.\n\nIn the Press’s founding years, Tillie Olsen changed its course dramatically by giving Howe a photocopy of the 1861 pages of \"The Atlantic Monthly\" containing Rebecca Harding Davis's anonymously published novella \"Life in the Iron Mills\". In 1972, the Press issued this work by Rebecca Harding Davis as the first of its series of rediscovered feminist literary classics. Olsen’s second suggestion, \"Daughter of Earth\" by Agnes Smedley, and Elaine Hedges’s suggestion, \"The Yellow Wallpaper\" by Charlotte Perkins Gilman, were published in 1973, and both of these have become staples of the American literature and women’s studies curriculums since (the 1990 \"Norton Anthology of American Literature\" included both \"Life in the Iron Mills\" and \"The Yellow Wall-Paper\"). \n\nIn the spring of 1971, Florence and her husband moved to New York. Howe brought the burgeoning press with her to her newly accepted professorship at Old Westbury. The President of the school allowed her to operate out of the corridor of a building originally intended as a garage for campus vehicles. The Press was met with excitement and support from students who worked in the small office in exchange for college work-study. Two New York City publishing professionals, Verne Moberg and Susan Lowes, contributed to the publication of three volumes of reprinted fiction released in 1972 and 1973, both of which Howe believes to exemplify the Press's enduring commitment to producing course-adoptable books to supplement curriculums dominated by male writers. The Press continues its commitment to recovering and compiling the important work of otherwise overlooked and unpublished female artists in collections such as \"In Her Own Image\" and the \"Women Writing Africa\" series. In 1972, the Feminist Press became a 501(c)3 organization with tax-exempt status.\n\nIn the summer of 1985, the Feminist Press moved to the CUNY campus on East Ninety-Fourth Street following an invitation from the school. Allowed to maintain an independent staff and board of directors, the Press gratefully welcomed the resources and visibility made available by this partnership.\n\nIn 2001 Jean Casella became the Executive Director of the Press. She was followed by Gloria Jacobs, former \"Ms. Magazine\" editor, and Jennifer Baumgardner, Soapbox Inc. cofounder. Jamia Wilson is the current Executive Director of the Feminist Press, appointed in 2017.\n\nWilson is both the youngest director in the Press's 47-year history and the first woman of color to head the organization. Under her tutelage, the Press continues its commitment to publishing a broad range of voices. However, the Press has also recently endeavored to extend its reaches beyond merely publishing. In doing so, the Press has hosted a variety of events, conferences, and panels centering on key conversations in feminism.\n\n“I grew up reading Feminist Press books from my mother’s shelf, and they were instrumental in developing my voice as an activist and writer. It’s an honor to join this intergenerational team to enliven the Press’s intersectional vision of publishing unapologetic, accessible texts that inspire action, teach empathy, and build community,” Wilson explained upon her appointment as ED.\n\nThe Feminist Press remains rooted in the symbiotic relationship between a publication and its readership. In this exchange, a book not only promotes ideas to its reader, but it also inspires new formulations that could ultimately shape future publications.\n\nThe Feminist Press has remained current and relevant within the fast-changing world of modern politics and the rapid evolution of feminism. In 2016, the Press started Amethyst Editions, a queer imprint curated by Michelle Tea that champions emerging queer writers who employ genre-bending narratives and experimental writing styles, and complicates the conversation around American LGBTQ+ experiences beyond a coming out narrative. The Feminist Press also established the Louise Meriwether First Book Prize, a literary prize for debut women and nonbinary authors of color, in partnership with \"TAYO\" literary magazine.\n\nThe Feminist Press also publishes \"\", an interdisciplinary peer-reviewed academic journal. The journal began as \"Women's Studies Newsletter\" in 1972, and in 1981 it was renamed \"Women's Studies Quarterly\". Today it is a biannual release simply called \"WSQ\". Covering a wide array of thematic subjects within emerging women's studies, the journal has published issues such as \"Technologies,\" \"Citizenship,\" and \"Motherhood.\" The subject of each issue is considered through various lenses that may include psychoanalytic, legal, queer, and historical interpretations in addition to many others.\n\n\nThe Feminist Press has launched multiple book series. \"Women Writing Africa\" was begun in 1994 with funding from the Ford and Rockefeller Foundations. The four-volume series was completed in 2009. Like the two-volume \"Women Writing India,\" the series is composed of regionally unique women's literature. The Femmes Fatales series, featuring pulp, mystery, and noir novels by women writing in the 1930s, '40s, and '50s was launched in 2003, and includes recent releases such as the 2013 \"Return to Lesbos.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47760568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47760568", "title": "Free Secession", "text": "Free Secession\n\nThe Free Secession () was an association of modern artists in Berlin organizing joint exhibitions 1914–1923.\n\nThe Free Secession was formed after 42 members in late 1913 left the Berlin Secession, which thereby lost a majority of its members and nearly all of its most prominent artists. Max Liebermann, a former co-founder and leader of the Berlin Secession was made honorary president of the Free Secession.\n"}
{"id": "8016831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8016831", "title": "Fun (magazine)", "text": "Fun (magazine)\n\nFun was a Victorian weekly magazine, first published on 21 September 1861. The magazine was founded by the actor and playwright H. J. Byron in competition with \"Punch\" magazine. \"Fun\" ceased publication in 1901, when it was absorbed into \"Sketchy Bits\".\n\nLike \"Punch\", the journal published satiric verse and parodies, as well as political and literary criticism, sports and travel information. These were often illustrated or accompanied by topical cartoons (often of a political nature). The \"Punch\" mascot, Mr. Punch, and his dog Toby were lampooned by Fun's jester, Mr. Fun, and his cat. The magazine was aimed at a well-educated readership interested in politics, literature, and theatre.\n\n\"Fun\" was sold for a penny and was sometimes characterised as a 'poor man's \"Punch\"'. Thackeray called it \"Funch\". \"Fun\" silenced its critics by publishing lively fare, whereas \"Punch\" was criticised as dull and tired. One area in which \"Fun\" clearly bested its rival was in its close connection to popular theatre.\n\nByron and his successor as editor, Tom Hood, the son of the first \"Punch\" contributor, assembled a vivacious, bohemian and progressive staff. Notable contributors included playwrights Tom Robertson, Hood, Clement Scott, F. C. Burnand (who defected to \"Punch\" in 1862), satirist Ambrose Bierce, G. R. Sims and especially W. S. Gilbert, whose Bab Ballads were almost all published in its pages, among other articles, poems, illustrations and drama criticism over a ten-year period. Cartoonists included Arthur Boyd Houghton, Matt Morgan and James Francis Sullivan (1852–1936). The \"Fun\" gang frequented the Arundel Club, the Savage Club, and especially Evans's café, where they had a table in competition with the \"Punch\" 'Round table'. Even though \"Fun\" was seen as liberal in comparison with the increasingly conservative \"Punch\", it could cast satirical scorn or praise on either side of the political spectrum. For instance, Disraeli, whose unorthodox character and ethnic lineage made him a popular focus of attack, was praised in the magazine, including for his Reform Bill of 1867.\n\nByron ceded the editorship of the paper to Hood in 1865 and sold \"Fun\" to engravers and publishers George and Edward Dalziel in 1870, who had previously engraved drawings for \"Punch\". Two years later they transferred it to their nephew Gilbert Dalziel (1853–1930). After the death of Hood and the end of contributions from Gilbert by 1874, the quality of the content began a slow decline. During the 1870s, the circulation of \"Fun\" is estimated at 20,000, compared with \"Punch\"'s 40,000. Hood was succeeded as editor by Henry Sampson until 1878, and then the editorship devolved to Charles Dalziel. In 1893, the Dalziels withdrew from the journal.\n\n\"Fun\" ceased publication in 1901, when it was absorbed into \"Sketchy Bits\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14580611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14580611", "title": "I Am a Fugitive from a Georgia Chain Gang!", "text": "I Am a Fugitive from a Georgia Chain Gang!\n\nI Am a Fugitive from a Georgia Chain Gang! is a book written by Robert Elliott Burns in 1932 and published by Grosset & Dunlap. \n\nThe book tells the story of Burns' imprisonment on a chain gang in Georgia in the 1920s, his subsequent escape, and the furor that developed. The story was first published in January 1932, serialized in \"True Detective Mysteries\" magazine. Later that year, Burns' story was made into the motion picture \"I Am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang\", starring Paul Muni. The book and movie were both credited with helping to reform deplorable conditions on Deep South chain gangs under Governor Ellis Arnall in 1943. \n\nA sequel, \"Out of These Chains\", was written by Burns' brother, Vincent Godfrey Burns, an Episcopalian priest, in 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "39764164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39764164", "title": "In a World...", "text": "In a World...\n\nIn a World... is a 2013 American comedy film written, directed and co-produced by Lake Bell.\n\nThe film stars Bell as Carol Solomon, a vocal coach intent on doing voice-over work for film trailers. The film co-stars Demetri Martin, Fred Melamed, Rob Corddry, Michaela Watkins, Ken Marino, Nick Offerman, and Tig Notaro.\n\nThe film grossed nearly $3 million against a production budget of less than $1 million, and received positive reviews from critics.\n\nSam Sotto is a Hollywood actor who is known as \"king of voice-overs\" for his extensive narration and voice-over work. He has recently published an autobiography and is about to receive a lifetime achievement award upon turning 60. His 31-year-old daughter, Carol Solomon, is a struggling vocal coach who has always been overshadowed by her father. Sam forces Carol to move out of his house so that he can live with his girlfriend Jamie, who is a year younger than Carol. Carol leaves to stay with her older sister Dani and her husband Moe.\n\nAn upcoming film series, \"The Amazon Games\", plans to bring back the \"In a world...\" line made famous by the late Don LaFontaine. The trailer voice-over is highly sought after. Sam bows out so that his friend and heir-apparent, Gustav Warner, can assume the role, but Gustav develops laryngitis and fails to show up to a temp track recording. Carol happens to be at the studio doing other work with engineer Louis, and she substitutes for Gustav. The series' executive producer decides she wants Carol for the job instead. Carol also gets other voice-over work, but she neglects to tell her self-absorbed father about her newfound success. Gustav and Sam feel entitled and are dismissive of the unknown woman who \"stole\" the job from them.\n\nCarol visits Dani at the hotel where Dani works as concierge. Intrigued by the voice of a flirtatious Irish guest, she asks Dani to interview and record him for her voice archive. During the interview, Dani pretends to be single.\n\nCarol joins Sam and Jamie at a party at Gustav's mansion. Gustav flirts with her, and Carol ends up staying the night. While waiting for Dani to come home from work, Moe listens to the recording of her interview with the hotel guest and is shocked at her lie. He leaves the apartment after she arrives.\n\nRumors spread quickly about Carol and Gustav. Gustav boasts to Sam of his night with some party-crasher, and when Gustav learns she is the woman in competition for the job, he decides to keep pursuing her, still not fully realizing who she is.\n\nSam and Jamie host a meal for Sam's daughters. It comes out that Carol is the mystery woman in the running for the coveted job. Sam is indignant, furious at Gustav, and dismissive of Carol, causing her to leave angry. Sam vows to compete for the job himself.\n\nDani is distraught about her husband, and Carol secretly records her anguish, sending the message to Moe to help win him back.\n\nCompetition for the job heats up. All three must send recordings for the studio to decide among. Carol is ready to drop out, but Louis champions her cause, also explaining that he likes her. Carol admits she likes him, too. They work together to produce the audition recording, then party together afterwards. At the end of the night, Louis finally kisses her.\n\nThough Carol is still angry at her father, Moe insists that she and Dani go to the Golden Trailer Awards, where Sam is due to receive a lifetime achievement award. There the trailer for \"The Amazon Games\" is revealed; Carol got the job and is elated. Sam storms off. Jamie berates him and threatens to leave him if he does not grow up and show support for his daughters. During his acceptance speech, Sam is magnanimous in victory, dedicating the award to his daughters. In the ladies room, Carol encounters the executive producer, Katherine Huling, who bluntly tells Carol that she was not the best person for the job, but was chosen for the greater meaning of having a woman in that role.\n\nIn the final scene, Carol goes back to her work as a voice coach, helping low self-esteem, high-pitched, squeaky-voiced women to speak less like a \"baby doll\" or \"sexy baby\" and be taken more seriously as mature women, using her voice-over on \"The Amazon Games\" trailer as their inspiration.\n\n\nThe film's title was inspired by the phrase used by Don LaFontaine to start many film trailers.\nAccording to Bell, almost no notable film trailers have employed female voice-over talent except for \"Gone in 60 Seconds\" (2000), which used Melissa Disney. Bell had been intrigued that the prototypical \"omniscient\" voice behind film trailers was male. This inspired her to write a story in which a female protagonist sought to overcome this prejudice, resulting in her feature-length writing, directing, and producing debut.\nBell wrote the screenplay with particular people in mind, hoping they would be interested in the project, explaining, \"I was inspired to cast not only people who are great comedians but [...] who have a complex life [...] I knew that there was a profundity there that I wanted to tap into.\"\nBell also recruited her then boyfriend Scott Cambell as an art assistant for the film.\n\nFilming took place over 20 days in Los Angeles. Bell did extensive preparation work before the film, bringing lengthy notes. She deliberately filmed using shots in the style of a drama, although the film is a comedy. The \"nose kiss\" scene was suggested by Ken Marino, and it made Bell laugh so much she told him he would need to do it twice.\n\nLocations include:\n\nThe sound studio scenes were filmed at The Marc Graue Voice Over Studios, Burbank. Studio A, Studio 4, the hallways, reception area, kitchen and the upstairs entrance to Studio 3 are all shown.\n\nThe film was well received at the Sundance Film Festival and it was picked up by Roadside Attractions for North American domestic distribution, and by Sony Pictures Worldwide Acquisitions for international distribution.\n\nReview-aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 92% based on 106 reviews. The site's consensus is, \"A funny, well-written screwball satire for film buffs, \"In a World...\" proves an auspicious beginning for writer, director, and star Lake Bell.\"\nAnother aggregator Metacritic gives the film a weighted average score of 79/100 based on reviews from 29 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews.\" This score was the second highest Metacritic aggregator score for a comedy film in 2013.\n\nA.O. Scott of \"The New York Times\" praised Bell, writing that she \"plays Carol with a perfect blend of diffidence, goofiness and charm, has written and directed an insightful comedy that is much more complex and ambitious than it sometimes seems.\"\nWhile noting that Bell is a former contributor to the publication, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" Tod McCarthy comments that the film is \"a lively, sometimes very funny comedy\" that offers an \"amusing peek into a seldom-visited corner of showbiz,\" that is the world of Hollywood voice-over talent. McCarthy describes Sam as \"genial and intimidating\" and Carol as a \"charming, neurotic live wire\" who is also \"shapely and quick-witted.\" Carol \"has great delivery herself and is wonderful with accents and dialects,\" according to McCarthy. McCarthy notes that \"all the actors pop with well-defined personalities,\" but that Melamed \"formidably dominates\" the film.\nBritish critic Mark Kermode praised the film for its \"sharp and very snarky\" humor, said it \"has just enough bite, and stays on the right side of bitter,\" and reserved special praise for Melamed, whose performance he called \"absolutely brilliant.\" He also praised Bell for avoiding the smug, self-serving insider view that other Hollywood films fall foul to, and the well observed characters, and although he does not think it will be a huge hit, says he thinks it deserves to do well. According to National Public Radio, \"Underneath the comedy, it's a moving story about female empowerment,\" with Bell's character Carol serving as voice-over industry counterpart to Rocky Balboa.\n\nJohn Anderson of \"Variety\" notes the picture achieves its most important goal of making the voiceover industry something of interest to a broad audience. He describes it as \"a rollicking laffer about the cutthroat voiceover biz in Los Angeles\" and \"a film with too many laugh lines to be absorbed in one sitting.\" Anderson describes Bell as a \"magnetic, intelligent, blithely screwball leading lady in the Carole Lombard tradition.\"\nAccording to polls conducted by CinemaScore, audiences gave the film a B+ rating.\n\nThe film opened in three theaters on August 9 with a total gross of $70,980, making it the weekend's number one in terms of overall per-theater-average gross ($23,660). Roadside Attractions planned to gradually expand, and roll-out the film to more theatres.\n\n\"In a World...\" won Best Screenplay at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival, where it debuted on January 20. Bell said she felt she had already won simply by being accepted for competition at Sundance. Bell was nominated for Best First Screenplay at the 2014 Spirit Awards. Bell was honored with the Breakthrough of the Year Award (shared with Joshua Oppenheimer — \"The Act of Killing\") and was listed in the Best Actress top 10 honorees by the Dublin Film Critics' Circle.\n\nThe film was recognized by the National Board of Review as one of the top 10 independent films of 2013.\n\nThe song \"Everybody Wants to Rule the World\" by the band Tears for Fears is featured in the film and plays over the end credits.\n\nIn addition to the soundtrack above, the score, which was written by Ryan Miller of Guster, was released on September 24, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "13310029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13310029", "title": "International Archive of Women in Architecture", "text": "International Archive of Women in Architecture\n\nThe International Archive of Women in Architecture (IAWA) was established in 1985 as a joint program of the College of Architecture and Urban Studies and the University Libraries at Virginia Tech.\n\nThe purpose of the Archive is to document the history of women's involvement in architecture by acquiring, preserving, storing, and making available to researchers the professional papers of women architects, landscape architects, designers, architectural historians and critics, urban planners, and the records of women's architectural organizations.\n\nThe IAWA collects the papers of women who practiced at a time when there were few women in the field (i.e., before the 1950s) and to fill serious gaps in the availability of primary research materials for architectural, women's, and social history research. As of October 2006 there were over of materials in the 298 collections in the IAWA, which are housed in Virginia Tech's University Libraries' Special Collections.\n\nAs part of its mission to act as a clearinghouse of information about all women architects, past and present, the IAWA also collects and catalogs books, monographs and other publications written by or about women architects, designers, planners, etc. These publications are accessible through the Virginia Tech library's online catalog, Addison.\n\nThe IAWA began with a collecting focus on the papers of pioneering women in architecture, individuals who practiced at a time when there were few women in the field. Today, the IAWA includes materials that document multiple generations of women in architecture, providing vital primary source materials for architectural, women's, and social history research. The collections includes material of relevant women architects as L. Jane Hastings, Anna Keichline, Yasmeen Lari, Doina Marilena Ciocănea, Eleanore Pettersen, Sigrid Lorenzen Rupp, Beverly Willis, Diana Balmori, Han Schröder, Mary Colter, Zelma Wilson, Liane Zimbler, Trudy Rosen, Pamela Webb, Berta Rahm, and Olive Chadeayne.\n\nThe IAWA also compiles biographical information. There is information about more than 650 women representing 48 countries and 42 states/territories in the United States available in the IAWA Biographical Database.\n\nSome of the IAWA's resources, approximately 1200 images from 28 collections, have been scanned and are available through the VT ImageBase.\n\nThe IAWA is overseen by a board of advisors that includes architects, city planners, industrial and interior designers, librarians, archivists, and faculty from around the world and the U.S. The head of Special Collections or her designee serves as the Archivist for the IAWA and sits on the Board of Advisors and the Executive Board. She prepares a report for presentation to the annual meeting held in the fall of each year at Virginia Tech's Newman Library in the President's Board Room.\n\nThe Milka Bliznakov Research Prize was established in 2001 to honor IAWA founder and advisor emerita, Dr. Milka Bliznakov (1927-2010). The IAWA Center invites architects, scholars, professionals, students, and researchers to contribute research on women in architecture and related design fields. This research, in concert with the preservation efforts of the IAWA, will help fill the current void in historical knowledge about the achievements and work of women who shaped the built environment.\n\nPast Milka Bliznakov Award and Research Prize Winners (2001-2015)\n\n"}
{"id": "52099672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52099672", "title": "Juul Frost Arkitekter", "text": "Juul Frost Arkitekter\n\nJuul Frost Arkitekter (JFA), often styled Juul | Frost Arkitekter, is a Danish architectural firm headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark. A branch office, JFA Studio , is located in Malmö, Sweden.\n\nJuul Frost Arkitekter was founded in 1990 by Helle Juul and Flemming Frost. The firm opened an office in Malmö in 2012.\n\nSøren Arildskov joined the firm as partner in 2014 and Søren Askehave became partner in 2017. Hanna Svensson, Line Stybe Vestergaard and Philip Krogh became asspcoated partners in 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24357189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24357189", "title": "Kathy Borland", "text": "Kathy Borland\n\nKathryn A. Borland (born March 8, 1962 in Columbia, Missouri) is an American entertainment producer, who formerly worked for 4Kids Entertainment. Shows she produced include the eight seasons of \"Pokémon\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33162329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33162329", "title": "Kenneth Davey", "text": "Kenneth Davey\n\nKenneth Jackson Davey OBE, Emeritus Professor, International Development Department, School of Public Policy, University of Birmingham (UK) and former Senior Adviser to the Local Government and Public Service reform Initiative of the Open Society Foundation (Hungary).\n\nKenneth Davey studied History at Oxford, graduating with an MA (Oxon). He is a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts, and was recently awarded the OBE. He was also awarded the Officer’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Hungary.\n\nKenneth Davey is currently leading the group of European experts examining the effects of the financial crisis at local level. This work is being carried out by the European Committee on Local and Regional Democracy (CDLR) at the Council of Europe (Strasbourg), in co-operation with the Open Society Foundation. The group's experts include Paul Bernd Spahn, Gabor Peteri\n\nIn his years as a specialist in local government, notably local finance, he has worked for \nHM Overseas Civil Service, the World Bank, DfID, UNCHS, Council of Europe and EU.\n\nHis work in recent years has focused particularly on assistance to local government reform in Central and Eastern Europe, and he was director of research into the institutional framework of urban management.\n\nBetween 1972-2008, he carried out consultancies on intergovernmental fiscal relations and public\nadministration reform for the Council of Europe, DfID, EU, UNCHS, UNDP, World Bank and other agencies in Bangladesh, Bosnia-Herzogovina, Brazil, China, Croatia, Czech Republic,Georgia, Hungary India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, FYROMacedonia, Mexico, Moldova, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Turkey and Uganda.\n\nFrom 1969–2000, he taught at the School of Public Policy at the University of Birmingham (UK). His posts included Professor of Development Administration(1981–2000), Director, Institute of Local Government Studies(1983–88) and Head of School (1988–89).\n\nAs editor:\n\nAs author:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50341091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50341091", "title": "Late Modernism (book)", "text": "Late Modernism (book)\n\nLate Modernism: Art, Culture, and Politics in Cold War America is a history book about late modernism as a historical period of aesthetics between modernism and postmodernism. The book was written by Robert Genter and published by University of Pennsylvania Press in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1595627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1595627", "title": "Licensing Order of 1643", "text": "Licensing Order of 1643\n\nThe \"Ordinance for the Regulating of Printing\" also known as the Licensing Order of 1643 instituted pre-publication censorship upon Parliamentary England. Milton's \"Areopagitica\" was written specifically against this Act.\n\nParliament, by the Habeas Corpus Act 1640, abolished the Star Chamber in July 1641, which led to the de facto cessation of censorship. The loosening of controls led to an immediate rise in publishing. Between 1640 and 1660, at least 300 news publications were produced..\n\nThe abolition of the Star Chamber and the severe 1637 Star Chamber Decree, however, did not indicate Parliament's intention to permit freedom of speech and of the press; rather it indicated a desire on the part of Parliament to replace the Royal censorship machinery with its own.\n\nMotivated by a desire to eliminate chaos and piracy in the printing industry, protect parliamentary activities and proceedings from its opponents, suppress royalist propaganda and check the widening currency of various sects’ radical ideas, Parliament instituted a new state-controlled censoring apparatus in \"An Ordinance for the Regulating of Printing\" of 14 June 1643.\n\nThe Licensing Order reintroduced almost all of the stringent censorship machinery of the 1637 Star Chamber Decree including: \n\nThe Stationers’ Company was given the responsibility of acting as censor, in return for a monopoly of the printing trade.\n\nIn protest, English poet and political writer, John Milton published the \"Areopagitica: A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc'd Printing, to the Parlament of England\" in November, 1644 (16 months following the Licensing Order).\n\nAfter the Restoration of the monarchy in the 1660s, even tighter controls were imposed on the press. A single individual was given the authority to publish an official newspaper along with the responsibility of serving as censor for all other publications.\n\nWith the Glorious Revolution of 1688, William and Mary were invited to ascend the throne on the condition that they agree to the terms spelled out in the Declaration of Rights. This came to be understood as part of the British \"constitution\" that American patriots cited as the source of their own freedoms as \"Englishmen\".\n\nThe Licensing Order was allowed to lapse in 1694. Although most accounts stipulate that \"the Licensing act expired in 1695\", the \"expiration\" was not the result of a simple lapse of attention on the part of the government. Instead, the freedoms established by the Declaration of Rights created a more open society, and an explosion of print was the result. In England, the emergence of publications like the \"Tatler\" and the \"Spectator\" are given credit for creating a 'bourgeois public sphere' that allowed for a free exchange of ideas and information. In America, the end of the Licensing Act also sparked the creation of new publications and set the stage for the battle of words that would lead to the American Revolution in the second half of the eighteenth century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21207055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21207055", "title": "List of military science fiction works and authors", "text": "List of military science fiction works and authors\n\nThis is a list of works in the military science fiction subgenre of science fiction, sorted by the creator's surname or, in case of film and television, the title.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReal name: Hemry, John G.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReal name: Keith, William H., Jr.\n\nGalactic Marines Series:\n\nHeritage Trilogy\nLegacy Trilogy\nInheritance Trilogy\n\nStar Carrier Series:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAlias: Jack Campbell\n\n\nValor Confederation - Staff Sergeant Torin Kerr's aim is to keep both her superiors and her company of space marines alive as they deal with lethal missions throughout the galaxy.\n\nAlias: Ian Douglas\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56912411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56912411", "title": "Mariam Budia", "text": "Mariam Budia\n\nMariam Budia (Born March 14, 1970) in Logroño (La Rioja, Spain), Spanish writer,\n"}
{"id": "3349019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349019", "title": "Mrs. John Wood", "text": "Mrs. John Wood\n\nMrs. John Wood (6 November 1831 (bap. 28 November), Liverpool – 11 January 1915, Birchington-on-Sea), born Matilda Charlotte Vining, was an English actress and theatre manager.\n\nBorn into a theatrical family, Vining travelled the country as a child actor. Over time, she developed a talent for comedy. An older sister was Fanny Vining.\n\nIn 1854, Matilda Vining married John Wood, an English actor. The couple moved to Boston, Massachusetts, where they became involved in American theatre. Her first part in the United States was Gertrude in \"A Loan of a Lover\" on 11 September 1854. The Woods played Boston for three seasons and for the first three months of their third, appeared at the Wallack's Theatre in New York City. New York was already the centre of American theatre, and Mrs. John Wood came to outshine her husband. T. Allston Brown, a contemporary historian of the theatre , offers this explanation for her fame:\n\nMrs. John Wood was a very pretty woman, possessing a fine figure and an attractive face. Her style was excellent in everything she attempted. She read well, had a melodious voice, was affecting in pathetic scenes and lively in those of a cheerful character, was a graceful dancer, and, although her voice was not very strong, it was melodious and well cultivated. She possessed the artistic talent which satisfied every demand that could be made by the most rigid stickler for a high degree of merit in a theatrical artist.\n\nMr. and Mrs. John Wood again played Wallack's in the summer of 1857, then moved to San Francisco, California. There they played Maguire's Opera House on 18 January 1858. This season, Mrs. John Wood gained renown for her roles in \"Hi-a-wa-tha; or, Ardent Spirit and Laughing Waters\" and \"Love's Disguises\". She may have managed two theatres during this period: the Forrest Theatre in Sacramento for a few weeks in 1858 and the American Theatre in San Francisco from March 1859 to the beginning of summer.\n\nIn mid-1859, Mrs. John Wood parted ways with her husband, daughter, and mother and returned to New York. There she joined Dion Boucicault's troupe at the Winter Garden Theatre. Mrs. Wood and Boucicault clashed, so Mrs. Wood decided to tour New York independently for three seasons.\n\nOn 2 April 1861, ten days before the outbreak of the American Civil War, Mrs. John Wood performed Dixie for a concluding scene featuring a Zouave march in a production of the burlesque Po-ca-hon-tas in New Orleans. The song was well-received and encored seven times, contributing to the popularity of the song as a Civil War anthem for the Confederacy.\n\nMrs. Wood met Laura Keene in the summer of 1860 while playing at Keene's playhouse, which was renamed the Olympic Theatre in 1863.\nShe managed Jane English's Theatre from its reopening on 8 October 1863. Soon after, she became manager of the Olympic, which changed its name to Mrs. John Wood's Olympic Theatre. She stayed there three seasons, during which she concentrated on burlesques and comedies. On 30 June 1866, Mrs. John Wood departed for England.\n\nMrs. Wood continued her management career at the St. James Theatre in London from 1869 until mid-1872. She then returned to the United States for the 1872-1873 season, then returned to England. In 1881, she appeared in \"Foggerty's Fairy\" by W. S. Gilbert. Until her retirement in 1893, she managed a number of English theatres.\n\nMrs. Wood died in 1915 at the age of 83.\n\n"}
{"id": "18027672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18027672", "title": "Museum Mile, London", "text": "Museum Mile, London\n\nMuseum Mile is a collection of museums in London, England, in the area between King's Cross on Euston Road to the north and the Embankment on the River Thames to the south. The area is located in the London Borough of Camden. The route includes Woburn Place, Russell Square, Southampton Row, Kingsway, and the Aldwych.\n\nThe museums and related cultural institutions with collections that are included are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7437691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7437691", "title": "New World Tapestry", "text": "New World Tapestry\n\nThe New World Tapestry was for a time the largest stitched embroidery in the world, larger than the Bayeux Tapestry. It depicts English colonisation attempts in Newfoundland, North America, the Guyanas and Bermuda between the years 1583 and 1642, when the English Civil War began.\n\nWork began on the tapestry in 1980 and continued for twenty years. The tapestry's home was the British Empire & Commonwealth Museum in the original 1840s terminal station designed by Isambard Kingdom Brunel near the modern Bristol Temple Meads railway station in central Bristol, England. This museum has now closed and the collections are cared for by Bristol Museums, Galleries & Archives. The tapestry and the rest of the collections are in storage.\n\nThe New World Tapestry, which in its entirety measures , consists of twenty-four panels, each of which depicts the narrative of a particular phase in the period between 1583 and 1642.\n\nEach panel measures .\n\nThe designer was Tom Mor, who also designed the Plymouth Tapestry at Prysten House, Plymouth, the Adventurers for Virginia (London) Tapestry, and was the consultant on the Jersey Liberation Tapestry (St Helier, Channel Islands) and the Plympton Tapestry (Plympton, Devon). The panel was researched by Tom Mor, Tom Maddock, Paul Presswell and Freda Simpson. Chief tapissiers were Joan Roncarelli and Renée Harvey. A New World Tapestry Website has been developed as of December 2008 and will soon include 120 pages, showing all complete panels.\n\nResearch for the New World Tapestry's twenty-four panels began in 1980. Tom Mor was joined by Tom Maddock, a retired friend from Ivybridge. Over the months they travelled hundreds of miles together, researching the two hundred sixty four people who would be named on the tapestry. Heraldic expert Paul Presswell of Buckfastleigh identified all the coats of arms of the people, colleges and companies involved. The result has been the creation alongside the tapestry of a library of files on each person and a collection of reference books of great use to researchers, scholars and teachers.\n\nTwo hundred sixty four armorial shields run along the top and bottom tapestry borders throughout its length, alternating with illustrations of the same number of flowers of herbs, medicinal plants, trees and shrubs. The latter are shown because the colonists took ointments and cure-alls with them on their voyages and plant hunters returned with such things as the potato and tobacco.\n\nAll the flowers and florets depicted were drawn from nature by Tom Mor, who studied them under a watchmaker's glass. He was helped from the very early days by Freda Simpson of Plymouth, who was passionately interested in herbs and old herbal remedies. She identified and gave him over 230 flower specimens in the years that Mor lived with his wife and family in Plymouth. Later they moved to Cambridge where he was able to complete the set of 264 drawings with the help of Clive King and Caroline Lawes of the Cambridge University Botanic Garden, Lady Jane Renfrew of Lucy Cavendish College and Alison Davies, Monica Stokes and Edna Norman.\n\nTom Mor could not have seen his canvasses brought to life without the help of his friends and the expertise of the dedicated tapissiers. When the very first stitch was made in the New World Tapestry in 1980, the team working in Prysten House numbered twenty. By the time the last stitch was made in March 2000, the number of tapissiers had increased to two hundred fifty-six with the addition of another eight centres. In Devon there was a second in Plymouth at HMS \"Drake\" (the Royal Navy's panel), Ivybridge, Chillington, Exeter, Bideford, Totnes and Tiverton Castle. Dorset's Tapestry centre was in the Guildhall at Lyme Regis and it was there that the Great Gardeners and Herbalists panel was stitched.\n\nThe first oblique Gobelin stitch was made on 26 September 1980 in Prysten House in Plymouth, by U.S. Ambassador the Hon. Kingman Brewster. The coat of arms of His Excellency's ancestor, Pilgrim leader William Brewster, appears on the 1620 \"Mayflower\" Panel.\n\nThe last oblique Gobelin stitch was made by HRH The Prince of Wales on 3 March 2000 in the Orchard Room of his home at Highgrove House in Gloucestershire. Most fittingly, with his interest in history and a keen gardener himself, the Prince put his golden wool stitch in the date of the 1642 Great Gardeners and Herbalists' Panel.\n\nStitches have also been added by HM The Queen, HM Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, HRH The Duke of Edinburgh, HRH The Princess Royal and HRH The Duchess of Gloucester.\n\nIn 2017, representatives of the National Congress of American Indians, who had previously been unaware of the tapestry project, issued statements to the effect that the final product was racist in its depiction of Native American people. \"It shamelessly perpetuates a centuries-long artistic tradition that seeks to portray Native people as subhuman, warlike savages,” according to Jacqueline Pata, the executive director of National Congress of American Indians.\n\n\"What I wanted to avoid was the picture of English people coming ashore from their galleon to the New World as peaceful and quiet. It wasn’t so,\" Mor told The Telegraph. \"It's no use pretending about it or being shocked by it. Mine is a cartoon, but it is a reality. I tell it as it is and I tell it with humour.\"\n\nThe New World Tapestry Library material includes histories of the years 1583-1642, much of it original research, files on the two hundred sixty four people named on the tapestry, plus heraldic information on over three hundred individuals, companies, towns, counties and universities.\n\nSupporters of the New World Tapestry include the Adventurers for Virginia patrons of the New World Tapestry and Library. Their names are inscribed for posterity in the Adventurers for Virginia Record Book. Supporters who join the Adventurers for Virginia may also:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53010788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53010788", "title": "Nick Mansfield", "text": "Nick Mansfield\n\nNick Mansfield is an Australian philosopher and Dean of Higher Degree Research at the Macquarie University. He is known for his research on subjectivity and sovereignty. Mansfield is one of the founding general editors of the journal \"Derrida Today\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19068331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068331", "title": "Ninety from the Nineties", "text": "Ninety from the Nineties\n\nNinety from the Nineties: A Decade of Printing was an exhibition held at the New York Public Library from November 7, 2003 through May 28, 2004.\n\n\"Ninety from the Nineties\" showcased a selection of ninety books made in the 1990s that were chosen on the merit of book arts. Note that the books were not necessarily written in the 1990s; some were older texts that were used to make special books in the 1990s. And, the books were not selected on literary merit.\n\nIn a contemporary review, \"The New York Times\" described the concept of the selection like this: \"books, which we are accustomed to thinking of as containers — and conveyers — of information, are placed in a context in which form is valued over content. Language is less important than the type that impresses it on the page. The paper counts for more than the story told on it. The illustrations and the binding might be the story.\"\n\nThe books were divided into five categories: binding, paper, type, illustration and \"inspiration.\" The exhibition was curated by Virginia Bartow.\n\nFollowing is a list of the ninety books selected and shown in the exhibition. The source for this list is the exhibition catalogue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47716356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47716356", "title": "Oslo Conservatory of Music", "text": "Oslo Conservatory of Music\n\nThe Oslo Conservatory of Music () was a music school in Oslo, Norway.\n\nThe school was established by Ludvig Mathias Lindeman and his son Peter Brynie Lindeman in 1883 in Christiania (as Oslo was then called) and was named the Organist School (). In 1885 it had 174 students and was renamed the Music and Organist School. Peter Brynie Lindeman took over leadership of the school after his father's death in 1887. The school was renamed again in 1892 to the Christiania Music Conservatory, and it was the only institution of its kind in Norway until 1905. Peter's son Trygve Lindeman (1896–1979), who studied music in Stockholm, became a teacher at the school in 1921 and became its head in 1930. Trygve Lindeman retired in the 1960s and management was transferred to the Lindeman Foundation (). From 1969 to 1973, the conservatory was operated in a partnership between the foundation and the government. The school offered a mix of professional training of musicians, and amateur education for children and adults. The conservatory closed in 1973, when the Norwegian Academy of Music was established.\n\nThe Conservatory of Music Archives were administered by the Lindeman Foundation until 2013, when they were transferred to the National Archives of Norway. The archives consist of teaching records with student and teacher schedules, evening performances by students, the music conservatory society, and a series of leaving assessments of students. It also contains some accounting records, including student payments and salary records. The materials cover the period from the school's establishment in 1883 until it started being shut down in 1969/70.\n\nNotable people that attended the Oslo Conservatory of Music include:\n\n"}
{"id": "19837842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19837842", "title": "Poets Union", "text": "Poets Union\n\nThe Poets Union is a not-for-profit organisation representing Australian poets, founded in Melbourne in 1977, it is now Sydney based. Its aim is to advocate the role of poetry as a major art form in Australia. Every second year it presents the Australian Poetry Festival and the Union organises readings, workshops, tours, and festivals around the country. Its flagship publication, \"5 Bells\" (named after the poem by Australian poet Kenneth Slessor) is issued each quarter and features articles and poetry by its members. The poets union has over 600 members.\n\nThe Poets Union is currently supported by the Australia Council, the NSW Ministry for the Arts, and Sydney City Council. The Union employs a Poetry Development Officer, currently Martin Langford, and an Office Manager.\n\n"}
{"id": "52542018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52542018", "title": "Pretty Ladies (female figurines)", "text": "Pretty Ladies (female figurines)\n\nPretty Ladies is the name archaeologists gave to pre-Columbian female figurines in Mexico, from the Chupicuaro, Michoacan, and Tlattlco cultures at the beginning of the 20th century.\n\nThe figurines were found in archaeological research at the beginning of the 1930s by Mexican and American archaeologists. It is in fact the discovery of the figurines that led to the discovery of whole sites, like the Tlatlico one.\n\nThere are many interpretations of what were the function of the figures. In some configurations, they were buried with dead bodies to ensure the resurrection of the corpses. They also represented fertility, not necessarily human fertility but also earth fertility.\n\nThese figurines were described in different ways, highlighting different aspects:\n\nThese figures are also called by archaeologists “naked feminine figures”, “nude girls”, “topless girls and women” or even “Venus of (Tlatlico, for instance)“, which is problematic because in doing so, they projected ideals on the culture these figures were part of, influenced by European representations of beauty.\n\nAlso, the naming of clay figures was done in a different way for female and male representations. The equivalent male figures were never called “pretty lords” or “nude men”, even when they were as naked as the female figures, but rather “man”, “male figure”, “chief”, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38030762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38030762", "title": "Protagonize", "text": "Protagonize\n\nProtagonize is an online creative writing community based in Vancouver, BC, Canada. It was established in late December 2007. It is owned and operated by Taunt Media. The site caters to both amateur and experienced authors interested in online collaborative creative writing, and is currently home to over 43,800 works (pieces of writing) and 160,800 pages, and over 29,000 members from around the world.\n\nProtagonize is an online community and self-publishing platform, launched in December, 2007 by creator Nick Bouton as a home for Choose Your Own Adventure-style branching stories. Shortly after launch, the site began to allow for linear narrative as well, and has since expanded to include poetry, screenplays, and other forms of literature.\n\nFollowing its subsequent growth, there has been an increasing focus on the community aspect of the site, with features such as groups and writing circles being added.\n\nIn June 2008 Protagonize was selected as a finalist in the 2008 Canadian New Media Awards for \"Excellence in Social Media Websites\".\n\nIn June 2009 Protagonize was one of seven local BC startups chosen to demo at Launch Party Vancouver 7 as part of the Startup Most Likely to Succeed competition.\n\nAt least one published book started out life as a story on Protagonize.\n\nOn June 3, 2017, Protagonize closed down due to stagnant user growth and declining revenue from advertising and donations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22872899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22872899", "title": "Reactionary modernism", "text": "Reactionary modernism\n\n\"Reactionary modernism\" is a term first coined by Jeffrey Herf in his 1984 book, \"Reactionary Modernism: Technology, Culture and Politics in Weimar and the Third Reich\", to describe the mixture of \"great enthusiasm for modern technology with a rejection of the Enlightenment and the values and institutions of liberal democracy\" which was characteristic of the German Conservative Revolutionary movement and Nazism. In turn, this ideology of reactionary modernism was closely linked to the original, positive view of the \"Sonderweg\", which saw Germany as the great Central European power neither of the West nor of the East.\n\nHerf's application of the term to describe fascism has been widely echoed by other scholars. Herf had used the term to denote a trend in intellectual thought during the era, what German novelist Thomas Mann had described as \"a highly technological romanticism\" during the interwar years. Herf used the term in reference to a wide range of German cultural figures, including Ernst Jünger, Oswald Spengler, Carl Schmitt, and Hans Freyer.\n\nHistorian Nicolas Guilhot has broadened the scope of reactionary modernism, applying the term to trends in Weimar Republic industry, medicine (eugenics), mass politics, and social engineering. Reactionary modernism can be seen in the fascist concept of the New Man, as well as in art movements of Weimar culture that emphasized rationalism and embraced Futurism and the New Objectivity. Many Weimar period artists rejected the Futurists' fetishization of machinery and violence, for example the proponents of German Expressionism. Despite this, the return to order became a dominant theme in German culture and in that of other European countries.\n\nReactionary modernism has been explored as a theme in the interwar literature and broader political culture of Great Britain. It has been examined in the context of other European countries during the interwar period, including Romania, Greece, Sweden, and Spain. It has even been examined in the context of fascism in Japan. Other historians acknowledge the term's recognition of an influential trend in European philosophical, cultural and political thought during the period when fascism was on the rise. Since the neologism was created by Herf, it has gained mainstream currency with historians in discussing the paradoxical European enthusiasm for paternalistic authoritarianism and volkish nationalism on the one hand, and new technological and political concepts on the other hand, all under totalitarian regimes.\n\nHerf now applies the term to claim similarity to the governments of Iran under the Ayatollahs, the government of Iraq under Saddam Hussein, and extremist Islamist groups such as Al Qaeda. Other scholars, including Paul Berman, have also applied Herf's term to radical Islamism.\n\nCultural critic Richard Barbrook argues that members of the digerati, who adhere to the Californian Ideology, embrace a form of reactionary modernism which combines economic growth with social stratification.\n\nThomas Rohkrämer criticized the concept of reactionary modernism, arguing \"It is simply not strange or 'paradoxical to reject the Enlightenment and embrace technology at the same time', but a common practice in nineteenth- and twentieth-century Germany as well as in many other countries. Instrumental reason and technology are available for an endless number of different purposes, many of which are not humane or enlightened\". Support for this view also came from Roger Griffin, who argued \"[F]ascism as an \"ideology\" and \"movement\" can be seen as proposing a radical alternative to liberal and socialist visions of what form modernity ideally should take. It represents an uncompromising rejection both of thorough-going liberalism and extreme 'modernism', whose logical culmination it sees as relativism, anomie, subjectivism, and the loss of definitive meaning and 'eternal' values. It is an attempt to re-anchor modern human beings within that highly modern phenomenon, the totalitarian state (a term used positively by Fascism) through consciously manipulated historical, national and racist myth (all deeply modern ideological constructs)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "31337149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31337149", "title": "Reflections on Violence", "text": "Reflections on Violence\n\nReflections on Violence (), published in 1908, is a book by the French revolutionary syndicalist Georges Sorel on class struggle and revolution. Sorel is known for his theory that political revolution depends on the proletariat organizing violent uprisings and strikes to institute syndicalism, an economic system in which \"\" (self-organizing groups of only proletarians) truly represent the needs of the working class.\n\nOne of Sorel's most controversial claims was that violence could save the world from \"barbarism\". He equated violence with life, creativity, and virtue.\n\nIn this book, he contends that myths are important as \"expressions of will to act\". He also supports the creation of an economic system run by and for the interests of producers rather than consumers. His ideas were influenced by various other philosophical writers, including Giambattista Vico, Blaise Pascal, Ernest Renan, Friedrich Nietzsche, Eduard von Hartmann, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, John Henry Newman, Karl Marx, and Alexis de Tocqueville.\n"}
{"id": "46937428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46937428", "title": "Saint Columba Altarpiece", "text": "Saint Columba Altarpiece\n\nThe Saint Columba Altarpiece (sometimes Adoration of the Kings) is a large c. 1455 oil-on-oak wood panel altarpiece by Early Netherlandish painter Rogier van der Weyden, now in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich. \n\nThe three panels depict a narrative in which Mary is visited by the archangel Gabriel; she gives birth in a stable, and she presents the infant at the temple. The left wing shows the Annunciation, the center depicts the Adoration of the Magi after Christ's birth, and the Presentation in the Temple appears on the right wing.\n\nThe elegant Annunciation is filled with iconography, such as the faux carving of the fall of man on the side of the prie-dieu at which Mary kneels in her devotions. An old-fashioned cross hangs over her head in the center panel's Nativity scene; the donor is placed on the far left, and a sweeping landscape can be seen in the background. The center panel's far right contains the exterior of the same building shown in the next scene from the inside, juxtaposing the stable with the temple and thereby causing an innovative yet jarring spatial and temporal juxtaposition. The stable is in Bethlehem, the Temple in Jerusalem, yet here they co-exist and function to bridge a gap from the Old to the New Testament. It the first Early Netherlandish painting where the building's exterior exists on one panel and its interior on the adjacent panel. Van der Weyden achieved an extremely innovative means of moving a narrative in a continuous fashion in this altarpiece. The Presentation occurs in the octagonal building's narthex, surrounded by monumental arches, another bold and innovative use of space and perspective.\n\nThe exterior panels on the reverse are covered with plain paint without evidence that they ever contained a donor portrait. The donor is positioned on the far left of the center panel.\n\n\"Saint Columba altarpiece\" was the object of frequent copying in the 15th and 16th centuries, and inspired some of Hans Memling's works, among them the \"Triptych of Jan Floreins\".\n\nThe altarpiece was included as part of the 1801 inventory of Cologne's Saint Columba cathedral, where it resided in the von dem Wasservass family chapel, which was probably established in the 1460s by Goddert von dem Wasservass, burgomaster of Cologne. It is reasonable to assume such a prominent resident of the city commissioned the piece. According to Lorne Campbell, based on the number of known copies, the piece probably never left the private chapel until 1801. Sulpiz and Melchior Boisseree bought it in 1808; their collection was acquired in 1827 for the Alte Pinakothek in Munich.\n\n"}
{"id": "7699375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7699375", "title": "Sgabello", "text": "Sgabello\n\nA sgabello is a type of stool typical of the Italian Renaissance. An armchair with armrests usually was a chair (\"sedia\") of hieratic significance. \"Sgabelli\" was typically made of walnut and included a variety of carvings and turned elements. The legs could be either two decorated boards with a stretcher for support, or three separate ornamented and carved impost legs. This seat was often placed in hallways, carved with a family's \"imprese\" or emblem drawn from its coat-of-arms. Its primary purpose was decorative, therefore the seat was not necessarily comfortable.\nSimilar chairs were made in France, where they were known as a side chair. These had solid supports called rhombus seat supports. They were not used as stools.\n"}
{"id": "36626191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36626191", "title": "Southwest Alternate Media Project", "text": "Southwest Alternate Media Project\n\nThe Southwest Alternate Media Project (SWAMP) is a non profit media arts organization based in Houston, Texas. It was established in 1977.\n\nThe Southwest Alternate Media Project was a co-sponsor of Houston Film Critics Society Awards 2010 and has provided production support for several notable feature films, including \"Last Night at the Alamo.\" SWAMP also recognized and supported the work of now noted filmmakers Richard Linklater, Robert Rodriguez, and Jane Campion. SWAMP was recognized and thanked for its assistance in the credits of three movies, \"Interface\" (1985) directed by Andy Anderson, \"Slacker\" (1991) directed by Richard Linklater, and \"Hannah and the Dog Ghost\" (1981) directed by Ken Harrison.\n\n"}
{"id": "31510112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31510112", "title": "SwoopThat.com", "text": "SwoopThat.com\n\nSwoopThat.com was an online textbook price comparison service. It was based in San Diego, California, it specialized in college textbooks but includes high school textbooks as well. The company's books by course search engine lets students input their class schedules, see all the required textbooks for those schedules, and find the cheapest online sources of those books. The search engine also includes a textbook exchange feature through which students can buy and sell books from other students. The website also includes a textbook buyback platform through which students can sell their textbooks back to online vendors. SwoopThat has been featured in the \"New York Times\", on the website of the \"Today Show\", on the website of \"Computerworld\" magazine, and the weblog lifehacker.com.\n\nSwoopThat was founded by students from Claremont McKenna College and Harvey Mudd College. It originally existed as a product search engine with an emphasis on local products and stores. It later shifted to a focus on textbooks based on a books by course model. It has since added course and textbook data from over 2,300 colleges in the United States. Through SwoopThat, students can compare prices for new books, used books, rental books, and ebooks.\n"}
{"id": "46876881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46876881", "title": "Tarjumān al-Ashwāq", "text": "Tarjumān al-Ashwāq\n\nTarjumān al-Ashwāq (, 'the interpreter/translator/guide/biographer of longings/desires') is a collection of 61 self-standing \"nasībs\" by the Andalusian Sufi mystic Muḥyī al-Dīn Ibn al-ʿArabī (1165–1240).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22842767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22842767", "title": "The Best American Short Stories 2001", "text": "The Best American Short Stories 2001\n\nThe Best American Short Stories 2001, a volume in \"The Best American Short Stories series\", was edited by Katrina Kennison and by guest editor Barbara Kingsolver. \n"}
{"id": "21197187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21197187", "title": "The Jerusalem Fund", "text": "The Jerusalem Fund\n\nThe Jerusalem Fund for Education and Community Development is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization based in Foggy Bottom, Washington, D.C. It focuses on educational and humanitarian work on behalf of Palestinians, particularly those living in the Occupied Territories and surrounding refugee camps. Since its formation in 1977, The Jerusalem Fund has invested in the potential of the Palestinian people through community development initiatives and direct financial assistance to primary health and basic education projects, grassroots and civil society initiatives, and educational programs in the United States about Palestine and the Palestinians. To implement its mission, The Jerusalem Fund maintains four programs: the Palestine Center, Gallery Al-Quds, the Palestine Diabetes Institute, and the Humanitarian Link.\n\nThe Jerusalem Fund receives funding through investment income as well as from private individuals. Funds are used to support grants to organizations throughout Palestine and to offer quality speakers at The Jerusalem Fund's headquarters.\n\nThe Jerusalem Fund is composed of nine board members serving on various sub-committees. The three sub-committees are: the executive committee composed of the Board Chairman, Secretary, and Treasurer; the Grants and Finance Committee, composed of the Board Chairman, Treasurer, and Board members Dr. Mohayya Khilfeh, Dr. Tawfiq Ramadan, Walid Keilani and Dr. Sari Nabulsi; and the Palestine Center Committee composed of the Executive Committee, Board members Dr. Mohayya Khilfeh and George Hishmeh, and noted scholars Dr. Edmund Ghareeb and Dr. Halim Barakat.\n\n\n\nThe Palestine Center is an independent educational program committed to communicating reliable and objective information about the Palestinian political experience to American policy makers, journalists, students, and the general public. Established in 1991, it is the educational branch of The Jerusalem Fund.\n\nThe Humanitarian Link is the charitable wing of The Jerusalem Fund. The Humanitarian Link gives small grants to needy hospitals, schools, orphanages and nongovernmental organizations. According to The Jerusalem Fund website, \"Strict reporting requirements and regular visits by Jerusalem Fund staff ensure the proper distribution of funds and project monitoring.\"\n\nThe Palestine Diabetes Institute address the growing diabetes epidemic in Palestine through treatment, awareness, and education. It is the first such facility in Palestine.\n\nSince 2000, the Gallery Al-Quds has been the sole, full-time area showcase for the exhibition of contemporary art by Arab-American and Arab artists. The Gallery specializes in the work of Palestinian artists, with an additional emphasis on the work of contemporary artists whose art centers on issues of the Arab and Islamic worlds. The gallery exhibits work in a full range of media including painting, sculpture, photography, film, and mixed media.\n\n"}
{"id": "20913771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20913771", "title": "Theatre", "text": "Theatre\n\nTheatre or theater is a collaborative form of fine art that uses live performers, typically actors or actresses, to present the experience of a real or imagined event before a live audience in a specific place, often a stage. The performers may communicate this experience to the audience through combinations of gesture, speech, song, music, and dance. Elements of art, such as painted scenery and stagecraft such as lighting are used to enhance the physicality, presence and immediacy of the experience. The specific place of the performance is also named by the word \"theatre\" as derived from the Ancient Greek θέατρον (théatron, \"a place for viewing\"), itself from θεάομαι (theáomai, \"to see\", \"to watch\", \"to observe\").\n\nModern Western theatre comes, in large measure, from the theatre of ancient Greece, from which it borrows technical terminology, classification into genres, and many of its themes, stock characters, and plot elements. Theatre artist Patrice Pavis defines theatricality, theatrical language, stage writing and the specificity of theatre as synonymous expressions that differentiate theatre from the other performing arts, literature and the arts in general.\n\nModern theatre includes performances of plays and musical theatre. The art forms of ballet and opera are also theatre and use many conventions such as acting, costumes and staging. They were influential to the development of musical theatre; see those articles for more information.\n\nThe city-state of Athens is where western theatre originated. It was part of a broader culture of theatricality and performance in classical Greece that included festivals, religious rituals, politics, law, athletics and gymnastics, music, poetry, weddings, funerals, and \"symposia\".\n\nParticipation in the city-state's many festivals—and mandatory attendance at the City Dionysia as an audience member (or even as a participant in the theatrical productions) in particular—was an important part of citizenship. Civic participation also involved the evaluation of the rhetoric of orators evidenced in performances in the law-court or political assembly, both of which were understood as analogous to the theatre and increasingly came to absorb its dramatic vocabulary. The Greeks also developed the concepts of dramatic criticism and theatre architecture. Actors were either amateur or at best semi-professional. The theatre of ancient Greece consisted of three types of drama: tragedy, comedy, and the satyr play.\n\nThe origins of theatre in ancient Greece, according to Aristotle (384–322 BCE), the first theoretician of theatre, are to be found in the festivals that honoured Dionysus. The performances were given in semi-circular auditoria cut into hillsides, capable of seating 10,000–20,000 people. The stage consisted of a dancing floor (orchestra), dressing room and scene-building area (skene). Since the words were the most important part, good acoustics and clear delivery were paramount. The actors (always men) wore masks appropriate to the characters they represented, and each might play several parts.\n\nAthenian tragedy—the oldest surviving form of tragedy—is a type of dance-drama that formed an important part of the theatrical culture of the city-state. Having emerged sometime during the 6th century BCE, it flowered during the 5th century BCE (from the end of which it began to spread throughout the Greek world), and continued to be popular until the beginning of the Hellenistic period.\n\nNo tragedies from the 6th century BCE and only 32 of the more than a thousand that were performed in during the 5th century BCE have survived. We have complete texts extant by Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides. The origins of tragedy remain obscure, though by the 5th century BCE it was institutionalised in competitions (\"agon\") held as part of festivities celebrating Dionysus (the god of wine and fertility). As contestants in the City Dionysia's competition (the most prestigious of the festivals to stage drama) playwrights were required to present a tetralogy of plays (though the individual works were not necessarily connected by story or theme), which usually consisted of three tragedies and one satyr play. The performance of tragedies at the City Dionysia may have begun as early as 534 BCE; official records (\"didaskaliai\") begin from 501 BCE, when the satyr play was introduced.\n\nMost Athenian tragedies dramatise events from Greek mythology, though \"The Persians\"—which stages the Persian response to news of their military defeat at the Battle of Salamis in 480 BCE—is the notable exception in the surviving drama. When Aeschylus won first prize for it at the City Dionysia in 472 BCE, he had been writing tragedies for more than 25 years, yet its tragic treatment of recent history is the earliest example of drama to survive. More than 130 years later, the philosopher Aristotle analysed 5th-century Athenian tragedy in the oldest surviving work of dramatic theory—his \"Poetics\" (c. 335 BCE).\n\nAthenian comedy is conventionally divided into three periods, \"Old Comedy\", \"Middle Comedy\", and \"New Comedy\". Old Comedy survives today largely in the form of the eleven surviving plays of Aristophanes, while Middle Comedy is largely lost (preserved only in relatively short fragments in authors such as Athenaeus of Naucratis). New Comedy is known primarily from the substantial papyrus fragments of Menander. Aristotle defined comedy as a representation of laughable people that involves some kind of blunder or ugliness that does not cause pain or disaster.\n\nIn addition to the categories of comedy and tragedy at the City Dionysia, the festival also included the Satyr Play. Finding its origins in rural, agricultural rituals dedicated to Dionysus, the satyr play eventually found its way to Athens in its most well-known form. Satyr's themselves were tied to the god Dionysus as his loyal woodland companions, often engaging in drunken revelry and mischief at his side. The satyr play itself was classified as tragicomedy, erring on the side of the more modern burlesque traditions of the early twentieth century. The plotlines of the plays were typically concerned with the dealings of the pantheon of Gods and their involvement in human affairs, backed by the chorus of Satyrs. However, according to Webster, satyr actors did not always perform typical satyr actions and would break from the acting traditions assigned to the character type of a mythical forest creature.\n\nWestern theatre developed and expanded considerably under the Romans. The Roman historian Livy wrote that the Romans first experienced theatre in the 4th century BCE, with a performance by Etruscan actors. Beacham argues that they had been familiar with \"pre-theatrical practices\" for some time before that recorded contact. The theatre of ancient Rome was a thriving and diverse art form, ranging from festival performances of street theatre, nude dancing, and acrobatics, to the staging of Plautus's broadly appealing situation comedies, to the high-style, verbally elaborate tragedies of Seneca. Although Rome had a native tradition of performance, the Hellenization of Roman culture in the 3rd century BCE had a profound and energizing effect on Roman theatre and encouraged the development of Latin literature of the highest quality for the stage. The only surviving Roman tragedies, indeed the only plays of any kind from the Roman Empire, are ten dramas- nine of them pallilara- attributed to Lucuis Annaeus Seneca (4 BCE–65 CE), the Corduba-born Stoic philosopher and tutor of Nero.\n\nThe earliest-surviving fragments of Sanskrit drama date from the 1st century CE. The wealth of archeological evidence from earlier periods offers no indication of the existence of a tradition of theatre. The ancient \"Vedas\" (hymns from between 1500 and 1000 BCE that are among the earliest examples of literature in the world) contain no hint of it (although a small number are composed in a form of dialogue) and the rituals of the Vedic period do not appear to have developed into theatre. The \"Mahābhāṣya\" by Patañjali contains the earliest reference to what may have been the seeds of Sanskrit drama. This treatise on grammar from 140 BCE provides a feasible date for the beginnings of theatre in India.\n\nThe major source of evidence for Sanskrit theatre is \"A Treatise on Theatre\" (\"Nātyaśāstra\"), a compendium whose date of composition is uncertain (estimates range from 200 BCE to 200 CE) and whose authorship is attributed to Bharata Muni. The \"Treatise\" is the most complete work of dramaturgy in the ancient world. It addresses acting, dance, music, dramatic construction, architecture, costuming, make-up, props, the organisation of companies, the audience, competitions, and offers a mythological account of the origin of theatre. In doing so, it provides indications about the nature of actual theatrical practices. Sanskrit theatre was performed on sacred ground by priests who had been trained in the necessary skills (dance, music, and recitation) in a [hereditary process]. Its aim was both to educate and to entertain.\n\nUnder the patronage of royal courts, performers belonged to professional companies that were directed by a stage manager (\"sutradhara\"), who may also have acted. This task was thought of as being analogous to that of a puppeteer—the literal meaning of \"sutradhara\" is \"holder of the strings or threads\". The performers were trained rigorously in vocal and physical technique. There were no prohibitions against female performers; companies were all-male, all-female, and of mixed gender. Certain sentiments were considered inappropriate for men to enact, however, and were thought better suited to women. Some performers played characters their own age, while others played ages different from their own (whether younger or older). Of all the elements of theatre, the \"Treatise\" gives most attention to acting (\"abhinaya\"), which consists of two styles: realistic (\"lokadharmi\") and conventional (\"natyadharmi\"), though the major focus is on the latter.\n\nIts drama is regarded as the highest achievement of Sanskrit literature. It utilised stock characters, such as the hero (\"nayaka\"), heroine (\"nayika\"), or clown (\"vidusaka\"). Actors may have specialised in a particular type. Kālidāsa in the 1st century BCE, is arguably considered to be ancient India's greatest Sanskrit dramatist. Three famous romantic plays written by Kālidāsa are the \"Mālavikāgnimitram\" (\"Mālavikā and Agnimitra\"), \"Vikramuurvashiiya\" (\"Pertaining to Vikrama and Urvashi\"), and \"Abhijñānaśākuntala\" (\"The Recognition of Shakuntala\"). The last was inspired by a story in the \"Mahabharata\" and is the most famous. It was the first to be translated into English and German. \"Śakuntalā\" (in English translation) influenced Goethe's \"Faust\" (1808–1832).\n\nThe next great Indian dramatist was Bhavabhuti (c. 7th century CE). He is said to have written the following three plays: \"Malati-Madhava\", \"Mahaviracharita\" and \"Uttar Ramacharita\". Among these three, the last two cover between them the entire epic of \"Ramayana\". The powerful Indian emperor Harsha (606–648) is credited with having written three plays: the comedy \"Ratnavali\", \"Priyadarsika\", and the Buddhist drama \"Nagananda\".\n\nThere are references to theatrical entertainments in China as early as the Shang Dynasty; they often involved happiness, mimes, and acrobatic displays.The Tang Dynasty is sometimes known as \"The Age of 1000 Entertainments\". During this era, Ming Huang formed an acting school known as The Pear Garden to produce a form of drama that was primarily musical. That is why actors are commonly called \"Children of the Pear Garden.\" During the Dynasty of Empress Ling, shadow puppetry first emerged as a recognized form of theatre in China. There were two distinct forms of shadow puppetry, Pekingese (northern) and Cantonese (southern). The two styles were differentiated by the method of making the puppets and the positioning of the rods on the puppets, as opposed to the type of play performed by the puppets. Both styles generally performed plays depicting great adventure and fantasy, rarely was this very stylized form of theatre used for political propaganda.\n\nCantonese shadow puppets were the larger of the two. They were built using thick leather which created more substantial shadows. Symbolic color was also very prevalent; a black face represented honesty, a red one bravery. The rods used to control Cantonese puppets were attached perpendicular to the puppets’ heads. Thus, they were not seen by the audience when the shadow was created. Pekingese puppets were more delicate and smaller. They were created out of thin, translucent leather (usually taken from the belly of a donkey).They were painted with vibrant paints, thus they cast a very colorful shadow. The thin rods which controlled their movements were attached to a leather collar at the neck of the puppet. The rods ran parallel to the bodies of the puppet then turned at a ninety degree angle to connect to the neck. While these rods were visible when the shadow was cast, they laid outside the shadow of the puppet; thus they did not interfere with the appearance of the figure. The rods attached at the necks to facilitate the use of multiple heads with one body. When the heads were not being used, they were stored in a muslin book or fabric lined box. The heads were always removed at night. This was in keeping with the old superstition that if left intact, the puppets would come to life at night. Some puppeteers went so far as to store the heads in one book and the bodies in another, to further reduce the possibility of reanimating puppets. Shadow puppetry is said to have reached its highest point of artistic development in the eleventh century before becoming a tool of the government.\n\nIn the Song Dynasty, there were many popular plays involving acrobatics and music. These developed in the Yuan Dynasty into a more sophisticated form known as \"zaju\", with a four- or five-act structure. Yuan drama spread across China and diversified into numerous regional forms, one of the best known of which is Beijing Opera, which is still popular today.\n\nXiangsheng is a certain traditional Chinese comedic performance in the forms of monologue or dialogue.\n\nTheatre took on many alternate forms in the West between the 15th and 19th centuries, including \"commedia dell'arte\" and melodrama. The general trend was away from the poetic drama of the Greeks and the Renaissance and toward a more naturalistic prose style of dialogue, especially following the Industrial Revolution. \n\nTheatre took a big pause during 1642 and 1660 in England because of the Puritan Interregnum. Theatre was seen as something sinful and the Puritans tried very hard to drive it out of their society. This stagnant period ended once Charles II came back to the throne in 1660 in the Restoration. Theatre (among other arts) exploded, with influence from French culture, since Charles had been exiled in France in the years previous to his reign.\n\nOne of the big changes was the new theatre house. Instead of the type of the Elizabethan era, such as the Globe Theatre, round with no place for the actors to really prep for the next act and with no \"theatre manners,” the theatre house became transformed into a place of refinement, with a stage in front and stadium seating facing it. Since seating was no longer all the way around the stage, it became prioritized—some seats were obviously better than others. The king would have the best seat in the house: the very middle of the theatre, which got the widest view of the stage as well as the best way to see the point of view and vanishing point that the stage was constructed around. Philippe Jacques de Loutherbourg was one of the most influential set designers of the time because of his use of floor space and scenery.\n\nBecause of the turmoil before this time, there was still some controversy about what should and should not be put on the stage. Jeremy Collier, a preacher, was one of the heads in this movement through his piece \"A Short View of the Immorality and Profaneness of the English Stage\". The beliefs in this paper were mainly held by non-theatre goers and the remainder of the Puritans and very religious of the time. The main question was if seeing something immoral on stage affects behavior in the lives of those who watch it, a controversy that is still playing out today.\n\nThe seventeenth century had also introduced women to the stage, which was considered inappropriate earlier. These women were regarded as celebrities (also a newer concept, thanks to ideas on individualism that arose in the wake of Renaissance Humanism), but on the other hand, it was still very new and revolutionary that they were on the stage, and some said they were unladylike, and looked down on them. Charles II did not like young men playing the parts of young women, so he asked that women play their own parts. Because women were allowed on the stage, playwrights had more leeway with plot twists, like women dressing as men, and having narrow escapes from morally sticky situations as forms of comedy.\n\nComedies were full of the young and very much in vogue, with the storyline following their love lives: commonly a young roguish hero professing his love to the chaste and free minded heroine near the end of the play, much like Sheridan's \"The School for Scandal\". Many of the comedies were fashioned after the French tradition, mainly Molière, again hailing back to the French influence brought back by the King and the Royals after their exile. Molière was one of the top comedic playwrights of the time, revolutionizing the way comedy was written and performed by combining Italian commedia dell'arte and neoclassical French comedy to create some of the longest lasting and most influential satiric comedies. Tragedies were similarly victorious in their sense of righting political power, especially poignant because of the recent Restoration of the Crown. They were also imitations of French tragedy, although the French had a larger distinction between comedy and tragedy, whereas the English fudged the lines occasionally and put some comedic parts in their tragedies. Common forms of non-comedic plays were sentimental comedies as well as something that would later be called \"tragédie bourgeoise\", or domestic tragedy—that is, the tragedy of common life—were more popular in England because they appealed more to English sensibilities.\n\nWhile theatre troupes were formerly often travelling, the idea of the national theatre gained support in the 18th century, inspired by Ludvig Holberg. The major promoter of the idea of the national theatre in Germany, and also of the \"Sturm und Drang\" poets, was Abel Seyler, the owner of the Hamburgische Entreprise and the Seyler Theatre Company.\n\nThrough the 19th century, the popular theatrical forms of Romanticism, melodrama, Victorian burlesque and the well-made plays of Scribe and Sardou gave way to the problem plays of Naturalism and Realism; the farces of Feydeau; Wagner's operatic \"Gesamtkunstwerk\"; musical theatre (including Gilbert and Sullivan's operas); F. C. Burnand's, W. S. Gilbert's and Oscar Wilde's drawing-room comedies; Symbolism; proto-Expressionism in the late works of August Strindberg and Henrik Ibsen; and Edwardian musical comedy.\n\nThese trends continued through the 20th century in the realism of Stanislavski and Lee Strasberg, the political theatre of Erwin Piscator and Bertolt Brecht, the so-called Theatre of the Absurd of Samuel Beckett and Eugène Ionesco, American and British musicals, the collective creations of companies of actors and directors such as Joan Littlewood's Theatre Workshop, experimental and postmodern theatre of Robert Wilson and Robert Lepage, the postcolonial theatre of August Wilson or Tomson Highway, and Augusto Boal's Theatre of the Oppressed.\n\nThe first form of Indian theatre was the Sanskrit theatre. It began after the development of Greek and Roman theatre and before the development of theatre in other parts of Asia. It emerged sometime between the 2nd century BCE and the 1st century CE and flourished between the 1st century CE and the 10th, which was a period of relative peace in the history of India during which hundreds of plays were written. Japanese forms of Kabuki, Nō, and Kyōgen developed in the 17th century CE. Theatre in the medieval Islamic world included puppet theatre (which included hand puppets, shadow plays and marionette productions) and live passion plays known as \"ta'ziya\", where actors re-enact episodes from Muslim history. In particular, Shia Islamic plays revolved around the \"shaheed\" (martyrdom) of Ali's sons Hasan ibn Ali and Husayn ibn Ali. Secular plays were known as \"akhraja\", recorded in medieval \"adab\" literature, though they were less common than puppetry and \"ta'ziya\" theatre.\n\nDrama is the specific mode of fiction represented in performance. The term comes from a Greek word meaning \"action\", which is derived from the verb δράω, \"dráō\", \"to do\" or \"to act\". The enactment of drama in theatre, performed by actors on a stage before an audience, presupposes collaborative modes of production and a collective form of reception. The structure of dramatic texts, unlike other forms of literature, is directly influenced by this collaborative production and collective reception. The early modern tragedy \"Hamlet\" (1601) by Shakespeare and the classical Athenian tragedy \"Oedipus Rex\" (c. 429 BCE) by Sophocles are among the masterpieces of the art of drama. A modern example is \"Long Day's Journey into Night\" by Eugene O'Neill (1956).\n\nConsidered as a genre of poetry in general, the dramatic mode has been contrasted with the epic and the lyrical modes ever since Aristotle's \"Poetics\" (c. 335 BCE)—the earliest work of dramatic theory. The use of \"drama\" in the narrow sense to designate a specific \"type\" of play dates from the 19th century. Drama in this sense refers to a play that is \"neither\" a comedy nor a tragedy—for example, Zola's \"Thérèse Raquin\" (1873) or Chekhov's \"Ivanov\" (1887). In Ancient Greece however, the word \"drama\" encompassed all theatrical plays, tragic, comic, or anything in between.\n\nDrama is often combined with music and dance: the drama in opera is generally sung throughout; musicals generally include both spoken dialogue and songs; and some forms of drama have incidental music or musical accompaniment underscoring the dialogue (melodrama and Japanese Nō, for example). In certain periods of history (the ancient Roman and modern Romantic) some dramas have been written to be read rather than performed. In improvisation, the drama does not pre-exist the moment of performance; performers devise a dramatic script spontaneously before an audience.\n\nMusic and theatre have had a close relationship since ancient times—Athenian tragedy, for example, was a form of dance-drama that employed a chorus whose parts were sung (to the accompaniment of an \"aulos\"—an instrument comparable to the modern clarinet), as were some of the actors' responses and their 'solo songs' (monodies). Modern musical theatre is a form of theatre that also combines music, spoken dialogue, and dance. It emerged from comic opera (especially Gilbert and Sullivan), variety, vaudeville, and music hall genres of the late 19th and early 20th century. After the Edwardian musical comedy that began in the 1890s, the Princess Theatre musicals of the early 20th century, and comedies in the 1920s and 1930s (such as the works of Rodgers and Hammerstein), with \"Oklahoma!\" (1943), musicals moved in a more dramatic direction. Famous musicals over the subsequent decades included \"My Fair Lady\" (1956), \"West Side Story\" (1957), \"The Fantasticks\" (1960), \"Hair\" (1967), \"A Chorus Line\" (1975), \"Les Misérables\" (1980), \"Into the Woods\" (1986), and \"The Phantom of the Opera\" (1986), as well as more contemporary hits including \"Rent\" (1994), \"The Lion King\" (1997), \"Wicked\" (2003), and \"Hamilton\" (2015).\n\nMusical theatre may be produced on an intimate scale Off-Broadway, in regional theatres, and elsewhere, but it often includes spectacle. For instance, Broadway and West End musicals often include lavish costumes and sets supported by multimillion-dollar budgets.\n\nTheatre productions that use humour as a vehicle to tell a story qualify as comedies. This may include a modern farce such as \"Boeing Boeing\" or a classical play such as \"As You Like It\". Theatre expressing bleak, controversial or taboo subject matter in a deliberately humorous way is referred to as black comedy. Black Comedy can have several genres like slapstick humour, dark and sarcastic comedy.\n\nAristotle's phrase \"several kinds being found in separate parts of the play\" is a reference to the structural origins of drama. In it the spoken parts were written in the Attic dialect whereas the choral (recited or sung) ones in the Doric dialect, these discrepancies reflecting the differing religious origins and poetic metres of the parts that were fused into a new entity, the theatrical \"drama\".\n\nTragedy refers to a specific tradition of drama that has played a unique and important role historically in the self-definition of Western civilisation. That tradition has been multiple and discontinuous, yet the term has often been used to invoke a powerful effect of cultural identity and historical continuity—\"the Greeks and the Elizabethans, in one cultural form; Hellenes and Christians, in a common activity,\" as Raymond Williams puts it. From its obscure origins in the theatres of Athens 2,500 years ago, from which there survives only a fraction of the work of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, through its singular articulations in the works of Shakespeare, Lope de Vega, Racine, and Schiller, to the more recent naturalistic tragedy of Strindberg, Beckett's modernist meditations on death, loss and suffering, and Müller's postmodernist reworkings of the tragic canon, tragedy has remained an important site of cultural experimentation, negotiation, struggle, and change. In the wake of Aristotle's \"Poetics\" (335 BCE), tragedy has been used to make genre distinctions, whether at the scale of poetry in general (where the tragic divides against epic and lyric) or at the scale of the drama (where tragedy is opposed to comedy). In the modern era, tragedy has also been defined against drama, melodrama, the tragicomic, and epic theatre.\n\nImprovisation has been a consistent feature of theatre, with the Commedia dell'arte in the sixteenth century being recognised as the first improvisation form. Popularized by Nobel Prize Winner Dario Fo and troupes such as the Upright Citizens Brigade improvisational theatre continues to evolve with many different streams and philosophies. Keith Johnstone and Viola Spolin are recognized as the first teachers of improvisation in modern times, with Johnstone exploring improvisation as an alternative to scripted theatre and Spolin and her successors exploring improvisation principally as a tool for developing dramatic work or skills or as a form for situational comedy. Spolin also became interested in how the process of learning improvisation was applicable to the development of human potential. Spolin's son, Paul Sills popularized improvisational theatre as a theatrical art form when he founded. as its first director, the Second City in Chicago.\n\nHaving been an important part of human culture for more than 2,500 years, theatre has evolved a wide range of different theories and practices. Some are related to political or spiritual ideologies, while others are based purely on \"artistic\" concerns. Some processes focus on a story, some on theatre as event, and some on theatre as catalyst for social change. The classical Greek philosopher Aristotle, in his seminal treatise, \"Poetics\" (c. 335 BCE) is the earliest-surviving example and its arguments have influenced theories of theatre ever since. In it, he offers an account of what he calls \"poetry\" (a term which in Greek literally means \"making\" and in this context includes drama—comedy, tragedy, and the satyr play—as well as lyric poetry, epic poetry, and the dithyramb). He examines its \"first principles\" and identifies its genres and basic elements; his analysis of tragedy constitutes the core of the discussion.\n\nAristotle argues that tragedy consists of six qualitative parts, which are (in order of importance) \"mythos\" or \"plot\", \"ethos\" or \"character\", \"dianoia\" or \"thought\", \"lexis\" or \"diction\", \"melos\" or \"song\", and \"opsis\" or \"spectacle\". \"Although Aristotle's \"Poetics\" is universally acknowledged in the Western critical tradition\", Marvin Carlson explains, \"almost every detail about his seminal work has aroused divergent opinions.\" Important theatre practitioners of the 20th century include Konstantin Stanislavski, Vsevolod Meyerhold, Jacques Copeau, Edward Gordon Craig, Bertolt Brecht, Antonin Artaud, Joan Littlewood, Peter Brook, Jerzy Grotowski, Augusto Boal, Eugenio Barba, Dario Fo, Viola Spolin, Keith Johnstone and Robert Wilson (director).\n\nStanislavski treated the theatre as an art-form that is autonomous from literature and one in which the playwright's contribution should be respected as that of only one of an ensemble of creative artists. His innovative contribution to modern acting theory has remained at the core of mainstream western performance training for much of the last century. That many of the precepts of his system of actor training seem to be common sense and self-evident testifies to its hegemonic success. Actors frequently employ his basic concepts without knowing they do so. Thanks to its promotion and elaboration by acting teachers who were former students and the many translations of his theoretical writings, Stanislavski's 'system' acquired an unprecedented ability to cross cultural boundaries and developed an international reach, dominating debates about acting in Europe and the United States. Many actors routinely equate his 'system' with the North American Method, although the latter's exclusively psychological techniques contrast sharply with Stanislavski's multivariant, holistic and psychophysical approach, which explores character and action both from the 'inside out' and the 'outside in' and treats the actor's mind and body as parts of a continuum.\n\nTheatre presupposes collaborative modes of production and a collective form of reception. The structure of dramatic texts, unlike other forms of literature, is directly influenced by this collaborative production and collective reception. The production of plays usually involves contributions from a playwright, director, a cast of actors, and a technical production team that includes a scenic or set designer, lighting designer, costume designer, sound designer, stage manager, production manager and technical director. Depending on the production, this team may also include a composer, dramaturg, video designer or fight director.\n\nStagecraft is a generic term referring to the technical aspects of theatrical, film, and video production. It includes, but is not limited to, constructing and rigging scenery, hanging and focusing of lighting, design and procurement of costumes, makeup, procurement of props, stage management, and recording and mixing of sound. Stagecraft is distinct from the wider umbrella term of scenography. Considered a technical rather than an artistic field, it relates primarily to the practical implementation of a designer's artistic vision.\n\nIn its most basic form, stagecraft is managed by a single person (often the stage manager of a smaller production) who arranges all scenery, costumes, lighting, and sound, and organizes the cast. At a more professional level, for example in modern Broadway houses, stagecraft is managed by hundreds of skilled carpenters, painters, electricians, stagehands, stitchers, wigmakers, and the like. This modern form of stagecraft is highly technical and specialized: it comprises many sub-disciplines and a vast trove of history and tradition. The majority of stagecraft lies between these two extremes. Regional theatres and larger community theatres will generally have a technical director and a complement of designers, each of whom has a direct hand in their respective designs.\n\nThere are many modern theatre movements which go about producing theatre in a variety of ways. Theatrical enterprises vary enormously in sophistication and purpose. People who are involved vary from novices and hobbyists (in community theatre) to professionals (in Broadway and similar productions). Theatre can be performed with a shoestring budget or on a grand scale with multimillion-dollar budgets. This diversity manifests in the abundance of theatre sub-categories, which include:\n\nWhile most modern theatre companies rehearse one piece of theatre at a time, perform that piece for a set \"run\", retire the piece, and begin rehearsing a new show, repertory companies rehearse multiple shows at one time. These companies are able to perform these various pieces upon request and often perform works for years before retiring them. Most dance companies operate on this repertory system. The Royal National Theatre in London performs on a repertory system.\n\nRepertory theatre generally involves a group of similarly accomplished actors, and relies more on the reputation of the group than on an individual star actor. It also typically relies less on strict control by a director and less on adherence to theatrical conventions, since actors who have worked together in multiple productions can respond to each other without relying as much on convention or external direction.\n\nIn order to put on a piece of theatre, both a theatre company and a theatre venue are needed. When a theatre company is the sole company in residence at a theatre venue, this theatre (and its corresponding theatre company) are called a resident theatre or a producing theatre, because the venue produces its own work. Other theatre companies, as well as dance companies, who do not have their own theatre venue, perform at rental theatres or at presenting theatres. Both rental and presenting theatres have no full-time resident companies. They do, however, sometimes have one or more part-time resident companies, in addition to other independent partner companies who arrange to use the space when available. A rental theatre allows the independent companies to seek out the space, while a presenting theatre seeks out the independent companies to support their work by presenting them on their stage.\n\nSome performance groups perform in non-theatrical spaces. Such performances can take place outside or inside, in a non-traditional performance space, and include street theatre, and site-specific theatre. Non-traditional venues can be used to create more immersive or meaningful environments for audiences. They can sometimes be modified more heavily than traditional theatre venues, or can accommodate different kinds of equipment, lighting and sets.\n\nA touring company is an independent theatre or dance company that travels, often internationally, being presented at a different theatre in each city.\n\nThere are many theatre unions including: Actors' Equity Association (for actors and stage managers), the Stage Directors and Choreographers Society (SDC), and the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees (IATSE, for designers and technicians). Many theatres require that their staff be members of these organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "24179704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24179704", "title": "Villa Armira", "text": "Villa Armira\n\nVilla Armira () is a 1st-century suburban Roman villa in southeastern Bulgaria, located in the proximity of Ivaylovgrad, Haskovo Province. Discovered in 1964 during reservoir construction, it is a primary historical attraction to the Ivaylovgrad area. It is classified as a monument of culture of national importance.\n\nVilla Armira lies some southwest of Ivaylovgrad. It was named after the Armira River, a minor tributary of the Arda. Villa Armira, a sumptuous palace villa, is one of the largest and most richly decorated Ancient Roman villas excavated in Bulgaria. It features rich marble decoration and complex floor mosaics, some geometric and some depicting animals and plants. The villa dates to the second half of the 1st century AD and originally belonged to a noble of Roman Thrace who is thought to have been the governor of the surrounding area. The two-storey U-shaped villa spreads over amidst a garden, with an \"impluvium\" in the middle. Villa Armira had 22 separate rooms on the ground floor alone in addition to a panorama terrace. The entire ground floor was covered in elaborately decorated white marble. The villa's floor mosaics display features typical of Ancient Roman art. The mosaics in the master's chamber depict the 2nd century AD owner with his two children: these are the only Roman-era mosaic portraits to be discovered in Bulgaria. A common theme in the villa's decoration is the gorgon Medusa. In the 3rd century AD, Villa Armira was expanded eastward with a \"triclinium\" and a hypocaust.\n\nVilla Armira is thought to have been destroyed in the late 4th century, possibly by the Goths some time around the Battle of Adrianople of 378. Today, the 2nd-century mosaic portraits of the owner and his children can be seen in the National Historical Museum in Sofia, the ceramic findings are exhibited in the National Archaeological Museum, while copies of the marble decoration are part of the Kardzhali Regional Historical Museum's fund. The villa itself, with many of the floor mosaics intact, underwent Phare-funded reconstruction and anastylosis and was opened for visitors in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "2139648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2139648", "title": "Virgil Aldrich", "text": "Virgil Aldrich\n\nVirgil Charles Aldrich (13 September 1903 in Narsinghpur, India – 28 May 1998 in Salt Lake City, Utah), was an American philosopher of art, language, and religion.\n\nThe son of Floyd Clement Aldrich and his wife Ann Hanley, Virgil Aldrich earned his Bachelor of Arts degree at Ohio Wesleyan University in 1925. He studied at Oxford University in 1927 and then went on to earn a \"Diplôme d'Études Supérieures de Philosophie\" at the Sorbonne in 1928 before completing his Ph.D. at the University of California Berkeley in 1931. He married Louise Hafliger on 3 September 1927 and they had one son, David Virgil Aldrich.\n\nAldrich's first academic appointment was his appointment as an instructor in philosophy at Rice University in 1931 and Sterling Fellow at Yale University in 1931-32. Promoted to assistant professor, he remained at Rice until 1942, when he was appointed visiting professor at Columbia University from 1942 to 1946. Appointed professor of philosophy at Kenyon College in 1946, he remained there until 1965, serving as visiting professor at Brown University in 1962-63. In 1965, he became professor of philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where he remained until his retirement in 1972. On his retirement, he moved to Salt Lake City, Utah, where he became an adjunct professor at the University of Utah.\n\nAldrich served as Director of the Kyoto American Studies Institute in Japan and for short periods was visiting professor at Harvard University, the University of Michigan, and the University of Texas. He served as trustee and president of the American Society of Aesthetics and president of American Philosophical Association.\n\nIn his article \"Some Meanings of Vague\", Aldrich puts forth a series of definitions of vague objects and sensum, and then argues that any empiricist must account for vague sensum every bit as much as clear sensum, without skirting the issue. He takes there to be many kinds of vagueness—importantly, there is vagueness of symbols and vagueness of senses. Here symbols are anything which is used to refer, including verbal words, signs, pictures, and more. Vagueness regarding symbols can be the same as the vagueness which regards the senses. There can, additionally, be vagueness of the practices surrounding the use of the symbol to refer. These, he suggests, should be avoided.\n\n\nBooks:\n11 December 2010\n\nContributions:\n\nFestschrift\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "854811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=854811", "title": "Écriture féminine", "text": "Écriture féminine\n\nÉcriture féminine translates from the French as \"women's writing\". The theory, which unpacks the relationship between the cultural and psychological inscription of the female body and female difference in language and text, is a strain of feminist literary theory that originated in France in the early 1970s through the work of theorists including Hélène Cixous, Monique Wittig, Luce Irigaray, Chantal Chawaf, Catherine Clément, and Julia Kristeva and has subsequently been extended by writers such as psychoanalytic theorist Bracha Ettinger, who emerged in this field in the early 1990s.\n\nÉcriture féminine as a theory foregrounds the importance of language for the psychic understanding of self. The theory draws on the foundational work in psychoanalysis about the way that humans come to understand their social roles. In doing so, it goes on to expound how women, who may be positioned as 'other' in a masculine symbolic order, can reaffirm their understanding of the world through engaging with their own outsiderness.\n\nHélène Cixous first coined \"écriture féminine\" in her essay, \"The Laugh of the Medusa\" (1975), where she asserts \"woman must write her self: must write about women and bring women to writing, from which they have been driven away as violently as from their bodies\" because their sexual pleasure has been repressed and denied expression. Inspired by Cixous' essay, a recent book titled \"Laughing with Medusa\" (2006) analyzes the collective work of Julia Kristeva, Luce Irigaray, Bracha Ettinger and Hélène Cixous. These writers are as a whole referred to by Anglophones as \"the French feminists,\" though Mary Klages, Associate Professor in the English Department at the University of Colorado at Boulder, has pointed out that \"poststructuralist theoretical feminists\" would be a more accurate term. Madeleine Gagnon is a more recent proponent. And since the aforementioned 1975 when Cixous also founded women's studies at Vincennes, she has been as a spokeswoman for the group \"Psychanalyse et politique\" and a prolific writer of texts for their publishing house, \"des femmes\". And when asked of her own writing she says, \"Je suis là où ça parle\" (\"I am there where it/id/the female unconscious speaks.\") \n\nAmerican feminist critic and writer Elaine Showalter defines this movement as \"the inscription of the feminine body and female difference in language and text.\" \"Écriture féminine\" places experience before language, and privileges non-linear, cyclical writing that evades \"the discourse that regulates the phallocentric system.\" Because language is not a neutral medium, it can be said to function as an instrument of patriarchal expression. As Peter Barry writes, “the female writer is seen as suffering the handicap of having to use a medium (prose writing) which is essentially a male instrument fashioned for male purposes”. \"Ecriture féminine\" thus exists as an antithesis of masculine writing or as a means of escape for women.\n\nIn the words of Rosemarie Tong, “Cixous challenged women to write themselves out of the world men constructed for women. She urged women to put themselves-the unthinkable/unthought-into words.”\nAlmost everything is yet to be written by women about femininity: about their sexuality, that is, its infinite and mobile complexity; about their eroticization, sudden turn-ons of a certain minuscule-immense area of their bodies; not about destiny, but about the adventure of such and such a drive, about trips, crossings, trudges, abrupt and gradual awakenings, discoveries of a zone at once timorous and soon to be forthright. \nWith regard to phallogocentric writing, Tong argues that \"male sexuality, which centers on what Cixous called the \"big dick\", is ultimately boring in its pointedness and singularity. Like male sexuality, masculine writing, which Cixous usually termed phallogocentric writing, is also ultimately boring\" and furthermore, that \"stamped with the official seal of social approval, masculine writing is too weighted down to move or change\".\nWrite, let no one hold you back, let nothing stop you: not man; not the imbecilic capitalist machinery, in which the publishing houses are the crafty, obsequious relayers of imperatives handed down by an economy that works against us and off our backs; not \"yourself\". Smug-faced readers, managing editors, and big bosses don't like the true texts of women- female-sexed texts. That kind scares them.\nFor Cixous, \"écriture féminine\" is not only a possibility for female writers; rather, she believes it can be (and has been) employed by male authors such as James Joyce or Jean Genet. Some have found this idea difficult to reconcile with Cixous’ definition of \"écriture féminine\" (often termed ‘white ink’) because of the many references she makes to the female body (“There is always in her at least a little of that good mother’s milk. She writes in white ink”.) when characterizing the essence of écriture féminine and explaining its origin. This notion raises problems for some theorists:\n\"\"Ecriture féminine\", then, is by its nature transgressive, rule-transcending, intoxicated, but it is clear that the notion as put forward by Cixous raises many problems. The realm of the body, for instance, is seen as somehow immune to social and gender condition and able to issue forth a pure essence of the feminine. Such essentialism is difficult to square with feminism which emphasizes femininity as a social construction…\"\n\nFor Luce Irigaray, women's sexual pleasure \"jouissance\" cannot be expressed by the dominant, ordered, \"logical,\" masculine language because, according to Kristeva, feminine language is derived from the pre-oedipal period of fusion between mother and child which she termed the semiotic. Associated with the maternal, feminine language (which Irigaray called \"parler femme\", womanspeak) is not only a threat to culture, which is patriarchal, but also a medium through which women may be creative in new ways. Irigaray expressed this connection between women's sexuality and women's language through the following analogy: women's \"jouissance\" is more multiple than men's unitary, phallic pleasure because \n\"woman has sex organs just about everywhere...feminine language is more diffusive than its 'masculine counterpart'. That is undoubtedly the reason...her language...goes off in all directions and...he is unable to discern the coherence.\" \nIrigaray and Cixous also go on to emphasize that women, historically limited to being sexual objects for men (virgins or prostitutes, wives or mothers), have been prevented from expressing their sexuality in itself or for themselves. If they can do this, and if they can speak about it in the new languages it calls for, they will establish a point of view (a site of difference) from which phallogocentric concepts and controls can be seen through and taken apart, not only in theory, but also in practice.\n\nThe approach through language to feminist action has been criticised by some as over-theoretical: they would see the fact that the very first meeting of a handful of would-be feminist activists in 1970 only managed to launch an acrimonious theoretical debate as marking the situation as typically 'French' in its apparent insistence on the primacy of theory over politics. Nonetheless, in practice the French women's movement developed in much the same way as the feminist movements elsewhere in Europe or in the United States: French women participated in consciousness-raising groups; demonstrated in the streets on the 8 March; fought hard for women's right to choose whether to have children; raised the issue of violence against women; and struggled to change public opinion on issues concerning women and women's rights.\n\nFurther criticisms of écriture féminine include its essentialist view of the body; its over-reliance on a feminism of 'difference'; and its tendency to demonise not only the masculine but those (many) women authors who write or have written in more conventional, linear literary forms.\n\nAs a result of the difficulties inherent in the notion of \"écriture féminine\", very few books of literary criticism have run the risk of using it as a critical tool. A. S. Byatt offers: \"There is a marine and salty female wave-water to be...read as a symbol of female language, which is partly suppressed, partly self-communing, dumb before the intruding male and not able to speak out...thus mirroring those female secretions which are not inscribed in our daily use of language (\"langue\", tongue)\".\n\n\n"}
