{"id": "4938471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4938471", "title": "Act of state doctrine", "text": "Act of state doctrine\n\nThe act-of-state doctrine or foreign act of state doctrine is a principle in English and United States law which states that every sovereign state is bound to respect the independence of every other sovereign state, and the courts will not sit in judgment of another government's acts done within its own territory. \nThe doctrine is not required by international law (neither customary international law nor treaty law), but it is a principle recognized and adhered to by United States federal and state courts. In the United States, the rationales for the doctrine include respect for other nations' sovereignty and protection of the U.S. Executive's prerogative in foreign affairs, both of which may be frustrated by a decision issuing from U.S. courts.\n\nThe Act of State Doctrine enters consideration most often in cases where a foreign sovereign has expropriated the property of a U.S. national located in that foreign territory (e.g. through nationalization). Rather than pursuing recourse through the courts, United States nationals are to take their claims against foreign sovereign governments to the Executive so that the government can either espouse the claims of all U.S. nationals as a group or seek recourse through diplomatic channels. The United States employs the Act of State Doctrine more broadly and with more frequency than other countries.\n\nThe Act of State Doctrine, which arose out of colonial practice in the 17th Century, entered into American jurisprudence in the case Underhill v. Hernandez, . In an 1892 revolution, General José Manuel \"Mocho\" Hernández expelled the existing Venezuelan government and took control of Ciudad Bolivar, where plaintiff Underhill lived and ran a waterworks system for the city. Underhill, an American citizen, repeatedly applied to Hernandez for an exit passport, but his requests were refused, and Underhill was forced to stay in Ciudad Bolivar and run the waterworks. Hernandez finally relented and allowed Underhill to return to the United States, where he instituted an action to recover damages for his detention in Venezuela. In finding for the Defendant, a New York Court determined that Hernandez had acted in his official capacity as a military commander so his actions were those of the Venezuelan government. The Court therefore refused to hear Underhill's claim against the government based on the Act of State Doctrine. The Court reasoned, \"Every sovereign state is bound to respect the independence of every other sovereign state, and the courts of one country will not sit in judgment on the acts of the government of another, done within its own territory.\"\n\nIn \"Banco Nacional de Cuba v. Sabbatino\", , the United States Supreme Court applied the Act of State Doctrine even where the state action likely violated international law. The case arose when Cuba nationalized its sugar industry, taking control of sugar refineries and other companies in the wake of the Cuban revolution. A large number of Americans who had invested in those companies lost their investments without compensation when the Cuban government assumed control. However, despite the loss suffered by United States nationals, the Supreme Court upheld the Act of State Doctrine by assuming the validity of Cuba's domestic action and therefore rejected the claim of US nationals against Cuba for their lost investments.\n\nThe \"Sabbatino\" Court stated that although the Doctrine is not found in the Constitution, explicitly or implicitly, it does have \"constitutional underpinnings\" in the concept of separation of powers. The Supreme Court reasoned that because the Executive had exclusive authority to conduct foreign affairs with other nations on behalf of the United States, disputes arising from the official actions of foreign sovereign powers should not be settled by the Judiciary because those decisions could interfere with the Executive's conduct of foreign affairs.\n\nIn response to the outcome of the case, Congress enacted , more commonly referred to as the \"Second Hickenlooper Amendment\", named after the bill's sponsor, Bourke B. Hickenlooper, an Iowa Senator. Generally, under the Hickenlooper Amendment, courts are not to apply the Act of State Doctrine as a bar against hearing cases of expropriation by a foreign sovereign. There is an exception if the Executive requests that the courts consider the Act of State Doctrine because foreign policy interests may be damaged by judicial interference:\n\nThe foreign act of state doctrine applies in English law. In April 2018, the English Commercial Court ruled that it also applies in English arbitration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "68672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68672", "title": "Anger", "text": "Anger\n\nAnger or wrath is an intense expression of emotion. It involves a strong uncomfortable and hostile response to a perceived provocation, hurt or threat. Anger can occur when a person feels their personal boundaries are being or are about to be violated. Some have a learned tendency to react to anger through retaliation as a way of coping. Raymond Novaco of University of California Irvine, who since 1975 has published a plethora of literature on the subject, stratified anger into three modalities: cognitive (appraisals), somatic-affective (tension and agitations), and behavioral (withdrawal and antagonism). William DeFoore, an anger management writer, described anger as a pressure cooker: we can only apply pressure against our anger for a certain amount of time until it explodes.\n\nA person experiencing anger will often experience physical conditions, such as increased heart rate, elevated blood pressure, and increased levels of adrenaline and noradrenaline. Some view anger as an emotion which triggers part of the fight or flight brain response. Anger is used as a protective mechanism to cover up fear, hurt or sadness. Anger becomes the predominant feeling behaviorally, cognitively, and physiologically when a person makes the conscious choice to take action to immediately stop the threatening behavior of another outside force. The English term originally comes from the term \"anger\" of Old Norse language. Anger can have many physical and mental consequences.\n\nThe external expression of anger can be found in facial expressions, body language, physiological responses, and at times public acts of aggression. Facial expressions can range from inward angling of the eyebrows to a full frown. Some animals, for example, make loud sounds, attempt to look physically larger, bare their teeth, and stare. The behaviors associated with anger are designed to warn aggressors to stop their threatening behavior. Rarely does a physical altercation occur without the prior expression of anger by at least one of the participants. While most of those who experience anger explain its arousal as a result of \"what has happened to them,\" psychologists point out that an angry person can very well be mistaken because anger causes a loss in self-monitoring capacity and objective observability.\n\nModern psychologists view anger as a primary, natural, and mature emotion experienced by virtually all humans at times, and as something that has functional value for survival. Anger is seen as a supportive mechanism to show a person that something is wrong and requires changing. Anger can mobilize psychological resources for corrective action. Uncontrolled anger can, however, negatively affect personal or social well-being and impact negatively on those around them. It is equally challenging to be around an angry person and the impact can also cause psychological/emotional trauma if not dealt with. While many philosophers and writers have warned against the spontaneous and uncontrolled fits of anger, there has been disagreement over the intrinsic value of anger. The issue of dealing with anger has been written about since the times of the earliest philosophers, but modern psychologists, in contrast to earlier writers, have also pointed out the possible harmful effects of suppressing anger. Displays of anger can be used as a manipulation strategy for social influence.\n\nThree types of anger are recognized by psychologists:\n\nAnger can potentially mobilize psychological resources and boost determination toward correction of wrong behaviors, promotion of social justice, communication of negative sentiment, and redress of grievances. It can also facilitate patience. In contrast, anger can be destructive when it does not find its appropriate outlet in expression. Anger, in its strong form, impairs one's ability to process information and to exert cognitive control over their behavior. An angry person may lose his/her objectivity, empathy, prudence or thoughtfulness and may cause harm to themselves or others. There is a sharp distinction between anger and aggression (verbal or physical, direct or indirect) even though they mutually influence each other. While anger can activate aggression or increase its probability or intensity, it is neither a necessary nor a sufficient condition for aggression.\n\nExtension of the Stimuli of the Fighting Reactions. At the beginning of life the human infant struggles indiscriminately against any restraining force, whether it be another human being or a blanket which confines his movements. There is no inherited susceptibility to social stimuli, as distinct from other stimulation, in anger. At a later date the child learns that certain actions, such as striking, scolding, and screaming, are effective toward persons, but not toward things. In adults, although the infantile response is still sometimes seen, the fighting reaction becomes fairly well limited to stimuli whose hurting or restraining influence can be thrown off by physical violence.<ref name=\"https://www.brocku.ca/MeadProject/Allport/1924/1924_03.html\">Fundamental Activities — Inherited and Learned</ref>\n\nThe words annoyance and rage are often imagined to be at opposite ends of an emotional continuum: mild irritation and annoyance at the low end and fury or murderous rage at the high end. Rage problems are conceptualized as \"the inability to process emotions or life's experiences\" either because the capacity to regulate emotion (Schore, 1994) has never been sufficiently developed or because it has been temporarily lost due to more recent trauma. Rage is understood as raw, undifferentiated emotions, that spill out when another life event that cannot be processed, no matter how trivial, puts more stress on the organism than it can bear.\n\nAnger, when viewed as a protective response or instinct to a perceived threat, is considered as positive. The negative expression of this state is known as aggression. Acting on this misplaced state is rage due to possible potential errors in perception and judgment.\n\nExamples\n\nOne simple dichotomy of anger expression is passive anger versus aggressive anger versus assertive anger.\nThese three types of anger have some characteristic symptoms:\n\nPassive anger can be expressed in the following ways: \n\nThe symptoms of aggressive anger are:\n\n\nAnger expression can take on many more styles than passive or aggressive. Ephrem Fernandez has identified six dimensions of anger expression. They relate to the direction of anger, its locus, reaction, modality, impulsivity, and objective. Coordinates on each of these dimensions can be connected to generate a profile of a person's anger expression style. Among the many profiles that are theoretically possible in this system, are the familiar profile of the person with explosive anger, profile of the person with repressive anger, profile of the passive aggressive person, and the profile of constructive anger expression.\n\nPeople feel angry when they sense that they or someone they care about has been offended, when they are certain about the nature and cause of the angering event, when they are convinced someone else is responsible, and when they feel they can still influence the situation or cope with it. For instance, if a person's car is damaged, they will feel angry if someone else did it (e.g. another driver rear-ended it), but will feel sadness instead if it was caused by situational forces (e.g. a hailstorm) or guilt and shame if they were personally responsible (e.g. he crashed into a wall out of momentary carelessness). Psychotherapist Michael C. Graham defines anger in terms of our expectations and assumptions about the world. Graham states anger almost always results when we are caught up \"... expecting the world to be different than it is\".\n\nUsually, those who experience anger explain its arousal as a result of \"what has happened to them\" and in most cases the described provocations occur immediately before the anger experience. Such explanations confirm the illusion that anger has a discrete external cause. The angry person usually finds the cause of their anger in an intentional, personal, and controllable aspect of another person's behavior. This explanation, however, is based on the intuitions of the angry person who experiences a loss in self-monitoring capacity and objective observability as a result of their emotion. Anger can be of multicausal origin, some of which may be remote events, but people rarely find more than \"one\" cause for their anger. According to Novaco, \"Anger experiences are embedded or nested within an environmental-temporal context. Disturbances that may not have involved anger at the outset leave residues that are not readily recognized but that operate as a lingering backdrop for focal provocations (of anger).\" According to Encyclopædia Britannica, an internal infection can cause pain which in turn can activate anger.\n\nAnger causes a reduction in cognitive ability and the accurate processing of external stimuli. Dangers seem smaller, actions seem less risky, ventures seem more likely to succeed, and unfortunate events seem less likely. Angry people are more likely to make risky decisions, and make less realistic risk assessments. In one study, test subjects primed to feel angry felt less likely to suffer heart disease, and more likely to receive a pay raise, compared to fearful people. This tendency can manifest in retrospective thinking as well: in a 2005 study, angry subjects said they thought the risks of terrorism in the year following 9/11 in retrospect were low, compared to what the fearful and neutral subjects thought.\n\nIn inter-group relationships, anger makes people think in more negative and prejudiced terms about outsiders. Anger makes people less trusting, and slower to attribute good qualities to outsiders.\n\nWhen a group is in conflict with a rival group, it will feel more anger if it is the politically stronger group and less anger when it is the weaker.\n\nUnlike other negative emotions like sadness and fear, angry people are more likely to demonstrate correspondence bias – the tendency to blame a person's behavior more on his nature than on his circumstances. They tend to rely more on stereotypes, and pay less attention to details and more attention to the superficial. In this regard, anger is unlike other \"negative\" emotions such as sadness and fear, which promote analytical thinking.\n\nAn angry person tends to anticipate other events that might cause them anger. They will tend to rate anger-causing events (e.g. being sold a faulty car) as more likely than sad events (e.g. a good friend moving away).\n\nA person who is angry tends to place more blame on another person for their misery. This can create a feedback, as this extra blame can make the angry person angrier still, so they in turn place yet more blame on the other person.\n\nWhen people are in a certain emotional state, they tend to pay more attention to, or remember, things that are charged with the same emotion; so it is with anger. For instance, if you are trying to persuade someone that a tax increase is necessary, if the person is currently feeling angry you would do better to use an argument that elicits anger (\"more criminals will escape justice\") than, say, an argument that elicits sadness (\"there will be fewer welfare benefits for disabled children\"). Also, unlike other negative emotions, which focus attention on all negative events, anger only focuses attention on anger-causing events.\n\nAnger can make a person more desiring of an object to which his anger is tied. In a 2010 Dutch study, test subjects were primed to feel anger or fear by being shown an image of an angry or fearful face, and then were shown an image of a random object. When subjects were made to feel angry, they expressed more desire to possess that object than subjects who had been primed to feel fear.\n\nAs with any emotion, the display of anger can be feigned or exaggerated. Studies by Hochschild and Sutton have shown that the show of anger is likely to be an effective manipulation strategy in order to change and design attitudes. Anger is a distinct strategy of social influence and its use (i.e. belligerent behaviors) as a goal achievement mechanism proves to be a successful strategy.\n\nLarissa Tiedens, known for her studies of anger, claimed that expression of feelings would cause a powerful influence not only on the perception of the expresser but also on their power position in the society. She studied the correlation between anger expression and social influence perception. Previous researchers, such as Keating, 1985 have found that people with angry face expression were perceived as powerful and as in a high social position. Similarly, Tiedens et al. have revealed that people who compared scenarios involving an angry and a sad character, attributed a higher social status to the angry character. Tiedens examined in her study whether anger expression promotes status attribution. In other words, whether anger contributes to perceptions or legitimization of others' behaviors. Her findings clearly indicated that participants who were exposed to either an angry or a sad person were inclined to express support for the angry person rather than for a sad one. In addition, it was found that a reason for that decision originates from the fact that the person expressing anger was perceived as an ability owner, and was attributed a certain social status accordingly.\n\nShowing anger during a negotiation may increase the ability of the anger expresser to succeed in negotiation. A study by Tiedens et al. indicated that the anger expressers were perceived as stubborn, dominant and powerful. In addition, it was found that people were inclined to easily give up to those who were perceived by them as powerful and stubborn, rather than soft and submissive. Based on these findings Sinaceur and Tiedens have found that people conceded more to the angry side rather than for the non-angry one.\n\nA question raised by Van Kleef et al. based on these findings was whether expression of emotion influences others, since it is known that people use emotional information to conclude about others' limits and match their demands in negotiation accordingly. Van Kleef et al. wanted to explore whether people give up more easily to an angry opponent or to a happy opponent. Findings revealed that participants tended to be more flexible toward an angry opponent compared with a happy opponent. These results strengthen the argument that participants analyze the opponent's emotion to conclude about their limits and carry out their decisions accordingly.\n\nAccording to Leland R. Beaumont, each instance of anger demands making a choice. A person can respond with hostile action, including overt violence, or they can respond with hostile inaction, such as withdrawing or stonewalling. Other options include initiating a dominance contest; harboring resentment; or working to better understand and constructively resolve the issue.\n\nAccording to R. Novaco, there are a multitude of steps that were researched in attempting to deal with this emotion. In order to manage anger the problems involved in the anger should be discussed, Novaco suggests. The situations leading to anger should be explored by the person. The person is then tried to be imagery-based relieved of his or her recent angry experiences.\n\nConventional therapies for anger involve restructuring thoughts and beliefs to bring about a reduction in anger. These therapies often come within the schools of CBT (or Cognitive Behavioural Therapies) like modern systems such as REBT (Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy). Research shows that people who suffer from excessive anger often harbor and act on dysfunctional attributions, assumptions and evaluations in specific situations. It has been shown that with therapy by a trained professional, individuals can bring their anger to more manageable levels. The therapy is followed by the so-called \"stress inoculation\" in which the clients are taught \"relaxation skills to control their arousal and various cognitive controls to exercise on their attention, thoughts, images, and feelings. They are taught to see the provocation and the anger itself as occurring in a series of stages, each of which can be dealt with.\"\n\nThe Skills-deficit model states that poor social skills is what renders a person incapable of expressing anger in an appropriate manner.\nSocial skills training has been found to be an effective method for reducing exaggerated anger by offering alternative coping skills to the angry individual. Research has found that persons who are prepared for aversive events find them less threatening, and excitatory reactions are significantly reduced. In a 1981 study, that used modeling, behavior rehearsal, and videotaped feedback to increase anger control skills, showed increases in anger control among aggressive youth in the study. Research conducted with youthful offenders using a social skills training program (aggression replacement training), found significant reductions in anger, and increases in anger control. \nResearch has also found that antisocial personalities are more likely to learn avoidance tasks when the consequences involved obtaining or losing tangible rewards. Learning among antisocial personalities also occurred better when they were involved with high intensity stimulation. Social Learning Theory states that positive stimulation was not compatible with hostile or aggressive reactions. Anger research has also studied the effects of reducing anger among adults with antisocial personality disorder (ASPD), with a social skills program approach that used a low fear and high arousal group setting. This research found that low fear messages were less provocative to the ASPD population, and high positive arousal stimulated their ability to concentrate, and subsequently learn new skills for anger reduction.\n\nA new integrative approach to anger treatment has been formulated by Ephrem Fernandez (2010) Termed CBAT, for cognitive behavioral affective therapy, this treatment goes beyond conventional relaxation and reappraisal by adding cognitive and behavioral techniques and supplementing them with affective techniques to deal with the feeling of anger. The techniques are sequenced contingently in three phases of treatment: prevention, intervention, and postvention. In this way, people can be trained to deal with the onset of anger, its progression, and the residual features of anger.\n\nModern psychologists point out that suppression of anger may have harmful effects. The suppressed anger may find another outlet, such as a physical symptom, or become more extreme. John W. Fiero cites Los Angeles riots of 1992 as an example of sudden, explosive release of suppressed anger. The anger was then displaced as violence against those who had nothing to do with the matter. There is also the case of Francine Hughes, who suffered 13 years of domestic abuse. Her suppressed anger drove her to kill her abuser husband. It is claimed that a majority of female victims of domestic violence who suppress their aggressive feelings are unable to recognize, experience, and process negative emotion and this has a destabilizing influence on their perception of agency in their relationships. Another example of widespread deflection of anger from its actual cause toward scapegoating, Fiero says, was the blaming of Jews for the economic ills of Germany by the Nazis. \n\nHowever, psychologists have also criticized the \"catharsis theory\" of aggression, which suggests that \"unleashing\" pent-up anger reduces aggression. On the other hand, there are experts who maintain that suppression does not eliminate anger since it merely forbids the expression of anger and this is also the case for repression, which merely hides anger from awareness. There are also studies that link suppressed anger and medical conditions such as hypertension, coronary artery disease, and cancer. Suppressed or repressed anger is found to cause irritable bowel syndrome, eating disorders, and depression among women. Suppression is also referred to as a form of \"self-silencing\", which is described as a cognitive activity wherein an individual monitors the self and eliminate thoughts and feelings that are perceived to be dangerous to relationships. Anger suppression is also associated with higher rates of suicide.\n\nAnger expression might have negative outcomes for individuals and organizations as well, such as decrease of productivity and increase of job stress, however it could also have positive outcomes, such as increased work motivation, improved relationships, increased mutual understanding etc. (for ex. Tiedens, 2000). A Dual Thresholds Model of Anger in organizations by Geddes and Callister, (2007) provides an explanation on the valence of anger expression outcomes. The model suggests that organizational norms establish emotion thresholds that may be crossed when employees feel anger. The first \"expression threshold\" is crossed when an organizational member conveys felt anger to individuals at work who are associated with or able to address the anger-provoking situation. The second \"impropriety threshold\" is crossed if or when organizational members go too far while expressing anger such that observers and other company personnel find their actions socially and/or culturally inappropriate.\n\nThe higher probability of negative outcomes from workplace anger likely will occur in either of two situations. The first is when organizational members suppress rather than express their anger—that is, they fail to cross the \"expression threshold\". In this instance personnel who might be able to address or resolve the anger-provoking condition or event remain unaware of the problem, allowing it to continue, along with the affected individual's anger. The second is when organizational members cross both thresholds—\"double cross\"— displaying anger that is perceived as deviant. In such cases the angry person is seen as the problem—increasing chances of organizational sanctions against him or her while diverting attention away from the initial anger-provoking incident. In contrast, a higher probability of positive outcomes from workplace anger expression likely will occur when one's expressed anger stays in the space between the expression and impropriety thresholds. Here, one expresses anger in a way fellow organizational members find acceptable, prompting exchanges and discussions that may help resolve concerns to the satisfaction of all parties involved. This space between the thresholds varies among different organizations and also can be changed in organization itself: when the change is directed to support anger displays; the space between the thresholds will be expanded and when the change is directed to suppressing such displays; the space will be reduced.\n\nIn neuroimaging studies of anger, the most consistently activated region of the brain was the lateral orbitofrontal cortex. This region is associated with approach motivation and positive affective processes.\n\nThe PSI theory uses emotions as a guide for the memory to process, plan and initiate an action to fulfill a current need. There are 3 parameters that help in regulating the information process along with the behaviour tendencies (flight, exploration, aggression, etc.) that show the individual how they should react.\n\n\nResolution level\n\nSituations can be associated in terms of breadth and width so that information can be retrieved from the long-term memory and the PSI system can get ideas that vary with depending on the information. If the resolution level was deep and wide more information could be retrieved, allowing the creation of more idea. While if the resolution level was short and narrow lesser information is extracted, therefore creating fewer ideas.\n\nSelection Threshold\n\nIt allows the control of motivation, in way where you can focus on one motive or on a number at a given time. This is very dependent on the activation parameter. The general threshold is around mid-level. So, if the threshold was high the PSI focuses on the current motive while other needs become irrelevant or possess little interest to the individual at the time, but the individual will overlook all dangers and opportunities of the situation. However, if the threshold was lower, the individual will get distracted very easily and the motivations can vary at any given time.\n\nActivation\n\nThe level of competence is affected by the level of activation and can direct the individual to become ready for action or not. The general competence level is around mid-level. With the activation on high the level of competence drops so that the individual becomes more action ready. So, when low the competence level is high, and the individual is not as ready to jump into action.\n\nAnger Regulation\n\nThe activation level will increase so that the individual becomes more action ready and, this in turn increases the selection threshold causing the individual to focus solely on the trigger. The resolution level will drop so that perception and planning become low resulting in a quick action that may be risky and perhaps lead to aggression.\n\nNeuroscience has shown that emotions are generated by multiple structures in the brain. The rapid, minimal, and evaluative processing of the emotional significance of the sensory data is done when the data passes through the amygdala in its travel from the sensory organs along certain neural pathways towards the limbic forebrain. Emotion caused by discrimination of stimulus features, thoughts, or memories however occurs when its information is relayed from the thalamus to the neocortex. Based on some statistical analysis, some scholars have suggested that the tendency for anger may be genetic. Distinguishing between genetic and environmental factors however requires further research and actual measurement of specific genes and environments.\n\nThe external expression of anger can be found in physiological responses, facial expressions, body language, and at times in public acts of aggression. The rib cage tenses and breathing through the nose becomes faster, deeper, and irregular. Anger activates the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis. The catecholamine activation is more strongly norepinephrine than epinephrine. Heart rate and blood pressure increase. Blood flows to the hands. Perspiration increases (particularly when the anger is intense). The face flushes. The nostrils flare. The jaw tenses. The brow muscles move inward and downward, fixing a hard stare on the target. The arms are raised and a squared-off stance is adopted. The body is mobilized for immediate action, often manifesting as a subjective sense of strength, self-assurance, and potency. This may encourage the impulse to strike out.\n\nAncient Greek philosophers, describing and commenting on the uncontrolled anger, particularly toward slaves, in their society generally showed a hostile attitude towards anger. Galen and Seneca regarded anger as a kind of madness. They all rejected the spontaneous, uncontrolled fits of anger and agreed on both the possibility and value of controlling anger. There were however disagreements regarding the value of anger. For Seneca, anger was \"worthless even for war.\" Seneca believed that the disciplined Roman army was regularly able to beat the Germans, who were known for their fury. He argued that \"... in sporting contests, it is a mistake to become angry\".\n\nAristotle on the other hand, ascribed some value to anger that has arisen from perceived injustice because it is useful for preventing injustice. Furthermore, the opposite of anger is a kind of insensibility, Aristotle stated. The difference in people's temperaments was generally viewed as a result of the different mix of qualities or humors people contained. Seneca held that \"red-haired and red-faced people are hot-tempered because of excessive hot and dry humors.\" Ancient philosophers rarely refer to women's anger at all, according to Simon Kemp and K. T. Strongman perhaps because their works were not intended for women. Some of them that discuss it, such as Seneca, considered women to be more prone to anger than men.\n\nSeneca addresses the question of mastering anger in three parts: 1. how to avoid becoming angry in the first place 2. how to cease being angry and 3. how to deal with anger in others. Seneca suggests, to avoid becoming angry in the first place, that the many faults of anger should be repeatedly remembered. One should avoid being too busy or deal with anger-provoking people. Unnecessary hunger or thirst should be avoided and soothing music be listened to. To cease being angry, Seneca suggests \"one to check speech and impulses and be aware of particular sources of personal irritation. In dealing with other people, one should not be too inquisitive: It is not always soothing to hear and see everything. When someone appears to slight you, you should be at first reluctant to believe this, and should wait to hear the full story. You should also put yourself in the place of the other person, trying to understand his motives and any extenuating factors, such as age or illness.\" Seneca further advises daily self-inquisition about one's bad habit. To deal with anger in others, Seneca suggests that the best reaction is to simply keep calm. A certain kind of deception, Seneca says, is necessary in dealing with angry people.\n\nGalen repeats Seneca's points but adds a new one: finding a guide and teacher can help the person in controlling their passions. Galen also gives some hints for finding a good teacher. Both Seneca and Galen (and later philosophers) agree that the process of controlling anger should start in childhood on grounds of malleability. Seneca warns that this education should not blunt the spirit of the children nor should they be humiliated or treated severely. At the same time, they should not be pampered. Children, Seneca says, should learn not to beat their playmates and not to become angry with them. Seneca also advises that children's requests should not be granted when they are angry.\n\nDuring the period of the Roman Empire and the Middle Ages, philosophers elaborated on the existing conception of anger, many of whom did not make major contributions to the concept. For example, many medieval philosophers such as Ibn Sina (Avicenna), Roger Bacon and Thomas Aquinas agreed with ancient philosophers that animals cannot become angry. On the other hand, al-Ghazali (Algazel), who often disagreed with Aristotle and Ibn Sina on many issues, argued that animals do possess anger as one of the three \"powers\" in their heart, the other two being appetite and impulse. He also argued that animal will is \"conditioned by anger and appetite\" in contrast to human will which is \"conditioned by the intellect.\" A common medieval belief was that those prone to anger had an excess of yellow bile or choler (hence the word \"choleric\"). This belief was related to Seneca's belief that \"red-haired and red-faced people are hot-tempered because of excessive hot and dry humors.\"\n\nWrath was sinful because of the social problems it caused, sometimes even homicide. It served to ignore those who are present, contradicts those who are absent, produces insults, and responds harshly to insults that are received. Aristotle felt that anger or wrath was a natural outburst of self- defense in situations where people felt they had been wronged. Aquinas felt that if anger was justified, it was not a sin. For example, \"He that is angry without cause, shall be in danger; but he that is angry with cause, shall not be in danger: for without anger, teaching will be useless, judgments unstable, crimes unchecked. Therefore to be angry is not always an evil.\"\n\nThe concept of wrath contributed to a definition of gender and power. Many medieval authors in 1200 agreed the differences between men and women were based on complexion, shape, and disposition. Complexion involved the balance of the four fundamental qualities of heat, coldness, moistness, and dryness. When various combinations of these qualities are made they define groups of certain people as well as individuals. Hippocrates, Aristotle, and Galen all agreed on that, in terms of biology and sexual differentiation, heat was the most important of the qualities because it determined shape and disposition. Disposition included a balance of the previous four qualities, the four elements and the four humors. For example, the element of fire shared the qualities of heat and dryness: fire dominated in yellow bile or choler, meaning a choleric person was more or hot and dry than others. Hot and dry individuals were active, dominant, and aggressive. The opposite was true with the element of water. Water, is cold and moist, related closely to phlegm: people with more phlegmatic personalities were passive and submissive. While these trait clusters varied from individual to individual most authors in the Middle Ages assumed certain clusters of traits characterized men more than women and vice versa.\n\nScholars posted that females were seen by authors in the Middle Ages to be more phlegmatic (cold and wet) than males, meaning females were more sedentary and passive than males. Women's passive nature appeared \"natural\" due to their lack of power when compared to men. Aristotle identified traits he believed women shared: female, feminine, passive, focused on matter, inactive, and inferior. Thus medieval women were supposed to act submissively toward men and relinquish control to their husbands. However Hildegard of Bingen believed women were fully capable of anger. While most women were phlegmatic, individual women under certain circumstances could also be choleric.\n\nMedieval scholars believed most men were choleric, or hot and dry. Thus they were dominant and aggressive. (Barton) Aristotle also identified characteristics of men: male, masculine, active, focused on form, potent, outstanding, and superior. Men were aware of the power they held. Given their choleric \"nature\", men exhibited hot temperatures and were quick to anger. Peter of Albano once said, \"The male's spirit, is lively, given to violent impulse; [it is] slow getting angry and slower being calmed.\" Medieval ideas of gender assumed men were more rational than women. Masculinity involved a wide range of possible behaviors, and men were not angry all the time. Every man's humoral balance was different, some men were strong, other weak, also some more prone to wrath then others. There are those who view anger as a manly act. For instance, David Brakke maintained:because anger motivated a man to action in righting wrongs to himself and others, because its opposite appeared to be passivity in the face of challenges from other males, because - to put it simply - it raised the body's temperature, anger appeared to be a characteristic of masculinity, a sign that a man was indeed a manly man. \n\nMaimonides considered being given to uncontrollable passions as a kind of illness. Like Galen, Maimonides suggested seeking out a philosopher for curing this illness just as one seeks out a physician for curing bodily illnesses. Roger Bacon elaborates Seneca's advices. Many medieval writers discuss at length the evils of anger and the virtues of temperance. In a discussion of confession, John Mirk, an English 14th-century Augustinian writer, tells priests how to advise the penitent by considering the spiritual and social consequences of anger:\n\nIn \"The Canon of Medicine\", Ibn Sina (Avicenna) modified the theory of temperaments and argued that anger heralded the transition of melancholia to mania, and explained that humidity inside the head can contribute to such mood disorders.\n\nOn the other hand, Ahmed ibn Sahl al-Balkhi classified anger (along with aggression) as a type of neurosis, while al-Ghazali argued that anger takes form in rage, indignation and revenge, and that \"the powers of the soul become balanced if it keeps anger under control.\"\n\nThe modern understanding of anger may not be greatly advanced over that of Aristotle. Immanuel Kant rejects revenge as vicious. Regarding the latter, David Hume argues that because \"anger and hatred are passions inherent in our very frame and constitution, the lack of them is sometimes evidence of weakness and imbecility.\" Two main differences between the modern understanding and ancient understanding of anger can be detected, Kemp and Strongman state: one is that early philosophers were not concerned with possible harmful effects of the suppression of anger; the other is that, recently, studies of anger take the issue of gender differences into account. The latter does not seem to have been of much concern to earlier philosophers.\n\nThe American psychologist Albert Ellis has suggested that anger, rage, and fury partly have roots in the philosophical meanings and assumptions through which human beings interpret transgression. According to Ellis, these emotions are often associated and related to the leaning humans have to absolutistically depreciating and damning other peoples' humanity when their personal rules and domain are transgressed.\n\nIn Judaism, anger is a negative trait. In the Book of Genesis, Jacob condemned the anger that had arisen in his sons Simon and Levi: \"Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel.\"\n\nRestraining oneself from anger is seen as noble and desirable, as Ethics of the Fathers states:\n\n\"Ben Zoma said:\nWho is strong? He who subdues his evil inclination, as it is stated,\n'He who is slow to anger is better than a strong man, and he who masters his passions is better than one who conquers a city' (Proverbs 16:32).\"\n\nMaimonides rules that one who becomes angry is as though that person had worshipped idols. Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi explains that the parallel between anger and idol worship is that by becoming angry, one shows a disregard of Divine Providence – whatever had caused the anger was ultimately ordained from Above – and that through coming to anger one thereby denies the hand of God in one's life.\n\nIn its section dealing with ethical traits a person should adopt, the \"Kitzur Shulchan Aruch\" states: \"Anger is also a very evil trait and it should be avoided at all costs. You should train yourself not to become angry even if you have a good reason to be angry.\"\n\nIn modern writings, Rabbi Harold Kushner finds no grounds for anger toward God because \"our misfortunes are none of His doing.\" In contrast to Kushner's reading of the Bible, David Blumenthal finds an \"abusing God\" whose \"sometimes evil\" actions evoke vigorous protest, but without severing the protester's relationship with God.\n\nBoth Catholic and Protestant writers have addressed anger.\n\nWrath is one of the Seven Deadly Sins in Catholicism; and yet the Catechism of the Catholic Church states (canons 1772 and 1773) that anger is among the passions, and that \"in the passions, as movements of the sensitive appetite, there is neither good nor evil.\" The neutral act of anger becomes the sin of wrath when it's directed against an innocent person, when it's unduly unbending or long-lasting, or when it desires excessive punishment. \"If anger reaches the point of a deliberate desire to kill or seriously wound a neighbor, it is gravely against charity; it is a mortal sin.\" (CCC 2302) Hatred is the sin of desiring that someone else may suffer misfortune or evil, and is a mortal sin when one desires grave harm. (CCC 2302-03)\n\nMedieval Christianity vigorously denounced wrath as one of the seven cardinal, or deadly sins, but some Christian writers at times regarded the anger caused by injustice as having some value. Saint Basil viewed anger as a \"reprehensible temporary madness.\" Joseph F. Delany in the Catholic Encyclopedia (1914) defines anger as \"the desire of vengeance\" and states that a reasonable vengeance and passion is ethical and praiseworthy. Vengeance is sinful when it exceeds its limits in which case it becomes opposed to justice and charity. For example, \"vengeance upon one who has not deserved it, or to a greater extent than it has been deserved, or in conflict with the dispositions of law, or from an improper motive\" are all sinful. An unduly vehement vengeance is considered a venial sin unless it seriously goes counter to the love of God or of one's neighbor.\n\nA more positive view of anger is espoused by Roman Catholic pastoral theologian Henri J. M. Nouwen. Father Nouwen points to the spiritual benefits in anger toward God as found in both the Old Testament and New Testament of the Bible. In the Bible, says Father Nouwen, \"it is clear that only by expressing our anger and hatred directly to God will we come to know the fullness of both his love and our freedom.\"\n\nGeorges Bernanos illustrates Nouwen's position in his novel \"The Diary of a Country Priest\". The countess gave birth to the son she had long wanted, but the child died. She was fiercely angry. When the priest called, the countess vented her anger toward her daughter and husband, then at the priest who responded gently, \"open your heart to [God].\" The countess rejoined, \"I've ceased to bother about God. When you've forced me to admit that I hate Him, will you be any better off?\" The priest continued, \"you no longer hate Him. Hate is indifference and contempt. Now at last you're face to face with Him ... Shake your fist at Him, spit in His face, scourge Him.\" The countess did what the priest counseled. By confessing her hate, she was enabled to say, \"all's well.\"\n\nEveryone experiences anger, Andrew D. Lester observes, and furthermore anger can serve as \"a spiritual friend, a spiritual guide, and a spiritual ally.\" Denying and suppressing anger is contrary to St. Paul's admonition in his Epistle to the Ephesians 4:26. When anger toward God is denied and suppressed, it interferes with an individual's relation with God. However, expressing one's anger toward God can deepen the relationship. C. FitzSimons Allison holds that \"we worship God by expressing our honest anger at him.\"\n\nBiblical scholar Leonard Pine concludes from his studies in the Book of Habakkuk that \"far from being a sin, proper remonstration with God is the activity of a healthy faith relationship with Him.\" Other biblical examples of anger toward God include the following:\n\nIn Hinduism, anger is equated with sorrow as a form of unrequited desire. The objects of anger are perceived as a hindrance to the gratification of the desires of the angry person. Alternatively if one thinks one is superior, the result is grief. Anger is considered to be packed with more evil power than desire. In the Bhagavad Gita Krishna regards greed, anger, and lust as signs of ignorance and leads to perpetual bondage. As for the agitations of the bickering mind, they are divided into two divisions. The first is called avirodha-prīti, or unrestricted attachment, and the other is called virodha-yukta-krodha, anger arising from frustration. Adherence to the philosophy of the Māyāvādīs, belief in the fruitive results of the karma-vādīs, and belief in plans based on materialistic desires are called avirodha-prīti. (Reference needed)\n\nJñānīs, karmīs and materialistic planmakers generally attract the attention of conditioned souls, but when the materialists cannot fulfill their plans and when their devices are frustrated, they become angry. Frustration of material desires produces anger.\n\nAnger is defined in Buddhism as: \"being unable to bear the object, or the intention to cause harm to the object.\" Anger is seen as aversion with a stronger exaggeration, and is listed as one of the five hindrances. Buddhist monks, such as Dalai Lama, the spiritual leader of Tibetans in exile, sometimes get angry. However, there is a difference; most often a spiritual person is aware of the emotion and the way it can be handled. Thus, in response to the question: \"Is any anger acceptable in Buddhism?' the Dalai Lama answered: Buddhism in general teaches that anger is a destructive emotion and although anger might have some positive effects in terms of survival or moral outrage, I do not accept that anger of any kind as \"(sic)\" a virtuous emotion nor aggression as constructive behavior. The Gautama Buddha \"(sic)\" has taught that there are three basic kleshas at the root of samsara (bondage, illusion) and the vicious cycle of rebirth. These are greed, hatred, and delusion—also translatable as attachment, anger, and ignorance. They bring us confusion and misery rather than peace, happiness, and fulfillment. It is in our own self-interest to purify and transform them. \nBuddhist scholar and author Geshe Kelsang Gyatso has also explained Buddha's teaching on the spiritual imperative to identify anger and overcome it by transforming difficulties:\n\nWhen things go wrong in our life and we encounter difficult situations, we tend to regard the situation itself as our problem, but in reality whatever problems we experience come from the side of the mind. If we responded to difficult situations with a positive or peaceful mind they would not be problems for us. Eventually, we might even regard them as challenges or opportunities for growth and development. Problems arise only if we respond to difficulties with a negative state of mind. Therefore if we want to be free from problems, we must transform our mind.\nThe Buddha himself on anger:\n\nAn angry person is ugly & sleeps poorly. Gaining a profit, he turns it into a loss, having done damage with word & deed. A person overwhelmed with anger destroys his wealth. Maddened with anger, he destroys his status. Relatives, friends, & colleagues avoid him. Anger brings loss. Anger inflames the mind. He doesn't realize that his danger is born from within. An angry person doesn't know his own benefit. An angry person doesn't see the Dharma. A man conquered by anger is in a mass of darkness. He takes pleasure in bad deeds as if they were good, but later, when his anger is gone, he suffers as if burned with fire. He is spoiled, blotted out, like fire enveloped in smoke. When anger spreads, when a man becomes angry, he has no shame, no fear of evil, is not respectful in speech. For a person overcome with anger, nothing gives light.\nA verse in the third surah of the Quran instructs people to restrain their anger.\n\nAnger (Arabic:غضب, \"ghadab\") in Islam is considered to be instigated by Satan (\"Shaitan\"). Factors stated to lead to anger include selfishness, arrogance and excessive ambition. Islamic teachings also state that anger hinders the faith (\"iman\") of a person. The Quran attributes anger to prophets and believers as well as Muhammad's enemies. It mentions the anger of Moses (\"Musa\") against his people for worshiping a golden calf and at the moment when Moses strikes an Egyptian for fighting against an Israelite. The anger of Jonah (\"Yunus\") is also mentioned in the Quran, which led to his departure from the people of Nineveh and his eventual realization of his error and his repentance. The removal of anger from the hearts of believers by God (Arabic: \"\") after the fighting against Muhammad's enemies is over. In general, suppression of anger (Arabic: کاظم, \"kazm\") is deemed a praiseworthy quality in the hadis. Ibn Abdil Barr, the Andalusian Maliki jurist explains that controlling anger is the door way for restraining other blameworthy traits ego and envy, since these two are less powerful than anger. The hadis state various ways to diminish, prevent and control anger. One of these methods is to perform a ritual ablution, a different narration states that the angry person should lie down and other narrations instructs the angry person to invoke God and seek refuge from the Devil, by reciting \"I take refuge with Allah/God from the accursed Devil.\"\n\nIt has also been stated by the Imam Ali, the \"Commander of the faithful\" and the son-in-law of prophet Muhammad that \"A moment of patience in a moment of anger saves a thousand moments of regret.\" As well as \"Anger begins with madness, and ends in regret.\"\n\nIn many religions, anger is frequently attributed to God or gods. Primitive people held that gods were subject to anger and revenge in anthropomorphic fashion. The Hebrew Bible says that opposition to God's Will results in God's anger. Reform rabbi Kaufmann Kohler explains:\nGod is not an intellectual abstraction, nor is He conceived as a being indifferent to the doings of man; and His pure and lofty nature resents most energetically anything wrong and impure in the moral world: \"O Lord, my God, mine Holy One ... Thou art of eyes too pure to behold evil, and canst not look on iniquity.\" Christians believe in God's anger at the sight of evil. This anger is not inconsistent with God's love, as demonstrated in the Gospel where the righteous indignation of Christ is shown in the Cleansing of the Temple. Christians believe that those who reject His revealed Word, Jesus, condemn themselves, and are not condemned by the wrath of God.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5113928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5113928", "title": "Anna Livia Löwendahl-Atomic", "text": "Anna Livia Löwendahl-Atomic\n\nAnna Livia Löwendahl-Atomic is an artist.\n\nBorn in Stockholm in Sweden, Löwendahl-Atomic studied in England at Chelsea College of Art and Design in London, graduating in 1995. She is best known for \"A Selection of Interesting Secrets from Various Stages in my Life\", a conceptual artwork in which Löwendahl-Atomic sells her secrets one by one, the buyer having to sign a non-disclosure agreement to the effect that he or she can never reveal the secret to anyone. The work was exhibited at the Uppsala Art Museum in Sweden in 2000. Anna Livia has also exhibited with Decima gallery.\n\nIn 2003 a dispute over an alleged relationship between Löwendahl-Atomic's earlier work and a later work by another conceptual artist, Carey Young, shortlisted for the Beck's Futures prize arose. Young's contribution to the show was entitled Non-Disclosure Agreement. The exhibition sponsor had to sign a non-disclosure agreement promising not to tell about an art work by her which only he has seen. Young denied copying Löwendahl-Atomic's work.\n\nLowendahl-Atomic also uses the name Ana Dinextra for her work as a vocalist and lyricist. In 2007 she founded the Art rock band Where Everything Falls Out” together with the Swedish composer Kenneth Cosimo. They have since started a collaboration with Graham Lewis, bassist and vocalist in the legendary art combo Wire.\n\nIn 2009, Lowendahl-Atomic established The Muesum which she has installed in different locations around the world and is an ongoing project.\n\nShe has never knowingly brought a round when frequenting a public house.\n\n"}
{"id": "1697489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1697489", "title": "Assumption of risk", "text": "Assumption of risk\n\nAssumption of risk is a defense in the law of torts, which bars or reduces a plaintiff's right to recovery against a negligent tortfeasor if the defendant can demonstrate that the plaintiff voluntarily and knowingly assumed the risks at issue inherent to the dangerous activity in which he was participating at the time of his or her injury.\n\nWhat is usually meant by assumption of risk is more precisely termed \"primary\" or \"express\" assumption of risk. It occurs when the plaintiff has either expressly or implicitly relieved the defendant of the duty to mitigate or relieve the risk causing the injury from which the cause of action arises. It operates as a complete bar to liability on the theory that upon assumption of the risk, there is no longer a duty of care running from the defendant to the plaintiff; without a duty owed by the defendant, there can be no negligence on his part. However, primary assumption of risk is not a blanket exemption from liability for the operators of a dangerous activity. The \"specific\" risk causing the injury must have been known to, and appreciated by, the plaintiff in order for primary assumption of risk to apply. Also, assumption of risk does not absolve a defendant of liability for reckless conduct. \n\nThis defense is commonly asserted in cases of injuries occurring during risky recreational activities, such as skiing, paragliding, and scuba diving, but actually extends to all dangerous activities. Thus, for example, it was held that a visitor to the Burning Man festival assumed the risk of getting burned.\n\n\"Secondary\" assumption of risk is a rather different doctrine akin in some respects to comparative negligence. The difference was explained by the Supreme Court of California as follows: \n\n"}
{"id": "3559729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3559729", "title": "Austin Museum of Digital Art", "text": "Austin Museum of Digital Art\n\nThe Austin Museum of Digital Art (AMODA), located in Austin, Texas, is the first museum dedicated exclusively to the display of digital art. AMODA was founded in 1997 by Harold Chaput, Samantha Krukowski and Chris Rankin in response to the abundance of digital art in the local scene and the absence of venues for such art. AMODA has not only presented local artwork, but has brought digital art and digital artists from around the globe to Austin. By putting local and global works and acts next to each other, AMODA has contributed to the already growing digital art and music scene in Austin, while gaining recognition around the world as an important museum that has shaped the definition of digital art.\n\nThe Austin Museum of Digital Art is the brainchild of Harold Chaput, then a Computer Sciences doctoral student at the University of Texas at Austin, and Christopher Rankin, an art history graduate of Trinity University and experienced museum worker. Rankin was dissatisfied with the state of the contemporary art scene in Austin. Chaput was connected to many artists and musicians employed in high tech positions who were looking for a creative outlet. By establishing an organization with the goals of supporting the production and exhibition of new work and encouraging discussion about the role of technology in current contemporary art, Chaput and Rankin hoped that they could encourage a community of artists, musicians, and technologists to create cutting-edge digital-based contemporary art.\n\nThey joined up with Samantha Krukowski, an influential member of UT's communications department. The three of them swiftly settled on a subsection of contemporary art that used computers in some form, and coined the term Digital Art to describe it. They also agreed that the new organization should be a museum rather than a collective or a gallery, placing the emphasis on artistry and aesthetics rather than fashion and popularity. Thus the Austin Museum of Digital Art was founded in November 1997.\n\nShortly after its founding, Rankin left AMODA because his new job working for the Texas Commission on the Arts posed a conflict of interest. Krukowski also left to become a Professor of Communications at UT. Rankin and Krukowski were replaced Kyle Anderson, Jennifer Potter, Joel Stearns and Robert Turknett. Together with Chaput, this board moved AMODA from a museum on paper to an art institution. They created AMODA's programs, including an educational program (2000), the Digital Showcase (2001), an exhibition series (2002), and a performance series (2003).\n\nAMODA defines Digital Art as art that uses digital technology in one of three ways: product, process or subject.\n\nArt that uses digital technology as the product can be considered digital art. This includes categories like \"web art\" or \"demo art.\" This is the most recognized definition of digital art.\n\nArt that uses digital technology in the process of creation can also be considered digital art. The drawings of Harold Cohen's AARON are digital art because a computer program was used to generate the works, even though the final product is ink on paper. Computer graphics on film, digital music, and the Cyberopera are all good examples of digital art as process.\n\nFinally, art that references digital art as its subject can also be considered digital art. A series of oil paintings showing a man connected to an online chat room could be categorized as digital art, even though digital technology was never used in the creation or display of the work.\n\nThe central theme for all three approaches is: art that could not have been created without digital technology. All three address different facets of digital art, from presentation to technique to sociology, all of which are important to the history of art.\n\nAMODA's programming was designed to be accessible without being condescending. It was unique in its ability to draw a younger audience than other museums and galleries could. AMODA's programs were integrated with the community and attracted a new population of art patrons through its non-traditional but high-quality presentation of digital art.\n\nAMODA's most popular and successful programs were its Exhibition Series and Digital Showcase.\n\nThe AMODA Digital Showcase is a monthly evening of digital art and music. Under the strict direction of Todd Simmons, a performance space is filled with digital art installations, and four to six digital music performances are shown throughout the evening.\n\nThe intention of the Digital Showcase is to show digital art \"in situ\". While an exhibition removes art from its natural environment and displays it for isolated examination, the Digital Showcase lets the different art installations and music performances bleed over each other. The result is an immersive art experience where the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. It is also wildly popular. Attendance is consistently in the hundreds, and the performances have been written up internationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "4685264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4685264", "title": "Autonomism", "text": "Autonomism\n\nAutonomism (also authonomous Marxism or autonomist Marxism) is a set of anti-authoritarian left-wing political and social movements and theories. As a theoretical system, it first emerged in Italy in the 1960s from workerist (\"operaismo\") communism. Later, post-Marxist and anarchist tendencies became significant after influence from the Situationists, the failure of Italian far-left movements in the 1970s, and the emergence of a number of important theorists including Antonio Negri, who had contributed to the 1969 founding of \"Potere Operaio\", as well as Mario Tronti, Paolo Virno and Franco \"Bifo\" Berardi.\n\nGeorgy Katsiaficas summarizes the forms of autonomous movements saying that \"In contrast to the centralized decisions and hierarchical authority structures of modern institutions, autonomous social movements involve people directly in decisions affecting their everyday lives. They seek to expand democracy and to help individuals break free of political structures and behavior patterns imposed from the outside.\" As such this has involved a call for the independence of social movements from political parties in a revolutionary perspective which seeks to create a practical political alternative to both authoritarian socialism and contemporary representative democracy.\n\nAutonomism influenced the German and Dutch \"Autonomen\", the worldwide social centre movement, and today is influential in Italy, France, and to a lesser extent the English-speaking countries. Those who describe themselves as autonomists now vary from Marxists to anarchists.\n\nThe term \"autonomia\"/\"Autonome\" is composed out of two Greek words: αὐτο- \"auto-\" \"self\" and νόμος \"nomos\", \"law\", hence when combined understood to mean \"one who gives oneself one's own law\". , in this sense, is not independence. While independence refers to an autarchic kind of life, separated from the community, autonomy refers to life in society but by one's own rule. Though the notion of \"autonomism\" was alien to the ancient Greeks, the concept is indirectly endorsed by Aristotle, who stated that only beasts or gods could be independent and live apart from the \"polis\" (\"community\"), while Kant defined the Enlightenment by autonomy of thought and the famous \"Sapere aude\" (\"dare to know\").\n\nUnlike other forms of Marxism, autonomist Marxism emphasises the ability of the working class to force changes to the organization of the capitalist system independent of the state, trade unions or political parties. Autonomists are less concerned with party political organization than are other Marxists, focusing instead on self-organized action outside of traditional organizational structures. Autonomist Marxism is thus a \"bottom-up\" theory: it draws attention to activities that autonomists see as everyday working-class resistance to capitalism, such as absenteeism, slow working, socialization in the workplace, sabotage, and other subversive activities.\n\nLike other Marxists, autonomists see class struggle as being of central importance. However, autonomists have a broader definition of the working class than do other Marxists: as well as wage-earning workers (both white collar and blue collar), autonomists also include in this category the unwaged (students, the unemployed, homemakers, etc.), who are traditionally deprived of any form of union representation.\n\nEarly theorists (such as Mario Tronti, Antonio Negri, Sergio Bologna, and Paolo Virno) developed notions of \"immaterial\" and \"social labour\" that extended the Marxist concept of labour to all society. They suggested that modern society's wealth was produced by unaccountable collective work, and that only a little of this was redistributed to the workers in the form of wages. Other Italian autonomists—particularly feminists, such as Mariarosa Dalla Costa and Silvia Federici—emphasised the importance of feminism and the value of unpaid female labour to capitalist society.\n\nA scholar of the movement, Michael Ryan, writes that \n\nAutonomist Marxism—referred to in Italy as \"operaismo\", which translates literally as \"workerism\"—first appeared in Italy in the early 1960s. Arguably, the emergence of early autonomism can be traced to the dissatisfaction of automotive workers in Turin with their union, which reached an agreement with FIAT. The disillusionment of these workers with their organised representation, along with the resultant riots (in particular the 1962 riots by FIAT workers in Turin, \"fatti di Piazza Statuto\"), were critical factors in the development of a theory of self-organised labour representation outside the scope of traditional representatives such as trade unions.\n\nIn 1969, the \"operaismo\" approach was active mainly in two different groups: \"Lotta Continua\", led by Adriano Sofri (which had a very significant Roman Catholic cultural matrix), and \"Potere Operaio\", led by Antonio Negri, Franco Piperno, Oreste Scalzone, and Valerio Morucci. Mario Capanna was the charismatic leader of the Milan student movement, which had a more classical Marxist-Leninist approach.\n\nThrough translations made available by Danilo Montaldi and others, the Italian autonomists drew upon previous activist research in the United States by the Johnson–Forest Tendency and in France by the group Socialisme ou Barbarie. The Johnson-Forest Tendency had studied working-class life and struggles within the US auto industry, publishing pamphlets such as \"The American Worker\" (1947), \"Punching Out\" (1952), and \"Union Committeemen and Wildcat Strikes\" (1955). That work was translated into French by Socialisme ou Barbarie and published, serially, in their journal. They too began investigating and writing about what was going on inside workplaces, in their case inside both auto factories and insurance offices.\n\nThe journal \"Quaderni Rossi\" (\"Red Notebooks\"), produced between 1961 and 1965, and its successor \"Classe Operaia\" (\"Working Class\"), produced between 1963 and 1966, were also influential in the development of early autonomism. Raniero Panzieri, Mario Tronti, and Toni Negri were some primary collaborators.\n\nPirate radio stations also were a factor in spreading autonomist ideas. Bologna's Radio Alice was an example of such a station.\n\nThe Italian student movement, including the Indiani Metropolitani (Metropolitan Indians), starting from 1966 with the murder of student Paolo Rossi by neo-fascists at Rome University, engaged in various direct action operations, including riots and occupations, along with more peaceful activities such as self-reduction, in which individuals refused to pay for such services and goods as public transport, electricity, gas, rent, and food. Several clashes occurred between students and the police during the occupations of universities in the winter of 1967–68, during the Fiat occupations, and in March 1968 in Rome during the Battle of Valle Giulia.\n\nIndiani Metropolitani were a small faction active in the Italian far-left protest movement during 1976 and 1977, in the so-called \"Years of Lead\". The Indiani Metropolitani were the so-called 'creative' wing of the movement. Its adherents wore face-paint like the war-paint of Native Americans and dressed like hippies. The emphasis was on \"stare insieme\" (being together), spontaneity and the arts, especially music. The group was active in Rome, during the occupation of the university La Sapienza in 1977.\n\nOn 11 March 1977, riots took place in Bologna following the killing of student Francesco Lorusso by police.\n\nBeginning in 1979, the state effectively prosecuted the autonomist movement, accusing it of protecting the Red Brigades, which had kidnapped and assassinated Aldo Moro. 12,000 far-left activists were detained; 600 fled the country, including 300 to France and 200 to South America.\n\nTute Bianche was a militant Italian social movement, active from 1994 to 2001. Activists covered their bodies with padding so as to resist the blows of police, to push through police lines, and to march together in large blocks for mutual protection during demonstrations. The tute bianche movement reached its apex during the anti-G8 protests in Genoa, in July 2001, with a turn-out of an estimated 10,000 protesters in a single \"padded block\", ironically after a collective decision to go without the white overalls. Shortly after Genoa the Ya Basta Association disbanded, with certain segments reforming into the \"Disobbedienti\" which literally means \"Disobedients\". This philosophy includes the occupation and creation of squatted self-managed social centers, anti-sexist activism, support for immigrant's rights and refugees seeking political asylum, as well as the process of walking together in large formations during demonstrations held in the streets, by force if necessary in case of clashes with police.\n\nCentral to the tute bianche movement was the Italian Ya Basta Association, a network of groups throughout Italy that was inspired by the Zapatista Army of National Liberation uprising in Chiapas in 1994. Ya Basta primarily originated in the \"autonomist\" social centers of Milan, particularly Centro Sociale Leoncavallo. These social centers grew out of the Italian Autonomia movement of the 1970 and 80s. The tute bianches have had international variations of one sort or another. For instance, in Britain a group calling itself WOMBLES adopted the tactics, even though the political orientation of WOMBLES differed from the Italian movement. In Spain, \"Mono Blanco\" was the preferred identifier. The first North American variant of the tute bianche, the NYC Ya Basta Collective (based in NYC) wore yellow overalls, rather than white.\n\nIn France, the Marxist group Socialisme ou Barbarie, led by philosopher Cornelius Castoriadis, could be said to be one of the first autonomist groups. Socialisme ou Barbarie drew upon the activist research of the American Johnson-Forest Tendency inside US auto plants and carried out their own investigations into rank-and-file workers struggles, struggles that were autonomous of union or party leadership.\n\nAlso parallel to the work of the Johnson-Forest Tendency, Socialisme ou Barbarie harshly criticised the Communist regime in the USSR, which it considered a form of \"bureaucratic capitalism\" and not at all the socialism it claimed to be. Philosopher Jean-François Lyotard was also part of this movement.\n\nHowever, the Italian influence of the \"operaismo\" movement was more directly felt in the creation of the review \"Matériaux pour l'intervention\" (1972–73) by Yann Moulier-Boutang, a French economist close to Toni Negri. This led in turn to the creation of the Camarades group (1974–78). Along with others, Moulier-Boutang joined the Centre International pour des Nouveaux Espaces de Liberté (CINEL), founded three years earlier by Félix Guattari, and assisted Italian activists accused of terrorism, of whom at least 300 fled to France.\n\nThe French autonome mouvement organised itself in the AGPA (Assemblée Parisienne des Groupes Autonomes, \"Parisian Assembly of Autonome Groups\"; 1977–78). Many tendencies were present in it, including the Camarades group led by Moulier-Boutang, members of the Organisation communiste libertaire, some people referring themselves to the \"Desiring Autonomy\" of Bob Nadoulek, but also squatters and street-wise people (including the groupe Marge). French autonomes supported captured Red Army Faction former members. Jean-Paul Sartre also intervened on the conditions for the detention of RAF detainees.\n\nThe militant group Action directe appeared in 1979 and carried out several violent direct actions. Action Directe claimed responsibility for the murders of Renault's CEO Georges Besse and General Audran. George Besse had been CEO of nuclear company Eurodif. Action Directe was dissolved in 1987.\n\nIn the 1980s, the autonomist movement underwent a deep crisis in Italy because of effective prosecution by the State, and was stronger in Germany than in France. It remained present in Parisian squats and in some riots (for example in 1980 near the Jussieu Campus in Paris, or in 1982 in the Ardennes department during anti-nuclear demonstrations). From 1986 to 1994 the French group occupied several buildings of the French national social housing authority to denounce the cruel lack of lodging for workers, they were several hundred and took their decisions in democratic assembly, with support from all autonomous groups of Paris, many of them were worked on the anti prison . In the 1980s, the French autonomists published the periodicals \"CAT Pages\" (1981–82), \"Rebelles\" (1981–93), \"Tout !\" (1982–85), \"Molotov et Confetti\" (1984), \"Les Fossoyeurs du Vieux Monde\", \"La Chôme\" (1984–85), and \"Contre\" (1987–89).\n\nIn the 1990s, the French autonomist movement was present in struggles led by unemployed people, with Travailleurs, Chômeurs, et Précaires en colère (TCP, \"Angry Workers, Unemployed, and Marginalised people\") and l'Assemblée générale des chômeurs de Jussieu (\"General Assembly of Jussieu's unemployed people\"). It was also involved in the alter-globalisation movement and above all in the solidarity with illegal foreigners (Collective Des Papiers pour tous (\"Permits for all\", 1996) and Collectif Anti-Expulsion (1998–2005)). Several autonomist journals date from this time: \"Quilombo\" (1988–93), \"Apache\" (1990–98), \"Tic-Tac\" (1995–97), \"Karoshi\" (1998–99), and \"Tiqqun\" (1999–2001).\n\nFrom 19 to 28 July 2002, a No borders camp was made in Strasbourg to protest against anti-immigration policies, in particular inside the Schengen European space.\n\nIn 2003, autonomists came into conflict with the French Socialist Party (PS) during a demonstration that took place in the frame of the European Social Forum in Saint-Denis (Paris). At the end of December, hundreds of unemployed people helped themselves in the \"Bon Marché\" supermarket to be able to celebrate Christmas (an action called \"autoréduction\" (of prices) in French). French riot police (CRS) physically opposed the unemployed people inside the shop. Autonomes rioted during the spring 2006 protests against the CPE, and again after the 2007 presidential election when Nicolas Sarkozy was elected.\n\nOn 11 November 2008, the French police arrested ten people, including five living in a farmhouse on a hill overlooking Tarnac, and accused them of associating with a \"terrorist enterprise\" by sabotaging TGV's overhead lines. Nine out of ten were let go and only Julien Coupat, the alleged leader, remained in custody for about a year, charged with \"directing a terrorist group\" by the Paris Prosecutor's office.\n\nIn Germany, \"Autonome\" was used during the late 1970s to depict the most radical part of the political left. These individuals participated in practically all actions of the social movements at the time, especially in demonstrations against nuclear energy plants (Brokdorf 1981, Wackersdorf 1986) and in actions against the construction of airport runways (Frankfurt 1976–86). The defense of squats against the police such as in Hamburg's \"Hafenstraße\" was also a major \"task\" for the \"autonome\" movement. The Dutch anarchist \"Autonomen\" movement from the 1960s also concentrated on squatting.\n\nTactics of the \"Autonome\" were usually militant, including the construction of barricades or throwing stones or molotov cocktails at the police. During their most powerful times in the early 1980s, on at least one occasion the police had to take flight.\n\nBecause of their outfit (heavy black clothing, ski masks, helmets), the \"Autonome\" were dubbed \"der schwarze Block\" by the German media, and in these tactics were similar to modern black blocs. In 1989, laws regarding demonstrations in Germany were changed, prohibiting the use of so-called \"passive weaponry\" such as helmets or padding and covering your face.\n\nToday, the \"autonome\" scene in Germany is greatly reduced and concentrates mainly on anti-fascist actions, ecology, solidarity with refugees, and feminism. There are larger and more militant groups still in operation, such as in Switzerland or Italy.\n\nIn Greece, the \"anarcho-autonomoi\" (Greek αναρχο-αυτόνομοι \"anarchist-autonomists\") emerged as an important trend in the youth and student movement, first during the 1973 Athens Polytechnic uprising against the military dictatorship that ruled the country at the time. After the collapse of the dictatorship in 1974, the \"anarcho-autonomoi\" became considerably influential, firstly as a social trend within the youth and then as a (very loose and diverse) political trend. The definition \"anarcho-autonomoi\", itself, is much debated. One reason for this is that it was originally coined by opponents. However, it was also quite quickly adopted by many adherents, used as a generic term.\n\nBefore 1973, in Greece, there was very little tradition in anarchism or libertarian socialism in general. Thus, the radical Greek youth in the 1970s, having very little relative background to refer to, resided to an extensive \"syncretism\" of multiple trends originating in the respective movements in other European countries. Anarchist and anarcho-syndicalist trends converged with situationist, workerist, or other autonomist trends and even with radical (non-autonomist) Marxist trends. The \"anarcho-autonomoi\" made a very strong stand\n"}
{"id": "900125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900125", "title": "Begriffsschrift", "text": "Begriffsschrift\n\nBegriffsschrift (German for, roughly, \"concept-script\") is a book on logic by Gottlob Frege, published in 1879, and the formal system set out in that book.\n\n\"Begriffsschrift\" is usually translated as \"concept writing\" or \"concept notation\"; the full title of the book identifies it as \"a formula language, modeled on that of arithmetic, of pure thought.\" Frege's motivation for developing his formal approach to logic resembled Leibniz's motivation for his calculus ratiocinator (despite that, in the foreword Frege clearly denies that he achieved this aim, and also that his main aim would be constructing an ideal language like Leibniz's, which Frege declares to be a quite hard and idealistic, however not impossible, task). Frege went on to employ his logical calculus in his research on the foundations of mathematics, carried out over the next quarter century.\n\nThe calculus contains the first appearance of quantified variables, and is essentially classical bivalent second-order logic with identity. It is bivalent in that sentences or formulas denote either True or False; second order because it includes relation variables in addition to object variables and allows quantification over both. The modifier \"with identity\" specifies that the language includes the identity relation, =.\n\nFrege presents his calculus using idiosyncratic two-dimensional notation: connectives and quantifiers are written using lines connecting formulas, rather than the symbols ¬, ∧, and ∀ in use today. For example, that judgement \"B\" materially implies judgement \"A\", i.e. formula_1 is written as .\n\nIn the first chapter, Frege defines basic ideas and notation, like proposition (\"judgement\"), the universal quantifier (\"the generality\"), the conditional, negation and the \"sign for identity of content\" formula_2 (which he used to indicate both material equivalence and identity proper); in the second chapter he declares nine formalized propositions as axioms.\n\nIn chapter 1, §5, Frege defines the conditional as follows:\n\n\nLet\nsignify that the third of those possibilities does not obtain, but one of the three others does. So if we negate , \nthat means the third possibility is valid, i.e. we negate A and assert B.\"\n\nFrege declared nine of his propositions to be axioms, and justified them by arguing informally that, given their intended meanings, they express self-evident truths. Re-expressed in contemporary notation, these axioms are:\n\n\nThese are propositions 1, 2, 8, 28, 31, 41, 52, 54, and 58 in the \"Begriffschrifft\". (1)–(3) govern material implication, (4)–(6) negation, (7) and (8) identity, and (9) the universal quantifier. (7) expresses Leibniz's indiscernibility of identicals, and (8) asserts that identity is a reflexive relation.\n\nAll other propositions are deduced from (1)–(9) by invoking any of the following inference rules:\n\nThe main results of the third chapter, titled \"Parts from a general series theory,\" concern what is now called the ancestral of a relation \"R\". \"\"a\" is an \"R\"-ancestor of \"b\" is written \"aR\"*\"b\".\n\nFrege applied the results from the \"Begriffsschrifft\", including those on the ancestral of a relation, in his later work \"The Foundations of Arithmetic\". Thus, if we take \"xRy\" to be the relation \"y\" = \"x\" + 1, then 0\"R\"*\"y\" is the predicate \"y\" is a natural number.\" (133) says that if \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" are natural numbers, then one of the following must hold: \"x\" < \"y\", \"x\" = \"y\", or \"y\" < \"x\". This is the so-called \"law of trichotomy\".\n\nFor a careful recent study of how the \"Begriffsschrift\" was reviewed in the German mathematical literature, see Vilko (1998). Some reviewers, especially Ernst Schröder, were on the whole favorable. All work in formal logic subsequent to the \"Begriffsschrift\" is indebted to it, because its second-order logic was the first formal logic capable of representing a fair bit of mathematics and natural language.\n\nSome vestige of Frege's notation survives in the \"turnstile\" symbol formula_17 derived from his \"Urteilsstrich\" (\"judging/inferring stroke\") │ and \"Inhaltsstrich\" (i.e. \"content stroke\") ──. Frege used these symbols in the \"Begriffsschrift\" in the unified form ├─ for declaring that a proposition is true. In his later \"Grundgesetze\" he revises slightly his interpretation of the ├─ symbol.\n\nIn \"Begriffsschrift\" the \"Definitionsdoppelstrich\" (i.e. \"definition double stroke\") │├─ indicates that a proposition is a definition. Furthermore, the negation sign formula_18 can be read as a combination of the horizontal \"Inhaltsstrich\" with a vertical negation stroke. This negation symbol was reintroduced by Arend Heyting in 1930 to distinguish intuitionistic from classical negation. It also appears in Gerhard Gentzen's doctoral dissertation.\n\nIn the \"Tractatus Logico Philosophicus\", Ludwig Wittgenstein pays homage to Frege by employing the term \"Begriffsschrift\" as a synonym for logical formalism.\n\nFrege's 1892 essay, \"On Sense and Reference,\" recants some of the conclusions of the \"Begriffsschrifft\" about identity (denoted in mathematics by the \"=\" sign). In particular, he rejects the \"Begriffsschrift\" view that the identity predicate expresses a relationship between names, in favor of the conclusion that it expresses a relationship between the objects that are denoted by those names.\n\n\"If the task of philosophy is to break the domination of words over the human mind [...], then my concept notation, being developed for these purposes, can be a useful instrument for philosophers [...] I believe the cause of logic has been advanced already by the invention of this concept notation.\" (Preface to the \"Begriffsschrift\")\n\n\nTranslations:\n\nSecondary literature:\n\n"}
{"id": "7515627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515627", "title": "Blunt instrument", "text": "Blunt instrument\n\nA blunt instrument is any solid object used as a weapon, which damages its target by applying direct mechanical force, and has no penetrating point or edge, or is wielded so that the point or edge is not the part of the weapon that inflicts the injury. Blunt instruments may be contrasted with edged weapons, which inflict injury by cutting or stabbing, or projectile weapons, where the projectiles, such as bullets or arrows, are accelerated to a damaging speed.\n\nBlunt instruments typically inflict blunt force trauma, causing bruising, fractures and other internal bleeding. Depending on the parts of the body attacked, organs may be ruptured or otherwise damaged. Attacks with a blunt instrument may be fatal.\n\nSome sorts of blunt instruments are very readily available, and often figure in crime cases. Examples of blunt instruments include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39060287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39060287", "title": "Cognitive emotional behavioral therapy", "text": "Cognitive emotional behavioral therapy\n\nCognitive emotional behavioral therapy (CEBT) is an extended version of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) aimed at helping individuals to evaluate the basis of their emotional distress and thus reduce the need for associated dysfunctional coping behaviors (e.g., eating behaviors including binging, purging, restriction of food intake, and substance misuse). This psychotherapeutic intervention draws on a range of models and techniques including dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), mindfulness meditation, acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), and experiential exercises.\n\nCEBT has been used primarily with individuals suffering from eating disorders, as it offers an alternative when standard CBT is unsuccessful in relieving symptoms. Research indicates that CEBT may help reduce emotional eating, depression, and anxiety and also improve self-esteem.\nCEBT was developed in 2006 by British psychologist Emma Gray (née Corstorphine). Its key components include psychological education; techniques to enhance awareness of emotions and motivation to change; and strategies to restructure beliefs about the experience and expression of emotions.\nAlthough (CEBT) was initially developed to help individuals suffering from eating disorders, its effectiveness in helping people to better understand and manage their emotions has meant that it is increasingly being used by psychologists as a 'pretreatment' to prepare patients for the process of therapy for a range of problems including anxiety, depression, obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), and post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which can often be emotionally challenging.\n\n"}
{"id": "6956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6956", "title": "Conservation law", "text": "Conservation law\n\nIn physics, a conservation law states that a particular measurable property of an isolated physical system does not change as the system evolves over time. Exact conservation laws include conservation of energy, conservation of linear momentum, conservation of angular momentum, and conservation of electric charge. There are also many approximate conservation laws, which apply to such quantities as mass, parity, lepton number, baryon number, strangeness, hypercharge, etc. These quantities are conserved in certain classes of physics processes, but not in all.\n\nA local conservation law is usually expressed mathematically as a continuity equation, a partial differential equation which gives a relation between the amount of the quantity and the \"transport\" of that quantity. It states that the amount of the conserved quantity at a point or within a volume can only change by the amount of the quantity which flows in or out of the volume.\n\nFrom Noether's theorem, each conservation law is associated with a symmetry in the underlying physics.\n\nConservation laws are fundamental to our understanding of the physical world, in that they describe which processes can or cannot occur in nature. For example, the conservation law of energy states that the total quantity of energy in an isolated system does not change, though it may change form. In general, the total quantity of the property governed by that law remains unchanged during physical processes. With respect to classical physics, conservation laws include conservation of energy, mass (or matter), linear momentum, angular momentum, and electric charge. With respect to particle physics, particles cannot be created or destroyed except in pairs, where one is ordinary and the other is an antiparticle. With respect to symmetries and invariance principles, three special conservation laws have been described, associated with inversion or reversal of space, time, and charge.\n\nConservation laws are considered to be fundamental laws of nature, with broad application in physics, as well as in other fields such as chemistry, biology, geology, and engineering.\n\nMost conservation laws are exact, or absolute, in the sense that they apply to all possible processes. Some conservation laws are partial, in that they hold for some processes but not for others.\n\nOne particularly important result concerning conservation laws is Noether's theorem, which states that there is a one-to-one correspondence between each one of them and a differentiable symmetry of nature. For example, the conservation of energy follows from the time-invariance of physical systems, and the conservation of angular momentum arises from the fact that physical systems behave the same regardless of how they are oriented in space.\n\nA partial listing of physical conservation equations due to symmetry that are said to be exact laws, or more precisely \"have never been proven to be violated:\"\n\nThere are also approximate conservation laws. These are approximately true in particular situations, such as low speeds, short time scales, or certain interactions.\n\n\nThe total amount of some conserved quantity in the universe could remain unchanged if an equal amount were to appear at one point \"A\" and simultaneously disappear from another separate point \"B\". For example, an amount of energy could appear on Earth without changing the total amount in the Universe if the same amount of energy were to disappear from a remote region of the Universe. This weak form of \"global\" conservation is really not a conservation law because it is not Lorentz invariant, so phenomena like the above do not occur in nature. Due to Special Relativity, if the appearance of the energy at \"A\" and disappearance of the energy at \"B\" are simultaneous in one inertial reference frame, they will not be simultaneous in other inertial reference frames moving with respect to the first. In a moving frame one will occur before the other; either the energy at \"A\" will appear \"before\" or \"after\" the energy at \"B\" disappears. In both cases, during the interval energy will not be conserved. \n\nA stronger form of conservation law requires that, for the amount of a conserved quantity at a point to change, there must be a flow, or \"flux\" of the quantity into or out of the point. For example, the amount of electric charge in a volume is never found to change without an electric current into or out of the volume that carries the difference in charge. Since it only involves continuous \"local\" changes, this stronger type of conservation law is Lorentz invariant; a quantity conserved in one reference frame is conserved in all moving reference frames. This is called a \"local conservation\" law. Local conservation also implies global conservation; that the total amount of the conserved quantity in the Universe remains constant. All of the conservation laws listed above are local conservation laws. A local conservation law is expressed mathematically by a \"continuity equation\", which states that the change in the quantity in a volume is equal to the total net \"flux\" of the quantity through the surface of the volume. The following sections discuss continuity equations in general.\n\nIn continuum mechanics, the most general form of an exact conservation law is given by a continuity equation. For example, conservation of electric charge \"q\" is\n\nwhere ∇⋅ is the divergence operator, \"ρ\" is the density of \"q\" (amount per unit volume), j is the flux of \"q\" (amount crossing a unit area in unit time), and \"t\" is time.\n\nIf we assume that the motion u of the charge is a continuous function of position and time, then\n\nIn one space dimension this can be put into the form of a homogeneous first-order quasilinear hyperbolic equation:\n\nwhere the dependent variable \"y\" is called the \"density\" of a \"conserved quantity\", and \"A(y)\" is called the \"current jacobian\", and the subscript notation for partial derivatives has been employed. The more general inhomogeneous case:\n\nis not a conservation equation but the general kind of balance equation describing a dissipative system. The dependent variable \"y\" is called a \"nonconserved quantity\", and the inhomogeneous term \"s(y,x,t)\" is the-\"source\", or dissipation. For example, balance equations of this kind are the momentum and energy Navier-Stokes equations, or the entropy balance for a general isolated system.\n\nIn the one-dimensional space a conservation equation is a first-order quasilinear hyperbolic equation that can be put into the \"advection\" form:\n\nwhere the dependent variable \"y(x,t)\" is called the density of the \"conserved\" (scalar) quantity (c.q.(d.) = conserved quantity (density)), and \"a(y)\" is called the current coefficient, usually corresponding to the partial derivative in the conserved quantity of a current density (c.d.) of the conserved quantity \"j(y)\":\n\nIn this case since the chain rule applies:\n\nthe conservation equation can be put into the current density form:\n\nIn a space with more than one dimension the former definition can be extended to an equation that can be put into the form:\n\nwhere the \"conserved quantity\" is \"y(r,t)\", \"formula_11\" denotes the scalar product, \"∇\" is the nabla operator, here indicating a gradient, and \"a(y)\" is a vector of current coefficients, analogously corresponding to the divergence of a vector c.d. associated to the c.q. j(y):\n\nThis is the case for the continuity equation:\n\nHere the conserved quantity is the mass, with density \"ρ\"(r,t) and current density \"ρ\"u, identical to the momentum density, while u(r,t) is the flow velocity.\n\nIn the general case a conservation equation can be also a system of this kind of equations (a vector equation) in the form:\n\nwhere y is called the \"conserved\" (vector) quantity, ∇ y is its gradient, 0 is the zero vector, and A(y) is called the Jacobian of the current density. In fact as in the former scalar case, also in the vector case A(y) usually corresponding to the Jacobian of a current density matrix J(y):\n\nand the conservation equation can be put into the form:\n\nFor example, this the case for Euler equations (fluid dynamics). In the simple incompressible case they are:\n\nwhere:\n\nIt can be shown that the conserved (vector) quantity and the c.d. matrix for these equations are respectively:\n\nwhere \"formula_19\" denotes the outer product.\n\nConservation equations can be also expressed in integral form: the advantage of the latter is substantially that it requires less smoothness of the solution, which paves the way to weak form, extending the class of admissible solutions to include discontinuous solutions. By integrating in any space-time domain the current density form in 1-D space:\n\nand by using Green's theorem, the integral form is:\n\nIn a similar fashion, for the scalar multidimensional space, the integral form is:\n\nwhere the line integration is performed along the boundary of the domain, in an anticlock-wise manner.\n\nMoreover, by defining a test function \"φ\"(r,\"t\") continuously differentiable both in time and space with compact support, the weak form can be obtained pivoting on the initial condition. In 1-D space it is:\n\nNote that in the weak form all the partial derivatives of the density and current density have been passed on to the test function, which with the former hypothesis is sufficiently smooth to admit these derivatives.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19479876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19479876", "title": "Conventional electrical unit", "text": "Conventional electrical unit\n\nA conventional electrical unit (or conventional unit where there is no risk of ambiguity) is a unit of measurement in the field of electricity which is based on the so-called \"conventional values\" of the Josephson constant and the von Klitzing constant agreed by the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM) in 1988. These units are very similar in scale to their corresponding SI units, but are not identical because of their different definition. They are distinguished from the corresponding SI units by setting the symbol in italic typeface and adding a subscript \"90\" – e.g., the conventional volt has the symbol \"V\" – as they came into international use on 1 January 1990.\n\nThis system was developed to increase the precision of measurements: The Josephson and von Klitzing constants can be realized with great precision, repeatability and ease. The conventional electrical units have achieved acceptance as an international standard and are commonly used outside of the physics community in both engineering and industry.\n\nThe conventional electrical units are \"quasi-natural\" in the sense that they are completely and exactly defined in terms of fundamental physical constants. They are the first set of measurement units to be defined in this way, and as such, represent a significant step towards using \"natural\" fundamental physics for practical measurement purposes. However, the conventional electrical units are unlike other systems of natural units in that some physical constants are not set to unity but rather set to fixed numerical values that are very close (but not precisely the same) to those in the common SI system of units.\n\nFour significant steps were taken in the last half century to increase the precision and utility of measurement units. In 1967 the Thirteenth General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM) defined the second of atomic time in the International System of Units as the duration of periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the cesium-133 atom. In 1983, the seventeenth CGPM redefined the metre in terms of the second and the speed of light, thus fixing the speed of light at exactly . And in 1990, the eighteenth CGPM adopted conventional values for the Josephson constant and the von Klitzing constant, fixing the conventional Josephson constant at exactly , and the conventional von Klitzing constant at exactly (again, these volts and ohms are not precisely the same as the SI definitions but very nearly equivalent).\n\nConventional electrical units are based on defined values of the Josephson constant and the von Klitzing constant, which allow practical measurements of electromotive force and electrical resistance respectively. \n\n\nConventional electrical units can be thought of as a scaled version of a system of natural units defined as\n\nhaving consequence:\n\nThis is a more general (or less specific) version of either the particle physics \"natural units\" or the quantum chromodynamical system of units but that no unit mass is fixed. Like n.u. or QCD units, with conventional electrical units any observed variation over space or time in the value of the fine-structure constant, α, is attributed to variation in the Coulomb constant or vacuum permittivity or, since the speed of light, \"c\", is fixed, as a variation in the vacuum permeability.\n\nThe following table provides a comparison of conventional electrical units with other natural unit systems:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50982389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50982389", "title": "Davis et al. v. The St. Louis Housing Authority", "text": "Davis et al. v. The St. Louis Housing Authority\n\nDavis et al. v. The St. Louis Housing Authority is a landmark class-action lawsuit filed in 1952 in Saint Louis, Missouri to challenge racial discrimination in public housing. The decision enjoined the Saint Louis Housing Authority from refusing to rent to qualified African Americans.\n"}
{"id": "28413790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28413790", "title": "De civilitate morum puerilium", "text": "De civilitate morum puerilium\n\nDe civilitate morum puerilium is a handbook written by Erasmus of Rotterdam, and is considered to be the first treatise in Western Europe on the moral and practical education of children. First published in 1530 it was addressed to the eleven-year-old Henry of Burgundy, son of Adolph, Prince of Veere, and gives instructions, in simple Latin, on how a boy should conduct himself in the company of adults. The book achieved immediate success and was translated into many languages. The first English version, by Robert Whittinton (or Whittington) was published in 1532, under the title of \"A Little Book of Good Manners for Children\". Another translation by Thomas Paynell was issued in 1560.\n\nThe book is divided into seventeen sections, each dealing with an aspect of behaviour.\n"}
{"id": "189254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189254", "title": "Desert Island Discs", "text": "Desert Island Discs\n\nDesert Island Discs is a radio programme broadcast on BBC Radio 4. It was first broadcast on the BBC Forces Programme on 29 January 1942.\n\nEach week a guest, called a 'castaway' during the programme, is asked to choose eight recordings (usually, but not always, music), a book and a luxury item that they would take if they were to be cast away on a desert island, whilst discussing their lives and the reasons for their choices. It was devised and originally presented by Roy Plomley. Since 2006, the programme has been presented by Kirsty Young.\n\nMore than 3,000 episodes have been recorded, with some guests having appeared more than once and some episodes featuring more than one guest. An example of a guest who falls into both categories is Bob Monkhouse, who appeared with his co-writer Denis Goodwin on 12 December 1955 and in his own right on 20 December 1998.\n\nGuests are invited to imagine themselves cast away on a desert island, and choose eight recordings, originally gramophone records, to take with them; discussion of their choices permits a review of their life. Excerpts from their choices are played or, in the case of short pieces, the whole work. At the end of the programme they choose the one piece they regard most highly. Guests are also automatically given the \"Complete Works of Shakespeare\" and either the Bible or another appropriate religious or philosophical work. They are then prompted to select a third book to accompany them. Popular choices include Charles Dickens and Jane Austen. Actress Judi Dench, who suffers from macular degeneration, was permitted to take an audiobook in place of a printed manuscript.\n\nGuests also choose one luxury, which must be inanimate and of no use in escaping the island or allowing communication from outside. Roy Plomley enforced these rules strictly. He did, however, grant a special dispensation to Princess Michael of Kent, who chose her pet cat. The rules are, however, less strictly enforced today; for instance, Lawley allowed John Cleese to take Michael Palin with him, on the condition that he was dead and stuffed. Examples of luxuries have included champagne and a piano, the latter of which is one of the most requested luxuries.\n\nAfter Plomley's death in 1985, the programme was presented by Michael Parkinson and from 1988 by Sue Lawley. Lawley stepped down in August 2006 after 18 years, her final castaway being actress Joan Plowright. She was replaced by Kirsty Young, who interviewed illustrator Quentin Blake for her first show, broadcast on 1 October 2006. On 30 August 2018, it was announced that Young was going on sick leave due to complications of fibromyalgia, and that 6 Music presenter Lauren Laverne would temporarily take over.\n\nThe first castaway was Vic Oliver, and several castaways, including Celia Johnson, Arthur Askey, Trevor Nunn, John Schlesinger, Kenneth Williams, Terry Wogan, Brian Rix, David Attenborough and Adele Leigh have been cast away more than once. The most requested piece of music over the first 60 years was \"Ode to Joy\", the last movement of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. One of the most remarked broadcasts was Elisabeth Schwarzkopf's 1958 selection of seven of her own recordings. This record was subsequently beaten by British pianist Dame Moura Lympany on her second appearance on the programme on 28 July 1979 when all eight of her selections were of her own recordings. In the early 1970s, Roy Plomley attempted to interview Alistair MacLean, but ended up speaking to somebody else with the same name – and the programme was never broadcast. In January 1981, HRH Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon, appeared as a castaway on the show.\n\nPlomley originally wanted the sounds of \"surf breaking on a shore and the cries of sea birds\" to open and close each programme. But Leslie Prowne, the head of popular record programmes at the BBC, was concerned that it lacked definition and insisted that music should also be used. Plomley and the series' producer Frederic Piffard selected \"By the Sleepy Lagoon\", composed by Eric Coates (who appeared on the show in 1951). The tune has been used since the first transmission in 1942. The sound of herring gulls has accompanied the music except for a period of time in 1964 when tropical bird sounds were used.\n\nUntil late September 2009, \"Desert Island Discs\" could not be heard on the BBC's iPlayer service, which allows most programmes to be heard up to a week after transmission. The programme's website stated that this was due to rights issues, as explained in \"The Sunday Times\" in 2006.\n\nIt was announced on 27 September 2009 that an agreement had been reached as a result of which the programme would be available to stream via the iPlayer. The first episode available through the iPlayer was with Barry Manilow. Subsequently, the programme was also made available as a podcast, beginning with the edition broadcast on 29 November 2009, which featured Morrissey. However, due to music clearance issues, the music selections on the podcast versions are reduced to only playing for around 30 seconds or so (and in rare instances are unavailable, as mentioned in an announcement made by Kirsty Young at the appropriate point of the programme).\n\nOn 30 March 2011, the BBC placed more than 500 episodes from the show's archive online to listen to via iPlayer. Other episodes have since been added, both new and old.\n\nIn the early years of the BBC, programmes were broadcast live and were generally not recorded. This, in addition to the BBC's policy of wiping that was applied during the 1950s and 1960s, means very few episodes from the first 20 years of the show are known to exist; the earliest episode still in existence is from 1951 and features actress Margaret Lockwood. Several extracts were preserved for posterity at the request of the guests, such as an extract featuring Alfred Hitchcock where he speaks about his films \"The Pleasure Garden\" (1925) and \"Rebecca\" (1940), gives his view on the changing landscape of the film industry and briefly discusses his then upcoming film \"Psycho\" (1960).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "445724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=445724", "title": "Dialectical behavior therapy", "text": "Dialectical behavior therapy\n\nDialectical behavior therapy (DBT) is an evidence-based psychotherapy designed to help people suffering from borderline personality disorder (BPD). It has also been used to treat mood disorders as well as those who need to change patterns of behavior that are not helpful, such as self-harm, suicidal ideation, and substance abuse. This approach is designed to help people increase their emotional and cognitive regulation by learning about the triggers that lead to reactive states and helping to assess which coping skills to apply in the sequence of events, thoughts, feelings, and behaviors to help avoid undesired reactions.\n\nA modified form of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), DBT was developed in the late 1980s by Marsha M. Linehan, a psychology researcher at the University of Washington, to treat people with borderline personality disorder and chronically suicidal individuals. Research on its effectiveness in treating other conditions has been fruitful; DBT has been used to treat people with depression, drug and alcohol problems, post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), traumatic brain injuries (TBI), binge-eating disorder, and mood disorders. Research indicates DBT might help patients with symptoms and behaviors associated with spectrum mood disorders, including self-injury. Recent work also suggests its effectiveness with sexual abuse survivors and chemical dependency.\n\nDBT combines standard cognitive behavioral techniques for emotion regulation and reality-testing with concepts of distress tolerance, acceptance, and mindful awareness largely derived from Buddhist meditative practice. DBT is based upon the biosocial theory and is the first therapy that has been experimentally demonstrated to be generally effective in treating BPD. The first randomized clinical trial of DBT showed reduced rates of suicidal gestures, psychiatric hospitalizations, and treatment drop-outs when compared to treatment as usual. A meta-analysis found that DBT reached moderate effects in individuals with borderline personality disorder.\n\nLinehan observed \"burn-out\" in therapists after coping with \"non-motivated\" patients who repudiated cooperation in successful treatment. Her first core insight was to recognize that the chronically suicidal patients she studied had been raised in profoundly invalidating environments, and, therefore, required a climate of loving-kindness and somewhat unconditional acceptance (not Carl Rogers' positive humanist approach, but Thích Nhất Hạnh's metaphysically neutral one), in which to develop a successful therapeutic alliance. Her second insight involved the need for a commensurate commitment from patients, who needed to be willing to accept their dire level of emotional dysfunction.\n\nDBT strives to have the patient view the therapist as an ally rather than an adversary in the treatment of psychological issues. Accordingly, the therapist aims to accept and validate the client's feelings at any given time, while, nonetheless, informing the client that some feelings and behaviors are maladaptive, and showing them better alternatives. DBT focuses on the client acquiring new skills and changing their behaviors, with the ultimate goal of achieving a \"life worth living\", as defined by the patient.\n\nIn DBT's biosocial theory of BPD, clients have a biological predisposition for emotional dysregulation, and their social environment validates maladaptive behavior.\n\nLinehan and others combined a commitment to the core conditions of acceptance and change through the principle of dialectics (in which thesis and antithesis are synthesized) and assembled an array of skills for emotional self-regulation drawn from Western psychological traditions, such as cognitive behavioral therapy and an interpersonal variant, \"assertiveness training\", and Eastern meditative traditions, such as Buddhist mindfulness meditation. One of her contributions was to alter the adversarial nature of the therapist-client relationship in favor of an alliance based on intersubjective tough love.\n\nAll DBT can be said to involve 4 components:\n\nNo one component is used by itself; the individual component is considered necessary to keep suicidal urges or uncontrolled emotional issues from disrupting group sessions, while the group sessions teach the skills unique to DBT, and also provide practice with regulating emotions and behavior in a social context. DBT skills training alone is being used to address treatment goals in some clinical settings, and the broader goal of emotion regulation that is seen in DBT has allowed it to be used in new settings, for example, supporting parenting.\n\nMindfulness is one of the core ideas behind all elements of DBT. It is considered a foundation for the other skills taught in DBT, because it helps individuals accept and tolerate the powerful emotions they may feel when challenging their habits or exposing themselves to upsetting situations. The concept of mindfulness and the meditative exercises used to teach it are derived from traditional Buddhist practice, though the version taught in DBT does not involve any religious or metaphysical concepts. Within DBT it is the capacity to pay attention, nonjudgmentally, to the present moment; about living in the moment, experiencing one's emotions and senses fully, yet with perspective. The practice of mindfulness can also be intended to make people more aware of their environments through their 5 senses: touch, smell, sight, taste, and sound. Mindfulness relies heavily on the principle of acceptance, sometimes referred to as \"radical acceptance\". Acceptance skills rely on the patient’s ability to view situations with no judgment, and to accept situations and their accompanying emotions. This causes less distress overall, which can result in reduced discomfort and symptomology.\n\nThe first few sessions of DBT introduce the dialectic of acceptance and change. The patient must first become comfortable with the idea of therapy; once the patient and therapist have established a trusting relationship, DBT techniques can flourish. An essential part of learning acceptance is to first grasp the idea of radical acceptance: radical acceptance embraces the idea that one should face situations, both positive and negative, without judgment. Acceptance also incorporates mindfulness and emotional regulation skills, which depend on the idea of radical acceptance. These skills, specifically, are what set DBT apart from other therapies.\n\nOften, after a patient becomes familiar with the idea of acceptance, they will accompany it with change. DBT has five specific states of change which the therapist will review with the patient: precontemplation, contemplation, preparation, action, and maintenance. Precontemplation is the first stage, in which the patient is completely unaware of their problem. In the second stage, contemplation, the patient realizes the reality of their illness: this is not an action, but a realization. It is not until the third stage, preparation, that the patient is likely to take action, and prepares to move forward. This could be as simple as researching or contacting therapists. Finally, in stage 4, the patient takes action and receives treatment. In the final stage, maintenance, the patient must strengthen their change in order to prevent relapse. After grasping acceptance and change, a patient can fully advance to mindfulness techniques.\n\n\n\n\nHow to do Mindful Meditation. There are many \"scripted\" meditations available on YouTube; for example: The 3 Minute Meditation; or The Body Scan. How to do it (The Body Scan): You listen to the body scan and you allow your mind to focus on each aspect of your physical self, usually starting at your toes and ending at the top of your head. As you listen to the body scan and allow your mind to focus in on the body, you will notice your \"busy mind\" will come into consciousness. You will notice that thoughts and feelings will attempt to distract you from focusing on each part of your body. You will notice that some of the thoughts and feelings may be distressing to you. You may want to stop the meditation because it might be very painful emotionally or physically or because you are having negative or busy thoughts. Sometimes memories may surface and they may also be difficult emotionally to accept. How to do Mindful Meditation involves learning to acknowledge the thoughts, feelings and memories without needing to fight them or chase them away. The paradox: If we try to fight them, they seem to get bigger; but when we move into acceptance, they seem to get smaller. We enter the mindfulness meditation body scan, 3 minute meditation or other meditation sessions with no goals and with a non-striving stance. Again, if we enter with a goal to \"fix my problems by meditating\", that goal and pressure to fix something tends to make the problems bigger. To enter the meditation with a non-goal/non-striving attitude, so having no expectations, paradoxically, usually results in a reduction of stress, pain and other symptoms.\n\n\n\nMany current approaches to mental health treatment focus on changing distressing events and circumstances such as dealing with the death of a loved one, loss of a job, serious illness, terrorist attacks and other traumatic events. They have paid little attention to accepting, finding meaning for, and tolerating distress. This task has generally been tackled by person-centered, psychodynamic, psychoanalytic, gestalt, or narrative therapies, along with religious and spiritual communities and leaders. Dialectical behavior therapy emphasizes learning to bear pain skillfully.\n\nDistress tolerance skills constitute a natural development from DBT mindfulness skills. They have to do with the ability to accept, in a non-evaluative and nonjudgmental fashion, both oneself and the current situation. Since this is a non-judgmental stance, this means that it is not one of approval or resignation. The goal is to become capable of calmly recognizing negative situations and their impact, rather than becoming overwhelmed or hiding from them. This allows individuals to make wise decisions about whether and how to take action, rather than falling into the intense, desperate, and often destructive emotional reactions that are part of borderline personality disorder.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIndividuals with borderline personality disorder and suicidal individuals are frequently emotionally intense and labile. They can be angry, intensely frustrated, depressed, or anxious. This suggests that these clients might benefit from help in learning to regulate their emotions. Dialectical behavior therapy skills for emotion regulation include:\n\n\nEmotional regulation skills are based on the theory that intense emotions are a conditioned response to troublesome experiences, the conditioned stimulus, and therefore, are required to alter the patient’s conditioned response. These skills can be categorized into four modules: understanding and naming emotions, changing unwanted emotions, reducing vulnerability, and managing extreme conditions: \n\n\nInterpersonal response patterns taught in DBT skills training are very similar to those taught in many assertiveness and interpersonal problem-solving classes. They include effective strategies for asking for what one needs, saying no, and coping with interpersonal conflict.\n\nIndividuals with borderline personality disorder frequently possess good interpersonal skills in a general sense. The problems arise in the application of these skills to specific situations. An individual may be able to describe effective behavioral sequences when discussing another person encountering a problematic situation, but may be completely incapable of generating or carrying out a similar behavioral sequence when analyzing their own situation.\n\nThe interpersonal effectiveness module focuses on situations where the objective is to change something (e.g., requesting that someone do something) or to resist changes someone else is trying to make (e.g., saying no). The skills taught are intended to maximize the chances that a person's goals in a specific situation will be met, while at the same time not damaging either the relationship or the person's self-respect.\n\n\n\nThis list does not include the \"problem solving\" module, the purpose of which is to practice being one's own therapist.\n\nSpecially formatted cards for tracking therapy interfering behaviors that distract or hinder a patient's progress. Diary cards can be filled out daily, 2–3 times a day, or once per week.\n\nChain analysis is a form of functional analysis of behavior but with increased focus on sequential events that form the behavior chain. It has strong roots in behavioral psychology in particular applied behavior analysis concept of chaining. A growing body of research supports the use of behavior chain analysis with multiple populations.\n\nThe milieu, or the culture of the group involved, plays a key role in the effectiveness of DBT.\n\nDBT is the therapy that has been studied the most for treatment of borderline personality disorder, and there have been enough studies done to conclude that DBT is helpful in treating borderline personality disorder. A 2009 Canadian study compared the treatment of borderline personality disorder with dialectical behavior therapy against general psychiatric management. A total of 180 adults, 90 in each group, were admitted to the study and treated for an average of 41 weeks. Statistically significant decreases in suicidal events and non-suicidal self-injurious events were seen overall (48% reduction, p=0.03; and 77% reduction, p=0.01; respectively). No statistically-significant difference between groups were seen for these episodes (p=.64). Emergency department visits decreased by 67% (p<0.0001) and emergency department visits for suicidal behavior by 65% (p<0.0001), but there was also no statistically significant difference between groups.\n\nA Duke University study of compared treatment of depression by antidepressant medication to treatment by antidepressants and dialectical behavior therapy. A total of 34 chronically depressed individuals over age 60 were treated for 28 weeks. Six months after treatment, statistically-significant differences were noted in remission rates between groups, with a greater percentage of patients treated with antidepressants and dialectical behavior therapy in remission.\n\nExposure to Complex trauma, or the experience of traumatic events, can lead to the development of Complex Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (CPTSD) in an individual. CPTSD  is a concept which divides the psychological community. The American Psychological Association (APA) does not recognize it in the DSM-5 (Diagnostical and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, the manual used by providers to diagnose, treat and discuss mental illness), though some practitioners argue that CPTSD is separate from Posttraumatic Stress Disorder(PTSD). CPTSD is similar to PTSD in that its symptomatology is pervasive and includes cognitive, emotional, and biological domains, among others. CPTSD differs from PTSD in that it is believed to originate in childhood interpersonal trauma, or chronic childhood stress, and that the most common precedents are sexual traumas. Currently, the prevalence rate for CPTSD is an estimated .5%, while PTSD's is 1.5%. Numerous definitions for CPTSD exist. Different versions are contributed by the World Health Organization (WHO), The International Society for Traumatic Stress Studies (ISTSS), and individual clinicians and researchers. Most definitions revolve around criteria for PTSD with the addition of several other domains. While The APA may not recognize CPTSD, the WHO has recognized this syndrome in its 11th edition of the International Classification of Diseases (ICD-11). The WHO defines CPTSD as a disorder following a single or multiple events which cause the individual to feel stressed or trapped, characterized by low self-esteem, interpersonal deficits, and deficits in affect regulation. These deficits in affect regulation, among other symptoms are a reason why CPTSD is sometimes compared with Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD).  \n\nIn addition to affect dysregulation, case studies reveal that patients with CPTSD can also exhibit Splitting, mood swings, and fears of abandonment. Like patients with Borderline Personality Disorder, patients with CPTSD were traumatized frequently and/or early in their development and never learned proper coping mechanisms. These individuals may use avoidance, substances, dissociation, and other maladaptive behaviors to cope. Thus, treatment for CPTSD involves stabilizing and teaching successful coping behaviors, affect regulation, and creating and maintaining interpersonal connections. In addition to sharing symptom presentations, CPTSD and BPD can share neurophysiological similarities. For example, abnormal volume of the amygdala (emotional memory), hippocampus (memory), anterior cingulate cortex (emotion), and orbital prefrontal cortex (personality). Another shared characteristic between CPTSD and BPD is the possibility for dissociation. Further research is needed to determine the reliability of dissociation as a hallmark of CPTSD, however it is a possible symptom. Because of the two disorders’ shared symptomatology and physiological correlates, psychologists began hypothesizing that a treatment which was effective for one disorder may be effective for the other as well.\n\nDBT’s use of acceptance and goal orientation as an approach to behavior change can help to instill empowerment and engage individuals in the therapeutic process. The focus on the future and change can help to prevent the individual from becoming from overwhelmed by their history of trauma. This is a risk especially with CPTSD, as multiple traumas are common within this diagnosis. Generally, care providers address a client’s suicidality before moving on to other aspects of treatment. Because PTSD can make an individual more likely to experience suicidal ideation, DBT can be an option to stabilize suicidality and aid in other treatment modalities. \n\nSome critics argue that while DBT can be used to treat CPTSD, it is not significantly more effective than standard PTSD treatments. Further, this argument posits that DBT decreases self-injurious behaviors (such as cutting or burning) and increases interpersonal functioning but neglects core CPTSD symptoms such as impulsivity, cognitive schemas (repetitive, negative thoughts), and emotions such as guilt and shame. The ISTSS reports that CPTSD requires treatment which differs from typical PTSD treatment, using a multiphase model of recovery, rather than focusing on traumatic memories. The recommended multiphase model consists of establishing safety, distress tolerance, and social relations. Because DBT has four modules which generally align with these guidelines (Mindfulness, Distress Tolerance, Affect Regulation, Interpersonal Skills) it is a treatment option. Other critiques of DBT discuss the time required for the therapy to be effective. Individuals seeking DBT may not be able to commit to the individual and group sessions required, or their insurance may not cover every session.\n\nApproximately 56% of individuals diagnosed with Borderline Personality Disorder also meet criteria for PTSD. Because of the correlation between Borderline Personality Disorder traits and trauma, some settings began using DBT as a treatment for traumatic symptoms. Some providers opt to combine DBT with other PTSD interventions, such as Prolonged Exposure Therapy (PE) (repeated, detailed description of the trauma in a psychotherapy session) or Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) (psychotherapy which addresses cognitive schemas related to traumatic memories). For example, a regimen which combined PE and DBT would include teaching mindfulness skills and distress tolerance skills, then implementing PE. The individual with the disorder would then be taught acceptance of a trauma's occurrence and how it may continue to affect them throughout their lives.  Participants of clinical trials such as these exhibited a decrease in symptoms, and throughout the 12-week trial, no self-injurious or suicidal behaviors were reported.\n\nAnother argument which supports the use of DBT as a treatment for trauma hinges upon PTSD symptoms such as emotion regulation and distress. Some PTSD treatments such as exposure therapy may not be suitable for individuals whose distress tolerance and/or emotion regulation is low. Biosocial theory posits that emotion dysregulation is caused by an individual’s heightened emotional sensitivity combined with environmental factors (such as invalidation of emotions, continued abuse/trauma), and tendency to ruminate (repeatedly think about a negative event and how the outcome could have been changed). An individual who has these features is likely to use maladaptive coping behaviors. DBT can be appropriate in these cases because it teaches appropriate coping skills and allows the individuals to develop some degree of self-sufficiency. The first three modules of DBT increase distress tolerance and emotion regulation skills in the individual, paving the way for work on symptoms such as intrusions, self-esteem deficiency, and interpersonal relations.\n\nNoteworthy is that DBT has often been modified based on the population being treated. For example, in veteran populations DBT is modified to include exposure exercises and accommodate the presence of traumatic brain injury (TBI), and insurance coverage (ie shortening treatment).  Populations with comorbid BPD may need to spend longer in the “Establishing Safety” phase. In adolescent populations, the skills training aspect of DBT has elicited significant improvement in emotion regulation and ability to express emotion appropriately. In populations with comorbid substance abuse, adaptations may be made on a case-by-case basis. For example, a provider may wish to incorporate elements of Motivational Interviewing (psychotherapy which uses empowerment to inspire behavior change). The degree of substance abuse should also be considered. For some individuals, substance use is the only coping behavior they know, and as such the provider may seek to implement skills training before target substance reduction. Inversely, a client’s substance abuse may be interfering with attendance or other treatment compliance and the provider may choose to address the substance use before implementing DBT for the trauma.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20774723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20774723", "title": "Doctrine of non-derogation from grants", "text": "Doctrine of non-derogation from grants\n\nThe doctrine of non-derogation from grants is a principle of the law of England and Wales. As the House of Lords explained in \"British Leyland Motor Corp. v. Armstrong Patents Co.\", it states that a seller of realty or goods is not permitted to take any action (such as bringing an infringement action) that will lessen the value to the buyer of the thing sold. \n\nUnited States federal law recognises similar doctrines such as the exhaustion doctrine or doctrine of implied license. A similar effect has also been realised in United States patent law under the doctrine of repair and reconstruction.\n\nAn important difference between the doctrine of non-derogation from grants and other doctrines, particularly implied license, that are used to accomplish similar results is that the doctrine of non-derogation from grants is \"inherent\" as a matter of property law and apparently cannot be avoided by a seller's use of language attempting to negative application of the doctrine or by trial counsel's pointing to evidence of intent not to relinquish patent rights or copyright. In contrast, the other doctrines may be vulnerable to contractual disclaimers or evidence of intent not to grant intellectual property rights. The issue is discussed to some extent in the courts' opinions in \"British Leyland\" and \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27955117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27955117", "title": "Engineering optimization", "text": "Engineering optimization\n\nEngineering optimization is the subject which uses optimization techniques to achieve design goals in engineering. It is sometimes referred to as design optimization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52357", "title": "Eroticism", "text": "Eroticism\n\nEroticism (from the Greek ἔρως, \"eros\"—\"desire\") is a quality that causes sexual feelings, as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire, sensuality and romantic love. That quality may be found in any form of artwork, including painting, sculpture, photography, drama, film, music or literature. It may also be found in advertising. The term may also refer to a state of sexual arousal or anticipation of such – an insistent sexual impulse, desire, or pattern of thoughts.\n\nAs French novelist Honoré de Balzac stated, eroticism is dependent not just upon an individual's sexual morality, but also the culture and time in which an individual resides.\n\nBecause the nature of what is erotic is fluid, early definitions of the term attempted to conceive eroticism as some form of sensual or romantic love or as the human sex drive (libido); for example, the \"Encyclopédie\" of 1755 states that the erotic \"is an epithet which is applied to everything with a connection to the love of the sexes; one employs it particularly to characterize...a dissoluteness, an excess\". \n\nBecause eroticism is wholly dependent on the viewer's culture and personal tastes pertaining to what, exactly, defines the erotic, critics have often confused eroticism with pornography, with anti-smut activist Andrea Dworkin saying, \"Erotica is simply high-class pornography; better produced, better conceived, better executed, better packaged, designed for a better class of consumer.\" This confusion, as Lynn Hunt writes, \"demonstrate the difficulty of drawing… a clear generic demarcation between the erotic and the pornographic\": indeed arguably \"the history of the separation of pornography from eroticism… remains to be written\".\n\nWhereas traditionally eroticism has been dealt with in relation to culture and its pornographic outcomes, current evolutionary psychology shows how eroticism has shaped the evolution of human nature.\n\nFor a psychoanalytical definition, as early as Freud psychotherapists have turned to the ancient Greek philosophy's \"overturning of mythology\" as a definition to understanding of the heightened aesthetic. For Plato, Eros takes an almost transcendent manifestation when the subject seeks to go beyond itself and form a communion with the objectival other: \"the true order of going...to the things of love, is to use the beauties of earth as steps...to all fair forms, and from fair forms to fair actions, and from fair actions to fair notions, until from fair notions he arrives at the notion of absolute beauty\".\n\nModern French conceptions of eroticism can be traced to The Enlightenment, when \"in the eighteenth century, dictionaries defined the erotic as that which concerned love...eroticism was the intrusion into the public sphere of something that was at base private\". This theme of intrusion or transgression was taken up in the twentieth century by the French philosopher Georges Bataille, who argued that eroticism performs a function of dissolving boundaries between human subjectivity and humanity, a transgression that dissolves the rational world but is always temporary, as well as that, \"Desire in eroticism is the desire that triumphs over the taboo. It presupposes man in conflict with himself\". For Bataille, as well as many French theorists, \"Eroticism, unlike simple sexual activity, is a psychological quest...eroticism is assenting to life even in death\".\n\nQueer theory and LGBT studies consider the concept from a non-heterosexual perspective, viewing psychoanalytical and modernist views of eroticism as both archaic and heterosexist, written primarily by and for a \"handful of elite, heterosexual, bourgeois men\" who \"mistook their own repressed sexual proclivities\" as the norm.\n\nTheorists like Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, Gayle S. Rubin and Marilyn Frye all write extensively about eroticism from a heterosexual, lesbian and separatist point of view, respectively, seeing Eroticism as both a political force and cultural critique for marginalized groups, or as Mario Vargas Llosa summarized: \"Eroticism has its own moral justification because it says that pleasure is enough for me; it is a statement of the individual's sovereignty\".\n\nAudre Lorde, a Caribbean-American writer and out-spoken feminist talks of the erotic being a type of power being specific to females. \"There are many kinds of power [...] The erotic is a resource within each of us that lies in a deeply female and spiritual plane, firmly rooted in the power of our unexpressed or unrecognized feelings\". In \"The Uses of the Erotic\" within \"Sister Outsider\", she discusses how erotic comes from sharing, but if we suppress the erotic rather than recognize its presence, it takes on a different form. Rather than enjoying and sharing with one another, it is objectifying, which she says translates into abuse as we attempt to hide and suppress our experiences.\n"}
{"id": "43172980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43172980", "title": "Generic matrix ring", "text": "Generic matrix ring\n\nIn algebra, a generic matrix ring is a sort of a universal matrix ring.\n\nWe denote by formula_1 a generic matrix ring of size \"n\" with variables formula_2. It is characterized by the universal property: given a commutative ring \"R\" and \"n\"-by-\"n\" matrices formula_3 over \"R\", any mapping formula_4 extends to the ring homomorphism (called evaluation) formula_5.\n\nExplicitly, given a field \"k\", it is the subalgebra formula_1 of the matrix ring formula_7 generated by \"n\"-by-\"n\" matrices formula_8, where formula_9 are matrix entries and commute by definition. For example, if \"m\" = 1, then formula_10 is a polynomial ring in one variable.\n\nFor example, a central polynomial is an element of the ring formula_1 that will map to a central element under an evaluation. (In fact, it is in the invariant ring formula_12 since it is central and invariant.)\n\nBy definition, formula_1 is a quotient of the free ring formula_14 with formula_15 by the ideal consisting of all \"p\" that vanish identically on any \"n\"-by-\"n\" matrices over \"k\".\n\nThe universal property means that any ring homomorphism from formula_14 to a matrix ring factors through formula_1. This has a following geometric meaning. In algebraic geometry, the polynomial ring formula_18 is the coordinate ring of the affine space formula_19 and to give a point of formula_19 is to give a ring homomorphism (evaluation) formula_21 (either by the Hilbert nullstellensatz or by the scheme theory). The free ring formula_14 plays the role of the coordinate ring of the affine space in the noncommutative algebraic geometry (i.e., we don't demand free variables to commute) and thus a generic matrix ring of size \"n\" is the coordinate ring of a noncommutative affine variety whose points are the Spec's of matrix rings of size \"n\" (see below for a more concrete discussion.)\n\nFor simplicity, assume \"k\" is algebraically closed. Let \"A\" be an algebra over \"k\" and let formula_23 denote the set of all maximal ideals formula_24 in \"A\" such that formula_25. If \"A\" is commutative, then formula_26 is the maximal spectrum of \"A\" and formula_23 is empty for any formula_28.\n\n"}
{"id": "15428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15428", "title": "Idealism", "text": "Idealism\n\nIn philosophy, Idealism is the group of metaphysical philosophies that assert that reality, or reality as humans can know it, is fundamentally mental, mentally constructed, or otherwise immaterial. Epistemologically, Idealism manifests as a skepticism about the possibility of knowing any mind-independent thing. In contrast to Materialism, Idealism asserts the \"primacy\" of consciousness as the origin and prerequisite of material phenomena. According to this view, consciousness exists \"before\" and is the pre-condition of material existence. Consciousness creates and determines the material and not vice versa. Idealism believes consciousness and mind to be the origin of the material world and aims to explain the existing world according to these principles.\n\nIdealism theories are mainly divided into two groups. Subjective idealism takes as its starting point the given fact of human consciousness seeing the existing world as a combination of sensation. Objective idealism posits the existence of an \"objective\" consciousness which exists before and, in some sense, independently of human ones. In a sociological sense, idealism emphasizes how human ideas—especially beliefs and values—shape society. As an ontological doctrine, idealism goes further, asserting that all entities are composed of mind or spirit. Idealism thus rejects physicalist and dualist theories that fail to ascribe priority to the mind.\n\nThe earliest extant arguments that the world of experience is grounded in the mental derive from India and Greece. The Hindu idealists in India and the Greek Neoplatonists gave panentheistic arguments for an all-pervading consciousness as the ground or true nature of reality. In contrast, the Yogācāra school, which arose within Mahayana Buddhism in India in the 4th century CE, based its \"mind-only\" idealism to a greater extent on phenomenological analyses of personal experience. This turn toward the subjective anticipated empiricists such as George Berkeley, who revived idealism in 18th-century Europe by employing skeptical arguments against materialism. Beginning with Immanuel Kant, German idealists such as Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Friedrich Wilhelm Joseph Schelling, and Arthur Schopenhauer dominated 19th-century philosophy. This tradition, which emphasized the mental or \"ideal\" character of all phenomena, gave birth to idealistic and subjectivist schools ranging from British idealism to phenomenalism to existentialism.\n\nIdealism as a philosophy came under heavy attack in the West at the turn of the 20th century. The most influential critics of both epistemological and ontological idealism were G. E. Moore and Bertrand Russell, but its critics also included the New Realists. According to \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\", the attacks by Moore and Russell were so influential that even more than 100 years later \"any acknowledgment of idealistic tendencies is viewed in the English-speaking world with reservation\". However, many aspects and paradigms of idealism did still have a large influence on subsequent philosophy.\n\n\"Idealism\" is a term with several related meanings. It comes via \"idea\" from the Greek \"idein\" (ἰδεῖν), meaning \"to see\". The term entered the English language by 1743. In ordinary use, as when speaking of Woodrow Wilson's political idealism, it generally suggests the priority of ideals, principles, values, and goals over concrete realities. Idealists are understood to represent the world as it might or should be, unlike pragmatists, who focus on the world as it presently is. In the arts, similarly, idealism affirms imagination and attempts to realize a mental conception of beauty, a standard of perfection, juxtaposed to aesthetic naturalism and realism.\n\nAny philosophy that assigns crucial importance to the ideal or spiritual realm in its account of human existence may be termed \"idealist\". Metaphysical idealism is an ontological doctrine that holds that reality itself is incorporeal or experiential at its core. Beyond this, idealists disagree on which aspects of the mental are more basic. Platonic idealism affirms that abstractions are more basic to reality than the things we perceive, while subjective idealists and phenomenalists tend to privilege sensory experience over abstract reasoning. Epistemological idealism is the view that reality can only be known through ideas, that only psychological experience can be apprehended by the mind.\n\nSubjective idealists like George Berkeley are anti-realists in terms of a mind-independent world, whereas transcendental idealists like Immanuel Kant are strong skeptics of such a world, affirming epistemological and not metaphysical idealism. Thus Kant defines \"idealism\" as \"the assertion that we can never be certain whether all of our putative outer experience is not mere imagining\". He claimed that, according to \"idealism\", \"the reality of external objects does not admit of strict proof. On the contrary, however, the reality of the object of our internal sense (of myself and state) is clear immediately through consciousness\". However, not all idealists restrict the real or the knowable to our immediate subjective experience. Objective idealists make claims about a transempirical world, but simply deny that this world is essentially divorced from or ontologically prior to the mental. Thus, Plato and Gottfried Leibniz affirm an objective and knowable reality transcending our subjective awareness—a rejection of epistemological idealism—but propose that this reality is grounded in ideal entities, a form of metaphysical idealism. Nor do all metaphysical idealists agree on the nature of the ideal; for Plato, the fundamental entities were non-mental abstract forms, while for Leibniz they were proto-mental and concrete monads.\n\nAs a rule, transcendental idealists like Kant affirm idealism's epistemic side without committing themselves to whether reality is \"ultimately\" mental; objective idealists like Plato affirm reality's metaphysical basis in the mental or abstract without restricting their epistemology to ordinary experience; and subjective idealists like Berkeley affirm both metaphysical and epistemological idealism.\n\nIdealism as a form of metaphysical monism holds that consciousness, not matter, is the ground of all being. It is monist because it holds that there is only one type of thing in the universe and idealist because it holds that one thing to be consciousness.\n\nAnaxagoras (480 BC) taught that \"all things\" were created by \"Nous\" (\"Mind\"). He held that Mind held the cosmos together and gave human beings a connection to the cosmos or a pathway to the divine.\n\nPlato's theory of forms or \"ideas\" describes ideal forms (for example the platonic solids in geometry or abstracts like Goodness and Justice), as universals existing independently of any particular instance. Arne Grøn calls this doctrine \"the classic example of a metaphysical idealism as a \"transcendent\" idealism\", while Simone Klein calls Plato \"the earliest representative of metaphysical objective idealism\". Nevertheless, Plato holds that matter is real, though transitory and imperfect, and is perceived by our body and its senses and given existence by the eternal ideas that are perceived directly by our rational soul. Plato was therefore a metaphysical and epistemological dualist, an outlook that modern idealism has striven to avoid: Plato's thought cannot therefore be counted as idealist in the modern sense.\n\nWith the Neoplatonist Plotinus, wrote Nathaniel Alfred Boll \"there even appears, probably for the first time in Western philosophy, \"idealism\" that had long been current in the East even at that time, for it taught... that the soul has made the world by stepping from eternity into time...\". Similarly, in regard to passages from the Enneads, \"The only space or place of the world is the soul\" and \"Time must not be assumed to exist outside the soul\". Ludwig Noiré wrote: \"For the first time in Western philosophy we find idealism proper in Plotinus\". However, Plotinus does not address whether we know external objects, unlike Schopenhauer and other modern philosophers.\n\nChristian theologians have held idealist views, often based on Neoplatonism, despite the influence of Aristotelian scholasticism from the 12th century onward. Later western theistic idealism such as that of Hermann Lotze offers a theory of the \"world ground\" in which all things find their unity: it has been widely accepted by Protestant theologians. Several modern religious movements, for example the organizations within the New Thought Movement and the Unity Church, may be said to have a particularly idealist orientation. The theology of Christian Science includes a form of idealism: it teaches that all that truly exists is God and God's ideas; that the world as it appears to the senses is a distortion of the underlying spiritual reality, a distortion that may be corrected (both conceptually and in terms of human experience) through a reorientation (spiritualization) of thought.\n\nWang Yangming, a Ming Chinese neo-Confucian philosopher, official, educationist, calligraphist and general, held that objects do not exist entirely apart from the mind because the mind shapes them. It is not the world that shapes the mind but the mind that gives reason to the world, so the mind alone is the source of all reason, having an inner light, an innate moral goodness and understanding of what is good.\n\nThere are currents of idealism throughout Indian philosophy, ancient and modern. Hindu idealism often takes the form of monism or non-dualism, espousing the view that a unitary consciousness is the essence or meaning of the phenomenal reality and plurality.\n\nBuddhist idealism on the other hand is more epistemic and is not a metaphysical monism, which Buddhists consider eternalistic and hence not the middle way between extremes espoused by the Buddha.\n\nThe oldest reference to Idealism in Vedic texts is in Purusha Sukta of the Rig Veda. This sukta espouses panentheism by presenting cosmic being Purusha as both pervading all universe and yet being transcendent to it. Absolute idealism can be seen in Chāndogya Upaniṣad, where things of the objective world like the five elements and the subjective world such as will, hope, memory etc. are seen to be emanations from the Self.\n\nIdealist notions have been propounded by the Vedanta schools of thought, which use the Vedas, especially the Upanishads as their key texts. Idealism was opposed by dualists Samkhya, the atomists Vaisheshika, the logicians Nyaya, the linguists Mimamsa and the materialists Cārvāka. There are various sub schools of Vedanta, like Advaita Vedanta (non-dual), Vishishtadvaita and Bhedabheda Vedanta (difference and non-difference).\n\nThe schools of Vedanta all attempt to explain the nature and relationship of Brahman (universal soul or Self) and Atman (individual self), which they see as the central topic of the Vedas. One of the earliest attempts at this was Bādarāyaņa's Brahma Sutras, which is canonical for all Vedanta sub-schools. Advaita Vedanta is a major sub school of Vedanta which holds a non-dual Idealistic metaphysics. According to Advaita thinkers like Adi Shankara (788–820) and his contemporary Maṇḍana Miśra, Brahman, the single unitary consciousness or absolute awareness, appears as the diversity of the world because of \"maya\" or illusion, and hence perception of plurality is \"mithya\", error. The world and all beings or souls in it have no separate existence from Brahman, universal consciousness, and the seemingly independent soul (\"jiva\") is identical to Brahman. These doctrines are represented in verses such as \"brahma satyam jagan mithya; jīvo brahmaiva na aparah\" (Brahman is alone True, and this world of plurality is an error; the individual self is not different from Brahman). Other forms of Vedanta like the Vishishtadvaita of Ramanuja and the Bhedabheda of Bhāskara are not as radical in their non-dualism, accepting that there is a certain difference between individual souls and Brahman. Dvaita school of Vedanta by Madhvacharya maintains the opposing view that the world is real and eternal. It also argues that real atman fully depends and reflection of independent brahman. \n\nThe Tantric tradition of Kashmir Shaivism has also been categorized by scholars as a form of Idealism. The key thinker of this tradition is the Kashmirian Abhinavagupta (975–1025 CE).\n\nModern Vedic Idealism was defended by the influential Indian philosopher Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan in his 1932 \"An Idealist View of Life\" and other works, which espouse Advaita Vedanta. The essence of Hindu Idealism is captured by such modern writers as Sri Nisargadatta Maharaj, Sri Aurobindo, P. R. Sarkar, and Sohail Inayatullah.\n\nBuddhist views which can be said to be similar to Idealism appear in Mahayana Buddhist texts such as the Samdhinirmocana sutra, Laṅkāvatāra Sūtra, Dashabhumika sutra, etc. These were later expanded upon by Indian Buddhist philosophers like Vasubandhu, Asaṅga, Dharmakīrti, and Śāntarakṣita. Yogacara thought was also promoted in China, by Chinese philosophers and translators like Xuanzang.\n\nThere is a modern scholarly disagreement about whether Yogacara Buddhism can be said to be a form of idealism. As Saam Trivedi notes: \"on one side of the debate, writers such as Jay Garfield, Jeffrey Hopkins, Paul Williams, and others maintain the idealism label, while on the other side, Stefan Anacker, Dan Lusthaus, Richard King, Thomas Kochumuttom, Alex Wayman, Janice Dean Willis, and others have argued that Yogacara is not idealist.\" The central point of issue is what Buddhist philosophers like Vasubandhu who used the term \"Vijñapti-matra\" (representation-only or cognition-only) and formulated arguments to refute external objects actually meant to say.\n\nVasubandhu's works include a refutation of external objects or externality itself and argues that the true nature of reality is beyond subject-object distinctions. He views ordinary consciousness experience as deluded in its perceptions of an external world separate from itself and instead argues that all there is \"Vijñapti\" (representation or conceptualization). Hence Vasubandhu begins his \"Vimsatika\" with the verse: \"All this is consciousness-only, because of the appearance of non-existent objects, just as someone with an optical disorder may see non-existent nets of hair.\"\n\nLikewise, the Buddhist philosopher Dharmakirti's view of the apparent existence of external objects is summed up by him in the Pramānaṿārttika (‘Commentary on Logic and Epistemology’): \"Cognition experiences itself, and nothing else whatsoever. Even the particular objects of perception, are by nature just consciousness itself.\"\n\nWhile some writers like Jay Garfield hold that Vasubandhu is a metaphysical idealist, others see him as closer to an epistemic idealist like Kant who holds that our knowledge of the world is simply knowledge of our own concepts and perceptions of a transcendental world. Sean Butler upholding that Yogacara is a form of idealism, albeit its own unique type, notes the similarity of Kant's categories and Yogacara's \"Vāsanās\", both of which are simply phenomenal tools with which the mind interprets the noumenal realm. Unlike Kant however who holds that the noumenon or thing-in-itself is unknowable to us, Vasubandhu holds that ultimate reality is knowable, but only through non-conceptual yogic perception of a highly trained meditative mind.\n\nWriters like Dan Lusthaus who hold that Yogacara is not a metaphysical idealism point out, for example, that Yogācāra thinkers did not focus on consciousness to assert it as ontologically real, but simply to analyze how our experiences and thus our suffering is created. As Lusthaus notes: \"no Indian Yogācāra text ever claims that the world is created by mind. What they do claim is that we mistake our projected interpretations of the world for the world itself, i.e. we take our own mental constructions to be the world.\" Lusthaus notes that there are similarities to Western epistemic idealists like Kant and Husserl, enough so that Yogacara can be seen as a form of epistemological idealism. However he also notes key differences like the concepts of karma and nirvana. Saam Trivedi meanwhile notes the similarities between epistemic idealism and Yogacara, but adds that Yogacara Buddhism is in a sense its own theory.\n\nSimilarly, Thomas Kochumuttom sees Yogacara as \"an explanation of experience, rather than a system of ontology\" and Stefan Anacker sees Vasubandhu's philosophy as a form of psychology and as a mainly therapeutic enterprise.\n\nSubjective idealism (immaterialism or phenomenalism) describes a relationship between experience and the world in which objects are no more than collections or bundles of sense data in the perceiver. Proponents include Berkeley, Bishop of Cloyne, an Anglo-Irish philosopher who advanced a theory he called \"immaterialism,\" later referred to as \"subjective idealism\", contending that individuals can only know sensations and ideas of objects directly, not abstractions such as \"matter\", and that ideas also depend upon being perceived for their very existence - \"esse est percipi\"; \"to be is to be perceived\".\n\nArthur Collier published similar assertions though there seems to have been no influence between the two contemporary writers. The only knowable reality is the represented image of an external object. Matter as a cause of that image, is unthinkable and therefore nothing to us. An external world as absolute matter unrelated to an observer does not exist as far as we are concerned. The universe cannot exist as it appears if there is no perceiving mind. Collier was influenced by \"An Essay Towards the Theory of the Ideal or Intelligible World\" by Cambridge Platonist John Norris (1701).\n\nBertrand Russell's popular book \"The Problems of Philosophy\" highlights Berkeley's tautological premise for advancing idealism;\n\nThe Austrailian philosopher David Stove harshly criticized philosophical idealism, arguing that it rests on what he called \"the worst argument in the world\". Stove claims that Berkeley tried to derive a non-tautological conclusion from tautological reasoning. He argued that in Berkeley's case the fallacy is not obvious and this is because one premise is ambiguous between one meaning which is tautological and another which, Stove argues, is logically equivalent to the conclusion.\n\nAlan Musgrave argues that conceptual idealists compound their mistakes with use/mention confusions;\n\nand proliferation of hyphenated entities such as \"thing-in-itself\" (Immanuel Kant), \"things-as-interacted-by-us\" (Arthur Fine), \"table-of-commonsense\" and \"table-of-physics\" (Sir Arthur Eddington) which are \"warning signs\" for conceptual idealism according to Musgrave because they allegedly do not exist but only highlight the numerous ways in which people come to know the world. This argument does not take into account the issues pertaining to hermeneutics, especially at the backdrop of analytic philosophy. Musgrave criticized Richard Rorty and postmodernist philosophy in general for confusion of use and mention.\n\nA. A. Luce and John Foster are other subjectivists. Luce, in \"Sense without Matter\" (1954), attempts to bring Berkeley up to date by modernizing his vocabulary and putting the issues he faced in modern terms, and treats the Biblical account of matter and the psychology of perception and nature. Foster's \"The Case for Idealism\" argues that the physical world is the logical creation of natural, non-logical constraints on human sense-experience. Foster's latest defense of his views (phenomenalistic idealism) is in his book \"A World for Us: The Case for Phenomenalistic Idealism\".\n\nPaul Brunton, a British philosopher, mystic, traveler, and guru, taught a type of idealism called \"mentalism,\" similar to that of Bishop Berkeley, proposing a master world-image, projected or manifested by a world-mind, and an infinite number of individual minds participating. A tree does not cease to exist if nobody sees it because the world-mind is projecting the idea of the tree to all minds\n\nJohn Searle, criticizing some versions of idealism, summarizes two important arguments for subjective idealism. The first is based on our perception of reality:\n\ntherefore;\n\nWhilst agreeing with (2) Searle argues that (1) is false and points out that (3) does not follow from (1) and (2). The second argument runs as follows;\n\nSearle contends that \"Conclusion 2\" does not follow from the premises.\n\nEpistemological idealism is a subjectivist position in epistemology that holds that what one knows about an object exists only in one's mind. Proponents include Brand Blanshard.\n\nTranscendental idealism, founded by Immanuel Kant in the eighteenth century, maintains that the mind shapes the world we perceive into the form of space-and-time.\n\nThe 2nd edition (1787) contained a \"Refutation of Idealism\" to distinguish his transcendental idealism from Descartes's Sceptical Idealism and Berkeley's anti-realist strain of Subjective Idealism. The section \"Paralogisms of Pure Reason\" is an implicit critique of Descartes' idealism. Kant says that it is not possible to infer the 'I' as an object (Descartes' \"cogito ergo sum\") purely from \"the spontaneity of thought\". Kant focused on ideas drawn from British philosophers such as Locke, Berkeley and Hume but distinguished his transcendental or critical idealism from previous varieties;\n\nKant distinguished between things as they appear to an observer and things in themselves, \"that is, things considered without regard to whether and how they may be given to us\". We cannot approach the \"noumenon\", the \"thing in Itself\" () without our own mental world. He added that the mind is not a blank slate, \"tabula rasa\" but rather comes equipped with categories for organising our sense impressions.\n\nIn the first volume of his \"Parerga and Paralipomena\", Schopenhauer wrote his \"Sketch of a History of the Doctrine of the Ideal and the Real\". He defined the ideal as being mental pictures that constitute subjective knowledge. The ideal, for him, is what can be attributed to our own minds. The images in our head are what comprise the ideal. Schopenhauer emphasized that we are restricted to our own consciousness. The world that appears is only a representation or mental picture of objects. We directly and immediately know only representations. All objects that are external to the mind are known indirectly through the mediation of our mind. He offered a history of the concept of the \"ideal\" as \"ideational\" or \"existing in the mind as an image\".\n\nCharles Bernard Renouvier was the first Frenchman after Nicolas Malebranche to formulate a complete idealistic system, and had a vast influence on the development of French thought. His system is based on Immanuel Kant's, as his chosen term \"néo-criticisme\" indicates; but it is a transformation rather than a continuation of Kantianism.\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche argued that Kant commits an agnostic tautology and does not offer a satisfactory answer as to the \"source\" of a philosophical right to such-or-other metaphysical claims; he ridicules his pride in tackling \"the most difficult thing that could ever be undertaken on behalf of metaphysics.\" The famous \"thing-in-itself\" was called a product of philosophical habit, which seeks to introduce a grammatical subject: because wherever there is cognition, there must be a \"thing\" that is cognized and allegedly it must be added to ontology as a being (whereas, to Nietzsche, only the world as ever changing appearances can be assumed). Yet he attacks the idealism of Schopenhauer and Descartes with an argument similar to Kant's critique of the latter \"(see above)\".\n\nObjective idealism asserts that the reality of experiencing combines and transcends the realities of the object experienced and of the mind of the observer. Proponents include Thomas Hill Green, Josiah Royce, Benedetto Croce and Charles Sanders Peirce.\n\nSchelling (1775–1854) claimed that the Fichte's \"I\" needs the Not-I, because there is no subject without object, and vice versa. So there is no difference between the subjective and the objective, that is, the ideal and the real. This is Schelling's \"absolute identity\": the ideas or mental images in the mind are identical to the extended objects which are external to the mind.\n\nAbsolute idealism is G. W. F. Hegel's account of how existence is comprehensible as an all-inclusive whole. Hegel called his philosophy \"absolute\" idealism in contrast to the \"subjective idealism\" of Berkeley and the \"transcendental idealism\" of Kant and Fichte, which were not based on a critique of the finite and a dialectical philosophy of history as Hegel's idealism was. The exercise of reason and intellect enables the philosopher to know ultimate historical reality, the phenomenological constitution of self-determination, the dialectical development of self-awareness and personality in the realm of History.\n\nIn his \"Science of Logic\" (1812–1814) Hegel argues that finite qualities are not fully \"real\" because they depend on other finite qualities to determine them. Qualitative \"infinity\", on the other hand, would be more self-determining and hence more fully real. Similarly finite natural things are less \"real\"—because they are less self-determining—than spiritual things like morally responsible people, ethical communities and God. So any doctrine, such as materialism, that asserts that finite qualities or natural objects are fully real is mistaken.\n\nHegel certainly intends to preserve what he takes to be true of German idealism, in particular Kant's insistence that ethical reason can and does go beyond finite inclinations. For Hegel there must be some identity of thought and being for the \"subject\" (any human observer) to be able to know any observed \"object\" (any external entity, possibly even another human) at all. Under Hegel's concept of \"subject-object identity,\" subject and object both have Spirit (Hegel's ersatz, redefined, nonsupernatural \"God\") as their \"conceptual\" (not metaphysical) inner reality—and in that sense are identical. But until Spirit's \"self-realization\" occurs and Spirit graduates from Spirit to \"Absolute\" Spirit status, subject (a human mind) mistakenly thinks every \"object\" it observes is something \"alien,\" meaning something separate or apart from \"subject.\" In Hegel's words, \"The object is revealed to it [to \"subject\"] by [as] something alien, and it does not recognize itself.\" Self-realization occurs when Hegel (part of Spirit's nonsupernatural Mind, which is the collective mind of all humans) arrives on the scene and realizes that every \"object\" is \"himself\", because both subject and object are essentially Spirit. When self-realization occurs and Spirit becomes \"Absolute\" Spirit, the \"finite\" (man, human) becomes the \"infinite\" (\"God,\" divine), replacing the imaginary or \"picture-thinking\" supernatural God of theism: man becomes God. Tucker puts it this way: \"Hegelianism . . . is a religion of self-worship whose fundamental theme is given in Hegel's image of the man who aspires to be God himself, who demands 'something more, namely infinity.'\" The picture Hegel presents is \"a picture of a self-glorifying humanity striving compulsively, and at the end successfully, to rise to divinity.\"\n\nKierkegaard criticized Hegel's idealist philosophy in several of his works, particularly his claim to a comprehensive system that could explain the whole of reality. Where Hegel argues that an ultimate understanding of the logical structure of the world is an understanding of the logical structure of God's mind, Kierkegaard asserts that for God reality can be a system but it cannot be so for any human individual because both reality and humans are incomplete and all philosophical systems imply completeness. A logical system is possible but an existential system is not. \"What is rational is actual; and what is actual is rational\". Hegel's absolute idealism blurs the distinction between existence and thought: our mortal nature places limits on our understanding of reality;\n\nSo-called systems have often been characterized and challenged in the assertion that they abrogate the distinction between good and evil, and destroy freedom. Perhaps one would express oneself quite as definitely, if one said that every such system fantastically dissipates the concept existence. ... Being an individual man is a thing that has been abolished, and every speculative philosopher confuses himself with humanity at large; whereby he becomes something infinitely great, and at the same time nothing at all.\n\nA major concern of Hegel's \"Phenomenology of Spirit\" (1807) and of the philosophy of Spirit that he lays out in his \"Encyclopedia of the Philosophical Sciences\" (1817–1830) is the interrelation between individual humans, which he conceives in terms of \"mutual recognition.\" However, what Climacus means by the aforementioned statement, is that Hegel, in the \"Philosophy of Right\", believed the best solution was to surrender one's individuality to the customs of the State, identifying right and wrong in view of the prevailing bourgeois morality. Individual human will ought, at the State's highest level of development, to properly coincide with the will of the State. Climacus rejects Hegel's suppression of individuality by pointing out it is impossible to create a valid set of rules or system in any society which can adequately describe existence for any one individual. Submitting one's will to the State denies personal freedom, choice, and responsibility.\n\nIn addition, Hegel does believe we can know the structure of God's mind, or ultimate reality. Hegel agrees with Kierkegaard that both reality and humans are incomplete, inasmuch as we are in time, and reality develops through time. But the relation between time and eternity is outside time and this is the \"logical structure\" that Hegel thinks we can know. Kierkegaard disputes this assertion, because it eliminates the clear distinction between ontology and epistemology. Existence and thought are not identical and one cannot possibly think existence. Thought is always a form of abstraction, and thus not only is pure existence impossible to think, but all forms in existence are unthinkable; thought depends on language, which merely abstracts from experience, thus separating us from lived experience and the living essence of all beings. In addition, because we are finite beings, we cannot possibly know or understand anything that is universal or infinite such as God, so we cannot know God exists, since that which transcends time simultaneously transcends human understanding.\n\nBradley saw reality as a monistic whole apprehended through \"feeling\", a state in which there is no distinction between the perception and the thing perceived. Like Berkeley, Bradley thought that nothing can be known to exist unless it is known by a mind.\n\nBradley was the apparent target of G. E. Moore's radical rejection of idealism. Moore claimed that Bradley did not understand the statement that something is real. We know for certain, through common sense and prephilosophical beliefs, that some things are real, whether they are objects of thought or not, according to Moore. The 1903 article \"The Refutation of Idealism\" is one of the first demonstrations of Moore's commitment to analysis. He examines each of the three terms in the Berkeleian aphorism \"esse est percipi\", \"to be is to be perceived\", finding that it must mean that the object and the subject are \"necessarily\" connected so that \"yellow\" and \"the sensation of yellow\" are identical - \"to be yellow\" is \"to be experienced as yellow\". But it also seems there is a difference between \"yellow\" and \"the sensation of yellow\" and \"that \"esse\" is held to be \"percipi\", solely because what is experienced is held to be identical with the experience of it\". Though far from a complete refutation, this was the first strong statement by analytic philosophy against its idealist predecessors, or at any rate against the type of idealism represented by Berkeley.\n\nActual idealism is a form of idealism developed by Giovanni Gentile that grew into a \"grounded\" idealism contrasting Kant and Hegel. The idea is a version of Occam's razor; the simpler explanations are always correct. Actual idealism is the idea that reality is the ongoing act of thinking, or in Italian \"pensiero pensante\". Any action done by humans is classified as human thought because the action was done due to predisposed thought. He further believes that thoughts are the only concept that truly exist since reality is defined through the act of thinking. This idea was derived from Gentile's paper, \"The Theory of Mind As Pure Act\".\n\nSince thoughts are actions, any conjectured idea can be enacted. This idea not only affects the individual's life, but everyone around them, which in turn affects the state since the people are the state. Therefore, thoughts of each person are subsumed within the state. The state is a composition of many minds that come together to change the country for better or worse.\n\nGentile theorizes that thoughts can only be conjectured within the bounds of known reality; abstract thinking does not exist. Thoughts cannot be formed outside our known reality because we are the reality that halt ourselves from thinking externally. With accordance to \"The Act of Thought of Pure Thought\", our actions comprise our thoughts, our thoughts create perception, perceptions define reality, thus we think within our created reality.\n\nThe present act of thought is reality but the past is not reality; it is history. The reason being, past can be rewritten through present knowledge and perspective of the event. The reality that is currently constructed can be completely changed through language (e.g. bias (omission, source, tone)). The unreliability of the recorded realty can skew the original concept and make the past remark unreliable. \nActual idealism is regarded as a liberal and tolerant doctrine since it acknowledges that every being picturizes reality, in which their ideas remained hatched, differently. Even though, reality is a figment of thought.\n\nEven though core concept of the theory is famous for its simplification, its application is regarded as extremely ambiguous. Over the years, philosophers have interpreted it numerously different ways: Holmes took it as metaphysics of the thinking act; Betti as a form of hermeneutics; Harris as a metaphysics of democracy; Fogu as a modernist philosophy of history.\n\nGiovanni Gentile was a key supporter of fascism, regarded by many as the \"philosopher of fascism\". Gentile's philosophy was the key to understating fascism as it was believed by many who supported and loved it. They believed, if priori synthesis of subject and object is true, there is no difference between the individuals in society; they're all one. Which means that they have equal right, roles, and jobs. In fascist state, submission is given to one leader because individuals act as one body. In Gentile's view, far more can be accomplished when individuals are under a corporate body than a collection of autonomous individual.\n\nPluralistic idealism such as that of Gottfried Leibniz takes the view that there are many individual minds that together underlie the existence of the observed world and make possible the existence of the physical universe. Unlike absolute idealism, pluralistic idealism does not assume the existence of a single ultimate mental reality or \"Absolute\". Leibniz' form of idealism, known as Panpsychism, views \"monads\" as the true atoms of the universe and as entities having perception. The monads are \"substantial forms of being, \"elemental, individual, subject to their own laws, non-interacting, each reflecting the entire universe. Monads are centers of force, which is substance while space, matter and motion are phenomenal and their form and existence is dependent on the simple and immaterial monads. There is a pre-established harmony by God, the central monad, between the world in the minds of the monads and the external world of objects. Leibniz's cosmology embraced traditional Christian theism. The English psychologist and philosopher James Ward inspired by Leibniz had also defended a form of pluralistic idealism. According to Ward the universe is composed of \"psychic monads\" of different levels, interacting for mutual self-betterment.\n\nPersonalism is the view that the minds that underlie reality are the minds of persons. Borden Parker Bowne, a philosopher at Boston University, a founder and popularizer of personal idealism, presented it as a substantive reality of persons, the only reality, as known directly in self-consciousness. Reality is a society of interacting persons dependent on the Supreme Person of God. Other proponents include George Holmes Howison and J. M. E. McTaggart.\n\nHowison's personal idealism was also called \"California Personalism\" by others to distinguish it from the \"Boston Personalism\" which was of Bowne. Howison maintained that both impersonal, monistic idealism and materialism run contrary to the experience of moral freedom. To deny freedom to pursue truth, beauty, and \"benignant love\" is to undermine every profound human venture, including science, morality, and philosophy. Personalistic idealists Borden Parker Bowne and Edgar S. Brightman and realistic personal theist Saint Thomas Aquinas address a core issue, namely that of dependence upon an infinite personal God.\n\nHowison, in his book \"The Limits of Evolution and Other Essays Illustrating the Metaphysical Theory of Personal Idealism\", created a democratic notion of personal idealism that extended all the way to God, who was no more the ultimate monarch but the ultimate democrat in eternal relation to other eternal persons. J. M. E. McTaggart's idealist atheism and Thomas Davidson's Apeirionism resemble Howisons personal idealism.\n\nJ. M. E. McTaggart of Cambridge University argued that minds alone exist and only relate to each other through love. Space, time and material objects are unreal. In \"The Unreality of Time\" he argued that time is an illusion because it is impossible to produce a coherent account of a sequence of events. \"The Nature of Existence\" (1927) contained his arguments that space, time, and matter cannot possibly be real. In his \"Studies in Hegelian Cosmology\" (Cambridge, 1901, p196) he declared that metaphysics are not relevant to social and political action. McTaggart \"thought that Hegel was wrong in supposing that metaphysics could show that the state is more than a means to the good of the individuals who compose it\". For McTaggart \"philosophy can give us very little, if any, guidance in action... Why should a Hegelian citizen be surprised that his belief as to the organic nature of the Absolute does not help him in deciding how to vote? Would a Hegelian engineer be reasonable in expecting that his belief that all matter is spirit should help him in planning a bridge?\n\nThomas Davidson taught a philosophy called \"apeirotheism\", a \"form of pluralistic idealism...coupled with a stern ethical rigorism\" which he defined as \"a theory of Gods infinite in number.\" The theory was indebted to Aristotle's pluralism and his concepts of Soul, the rational, living aspect of a living substance which cannot exist apart from the body because it is not a substance but an essence, and \"nous\", rational thought, reflection and understanding. Although a perennial source of controversy, Aristotle arguably views the latter as both eternal and immaterial in nature, as exemplified in his theology of unmoved movers. Identifying Aristotle's God with rational thought, Davidson argued, contrary to Aristotle, that just as the soul cannot exist apart from the body, God cannot exist apart from the world.\n\nIdealist notions took a strong hold among physicists of the early 20th century confronted with the paradoxes of quantum physics and the theory of relativity. In \"The Grammar of Science\", Preface to the 2nd Edition, 1900, Karl Pearson wrote, \"There are many signs that a sound idealism is surely replacing, as a basis for natural philosophy, the crude materialism of the older physicists.\" This book influenced Einstein's regard for the importance of the observer in scientific measurements. In § 5 of that book, Pearson asserted that \"...science is in reality a classification and analysis of the contents of the mind...\" Also, \"...the field of science is much more consciousness than an external world.\"\n\nSir Arthur Eddington, a British astrophysicist of the early 20th century, wrote in his book \"The Nature of the Physical World\" that \"The stuff of the world is mind-stuff\": The mind-stuff of the world is, of course, something more general than our individual conscious minds... The mind-stuff is not spread in space and time; these are part of the cyclic scheme ultimately derived out of it... It is necessary to keep reminding ourselves that all knowledge of our environment from which the world of physics is constructed, has entered in the form of messages transmitted along the nerves to the seat of consciousness... Consciousness is not sharply defined, but fades into subconsciousness; and beyond that we must postulate something indefinite but yet continuous with our mental nature... It is difficult for the matter-of-fact physicist to accept the view that the substratum of everything is of mental character. But no one can deny that mind is the first and most direct thing in our experience, and all else is remote inference.\"\nIan Barbour in his book \"Issues in Science and Religion\" (1966), p. 133, cites Arthur Eddington's \"The Nature of the Physical World\" (1928) for a text that argues The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principles provides a scientific basis for \"the defense of the idea of human freedom\" and his \"Science and the Unseen World\" (1929) for support of philosophical idealism \"the thesis that reality is basically mental\".\n\nSir James Jeans wrote: \"The stream of knowledge is heading towards a non-mechanical reality; the Universe begins to look more like a great thought than like a great machine. Mind no longer appears to be an accidental intruder into the realm of matter... we ought rather hail it as the creator and governor of the realm of matter.\"\n\nJeans, in an interview published in The Observer (London), when asked the question: \"Do you believe that life on this planet is the result of some sort of accident, or do you believe that it is a part of some great scheme?\" replied: I incline to the idealistic theory that consciousness is fundamental, and that the material universe is derivative from consciousness, not consciousness from the material universe... In general the universe seems to me to be nearer to a great thought than to a great machine. It may well be, it seems to me, that each individual consciousness ought to be compared to a brain-cell in a universal mind.\n\nAddressing the British Association in 1934, Jeans said: What remains is in any case very different from the full-blooded matter and the forbidding materialism of the Victorian scientist. His objective and material universe is proved to consist of little more than constructs of our own minds. To this extent, then, modern physics has moved in the direction of philosophic idealism. Mind and matter, if not proved to be of similar nature, are at least found to be ingredients of one single system. There is no longer room for the kind of dualism which has haunted philosophy since the days of Descartes.\n\nIn \"The Universe Around Us\", Jeans writes: Finite picture whose dimensions are a certain amount of space and a certain amount of time; the protons and electrons are the streaks of paint which define the picture against its space-time background. Traveling as far back in time as we can, brings us not to the creation of the picture, but to its edge; the creation of the picture lies as much outside the picture as the artist is outside his canvas. On this view, discussing the creation of the universe in terms of time and space is like trying to discover the artist and the action of painting, by going to the edge of the canvas. This brings us very near to those philosophical systems which regard the universe as a thought in the mind of its Creator, thereby reducing all discussion of material creation to futility.\n\nThe chemist Ernest Lester Smith wrote a book \"Intelligence Came First\" (1975) in which he claimed that consciousness is a fact of nature and that the cosmos is grounded in and pervaded by mind and intelligence.\n\nBernard d'Espagnat, a French theoretical physicist best known for his work on the nature of reality, wrote a paper titled \"The Quantum Theory and Reality\". According to the paper: The doctrine that the world is made up of objects whose existence is independent of human consciousness turns out to be in conflict with quantum mechanics and with facts established by experiment.\n\nIn a \"Guardian\" article entitled \"Quantum Weirdness: What We Call 'Reality' is Just a State of Mind\", d'Espagnat wrote: What quantum mechanics tells us, I believe, is surprising to say the least. It tells us that the basic components of objects – the particles, electrons, quarks etc. – cannot be thought of as 'self-existent'.\n\nHe further writes that his research in quantum physics has led him to conclude that an \"ultimate reality\" exists, which is not embedded in space or time.\n\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "31540060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31540060", "title": "Identity intelligence", "text": "Identity intelligence\n\nIn computer science, Identity Intelligence is the application, within the Identity Management field, of analytical techniques typical of business intelligence and other related tools for analysis and control.\n\nThe term \"Identity Intelligence\" has been diffused throughout the course of 2010, also thanks to its adoption by Gartner, and refers mainly to the following set of capabilities:\n\nThe need for Identity Intelligence tools and models comes with the awareness, developed in recent years, that an Identity Management system used for the sole purpose of automating the user account management, exploits its possibilities only in part. In recent years the 'Identity Management solutions are increasingly seen as tools addressed to security governance, tools used increase security, tools used to meet the compliance requirements that organizations must meet in order to satisfy regulatory constraints, to obtain certifications and to satisfy internal and external audit.\n\nThe assumption to the adoption of an Identity Intelligence solution is that \"you can not manage what you can not measure\". In order to properly manage user accounts and identities, you must first be able to get to know them in detail.\n\nFor these reasons, between 2010 and 2011 the evolution trend shows how companies adopt mechanisms and instruments of Identity Intelligence from the early stages of the life cycle of their Identity Management systems. The most innovative approach that provides the Identity Intelligence is introduced in the company even before the 'Identity Management, so that it can serve as a support in the definition of requirements and the model of Identity Management to be performed. This approach, while introducing the cost of a preliminary stage, it increases the chances of success of a project of Identity Management, allows to have information about the status of the User Management useful to ascertain the real need for such a project and gives you a snapshot of the situation to the \"time\"0\", \"to which you can always see in the future to measure the success or failure of projects.\n"}
{"id": "237890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237890", "title": "Immanence", "text": "Immanence\n\nThe doctrine or theory of immanence holds that the divine encompasses or is manifested in the material world. It is held by some philosophical and metaphysical theories of divine presence. Immanence is usually applied in monotheistic, pantheistic, pandeistic, or panentheistic faiths to suggest that the spiritual world permeates the . It is often contrasted with theories of transcendence, in which the divine is seen to be outside the material world.\n\nMajor faiths commonly devote significant philosophical efforts to explaining the relationship between immanence and transcendence but do so in different ways, such as:\n\nAnother meaning of immanence is the quality of being contained within, or remaining within the boundaries of a person, of the world, or of the mind. This meaning is more common within Christian and other monotheist theology, in which the one God is considered to transcend his creation.\n\nPythagoreanism says that the \"nous\" is an intelligent principle of the world acting with a specific intention. This is the divine reason regarded in Neoplatonism as the first emanation of the Divine. From the \"nous\" emerges the world soul, which gives rise to the manifest realm. Pythagoreanism goes on to say the Godhead is the Father, Mother, and Son (Zeus). In the mind of Zeus, the \"ideas\" are distinctly articulated and become the Logos by which he creates the world. These ideas become active in the Mind (\"nous\") of Zeus. With him is the Power and from him is the \"nous\". This theology further explains that Zeus is called Demiurge (\"Dêmiourgos\", Creator), Maker (\"Poiêtês\"), and Craftsman (\"Technitês\"). The nous of the demiurge proceeds outward into manifestation becoming living ideas. They give rise to a lineage of mortal human souls. The components of the soul are 1) the higher soul, seat of the intuitive mind (\"divine nous\"); 2) the rational soul (\"logistiko\"n) (seat of discursive reason / \"dianoia\"); 3) the nonrational soul (\"alogia\"), responsible for the senses, appetites, and motion. Zeus thinks the articulated ideas (Logos). The \"idea of ideas\" (\"Eidos - Eidôn\"), provides a model of the Paradigm of the Universe, which the Demiurge contemplates in his articulation of the \"ideas\" and his creation of the world according to the Logos.\n\nTantric Buddhism and Dzogchen posit a non-dual basis for both experience and reality that could be considered an exposition of a philosophy of immanence that has a history on the subcontinent of India from early CE to the present. A paradoxical non-dual awareness or \"rigpa\" (Tibetan — \"vidya\" in Sanskrit) — is said to be the 'self perfected state' of all beings. Scholarly works differentiate these traditions from monism. The non-dual is said to be not immanent and not transcendent, not neither, nor both. One classical exposition is the Madhyamaka refutation of extremes that the philosopher-adept Nagarjuna propounded.\n\nExponents of this non-dual tradition emphasize the importance of a direct experience of non-duality through both meditative practice and philosophical investigation. In one version, one maintains awareness as thoughts arise and dissolve within the 'field' of mind, one does not accept or reject them, rather one lets the mind wander as it will until a subtle sense of immanence dawns. Vipassana or insight is the integration of one's 'presence of awareness' with that which arises in mind. Non-duality or rigpa is said to be the recognition that both the quiet, calm abiding state as found in samatha and the movement or arising of phenomena as found in vipassana are not separate. In this way it could be stated that Dzogchen is a method for the recognition of a 'pure immanence' analogous to what Deleuze theorized about.\n\nAccording to Christian theology, the transcendent God, who cannot be approached or seen in essence or being, becomes immanent primarily in the God-man Jesus the Christ, who is the incarnate Second Person of the Trinity. In Byzantine Rite theology the immanence of God is expressed as the hypostases or energies of God, who in his essence is incomprehensible and transcendent. In Catholic theology, Christ and the Holy Spirit immanently reveal themselves; God the Father only reveals himself immanently vicariously through the Son and Spirit, and the Divine Nature, the Godhead is wholly transcendent and unable to be comprehended.\n\nThis is expressed in St. Paul's letter to the Philippians, where he writes:\n\nThe Holy Spirit is also expressed as an immanence of God.\n\nThe immanence of the triune God is celebrated in the Catholic Church and Eastern Churches during the liturgical calendar feast as the Theophany of God (see Feast of Theophany).\n\nPope Pius X wrote at length about philosophical-theological controversies over immanence in his encyclical \"Pascendi dominici gregis\".\n\nIn the theology of Karl Rahner, it is said that \"the economic Trinity is the immanent Trinity, and the immanent Trinity is the economic Trinity.\" That is to say, God communicates Himself to humanity (\"economic\" Trinity) as He really is in the divine Life (\"immanent\" Trinity).\n\nAccording to Latter Day Saint theology, all of material creation is filled with immanence, known as the light of Christ. It is also responsible for the intuitive conscience born into man. The Light of Christ is the source of intellectual and spiritual enlightenment, and is the means by which God is in and through all things. LDS scriptures identify the divine Light with the mind of God, the source of all truth and conveyor of the characteristics of the divine nature through God’s goodness. The experienced brilliance of God reflects the “fullness” of this spirit within God’s being. Similarly, mankind can incorporate this spiritual light or divine mind and thus become one with God. This immanent spirit of light bridges the scientific and spiritual conceptualizations of the universe.\n\nGiordano Bruno's, Baruch Spinoza's and, it may be argued, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's philosophies were philosophies of immanence versus philosophies of transcendence such as Thomism or Aristotelian tradition. Kant's \"transcendental\" critique can be contrasted to Hegel's \"immanent dialectics.\"\n\nGilles Deleuze qualified Spinoza as the \"prince of philosophers\" for his theory of immanence, which Spinoza resumed by \"Deus sive Natura\" (\"God or Nature\"). Such a theory considers that there is no transcendent principle or external cause to the world, and that the process of life production is contained in life itself. When compounded with Idealism, the immanence theory qualifies itself away from \"the world\" to there being no external cause to one's mind.\n\nGiovanni Gentile's actual idealism, sometimes called \"philosophy of immanence\" and the metaphysics of the \"I\", \"affirms the organic synthesis of dialectical opposites that are immanent within actual or present awareness\". His so-called method of immanence \"attempted to avoid: (1) the postulate of an independently existing world or a Kantian \"Ding-an-sich\" (thing-in-itself), and (2) the tendency of neo-Hegelian philosophy to lose the particular self in an Absolute that amounts to a kind of mystical reality without distinctions.\"\n\nPolitical theorist Carl Schmitt used the term in his book \"Politische Theologie\" (1922), meaning a power within some thought, which makes it obvious for the people to accept it, without needing to claim being justified. The immanence of some political system or a part of it comes from the reigning contemporary definer of \"Weltanschauung\", namely religion (or any similar system of beliefs, such as rationalistic or relativistic world-view). The Nazis took advantage of this theory creating, or resurrecting, basically religious mythology of race, its heroes, and its destiny to motivate people and to make their reign unquestionable, which it became.\n\nThe French 20th-century philosopher Gilles Deleuze used the term immanence to refer to his \"empiricist philosophy\", which was obliged to create action and results rather than establish transcendents. His final text was titled \"Immanence: a life...\" and spoke of a plane of immanence.\n\nFurthermore, the Russian Formalist film theorists perceived immanence as a specific method of discussing the limits of ability for a technological object. Specifically, this is the scope of potential uses of an object outside of the limits prescribed by culture or convention, and is instead simply the empirical spectrum of function for a technological artifact.\n\nTraditional Jewish religious thought can be divided into \"Nigleh\" (\"Revealed\") and \"Nistar\" (\"Hidden\") dimensions. Hebrew Scripture is, in the Kabbalistic tradition, explained using the four level exegesis method of \"Pardes\". In this system, the first three approaches, Simple, Hinted and Homiletical interpretations, characterise the revealed aspects. The fourth approach, the Secret meaning, characterises a hidden aspect. Among the classic texts of Jewish tradition, some Jewish Bible commentators, the \"Midrash\", the \"Talmud\", and mainstream Jewish philosophy use revealed approaches. Other Bible commentators, the Kabbalah, and Hasidic philosophy, use hidden approaches. Both dimensions are seen by adherents as united and complementary. In this way, ideas in Jewish thought are given a variety of ascending meanings. Explanations of a concept in \"Nigleh\", are given inherent, inner, mystical contexts from \"Nistar\".\n\nDescriptions of Divine immanence can be seen in \"Nigleh\", from the Bible to Rabbinic Judaism. In Genesis, God makes a personal covenant with the forefathers Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Daily Jewish prayers refer to this inherited closeness and personal relationship with the Divine, for their descendants, as \"the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob\". To Moses, God reveals his Tetragrammaton name, that more fully captures Divine descriptions of transcendence. Each of the Biblical names for God, describe different Divine manifestations. The most important prayer in Judaism, that forms part of the Scriptural narrative to Moses, says \"Hear O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is One.\" This declaration combines different Divine names, and themes of immanence and transcendence. Perhaps the most personal example of a Jewish prayer that combines both themes is the invocation repeatedly voiced during the time in the Jewish calendar devoted to \"Teshuva\" (Return, often inaccurately translated as Repentance), \"Avinu Malkeinu\" (\"Our Father, Our King\"). Much of the later Hebrew Biblical narrative recounts the reciprocal relationship and national drama of the unfolding of themes of immanence and transcendence. Kabbalistic, or Hasidic Jewish thought and philosophy describe and articulate these interconnected aspects of the Divine-human relationship.\n\nJewish Mysticism gives explanations of greater depth and spirituality, to the interconnected aspects of God's immanence and transcendence. The main expression of mysticism, the Kabbalah, began to be taught in 12th Century Europe, and reached a new systemisation in 16th Century Israel. The Kabbalah gives the full, subtle, traditional system of Jewish metaphysics. In the Medieval Kabbalah, new doctrines described the 10 \"Sephirot\" (Divine emanations) through which the Infinite, unknowable Divine essence reveals, emanates, and continuously creates existence. The Kabbalists identified the final, feminine \"Sefirah\" with the earlier, traditional Jewish concept of the \"Shekhinah\" (immanent Divine Presence). This gave great spirituality to earlier ideas in Jewish thought, such as the theological explanations of suffering (theodicy). In this example, the Kabbalists described the \"Shekhinah\" accompanying the children of Israel in their exile, being exiled alongside them, and yearning for Her redemption. Such a concept derives from the Kabbalistic theology that the physical World, and also the Upper spiritual Worlds, are continuously recreated from nothing by the \"Shefa\" (flow) of Divine will, which emanates through the \"Sefirot\". As a result, within all creations are Divine sparks of vitality that sustain them. Medieval \"Kabbalah\" describes two forms of Divine emanation, a \"light that fills all worlds\", representing this immanent Divine creative power, and a \"light that surrounds all worlds\", representing transcendent expressions of Divinity.\n\nThe new doctrines of Isaac Luria in the 16th Century completed the Kabbalistic system of explanation. Lurianic Kabbalah describes the process of \"Tzimtzum\" (צמצום meaning \"Contraction\" or \"Constriction\") in the Kabbalistic theory of creation, where God \"contracted\" his infinite essence in order to allow for a \"conceptual space\" in which a finite, independent world could exist. This has received different later interpretations in Jewish mysticism, from the literal to the metaphorical. In this process, creation unfolds within the Divine reality. Luria offered a daring cosmic theology that explained the reasons for the \"Tzimtzum\", the primordial catastrophe of \"Shevirat Hakelim\" (the \"Breaking of the Vessels\" of the \"Sefirot\" in the first existence), and the messianic \"Tikkun\" (\"Fixing\") of this by every individual through their sanctification of physicality. The concept of \"Tzimtzum\" contains a built-in paradox, as it requires that God be simultaneously transcendent and immanent:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3666302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3666302", "title": "Indian CSICOP", "text": "Indian CSICOP\n\nIndian CSICOP is a well-known rationalist group based at Podanur, Tamil Nadu, India. Founded by Basava Premanand (1930–2009). Indian CSICOP is in the forefront of the rationalist campaigns in India which attempt to expose perceived miracles and to eradicate superstitions.\n\nIndian CSICOP is an affiliate of the US-based skeptical group CSICOP and it publishes \"Indian Skeptic\", a rationalist periodical. It is also affiliated to the Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations, which is an apex body of about 65 rationalist, atheist and organizations aimed at popularization of science among laypersons. It is an associate member of International Humanist and Ethical Union based in London.\n\nOne of the main targets of criticism by the \"Indian Skeptic\" are the miracles and magic of the guru Sathya Sai Baba.\n\n"}
{"id": "24880495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24880495", "title": "Interface segregation principle", "text": "Interface segregation principle\n\nIn the field of software engineering, the interface-segregation principle (ISP) states that no client should be forced to depend on methods it does not use. ISP splits interfaces that are very large into smaller and more specific ones so that clients will only have to know about the methods that are of interest to them. Such shrunken interfaces are also called \"role interface\"s. ISP is intended to keep a system decoupled and thus easier to refactor, change, and redeploy.\nISP is one of the five SOLID principles of object-oriented design, similar to the High Cohesion Principle of GRASP.\n\nWithin object-oriented design, interfaces provide layers of abstraction that facilitate conceptual explanation of the code and create a barrier preventing coupling to dependencies.\n\nAccording to many software experts who have signed the Manifesto for Software Craftsmanship, writing well-crafted and self-explanatory software is almost as important as writing working software. Using interfaces to further describe the intent of the software is often a good idea.\n\nA system may become so coupled at multiple levels that it is no longer possible to make a change in one place without necessitating many additional changes. Using an interface or an abstract class can prevent this side effect.\n\nThe ISP was first used and formulated by Robert C. Martin while consulting for Xerox. Xerox had created a new printer system that could perform a variety of tasks such as stapling and faxing. The software for this system was created from the ground up. As the software grew, making modifications became more and more difficult so that even the smallest change would take a redeployment cycle of an hour, which made development nearly impossible.\n\nThe design problem was that a single Job class was used by almost all of the tasks. Whenever a print job or a stapling job needed to be performed, a call was made to the Job class. This resulted in a 'fat' class with multitudes of methods specific to a variety of different clients. Because of this design, a staple job would know about all the methods of the print job, even though there was no use for them.\n\nThe solution suggested by Martin utilized what is today called the Interface Segregation Principle. Applied to the Xerox software, an interface layer between the Job class and its clients was added using the Dependency Inversion Principle. Instead of having one large Job class, a Staple Job interface or a Print Job interface was created that would be used by the Staple or Print classes, respectively, calling methods of the Job class. Therefore, one interface was created for each job type, which was all implemented by the Job class.\n\nA typical violation of the Interface Segregation Principle is given in Agile Software Development: Principles, Patterns, and Practices in 'ATM Transaction example' and in an article also written by Robert C. Martin specifically about the ISP. This example discusses the User Interface for an ATM, which handles all requests such as a deposit request, or a withdrawal request, and how this interface needs to be segregated into individual and more specific interfaces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23982309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23982309", "title": "JobShopLean", "text": "JobShopLean\n\nJobShopLean is a concept for applying the philosophy of Lean to the type of usually small manufacturing organization known as a job shop. \n\nUnlike continuous (Flow) manufacturing as practised by Toyota, this manufacturing is characterized by skilled hourly employees such as machinists, diemakers, welders, pipefitters, painters, etc. that perform non-repetitive manufacturing operations, often based on them determine the manufacturing processes and sequences. Lean manufacturing is the concept of doing all this as efficiently as possible.\n"}
{"id": "318261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318261", "title": "Koch's giant day gecko", "text": "Koch's giant day gecko\n\nKoch's giant day gecko (\"Phelsuma madagascariensis kochi\" ) is a diurnal subspecies of gecko, a lizard in the family Gekkonidae. The subspecies is native to northwestern and western Madagascar and typically inhabits trees. It feeds on insects and nectar.\n\nThe subspecific name, \"kochi\", is in honor of German ornithologist and herpetologist K.L. Koch of the \"Naturmuseum Senckenberg\" in Frankfurt.\n\nKoch's giant day gecko is often treated as its own species, \"Phelsuma kochi\" .\n\n\"P. m. kochi\" is among the largest living day geckos. It can reach a total length (including tail) of . The body colour is a dark, dull green. A faint red stripe extends from the nostril to the eye. On the back there may be little reddish dots present. The neck and flanks often are light grey. The ventral side is off-white.\n\n\"P. m. kochi\" is widely distributed in northwestern and western Madagascar on the coast and in the inland. It was first discovered in the region around Maevatanana.\n\n\"P. m. kochi\" is often found on different trees such as banana trees where it can be seen basking. It avoids human dwellings. The climate is very dry throughout the year and the temperature can be as high as 40 °C (104 °F).\n\nKoch's giant day gecko feeds on various insects and other invertebrates. It also like to lick soft, sweet fruit, pollen and nectar.\n\nThis subspecies, \"P. m. kochi\", is not quite as quarrelsome and aggressive as \"P. m. madagascariensis\" and \"P. m. grandis\".\n\nThe pairing season for \"P. m. kochi\" is between November and the first weeks of May. During this period, the sexually mature females lay up to 6 pairs of eggs. At a temperature of 28 °C (82 °F), the young will hatch after approximately 63–68 days. The juveniles measure and reach sexual maturity after one year.\n\n\"P. m. kochi\" should be housed in pairs although successful group breeding with one male and several females has been reported. They need a large, well planted terrarium. The temperature should be about 28 °C (82 °F) during the day. The humidity should be maintained around 65%. In captivity, these animals can be fed with crickets, wax moths, fruit flies, mealworms, and houseflies.\n\n"}
{"id": "469304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=469304", "title": "Lattice (order)", "text": "Lattice (order)\n\nA lattice is an abstract structure studied in the mathematical subdisciplines of order theory and abstract algebra. It consists of a partially ordered set in which every two elements have a unique supremum (also called a least upper bound or join) and a unique infimum (also called a greatest lower bound or meet). An example is given by the natural numbers, partially ordered by divisibility, for which the unique supremum is the least common multiple and the unique infimum is the greatest common divisor.\n\nLattices can also be characterized as algebraic structures satisfying certain axiomatic identities. Since the two definitions are equivalent, lattice theory draws on both order theory and universal algebra. Semilattices include lattices, which in turn include Heyting and Boolean algebras. These \"lattice-like\" structures all admit order-theoretic as well as algebraic descriptions.\n\nIf is a partially ordered set (poset), and is an arbitrary subset, then an element is said to be an upper bound of \"S\" if for each . A set may have many upper bounds, or none at all. An upper bound \"u\" of \"S\" is said to be its least upper bound, or join, or supremum, if for each upper bound \"x\" of \"S\". A set need not have a least upper bound, but it cannot have more than one. Dually, is said to be a lower bound of \"S\" if for each . A lower bound \"l\" of \"S\" is said to be its greatest lower bound, or meet, or infimum, if for each lower bound \"x\" of \"S\". A set may have many lower bounds, or none at all, but can have at most one greatest lower bound.\n\nA partially ordered set is called a join-semilattice if each two-element subset has a join (i.e. least upper bound), and is called a meet-semilattice if each two-element subset has a meet (i.e. greatest lower bound), denoted by and respectively. is called a lattice if it is both a join- and a meet-semilattice. \nThis definition makes ∨ and ∧ binary operations. Both operations are monotone with respect to the order: and implies that and .\n\nIt follows by an induction argument that every non-empty finite subset of a lattice has a least upper bound and a greatest lower bound. With additional assumptions, further conclusions may be possible; \"see\" Completeness (order theory) for more discussion of this subject. That article also discusses how one may rephrase the above definition in terms of the existence of suitable Galois connections between related partially ordered sets — an approach of special interest for the category theoretic approach to lattices, and for formal concept analysis.\n\nA bounded lattice is a lattice that additionally has a greatest element (also called maximum, or top element, and denoted by 1, or by formula_1) and a least element (also called minimum, or bottom, denoted by 0 or by formula_2), which satisfy\nEvery lattice can be embedded into a bounded lattice by adding an artificial greatest and least element, and every non-empty finite lattice is bounded, by taking the join (resp., meet) of all elements, denoted by formula_3 (resp.formula_4) where formula_5.\n\nA partially ordered set is a bounded lattice if and only if every finite set of elements (including the empty set) has a join and a meet. For every element \"x\" of a poset it is trivially true (it is a vacuous truth) that \nformula_6 and\nformula_7, and therefore every element of a poset is both an upper bound and a lower bound of the empty set. This implies that the join of an empty set is the least element formula_8, and the meet of the empty set is the greatest element formula_9. This is consistent with the associativity and commutativity of meet and join: the join of a union of finite sets is equal to the join of the joins of the sets, and dually, the meet of a union of finite sets is equal to the meet of the meets of the sets, i.e., for finite subsets \"A\" and \"B\" of a poset \"L\",\n\nand\n\nhold. Taking \"B\" to be the empty set,\n\nand\n\nwhich is consistent with the fact that formula_14.\n\nA lattice element \"y\" is said to cover another element \"x\", if , but there does not exist a \"z\" such that .\nHere, means and .\n\nA lattice is called graded, sometimes ranked (but see Ranked poset for an alternative meaning), if it can be equipped with a rank function \"r\" from \"L\" to ℕ, sometimes to ℤ, compatible with the ordering (so whenever ) such that whenever \"y\" covers \"x\", then . The value of the rank function for a lattice element is called its rank.\n\nGiven a subset of a lattice, , meet and join restrict to partial functions – they are undefined if their value is not in the subset \"H\". The resulting structure on \"H\" is called a . In addition to this extrinsic definition as a subset of some other algebraic structure (a lattice), a partial lattice can also be intrinsically defined as a set with two partial binary operations satisfying certain axioms.\n\nAn algebraic structure , consisting of a set \"L\" and two binary operations ∨, and ∧, on \"L\" is a lattice if the following axiomatic identities hold for all elements \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" of \"L\".\n\nThe following two identities are also usually regarded as axioms, even though they follow from the two absorption laws taken together.\n\nThese axioms assert that both and are semilattices. The absorption laws, the only axioms above in which both meet and join appear, distinguish a lattice from an arbitrary pair of semilattices and assure that the two semilattices interact appropriately. In particular, each semilattice is the dual of the other.\n\nA bounded lattice is an algebraic structure of the form such that is a lattice, 0 (the lattice's bottom) is the identity element for the join operation ∨, and 1 (the lattice's top) is the identity element for the meet operation ∧.\n\n\nSee semilattice for further details.\n\nLattices have some connections to the family of group-like algebraic structures. Because meet and join both commute and associate, a lattice can be viewed as consisting of two commutative semigroups having the same domain. For a bounded lattice, these semigroups are in fact commutative monoids. The absorption law is the only defining identity that is peculiar to lattice theory.\n\nBy commutativity and associativity one can think of join and meet as binary operations that are defined on non-empty finite sets, rather than on elements. In a bounded lattice the empty join and the empty meet can also be defined (as 0 and 1, respectively). This makes bounded lattices somewhat more natural than general lattices, and many authors require all lattices to be bounded.\n\nThe algebraic interpretation of lattices plays an essential role in universal algebra.\n\nAn order-theoretic lattice gives rise to the two binary operations ∨ and ∧. Since the commutative, associative and absorption laws can easily be verified for these operations, they make into a lattice in the algebraic sense.\n\nThe converse is also true. Given an algebraically defined lattice , one can define a partial order ≤ on \"L\" by setting\nfor all elements \"a\" and \"b\" from \"L\". The laws of absorption ensure that both definitions are equivalent:\n\n\"a\" = \"a\" ∧ \"b\" implies \"b\" = \"b\" ∨ (\"b\" ∧ \"a\") = (\"a\" ∧ \"b\") ∨ \"b\" = \"a\" ∨ \"b\"\n\nand dually for the other direction.\n\nOne can now check that the relation ≤ introduced in this way defines a partial ordering within which binary meets and joins are given through the original operations ∨ and ∧.\n\nSince the two definitions of a lattice are equivalent, one may freely invoke aspects of either definition in any way that suits the purpose at hand.\n\n\nFurther examples of lattices are given for each of the additional properties discussed below.\n\nMost partial ordered sets are not lattices, including the following.\n\n\nThe appropriate notion of a morphism between two lattices flows easily from the above algebraic definition. Given two lattices and , a lattice homomorphism from \"L\" to \"M\" is a function such that for all :\n\nThus \"f\" is a homomorphism of the two underlying semilattices. When lattices with more structure are considered, the morphisms should \"respect\" the extra structure, too. In particular, a bounded-lattice homomorphism (usually called just \"lattice homomorphism\") \"f\" between two bounded lattices \"L\" and \"M\" should also have the following property:\n\nIn the order-theoretic formulation, these conditions just state that a homomorphism of lattices is a function preserving binary meets and joins. For bounded lattices, preservation of least and greatest elements is just preservation of join and meet of the empty set.\n\nAny homomorphism of lattices is necessarily monotone with respect to the associated ordering relation; see preservation of limits. The converse is not true: monotonicity by no means implies the required preservation of meets and joins (see pic.9), although an order-preserving bijection is a homomorphism if its inverse is also order-preserving.\n\nGiven the standard definition of isomorphisms as invertible morphisms, a \"lattice isomorphism\" is just a bijective lattice homomorphism. Similarly, a \"lattice endomorphism\" is a lattice homomorphism from a lattice to itself, and a \"lattice automorphism\" is a bijective lattice endomorphism. Lattices and their homomorphisms form a category.\n\nA \"sublattice\" of a lattice \"L\" is a nonempty subset of \"L\" that is a lattice with the same meet and join operations as \"L\". That is, if \"L\" is a lattice and is a subset of \"L\" such that for every pair of elements \"a\", \"b\" in \"M\" both and are in \"M\", then \"M\" is a sublattice of \"L\".\n\nA sublattice \"M\" of a lattice \"L\" is a \"convex sublattice\" of \"L\", if and \"x\", \"y\" in \"M\" implies that \"z\" belongs to \"M\", for all elements \"x\", \"y\", \"z\" in \"L\".\n\nWe now introduce a number of important properties that lead to interesting special classes of lattices. One, boundedness, has already been discussed.\n\nA poset is called a complete lattice if \"all\" its subsets have both a join and a meet. In particular, every complete lattice is a bounded lattice. While bounded lattice homomorphisms in general preserve only finite joins and meets, complete lattice homomorphisms are required to preserve arbitrary joins and meets.\n\nEvery poset that is a complete semilattice is also a complete lattice. Related to this result is the interesting phenomenon that there are various competing notions of homomorphism for this class of posets, depending on whether they are seen as complete lattices, complete join-semilattices, complete meet-semilattices, or as join-complete or meet-complete lattices.\n\nNote that \"partial lattice\" is not the opposite of \"complete lattice\" – rather, \"partial lattice\", \"lattice\", and \"complete lattice\" are increasingly restrictive definitions.\n\nA conditionally complete lattice is a lattice in which every \"nonempty\" subset \"that has an upper bound\" has a join (i.e., a least upper bound). Such lattices provide the most direct generalization of the completeness axiom of the real numbers. A conditionally complete lattice is either a complete lattice, or a complete lattice without its maximum element 1, its minimum element 0, or both.\n\nSince lattices come with two binary operations, it is natural to ask whether one of them distributes over the other, i.e. whether one or the other of the following dual laws holds for every three elements \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" of \"L\":\n\n\nA lattice that satisfies the first or, equivalently (as it turns out), the second axiom, is called a distributive lattice.\nThe only non-distributive lattices with fewer than 6 elements are called M and N; they are shown in picture 10 and 11, respectively. A lattice is distributive if and only if it doesn't have a sublattice isomorphic to M or N. Each distributive lattice is isomorphic to a lattice of sets (with union and intersection as join and meet, respectively).\n\nFor an overview of stronger notions of distributivity which are appropriate for complete lattices and which are used to define more special classes of lattices such as frames and completely distributive lattices, see distributivity in order theory.\n\nFor some applications the distributivity condition is too strong, and the following weaker property is often useful. A lattice is modular if, for all elements \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" of \"L\", the following identity holds.\nThis condition is equivalent to the following axiom.\nA lattice is modular if and only if it doesn't have a sublattice isomorphic to N (shown in pic.11). \nBesides distributive lattices, examples of modular lattices are the lattice of two-sided ideals of a ring, the lattice of submodules of a module, and the lattice of normal subgroups of a group. The set of first-order terms with the ordering \"is more specific than\" is a non-modular lattice used in automated reasoning.\n\nA finite lattice is modular if and only if it is both upper and lower semimodular. For a graded lattice, (upper) semimodularity is equivalent to the following condition on the rank function \"r\":\nAnother equivalent (for graded lattices) condition is Birkhoff's condition:\n\nA lattice is called lower semimodular if its dual is semimodular. For finite lattices this means that the previous conditions hold with ∨ and ∧ exchanged, \"covers\" exchanged with \"is covered by\", and inequalities reversed.\n\nIn domain theory, it is natural to seek to approximate the elements in a partial order by \"much simpler\" elements. This leads to the class of continuous posets, consisting of posets where every element can be obtained as the supremum of a directed set of elements that are way-below the element. If one can additionally restrict these to the compact elements of a poset for obtaining these directed sets, then the poset is even algebraic. Both concepts can be applied to lattices as follows:\n\n\nBoth of these classes have interesting properties. For example, continuous lattices can be characterized as algebraic structures (with infinitary operations) satisfying certain identities. While such a characterization is not known for algebraic lattices, they can be described \"syntactically\" via Scott information systems.\n\nLet \"L\" be a bounded lattice with greatest element 1 and least element 0. Two elements \"x\" and \"y\" of \"L\" are complements of each other if and only if:\n\nIn general, some elements of a bounded lattice might not have a complement, and others might have more than one complement. For example, the set {0, ½, 1} with its usual ordering is a bounded lattice, and ½ does not have a complement. In the bounded lattice N, the element \"a\" has two complements, viz. \"b\" and \"c\" (see Pic.11). A bounded lattice for which every element has a complement is called a complemented lattice. \n\nA complemented lattice that is also distributive is a Boolean algebra. For a distributive lattice, the complement of \"x\", when it exists, is unique.\n\nIn the case the complement is unique, we write and equivalently, . The corresponding unary operation over \"L\", called complementation, introduces an analogue of logical negation into lattice theory.\n\nHeyting algebras are an example of distributive lattices where some members might be lacking complements. Every element \"x\" of a Heyting algebra has, on the other hand, a \"pseudo-complement\", also denoted ¬\"x\". The pseudo-complement is the greatest element \"y\" such that . If the pseudo-complement of every element of a Heyting algebra is in fact a complement, then the Heyting algebra is in fact a Boolean algebra.\n\nA chain from \"x\" to \"x\" is a set formula_15, where formula_16.\nThe length of this chain is \"n\", or one less than its number of elements. A chain is maximal if \"x\" covers \"x\" \nfor all .\n\nIf for any pair, \"x\" and \"y\", where , all maximal chains from \"x\" to \"y\" have the same length, then the lattice is said to satisfy the Jordan–Dedekind chain condition.\n\nAny set \"X\" may be used to generate the free semilattice \"FX\". The free semilattice is defined to consist of all of the finite subsets of \"X\", with the semilattice operation given by ordinary set union. The free semilattice has the universal property. For the free lattice over a set \"X\", Whitman gave a construction based on polynomials over \"X\"s members.\n\nWe now define some order-theoretic notions of importance to lattice theory. In the following, let \"x\" be an element of some lattice \"L\". If \"L\" has a bottom element 0, is sometimes required. \"x\" is called:\n\nLet \"L\" have a bottom element 0. An element \"x\" of \"L\" is an atom if and there exists no element \"y\" of \"L\" such that . Then \"L\" is called:\n\nThe notions of ideals and the dual notion of filters refer to particular kinds of subsets of a partially ordered set, and are therefore important for lattice theory. Details can be found in the respective entries.\n\n\n\"Note that in many applications the sets are only partial lattices: not every pair of elements has a meet or join.\"\n\nMonographs available free online:\n\nElementary texts recommended for those with limited mathematical maturity:\n\nThe standard contemporary introductory text, somewhat harder than the above:\n\nAdvanced monographs:\n\nOn free lattices:\n\nOn the history of lattice theory:\n\nOn applications of lattice theory:\n\nOn applications of lattice theory in geography and spatial analysis:\n\n"}
{"id": "8932409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8932409", "title": "Law in North America", "text": "Law in North America\n\nThe law of North America is diverse and influential. The law of the United States has worldwide renown, in its codified constitution, and bill of rights, while the law of Cuba differs vastly in its regulation of private property. The first court of justice was established in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada in 1615 by Sir Richard Whitbourne as a court of admiralty at the future site of Trinity, Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2075414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2075414", "title": "Mental state", "text": "Mental state\n\nA mental state is a state of mind that an agent is in. Most simplistically, a mental state is a mental condition. It is a relation that connects the agent with a proposition. Several of these states are a combination of mental representations and propositional attitudes. There are several paradigmatic states of mind that an agent has: love, hate, pleasure and pain, and attitudes toward propositions such as: believing that, conceiving that, hoping and fearing that, etc.\n\nDiscussions about mental states can be found in many areas of study.\n\nIn cognitive psychology and the philosophy of mind, a mental state is a kind of hypothetical state that corresponds to thinking and feeling, and consists of a conglomeration of mental representations and propositional attitudes. Several theories in philosophy and psychology try to determine the relationship between the agent's mental state and a proposition.\n\nInstead of looking into what a mental state is, in itself, clinical psychology and psychiatry determine a person's mental health through a mental status examination.\n\nMental states also include attitudes towards propositions, of which there are at least two—factive, non-factive, both of which entail the mental state of acquaintance. To be acquainted with a proposition is to understand its meaning and be able to entertain it. The proposition can be true or false, and acquaintance requires no specific attitude towards that truth or falsity. Factive attitudes include those mental states that are attached to the truth of the proposition—i.e. the proposition entails truth. Some factive mental states include \"perceiving that\", \"remembering that\", \"regretting that\", and (more controversially) \"knowing that\". Non-factive attitudes do not entail the truth of the propositions to which they are attached. That is, one can be in one of these mental states and the proposition can be false. An example of a non-factive attitude is believing—you can believe a false proposition and you can believe a true proposition. Since you have the possibility of both, such mental states do not entail truth, and therefore, are not factive. However, belief does entail an attitude of assent toward the presumed truth of the proposition (whether or not it's so), making it and other non-factive attitudes different than mere acquaintance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1886956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886956", "title": "Mytheme", "text": "Mytheme\n\nIn structuralism-influenced studies of mythology, a mytheme is a fundamental generic unit of narrative structure (typically involving a relationship between a character, an event, and a theme) from which myths are thought to be constructed—a minimal unit that is always found shared with other, related mythemes and reassembled in various ways (\"bundled\") or linked in more complicated relationships. For example, the myths of Adonis and Osiris share several elements, leading some scholars to conclude that they share a source, i.e. images passed down in cultures or from one to another, being ascribed new interpretations of the action depicted, as well as new names in various readings of icons.\n\nClaude Lévi-Strauss (1908–2009), who gave the term wide circulation, wrote, \"If one wants to establish a parallel between structural linguistics and the structural analysis of myths, the correspondence is established, not between mytheme and word but between mytheme and phoneme.\"\n\nThe structuralist analyzer of folk tales, Vladimir Propp, treated the individual tale as the unit of analysis. The unitary mytheme, by contrast, is the equivalent in myth of the phonemes, morphemes, and sememes into which structural linguistics divides language, the smallest possible units of sound, structure, and meaning (respectively) within a language system.\n\nIn the 1950s Claude Lévi-Strauss first adapted this technique of language analysis to analytic myth criticism. In his work on the myth systems of primitive tribes, working from the analogy of language structure, he adopted the French term \"mythème\", with the assertion that the system of meaning within mythic utterances parallels closely that of a language system. Roman Jakobson varies this idea, treating mythemes as concepts or phonemes which have no significance in themselves but whose significance might be shown by sociological analysis.\n\nPhilosophers such as Daniel Dennett have also used the term \"mytheme\".\n\nLev Manovich uses the terms \"seme\" and \"mytheme\" in his book, \"The Language of New Media\", to describe aspects of culture that computer images enter into dialog with.\n\n"}
{"id": "47709852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47709852", "title": "National Campus Climate Survey", "text": "National Campus Climate Survey\n\nThe National Campus Climate Survey (NCCS) is a service offered to institutions of higher education in the United States who would like to better understand and improve their campus climate with regards to sexual assault and related topics. The study is designed to:\n\n\nThe National Campus Climate Survey was developed at the University of Michigan in collaboration with a local survey research firm, SoundRocket (formerly known as Survey Sciences Group, LLC)\n\nThe study was developed in response to the report from the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault.\n\nThe National Campus Climate Survey launched its service and website (www.nationalcampusclimatesurvey.com) on September 1, 2015 and is currently enrolling institutions of higher education into the Spring 2016 data collection.\n\nThe core NCCS design uses a sample survey approach rather than a census of all students. (However, schools will have the option to conduct a census if they wish.) A randomly selected sample of students (undergraduates and graduates) allows the study to make scientifically based inferences to the population as a whole, helps focus finite research resources on successfully contacting and encouraging the participation of the broadest group of students, and reduces survey burden on an often over-surveyed population.\n\nThe NCCS will request sample data from university registrars (i.e. gender, race/ethnicity, year in school, on/off campus residence) in addition to contact information to allow for nonresponse analyses to be conducted. If deemed appropriate, the NCCS may generate nonresponse bias weights for the final analytic data file.\n\nThe NCCS will be implemented as a web-based, mobile-optimized survey, to ensure the data collected is of highest quality. Logical branching and filters will be used to tailor the questionnaire appropriately for each individual. Data collection will include at least four email contacts, and may include mailed prenotification letters, telephone calls, and in-person visits (depending on the service level selected). Data will be collected between January and April, 2016.\n\nThe NCCS has a three-tiered service structure, designed to meet the specific needs of the local campus.\n\nMore specifics regarding the Tier services are available on the study website service levels page.\n\nThe survey instrument and methodology were designed by a team, led by the University of Michigan’s Survey Research Center and including representatives from Student Life at the University of Michigan, the Office of the General Counsel at the University of Michigan, and SoundRocket. The team designed the survey measurements to include both the prevalence and incidence of sexual assault on campus, as well as perceptions of campus climate. The methodological team drew heavily upon behavioral-specific questions from the Sexual Experiences Survey to measure the prevalence and incidence of sexual assault, because such questions have been researched and validated. (1) The design features of this survey have demonstrated effectiveness in minimizing response errors in web surveys, as well as minimizing overall respondent burden. (2) The average length for completion of the survey instrument is less than 15 minutes. \n\nAn early draft of the survey instrument is available at the University of Michigan 2015 Campus Climate Surveys Regarding Sexual Misconduct page.\n"}
{"id": "48877458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48877458", "title": "Opinion corridor", "text": "Opinion corridor\n\nOpinion corridor (, ) refers to a sociopolitical phenomenon that has been observed during the beginning of the 21st century in Sweden, and to some extent also in Norway. The expression itself was originally used in 2013 by , professor in political science at the University of Gothenburg, as a metaphor for the limits of what's commonly accepted to debate. \n\nThe concept is similar to the Overton window, which assumes a sliding scale of legitimate political conversation, and to Hallin's spheres, which assumes that the press implicitly groups issues into questions of wide consensus, legitimate controversy, and deviance. The Swedish Language Council has included the word \"åsiktskorridor\" in its 2014 list of neologisms.\n\nIn December 2013, political scientist described how he perceived that the space for freedom of opinion had been tightened in Swedish debates. He provided some examples of opinions that were rarely expressed despite being common throughout the population:\n\n\nOscarsson concluded with calling for \"a more moderate and respectful attitude from policymakers\".\n\nIn February 2015, Expressen editor published an apology for being part of \"constructing a corridor that prevented a constructive debate about migration and integration\". She wrote that it was something that she started doing around 2002, when language tests were being debated and the Sweden Democrats started to become more influential. She was also afraid that Sweden's political climate would become more similar to that of Denmark.\n\nErik Helmersson from Dagens Nyheter wrote that Sweden has many opinion corridors in which people rarely question the norms within the group. He blames the Swedish \"culture of consensus\" and that the social cost for presenting an opposing view is too high. He also praises director Stina Oscarson for her new expression \"test speech\" and states that it's important to allow people to try new ways of thinking without being smothered by blame and insults.\n\nAlice Teodorescu has stated that she wants to \"tear down the opinion corridor\" and has made comparisons with totalitarian systems.\n\nDuring the first quarter of 2015, the statistical institute conducted a survey named \"Who dares to speak about their opinions?\" which had a sample size of 4348. They observed the following trends:\n\n\nCouncil politician Per Altenberg from the Liberals, while not addressing the research by professor Oscarsson, denied the existence of the opinion corridor and maintained that the corridor should not be discussed in his opinion piece entitled \"There is no opinion corridor\".\n\nColumnist Malin Ullgren from Dagens Nyheter, while not addressing the research by professor Oscarsson, condemns the usage of the term, and describes it as a rhethorical device the far right uses to undermine the stability of society. She states that right-wing extremists have spent years on \"systematic erosion of the limits of decency\" to further their agendas and that the far right freely express their agendas.\n"}
{"id": "52268963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52268963", "title": "Oscar Clark Carr Jr.", "text": "Oscar Clark Carr Jr.\n\nOscar Clark Carr Jr. (? – November 5, 1977) was a civil rights activist and leading member of the American Episcopal Church.\n\nOscar Carr was born in Clarksdale, Mississippi. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy and served as a naval officer for three years before returning home to his family cotton farm. Carr credited the \"racial militancy\" of Governor Ross Barnett of Mississippi and Governor George Wallace of Alabama for spurring his interest in civil rights. Working with state NAACP leader Aaron Henry, he started an anti-poverty community action group in Coahoma county. Together they also enrolled 6,000 children in the Head Start program.\n\nIn 1968, he was co-director — with rights leader Charles Evers — of the Mississippi presidential campaign of Senator Robert Kennedy. Later the same year he was a key member of the Loyal Democrats of Mississippi delegation which successfully challenged the regular delegation from the state for their seats at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago.\n\nIn 1971, Carr became the Episcopal Church's first executive for stewardship and development.\n\nHe died of cancer on November 5, 1977 at age the age of 54. Over 500 people attended his funeral at the Church of the Heavenly Rest in New York City on 8 November, which was presided over by Bishop Paul Moore.\n\n"}
{"id": "33690397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33690397", "title": "Personhood", "text": "Personhood\n\nPersonhood is the status of being a person. Defining personhood is a controversial topic in philosophy and law and is closely tied with legal and political concepts of citizenship, equality, and liberty. According to law, only a natural person or legal personality has rights, protections, privileges, responsibilities, and legal liability.\n\nPersonhood continues to be a topic of international debate and has been questioned critically during the abolition of human and nonhuman slavery, in theology, in debates about abortion and in fetal rights and/or reproductive rights, in animal rights activism, in theology and ontology, in ethical theory, and in debates about corporate personhood and the beginning of human personhood.\n\nProcesses through which personhood is recognized socially and legally vary cross-culturally, demonstrating that notions of personhood are not universal. Anthropologist Beth Conklin has shown how personhood is tied to social relations among the Wari' people of Rondônia, Brazil. Bruce Knauft's studies of the Gebusi people of Papua New Guinea depict a context in which individuals become persons incrementally, again through social relations. Likewise, Jane C. Goodale has also examined the construction of personhood in Papua New Guinea.\n\nCapacities or attributes common to definitions of personhood can include human nature, agency, self-awareness, a notion of the past and future, and the possession of rights and duties, among others. However, the concept of a person is difficult to define in a way that is universally accepted, due to its historical and cultural variability and the controversies surrounding its use in some contexts.\n\nIn philosophy, the word \"person\" may refer to various concepts. According to the \"naturalist\" epistemological tradition, from Descartes through Locke and Hume, the term may designate any human (or non-human) agent who: (1) possesses continuous consciousness over time; and (2) who is therefore capable of framing representations about the world, formulating plans and acting on them.\n\nAccording to Charles Taylor, the problem with the naturalist view is that it depends solely on a \"performance criterion\" to determine what is an agent. Thus, other things (e.g. machines or animals) that exhibit \"similarly complex adaptive behaviour\" could not be distinguished from persons. Instead, Taylor proposes a significance-based view of personhood:\n\nOthers, such as American Philosopher Francis J. Beckwith, argue that personhood is not linked to function at all, but rather that it is the underlying personal unity of the individual.\n\nPhilosopher J. P. Moreland clarifies this point:\n\nHarry G. Frankfurt writes that, \"What philosophers have lately come to accept as analysis of the concept of a person is not actually analysis of \"that\" concept at all.\" He suggests that the concept of a person is intimately connected to free will, and describes the structure of human volition according to first- and second-order desires:\n\nAccording to Nikolas Kompridis, there might also be an intersubjective, or interpersonal, basis to personhood:\n\nOther philosophers have defined persons in different ways. Boethius gives the definition of \"person\" as \"an individual substance of a rational nature\" (\"Naturæ rationalis individua substantia\"). Mary Midgley defines a “person” as being a conscious, thinking being, which knows that it is a person (self-awareness).\n\nPhilosopher Thomas I. White argues that the criteria for a person are as follows: (1) is alive, (2) is aware, (3) feels positive and negative sensations, (4) has emotions, (5) has a sense of self, (6) controls its own behaviour, (7) recognises other persons and treats them appropriately, and (8) has a variety of sophisticated cognitive abilities. While many of White's criteria are somewhat anthropocentric, some animals such as dolphins would still be considered persons. Some animal rights groups have also championed recognition for animals as \"persons\".\n\nAnother approach to personhood, Paradigm Case Formulation, used in Descriptive Psychology and developed by Peter Ossorio, involves the four interrelated concepts of 1) The Individual Person, 2) Deliberate Action, 3) Reality and the Real World, and 4) Language or Verbal Behavior. All four concepts require full articulation for any one of them to be fully intelligible. More specifically, a Person is an individual whose history is, paradigmatically, a history of Deliberate Action in a Dramaturgical pattern. Deliberate Action is a form of behavior in which a person (a) engages in an Intentional Action, (b) is cognizant of that, and (c) has chosen to do that. A person is not always engaged in a deliberate action but has the eligibility to do so. A human being is an individual who is both a person and a specimen of Homo sapiens. Since persons are deliberate actors, they also employ hedonic, prudent, aesthetic and ethical reasons when selecting, choosing or deciding on a course of action. As part of our \"social contract\" we expect that the typical person can make use of all four of these motivational perspectives. Individual persons will weigh these motives in a manner that reflects their personal characteristics. That life is lived in a “dramaturgical” pattern is to say that people make sense, that their lives have patterns of significance. The paradigm case allows for nonhuman persons, potential persons, nascent persons, manufactured persons, former persons, \"deficit case\" persons, and \"primitive\" persons. By using a paradigm case methodology, different observers can point to where they agree and where they disagree about whether an entity qualifies as a person.\n\nA person is recognized by law as such, not because they are human, but because rights and duties are ascribed to them. The person is the legal subject or substance of which the rights and duties are attributes. An individual human being considered to be having such attributes is what lawyers call a \"natural person.\" According to Black's Law Dictionary, a person is:\n\nIn Federal law, the concept of legal personhood is formalized by statute (1 USC §8) as a \"member of the species homo sapiens who is born alive at any stage of development.\"\n\nAs an application of social psychology and other disciplines, phenomena such as the \"perception\" and \"attribution\" of personhood have been scientifically studied. Typical questions addressed in social psychology are the accuracy of attribution, processes of perception and the formation of bias. Various other scientific/medical disciplines address the myriad of issues in the development of personality.\n\nVarious specific debates focus on questions about the personhood of different classes of entities.\n\nThe beginning of human personhood is a concept long debated by religion and philosophy. With respect to abortion, 'personhood' is the status of a human being having individual human rights. The term was used by Justice Blackmun in \"Roe v. Wade\".\n\nA political movement in the United States seeks to define the beginning of human personhood as starting from the moment of fertilization with the result being that abortion, as well as forms of birth control that act to deprive the human embryo of necessary sustenance in implantation, could become illegal. Supporters of the movement also state that it would have some effect on the practice of in-vitro fertilization (IVF), but would not lead to the practice being outlawed. Jonathan F. Will says that the personhood framework could produce significant restrictions on IVF to the extent that reproductive clinics find it impossible to provide the services.\n\nA representative organization within this movement is Personhood USA, a Colorado-based umbrella group with a number of state-level affiliates, which describes itself as a nonprofit Christian ministry. and seeks to ban abortion. Personhood USA was co-founded by Cal Zastrow and Keith Mason in 2008 following the Colorado for Equal Rights campaign to enact a state constitutional personhood amendment.\n\nProponents of the movement regard personhood as an attempt to directly challenge the \"Roe v. Wade\" U.S. Supreme Court decision, thus filling a legal void left by Justice Harry Blackmun in the majority opinion when he wrote: “If this suggestion of personhood is established, the appellant’s case, of course, collapses, for the fetus’ right to life would then be guaranteed specifically by the Amendment.”\n\nSome medical organizations have described the potential effects of personhood legislation as potentially harmful to patients and the practice of medicine, particularly in the cases of ectopic and molar pregnancy.\n\nSusan Bordo has suggested that the focus on the issue of personhood in abortion debates has often been a means for depriving women of their rights. She writes that \"the legal double standard concerning the bodily integrity of pregnant and nonpregnant bodies, the construction of women as fetal incubators, the bestowal of 'super-subject' status to the fetus, and the emergence of a father's-rights ideology\" demonstrate \"that the current terms of the abortion debate – as a contest between fetal claims to personhood and women's right to choose – are limited and misleading.\"\n\nOthers, such as Colleen Carroll Campbell, say that the personhood movement is a natural progression of society in protecting the equal rights of all members of the human species. She writes, “The basic philosophical premise behind these [personhood] amendments is eminently reasonable. And the alternative on offer – which severs humanity from personhood – is fraught with peril. If being human is not enough to entitle one to human rights, then the very concept of human rights loses meaning. And all of us — born and unborn, strong and weak, young and old — someday will find ourselves on the wrong end of that cruel measuring stick.\"\n\nFather Frank Pavone agrees, adding, “Nor is this a dispute about the state imposing a religious or philosophical view. After all, your life and mine are not protected because of some religious or philosophical belief that others are required to have about us. More accurately, the law protects us precisely in spite of the beliefs of others who, in their own worldview, may not value our lives. …To support Roe vs. Wade is not merely to allow a medical procedure. It is to acknowledge that the government has the power to say who is a person and who is not. Who, then, is to limit the groups to whom it is applied? This is what makes “personhood” such an important public policy issue.\n\nThe Vatican has recently been advancing a human exceptionalist understanding of personhood theory. Catechism 2270 reads: “Human life must be respected and protected absolutely from the moment of conception. From the first moment of his existence, a human being must be recognized as having the rights of a person—among which is the inviolable right of every innocent being to life.”\n\nIn March 2007 Georgia became the first state in the nation to introduce a legislative resolution to amend the state constitution to define and recognize the personhood of the pre-born. The Georgia Catholic Conference and National Right to Life supported the effort and it failed to attract a super majority in both chambers in order to be placed on the ballot. Georgia legislators have filed a personhood resolution every session since 2007. In May 2008 Georgia Right to Life hosted the first nationwide Personhood Symposium targeting pro-life activists. This symposium was instrumental in spawning the group Personhood USA and the various state personhood efforts that followed. Voters in 46 Georgia counties approved personhood during the 2010 primary election with 75% in favor of a non-binding resolution declaring the equal rights of all human beings from conception. During the 2012 Republican primary a similar question was placed on the ballot statewide and passed with a super-majority (66%) of the vote in 158 of 159 counties.\n\nThe summer of 2008 a citizen initiated amendment was proposed for the Colorado constitution. Three attempts to enact the from-fertilization definition of personhood into U.S. state constitutions via referenda have failed. Following two attempts to enact similar changes in Colorado in 2008 and 2010, a 2011 initiative to amend the state constitution by referendum in the state of Mississippi also failed to gain approval with around 58% of voters disapproving. In an interview after the referendum, Mason ascribed the failure of the initiative to a political campaign run by Planned Parenthood.\n\nPersonhood proponents in Oklahoma sought to amend the state constitution to define personhood as beginning at conception. The state Supreme Court, citing the U.S. Supreme Court's 1992 decision in \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\", ruled in April 2012 that the proposed amendment was unconstitutional under the federal Constitution and blocked inclusion of the referendum question on the ballot. In October 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the state Supreme Court's ruling.\n\nIn 2006, a 16-year-old girl was charged in Mississippi with murder for the still-birth of her daughter on the basis that the girl had smoked cocaine while pregnant. These charges were later dismissed.\n\nIn 1983, the people of Ireland added the Eighth Amendment to their constitution that “acknowledges the right to life of the unborn and, with due regard to the equal right to life of the mother, guarantees in its laws to respect, and, as far as practicable, by its laws to defend and vindicate that right.”\n\nIn 1920, with the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, women became protected against discrimination in their right to vote in the United States. In 1971, the US Supreme Court ruled in \"Reed v. Reed\" that the 14th amendment applies to women, as they are \"persons\" according to the US Constitution. In 2011, Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia argued that women do not have equal protection under the 14th amendment as \"persons\"\nsaying that the Constitution's use of the gender-neutral term \"Person\" means that the Constitution does not require discrimination on the basis of sex, but also does not prohibit such discrimination; he said \"Nobody ever thought that that's what it meant. Nobody ever voted for that. Many others, including law professor Jack Balkin disagree with this assertion. Balkin states that, at a minimum \"the fourteenth amendment was intended to prohibit some forms of sex discrimination-- discrimination in basic civil rights against single women.\" Many local marriage laws at the time the Fourteenth Amendment was ratified (as well as when the original Constitution was ratified) had concepts of coverture and \"head-and-master\", which meant that women legally lost rights, including rights to ownership of property and other rights of adult participation in the political economy upon marriage; single women retained these rights, however, and voted in some jurisdictions. Also, other commentators have noted that some people who ratified the Constitution in 1787 in other contemporaneous contexts ratified state level Constitutions that saw women as Persons, required to be treated as such, including in rights such as voting. The 17th and 18th Century Quaker concept of Personhood most certainly applied to women and the prevalence of Quakers in the population of several colonies, such as New Jersey and Pennsylvania at the time the original Constitution was drafted and ratified likely influenced the use of the term \"Person\" in the Constitution rather than the term \"Man\" used in the Declaration of Independence and in the contemporaneously drafted French Constitution of 1791. The concept of personhood beginning at conception gives issues to women. Daniel Fincke states \"Applying the logic to abortion she argues that an involuntarily pregnant woman has the right to refuse to let her body be used by the fetus even were we to reason that the fetus has a right to life.\" The personhood movement may cause many more issues that just a women's right to choose. Some fetal homicide laws have caused women to be sentenced to jail time for suspected drug use during her pregnancy that ended in a miscarriage, like the Alabama women who was sentenced to ten years for her suspected drug use.\n\nIn 1772, Somersett's Case determined that slavery was unsupported by law in England and Wales, but not elsewhere in the British Empire. In 1868, under the 14th Amendment, black men in the United States became citizens. In 1870, under the 15th Amendment, black men got the right to vote.\n\nIn 1853, Sojourner Truth became famous for asking \"Ain't I a Woman?\" and after slavery was abolished, black men continued to fight for personhood by claiming, \"I Am A Man!\"\n\nThe legal definition of persons may include or exclude children depending on the context. In the US, regarding liability, children or minors are not legally persons because they do not satisfy the requirements for personhood under the law. However, regarding protection under the law, the US Born-Alive Infants Protection Act of 2002 provides a legal structure that those born at any gestational stage that are either breathing, have heartbeat, umbilical cord pulsation, or any voluntary muscle movement are living, individual human persons.\n\nSome philosophers and those involved in animal welfare, ethology, the rights of animals, and related subjects, consider that certain animals should also be considered to be persons and thus granted legal personhood. Commonly named species in this context include the great apes, cetaceans, and elephants, because of their apparent intelligence and intricate social rules. The idea of extending personhood to all animals has the support of legal scholars such as Alan Dershowitz and Laurence Tribe of Harvard Law School, and animal law courses are now taught in 92 out of 180 law schools in the United States. On May 9, 2008, Columbia University Press published Animals as Persons: Essays on the Abolition of Animal Exploitation by Professor Gary L. Francione of Rutgers University School of Law, a collection of writings that summarizes his work to date and makes the case for non-human animals as persons.\n\nSome proponents of human exceptionalism (also referred to by its critics as speciesism or human supremacism) have countered that we must institute a strict demarcation of personhood based on species membership in order to avoid the horrors of genocide (based on propaganda dehumanizing one or more ethnicities) or the injustices of forced sterilization (as occurred in many countries to people with low I.Q. scores and prisoners).\n\nOther theorists attempt to demarcate between degrees of personhood. For example, Peter Singer's two-tiered account distinguishes between basic sentience and the higher standard of self-consciousness which constitutes personhood. Wynn Schwartz has offered a Paradigm Case Formulation of Persons as a format allowing judges to identify qualities of personhood in different entities. Julian Friedland has advanced a seven-tiered account based on cognitive capacity and linguistic mastery. Amanda Stoel suggested that rights should be granted based on a scale of degrees of personhood, allowing entities currently denied any right to be recognized some rights, but not as many.\n\nIn 1992, Switzerland amended its constitution to recognize animals as \"beings\" and not \"things\". A decade later, Germany guaranteed rights to animals in a 2002 amendment to its constitution, becoming the first European Union member to do so. New Zealand granted basic rights to five great ape species in 1999. Their use is now forbidden in research, testing or teaching. In 2007, the parliament of the Balearic Islands, an autonomous province of Spain, passed the world's first legislation granting legal rights to all great apes.\n\nIn 2013, India's Ministry of Forests and Environment banned the importation or capture of cetaceans (whales and dolphins) for entertainment, exhibition, or interaction purposes, on the basis that \"cetaceans in general are highly intelligent and sensitive\" and that it \"is morally unacceptable to keep them captive for entertainment.\" It noted that \"various scientists\" have argued they should be seen as \"non-human persons\" with commensurate rights, but did not take an official position on this, and indeed did not have the legal authority to do so.\n\nIn 2014, a hybrid, zoo-born orangutan named Sandra was termed by the court in Argentina as a \"non-human subject\" in an unsuccessful habeas corpus case regarding the release of the orangutan from captivity at the Buenos Aires zoo. The status of the orangutan as a \"non-human subject\" needs to be clarified by the court. Court cases relevant to this orangutan are continuing in 2015.\n\nIn 2015, for the first time, two chimpanzees, Hercules and Leo, were thought to be \"legal persons,\" having been granted a writ of habeas corpus. This meant their detainer, Stony Brook University, had to provide a legally sufficient reason for their imprisonment. This view was rejected and the writ was reversed by the officiating judge shortly thereafter.\n\nSpeculatively, there are several other likely categories of beings where personhood is at issue.\n\nIf alien life were found to exist, under what circumstances would they be counted as \"persons\"? Do we have to consider any \"willing and communicative (capable to register its own will) autonomous body\" in the universe, no matter the species, an individual (a person)? Do they deserve equal rights with the human race?\n\nIf artificial intelligences, intelligent and self-aware system of hardware and software, are eventually created, what criteria would determine their personhood? Likewise, at what point would human-created biological life achieve personhood?\n\nThe theoretical landscape of personhood theory has been altered recently by controversy in the bioethics community concerning an emerging community of scholars, researchers, and activists identifying with an explicitly transhumanist position, which supports morphological freedom, even if a person changed so much as to no longer be considered a member of the human species. For example, how much of a human can be artificially replaced before one loses their personhood? If people are considered persons because of their brain, then what if the brain's thought patterns, memories and other attributes could be transposed into a device? Would the patient still be considered a person after the operation?\n\nToday, in statutory and corporate law, certain social constructs are legally considered persons. In many jurisdictions, some corporations and other legal entities are considered legal persons with standing to sue or be sued in court. This is known as legal or corporate personhood.\n\nIn 1819, the US Supreme Court ruled in \"Dartmouth College v. Woodward\", that corporations have the same rights as natural persons to enforce contracts.\n\nIn 2006, Bolivia passed a law recognizing the rights of nature \"to not be affected by mega-infrastructure and development projects that affect the balance of ecosystems and the local inhabitant communities\".\n\nIn 2008, Ecuador approved a constitution to recognize that nature \"...has the right to exist, persist, maintain and regenerate its vital cycles, structure, functions and its processes in evolution.\"\nThe Whanganui River of New Zealand is revered by the local Māori people as \"Te Awa Tupua\", sometimes translated as \"an integrated, living whole\". Efforts to grant it special legal protection have been pursued by the Whanganui iwi since the 1870s. In 2012, an agreement to grant legal personhood to the river was signed between the New Zealand government and the Whanganui River Māori Trust. One guardian from the Crown and one from the Whanganui are responsible for protecting the river.\nIn 2017, court in the northern Indian state of Uttarakhand recognized the Ganges and Yamuna as legal persons. The judges cited Whanganui river in New Zealand as precedent for the action.\n\nIn animistic religion, animals, plants, and other entities may be persons or deities.\n\nChristianity is the first philosophical system to use the word \"person\" in its modern sense. The word \"persona\" was transformed from its theater use into a term with strict technical theological meaning by Tertullian in his work, \"Adversus Praxean\" (\"Against Praxeas\"), in order to distinguish the three \"persons\" of the Trinity. Subsequently, Boethius refined the word to mean \"an individual substance of a rational nature.\" This can be re-stated as \"that which possesses an intellect and a will.\" Thus, the word \"person\" was originally a theological term created and defined by Christians to explain Christian theological concepts.\n\n"}
{"id": "25706963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25706963", "title": "Philosophical razor", "text": "Philosophical razor\n\nIn philosophy, a \"razor\" is a principle or rule of thumb that allows one to eliminate (\"shave off\") unlikely explanations for a phenomenon, or avoid unnecessary actions.\n\nRazors include:\n\n"}
{"id": "233833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233833", "title": "Pontifex (project)", "text": "Pontifex (project)\n\nPONTIFEX (Planning Of Non-specific Transportation by an Intelligent Fleet EXpert) was a mid-1980s project that introduced a novel approach to complex aircraft fleet scheduling, partially funded by the European Commission's Strategic Programme for R&D in Information Technology.\n\nSince the mathematical problems stemming from nontrivial fleet scheduling easily become computationally unsolvable, the PONTIFEX idea consisted in a seamless merge of algorithms and heuristic knowledge embedded in rules. The system, based on domain knowledge collected from airliners Alitalia, KLM, Swissair, and TAP Portugal, was first adopted by Swissair and Alitalia in the late 1980s, then also by the Italian railroad national operator, for their cargo division. It is still in use today (2008).\n"}
{"id": "33743166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33743166", "title": "Robert The", "text": "Robert The\n\nRobert The is a New York City artist known for his Gun Books and other sculptures made primarily of books.\n\nThe's work has been exhibited in notable museums in the US and internationally. According to the Chicago Reader, \"The is reluctant to betray his trade secrets, saying only that he uses a power saw. Paper is harder to cut than wood', he says\". Each year \"he cranks out hundreds of pieces--every one is different\". The's book guns have been collected, writes the Chicago Reader, in the Museum of Modern Art, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, and the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis.\n\nThe New York Times, discussing the future of physical books, wrote that \"creative uses for books that do not involve engaging with words on a page already abound\", and instances The's books cut \"into gun shapes\".\n\nAccording to the Chicago Reader, The \"owns up to [the book guns'] sensational aspect\", and says he \"still gets complaints\", the majority (in The's words) \"from leftists\".\n\nGreenMuze writes that \"Bookguns by American artist Robert The, are used books that are artfully cut into gun-like shapes. Each book is carefully selected to create a play-on-words or add an ironic dimension to his recycled artwork.\" Book titles include Salinger's Catcher in the Rye, McLuhan's The Medium is the Massage and the Bible.\n\n"}
{"id": "9564400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9564400", "title": "Rossia pacifica diegensis", "text": "Rossia pacifica diegensis\n\nRossia pacifica diegensis is a subspecies of bobtail squid native to the eastern Pacific Ocean off Santa Catalina Basin, California. It occurs at greater depths than its sister taxon \"R. p. pacifica\".\n\n\"R. p. diegensis\" grows to 30 mm in mantle length. This subspecies is smaller and more delicate in structure than \"R. p. pacifica\". Relative to its mantle size, it possesses larger fins and arm suckers, the latter being predominantly arranged in two rows.\n\nThe type specimen was collected off California and is deposited at the National Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C..\n\nThe validity of \"R. p. diegensis\" has been questioned.\n"}
{"id": "2687374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687374", "title": "SHEEP (symbolic computation system)", "text": "SHEEP (symbolic computation system)\n\nSHEEP is one of the earliest interactive symbolic computation systems. It is specialized for computations with tensors, and was designed for the needs of researchers working with general relativity and other theories involving extensive tensor calculus computations.\n\nSHEEP is an freeware package (copyrighted, but free for educational and research use).\n\nThe name \"SHEEP\" is pun on the Lisp Algebraic Manipulator or \"LAM\" on which SHEEP is based. The package was written by Inge Frick, using earlier work by Ian Cohen and Ray d'Inverno, who had written ALAM - Atlas LISP Algebraic Manipulation in earlier (designed in 1970). SHEEP was an interactive computer package whereas LAM and ALAM were batch processing languages.\n\nJan E. Åman wrote an important package in SHEEP to carry out the Cartan-Karlhede algorithm. A more recent version of SHEEP, written by Jim Skea, runs under Cambridge Lisp, which is also used for REDUCE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41028296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41028296", "title": "Sifting and winnowing", "text": "Sifting and winnowing\n\nSifting and winnowing is a metaphor for the academic pursuit of truth affiliated with the University of Wisconsin–Madison. It was coined by UW President Charles Kendall Adams in an 1894 final report from a committee exonerating economics professor Richard T. Ely of censurable charges from state education superintendent Oliver Elwin Wells. The phrase became a local byword for the tenet of academic freedom.\n\nIn the 1890s, University of Wisconsin economics professor Richard T. Ely's philosophy and radical practice came under fire from state education superintendent Oliver Elwin Wells. Ely was known to be liberal and pro-union, having published a book on socialism. Wells protested Ely's socialist beliefs, teaching, and public speaking to UW president Charles Kendall Adams and the Board of Regents, who did not censure Ely. A committee appointed to address the charges produced a report that exonerated Ely upon acceptance by the regents. The report introduced the idea of \"sifting and winnowing\":\n\nEly later referred to the report as the \"Wisconsin Magna Charta\" for its guarantees of academic freedom in pursuit of truth. In \"Decades of Chaos and Revolution\", Stephen J. Nelson contends that UW's sentiment on academic freedom had been set \"well before\" the 1890s. He added that the 1894 statement \"sounds the trumpet of the fundamental principles of the academy: an unending, unlimited belief in the creed of academic freedom and inquiry.\"\n\nThe \"sifting and winnowing\" construction was coined by Adams, the UW president, who had defended Ely publicly and read his book. It was later invoked by UW–Madison Chancellor Robben Wright Fleming when responding to protestors during his tenure.\n\nIn a later incident, sociology professor Edward Alsworth Ross was censured upon inviting anarchist Emma Goldman to address his class. He did not share her beliefs, but supported her free speech. In memorial of the incident, the Class of 1910 created a commemorative \"sifting and winnowing\" plaque of the phrase in its context, which the regents rejected. After the Class appealed to area newspapers, the regents relented. The plaque was installed on Bascom Hall in 1915, where it remains. It was rededicated in 1957.\n\n"}
{"id": "49648675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49648675", "title": "Sonic City", "text": "Sonic City\n\nRealised between 2002 and 2004, the project Sonic City was pioneer projects in locative media, in particular the mobile music field which it contributed in establishing.\n\nSonic City was a form of interactive music instrument using the city as an interface. It enabled people to individually create a real-time personal soundscape of electronic music by walking through and interacting with urban environments. Paths turned into musical compositions and mobility through the shifting contexts of a city became a large scale musical gesture.\n\nWorn on the body, Sonic City retrieved information about environmental context and user actions in real time, and mapped it to the live audio processing of urban sounds, resulting in music heard through headphones. One engaged into a musical duet with the city: urban atmospheres, nearby urban artefacts, random encounters, and everyday activities all participated in creating music as you were walking.\n\nAt the cross-road between urban exploration and experimental music making, Sonic City promoted the integration of everyday life settings and practices into personal forms of aesthetic expression with digital technology.\n\nThe Sonic City project was a collaboration between The Interactive Institute (Ramia Mazé and Margot Jacobs) and Future Applications Lab at the Viktoria Institute (Lalya Gaye), together with established Swedish sound-artist Daniel Skoglund (8Tunnel2). Lalya Gaye and Ramia Mazé initiated and managed the project. Magnus Johansson and Sara Lerén (University of Gothenburg) conducted their master's theses in the project.\n\nSonic City was partially funded through the Smart-Its project (as part of the Disappearing Computer FET-IST research programme) and the Mobile Life project (funded by the Swedish Foundation for Strategic Research) at the Viktoria Institute. At The Interactive Institute, Sonic City was included in the Public Play Spaces research platform.\n\nThe project has been well-published and well-cited in academia, received a lot of attention in the new media arts scene, and has received extensive media and blog coverage. Among other places, Sonic City was presented at e.g. NIME and Cybersonica, and was demoed EU’s IST 2004 event in The Hague as an example of innovative European research. It was featured in the Leonardo Electronic Almanac special issue on locative media, and discussed in a number of books and leading publications about sound, technology and urban space as a \"classic\" in terms of digital technology and sound creatively redefining public space.\n\n"}
{"id": "56893797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56893797", "title": "Spirit Love Show", "text": "Spirit Love Show\n\nSpirit Love Show is an American reality television miniseries created by Shin Koyamada from \"The Last Samurai\", Nia Lyte and Claudia Hallowell in 2013. The show was distributed by the Spirit Show Network and directed by Jay Lee from Sony Pictures' \"Zombie Strippers\". The hosts of the show are Nia Lyte, a TED Talk speaker and host from a television show \"Best of Art Basel\", distributed on Comcast, Ovation TV and Xfinity TV, and Claudia Hallowell who also wrote.\n\nSpirit Love Show explores what love is to people of all ages: children, teenagers, adults and people who have been married for over half a century. The show features David Marciano, The Jeffrey Foundation, Reins of H.O.P.E. and others. Through interviews, the show will find what love means to individuals and couples in all walks of life as well as people of different cultures. In addition, the show will showcase what individuals, couples, groups and companies are doing to express love in the world to bring hope and inspiration.\n\nHosts\n\nFeaturing\n\n"}
{"id": "18043234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18043234", "title": "Subpersonality", "text": "Subpersonality\n\nA subpersonality is, in transpersonal psychology, a personality mode that kicks in (appears on a temporary basis) to allow a person to cope with certain types of psychosocial situations. Similar to a complex, the mode may include thoughts, feelings, actions, physiology and other elements of human behavior to self-present a particular mode that works to negate particular psychosocial situations. The average person has about a dozen subpersonalities.\n\nSubpersonalities are able to perceive consciousness as something separate from themselves, as well as domestic image attached to these elements. American transpersonal philosopher Ken Wilber identifies subpersonality as \"functional self-presentations that navigate particular psychosocial situations.\" For example, if a harsh critic responds with judgmental thoughts, anger, superior feelings, critical words, punitive action, and/or tense physiology when confronted with her own and/or others' fallibility, that is a subpersonality of the harsh critic kicking in to cope with the confrontation situation.\n\nFor a somewhat different viewpoint: Many schools of psychotherapy see subpersonalities as relatively enduring psychological structures or entities that influence how a person feels, perceives, behaves, and sees him- or herself. Over the history of psychotherapy, many forms of therapy have worked with inner diversity representations or subpersonalities. Early methods were Jungian analysis, Psychosynthesis, Transactional analysis, and Gestalt therapy. These were followed by some forms of hypnotherapy and the inner child work of John Bradshaw and others. Eventually, forms of therapy largely based on working with subpersonalities have arisen - Voice Dialogue, Ego-state therapy, and John Rowan’s work in Transpersonal psychology. The most recent and widespread subpersonality method is Internal Family Systems Therapy, developed by Richard C. Schwartz. He sees DID alters as on the same continuum as IFS parts (subpersonalities), the only difference being that alters are more polarized and split off from the rest of the internal system. Recent studies have shown that subpersonality integration in the psychosynthesis therapeutic setting can help clients relieve anxiety and rebuild their identities when dealing with culture shock, enhance creativity, and help to awaken personal and spiritual growth in self-identified atheists.\n\n6. Lombard, C.A. (2014) \"Coping with anxiety and rebuilding identity: A psychosynthesis approach to culture shock,\" \"Counselling Psychology Quarterly, 27,(2)\" pp. 174–199. \n"}
{"id": "1955475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1955475", "title": "Superfluous man", "text": "Superfluous man\n\nThe superfluous man (, \"líshniy chelovék\") is an 1840s and 1850s Russian literary concept derived from the Byronic hero. It refers to an individual, perhaps talented and capable, who does not fit into social norms. In most cases, this person is born into wealth and privilege. Typical characteristics are disregard for social values, cynicism, and existential boredom; typical behaviors are gambling, drinking, romantic intrigues, and duels. He is often unmindful, indifferent or unempathetic with society's issues and can carelessly distress others with his actions, despite his position of power. He will often use his power for his own comfort and security and will have very little interest in being charitable or using it for the greater good. \n\nThe superfluous man will often attempt to manipulate, control or enslave other individuals. Because he has no integrity or ambitions, he is often self-serving and sees little point to being a benefactor or helping others. He will often carelessly try to manipulate, degrade or pacify individuals within the society; in order to gain more comfort and security.\n\nThe character type originates in Alexander Pushkin's verse-novel \"Eugene Onegin\" (1825–32). This term was popularized by Ivan Turgenev's novella \"The Diary of a Superfluous Man\" (1850) and was thereafter applied to characters from earlier novels. Mikhail Lermontov's \"A Hero of Our Time\" (1840) depicts another Superfluous Man – Pechorin – as its protagonist. He can be seen as a nihilist and fatalist. Later examples include Alexander Herzen's Beltov in \"Who is to Blame?\" (1845–46), Ivan Turgenev's \"Rudin\" (1856), and the title character of Ivan Goncharov's \"Oblomov\" (1859).\n\nRussian critics such as Vissarion Belinsky viewed the superfluous man as a byproduct of Nicholas I's reign, when the best educated men would not enter the discredited government service and, lacking other options for self-realization, doomed themselves to live out their life in passivity. Scholar David Patterson describes the superfluous man as \"not just...another literary type but...a paradigm of a person who has lost a point, a place, a presence in life\" before concluding that \"the superfluous man is a homeless man\".\n\nThe superfluous man is often in contrast politically with the great man.\n\n"}
{"id": "26469470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26469470", "title": "Teechart", "text": "Teechart\n\nTeeChart is a charting library for programmers developed and managed by Steema Software of Girona, Catalonia, Spain. It is available as commercial and non-commercial software. Borland (later handing on the IDE business to Embarcadero Technologies) has included a standard version of TeeChart as an integral part of the toolbox palette in most Borland Delphi and C++ Builder Integrated development environment (IDEs) since 1997, and TeeChart currently forms a part of Embarcadero RAD Studio 10 Seattle. TeeChart Pro version is a commercial product that offers shareware releases for all of its formats, TeeChart\nLite for .NET is a free charting component for the Microsoft Visual Studio .NET \ncommunity and TeeChart for PHP is an open-source library for PHP environments. The TeeChart Charting Library offers Charts, Maps and Gauge (instrument) in versions for Delphi VCL and FireMonkey (FMX), Activex, C Sharp (programming language) for Microsoft Visual Studio .NET, Java (programming language) and PHP. Full sourcecode has always been available for all versions except the ActiveX version. TeeChart's user interface is translated into 38 languages.\n\nThe first version of TeeChart was authored in 1995 by David Berneda, co-founder of Steema, using the Borland Delphi Visual Component Library programming environment and TeeChart was first released as a shareware version and made available via Compuserve in the same year. It was written in the first version of Delphi VCL, as a 16-bit Charting Library named TeeChart version 1. The next version of TeeChart was released as a 32-bit library (Delphi 2 supported 32-bit compilation) but was badged as TeeChart VCL v3 to coincide with Borland's naming convention for inclusion on the toolbox palette of Borland Delphi v3 in 1997 and with C++ Builder v3 in 1998. It has been on the Delphi/C++ Builder toolbox palette ever since. The current version is Embarcadero RAD Studio 10.2 Tokyo.\n\nTeeChart's first ActiveX version named \"version 3\" too, to match the VCL version's nomenclature, was released in 1998. The version was optimised to work with Microsoft's Visual Studio v97 and v6.0 developer suites that include Visual Basic and Microsoft Visual C++ programming languages. Support for new programming environments followed with TeeChart's first native C# version for Microsoft Visual Studio .NET released in 2002 and TeeChartLite for .NET, a free charting component, released for Visual Studio.NET in 2003 and supporting too, Mono (programming). Steema Software released the first native TeeChart Java (programming language) version in 2006 and TeeChart's first native PHP version was released in 2009 and published as open-source in June 2010. Mobile versions of TeeChart, for Android (operating system) devices and Windows Phone 7 devices were released during the first half of 2011. In 2012 TeeChart extended functionality to iPhone/iPad and BlackBerry OS devices and a new JavaScript version was released in the same year to support HTML5 Canvas. In 2013 Steema launched TeeChart for .NET Chart for Windows Store applications and included support for Microsoft's Windows Phone 8 mobile platform. TeeChart for Xamarin.Forms written with 100% C# code and cross-platform support for .NET desktops, Windows Phone, iOS and Android was released in 2014. Also since 2014 Webforms charts now offers HTML5 interactivity.\n\nTeeChart is a general purpose charting component designed for use in differing ambits, offering a wide range of aesthetics to chart data. Generally TeeCharts published in the field, in areas where large amounts of data must be interpreted regularly, remain by designer choice in their simplest form to maximize the \"data-ink ratio\". Sloan Digital Sky Survey, SDSS Web Services' use for charting \"Scientific .. plotting of online data\" at The Virtual Observatory Spectrum Services reflects that approach. The SDSS chart authors choose to represent data using TeeChart's standard 2D line display. Speed is also a factor when choosing how to most effectively plot data. Realtime data, at frequencies of up to tens or hundreds of data points or more per second, require the most processor economic approach to charting. Computer processing time dedicated to the plotting of data needs to be as lightweight as possible, freeing-up computer tasks \"to achieve real-time data acquisition, display and analysis\".\n\nAn important and stated aspect of many data visualisation applications is the ability to offer interactivity to the user; NASA's document, the Orbital Debris Engineering Model Model ORDEM 3.0 - User's Guide, 2014, states that \"The user may manipulate the graphs to zoom, pan, and copy to the clipboard and export to various file types\" and Computer and Computing Technologies in Agriculture II, Volume 1, Daoliang, Li; Chunjiang, Zhao (2009), also using TeeChart, states \"the properties at any point in the chart can be viewed moving the mouse over it\". Writing about control education, Juha Lindfors states \"The desired charting functionality (such as zooming and scaling) is achieved..\".\n\nCharting applications have become increasingly 'onlined', made available either to a wider public or to a territorially remote userbase via networked applications. The World wide web (the Web) has become \"by far, the most popular Internet protocol\" to disseminate online applications. Most major IDEs now offer environments for web application developede aimed at browser hosted applications. Charting components, TeeChart among them, have adapted to provide models that work within a browser environment, often using static images and scripted layering techniques such as Ajax (programming) to offer a level of interactivity, improve response times and hide apparent delay from the user. Options to enrich client, browser-side processing flexibility are exploited by TeeChart libraries via modules that offer 'micro-environments' within the browser, such as the long established ActiveX technology, Adobe Flash, Microsoft Silverlight or Java Applets. Serverside environments offer too, a means to interact with browser based script to dynamically respond to charting requests. Joomla and CodeIgniter are host environments for TeeChart PHP and an example of an Embarcadero IntraWeb VCL designed application using TeeChart, is documented here.\n\nThe Code Project includes a demo that uses TeeChartLite, called 'Self-Organizing Feature Maps (Kohonen maps)' written by Bashir Magomedovl and SourceForge includes a Database Stress and Monitor that also uses TeeChart.Lite.\n\nBooks and information sources that include substantial sections about working with the Delphi version of TeeChart include \"Mastering Delphi 6\" by Marco Cantù, \"C++ Builder 5 developer's guide\", a video Delphi Tutorial on charting JPEG compression and support forums and reference pages at TeeChart Support Forums. Non-English language document sources include, in Czech \"Myslíme v jazyku Delphi 7: knihovna zkušeného programátora\" by Marco Cantù, and Chinese, Delphi 6, Delphi, and Delphi 5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35530574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35530574", "title": "Time-saving bias", "text": "Time-saving bias\n\nThe time-saving bias describes people's tendency to misestimate the time that could be saved (or lost) when increasing (or decreasing) speed. In general, people underestimate the time that could be saved when increasing from a relatively low speed (e.g., 25 mph or 40 km/h) and overestimate the time that could be saved when increasing from a relatively high speed (e.g., 55 mph or 90 km/h). People also underestimate the time that could be lost when decreasing from a low speed and overestimate the time that could be lost when decreasing from a high speed.\n\nIn one study, participants were asked to judge which of two road improvement plans would be more efficient in reducing mean journey time. Respondents preferred a plan that would increase the mean speed from 70 to 110 km/h more than a plan that would increase the mean speed from 30 to 40 km/h, although the latter actually saves more time (Svenson, 2008, Experiment 1).\n\nIn another study drivers were asked to indicate how much time they feel can be saved when increasing from either a low (30 mph) or high (60 mph) speed (Fuller et al., 2009). For example, participants were asked the following question: \"You are driving along an open road. How much time do you feel you would gain if you drove for 10 miles at 40 mph instead of 30 mph?\" (Fuller et al., 2009, p. 14). Another question had a higher starting speed (60 mph) and two other questions asked about losing time when decreasing speed (from either 30 or 60 mph).\n\nResults supported the predictions of the time-saving bias as participants underestimated the time saved when increasing from a low speed and overestimated the time saved when increasing from a relatively high speed. In addition, participants also misestimated the time lost when decreasing speed: they generally underestimated the time lost when decreasing from a low speed and overestimated the time lost when decreasing from a relatively high speed (Fuller et al., 2009).\n\nThe physical formula for calculating the time, formula_1, gained when increasing speed is:\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere formula_3 is constant and used to transform between units of measurement, formula_1 is the time gained, formula_5 is the distance traveled and formula_6 and formula_7 are the original and increased speeds, respectively. This formula shows that the relationship between increasing speed and journey time is curvilinear: a similar speed increase would result in more time saved when increasing from a low speed compared to a higher speed. For example, when increasing from 20 to 30 mph the time required to complete 10 miles decreases from 30 to 20 minutes, saving 10 minutes. However, the same speed increase of 10 mph would result in less time saved if the initial speed is higher (e.g., only 2 minutes saved when increasing from 50 mph to 60 mph). Changing the distance of the journey from 10 miles to a longer or shorter distance will increase or decrease these time savings, but will not affect the relationship between speed and time savings.\n\nSvenson (2008) suggested that people’s judgments of time-savings actually follow a Proportion heuristic, by which people judge the time saved as the proportion of the speed increase from the initial speed. Another study suggested that people might follow a simpler difference heuristic, by which they judge the time saved based solely on the difference between the initial and higher speed (Peer, 2010b, Study 3). It seems that people falsely believe that journey time decreases somewhat linearly as driving speed increases, irrespective of the initial speed, causing the time-saving bias. Although it is still unclear what is the dominant heuristic people use to estimate time savings, it is evident that almost none follow the above curvelinear relationship.\n\nDrivers who underestimated the time saved when increasing from a low speed or overestimated the time lost when decreasing from a high speed, overestimated the speed required for arriving on a specific time and chose unduly high speeds, sometimes even exceeding the stated speed limit (Peer, 2010a). Similarly, drivers who overestimated the time saved when increasing from a high speed underestimated the speed required for arriving on time and chose lower speeds (Peer, 2011).\n\nThe time-saving bias is not limited to driving. The same faulty estimations emerge when people are asked to estimate savings in patients’ waiting time when adding more physicians to a health care center (Svenson, 2008, Experiment 2) or when estimating an increase in the productivity of a manufacturing line by adding more workers (Svenson, 2011).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "342815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=342815", "title": "Toyota Production System", "text": "Toyota Production System\n\nThe Toyota Production System (TPS) is an integrated socio-technical system, developed by Toyota, that comprises its management philosophy and practices. The TPS organizes manufacturing and logistics for the automobile manufacturer, including interaction with suppliers and customers. The system is a major precursor of the more generic \"lean manufacturing\". Taiichi Ohno and Eiji Toyoda, Japanese industrial engineers, developed the system between 1948 and 1975.\n\nOriginally called \"just-in-time production\", it builds on the approach created by the founder of Toyota, Sakichi Toyoda, his son Kiichiro Toyoda, and the engineer Taiichi Ohno. The principles underlying the TPS are embodied in The Toyota Way.\n\nThe main objectives of the TPS are to design out overburden (muri) and inconsistency (mura), and to eliminate waste (muda). The most significant effects on process value delivery are achieved by designing a process capable of delivering the required results smoothly; by designing out \"mura\" (inconsistency). It is also crucial to ensure that the process is as flexible as necessary without stress or \"muri\" (overburden) since this generates \"muda\" (waste). Finally the tactical improvements of waste reduction or the elimination of muda are very valuable. There are eight kinds of muda that are addressed in the TPS:\n\nThe elimination of waste has come to dominate the thinking of many when they look at the effects of the TPS because it is the most familiar of the three to implement. In the TPS many initiatives are triggered by inconsistency or over-run reduction which drives out waste without specific focus on its reduction.\n\nToyota Motor Corporation published an official description of TPS for the first time in 1992; this booklet was revised in 1998. In the foreword it was said: \"The TPS is a framework for conserving resources by eliminating waste. People who participate in the system learn to identify expenditures of material, effort and time that do not generate value for customers and furthermore we have, avoid a 'how-to' approach. The booklet is not a manual. Rather it is an overview of the concepts, that underlie our production system. It is a reminder that lasting gains in productivity and quality are possible whenever and wherever management and employees are united in a commitment to positive change\". TPS is grounded on two main conceptual pillars:\n\nToyota has developed various tools to transfer these concepts into practice and apply them to specific requirements and conditions in the company and business.\n\nThis system, more than any other aspect of the company, is responsible for having made Toyota the company it is today. Toyota has long been recognized as a leader in the automotive manufacturing and production industry.\n\nIndustrial engineering is the wider science behind TPS.\n\nIt is a myth that \"Toyota received their inspiration for the system, not from the American automotive industry (at that time the world's largest by far), but from visiting a supermarket\". The idea of just-in-time production was originated by Kiichiro Toyoda, founder of Toyota. The question was how to implement the idea. In reading descriptions of American supermarkets, Ohno saw the supermarket as the model for what he was trying to accomplish in the factory. A customer in a supermarket takes the desired amount of goods off the shelf and purchases them. The store restocks the shelf with enough new product to fill up the shelf space. Similarly, a work-center that needed parts would go to a \"store shelf\" (the inventory storage point) for the particular part and \"buy\" (withdraw) the quantity it needed, and the \"shelf\" would be \"restocked\" by the work-center that produced the part, making only enough to replace the inventory that had been withdrawn.\n\nWhile low inventory levels are a key outcome of the Toyota Production System, an important element of the philosophy behind its system is to work intelligently and eliminate waste so that only minimal inventory is needed. Many Western businesses, having observed Toyota's factories, set out to attack high inventory levels directly without understanding what made these reductions possible. The act of imitating without understanding the underlying concept or motivation may have led to the failure of those projects.\n\nThe underlying principles, called the Toyota Way, have been outlined by Toyota as follows:\n\n\n\nExternal observers have summarized the principles of the Toyota Way as:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Toyota production system has been compared to squeezing water from a dry towel. What this means is that it is a system for thorough waste elimination. Here, waste refers to anything which does not advance the process, everything that does not increase added value. Many people settle for eliminating the waste that everyone recognizes as waste. But much remains that simply has not yet been recognized as waste or that people are willing to tolerate.\n\nPeople had resigned themselves to certain problems, had become hostage to routine and abandoned the practice of problem-solving. This going back to basics, exposing the real significance of problems and then making fundamental improvements, can be witnessed throughout the Toyota Production System.\n\nToyota originally began sharing TPS with its parts suppliers in the 1990s. Because of interest in the program from other organizations, Toyota began offering instruction in the methodology to others. Toyota has even \"donated\" its system to charities, providing its engineering staff and techniques to non-profits in an effort to increase their efficiency and thus ability to serve people. For example, Toyota assisted the Food Bank For New York City to significantly decrease waiting times at soup kitchens, packing times at a food distribution center, and waiting times in a food pantry. Toyota announced on June 29, 2011 the launch of a national program to donate its Toyota Production System expertise towards nonprofit organizations with goal of improving their operations, extending their reach, and increasing their impact. By September, less than three months later, SPB, a disaster relief organization based out of New Orleans, reported that their home rebuilds had been reduced from 12 to 18 weeks, to 6 weeks. Additionally, employing Toyota methods (like \"kaizen\") had reduced construction errors by 50 percent. The company included SBP among its first 20 community organizations, along with AmeriCorps.\n\nTaiichi Ohno's \"Workplace Management\" (2007) outlines in 38 chapters how to implement the TPS system. Some important concepts are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20847621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847621", "title": "Universal Darwinism", "text": "Universal Darwinism\n\nUniversal Darwinism (also known as generalized Darwinism, universal selection theory,\nor Darwinian metaphysics) refers to a variety of approaches that extend the theory of Darwinism beyond its original domain of biological evolution on Earth. Universal Darwinism aims to formulate a generalized version of the mechanisms of variation, selection and heredity proposed by Charles Darwin, so that they can apply to explain evolution in a wide variety of other domains, including psychology, economics, culture, medicine, computer science and physics.\n\nAt the most fundamental level, Charles Darwin's theory of evolution states that organisms evolve and adapt to their environment by an iterative process. This process can be conceived as an evolutionary algorithm that searches the space of possible forms (the fitness landscape) for the ones that are best adapted. The process has three components:\n\n\nAfter those fit variants are retained, they can again undergo variation, either directly or in their offspring, starting a new round of the iteration. The overall mechanism is similar to the problem-solving procedures of trial-and-error or generate-and-test: evolution can be seen as searching for the best solution for the problem of how to survive and reproduce by generating new trials, testing how well they perform, eliminating the failures, and retaining the successes.\n\nThe generalization made in \"universal\" Darwinism is to replace \"organism\" by any recognizable pattern, phenomenon, or system. The first requirement is that the pattern can \"survive\" (maintain, be retained) long enough or \"reproduce\" (replicate, be copied) sufficiently frequently so as not to disappear immediately. This is the heredity component: the information in the pattern must be retained or passed on. The second requirement is that during survival and reproduction variation (small changes in the pattern) can occur. The final requirement is that there is a selective \"preference\" so that certain variants tend to survive or reproduce \"better\" than others. If these conditions are met, then, by the logic of natural selection, the pattern will evolve towards more adapted forms.\n\nExamples of patterns that have been postulated to undergo variation and selection, and thus adaptation, are genes, ideas (memes), theories, technologies, neurons and their connections, words, computer programs, firms, antibodies, institutions, law and judicial systems, quantum states and even whole universes.\n\nConceptually, \"evolutionary theorizing about cultural, social, and economic phenomena\" preceded Darwin, but was still lacking the concept of natural selection. Darwin himself, together with subsequent 19th century thinkers such as Herbert Spencer, Thorstein Veblen, James Mark Baldwin and William James, was quick to apply the idea of selection to other domains, such as language, psychology, society, and culture. However, this evolutionary tradition was largely banned from the social sciences in the beginning of the 20th century, in part because of the bad reputation of social Darwinism, an attempt to use Darwinism to justify social inequality.\n\nStarting in the 1950s, Donald T. Campbell was one of the first and most influential authors to revive the tradition, and to formulate a generalized Darwinian algorithm directly applicable to phenomena outside of biology. In this, he was inspired by William Ross Ashby's view of self-organization and intelligence as fundamental processes of selection. His aim was to explain the development of science and other forms of knowledge by focusing on the variation and selection of ideas and theories, thus laying the basis for the domain of evolutionary epistemology. In the 1990s, Campbell's formulation of the mechanism of \"blind-variation-and-selective-retention\" (BVSR) was further developed and extended to other domains under the labels of \"universal selection theory\" or \"universal selectionism\" by his disciples Gary Cziko, Mark Bickhard, and Francis Heylighen.\n\nRichard Dawkins may have first coined the term \"universal Darwinism\" in 1983 to describe his conjecture that any possible life forms existing outside the solar system would evolve by natural selection just as they do on Earth. This conjecture was also presented in 1983 in a paper entitled “The Darwinian Dynamic” that dealt with the evolution of order in living systems and certain nonliving physical systems. It was suggested “that ‘life’, wherever it might exist in the universe, evolves according to the same dynamical law” termed the Darwinian dynamic. Henry Plotkin in his 1997 book on Darwin machines makes the link between universal Darwinism and Campbell's evolutionary epistemology. Susan Blackmore, in her 1999 book \"The Meme Machine\", devotes a chapter titled 'Universal Darwinism' to a discussion of the applicability of the Darwinian process to a wide range of scientific subject matters.\n\nThe philosopher of mind Daniel Dennett, in his 1995 book \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", developed the idea of a Darwinian process, involving variation, selection and retention, as a generic algorithm that is substrate-neutral and could be applied to many fields of knowledge outside of biology. He described the idea of natural selection as a \"universal acid\" that cannot be contained in any vessel, as it seeps through the walls and spreads ever further, touching and transforming ever more domains. He notes in particular the field of memetics in the social sciences.\n\nIn agreement with Dennett's prediction, over the past decades the Darwinian perspective has spread ever more widely, in particular across the social sciences as the foundation for numerous schools of study including memetics, evolutionary economics, evolutionary psychology, evolutionary anthropology, neural Darwinism, and evolutionary linguistics. Researchers have postulated Darwinian processes as operating at the foundations of physics, cosmology and chemistry via the theories of quantum Darwinism, observation selection effects and cosmological natural selection. Similar mechanisms are extensively applied in computer science in the domains of genetic algorithms and evolutionary computation, which develop solutions to complex problems via a process of variation and selection.\n\nAuthor D. B. Kelley has formulated one of the most all-encompassing approaches to Universal Darwinism. In his 2013 book \"The Origin of Everything\", he holds that natural selection involves not the preservation of favored races in the struggle for life, as shown by Darwin, but the preservation of favored systems in contention for existence. The fundamental mechanism behind all such stability and evolution is therefore what Kelley calls \"survival of the fittest systems.\" Because all systems are cyclical, the Darwinian processes of iteration, variation and selection are operative not only among species but among all natural phenomena both large-scale and small. Kelley thus maintains that, since the Big Bang especially, the universe has evolved from a highly chaotic state to one that is now highly ordered with many stable phenomena, naturally selected.\nThe following approaches can all be seen as exemplifying a generalization of Darwinian ideas outside of their original domain of biology. These \"Darwinian extensions\" can be grouped in two categories, depending on whether they discuss implications of biological (genetic) evolution in other disciplines (e.g. medicine or psychology), or discuss processes of variation and selection of entities other than genes (e.g. computer programs, firms or ideas). However, there is no strict separation possible, since most of these approaches (e.g. in sociology, psychology and linguistics) consider both genetic and non-genetic (e.g. cultural) aspects of evolution, as well as the interactions between them (see e.g. gene-culture coevolution).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4080078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4080078", "title": "Worry", "text": "Worry\n\nWorry refers to the thoughts, images, and emotions of a negative nature in a repetitive, uncontrollable manner that results from a proactive cognitive risk analysis made to avoid or solve anticipated potential threats and their potential consequences. Worry is described as a response to a moderate challenge for when the subject has inadequate skills. Worry turns to be problematic if one has been excessively apprehensive more days than not for at least six months.\n\nPsychologically, worry is part of\nPerseverative Cognition (a collective term for continuous thinking about negative events in the past or in the future). As an emotion \"worry\" is experienced from anxiety or concern about a real or imagined issue, often personal issues such as health or finances, or external broader issues such as environmental pollution, social structure or technological change. It’s a natural response to anticipated future problems. Excessive worry is a primary diagnostic feature of generalized anxiety disorder. Most people experience short-lived periods of worry in their lives without incident; indeed, a mild amount of worrying have positive effects, if it prompts people to take precautions (e.g., fastening their seat belt or buying insurance) or avoid risky behaviors (e.g., angering dangerous animals, or binge drinking), but with excessive worrisome people they overestimate future dangers in their assessments and in its extremities tend to magnify the situation as a dead end which results stress. Overestimation happens because analytic resources are a combination of external locus of control, personal experience and belief fallacies. Chronically worried individuals are also more likely to lack confidence in their problem solving ability, perceive problems as threats, become easily frustrated when dealing with a problem, and are pessimistic about the outcome of problem-solving efforts.\n\nSeriously anxious people find it difficult to control their worry and typically experience symptoms like Restlessness, Fatigue, Difficulty in concentrating, Irritability, Muscle tension and Sleep disturbance.\n\nThe avoidance model of worry (AMW) theorizes that worry is a verbal linguistic, thought based activity, which arises as an attempt to inhibit vivid mental imagery and associated somatic and emotional activation. This inhibition precludes the emotional processing of fear that is theoretically necessary for successful habituation and extinction of feared stimuli. Worry is reinforced as a coping technique due to the fact that most worries never actually occur, leaving the worrier with a feeling of having successfully controlled the feared situation, without the unpleasant sensations associated with exposure.\n\nThis model explains pathological worry to be an interaction between involuntary (bottom-up) processes, such as habitual biases in attention and interpretation favoring threat content, and voluntary (top-down) processes, such as attentional control. Emotional processing biases influence the probability of threat representations into the awareness as intruding negative or positive thoughts. At a pre-conscious level, these processes influence the competition among mental representations in which some correspond to the assertive power of worry with impaired cognitive process and others to the preventive power of worry with attentional control or exhaustive vigilance. The biases determine threatening degree and nature of worry content the worrier attempts to resolve the perceived threat and the redirection of anticipations, responses and coping in such situations.\n\nThere are some who respond to mental representations in an uncertain or ambiguous state in regard to the stressful or upsetting event. In this state the worrier is held in a perpetual state of worry. This is because availability of an overwhelming number(maybe 2 or 3, depending upon the worry-prone individual) of possibilities of outcomes which can be generated, it puts the worrier in a threatening crisis and they focus their attentional control voluntarily on the potential negative outcomes, whereas others engage in a constructive problem solving manner and in a benign approach rather than to engage with heightened anticipation on the possible negative outcome.\n\nGreek thinkers such as stoic philosopher Epictetus and Seneca advised against worry. Albert Ellis, the inventor of cognitive behavioural therapy, was inspired by the Stoics’ therapeutic ideas.\n\nThe biblical word used in Hebrew for worry (, \"\") regards worry as a combined form of fear and sorrow which affects nephesh, the totality of our being. The bible takes a fortitude-strengthening approach regarding worrying e.g. Psalm 94:\n\nIn the New Testament, the Gospel of Matthew encourages:\nSt. Paul writes to the Philippian church, \"There is no need to worry\" and in the pastoral epistles, 2 Timothy 1:7 emboldens:\nSimilarly James 1:2-4 motivates to face trials of any kind with joy, because they produce endurance (strength and courage). Further Saint Peter reveals his understanding of healthy living in Second Peter 1:3,5-7:\n\nA late Indian spiritual teacher Meher Baba stated that worry is caused by desires and can be overcome through detachment:\n\nWorry system is activated from exposure of a potential triggering event, traumatic experience or vulnerability, this brings worrisome thoughts and feelings which bring about physical stress reactions and response to avoid worrisome behavior, to ensure allostasis. But under the crisis this activity feeds back into the first worrisome thoughts and feelings which generates and strengthens the vicious worry cycle. Relaxation, risk assessment, worry exposure and behavior prevention have been proven effective in curbing the excessive worry, a chief feature of generalized anxiety disorder. Cognitive behavioral techniques hasn't branched out enough to address the problem holistically but therapy can control or diminish worry.\n\n"}
