{"id": "55842949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55842949", "title": "Adam Beaumont", "text": "Adam Beaumont\n\nProfessor Adam Beaumont (born August 1972) is a businessman, angel investor, trustee and digital entrepreneur. He is the CEO of telecommunications provider aql, a visiting professor of cyber security at the University of Leeds and the Honorary Consul of the Republic of Estonia to the Northern Powerhouse and the Isle of Man.\n\nBeaumont was state educated. He was born in Stockport, England.\n\nHe has a PhD in Physical Chemistry and a BSc in Colour and Polymer Chemistry from the University of Leeds.\n\nAfter completing his PhD, Beaumont began his career at age 24 with a three-year stint as the University of Leeds' youngest lecturer in physical chemistry, including quantum mechanics and thermodynamics.\n\nHe then spent some time in secure mobile communications for the Defence Evaluation Research Agency (DERA), an agency of the Ministry of Defence. Beaumont was involved in building the agency's first cyber teams.\n\nBeaumont founded telecommunications platform company aql in 1998, and is the company's CEO.\n\nIn 2008, he purchased the Salem Chapel, a 1791 Grade II listed building in the heart of Leeds. Over several years, he restored the building and turned it into the main data hub in the North. The restored chapel houses aql's head office, and has hosted the launch of government initiatives, including the Northern Powerhouse concept and the first Northern Powerhouse Partnership report.\n\nHe is a founder and board member of IXLeeds, the UK’s first and only fully independent internet exchange outside London.\n\nIn 2015, Beaumont founded not-for-profit investment platform NorthInvest. As an angel investor, he invests between £20,000 and £400,000 in early-stage tech companies, such as CBiS Education, Deekit, ID Health, Memento VR and Gravity Industries.\n\nAfter aql bought Isle of Man-based communications provider BlueWave Communications in 2015, Beaumont became the company's CEO.\n\nBeaumont is active overseas, leading the founding delegation to create UK:Estonia TechLink. More recently he led a delegation of northern business leaders on an April 2017 trade mission to San Francisco as part of the government's Northern Powerhouse initiative.\n\nIn January 2018, he helped launch Transport for the North's Strategic Transport Plan to transform transportation in the North of England over the next 30 years.\n\nBeaumont was appointed a visiting professor of cyber security at the University of Leeds in October 2017. He is also a governor of Leeds City College.\n\nIn June 2017, Beaumont was appointed as a Trustee of the Eden Project.\n\nBeaumont was named International Director of the Year 2017 for Yorkshire and the North East by the Institute of Directors. He was named Director of the Year for Innovation in 2018.\n\nHe was appointed to the board of the Leeds City Region Enterprise Partnership (LEP) in 2017.\n\nHe was named Honorary Consul of the Republic of Estonia to the Northern Powerhouse and the Isle of Man in April 2018.\n\nBeaumont joined the UK5G Advisory Board in March 2018.\n\nA regular keynote speaker on topics including cyber security and mobile security, Beaumont delivered the opening address at the Huddersfield leg of the Duke of York's prestigious Pitch@Palace entrepreneurship competition in February 2018. In April, he gave two talks at CYBERUK 2018, the National Cyber Security Centre's (NCSC) annual flagship conference.\n\nHe is part of Leeds City Region's team that successfully bid on a place on Massachusetts Institute of Technology's (MIT) two-year Regional Entrepreneurship Acceleration Programme (REAP).\n"}
{"id": "49597068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49597068", "title": "Adrian Di Marco", "text": "Adrian Di Marco\n\nAdrian Di Marco is an Australian entrepreneur and businessman. He is the founder and Executive chairman of TechnologyOne, Australia's largest enterprise software company.\n\nDi Marco founded TechnologyOne at the front of a hide processing plant in 1987 with a small amount of capital provided by JL Mactaggart Industries, and in December 1999 he led the company into its listing on the ASX making it one of the most successful floats of the DotCom era.\n\nUnder Di Marco's leadership TechnologyOne has built a global software platform having expanded into New Zealand, Asia, South Pacific and the United Kingdom. TechnologyOne is now developing one of the largest Software as a service (SaaS) platforms in the Australasian region, delivering large scale enterprise software as a service.\n\nIn January 2016 Di Marco announced that he was planning to resign in the next year or two, and in April 2017 he announced that on 23 May, when the company released its half-year results, he would step down as CEO and that the COO, Edward Chung, would take over. Di Marco remained as executive chairman.\n\nDi Marco is an active member of the Australian IT community. He has been a past director of the Australian Information Industry Association, the peak body for the Australian IT industry. He was also a founding member of Software Queensland, an organisation established to promote the Queensland Software industry, and chairman of the advisory board for inQbator, a company that incubates start up IT companies, providing them with funding to commercialise their ideas.\n\nHe is a member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors (MAICD). The AICD is a governing body aimed at assisting members to improve their quality of governance and directorship.\n\nDi Marco is active in philanthropic endeavours. Some of the charities he has supported include the Salvation Army, Mission Australia, World Vision, Royal Children's Hospital Foundation as a past director of the Board, and Tanzania's The School of St Jude for which TechnologyOne helped build the school's first E-Learning program.\n\nIn 2001 Di Marco was awarded Entrepreneur of the Year award. In 2004 he won the Pearcey Award for innovative and pioneering achievement and contribution to research and development in IT.\n\nDi Marco was named Business Person of the Year at the prestigious Brisbane Lord Mayor's Business Awards in 2009. In 2010 he received the Tony Benson award for outstanding contribution to the Australian ICT industry and was awarded the highest honour of the Australian Computer Society in recognition of distinguished contribution to the field of ICT in Australia.\n\nDi Marco was inducted into the Pearcey Hall of Fame in 2015, was named by AFR Boss as one of 2015's top ten CEOs who deliver, and was included in SmartCompany's 2015 list of top ten most influential people in the Australian IT industry. Di Marco was also named in the 2016 list of CEOs who deliver.\n\n"}
{"id": "37699423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37699423", "title": "Ahmed bin Ali bin Abdulla Al Khalifa", "text": "Ahmed bin Ali bin Abdulla Al Khalifa\n\nSheikh Ahmed bin Ali bin Abdulla Al Khalifa (), Board Chairman and president of Al-Muharraq SC based in Al-Muharraq and chairman of Zain Bahrain as well as Al Areen Holding Company\n\n"}
{"id": "14787815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14787815", "title": "Bert De Graeve", "text": "Bert De Graeve\n\nBert De Graeve (born 1955, Avelgem) is a Belgian businessman and since 20 May 2006 Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of Bekaert, where he succeeded Julien De Wilde. In 2014 he became chairman of the Board.\n\nBert De Grave studied at the Sint-Barbaracollege in Ghent.\nHe graduated as a lawyer from the University of Ghent (Ghent) in 1980. In addition he studied financial management at the IPO-UFSIA Management School (Antwerp) and became Master in Tax Management at VLEKHO (Brussels).\n\nHe started his career in 1980 at Arthur Andersen. From 1982 until 1996 he worked for Alcatel Bell. From 1982 until 1991 he worked in various financial responsibilities. From 1991 until 1994 he was General manager Shanghai Bell Telephone Equipm. Mfg. Cy, Shanghai. From 1994 until 1996 he worked in Paris as Vice-President, Director Operations, Alcatel Trade international. In 1996 he was Director International Affairs, Alcatel Alsthom in Paris.\n\nFrom 1996 until 2002, Bert De Graeve was Managing Director of the Vlaamse Radio- en Televisieomroep (Flemish Public radio and television), after which he was succeeded by Tony Mary.\n\nFrom 2002 until 2005, he was Bekaert Group Executive Vice President, Chief Financial and Administration Officer and Corporate Secretary. Since May 2006 he has been Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and in May 2014 he became Chairman of Bekaert Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "3733303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3733303", "title": "Bibi Russell", "text": "Bibi Russell\n\nBibi Russell (born 1950) is a Bangladeshi fashion designer and former international model.\n\nRussell was born in 1950 in Chittagong, Bangladesh to Mokhlessur Rahman and Shamsun Nahar. She grew up in Dhaka studying in Kamrunnessa Govt Girls High School and Later College of Home Economics, Azimpur, Dhaka. She earned a graduate degree in fashion from London College of Fashion in 1975. In the next five years, she worked as a model for different magazines including Vogue, Cosmopolitan and Harper's Bazaar. She also worked as a fashion model in fashion shows until 1994, working with Yves Saint Laurent, Kenzo, Karl Lagerfeld and Giorgio Armani. Having returned to Bangladesh in 1994, Russell opened \"Bibi Productions\", a fashion house, fusing indigenous Bengali cultural elements into her line. As of 2004, her company employed 35,000 weavers in rural Bangladesh.\n\nWith UNESCO support, Bibi Russell organized her first European fashion show (pioneering event by an South Asian female) in Paris in 1996. She also organized fashion show, \"The Colours of Bangladesh\", in Spain in 1997. In 2016, she participated in India at India Runway Week seventh edition where she presented her latest collection on Rajasthan khadi. Bibi's collection was celebrated by the Indian fashion industry. Recently (in 2016), she showcased her collection for opening show at Indian Federation for Fashion Development's India Runway Week Season 7.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "417266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=417266", "title": "Big Tobacco", "text": "Big Tobacco\n\nBig Tobacco is the \"big five\" largest global tobacco industry companies which are Philip Morris International, British American Tobacco, Imperial Brands, Japan Tobacco International, and China Tobacco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3407129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3407129", "title": "British Pipeline Agency", "text": "British Pipeline Agency\n\nBritish Pipeline Agency Ltd (BPA) is a joint venture, established in 1969, between BP Oil UK and Shell UK. The company operates the UK oil pipeline network of oil pipelines which transport petroleum products around the UK.\nBPA replaced the pipeline operations group of Shell Mex & BP in the late 1960s and took over the role as the majority operator on the Government Pipeline and Storage System. They continued as the major operator of the GPSS under reimbursable and fully indemnified contracts until the 1990s when those contracts were ended and instead the GPSS was instead operated by a number of companies under competitively tendered term contracts. \n\n"}
{"id": "482960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482960", "title": "Budd Schulberg", "text": "Budd Schulberg\n\nBudd Schulberg (March 27, 1914 – August 5, 2009) was an American screenwriter, television producer, novelist and sports writer. He was known for his 1941 novel, \"What Makes Sammy Run?\", his 1947 novel \"The Harder They Fall\", his 1954 Academy Award-winning screenplay for \"On the Waterfront\", and his 1957 screenplay for \"A Face in the Crowd\".\n\nBorn Seymour Wilson Schulberg, he was raised in a Jewish family the son of Hollywood film-producer B. P. Schulberg and Adeline (née Jaffe) Schulberg, who founded a talent agency taken over by her brother, agent/film producer Sam Jaffe. In 1931, when Schulberg was 17, his father left the family to live with actress Sylvia Sidney. His parents divorced in 1933.\n\nSchulberg attended Deerfield Academy and then went on to Dartmouth College, where he was actively involved in the \"Dartmouth Jack-O-Lantern\" humor magazine and was a member of the Pi Lambda Phi fraternity. In 1939, he collaborated on the screenplay for \"Winter Carnival\", a light comedy set at Dartmouth. One of his collaborators was F. Scott Fitzgerald, who was fired because of his alcoholic binge during a visit with Schulberg to Dartmouth. Dartmouth College awarded Schulberg an honorary degree in 1960.\n\nWhile serving in the Navy during World War II, Schulberg was assigned to the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), working with John Ford's documentary unit. Following VE Day, he was reportedly among the first American servicemen to liberate the Nazi concentration camps. He was involved in gathering evidence against war criminals for the Nuremberg Trials, an assignment that included arresting documentary film maker Leni Riefenstahl at her chalet in Kitzbühel, Austria, ostensibly to have her identify the faces of Nazi war criminals in German film footage captured by the Allied troops. Riefenstahl claimed she was not aware of the nature of the internment camps. According to Schulberg, \"She gave me the usual song and dance. She said, 'Of course, you know, I'm really so misunderstood. I'm not political'\"\n\nBeing the son of a successful Hollywood producer gave Schulberg an insider's viewpoint on the true happenings of Hollywood, and his literature and film reflected this.\n\nHis most famed writing \"What Makes Sammy Run?\" allowed the public to see the harshness of Hollywood stardom via Sammy Glick's Cinderella story that does not end happily ever after. This novel was criticized by some as being self-directed anti-semitism.\nIn 1950, Schulberg published \"The Disenchanted,\" about a young screenwriter who collaborates on a screenplay about a college winter festival with a famous novelist at the nadir of his career. The novelist (who was then assumed by reviewers to be a thinly disguised portrait of Fitzgerald, who had died ten years earlier) is portrayed as a tragic and flawed figure, with whom the young screenwriter becomes disillusioned. The novel was the 10th bestselling novel in the United States in 1950 and was adapted as a Broadway play in 1958, starring Jason Robards (who won a Tony Award for his performance) and George Grizzard as the character loosely based on Schulberg. In 1958, Schulberg wrote and co-produced (with his younger brother, Stuart) the film \"Wind Across the Everglades,\" directed by Nicholas Ray.\n\nSchulberg wrote the 1957 film \"A Face in the Crowd.\" Based on the short story in his book \"Some Faces in the Crowd,\" the film starred newcomer Andy Griffith as an obscure country singer who rises to fame and becomes extraordinarily manipulative to preserve his success and power.\n\nSchulberg encountered political controversy in 1951 when screenwriter Richard Collins, testifying to the House Un-American Activities Committee, named Schulberg as a former member of the Communist Party. Schulberg testified as a friendly witness that Party members had sought to influence the content of \"What Makes Sammy Run?\" and \"named names\" of other Hollywood communists\n\nSchulberg was also a sports writer and former chief boxing correspondent for \"Sports Illustrated.\" He wrote some well received books on boxing, including \"Sparring with Hemingway.\" He was inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in 2002 in recognition of his contributions to the sport. \n\nIn 1965, after a devastating riot had ripped apart the fabric of the Watts section of Los Angeles, Schulberg formed the Watts Writers Workshop in an attempt to ease frustrations and bring artistic training to the economically impoverished district. \n\nIn 1982 Schulberg wrote \"Moving Pictures, Memoirs of a Hollywood Prince,\" an autobiography covering his youth in Hollywood growing up in the '20s and '30s among the famous motion picture actors and producers as the son of B.P. Schulberg, head of Paramount Studios.\n\nSchulberg was married four times. In 1936, he married his first wife, actress Virginia \"Jigee\" Lee Ray. They had one daughter, Victoria, before divorcing in 1942. In 1943, he married Victoria \"Vickee\" Anderson. They divorced in 1964. They had two children: Stephen (born 1944) and David (born 1946). David was a Vietnam veteran who predeceased his father. In 1964, he married actress Geraldine Brooks. They were married until her death in 1977; they had no children. In 1977, he married Betsy Ann Langman, granddaughter of investment banker Maurice Wertheim and great-granddaughter of US ambassador Henry Morgenthau Sr.; they had two children: Benn and Jessica. \n\nHis niece Sandra Schulberg was an executive producer of the Academy Award nominated film \"Quills\", among other movies. His mother, of \"The Ad Schulberg Agency\", served as his agent until her death in 1977. His brother, Stuart Schulberg, was a movie and television producer (\"David Brinkley's Journal\", \"The Today Show\"). His sister, Sonya Schulberg (O'Sullivan) (1918-2016) was an occasional writer (novel \"They Cried a Little\" and stories).\n\nBudd Schulberg died in his home in Quiogue, New York, aged 95.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20128084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20128084", "title": "Cement industry in China", "text": "Cement industry in China\n\nThe cement industry in China is the largest in the world, producing 2462 Mt in 2014, an annual increase of 2.6% \n"}
{"id": "37468613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37468613", "title": "Chan Mah Phee", "text": "Chan Mah Phee\n\nChan Mah Phee (; born in Fujian, China) was a Hoklo Chinese businessman, land-owner, investor and philanthropist who founded numerous successful ventures in Rangoon (now Yangon), Burma in 1800s and 1900s.\n\nChan was born in Amoy, Fujian in the nineteenth century to his peasant father Chan Ee Shin. In 1870, Chan migrated to Singapore before ultimately moving to Rangoon in 1872.\n\nChan Mah Phee founded his most successful business Taik Leong Co. in Rangoon in 1883. The company dealt primarily in oil, rice and tobacco. Chan Mah Phee was also a director of The Chinese Steamship Co., Limited. Chan was the largest Chinese land owner and most important Chinese rice-dealer in Burma. In a Rangoon where communities remained voluntarily segregated down ethnic lines, he managed to be a prominent figure in Rangoon with many connections which extended far beyond the municipality's Chinese community.\n\nChan Mah Phee and Daw Aye Mya built a Tazaung at the Shwedagon Pagoda. They also offered Satu-ditha at the Tabaung Festival. They also donated to build Hwa Kyone High School (later known as No 3 Regional College / Kyimyindine Campus, Rangoon University). They built Chan Mah Phee hospital in Ahlon where a street was named in his honor.\n\nThe Chan Ma Phee hall of Shwedagon Pagoda was named in his honor in recognition of his patronage and financial contributions to the temple. Chan Mah Phee's second son, Chan Chor Khine inherited and expanded his father's businesses. Chan Chor Khine was educated at St. Paul's High School, Rangoon.\n"}
{"id": "22390490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22390490", "title": "Cherif Guellal", "text": "Cherif Guellal\n\nCherif Guellal (born 19 August 1932 in Constantine, Algeria – deceased 7 April 2009) was an Algerian businessman and diplomat, who fought in the Algerian independence movement and who was a citizen of the United States.\n\nCherif Guellal attended the university at Aix-en-Provence in southern France, and graduated in 1956. Taking the lead from his mother, who was a leader in the Algerian anti-French resistance movement, he joined the government in exile. He worked to build support for the movement, mainly from India.\n\nHe served as a key aide to the resistance leader Ahmed Ben Bella, who became the first president of post-colonial Algeria. He was sent to Washington, D.C., as the new country's first Ambassador to the United States. His primary role was to protect the Algerian oil interests and handle the independence of Algeria in the cold-war era. The US-Algeria relations were also tensed by the establishment of the Vietcongs' first mission outside of Vietnam, in Algeria. Cherif Guellal also had to handle Algeria's official ties with Cuba and the tension it generated within the US diplomatic corps. In a 1964 speech, he stated «We wish to be masters in our own house and not junior partners of the great powers».\n\nIn May 1964, after Lyndon B. Johnson was named to the White House, his 12-room French chateau-style house (\"The Elms\") was sold to the Algerian government and became the residence of Cherif Guellal. According to the writer Barbara Howar in her 1973 memoir \"Laughing All The Way\", Guellal and Johnson both originated from oil-rich states (Texas for Johnson) and shared a similar mentality towards politics.\n\nHe outlasted his mentor, remaining in his post following the military coup that removed Ben Bella from power and installed Houari Boumedienne, the former National Liberation Front military chief, in his place.\n\nIn Washington, he successfully lobbied for the repeal of racially restrictive covenants on his ambassadorial residence, one impetus for the later, widespread repeal of such covenants.\n\nWhen the 1967 Arab-Israeli war broke, Cherif Guellal's term ended. He remained a representative of Algeria's national oil company Sonatrach.\n\nAmbassador Guellal died of leukemia in Algeria on April 7, 2009. He was buried at the El Alia Cemetery.\n\nGuellal had a long-term relationship with Yolande Fox, who was Miss America in 1951 and later an opera singer. Guellal and Fox led an active social life, frequenting academic meetings and circulating among Washington's social and intellectual elite. His social secretary was Sally Quinn. Until his death, they raised Fox's grandchild, Yolande Paris Campbell, together.\n\n"}
{"id": "16255788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16255788", "title": "Chief business officer", "text": "Chief business officer\n\nChief business officer (CBO) is the position of the top operating executive of growing commercial companies or an academic/research institution (such as a university, college, institute, or teaching hospital). In the commercial space, CBO shows leadership in deal making experience with a clear record of results and ultimate transactional responsibility. In higher education, the titles of vice president, associate dean, assistant dean, and director are also used for the role of the chief business officer\nIn the biotechnology, information technology, and emerging innovation industries, the Chief Business Officers assume full management responsibility for the company’s deal making, provides leadership and execute a deal strategy that will allow the company to fulfill its scientific/technology mission and build shareholder value, provides managerial guidance to the company’s product development staff as needed. Reporting directly to the Board of Directors and/or the CEO of the company, CBO sometimes has a dual role as a Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Strategy Officer.\n\nThe CBO is often given the responsibilities to conduct all business and corporate development activities, maintain relationship and project management of all partnership agreements, ensure marketing activities, including website related, activities, and more importantly, develop an exit strategy for the company to be acquired or go IPO.\n\nThe titles of executive vice president and senior vice president are found most often in a university’s central administration office and a hierarchical relationship does not necessarily exist between those positions and the chief business officer position of a university affiliated institute or center which is often at an equivalent level. Several large public school districts in the United States now employ chief business officers to oversee the business operations of the school district as well as the work of individual school business managers. Independent schools increasingly use the chief business officer title to identify the school finance director or school business manager. The chief business officer position in education should not be confused with the unrelated chief commercial officer or chief business development officer positions in other industries. Additionally, the chief business development officer title is often shortened to chief business officer in biotechnology, information technology, and startup companies.\n\nThe Chief Business Officer is responsible for the administrative, financial, and operations management of the organization often combining the roles of chief administrative officer (CAO), chief financial officer (CFO), and chief operating officer (COO). As a result, the executive holding the chief business officer position, by definition, will usually possess a broader range of experience and more extensive skill set than an individual serving in those C-level positions.\n\nAs one of the highest ranking executives in an academic or research organization, the chief business officer may oversee strategic planning in addition to budgeting, financial management, contracts, human resources, procurement, compliance, real estate, facilities, information technology and risk management. At many colleges and universities sustainability and green building initiatives fall under the purview of the chief business officer while other institutions include community and local government relations in the CBO's responsibilities \n\nMany Chief Business Officers hold advanced academic degrees (MBA, PhD, etc.) or leading professional credentials and continue to participate in academic research or consulting projects in their areas of expertise. Job experience for the chief business officer role is generally gained, on the job, at the department, unit or program level prior to advancing into a chief business officer role although business officers at all levels are sometimes hired from private industry, government or other non-profit organizations.\n\nEducational requirements for the chief business officer position vary by different commercial companies and institutions \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1044033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1044033", "title": "Civic, Australian Capital Territory", "text": "Civic, Australian Capital Territory\n\nCivic is the name by which the central business district of Canberra is commonly known. It is also called Civic Centre, City Centre, Canberra City and Canberra, but its official division name is City (postcode: 2601).\n\nCanberra's City was established in 1927, although the division name City was not gazetted until 20 September 1928. Walter Burley Griffin's design for Canberra included a \"Civic Centre\" with a separate \"Market Centre\" located at what is now Russell. However Prime Minister Stanley Bruce vetoed this idea and only the Civic Centre was developed; the idea of the Market Centre was abandoned.\n\nSome of the earliest buildings constructed in Canberra were the Sydney and Melbourne buildings which flank Northbourne Avenue. The buildings house many shops, bars and restaurants.\n\nThe Canberra Centre, a three-storey shopping complex is Civic's main shopping precinct with a retail presence from the national chains David Jones, Myer, Big W and Target department stores. Nearby is Glebe Park, a picturesque park near the centre of the city with elm trees and oaks from early European settlement before the city was founded. It has a children's play park. It is popular with people on their lunch breaks and younger children from the surrounding areas. Civic also is home to the Canberra Theatre, Casino Canberra, Canberra Museum and Gallery and the National Convention Centre. \n\nGarema Place and City Walk are open areas of Civic for pedestrian traffic with many outdoor cafes. One of the longest running cafes in Civic is Gus's Cafe on Bunda Street. \n\nA local bus station predominantly used by ACTION, the ACT government-operated bus service, is located on East Row, Alinga Street, Mort Street and Northbourne Avenue. On the western side of Northbourne Avenue (north of Alinga Street) is the Jolimont Centre, which is the bus terminal for Greyhound Australia and Murrays.\n\nCanberra City has relatively low height limits on buildings for the centre of a major city: the maximum height of buildings in Civic is 617 metres above sea level, which is derived from the altitude of Parliament House. This height limit is equivalent to approximately 12 storeys for an office building or about 15 storeys for a residential building.\n\nBefore the development of the City of Canberra, there was no clear commercial centre for the area, other than nearby Queanbeyan. Murray's store, considered the area's first retail store, operated from a house built in 1874 on the glebe of St John the Baptist Church, within the present boundaries of Commonwealth Park, to the east of what is now Nerang Pool. It burnt down in 1923.\n\nGriffin's plan separated the national centre, the administrative centre of the city, now the Parliamentary Triangle, from the Civic Centre, the principal commercial area. The commercial centre was planned to be on what Griffin described as the Municipal Axis which was projected to run north-west from Mount Pleasant. Variations from Griffin's plan that affect City include the abandonment of a city railway and a reduction in the widths of some streets, including of London Circuit which was planned to be and was reduced to . Griffin's civic focus on Vernon Knoll, now known as City Hill, has not materialised mainly because of the way city building has progressed.\n\nThe first major buildings planned for the commercial centre were the Melbourne and Sydney Buildings, which were designed in the \"Inter-War Mediterranean style\". Construction began in 1926 and they were finally completed in 1946. Immediately after World War II, the Melbourne and Sydney buildings still comprised the main part of Civic and the Blue Moon Cafe was the only place to go for a meal apart from the Hotel Canberra and the Hotel Civic.\n\nUp until the 1960s, Canberra shoppers found the retail environment frustrating. Many did their weekly shopping in Queanbeyan, where the central business district was more compact. Major purchases were made in Sydney. In 1963, the Monaro Mall (now Canberra Centre) opened. It included a branch of the David Jones department store.\n\nThe Melbourne and Sydney buildings were based on design principles set by John Sulman in sketch form. The design work was finalised by John Hunter Kirkpatrick. The buildings were the model which establish the colonnade principle, an important design element throughout Civic. From 1921 to 1924 Sulman was chairman of the Federal Capital Advisory Committee, and in that role was involved in the planning of Canberra and refining Griffin's plan.\n\nSulman's concept of arcaded loggias was derived from Brunelleschi's Ospedale degli Innocenti (Foundling Hospital) and the cloisters of the 15th century Basilica di San Lorenzo di Firenze. The Mediterranean influence was maintained by Kirkpatrick with Roman roof tiles and cast embellishments such as roundels. The buildings were originally constructed with open first floor verandahs which have since largely been glazed in.\n\nThe Melbourne Building was sold sequentially as independent parcels from 1927 until 1946. The corner of West Row and London Circuit was built specifically for the Bank of New South Wales (now the Westpac Banking Corporation). The manager lived above the bank. Much of the Melbourne Building facing West Row was completed by the Commonwealth Government in 1946 and used as the location of the Commonwealth Employment Service. From 1944 to 1953, the Canberra University College was housed in the Melbourne building. On 11 April 1953 the Melbourne Building was severely damaged by fire, and the college relocated (it eventually became the Australian National University).\n\nOn 17 February 2014, the Sydney Building was significantly damaged by a fire which began with an explosion in a ground floor Japanese restaurant adjacent to East Row around 9.45 am. The fire was quickly brought under control, but was not extinguished until 2 am on 18 February 2014. During the blaze, a section of the heritage listed building's roof collapsed. The fire saw the evacuation of 40 businesses as well as closures of several roads and the City Bus Station, causing bus route diversions and major disruption to ACTION public transport services.\nThis was the second fire in the building - in 2002 a fire extensively damaged Mooseheads bar, also resulting in a partial roof collapse.\n\nThe Hotel Civic opened in 1935. It was constructed in an Art Deco style from Canberra Cream bricks. It was demolished in late 1984 through early 1985. The hotel was on the corner of Alinga Street and the eastern side of Northbourne Avenue.\n\nIn 1965, the Hotel Civic was the scene of a protest about the segregation of women in the hotel:... a protest where a number of us [including the interviewee Helen Jarvis] chained ourselves to the bar in the Hotel Civic. Women weren't allowed to be served in the public bar -- that was the law in both NSW and the ACT. We had to use the saloon bar or the ladies' bar, where prices were higher, or to huddle out the back around the old kegs. They were also morose places, at least at the Civic, which was the only pub near the university. The public bar had all the spirit. We chained ourselves to the public bar. The bartender wouldn't serve us, but there were some sympathetic men who bought drinks for us. The newspapers trivialised it, of course: they wrote it up with the headline, “Women breast the bar”.\n\nCivic Square houses the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly, Canberra Museum and Gallery, Civic Library and Canberra Theatre as well as many local cultural organisations, including the Canberra division of the National Trust of Australia.\n\nCivic Square was designed by Yuncken Freeman architects and completed in 1961. Civic Square is sited within a primary axis of Griffin's design for Canberra which links City Hill and Mount Ainslie. Griffin intended that the square be the ‘heart of the city’. Civic Square was listed on the register of the former National Estate.\n\nThe Canberra Theatre was opened in June 1965 with the Australian Ballet’s production of \"Swan Lake\". The old Playhouse, also from 1965, was demolished and rebuilt in 1998. The link between the Theatre and Playhouse buildings has been redeveloped to include the Civic Library and the theatre's bar and administration area.\n\nA sculpture of \"Ethos\" by Tom Bass was commissioned by the National Capital Development Commission in 1959 and unveiled in 1961. \"The NCDC intended that the work would emphasize that Canberra is the non-political centre, the locale of commerce and of private enterprise in its best sense.\" The sculpture was designed to represent the spirit of the community. Bass interpreted this in the figure which he intended \"the love which Canberra people have for their city to be identified with her...I want them to be conscious of her first as an image from a distance...then comes the moment when they become personally involved with her... they feel her looking at them, reflecting their love for the place\".\n\nThe form of the work is highly symbolic. The figure is robed in a fabric richly embossed with emblems and figures representing the Community. The shallow saucer on which the figure stands represents Canberra's nick-name \"Frosty Hollow\". The saucer is 6 sided because the plan for Civic square is itself hexagonal. The surface of the saucer bears a relief map of Canberra and the rolling countryside around it. At the feet of Ethos are indentations that represent the lake that was later to fill the space between the Civic Centre and the administrative part of the city. The bursting sun she holds aloft is symbolic of culture and enlightenment which the presence of Canberra's University, its research organisations and the Diplomatic Corps and so on give to the city. Bass regarded the work as his most important civic work. During the 1960s and 70s, pictures of the sculpture were frequently used in Canberra tourism images.\n\nCivic's major shopping mall is the Canberra Centre. Opened as the Monaro Mall in 1963, it was the first Australian three-storey, fully enclosed and air conditioned shopping centre. It was opened by the Prime Minister Robert Menzies. In 1989 it was substantially redeveloped and renamed the Canberra Centre. A further redevelopment was completed by late 2007, substantially adding to the diversity of retailers and services within it including a Dendy Cinema complex.\n\nCivic has a number of heritage-listed buildings including:\n\n\nCanberra City is Canberra's largest nightclub district and experiences high levels of alcohol-related violence. More than 600 assaults occurred in the city between December 2010 and December 2013, four times more than the next worst suburb in Canberra of Belconnen.\n\nAt the , the population of Canberra City was 4,276, including 31 (0.7%) Indigenous persons and 1,745 (41.0%) Australian-born persons. 99.3% of dwellings were flats, units or apartments (Australian average: 13.1%), while none were semi-detached, row or terrace houses (Australian average: 12.7%) and 0.7% were separate houses (compared to the Australian average of 72.9%). \n\nIn 2016, 41.1% of the population were professionals, compared to the Australian average of 22.2%. Notably 20.4% worked in central government administration, compared to the Australian average of 1.2%, although the ACT-wide average is a similar 18.4%. 52.0% of the population had no religion (compared to the ACT average of 36.2% and the Australian average of 29.6%) and 14.1% did not state their religion. 21.6% of the population was born in China, 2.5% in Malaysia, 2.3% in England, 2.3% in India and 2.2% in Hong Kong. 46.8% of people spoke only English at home. Other languages spoken at home included Mandarin 23.1%, and Cantonese 4.2%. In 2011, 56.4% of the population was foreign born, the highest for any Canberra suburb, except for Acton. 63.8% of its population were attending education, of which 2,178 (79.8%) were enrolled in university or tertiary study.\n\n"}
{"id": "50190637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50190637", "title": "Daniel Bernard (businessman)", "text": "Daniel Bernard (businessman)\n\nDaniel Camille Bernard (born December 1957) is a French businessman, the former chairman of Kingfisher plc.\n\nDaniel Camille Bernard was born in February 1946.\n\nBernard was chairman and CEO of Carrefour from 1992 to 2005.\n\nBernard is the chairman of Kingfisher plc since June 2009, having been deputy chairman since May 2006. He is president of Provestis, his own investment company, and since January 2010, chairman of MAF Retail Group, Dubai. He is senior advisor of TowerBrook Capital Partners since October 2010. He is a non-executive director of Capgemini, and honorary chairman of the HEC Business School Foundation in Paris and a member of HEC's advisory board.\n\nIn June 2017, Bernard was succeeded by Andy Cosslett as chairman of Kingfisher.\n\nHe lives in France.\n"}
{"id": "4725777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725777", "title": "Davie-Brown Index", "text": "Davie-Brown Index\n\nThe Davie-Brown Index (DBI) is an independent index for brand marketers and agencies that quantifies consumer perceptions of more than 2,900 celebrities, including TV and film stars, musical artists, reality TV stars, news personalities, politicians, athletes, and business leaders.\n\nDeveloped in 2006 by Sharp Analytics and white labeled by celebrity talent division of The Marketing Arm, an Omnicom Group Inc. promotion agency, the DBI provides marketers with a systematic approach for quantifying the use of celebrities in their advertising and marketing initiatives. DBI data is designed to help determine a celebrity's ability to influence brand affinity and consumer purchase intent.\n\nAccording to various news articles, the DBI consists of a 1.5 million-member consumer research panel which evaluates a celebrity’s awareness, appeal and relevance to a brand’s image and their influence on consumer buying behavior. Respondents who are aware of a certain celebrity are asked a standard set of questions about that celebrity. Using a six-point scale, consumers evaluate celebrities across seven key attributes: Appeal, Breakthrough, Trendsetter, Influence, Trust, Endorsement, and Aspiration. An overall DBI score is developed each time a celebrity is indexed and can be narrowed down to key demographics, including gender, age and ethnicity.\n\nUpdated weekly, DBI attribute rankings are dynamic and change depending on major events (e.g., industry awards, positive/negative news, etc.).\n\nIn 2013, The Marketing Arm partnered with Repucom, a market research firm, to launch the Index in 12 international markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "6600348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6600348", "title": "Don E. Schultz", "text": "Don E. Schultz\n\nDon Edward Schultz (born January 20, 1934) is Professor Emeritus of Service at Northwestern University's Medill School. He's most notable for his research and writing on Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC).\n\nSchultz earned a Bachelor of Business Administration from University of Oklahoma in 1957, a Master of Arts in Advertising from Michigan State University in 1975, and a Ph.D. in Mass Media from Michigan State in 1977. Schultz began his career in publication sales and management. In 1965, he joined the firm of Tracy-Locke Advertising and Public Relations based in Dallas, Texas where he gained skills in advertising and marketing communications. \n\nIn the mid-1970s, Schultz began teaching advertising at the Michigan State University and in 1977, he joined the Faculty at Northwestern University where he became Department Chair and Associate Dean. \n\nIn 1991, Schultz was part of a team at the Medill School of Journalism, Northwestern University which in conjunction with the American Association of Advertising Agencies (AAAA), began the first empirical study designed to investigate how integrated marketing communications was being used by practitioners. The study focused around understanding the concept and the importance of IMC and also to analyse the extent in which IMC was practiced in all major U.S advertising agencies. When this initial study was replicated by other studies in a number of countries; New Zealand, UK, US, Australia, India, Thailand, South Africa and the Philippines, etc., they demonstrated that the new IMC was far from a \"short-lived managerial fad\" but rather was \"a very clear reaction by advertising agencies and their clients as they are affected by a multitude of factors such as new forms of information technology including development and usage of databases, media fragmentation, client desires for interaction/synergy, and global and regional coordination.\" Collectively these studies suggested that marketing communications was undergoing a transitional phase.\n\nIn 1993, Schultz and his team published the first text-book dedicated to IMC. Their work, simply entitled, \"Integrated Marketing Communications,\" described IMC as a totally new way of looking at the whole of marketing communications, rather than looking at each of the parts separately. Also in 1993, Schultz and the Medill School at Northwestern University changed their curriculum to include a focus on this new idea of integrated marketing communications rather than the traditional program which had emphasised advertising. \n\nOften referred to as the \"father of integrated marketing\", Schultz is the author or co-author of 28 books and 150 trade/academic articles on marketing. His books include: \"Integrated Marketing Communications\" (1993); \"Communicating Globally\" (2000) and \"IMC: The Next Generation\" (2003). He writes a regular column on Integrated Marketing for \"Marketing Management\" magazine, the trade publication of the American Marketing Association.\n\nSchultz lectures and consults for various business groups and currently resides in the Chicago metropolitan area. He is also the president and founder of Agora, Inc. (not to be confused with Agora, Inc.), a consulting firm based in Evanston, Il.\n\nHe was the recipient of: \n\nMarketing communications\n"}
{"id": "12368595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12368595", "title": "Edward Mazur", "text": "Edward Mazur\n\nEdward Mazur (born 1946) is a Polish-American businessman.\n\nMazur was born in Poland, immigrated to the U.S. as a child in the 1960s, and became naturalized in 1969. He obtained a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the Chicago Technical College and held various executive positions at Cargill International and John Deere & Co. After working with those companies on developing their markets in Central Europe, he became involved in a number of his own business ventures in Poland after the end of the Communist rule in 1989. He was a co-founder of Bakoma S.A., the largest yogurt company in Poland, which was eventually acquired by Dannon Company. In 2003, Mazur was listed as one of the 25 richest Poles, with his family's permanent residence in Glenview, IL.\n\nHe was accused by Poland's prosecutors of contracting, in 1998, the murder of Polish National Police chief, General Marek Papała. In August 2014, the Polish prosecution dropped their case against Mazur. After a lengthy prosecution, they cited a lack of evidence against him to conclude that he committed the crime.\n\nMazur was arrested in the U.S. in 2006 on a Polish extradition request. While that request dated back to 2005, the U.S. Justice Department had not taken any action on it until Poland's Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro personally intervened with Attorney General Alberto Gonzales. The Polish government alleged that Mazur had paid Polish organized crime figures $40,000 to murder General Papała. On 20 July 2007, after Mazur spent nine months in federal detention, Poland's request was rejected by Federal Magistrate Arlander Keys (Northern Illinois District Court) for lack of probable cause, mainly because the \nprincipal witness, Artur Zirajewski, lacked credibility in the court's view. Judge Keys harshly criticized the extradition request calling the government's reliance on Zirajewski's identification as \"shocking and offensive\" and stated that in his 12 years on the bench he hadn't even been close to rejecting an extradition.\n\nMazur's lawyer argued that his case exposed weaknesses in the U.S. extradition law dealing with the countries \"lacking many of the legal safeguards of the United States\". He accused Polish authorities of framing his client out of vindictiveness and a desire to smear the leftist opposition, to which Mazur has close ties, and the U.S. government of pursuing this \"paper-thin\" case out of political expedience to placate an allied government.\nIn August 2014, the charges were dropped by Poland. The Polish authorities cited they lacked sufficient evidence that would suggest that he committed the crime.\n"}
{"id": "35920721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35920721", "title": "Ellen Pao", "text": "Ellen Pao\n\nEllen Pao (born 1970) is an American investor and activist who co-founded the diversity consulting non-profit organization Project Include. She was previously a partner at Kapor Capital and the Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer at the Kapor Center for Social Impact before leaving in 2018 to focus on her role as Project Include's CEO. Other positions she has held include interim CEO of social media technology company Reddit, investment partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, board director at Flipboard, and corporate attorney at Cravath, Swaine & Moore.\n\nSince becoming known, in 2012, for filing a gender discrimination suit against former employer Kleiner Perkins, Pao has expressed vocal criticism of the hiring and promotion practices in Silicon Valley. In 2015, unpopular decisions made during Pao's tenure at Reddit generated a wave of controversy that culminated in her stepping down. The backlash she received sparked debates both on the treatment of women in technology and the need for transparency in a company that relies on volunteers.\n\nEllen Pao was born in 1970 in New Jersey. She is the middle child of three daughters born to Tsyh-Wen Pao and Young-Ping Pao, immigrants from Taiwan. Her father, Young-Ping Pao, was a professor at New York University's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. Her mother, Tsyh-Wen Pao (née Lee) worked as an engineer in computer sciences at the University of Pennsylvania. Ellen Pao is fluent in English and Mandarin and first learned to code from her mother at age ten. The Pao family raised their children in Maplewood, New Jersey. Young-Ping Pao died in 1987 when Ellen was in the 12th grade of high school.\n\nPao’s maternal grandparents are Yu-Wen Lee and Ching-Hsin (née Liu) Lee, who were from Baoding in the Hebei province near Beijing. Pao’s maternal grandfather was a graduate of the Republic of China Military Academy, He later went on to serve as a commander in the Chinese Civil War under Chiang Kai-shek and, in 1948, moved the family to Taiwan, where he retired with the rank of Colonel in 1960. In October 1972, his wife and daughter Elizabeth moved to the New York City area to join Pao’s mother and aunt and uncle who were already studying in the US. Yu-Wen Lee was the fourth child of his father, merchant Lien-Ren Lee, Pao's great grandfather.\n\nPao graduated from Princeton University, the \"alma mater\" of her two sisters, with a bachelor's degree in Electrical Engineering in 1991. Immediately after, she attended Harvard Law School, where she earned a Juris Doctor in 1994. After two years of working, Pao returned to attend Harvard Business School, where she received an MBA in 1998.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1996, Pao worked as a corporate attorney at Cravath, Swaine & Moore. In 1998, Pao worked at WebTV. Pao worked at several companies in Silicon Valley including BEA Systems as Senior Director of Corporate Business Development from 2001 until 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Pao joined Kleiner Perkins, an established venture capital firm in San Francisco, as technical chief of staff for John Doerr, a senior partner, a job that required degrees in engineering, law, and business and experience in enterprise software. In 2007 she was appointed a Crown Fellow of the Aspen Institute on the recommendation of Doerr, a trustee. Also in 2007, she became a junior investing partner with Ted Schlein as her boss. While at Kleiner Perkins, Pao led the company's expansion into China. After several years with Schlein's team, Pao was passed over for a senior partner position. According to Pao, she had the job title of junior partner from her date of hiring and was promised an opportunity to move into an investing role. Doerr, who has expressed awareness of what he considers a gender gap at venture capital firms, mentored Pao, liberally providing feedback, but, in the end, agreed with the other senior partners who had made negative evaluations of her work at the firm. It was Pao's contention, in her suit for gender discrimination, that men with similar profiles were, nevertheless, promoted.\n\nOn May 10, 2012, Pao filed a gender discrimination lawsuit against her employer. The lawsuit alleged workplace retaliation by Ajit Nazre, a male junior partner, resulting from his and Pao's romantic affair. She continued to work at the firm until October 1. Pao claimed that she was terminated abruptly while Kleiner Perkins claimed that she was given a month to accept a paid five-month transition to an operating role. Pao's lawyer said she was fired in retaliation for her lawsuit and amended the complaint to add that cause of action. The firm said Pao was terminated for performance reasons unrelated to the lawsuit. On March 27, 2015, the jury decided the case in favor of the defendant on all counts.\n\nPao joined Reddit in 2013 as the head of business development and strategic partnerships. One of her first investments made in this capacity strengthened the ties between Reddit and its de facto image host Imgur. She stated that a goal for the following year was making it easier for people to become Redditors. Pao became the interim Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in November 2014 after Yishan Wong resigned. Following efforts by Wong to scale back salary negotiation, Pao decided to give two final offers (one with more cash, one with more equity) to all prospective employees. As motivation for the change, she cited findings that women were more likely to be penalized for attempting to negotiate pay. After seeing that Reddit's previous offers were not correlated with gender, Pao stated that the new policy was still the fairest, as well as a stepping stone to having publicly posted salaries. One of the largest changes to the website made under Pao was the banning of revenge porn in March 2015. Other social networks, that removed such images in the following months, have been widely referred to as following Reddit's model. In June and July 2015, Pao was the subject of criticism and harassment by Reddit users after five Reddit communities (subreddits) were banned for harassment and Reddit's director of talent was fired. A Change.org petition requesting her removal reached 200,000 signatures and on July 10, it was announced that Pao had resigned from Reddit \"by mutual agreement\".\n\nPao subsequently founded the non-profit organization Project Include with Erica Baker, Tracy Chou, Freada Kapor Klein and four other women in the technology industry. Aimed at startups with 25 to 1,000 employees, the group develops human resources advice in a series of meetings with clients and publishes anonymized progress reports under a Creative Commons license. Reports on the aftermath of \"Pao v. Kleiner Perkins\" included speculation that Pao had agreed not to write a book detailing her experiences at the company. In November 2015, Pao revealed that this was not the case and later confirmed that she was writing a memoir. In a May 2016 interview, Pao stated that she planned to finish the book before seeking a full-time job. One month later, the book was acquired by Spiegel and Grau and given the title \"Reset: My Fight for Inclusion and Lasting Change\". The book has been shortlisted for the 2017 \"Financial Times\" and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award.\n\nOn May 10, 2012, Pao filed a gender discrimination suit against Kleiner Perkins which went to trial in late February 2015. It was covered by the national media and elicited broad comment regarding the issues raised. The case was live blogged and tweeted constantly, to the point of providing both humorous and serious feedback to lawyers and witnesses. The trial, lasting 24 days, resulted in a favorable verdict for Kleiner Perkins.\n\nWhile the trial was taking place, a gender discrimination suit was filed against Twitter by Tina Huang and a suit alleging sexual and racial discrimination was filed against Facebook by Chia Hong. Law professor Joan Williams commented that it would have been \"quite a coincidence\" if these actions were not influenced by Ellen Pao. More broadly, employment lawyers described an increase in the number of women coming forward with claims of gender inequality and the term \"Pao effect\" was coined to describe the resulting increase in lawsuits. Though many reporters commented positively on the changing culture, some expressed a foreboding that companies would be less likely to hire women during a period of abundant legal action. Discussion of the trial's influence continued after the conclusion of \"Pao v. Kleiner Perkins\" when a discrimination claim was made by Microsoft researcher Katie Moussouris.\n\nFollowing the trial, Kleiner Perkins sought $972,814 in legal costs and offered to withdraw the fee if Pao declined to appeal the verdict. On June 1, 2015, Pao filed to appeal, one week before the deadline. On June 5, Kleiner Perkins claimed that Pao wanted $2.7 million to not appeal, an amount which they called \"improper and excessive\". The judge ruled on June 18 that Pao would only be responsible for $275,966 citing the economic resources of both parties under the Fair Employment and Housing Act. Pao filed an objection to this with the argument that an award against the plaintiff could result in a chilling effect on future discrimination cases. On September 10, 2015, Pao wrote a guest post for Re/code in which she urged companies to be more open about bias accusations made by their employees. The post stated that she was deciding not to appeal but still paying $276,000 due to an additional stipulation by Kleiner Perkins that the fee could only be waived after signing a non-disparagement agreement. However, one week later when Pao formally dropped her appeal, Kleiner Perkins filed to close the case without payment per its original announcement.\n\nOn June 10, 2015, a post on Reddit, signed by Pao and two other executives, announced that five subreddits were being banned for fostering off-site harassment. One such community had over 150,000 subscribers. Multiple change.org petitions calling for Pao's resignation were created by displeased Reddit users and the most popular one reached 10,000 signatures in the days following the change. Some users began posting hateful comments and images about Pao on Reddit and other websites. Other complaints about the site focused on inadequate moderation tools and the fact that some posts critical of Ellen Pao's lawsuit had been deleted by moderators.\nOpposition increased on July 2 when large sections of Reddit were set to private to protest the dismissal of Victoria Taylor, Reddit's director of talent, known for co-ordinating the Ask Me Anything interviews. Expressing frustration over the decline in communication from Reddit management, AMA moderators stated that they had only learned about the firing indirectly after it happened. Despite one post to the contrary, Taylor's dismissal was widely attributed to Pao, with some commentators suggesting that the move diminished her credibility as an advocate for female employees. She received increased harassment as a result and the petition for her removal surpassed 200,000 signatures. On July 3, Pao issued apologies through Reddit and Time magazine. However, the Reddit post was thought to have been deleted after it received enough downvotes to lose visibility. In a longer post on July 6, she apologized for poor communication between staff members and for not delivering on promises. Pao resigned on July 10 and was replaced by Reddit co-founder Steve Huffman.\n\nOn July 12, former CEO Yishan Wong who had previously defended the five bans on Quora began a series of posts which he referred to as \"declassifying a lot of things\". The first drew attention to the fact that Victoria Taylor was fired by Alexis Ohanian. When shown that the media was covering this post, Pao tweeted \"thanks for not blaming me for it\". In a later post, which recalled two instances of Pao arguing against purging hateful subreddits, Wong sharply criticized the movement against her and warned about stricter policies under the site's cofounders. Huffman followed this by enacting a policy to reduce the prominence of some xenophobic communities and ban some others. On July 13, Reddit's chief engineer Bethanye Blount left the company for unrelated reasons and opined that Pao did not receive enough support from the board. Specifically, she referenced the glass cliff phenomenon in which women are allegedly given disproportionately unstable leadership positions. On July 16, Ellen Pao wrote about the difficulty of combating harassment while preserving \"edgy content\". The editorial described what she called \"one of the largest trolling attacks in history\" and the subsequent outpouring of support.\n\nPao married Roger Kuo. They later divorced. She then married Buddy Fletcher. They met through Aspen Institute functions during the summer of 2007, after they were both appointed Crown Fellows. Pao and Fletcher have one daughter. Pao is a vegetarian.\n\n"}
{"id": "4589889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4589889", "title": "Erik Penser", "text": "Erik Penser\n\nNils Wilhelm Erik Penser (born August 22, 1942) is a Swedish financier and businessman.\n\nPenser was born in Eslöv, Sweden, the son Wilhelm Penser, a lawyer, and Elisabeth (née Herrmann). After having studied law at Lund University, Erik Penser commenced a career as a stockbroker at \"Bankirfirman Langenskiöld\", which later became Carnegie Investment Bank. Together with Thomas Fischer he worked intensively to develop the firm’s business, laying the foundation for his private wealth. Penser's strategy was risky; he bought shares, used them as collateral and borrowed even more money to leverage his holdings. Eventually he gained the controlling interest of several large companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange.\n\nDuring the 1980s Penser was one of Sweden's most influential businessmen. Through his holding company, Yggdrasil, he controlled both Nobel Industrier and Finans AB Gamlestaden. His massive financial leverage and the harsh business environment experienced during the Swedish banking crisis in 1990-1994 forced Penser to cease control of his holdings, which were sold to Nordbanken (which became Nordea) for the symbolic sum of SEK 1 each. At a press conference Björn Wahlström, the chairman of Nordbanken, said that Erik Penser was 'destitute and finished as a businessman'. The transaction resulted in a prolonged legal dispute between Penser and Nordbanken.\n\nIn 1992 Penser regained control of Yggdrasil, the consideration was once again SEK 1. The vice Chairman of Nordbanken, Jacob Palmstierna, admitted that Penser had been under extreme pressure when he was forced to sign the agreement with Nordbanken. Since then Penser has rebuilt an estimated net worth of SEK 1 billion, with interests in both Sweden and abroad. In Sweden, his main holdings includes Erik Penser Bankaktiebolag, with activities in corporate finance, trading, research and private wealth management and Pensum, an insurance and pension advisory firm. Erik Penser resides, since 1976, in Compton Beauchamp, England.\n\nErik Penser is known as a distinguished collector, collecting - amongst many objects - old share certificates, film posters, magazines and bank notes.\n\n"}
{"id": "38476979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38476979", "title": "Frederick Estcourt Bucknall", "text": "Frederick Estcourt Bucknall\n\nFrederick Estcourt Bucknall (6 July 1835 – 4 June 1896) was an English-born publican, brewer and politician in the early days of the colony of South Australia.\n\nBucknall was a member of the Estcourts of Estcourt, an influential old family, in the counties of Gloucester and Wiltshire, but born in London, where his father, William Bucknall of Crutched Friars, was Commodore of the Royal Thames Yacht Club.\n\nShortly after he arrived in South Australia around 1860 via Melbourne, the original Torrens Dam was nearly completed, and he built a fleet of fine pleasure craft which he placed on the lake for hire, but the dam failed and was washed away, putting paid to his enterprise. He built a boatshed on the Port River to the south-east of where the Jervois Street bridge was later built, and created a great deal of interest in sculling on the Port River. He gained approval as a Licensed Victualler and built the South Australian Club Hotel in St Vincent Street, Port Adelaide near the site of his boatshed. He married the widow of Mr. Henry Haussen, a proprietor of the Hindmarsh Brewery.\n\nIn 1878 Bucknall and Arthur Harvey (later to be his parliamentary colleague) formed the Grange Land and Investment Company, to develop the suburb of The Grange.\n\nThe business prospered and he became a wealthy man, in 1883 building a magnificent mansion \"Estcourt House\" on the seafront between The Grange and Glanville. He and Mrs. Bucknall went on a visit to England. While they were away the land boom turned to bust, and with the failure of the Commercial Bank of South Australia in 1886, he lost much of his fortune and was forced to relinquish his mansion to the AMP Society and find employment in the office of E. Benda and Co. of Grenfell Street.\n\nBucknall died at his residence in Childers Street, North Adelaide.\n\nBucknall entered Parliament as a member for West Torrens on 8 April 1881 as a colleague of W. H. Bean, and was elected for another three years in 1884 with Arthur Harvey ( – 25 January 1902) with a break 1885–1886 while he visited England for his health.\n\nBucknall was a supporter of projects to build the Outer Harbor and the North–South Railway, but for some he was remembered as having instituted mandatory horse troughs outside licensed premises.\n\nBucknall was Mayor of Hindmarsh in 1881, 1882 and 1883, a position he filled with distinction.\n\nIn his youth he was a boxer, athlete and president of the Hindmarsh Cricket Club, of which he was patron for over ten years prior to his death.\n\nHe was an enthusiastic rower, swimmer and yachtsman. He went in for boatbuilding, and owned the yachts \"Brilliant\", \"Rosa\" and \"Enchantress\", which he bought from Sir Thomas Elder (and eventually sold to Mr. Cunningham).\n\nHe was for some time secretary of the Licensed Victuallers' Association, and president for six years. He was made a life member in recognition of this service.\n\nHe was an excellent musician, and was at one time organist of the South Australian Grand Lodge of Freemasons, of which he was a member.\n\nOn 1 October 1874 he married Rosa Haussen (née Catchlove) (7 December 1840 – 23 November 1899), the widow of brewer Henry Herman Haussen (1830–1870); her children by her first husband included:\nChildren by her marriage to Bucknall were three daughters and a son, born in Adelaide, South Australia\n\nRosa married one more time, to John Huxtable Wesley Perryman (c. 1837 – 1923) and moved to Mount Magnet, Western Australia.\n\nIt should be noted that, by the terms of their father's will, the children of H. H. Haussen were very well provided for and were prominent in business and society, while those of F. E. Bucknall shared their parents' straitened circumstances, and have lapsed into obscurity.\n\nEstcourt House was purchased by the trustees of the legacy of Jessie Brown (ca.1826 – 13 November 1892), wealthy widow of pastoralist James Brown of Avenue Ranges station (near Naracoorte) and Waverley House, Glen Osmond, for the care of crippled children (most suffering or recovering from tuberculosis, poliomyelitis or rheumatic fever) and the aged blind. The building was the prominent location for the 1990 movie \"Struck by Lightning\".\n\n This spiral-bound work is available only at the Northern Territory Library, and may not be borrowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "8501960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8501960", "title": "George A. Burton", "text": "George A. Burton\n\nGeorge Aubrey Burton, Jr. (June 21, 1926 – June 10, 2014), was a Certified Public Accountant and the last elected municipal finance commissioner in Shreveport, Louisiana, a position he filled from 1971 to 1978. He was the first Republican since Reconstruction to have been elected to citywide office in Shreveport.\n\nBurton was born in Texarkana, Arkansas, to George A. Burton, Sr. (1903–1980) and the former Theo Simmons (1908–1983). The Burtons thereafter resided in Alexandria in Central Louisiana and relocated to Shreveport in 1935. Burton's grandfather was a railroad employee, and his father was secretary-treasurer of Cahn Electric Company in Shreveport.\n\nBurton attended Line Avenue Elementary School in Shreveport and graduated in 1941 at the age of fifteen from C.E. Byrd High School in Shreveport. He enlisted in the United States Navy and entered the Seabees at the age of sixteen. From 1943 to 1946, he served in the Pacific Theater of Operations of World War II. He was a life member of Disabled American Veterans. He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting from Centenary College, where he later taught accounting. He passed the C.P.A. examination in 1952.\n\nAfter graduation from Centenary College, he was employed by the Operkuch, McGuirt, Watts and West accounting firm, of which he became a partner in 1953. However, he left the company in 1954 to begin his own firm. He was active in the American Institute Of CPA's, the Louisiana Society of CPA's, and the Association of Governmental Accountants.\n\nA lifelong Republican, he ran unsuccessfully on November 8, 1966, for a seat on the Caddo Parish School Board, as did his fellow Republican George Despot, later the state party chairman. Her subsequently served on the Bond Issue and Rapid Learner study committees of the Caddo school board/\n\nIn September 1971, Shreveport Finance Commissioner Dwight E. Saur, a Democrat, died after serving less than a year of his second elected term. Burton won the special election to fill the remaining three years of the term at took office on December 14, 1971. Despite his overt Republicanism, Burton carved his niche with his Democratic colleagues. In 1974, Burton was reelected finance commissioner with 17,488 votes (68.8 percent) over Democrat (later Republican) David R. Carroll (1926-2011), a Mississippi native and a Caddo Parish police juror, received 7,938 ballots (31.2 percent). That year, Burton had the tacit support of Democratic Mayor Calhoun Allen, who won a second term. Under the commission form of government then in effect, changed in November 1978 to the mayor-council format, the mayor was technically the \"commissioner of administration.\"\n\nRunning with Burton in 1974 was another Republican, Billy Guin, who waged his second campaign against Public Utilities Commissioner William \"Bill\" Collins and polled 43 percent of the vote. Collins resigned in 1977, and Guin won the seat in a special election. Guin was in effect only the second Republican in modern times to hold municipal office in Shreveport. Serving with Burton were Public Safety Commissioner George W. D'Artois and Public Works Commissioner Don Hathaway, both Democrats.\n\nD'Artois was forced from office in a multi-faceted political scandal that surfaced in the spring of 1976. At one point before Attorney General William J. Guste was called to investigate, the five commissioners, including D'Artois, were conducting their own probe; \"the city investigating itself,\" said the critics. Burton spoke out against the situation, which he found particularly alarming: \"What's going on now is devastating to the city's image. I will favor anything that brings some final disposition to this matter. The city cannot move on anything until this is cleared up. We couldn't pull a public election right now endorsing motherhood.\"\n\nFrom 1960 to 1980, Burton was chairman of the Caddo Parish Republican Executive Committee. From 1972 to 1980, he was secretary of the Louisiana Republican State Central Committee, a 144-member body which meets periodically in Baton Rouge. He was president of the Caddo Parish Board of Election Supervisors from 1978 to 2008.\n\nBurton married the former Joan (pronounced JO ANN) Cunningham (1928–2002), who lived in Amory, Mississippi and Memphis, Tennessee, before her parents, William and Lucille Cunningham, relocated to Shreveport. The couple had two children, son George A. Burton, III (1948–2010), a poet in Shreveport, and his wife Melissa Fowle Burton, and daughter Sandra Burton \"Sandy\" Batten (born 1950), the wife of Rick Alan Batten (born 1954) of Maumelle near Little Rock, Arkansas. After Joan's death, Burton married Gloria Nell Brantley (1930-2013), a native of Homer, Louisiana, and the widow of Bernard Garvin (1927–1997) of Shreveport. They were no longer married at the time of her death.\n\nBurton was a charter member of the Shreveport chapter of Sertoma International and was highly active in his younger years in the Jaycees as the Shreveport president, state vice-president, and a national director. He was a founding board member of East Ridge Country Club. He was a director and treasurer of the Shreveport Legal Aid Society. Burton was a member of the United Methodist Church.\n\nHe died in Little Rock eleven days before his 88th birthday. A memorial service was held on June 20, 2014 at Noel Memorial United Methodist Chuirch in Shreveport.\n\n"}
{"id": "42689739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42689739", "title": "HSA Foundation", "text": "HSA Foundation\n\nThe HSA Foundation is a not-for-profit engineering organization of industry and academia that works on the development of the Heterogeneous System Architecture (HSA), a set of royalty-free computer hardware specifications, as well as open source software development tools needed to use HSA features in application software.\n\nThe HSA Foundation aims to develop and define features and interfaces for various types of computer processors, including CPUs, graphics processors, DSPs; as well as the memory systems that connect these. The resulting architecture, HSA, aims to make it easier to program parallel systems built from heterogeneous combinations of these devices.\n\nThe HSA Foundation was founded by AMD, ARM Holdings, Imagination Technologies, MediaTek, Qualcomm, Samsung and Texas Instruments. Further members include licensors and licensees of semiconductor intellectual property, developers of CPUs, GPUs, DSPs and application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) based upon own and/or licensed technology, academic partners such as the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and the University of Bologna, and the not-for-profit engineering organization Linaro. The HSA Foundation has itself joined the Linux Foundation.\n\nHSA Foundation engineering works with upstream projects on a set of requirements that are determined by the Technical Steering Committee.\n"}
{"id": "40249948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40249948", "title": "Heah Joo Seang", "text": "Heah Joo Seang\n\nHeah Joo Seang () was an Malayan politician, business leader, rubber magnate, philanthropist and especially a supporter of education. Malaysia, as it has since become, only existed after Joo Seang's death. His contributions span three distinct periods in the country's history: the British Malaya period, the Malayan Union period, and the Federation of Malaya period.\n\nThe son of Heah Ah-Kia (or Heah Ah Kiah), Joo Seang was born in Sungei Nibong Kechil, a small village in Province Wellesley, Penang on 2 November 1899.\n\nHeah Joo Seang began his education at a Chinese school in his hometown. Later on, he was sent to live in Georgetown, Penang. His uncle, Heah Lye Hiang, registered him to study in St. Xavier's Institution, a Christian missionary school, founded in 1852. He sat for, and passed the Cambridge School Certificate when he was only fourteen years old. Later on in life, when Joo Seang became successful in business, and gain prominence in politics, SXI (as the school is popularly known to the local people) benefited from his generosity. His legacy and association with the school was forever engraved in its history, when the school auditorium (fully funded by him) was named after him. For him to have contributed so willingly, he must have felt a deep sense of gratitude towards his alma mater.\n\nHis working life began as a clerk in his uncle Heah Lye Hiang's tapioca mill, earning $40 a month.\n\nOver the span of 15 years he had led three political parties – the Independence of Malaya Party, Party Negara and the Penang MCA as well as serving as national treasurer for the parent body. His last public appearance was during the official visit of MCA national President, Tan Siew-Sin, in March. Although he had lost his voice – he had already been ill when he travelled through Borneo on party business in February – he insisted on addressing the Alliance rally in Siew-Sin's honour. Soon after he flew to England for a throat operation. He died in Brompton Hospital on 14 May. He died in London on 14 May 1962, leaving behind a wife, Lim Soh-Liang (or Lim Su-Lian), eight sons (Heah Hock-Khoon, Heah Hock-Soon, Heah Hock-Lye, Heah Hock-Meng, Heah Hock-Thye, Heah Hock-Aun, Heah Hock-Hin, Heah Hock-Heng), three daughters (Beng-Hong, Phee-Hong, Kwee-Hong), one son-in-law, six daughters-in-law and 15 grandchildren to mourn his loss. Unknown to many, Joo Seang has a second wife. Her name is Eu Phooi Chen. It was quite common at that time for wealthy men to have more than one wife. It was during the period of the Japanese occupation of Malaya when Phooi Chen had borne him two sons namely Paul Heah Hock Teik (born 1943) and Jeffrey Heah Hock Hai (born 1944).\n\nAbout a thousand people gathered at the Penang Bayan Lepas airport to receive his body which was flown back from London.\n\nHis family had decided to follow the old custom concerning death that happens outside of a person's home – when a person dies outside of his home, he cannot be brought back into the house. Accordingly, when he was welcomed at the airport, they did so as if he were still alive. There was no weeping and no black clothes or other signs of mourning until his body was back at his mansion, \"Goodwood,\" in Macalister Road, and his death then announced by a representative of the family. His body was borne in a coffin draped in red and was accompanied by a motorcade nearly five (5) miles long. The announcement of his death was made by Rev. Soo Hneah Hee Seong, a \"kee-tong\" (medium), after which the mourning officially began. his body lay in state until Sunday, 21 May 1962 where it was removed for burial at the Kwangtung and Tengchow Cemetery at Mount Erskine.\n\nMalayan Chinese Association (MCA) national President, Tan Siew Sin said, the death of Heah Joo Seang left a gap that would be difficult to fill. \"He was a tower of strength nor only to the MCA's central working committee but also the Penang organisation,\" the President wrote in a letter to Joo Seang's eldest son, Heah Hock-Khoon. \"He infused new life into the Penang MCA and their loss is indeed a very grievous one... ...Apart from the MCA, the country will always remember him for his munificent gifts to charities and deserving institutions... ...I think it is only right that I should put these sentiments on record.\"\n\nLa Sallean Brother Visitor T. Michael said the Christian Brothers had reason to grieve over the loss of a \"great old boy and a very generous benefactor.\" He said that Joo Seang was unsparing in his attachment to his old school and worked towards its progress and improvement with genuine affection and loyalty. In referring to two new schools completed at Jalan Brother James and Kampong Bharu, he said, \"These schools will stand as monuments to a public-spirited citizen whose departure leaves a gap which it will be very difficult to fill.\"\n\nReporting on his funeral, the Straits Times noted, \"Crowds swelling to well over 50,000 lined an eight-mile route today for the funeral of the late Mr. Heah Joo Seang, millionaire rubber magnate and Penang MCA President, whose body was flown home last week from London where he died on May 14. The two-mile procession in which 15 associations and 12 schools took part, was the longest seen in Penang for many years. 5,000 people. Three Cabinet Ministers together with the Governor of Penang, Raja Tun Uda Al-Haj, and the Chief Minister, Inche Aziz Ibrahim, were among the 5,000 people who followed the hearse on its last journey. Early arrivals were Tun Leong Yew Koh, Minister of Justice, Mr. Tan Siew Sin, Minister of Finance and National President of the MCA, Dato Ong Yoke Lin, Minister of Health and Social Welfare, and Mr. Cheah Theam Swee, assistant Minister of Commerce and Industry. The Prime Minister, Tengku Abdul Rahman, the Deputy Prime Minister, Tun Abdul Razak, and the Governor, Raja Tun Uda Al-Haj, were among those who sent wreaths. Crowds started to gather from an early hour. Before the procession lined up, the coffin was taken out of the Heah mansion, Goodwood, in Macalister Road, and laid on the lawn where representatives of various schools and organisations paid their last respects to the late Mr. Heah. Mr. Yeo Hui Tung, a leader of the Teochew community, then read out an eulogy. Although timed to start at 11.30 a.m., the procession could not get moving until 12.15 p.m. Led by Senator Cheah Seng Khim and other members of the funeral committee, it proceeded along Macalister Road to the Church of Seven Sorrows where the first stage of the procession broke up. 'Last look.' It re-assembled later in front of the Teochew Association at Chulia Street and made its way to Beach Street to give the late Mr. Heah a \"last look\" at his office, Hock Lye Co., Ltd. The hearse, followed by 200 cars, then proceeded to Mount Erskine Cemetery where the burial took place at 5. p.m. after full Buddhist rites. Three school bands—St. Xavier's corps of drums and the Han Chiang and Jit Sin High School bands—marched with the procession. Among the 15 political parties, local guilds and associations which took part were UMNO and MCA youths, MCA women, UMNO and MIC members, the Teochew Hoay Kuan, the Kwangtung and Tengchow Associations, the Chinese Chamber of Commerce and the Penang Rubber Trade Association. Flags of various clubs and associations with which the late Mr. Heah was actively connected flew their flags at half-mast today.\"\n\nA Heah Joo Seang Scholarship Fund was set up in his memory, his family contributing $10,000 to get the fund going.\n\nHe was Managing Partner of Hin Giap, the largest rubber exporter in Penang, and one of the biggest employers of labour of Malaya in 1931; Chairman of Amalgamated Amusements (1932–1937); Chairman of Lam Seng Cheong (Ipoh); Chairman of Synn Cheong and Company (Taiping); Director of Khiam Seng Trading Company (Ipoh); Director of Kim Hin Company; and owner of Heah Joo Seang Rubber Estates. He was also the Proprietor of the Wembley Dance Hall, Penang.\n\nFollowing a notice in the Straits Times in August, Joo-Seang had bought from the Federation's Custodian of Property, about 26,000 acres of rubber estate land in Johore, at $6,000,000, by the start of October 1951. The transaction was the biggest of its kind up to that time involved property in the Kota Tinggi area and included Pengerang (4,632 acres), Senti (7,711), Belungkor (813), Telok Sengat (8,173), Sungei Ambok (843), Nanyo (3,089), Asahi (1,079), Sungei Seluyut (574), Tanjong Buai (132), and Buntu (425). This, on top of everything else he had done, pushed him to the forefront of the rubber business. He also actively led the industry to resolve issues. In February 1951 he convened and presided over a meeting of Penang merchants, both European and Asian, at the Penang Rubber Exchange to address the breakdown in discussions between the Penang Employers' Association and the owners of local lighters, the latter of whom were demanding a 25 percent increase in rates. The breakdown between the parties had negatively affected the trade of Penang. The matter, now being brought back to the table was resolved, and trading resumed.\n\nHe advocated finding new uses for natural rubber including laying rubber roads and rubber flooring in offices.\n\nAt a dinner hosted by the Penang Rubber Trade Association on 18 March 1961 to celebrate his Johan Mangku Negara award from the King, Joo Seang, then still the President of the association, said he would still be engaged in the rubber trade if he had to live his life over. \"It is a fascinating game in which one has to pit one's brains against the world.\" He had been connected to the organisation for a long time, having first served that body as Honorary Secretary, forty (40) years earlier.\n\nWho's Who in Malaya 1939: A Biographical Record of Prominent Members of Malaya's Community in Official, Professional and Commercial Circles, Singapore: Fishers Ltd (1939) provides a summary of the varied roles that Joo Seang played in Malaya:\nHe was also\n\nHe was also President, Li Tek Siah; President, Chinese Benevolent Association; President, Rubber Trade Association; President, Federation of Malaya Rubber Trade Association, Member of the Board of Managers of St. Xavier's Institution, Chairman, Han Chiang School and bore office among very many other organisations.\n\nOn August 1956, Heah Joo Seang hosted a dinner at his residence (the Goodwood mansion) in MacAlister road, Georgetown, Penang, in honour of the visit of Lord William Reid. Lord Reid was the Chairman of the Commission which was set up in England for the purpose of drafting and defining the Constitution of the Federation of Malaya. During his dinner speech, Lord Reid said, \"We intend to do our utmost to leave some trace of your devotion to this Country in the shape of the Constitution\", in reference to Joo Seang's championing of the rights of the straits born Chinese.\n\nThe drafting of the Constitution of the Federation of Malaya began the process toward the establishment of a new Government, after England agreed to concede independence to Malaya. The Commission was set up in March 1956 to seek \"the views of political parties, non-government organization and individuals on the form of government and racial structure appropriate to this Country\".\n\nJoo Seang was a strong supporter of Malayan politician Sir Onn Jaafar, founder of the United Malays National Organisation and Chief Minister of Johore. When the latter was facing political attacks, shortly after the Onn retired as Member for Home Affairs and Chairman of the Rural and Industrial Development Authority, Joo Seang, said in his defence, \"Sir Onn has been falsely accused of being anti-Chinese. He has been severely criticised by some so-called Malay leaders who only want to gratify their own selfish ends.\"\n\nJoo Seang was passionate about sports and education and these, more than anything attracted his interest. While not a comprehensive list, some of his gifts included:\n\nIn January 1961 he was awarded the Johan Mangku Negara (JMN) at the King's installation honours that year.\n\n"}
{"id": "17350380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17350380", "title": "Heti Világgazdaság", "text": "Heti Világgazdaság\n\nSince its founding in 1979, closely modeled on \"the Economist\" in style and content HVG \"(formerly called Heti Világgazdaság, meaning Weekly World Economy )\" has been Hungary’s leading economic and political weekly both in terms of circulation and readership.\n\nAs a regular source of news and information HVG has a significant influence on business decision makers and other stakeholder groups. With its editorial office in Budapest, HVG provides objective information about domestic and international politics, economy and society. Capitalizing on its all-round column structure HVG puts great emphasis on the presentation of public issues and their context, besides reporting of recent events in cultural life and news from science and technology.\n\nHVG's online news portal hvg.hu which is available on all platforms: mobile, tablet, android and iOS applications. With its news and analyzes HVG reaches more than 1.5 million people every week on its various print and digital platforms.\n\nEver since its foundation HVG stands for independent journalism and free expression. In April 2018, HVG launched a supportive membership program in which readers who join the HVG community can, in return for their financial support, enjoy many benefits in addition to diverse, independent and factual information.\n\nThe magazine was very important in the years spanning the transition from communism in airing new ideas and challenging boundaries. During the same period it was also a leading investigative publication. HVG Publishing Co. was founded in 1989. In 2003 Westdeutsche Allgemeine Zeitung (WAZ) acquired 75% of the magazine. In 2014 WAZ (Funke) redeemed its majority stake, which was bought back by former HVG shareholder, management and editorial staff, and HVG was again in Hungarian hands. In response to changes in the market, digital content gained more and more importance within HVG Publishing's activities, and the product portfolio continued to expand. Apart from the weekly magazine and its specials, annexes and numerous professional or entertaining periodicals, HVG Publishing Co. has become one of the largest book publishers in Hungary, while conferences, seminars or even the largest Hungarian Job Fair continue to color the Publisher's product range.\n\nPolitical and power measures in the second half of the 2010s are increasingly breathing air from market-based media companies and increasingly discouraging the survival of independent journalism. In this hostile market environment HVG's goal and mission remains to provide independent and factual information to readers. The slogan of HVG also expresses this mission while reflecting on the current situation. ’Darkness does not last forever’, along with the statement ’Let there be light’, with which HVG encourages and sympathizes with its readers, reminiscing of the first years spent in an almost ’half-illegitimacy’ under the socialist regime.\n\nThe politics that undermine independent press and the expansion of international social media and search giants \"(Facebook, Google)\" in the advertising market puts under unprecedented pressure HVG’s business model built on copy sales and advertisements. HVG has launched a Membership Program in April 2018, whereby readers who join the HVG community can enjoy many benefits in return for their financial support in addition to diverse, independent and factual information.\n\nSome articles are also available online and in English.\n\nHVG's iconic cover pages always work on one of the main themes of the week, mostly depicting ironic humor. In the 80's, headlines were mostly not photos, but graphics featuring suggestive hints. These covers intended to affect the sense of humor of readers sensitive to the criticism of the ruling political system. After the change of regime, cover pages became partly more concrete, and partly continued the earlier tradition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13677326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13677326", "title": "James Caan (entrepreneur)", "text": "James Caan (entrepreneur)\n\nJames Caan (born Nazim Khan, 28 December 1960) is a British-Pakistani entrepreneur and television personality.\n\nHe is best known as a former investor on the BBC television programme \"Dragons’ Den\", in which he was one of the Dragons from 2007 to 2010. More recently, he has hosted \"The Business Class\" on CNBC, a series which sees him joined by experts from a cross-section of industries to analyse and advise innovative UK small and medium enterprises. He is also Chairman of the UK Government's Start Up Loans Scheme, which supports entrepreneurs with funding and mentoring to start their own business.\n\nCaan initially achieved success in the recruitment industry, founding the recruitment company Alexander Mann in 1985, which he sold in 2002. In 1993, he co-founded the executive head-hunting firm Humana International, in which he sold his stake in 1999. He is also the founder and current CEO of the UK-based private equity firm Hamilton Bradshaw.\n\nIn 2013, he was named Chairman of the Year at the International Business Awards.\n\nCaan has been involved in a number of charitable activities and founded the James Caan Foundation in 2006.\n\nBorn in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan, Caan's family emigrated to the United Kingdom when he was two years old. His father came to the UK without any money or knowing the language but was able to build a successful business from scratch. He subsequently established a clothing company in Brick Lane, east London. Caan's father had intended him to join the family business once his formal education was completed, but Caan decided he wanted to find his own way in the world. At 16, before he had begun his O-Levels, he left home and moved to a flat in Kensington. This led to Caan's being estranged from his father for many years.\n\nOther than a Saturday job at Mr Buyright, Caan had no formal experience of work and so went to a recruitment agency to find some. His first job was door to door sales, which he found tiring. At this point, he knew he wanted to work in an office. He went back to the recruitment agency and asked for something that was indoors and saw a job working for Grand Metropolitan. He worked for several recruitment companies and started a fashion boutique with his wife before deciding he wanted to start his own company.\n\nCaan started his own recruitment company in the early 1980s. His first office was in Pall Mall but was so small that the door could not be fully opened as it was blocked by his desk. He purposely chose the prestigious address to add credibility to his business. \n\nCaan did not excel at school and did not attend university as an undergraduate, but graduated from the 7-week Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School in 2003.\n\nHe founded the recruitment company Alexander Mann in 1987. In 1993 Caan co-founded the executive headhunting firm Humana International with Doug Bugie, eventually growing the business to over 147 offices in 30 countries. In the same year, Caan launched the trade magazine \"Recruitment International\", which he later sold in 2000. In 1996 Caan co-founded the business process outsourcing company AMS with Rosaleen Blair. Caan subsequently sold his interests in AMS in 2002. In 1999, Caan sold Humana International to CDI International, a New York listed company. Later in that year, Caan sold a minority stake in Alexander Mann Group to private equity firm Advent International.\n\nIn 2002 Caan sold his interests in Alexander Mann, which by that time had a turnover of around £130m. In 2004 Caan established the London-based private equity firm, Hamilton Bradshaw. Hamilton Bradshaw is an investment group that specialises in Seed Capital and Growth Capital for recruitment businesses. Hamilton Bradshaw has invested in more than 30 portfolio businesses across 46 offices in the UK, and in 2014 reported more than £300 million in turnover. Recruitment Entrepreneur is the Seed Capital arm of Hamilton Bradshaw which provides the seed funding and support for ambitious, experienced recruitment professionals to start, or scale, their own recruitment ventures. In June 2013, Caan gave an interview in which he criticised parents who aid their children with finding jobs and don't let them 'stand on their own two feet', he was accused of hypocrisy when it emerged that he had employed his own daughter in one of his companies. Caan responded that his daughter's recruitment process had been \"rigorous\", and stated that the outburst around this revelation would not detract from his six-month effort to campaign for a breakdown of employment barriers. However, in an interview with The Independent Caan admitted, \"‘I would find it very difficult not to help my child’\".\n\nIn the same year, he invested in the managed office provider Avanta, which he sold three years later to the private equity company Kenmore. In 2007 Hamilton Bradshaw acquired the recruitment specialist Eden Brown and Caan sold his remaining interest in Alexander Mann Group to Graphite Private Equity in a management buy-out led by Rosaleen Blair.\n\nIn 2009 Caan launched HBRIDA, with his then business partner Helen Reynolds (ex ACEO of the REC). HBRIDA worked with SME recruitment agencies to help them achieve growth and led them to an exit. Reynolds performed a management buyout of the business in March 2012.\nIn 2010 Caan launched The Entrepreneurs Business Academy and became a non–Executive Director of McCann London. In 2011 Caan founded Hamilton Bradshaw Venture Partners. In 2012/13, Caan launched Hamilton Bradshaw Real Estate (HBRE) to invest in \"disruptive property start-ups\".\n\nJames Caan was recognised in the 2015 New Year Honours List, with a Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to entrepreneurship and charitable services through the James Caan Foundation.\n\nCaan, Chairman of Start Up Loans, which has supported thousands of people with funding and mentoring to start their own business was “delighted and privileged” to receive the accolade. This award is recognition for the 23,000 new businesses set up through the scheme as well as his philanthropic work which has helped thousands since the floods hit Pakistan in July 2010.\n\nIn 2007 Caan joined the panel of \"Dragons' Den\" judges for the fifth series of the show. Hilary Devey replaced James Caan on Dragons Den in 2012.\n\nThrough his role on Dragons’ Den, Caan worked with Children in Need for many years. In 2008, Children in Need filmed a ‘Youth Dragons Den’. ‘Look for Loneliness’ was his initiative to help reduce bullying and get children to understand what it is like to feel isolated. Caan went on to work with Children in Need in 2009, helping to renovate a Community Centre for young people to visit before and after school.\n\nIn 2008, in aid of Comic Relief, Caan teamed up with the other presenters of Dragons Den for a special edition of the programme titled ‘Victorians Dragons’ Den’. In December 2009 Caan joined the Sport Relief team on a four-day trip to Kenya.\n\nIn 2012, he was approached by CNBC to host The Business Class, a series which sees him joined by experts from a cross-section of industries, looking at the challenges and opportunities faced by UK SMEs. Each 30-minute episode featured an innovative business which was seeking guidance to help it grow in the marketplace. The popularity of the series saw it recommissioned for a second series in October 2013.\n\nIn 2014 Caan joined the UKs largest business magazine Business Matters as a columnist\n\nIn 2011, James Caan launched his mobile app 'James Caan Business Secrets'. Within weeks of launching the app rose to Number 1 in the iTunes chart and later became the fastest downloaded Business app of the year. It has regularly been ranked as a top business app by various publications, it has received over 250,000 downloads and has more than 1.5 million sessions. In 2014, Caan relaunched the latest version of his app to include three free audiobooks as well as additional chapters with tangible advice to help people start, grow or exit businesses. It focuses on key issues such as raising finance, marketing, growth and expansion.\n\nIn October 2012, James Caan was approached by LinkedIn to be one of 150 LinkedIn Influencers. By June 2014, Caan surpassed 1 million followers on LinkedIn. In late June, Caan surpassed U.S. President Barack Obama and UK Prime minister David Cameron in the number of followers, making him the 7th most followed person on LinkedIn. As a LinkedIn influencer, James blogs about career advice and provides tips for entrepreneurs and small business owners on growing their business and leadership.\n\nCaan has written several books on business and his life. The first book covered his life story and was published in 2008 called 'The Real Deal - My Story from Brick Lane to Dragons' Den'. Following publications focused on business and entrepreneurship with 'Get the Job You Really Want', 'Start Your Business in 7 Days' and most recently, 'Get the Life You Really Want'.\n\nCaan has been involved with the British Government and their agencies on a number of initiatives related to UK business for many years. These include The Government Entrepreneur’s Forum and The Department for International Development (DFID) where he worked on the relief effort after the 2010 Pakistan flood.\n\nIn May 2012, Caan was approached by the government to become Chairman of the \"Start Up Loans\" initiative. The aim is to support young people with funding and mentoring to start up new businesses in the UK. Over £112 million of loans were to be offered to 18- to 30-year-olds over a 3-year period. James and his board of entrepreneur ambassadors head up the government scheme, providing loans of around £2,500 to the 18- to 30-year-olds to start their own businesses. Originally, the goal of Start Up Loans was to help 1,000 businesses obtain government and private sector investments to fund these new ventures, however as of 2014, James Caan has helped provide funding and mentorship to more than 18,000 start ups.\n\nCaan founded the James Caan Foundation (JCF) in 2006 after he took a ‘gap year’ to visit his homeland of Pakistan. The JCF supports charities in the UK and seeks to promote greater awareness of issues facing the developing world, with a primary focus on children's access to education and healthcare.\n\nThe JCF has funded the construction of a new school at his birthplace Lahore, located in the eastern province of Punjab. Since first purchasing a barren plot of land and opening the 16-classroom school in 2005, the TCF School, named after Caan’s father, educates over 420 children aged between 5-11.\n\nIn July 2010, Caan flew to Pakistan immediately after the worst flooding in the country's history and personally purchased, prepared and delivered emergency food parcels to families in the Northern village of Nowshera.\n\nUpon his return to the UK Caan partnered with UNICEF to provide urgent food, medical supplies and water and hygiene kits to 1,000 families in the affected area. Caan also undertook an extensive media outreach campaign and his trip was widely covered in national newspapers. After just two weeks, Caan had raised £100,000 for UNICEF. Caan and the James Caan Foundation subsequently undertook a project to rebuild a village in Pakistan, including schools, hospitals, homes and all infrastructure and water supplies. Aid agencies including UNICEF, Oxfam, Islamic Relief, Muslim Hands and Mosaic were also involved in the project.\n\nCaan drew criticism when he was caught on camera offering to buy a baby from a family that was a victim of the 2010 Pakistan flood. Caan insisted the offer had been made with good intentions, but stated that he regretted the incident and described his behaviour as \"clearly wrong\". Caan was later filmed saying: \"If there's an opportunity to give a life a chance of survival, it's more an emotional response than a rational decision.\", \"What I have to remember is that I am here to build a village. That child belongs to that family\".\n\nCaan is involved with and supports other charities including The Prince's Trust, Marie Curie, Mosaic, Care Foundation and the NSPCC. In 2009 Caan was appointed chairman of The Big Issue Company.\n\nCaan was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2015 New Year Honours for services to entrepreneurship and charitable services.\n\n\n\nIn January 2013, Caan was awarded the Entrepreneur of the Year award at the British Muslim Awards.Also in 2013, he was named Chairman of the Year at the International Business Awards. In January 2014, he was a finalist for the Entrepreneur of the Year award at the British Muslim Awards. In January 2015, he was nominated for the Businessman of the Year award at the British Muslim Awards. On 29 October 2015, Caan was listed by UK-based company Richtopia at number 16 in the list of 100 Most Influential British Entrepreneurs.\n\nList of British Pakistanis\n"}
{"id": "337026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=337026", "title": "Jay Rockefeller", "text": "Jay Rockefeller\n\nJohn Davison \"Jay\" Rockefeller IV (born June 18, 1937) is an American politician who served as a United States Senator from West Virginia (1985-2015). He was first elected to the Senate in 1984, while in office as Governor of West Virginia (1977–85). Rockefeller moved to Emmons, West Virginia, to serve as a VISTA worker in 1964 and was first elected to public office as a member of the West Virginia House of Delegates (1966). Rockefeller was later elected West Virginia Secretary of State (1968) and was president of West Virginia Wesleyan College (1973–75). He became the state's senior U.S. Senator when the long-serving Sen. Robert Byrd died in June 2010.\n\nAs a great-grandson of oil tycoon John D. Rockefeller, he was the only serving politician of the prominent six-generation Rockefeller family during his tenure in the United States Senate and the only one to have held office as a Democrat in what has been a traditionally Republican dynasty, though he too was originally a Republican until he decided to run for office in what was then a strictly Democratic state. Rockefeller did not seek reelection in 2014.\n\nJohn Davison Rockefeller IV was born at New York Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to John Davison Rockefeller III (1906–1978) and Blanchette Ferry Hooker (1909–1992), 26 days after the death of his patrilineal great-grandfather, John Davison Rockefeller Sr. (1839–1937). He is the grandson of John Davison Rockefeller Jr. Jay graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1955. After his junior year at Harvard College, he spent three years studying Japanese at the International Christian University in Tokyo. He graduated from Harvard in 1961 with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Far Eastern Languages and History. He attended Yale University and did graduate work in Oriental studies and studied the Chinese language.\n\nAfter college, Rockefeller worked for the Peace Corps in Washington, D.C., under President John F. Kennedy, where he developed a friendship with Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy and worked as an assistant to Peace Corps Director Sargent Shriver. He served as the Operations Director for the Corps' largest overseas program, in the Philippines. He worked for a brief time in the United States Department of Far Eastern Affairs. He continued his public service in 1964–1965 in the Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), under President Lyndon B. Johnson, during which time he moved to Emmons, West Virginia.\n\nRockefeller, along with his son Charles, is a Trustee of New York's Asia Society, which was established by his father in 1956. He is also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a nonprofit think tank previously chaired by his uncle, David Rockefeller. As a Senator, he voted against the 1993 North American Free Trade Agreement, which was heavily backed by David Rockefeller.\n\nRockefeller was elected to the West Virginia House of Delegates in 1966, and to the office of West Virginia Secretary of State in 1968. He won the Democratic nomination for governor in 1972, but was defeated in the general election by the Republican incumbent Governor Arch A. Moore, Jr.. Rockefeller then served as president of West Virginia Wesleyan College from 1973 to 1975.\n\nRockefeller was elected Governor of West Virginia in 1976 and re-elected in 1980. He served as governor when manufacturing plants and coal mines were closing as the national recession of the early 1980s hit West Virginia particularly hard. Between 1982 and 1984, West Virginia's unemployment rate hovered between 15 and 20 percent.\n\nIn 1984, he was elected to the United States Senate, narrowly defeating businessman John Raese as Ronald Reagan easily carried the state in the presidential election. As in his 1980 gubernatorial campaign against Arch Moore, Rockefeller spent over $12 million to win a Senate seat. Rockefeller was re-elected in 1990, 1996, 2002 and 2008 by substantial margins. He was chair of the Committee on Veterans' Affairs (1993–1995; January 3 to 20, 2001; and June 6, 2001 – January 3, 2003). Rockefeller was the chair of the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation (2009–2015).\n\nIn April 1992, he was the Democratic Party's finance chairman and considered running for the presidency, but pulled out after consulting with friends and advisers. He went on to strongly endorse Clinton as the Democratic candidate.\n\nHe was the Chairman of the prominent Senate Intelligence Committee (retiring in January 2009), from which he commented frequently on the war in Iraq.\n\nIn 1993, Rockefeller became the principal Senate supporter, with Ted Kennedy, behind Bill and Hillary Clinton's sweeping health care reform package, liaising closely with the First Lady, opening up his mansion next to Rock Creek Park for its first strategy meeting. The reform was subsequently defeated by an alliance between the Business Roundtable and a small-business coalition.\n\nIn 2002, Rockefeller made an official visit to several Middle Eastern countries, during which he discussed his personal views regarding United States military intentions with the leaders of those countries. In October of that year, Rockefeller strongly expressed his concern for Saddam Hussein's alleged weapons of mass destruction program while addressing the U.S. Senate:\n\nIn November 2005 during a TV interview, Rockefeller stated,\n\nI took a trip ... in January 2002 to Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Syria, and I told each of the heads of state that it was my view that George Bush had already made up his mind to go to war against Iraq, that that was a predetermined set course that had taken shape shortly after 9/11.\n\nRockefeller noted that the comment expresses his personal opinion, and that he was not privy to any confidential information that such action was planned. On October 11, 2002, he was one of 77 Senators who voted for the Iraq Resolution authorizing the Iraq invasion.\n\nIn February 2010, regarding President Obama, Rockefeller said,\n\nHe says 'I'm for clean coal,' and then he says it in his speeches, but he doesn't say it in here ... And he doesn't say it in the minds of my own people. And he's beginning to not be believable to me.\n\nRockefeller faced criticism from West Virginia coal companies, which claimed that he was out of touch.\n\nRockefeller became the senior U.S. Senator from West Virginia when Robert Byrd died in June 2010, after serving in the senate with Rockefeller for 25 years.\n\nIn July 2011 Rockefeller was prominent in calling for U.S. agencies to investigate whether alleged phone hacking at News Corporation's newspapers in the United Kingdom had targeted American victims of the September 11 terrorist attacks. Rockefeller and Barbara Boxer subsequently wrote to the oversight committee of Dow Jones & Company (a subsidiary of News Corporation) to request that it conduct an investigation into the hiring of former CEO Les Hinton, and whether any current or former executives had knowledge of or played a role in phone hacking.\n\nHe announced on January 11, 2013, that he would not run for a sixth term. On March 25, 2013, Rockefeller announced his support for gay marriage.\n\nIn November 2014, Rockefeller donated his senatorial archives to the West Virginia University Libraries and the West Virginia & Regional History Center. The archival collection documents his 30-year career in the United States Senate.\n\nRockefeller served on the following committees in the 112th Congress:\n\n\nRockefeller initially supported the use of force based upon the evidence presented by the intelligence community that linked Iraq to nuclear ambitions. After the Niger uranium forgeries, in which the Bush administration gave forged documents to U.N. weapons inspectors to support allegations against Iraq, Rockefeller started an investigation into the falsification and exaggeration of evidence for the war. Through the investigations, he became an outspoken critic of Bush and the Iraq war. As chair of the Intelligence committee, he presided over a critical report on the Administration's handling of intelligence and war operations.\n\nRockefeller and the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence released the final two pieces of the Phase II report on Iraq war intelligence on June 5, 2008. Senator Rockefeller said, \"The president and his advisers undertook a relentless public campaign in the aftermath of the attacks to use the war against Al Qaeda as a justification for overthrowing Saddam Hussein.\"\n\nIn July 2007, Rockefeller announced that he planned to introduce legislation before the August Congressional recess that would give the FCC the power to regulate TV violence. According to the edition of July 16, 2007 of Broadcasting & Cable, the new law would apply to both broadcast as well as cable and satellite programming. This would mark the first time that the FCC would be given power to regulate such a vast spectrum of content, which would include almost everything except material produced strictly for direct internet use. An aide to the senator said that his staff had also been carefully formulating the bill in such a way that it would be able to pass constitutional scrutiny by the courts.\n\nIn 2007, Rockefeller began steering the Senate Intelligence Committee to grant retroactive immunity to telecommunications companies who were accused of unlawfully assisting the National Security Agency (NSA) in monitoring the communications of American citizens (see Hepting v. AT&T).\n\nThis was an about-face of sorts for Senator Rockefeller, who had hand-written a letter to Vice President Cheney in 2003 expressing his concerns about the legality of NSA's warrantless wire-tapping program. Some have attributed this change of heart to the spike in contributions from telecommunications companies to the senator just as these companies began lobbying Congress to protect them from lawsuits regarding their cooperation with the NSA.\n\nBetween 2001 and the start of this lobbying effort, AT&T employees had contributed only $300 to the senator. After the lobbying effort began, AT&T employees and executives donated $19,350 in three months. The senator has pledged not to rely on his vast fortune to fund his campaigns, and the AT&T contributions represent about 2% of the money he raised during the previous year.\n\nAlthough publicly deploring torture, Rockefeller was one of two Congressional Democrats briefed on waterboarding and other secret CIA practices in the early years of the Bush Administration, as well as the existence of taped evidence of such interrogations (later destroyed). In December 2007, Rockefeller opposed a special counsel or commission inquiry into the destruction of the tapes, stating \"it is the job of the intelligence committees to do that.\"\n\nOn September 28, 2006, Rockefeller voted with a largely Republican majority to suspend habeas corpus provisions for anyone deemed by the Executive Branch an \"unlawful combatant,\" barring them from challenging their detentions in court. Rockefeller's vote gave a retroactive, nine-year immunity to U.S. officials who authorized, ordered, or committed acts of torture and abuse, permitting the use of statements obtained through torture to be used in military tribunals so long as the abuse took place by December 30, 2005.\nRockefeller's vote authorized the President to establish permissible interrogation techniques and to \"interpret the meaning and application\" of international Geneva Convention standards, so long as the coercion fell short of \"serious\" bodily or psychological injury. The bill became law on October 17, 2006.\n\nOn February 29, 2008, he endorsed Barack Obama for President of the United States, citing Obama's judgment on the Iraq war and national security issues, and calling him the right candidate to lead America during a time of instability at home and abroad. This endorsement stood in stark contrast to the results of the state primary that was easily won by Hillary Clinton.\n\nOn April 7, 2008 in an interview for The Charleston Gazette, Rockefeller criticized John McCain's Vietnam experience:\n\nMcCain was a fighter pilot, who dropped laser-guided missiles from 35,000 feet. He was long gone when they hit. What happened when they get to the ground? He doesn't know. You have to care about the lives of people. McCain never gets into those issues.\n\nThe McCain campaign called for an apology from Senator Rockefeller and for Barack Obama, whom Rockefeller endorsed, to denounce the comment. Rockefeller later apologized for the comment and the Obama campaign issued a statement expressing Obama's disagreement with the comment. Senator Lindsey Graham (R) of South Carolina noted that \"John didn't drop bombs from 35,000 feet. ... the bombs were not laser guided (in the 1960 and 1970s)\".\n\nOn April 1, 2009, Rockefeller introduced the Cybersecurity Act of 2009 - S.773 (full text) before Congress. Citing the vulnerability of the Internet to cyber-attacks, the bill makes provisions to turn the Department of Commerce into a public-private clearing house to share potential threat information with the owners of large private networks. It authorizes the Secretary of Commerce to sequester any information deemed necessary, without regard to any law.\n\nIt also authorizes the president to declare an undefined \"cyber-emergency\" which allows him to shut down any and all traffic to what he considers to be a compromised server.\n\nOn June 1, 2011, Rockefeller sponsored the fourth West Virginia Homeland Security Summit and Expo. The event ran two days and focused on homeland security with Rockefeller emphasizing cybersecurity.\n\nIn 1997, Rockefeller co-authored the Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) – a program aimed at giving low-income children health insurance coverage. Annually, CHIP has been successfully covering about 6 million children, who otherwise would have been uninsured. On September 30, 2007, the program expired, requiring Congress to reauthorize the legislation. On August 2, 2007, the vote for reauthorization passed legislation by a strong, bipartisan vote (68-31).\n\nRecognizing the importance of long-term care for the nation's veterans, Rockefeller authored successful legislation that required the Department of Veterans Affairs, for the first time, to provide a wide range of extended care services—such as home health care, adult day care, respite care, and hospice care—to veterans who use the VA health care system.\n\nRockefeller is also a strong supporter of the fight against Alzheimer's and neurological disease. The Blanchette Rockefeller Neurosciences Institute (BRNI) was founded in Morgantown in 1999 by Rockefeller and his family to help advance medical and scientific understanding of Alzheimer's and other diseases of the brain. BRNI is the world's only non-profit institute dedicated exclusively to the study of both human memory and diseases of memory. Its primary mission is to accelerate neurological discoveries from the lab, including diagnostic tools and treatments, to the clinic to benefit patients who suffer from neurological and psychiatric diseases. A $30 million state-of-the-art BRNI research facility was opened at West Virginia University in Fall 2008. The approximately three-level building will house 100 scientists by 2012.\n\nOn Healthcare Reform, Rockefeller has been a proponent of a public option, fighting with some Democrats on the finance committee, in particular Max Baucus, the chairman of the committee, who contended that there was not enough support for a public option to gather the 60 votes needed to prevent a filibuster. Baucus asked repeatedly for Rockefeller to stop speaking on the issue.\n\nOn September 29, 2009 Rockefeller offered an amendment to the Baucus Health Bill in the Senate Finance Committee to add a public option. The amendment was rejected 15 to 8, with five Democrats (Baucus, Kent Conrad, Blanche Lincoln, Tom Carper, Bill Nelson) and all Republicans voting no.\n\nRockefeller supported President Barack Obama's health reform legislation; he voted for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act in December 2009, and he voted for the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010.\n\nSince 1967, Rockefeller has been married to the former Sharon Lee Percy, the Chief Executive Officer of WETA-TV, the leading PBS station in the Washington, D.C., area, which broadcasts such programs as \"PBS NewsHour\" and \"Washington Week\". She is a twin daughter of Senator Charles Harting Percy (1919—2011) and Jeanne Valerie Dickerson.\n\nJay and Sharon have four children:\n\nJamie's wife, Emily, is the daughter of former National Football League (NFL) Commissioner Paul Tagliabue; John Davison Rockefeller VI was born to them on August 29, 2007. Before John VI's birth, they had two daughters, Laura Chandler Rockefeller (born c. 2000) and Sophia Percy Rockefeller (born c. 2002).\n\nThe Rockefellers reside in Northwest Washington, D.C., and maintain permanent residence in Charleston, West Virginia. They have a ranch in the Grand Teton National Park in Jackson Hole, Wyoming. President Bill Clinton, a friend of Rockefeller's, and the Clinton family vacationed at the ranch in August 1995.\n\nRockefeller is related to several Republican Party supporters and former officeholders: his paternal grandmother Abigail Greene \"Abby\" Aldrich (1874—1948) was a daughter of Rhode Island Senator Nelson Wilmarth Aldrich (1841—1915). John Davison Rockefeller Jr. (1874—1960) and Abby's youngest son was banker David Rockefeller (1915—2017). David's brother Winthrop Aldrich Rockefeller (1912—1973) served as Governor of Arkansas (1967–71). Winthrop and David's brother Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller (1908—1979) served as Governor of New York (1959–73) and as Vice President of the United States (1974—77) under Gerald Ford. Jay is also a first cousin of Arkansas Lt. Governor Winthrop Paul Rockefeller (1948—2006).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2436305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2436305", "title": "Khalid bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud", "text": "Khalid bin Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud\n\nKhalid bin Abdullah () (born 1950, Riyadh) is the eldest child of King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia. He is a member of the Allegiance Council.\n\nKhaled bin Abdullah was born in Riyadh in 1950. His mother is Munira bint Abdullah Al Shaykh, who died on 17 September 2012.\n\nPrince Khalid was schooled with his younger brother Prince Mutaib at Taif-Barmana School in Lebanon and secondary school in Jeddah. He obtained a bachelor of arts degree in public administration from College of Commerce and Economics at King Abdul-Aziz University. He later graduated from Royal Military Academy Sandhurst.\n\nAfter completing his education at Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, Prince Khaled first served as Director of Administration and Planning at the National Guard from 1974 to 1976. Following the Grand Mosque Seizure in 1979, he was appointed deputy commander of the Saudi Arabian National Guard West. Later he commanded the National Guard in the Eastern Province. He remained in this post until 1992. In fact, he was dismissed from the National Guard in 1992 following policy disagreements with his father's advisors.\n\nKhaled bin Abdullah is the honorary President of the Jeddah football club Al-Ahli. He is a member of Saudi Arabia Football Federation. He is one of the members of the KAUST Board of Trustees.\n\nIn 2010, Khaled bin Abdullah announced the establishment of the King Abdullah International Foundation for Charity and Humanitarian Deeds. He, the new deputy president of the Foundation, said its goals include the provision of relief services and aid.\n\nPrince Khalid is also a member of the board of the King Abdulaziz and His Companions Foundation for Giftedness and Creativity of which chairman is King Abdullah.\n\nKhalid bin Abdullah owns Saudi Arabian Insurance Company with his sons. He and his family also own Technical Support and Operational Services, a limited liability company, founded in 1998.\n\nKhalid bin Abdullah is married to Noura bint Abdallah bin Muhammad Al Saud Al Kabir (born 1958). She is the daughter of his aunt, Seeta bint Abdulaziz. They have five children; Duna (born 1981), Faisal (born 1983), Abdulaziz (born 1986), Latifa (born 1992) and Abeer (born 1997).\n\nKhalid bin Abdullah is considered to be one of the most respected royals. He is not as visible as his brothers.\n\nOn 11 June 2011, the Associated Press (AP) erroneously reported Prince Khalid as having died, confusing him with King Abdullah's grand-nephew Khalid bin Abdullah bin Saud bin Abdulaziz. On 12 June 2011, AP sent a retraction correcting the earlier false report of Khalid's demise.\n"}
{"id": "1987826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1987826", "title": "Kunihiko Iwadare", "text": "Kunihiko Iwadare\n\nIwadare returned to Japan, hoping to participate in building the electrical industry in Japan. He first joined Osaka Dento (Osaka Electric Lamp Company) as an electrical engineer, and after eight years resigned from his post to start his own business as a general sales agent in Japan for General Electric and Western Electric companies. \n\nIn 1895 Western Electric wished to expand their telephone equipment sales business in Japan and proposed a limited partnership with Iwadare. Their representative was Walter Tenney Carleton. Iwadare accepted the proposal and a new firm was created in August, 1898. In 1899, changes to treaties between Japan and Western countries went into effect. The limited partnership created in 1898 was restructured into the joint stock company, Nippon Electric Co. Ltd. Western Electric held 54% of the stock. Iwadare was named Managing Director of what is now known as NEC Corporation. He became Chairman of the Board in 1926.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37294196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37294196", "title": "Miguel Facussé Barjum", "text": "Miguel Facussé Barjum\n\nMiguel Facussé Barjum (August 14, 1924 – June 23, 2015) was a Honduran businessman and landowner. He was Executive President of Corporación Dinant, a consumer products manufacturing company he founded in Honduras in 1960. Dinant sells its products throughout Central America and the Dominican Republic, and also exports to global markets. A 2006 study by the Friedrich Ebert Foundation named Facussé one of the three \"most powerful men in Honduras\". Facussé was the chief economic advisor to President Roberto Suazo Córdova during his term in office from 1982 to 1986 and vice-president of APROH, a \"right-wing grouping of business interests and members of the armed forces\" from the early 1980s to at least 2001. Facussé was married and had nine children. His nephew, Carlos Roberto Flores, was President of Honduras from 1998 to 2002. His son-in-law, Fredy Nasser, is a prominent Honduran businessman. In May 2009, Facussé was awarded the \"Orden Mérito a la Democracia en el Grado de Gran Caballero\" by the Senate of Colombia. In August 2014, he was awarded the CEAL Founders' Award for his pioneering role in promoting business between Latin American nations.\n\nMiguel Facussé was born in Tegucigalpa, Honduras in 1924, the seventh of nine children of Nicholás and María Barjum de Facussé and his family is of Palestinian descent.\n\nFacussé earned a degree in aeronautical engineering in 1944 at the University of Notre Dame. Facussé hosted Notre Dame University President Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, CSC during a visit to Honduras in 1960 and Rev. Edward \"Monk\" Malloy, CSC in 2003.\n\nIn 1944, Facussé moved to Costa Rica, where he converted warplanes into commercial cargo airliners. He quickly became general manager of a multinational corporation that reconstructed and maintained wartime aircraft from all over the world.\n\nAfter returning to Tegucigalpa, Facussé worked in his brother's textile company. Facussé set up \"Químicas Dinant de Centroamérica SA\" in July 1960. In the late 1960s, Facussé won contracts with Procter & Gamble to produce and distribute its products in Honduras, El Salvador, and Guatemala.\n\nIn 1969, Facussé was president of both the Honduras Industrial Association and the Central American Industrial Association. At the time, Facussé owned Químicas Dinant, a company that made soaps and detergents.\n\nIn the 1970s, Facussé created a small factory making detergents and soaps for Químicas Dinant. He did so with support from the private international banking sector and credit from the Corporación Nacional de Inversiones (CONADI), created by the state in 1974 as part of the strategy to consolidate the new Industrial Model for Substituting Imports (ISI).\n\nIn the early 1980s, Facussé was the chief economic advisor to President Roberto Suazo Córdova (in office 1982 to 1986). During this time Facussé helped his nephew, Carlos Roberto Flores, (who later went on to become president of Honduras) become a political advisor to Suazo.\n\nIn the 1980s, Facussé was also vice-president of the \"Asociación para el Progreso de Honduras\" (APROH), an organization officially founded in January 1983 linking business leaders and military personnel (head of the armed forces Gustavo Álvarez Martínez was elected its first president). A \"widely publicised memorandum\" by Facussé \"argued that the only way out of the national crisis was to 'sell Honduras to the foreign investor'\". Facussé was still listed as Vice-President of APROH in 2001.\n\nFacussé was president of the Cressida Corporation, which in the 1990s received a $55m investment loan from the World Bank. In 2000 Facussé sold Cressida, which had subsidiaries throughout Central America and was at the time described as \"the biggest food and cleaning products manufacturer in Honduras\" to Unilever for $322m for an estimated net profit to Facussé of $120m. Facussé had previously sold the brand \"Magia Blanca\" and others to Procter & Gamble for over $25m.\n\nIn 2011, Facussé remained the owner of Corporación Dinant, which owned over 22,000 acres of palm plantations in Bajo Aguán. Facussé was described in 2012 by Reporters without Borders as having, \"a private militia that can count on support from the police and army to impose his will\". Reporters without Borders previously had called upon Facussé to respond publicly after the president of La Voz de Zacate Grande, a radio station involved in a land struggle against Facussé, was shot in 2011. Accusations that Facussé's militia had killed agricultural workers who had occupied his land led to the withdrawal in 2011 of a $20m investment loan from the German, and to Électricité de France cancelling the purchase of carbon credits from Dinant.\n\nHowever the United Nations continued to back two Dinant palm-oil-waste-to-biogas projects through its Clean Development Mechanism. Corporación Dinant denied committing human rights violations or forcibly evicting intruders from its land. It claimed that \"externally funded armed groups, with no interest in farming, are using the conflicts in Honduras for wider political ends by encouraging the illegal seizure of private lands.\"\n\nMedia reports and leaked US Embassy cables published by WikiLeaks suggest that an airstrip on Facussé's property has been used for to transit cocaine. Facussé denied ever having been involved in any activities related to drug trafficking, claiming instead to help drug enforcement authorities by reporting illegal activities on Dinant’s property.\n\nIn 2014, an internal World Bank investigation said that the International Finance Corporation violated its own social and environmental rules in approving a $30m loan to Facussé. However, in its 2015 report on Honduras, the International Criminal Court stated that \"criminal organisations and international drug cartels are deeply involved in local businesses and criminal activities in the region and seem to be involved in most of the alleged crimes in the Bajo Aguán, including unlawful occupations of land and robbery of African palm fruits, in order to retain control of the region and to continue to operate in total impunity.\"\n"}
{"id": "56039505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56039505", "title": "Nana Kofi Obiri Egyir II", "text": "Nana Kofi Obiri Egyir II\n\nNana Kofi Obiri Egyir II is a Ghanaian businessman and traditional ruler. He is the Sanaahene of the Oguaa traditional area. He owns the hospitality facility Sanaa Lodge in the Central Region of Ghana. He was appointed to the Council of State by President Nana Addo Dankwa Akuffo-Addo in February 2017. He was once the national treasurer of the Popular Front Party. \n\nNana Kofi Obiri Egyir II spent much of his working life as a businessman with interests mainly in the Ghanaian hospitality industry. His business ventures are mostly in the Central Region of Ghana and includes the Sanaa Lodge, a three star hospitality facility close to the Elmina Castle.\n\nIn the 1970s Nana Kofi Obiri Egyir II was elected the national financial secretary of the Popular Front Party. He was installed as the Sanaahene - leader of warriors of the traditional area. As Sanaahene, he aids the Omanhene of the Oguaa traditional area, Osabarimba Kwesi Atta II, in the performance of his duties as well as presiding over the activities of the Asafo groups in the area.\n\nIn February 2017 Nana Kofi Obiri Egyir II was appointed to the council by President Nana Akuffo-Addo. During the swearing-in ceremony held at The Flagstaff House, President Akuffo-Addo entreated the council to advise him well with the view to always propel Ghana to greater heights. During the handing over ceremony of the sixth session of the council to the seventh, the outgoing council chair, Naa Prof. John S. Nabila, advised the new house to give their best counsel to the new government to ensure that the country and all its citizens would live in prosperity and peace. The appointment of Nana Kofi Obiri Egyir II was gladly received by the people of the Central Region who also pledged their support for him. Some believed that his vast experience in the business world as well as in Ghanaian traditional rule would help the council greatly.\n"}
{"id": "39010653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39010653", "title": "Offshore Leaks", "text": "Offshore Leaks\n\nOffshore Leaks is the name of a report disclosing details of 130,000 offshore accounts in April 2013. Some observers have called it the biggest hit against international tax fraud of all times (to date), although it has been pointed out that normal businesses may use the offshore legislation to ease formalities in international trade. The report originated from the Washington D.C.-based investigative journalism nonprofit, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), who collaborated with reporters around the world to produce the series of investigative reports published in connection with ICIJ's \"The Global Muckraker\". The investigation is based on a cache of 2.5 million secret records about the offshore assets of people from 170 countries and territories, obtained by ICIJ's director, Gerard Ryle. The ICIJ Offshore Leaks Database is headed with the cautionary paragraph: \"There are legitimate uses for offshore companies and trusts. We do not intend to suggest or imply that any persons, companies or other entities included in the ICIJ Offshore Leaks Database have broken the law or otherwise acted improperly.\"\n\nMore than 100 journalists from more than 60 countries and dozens of news organizations have taken part in the investigation, which has since expanded to include revelations about the offshore holdings of China's business and political elites.\nImee Marcos, daughter of the former Philippine president Ferdinand Edralin Marcos, is on the list. Philippine authorities are investigating if the money is part of the 5 billion dollars with which Marcos fled from the country in the 1980s. Also on the list are the family of Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, former Prime Minister of Georgia Bidzina Ivanishvili, Olga Shuvalov (the wife of former Russian First Vice Premier Igor Shuvalov), Deputy Director of the Board of Gazprom Valeriy Golubev, and Ukrainian oligarchs Rinat Akhmetov and Dmytro Firtash.\n\nKazi Zafarullah, a relative of Bangladesh's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, and his wife are shareholders of two offshore companies in the British Virgin Islands.\n\nA German politician, Peer Steinbrück, has called for harsh penalties for the banks involved in the scandal, up to the revoking of banking licenses. ICIJ reports that the series of stories has sparked \"official investigations, sweeping policy changes and high-profile resignations\" around the world, with the European Union’s top tax official calling Offshore Leaks “the most significant trigger” behind Europe’s new push to crack down on offshore hideaways and global tax dodging. “We're in a completely different context today” because of the Offshore Leaks revelations, Belgium’s secretary of state has said. “It’s a new world.”\n\nIBC consultant Ryan Mohanlal responded that each enterprise, holding, corporation or entity which is registered has its own reasons for doing so and that there are legitimate reasons to incorporate in this form.\n\nIn Brazil, ICIJ's criteria for selecting journalists has been criticized for lack of transparency. The journalists chosen by ICIJ are part of media conglomerates that could potentially have connections with offshore account owners. Claims that UOL (a joint venture between Grupo Abril and Folha de S. Paulo) and O Globo (from military dictatorship backers Grupo Globo) journalists might pick and disclose names according to political bias rather than public interest eventually led investigative reporter Amaury Ribeiro Jr. to leave the ICIJ.\n\nAs of 15 June 2013 a searchable database which includes part of the data is available under the URL http://offshoreleaks.icij.org/. So far the full primary data set has not been made publicly available. \n\nThere is no known connection between the ICIJ \"Offshore Leaks\" and \"WikiLeaks\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30044804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30044804", "title": "PhD-MBA", "text": "PhD-MBA\n\nA PhD-MBA or MBA-PhD is a dual degree program offered in some cases by schools of science, engineering or social science, jointly with business schools. The program generally lasts four to eight years and results in the candidate earning both a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree and a Master of Business Administration (MBA) degree. Students may apply to the joint program before matriculating to either program, or after matriculating to the PhD programme. The programme often attracts entrepreneurs and venture capitalists.\n\nSome of the leading PhD-MBA programs are offered by universities like:\n\nThese programs are aimed at creating entrepreneurs and future technology leaders.\n\nMcCook, Alison (2004) \"Science, with a side of business\". The Scientist. \n\n"}
{"id": "38322873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38322873", "title": "Plants for Human Health Institute", "text": "Plants for Human Health Institute\n\nThe Plants for Human Health Institute (PHHI) is a North Carolina State University research and education organization located at the North Carolina Research Campus in Kannapolis, North Carolina, United States. The institute researches food crops, like fruits and vegetables, and the potential health-promoting properties they may convey when consumed.\n\nPHHI is part of the North Carolina State University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, which staffs the institute with faculty from the departments of horticultural science; food, bioprocessing and nutrition sciences; plant and microbial biology; genetics; and agricultural and resource economics. The institute has both research and Cooperative Extension components. Mary Ann Lila, a blueberry researcher, is director of the Plants for Human Health Institute.\n\nN.C. State began operations in Kannapolis in 2007 as the Fruit and Vegetable Science Institute. The university was one of the first organizations to join the biotech hub.\n\nThe program's name was changed to Plants for Human Health Institute when the N.C. Research Campus was dedicated on October 20, 2008, in order \"to more accurately reflect the groundbreaking research approach the institute will take. Institute research will focus on identifying and making available to consumers bioactive compounds in plants that prevent and treat disease.\"\n\nAs of May 2014, PHHI has about 50 faculty and staff in Kannapolis, not including seasonal staff.\n\nPlants for Human Health Institute researchers study the potential health-promoting properties of fruits and vegetables. The institute employs six lead researchers and has plans to expand to 14 researchers.\n\nThe institutes mission is to discover and deliver plant-based solutions to improve human health, PHHI researchers target naturally occurring chemical compounds in plants and fresh produce, known as phytochemicals, some of which convey health-promoting properties when ingested. Institute director, Lila, and other PHHI researchers have done research into phytochemicals, such as anthocyanins present in blueberries and other crops, indicating they provide health benefits against cancer, diabetes and other chronic human diseases when consumed.\n\nIn 2013, Lila was a lead researcher in a study involving athletes ingesting blueberry and green tea-infused drinks twice daily during a two-week supplementation period and then for three days of rigorous exercise. Among the results, participants experienced a prolonged spike in their metabolism (up to 14 hours) after exercise.\n\nPlants for Human Health Institute researchers integrate expertise in biochemistry, plant breeding, epigenetics, metabolomics, pharmacogenomics, postharvest physiology and systems biology. PHHI research faculty have: \n\nThe institute operates three greenhouses. At a cost of $340,000 the greenhouse complex provides about 10,000 square feet of space for plant trials on crops like broccoli and strawberry, and allow the institute to rent space or collaborate on research with other campus operations and businesses.\n\nResearchers also partner with the Piedmont Research Station, a research farm located near Salisbury, N.C., to grow and test field crops.\n\nFunded by a $1 million U.S. Department of Agriculture – Agriculture & Food Research Initiative (USDA-AFRI) the Kannapolis Scholars is a program for graduate students from multiple disciplines to participate in integrated research. Led by Jack Odle, William Neal Reynolds, Professor of Nutritional Biochemistry at N.C. State, the examines issuesin the broad domain of functional foods, bioactive food components and human health. 30 faculty members from eight universities in North Carolina act from multiple disciplines, including food science, nutritional science, plant science, animal science, microbiology, biochemistry and metabolomics as mentors to the Kannapolis Scholars. Some are resident at the N.C. Research Campus while others are at the associated university campuses.\n\nThe Plant Pathways Elucidation Project, or P2EP, is a $1.9 million program that engaging college students from across North Carolina in education and research. Started in June 2013, the program is supported by a consortium of academic and industry organizations, including the Plants for Human Health Institute. The program teams university scientists, industry leaders and college students to explore plant health benefits, prepare student scientists to pursue careers in STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math), and create a research knowledge base.\n\nThe 2014 P2EP summer session includes doctoral candidates and graduate and undergraduate interns from 12 colleges and universities and two high schools in Cabarrus County.\n\nThe N.C. Cooperative Extension Service houses a multidisciplinary team at the N.C. Research Campus as part of the Plants for Human Health Institute. The team is an education and outreach component directed toward farm and agribusiness management, communications and marketing, and fresh produce safety.\n\nIn addition to and in partnership with PHHI research programs, the Cooperative Extension group coordinates educational and outreach efforts, secures grants and delivers practical applications of science-based research to strengthen the agriculture industry in North Carolina.\n\nThe N.C. Value-Added Cost Share Program (NCVACS), coordinated by the Cooperative Extension team at PHHI, provides assistance to agricultural operations in the form of cost share awards. The program has awarded more than $1 million to support agribusinesses in North Carolina since it began in 2009. The N.C. Tobacco Trust Fund Commission funds the program.\n\nThe N.C. Cooperative Extension component of PHHI is a cooperative development center for the state, supported by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Development program, the group works with producer groups and cooperatives to expand economic activity.\n\nPHHI is home to the N.C. Fresh Produce Safety program, a program of the Cooperative Extension, established to educate fruit and vegetable growers about minimizing food safety risks. The program's training curriculum addresses Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs).\n\nBlake Brown, Hugh C. Kiger Professor in agricultural economics at N.C. State, started the Program for Value-Added and Alternative Agriculture in 2006 with support from the N.C. Tobacco Trust Fund Commission. The program was originally created to assist the transition of tobacco-farm families to other profitable enterprises after the Tobacco Buyout in 2005.\n\nAs part of N.C. State's development of the N.C. Research Campus, the program relocated to Kannapolis in 2008 as an on-site Cooperative Extension complement to the research personnel and programs with the institute. The program operated under the N.C. MarketReady brand from October 2009 until July 2012. The program has since dropped the name and been fully integrated into the institute as the N.C. Cooperative Extension component.\n\nThe N.C. Research Campus is a public-private venture including eight universities, one community college, the David H. Murdock Research Institute (DHMRI), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) and corporate entities that collaborate to advance the fields of human health, nutrition and agriculture. It was founded by David H. Murdock, CEO of Dole Foods. The campus is built upon the former site of the Cannon Textile Mill in Kannapolis, about 30 miles north of Charlotte.\n\nThe research campus represents an effort by the state of North Carolina to revitalize the region following the decline of the textile industry. The campus is supported mainly through annual funding from the state of North Carolina, federal research grants to university researchers located on the campus, and investment of real estate by Murdock, former owner of the Cannon textile mill that previously occupied the site.\n\nIt was announced in November 2013 that two new facilities were breaking ground at the Kannapolis campus, including a 50,000-square-foot data center (DataChambers) and a 100,000-square-foot municipal center (the new Kannapolis City Hall).\n\nThe Plants for Human Health Institute is housed on the campus in a 105,000-square-foot facility that includes research labs, lab support areas and an Advance II 700 US-2 Magnet nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscope.\n\nThe institute has received $2.1 million in gift donations and $7.8 million in federal and private competitive grants, $1.42 million from the N.C. Tobacco Trust Fund Commission, $2 million from the N.C. Department of Agriculture and Consumer Services and the U.S. Department of Agriculture, $780,000 from the University of North Carolina General Administration, and $1.05 million from commodity groups and other private sponsors. This funding is in addition to state appropriations. PHHI research programs have also received significant grant funding support from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the National Institutes of Health.\n\n"}
{"id": "30324643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30324643", "title": "Retman", "text": "Retman\n\nRETMAN is a comics’ character, associated to Rational Emotive Behavior Therapy (REBT). Through it, REBT tries more efficiently address children, adolescents and the general public. This form of therapy approaches the treatment of emotional disorders and the promotion of mental health by modifying maladaptive/irrational behaviors and cognitions (thoughts).\n\nThe first RETMAN concept was thought up at the Albert Ellis Institute, US, in the 80s (Calvin Merrifield and Rebecca Merriefield: Call Me Retman and Have a Ball, 1979) inspired by the name Rational Emotive Therapy (that is how this form of cognitive-behavioral psychotherapy was referred to then). The prototype for the superhero was Albert Ellis himself. As “RET-Man”, Ellis is arrested by the police but not before helping a depressed jilted lover give up his thoughts of suicide in favor of more rational thinking. \nHowever, because of the high production costs at the time, the project was abandoned after the publication of a comic.\n\nThe concept was resumed in 2008, with the approval of the Albert Ellis Institute by a team of Romanian psychologists and graphic designers led by Prof. Daniel David, with a modern technology. For the first time they also investigated the efficiency of the concept in promoting psychological health and in the treatment of psychological disorders in children and adolescents (see \"Meet RETMAN\" ). The team developed the RETMAN concept in an innovative way, creating an entire system that includes: (1) therapeutic comics; (2) therapeutic stories; (3) therapeutic cartoons; and (4) the therapeutic system RoboRETMAN.\n\nThe Retman technology is being used by (selection) The Child and Adolescent Psychiatric Clinic, UMF, Cluj-Napoca, the “PsyTech” University Psychological Clinic at Babes-Bolyai, Cluj-Napoca, kindergartens and private clinical psychology/counseling/psychotherapy practices in Romania.\nIt is also used on the REThink Project, a research grant with the goal to design, develop, and evaluate a therapeutic video game accessible over the Internet, meant to be used primarily as a standalone application to promote emotional resilience in children and adolescents.\n\nThe concept was resumed by a team of designers and psychologists at the International Institute for the Advanced Studies of Psychotherapy and Applied Mental Health (link), led by “Aaron T.Beck” professor Daniel David. The institute was co-founded by the Albert Ellis Institute and Babes-Bolyai University. The concept put forward by this team was a completely changed one, using the character Superman as a model for Retman. A planet was created for Retman (Rationalia), as well as new adventures and a dangerous opponent (the evil sorcerer Irationalius)\nThe stories of Retman are based on an original story, developed by dr. Daniel David: “...Retman was the ruler of Planet Rationalia from the System of Ataraxia in the Happiness Galaxy. He lived in a town called Equilibrium and was a Great Sorcerer Psychotherapist, who is a person who helps you when you suffer and teaches you how to be happy. The Great Sorcerer Psychotherapist practiced “Retmagic” (a rational-emotional therapeutic magic). This gift had been given to him by the Almighty Creator of the World. All the inhabitants of the planet were happy because they had everything they wanted, but mostly because they wanted only what they knew they deserved. The secret of their happiness was therefore their minds and their way of thinking. But while Retman fostered rational thinking on the planet, his enemy, the Sorcerer Irationalius became envious of his power and stole the minds of the inhabitants of the planet. They became mean and envious and the whole planet was overtaken by evil and despair. Then the Almighty Creator of the World, in anger, destroyed everyone, sparing just Retman, as he was the only person whose mind Irationalius could not steal. He was sent on Earth with the goal of teaching everyone here to be rational and happy, so they wouldn’t end up like the inhabitants of Rationalia...”\nThe stories of Retman have been published in Romanian and English.\n"}
{"id": "19783391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19783391", "title": "Ritchie Petty", "text": "Ritchie Petty\n\nRitchie Petty is an American stock car racing driver. Son of Maurice Petty and nephew of Richard Petty, he competed in three NASCAR Winston Cup Series races in 1993 and one race in 1994 in the #53 Ford owned by his father. His best career Cup finish was a 25th at Talladega.\n\n"}
{"id": "20340184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20340184", "title": "Salamo Arouch", "text": "Salamo Arouch\n\nSalamo Arouch (; January 1, 1923 – April 26, 2009) was a Jewish Greek boxer, the Middleweight Champion of Greece (1938) and the All-Balkans Middleweight Champion (1939), who survived the Holocaust by boxing (over 200 bouts) for the entertainment of Nazi officers in Concentration Camp. His story was portrayed in the 1989 film \"Triumph of the Spirit\", starring Willem Dafoe as Arouch.\n\nSalamo Arouch was born in 1923, in Thessaloniki, Greece, one of two sons in a family that also included three daughters. His father was a stevedore who nurtured his son's interest in boxing, teaching him when he was a child. He worked briefly with his father as a stevedore. Arouch said that when he was 14, he fought and won his first amateur boxing match in 1937 in Maccabi Thessaloniki, a Jewish youth center and gymnasium. He later won the Greek Middleweight Boxing Championship, and in 1939, won the All-Balkans Middleweight Championship, an achievement he was best known for. After compiling an undefeated record of 24 wins (24 knockouts), Arouch joined the Greek Army. While in the military he raised his boxing record to 27 wins (27 knockouts).\n\nIn 1943, Arouch and his family were transported by boxcar and interned in the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in present day Poland. They arrived on May 15, 1943. In Auschwitz, where Arouch was tagged prisoner 136954, he said the commander sought boxers among the newly interned and, once assured of Arouch's abilities, set him to twice- or thrice-weekly boxing matches against other prisoners.\n\nAccording to Arouch, he was undefeated at Auschwitz, though two matches he was forced to fight while recovering from dysentery ended in draws. Lodged with the other fighters forced to participate in these matches and paid in extra food or lighter work, Salamo fought 208 matches in his estimation, knowing that prisoners who lost would be sent to the gas chamber or shot. Fights generally lasted until one fighter went down or the Nazis got tired of watching. Arouch claimed he weighed about 135 pounds and often fought much larger men. Once, he finished off a 250-pound opponent in only 18 seconds.\n\nThough Arouch survived the war, being released from Auschwitz on January 17, 1945, his parents and siblings did not. In 1945, he was transferred to Bergen-Belsen, where he worked performing slave labor until the allies liberated the camp. During a search for family at Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in April, 1945, he met Marta Yechiel, a 17-year-old survivor from his own hometown. With Yechiel, he immigrated to Israel and settled in Tel Aviv, where he managed a shipping firm. Arouch and Yechiel wed in November 1945 and raised a family of four.\n\nAfter the war he gave inspirational speeches. Arouch's undefeated boxing record (1937–1955) ended on June 8, 1955, when he was knocked out in 4 rounds by Italy's Amleto Falcinelli in Tel Aviv.\n\nArouch was a consultant on the movie, \"Triumph of the Spirit\", the 1989 dramatic reenactment of his early life. He accompanied filmmakers several times on an emotional return to the concentration camp where large portions of the film were actually produced. The film takes some artistic liberties with the biographical details of his life, including the renaming of his wife and placing her in his story prior to internment.\n\nAfter the movie came out, another Jewish boxer from Salonika, Jacques \"Jacko\" Razon, sued Arouch and the filmmakers for more than $20 million claiming that they had stolen his story and that Arouch had exaggerated his exploits. The case was later settled for $30 thousand.\n\nArouch died on April 26, 2009, in Israel. He had been weakened by a stroke he suffered around 1994 and had been in declining health for six months prior to his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21979677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21979677", "title": "Shorty Awards", "text": "Shorty Awards\n\nThe Shorty Awards, also known as the \"Shortys\", is an annual awards show recognizing the people and organizations that produce real-time short form content across Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, YouTube, Instagram and the rest of the social web.\n\nThe awards are organized by public relations software company \"Sawhorse Media\". The annual ceremony began in 2008 with awards for achievements on the Twitter platform. Since then, the awards have expanded to recognize content creation on other social networking sites, including YouTube, Tumblr, Instagram, Vine, Snapchat, YouNow, Periscope and Facebook.\n\nAn awards ceremony is held each spring and streamed live. Each award recognizes the entire body of work of the content creator for the calendar year, rather than an individual tweet or post. A 2012 \"Forbes\" magazine article about the awards commented: \"The Shortys recognize that social media is about more than who can get the most followers ... we are creating millions of pieces of new writing that will define our generation. ... These writings ... are creating our history of record.\"\n\nThe awards were created in 2008 by tech entrepreneurs Greg Galant, Adam Varga, and Lee Semel of Sawhorse Media. They invited Twitter account holders to nominate the best Twitter users in general categories such as humor, news, food, and design. Winners were chosen by more than 30,000 Twitter users during the voting period. The founders of Twitter first heard about the awards after the contest had gotten underway and expressed support for it.\n\nThe first Shorty Awards ceremony was held on February 11, 2009, at the Galapagos Art Space in Brooklyn, New York. Approximately 300 people attended the event. The event was hosted by CNN anchor Rick Sanchez and featured appearances by prominent Twitter users MC Hammer and Gary Vaynerchuk and a video appearance by Shaquille O'Neal. The awards, in 26 categories, were voted on by Twitter users.\n\nVoting for the second Shorty Awards opened on January 5, 2010, in 26 official categories. A Real-Time Photo of the Year category was added to the list of official categories for the first time, recognizing the best photo posted to services such as Twitpic, Yfrog, or Facebook.\n\nThe second Shorty Awards competition introduced a panel of judges called the Real-Time Academy of Short Form Arts & Sciences whose members were Craig Newmark, David Pogue, Kurt Andersen, Caterina Fake, Joi Ito, Frank Moss, Alberto Ibargüen, Sreenath Sreenivasan, MC Hammer, Alyssa Milano and Jimmy Wales. After public nominations determined the finalists, the Academy decided on the winners.\n\nWinners were announced at a ceremony held in the Times Center in \"The New York Times\" building in Manhattan, and were streamed online. The ceremony was hosted by CNN anchor Rick Sanchez, who presented awards in the official categories as well as the newly added Real-Time Photo of the Year and a special humanitarian award.\n\nThe nomination period for the third annual Shorty Awards opened in January, 2011, and ran through February 11, 2011, except for new categories that had extended nomination deadlines. There were 30 official categories, and five special categories. In addition to Real-Time Photo of the Year, for the first time the awards accepted nominations for Foursquare Mayor of the Year, Foursquare Location of the Year, Microblog of the Year on Tumblr, and a Connecting People award. The awards also introduced new Shorty Industry Awards to recognize the best uses of social media by brands and agencies. A Marketing Jury within the Real-Time Academy of Short Form Arts & Sciences judges the Shorty Industry Awards and determines the winners from among the paid entries. Winners were announced at a ceremony on March 28, 2011, hosted by Aasif Mandvi in the Times Center. Other Shorty Awards presenters were scheduled to include Kiefer Sutherland, Jerry Stiller, Anne Meara, Stephen Wallem, Miss USA Rima Fakih, and Miss Teen USA Kamie Crawford.\n\nThe 4th Annual Shorty Awards featured Ricky Gervias and Tiffani Thiessen. 1.6 million tweeted nominations were made across all the categories to honor the top users on Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Foursquare, YouTube and other internet platforms.\n\nThe ceremony took place on March 27, 2012 at the New York TimesCenter and was hosted by Samantha Bee and Jason Jones. The show began with welcomes from Anderson Cooper and Piers Morgan, with the Gregory Brothers performing live. Tracy Morgan was featured in a short video made for the ceremony. Mayor Mike Bloomberg accepted an award presented by Foursquare co-founder and CEO Dennis Crowley.\n\nThe 5th Annual Shorty Awards ceremony featured Felicia Day, James Urbaniak, Kristian Nairn, Hannibal Buress, Carrie Keagan, Chris Hardwick, David Karp and Coco Rocha. 2.4 million tweeted nominations were made across all the categories to honor the top users on Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Foursquare, YouTube and other internet sites.\n\nThe ceremony took place on April 8, 2013 at the New York TimesCenter and was hosted by Actress Felicia Day. The show began with videos of Felicia Day exploring NYC's internet culture as well as Mayor Michael Bloomberg welcoming the audience with Internet-speak. During the night, Wolf Blitzer announced early poll results of what's trending during the Shorty Awards, and Jimmy Kimmel was given the Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nThe audience was also shown an interview of the Mars Curiosity Rover, led by comedian and actor Seth Green, before accepting the Shorty Award for Foursquare Mayor of the Year.\n\nThe ceremony took place on April 7, 2014 at the New York TimesCenter and was hosted by Comedian Natasha Leggero. The show included appearances by Patton Oswalt, Jamie Oliver, Kristen Bell, Jerry Seinfeld, Moshe Kasher, Julie Klausner, Erin Brady, Guy Kawasaki, Matt Walsh, Retta, Us the Duo, Big Boi, Gilbert Gottfried, Thomas Middleditch, Billie Jean King and Leandra Medine. Winners included Jerry Seinfeld and Will Ferrell.\n\nThe Seventh Annual Shorty Awards was hosted by comedian Rachel Dratch and took place on April 20, 2015 at The Times Center in NYC. The Real-Time Academy, the judging body of the Shortys, tripled in size for the 7th annual Awards and included Alton Brown, Mamrie Hart, Nikki Glaser, OK Go, The Fine Bros, Debbie Sterling, Dan Savage, Deena Varshavskaya and Palmer Luckey. Panic! at the Disco was the musical guest at the ceremony. On-stage presenters included Kevin Jonas, Bill Nye, Bella Thorne, Wyclef Jean, Emily Kinney and Tyler Oakley.\n\nThe Eighth Annual Shorty Awards were held in NYC at the TimesCenter on April 11, 2016. They were hosted by YouTuber, Writer and Comedian Mamrie Hart with musical performances from Nico & Vinz. Winners of the night included Bill Wurtz, DJ Khaled, Misty Copeland, Casey Neistat, Dwayne Johnson, Hannah Hart, Troye Sivan, Baddie Winkle, Kevin Hart and Taraji P. Henson.\n\nThe Ninth Annual Shorty Awards were held in NYC at the TimesCenter on April 23, 2017. They were hosted by two-time Emmy Award winner Tony Hale with a musical performance by Lizzo. Winners of the night included Bill Nye, Shay Mitchell, Doug the Pug, Gigi Gorgeous, Simone Biles, Mara Wilson, Gaten Matarazzo and Chrissy Teigen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17521747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17521747", "title": "Simon Beresford-Wylie", "text": "Simon Beresford-Wylie\n\nSimon Beresford-Wylie (born 18 May 1958 in the United Kingdom) is Global Executive Advisor and Executive Vice President to the Networks Business Unit of Samsung Electronics, and the former President and CEO of Nokia Siemens Networks. He was a member of the Group Executive Board of Nokia Corporation from 1 February 2005 until 31 October 2009. He was a member of the Board of Directors of the Vitec Group from 1 March 2006 until 30 November 2013.\n\nBeresford-Wylie is a dual UK-Australian citizen, is married and has two children, Edward and Guy.\n\nBeresford-Wylie worked for Australian government agencies responsible for taxation and for industry policy from 1982 until 1989, before entering the private sector.\n\nSince 1989, Beresford-Wylie held various management positions within Australia’s Telstra Corporation’s Corporate and Government Business Unit. In 1995, he became the Chief Executive Officer of an Indian mobile operator Modi Telstra (a joint venture between Telstra Corporation and ModiCorp of India).\n\nBeresford-Wylie joined Nokia in 1998. He held several positions in Nokia in Asia and Europe before becoming the head Nokia’s infrastructure business group in February 2005. He was the Executive Vice President and General Manager for Nokia Networks, before becoming Chief Executive Officer of Nokia Siemens Networks in 2007.\n\nBeresford-Wylie left his position as CEO of Nokia Siemens Networks on 30 September 2009. He was succeeded by Rajeev Suri.\n\nOn 4 November 2009, Beresford-Wylie became the CEO of Elster Group, a technology and innovation driven provider of smart metering and smart grid systems and solutions to the gas, electricity and water industries. Elster Group was acquired by Melrose PLC in August 2012.\n\nBeresford-Wylie was Chief Executive of Digital Mobile Spectrum Limited (DMSL), also known as at800, from 14 January 2013 until 30 November 2013. DMSL, a UK based Company, has responsibility for mitigating potential interference issues arising from the coexistence of digital terrestrial television (DTT) and 4G mobile services in the 800 MHz band.\n\nOn 1 December 2013, Beresford-Wylie was appointed Global Executive Advisor (EVP) to the Networks Business of Samsung Electronics. He is based in Suwon, Korea.\n\nOn 22 June 2015 UK broadcasting and communications infrastructure and services provider Arqiva named Simon Beresford-Wylie as its new CEO, replacing John Cresswell.\n\nSimon holds a degree in economic geography and history from the Australian National University. He is a graduate of the Executive Development Program of Stanford University/National University of Singapore.\n"}
{"id": "1137472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1137472", "title": "Star routes", "text": "Star routes\n\nStar routes is a term used in connection with the United States postal service and the contracting of mail delivery services. The term is defunct as of 1970, but still is occasionally used to refer to \"Highway Contract Routes\" or HCRs which replaced the Star routes.\n\nPrior to 1845, transportation of inland mail, other than by railroad or steamboat, was given to bidders who offered stage or coach service.\n\nThis was abolished by act of Congress on March 3, 1845, which provided that the postmaster-general should lease all such contracts to the lowest bidder who tendered sufficient guarantee of faithful performance, without any conditions, except to provide for due celerity, certainty and security of transportation. These bids became known as \"celerity, certainty and security bids\" and were designated on the route registers by three stars (***), thus becoming known as \"star routes.\"\n\nThe \"Star Route Frauds\" scandal involved a lucrative 19th century scheme whereby United States postal officials received bribes in exchange for awarding postal delivery contracts in southern and western areas.\n\nAn investigation into the Star Routes corruption took place under President James A. Garfield in 1881. Two previous congressional investigations into the Star Route frauds had occurred in 1872 and 1876 during the Grant Administration. The 1872 investigation results had been tainted by bribery, while the 1876 investigation managed to shut down the Star Route frauds temporarily. A resurgence of graft took place in 1878 in the Hayes Administration, continuing into the Garfield Administration. Among the major players involved were some of the large contractors, the ex-US Representative Bradley Barlow of Vermont, the Second Assistant Postmaster-General, some of the subordinates in the department, and Arkansas Senator Stephen W. Dorsey, who became Secretary of the Republican National Committee during James A. Garfield's 1880 presidential campaign. After Garfield's death by assassination, President Chester A. Arthur pursued the investigation. A federal prosecution and trial took place in 1882, that was finally able to shut down the postal ring.\n\nAlthough the fraudulent scheme was widespread, there were few convictions. Many of the defendants in the Star Routes trials were successfully defended by noted lawyer and orator, Robert Ingersoll. Public disgust over the Star Routes graft served as an impetus for civil service reform and the passage of the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act in 1883.\n\nStar Routes, now known as Highway Contract Routes (or HCRs) as of 1970, have become a mode of delivering mail directly to customers. Historically, Highway Contract Routes were used rarely for mail delivery to households. An exception was in rural areas with less than one customer per mile.\n\nIn modern usage, HCRs can be used any place to deliver mail directly to customers. They are often used to deliver mail in growth areas such as new housing tracts. Some of these routes are being started in areas where there are as few as twenty deliveries per day.\n\nSince 2000, the US Postal Service has added the term \"Contract Delivery Service\" (CDS) as their newest version of the Star Route. These routes are specifically set up to serve newly created urban communities. CDS carriers do not transport mail, and are being used in an attempt to find delivery drivers who will work for less than USPS carrier wages. As of 2007, several thousand of these CDS routes have been created, with plans for far more.\n\nMany contractors are no longer individuals wanting to transport mail between post offices, or to deliver mail in a remote community where they live. This new concentration of more urban contract routes has made it practical for businesses to bid on multiple contracts, and then seek out workers who will carry those routes for less money than the US Postal Service pays on each contract. The US Postal Service is still attempting to find an equilibrium between the dependability of career postal carriers and the cost savings of contractors acting as a temp agency.\n\nThere is some debate as to how much control the Postal Service can exercise over these contract routes and have them remain contractors. Exactly where the line is that will mark the difference between an HCR being a contractor and an employee is not clear.\n\n"}
{"id": "57878735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57878735", "title": "TD Ameritrade Network", "text": "TD Ameritrade Network\n\nTD Ameritrade Network is an American streaming business news radio network. It was launched on October 24, 2017 as a free to the public service that started with four hours of live original programming. From the outset, expanded hours beyond the 8:30 AM – 12:30 PM were envisioned. By February 2018, the network was airing from 7:00 AM to 4:00 PM from its Chicago headquarters.\n\n"}
{"id": "32410845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32410845", "title": "The Competition Act, 2002", "text": "The Competition Act, 2002\n\nThe Competition Act, 2002 was enacted by the Parliament of India and governs Indian competition law. It replaced the archaic The Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969. Under this legislation, the Competition Commission of India was established to prevent the activities that have an adverse effect on competition in India. This act extends to whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nIt is a tool to implement and enforce competition policy and to prevent and punish anti-competitive business practices by firms and unnecessary Government interference in the market. Competition laws is equally applicable on written as well as oral agreement, arrangements between the enterprises or persons.\n\nThe Competition Act, 2002 was amended by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2007 and again by the Competition (Amendment) Act, 2009.\n\nThe Act establishes a Commission which is duty bound to protect the interests of the free and fair competition (including the process of competition), and as a consequence, protect the interests of consumers. Broadly, the Commission's duty is:-\n\nIn addition to this, the Competition Act envisages its enforcement with the aid of mutual international support and enforcement network across the world,\n\nThe Government of India in April 1964 appointed the Monopolies Inquiry Commission under the Chairmanship of Justice K. C Das Gupta, a judge of the Supreme Court, to inquire into the extent and effect of concentration of economic power in private hands and prevalence of monopolistic and restrictive trade practices in important sectors of economic activity other than agriculture.\n\nTo regulate advertising, in 1984, Parliament inserted a chapter on unfair trade practices in the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969.\n\nThe Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Commission was constituted in the year 1970.\n\nThe Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969 had its genesis in the Directive Principles of State Policy embodied in the Constitution of India. It received the assent of the President of India on 27 December, 1969. The Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act was intended to curb the rise of concentration of wealth in a few hands and of monopolistic practices. It was repealed on September 2009. The Act has been succeeded by The Competition Act, 2002.\n\nThe Competition Bill, 2001 was introduced in Lok Sabha by Finance Minister Arun Jaitley on 6 August 2001.\n\n\nEnterprises, persons or associations of enterprises or persons, including cartels, shall not enter into agreements in respect of production, supply, distribution, storage, acquisition or control of goods or provision of services, which cause or are likely to cause an \"appreciable adverse impact\" on competition in India. Such agreements would consequently be considered void. Agreements which would be considered to have an appreciable adverse impact would be those agreements which-\n\nA 'horizontal agreement' is an agreement for co-operation between two or more competing businesses operating at the same level in the market.\nA vertical agreement is an agreement between firms at different levels of the supply chain. For instance, a manufacturer of consumer electronics might have a vertical agreement with a retailer according to which the latter would promote their products in return for lower prices.\n\nThere shall be an abuse of dominant position if an enterprise imposes directly or indirectly unfair or discriminatory conditions in purchase or sale of goods or services or restricts production or technical development or create hindrance in entry of new operators to the prejudice of consumers. The provisions relating to abuse of dominant position require determination of dominance in the relevant market.\nDominant position enables an entreprise to operate independently or effect competitors by action\n\nThe Act is designed to regulate the operation and activities of combinations, a term, which contemplates acquisition, mergers or amalgamations. Combination that exceeds the threshold limits specified in the Act in terms of assets or turnover, which causes or is likely to cause adverse impact on competition within the relevant market in India, can be scrutinized by the Commission.\n\nCompetition Commission of India is a body corporate and independent entity possessing a common seal with the power to enter into contracts and to sue in its name. It is to consist of a chairperson, who is to be assisted by a minimum of two, and a maximum of six, other members.\nIt is the duty of the Commission to eliminate practices having adverse effect on competition, promote and sustain competition, protect the interests of consumers and ensure freedom of trade in the markets of India. The Commission is also required to give opinion on competition issues on a reference received from a statutory authority established under any law and to undertake competition advocacy, create public awareness and impart training on competition issues.\n\nCommission has the power to inquire into unfair agreements or abuse of dominant position or combinations taking place outside India but having adverse effect on competition in India, if any of the circumstances exists:\nTo deal with cross border issues, Commission is empowered to enter into any Memorandum of Understanding or arrangement with any foreign agency of any foreign country with the prior approval of Central Government.\n\nAny person aggrieved by an order of the Commission can apply to the Commission for review of its order within thirty days from the date of the order. Commission may entertain a review application after the expiry of thirty days, if it is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from preferring the application in time. No order shall be modified or set aside without giving an opportunity of being heard to the person in whose favour the order is given and the Director General where he was a party to the proceedings.\n\nAny person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Commission may file an appeal to the Supreme Court within sixty days from the date of communication of the decision or order of the Commission. No appeal shall lie against any decision or order of the Commission made with the consent of the parties.\n\nIf any person fails to comply with the orders or directions of the Commission shall be punishable with fine which may extend to ₹ 1 lakh for each day during which such non compliance occurs, subject to a maximum of ₹ 10 crore.\n\nIf any person does not comply with the orders or directions issued, or fails to pay the fine imposed under this section, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which will extend to three years, or with fine which may extend to ₹ 25 crores or with both.\n\nSection 44 provides that if any person, being a party to a combination makes a statement which is false in any material particular or knowing it to be false or omits to state any material particular knowing it to be material, such person shall be liable to a penalty which shall not be less than ₹ 50 lakhs but which may extend to ₹ 1 crore.\n\n"}
{"id": "24677174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24677174", "title": "The Harvest (2010 film)", "text": "The Harvest (2010 film)\n\nThe Harvest () is a 2010 documentary film about agricultural child labor in America. The film depicts children as young as 12 years of age who work as many as 12 hours a day, six months a year, subject to hazardous conditions: heat exposure, pesticides, and dangerous work. The agriculture industry has been subject to significantly more lenient labor laws than any other occupation in the United States. As a result, lack of consistent schooling significantly limits their opportunities of succeeding in high school or more. The hazardous conditions threaten their health and lives. The purpose of the documentary is to bring awareness of the harsh working conditions which tens of thousands of children face in the fields of the United States each year and to enact the Children's Act for Responsible Employment (CARE Act, HR 3564) which will bring parity of labor conditions to field workers that are afforded to minors in other occupations.\n\nThe Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has different standards for children working in agriculture than in any other industry. The Association of Farmworker Opportunity Programs estimates that there are between 400,000 and 500,000 children working in the farming industry. Children as young as 12 years of age work in the fields. There is no minimum number of hours worked a day, aside from being outside school hours. They are exposed to the sun, harmful pesticides and hazardous conditions. Children are in up to three times greater danger of exposure to pesticides than adults due to their size and stage of development. The fatality rate is six times that in any other industry: children account for 20% of all deaths on farms. Although agriculture is a hazardous occupation, no statistics are maintained on child laborers and serious accidents.\n\nChildren who work on farms or in fields spend on average 30 hours a week, even during times of the year when school is in session. Of the children who work on farms, 50% of them will not graduate from high school. The United States Department of Labor estimates that children earn about $1,000 in one year.\n\n\"The Harvest\" is a feature documentary film on the life of migrant children and their families in the United States. It revisits Edward R. Murrow’s \"Harvest of Shame\", filmed 53 years ago, and reveals that little has changed over the past five decades in the lives of migrant farm workers in the United States. \"The Harvest\", however, is told from a child's perspective as it presents four of the more than 400,000 children between the ages of 5 and 16 who labor in fields and factories, lacking the protections offered by the Fair Labor Standards Act that all other American children enjoy.\n\nThe film profiles several children and their families as they work through the 2009 - 2010 harvest seasons, facing risks of being separated, deported or death. A twelve-year-old girl, Zulema L., works in a field of strawberries. One of her earliest memories is being taught by her mother to pick and clean strawberries. Zulema struggles academically because of the family's seasonal movement. She has attended eight different schools in eight years. Not confident that she will make it to high school, she has no dreams about what her future could hold. The documentary tracks other children with their own stories of living a life of a child laborer.\n\nWork began on the documentary in June 2007 and through the 2009 - 2010 harvests. In that time the project has followed harvests in Minnesota, North Dakota, Texas, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina and Ohio. The documentary was shot with cinematic scope. Post-production began in early winter 2010, with the completion of the film in fall 2010.\n\n\"The Harvest\" was produced by Shine Global in association with Globalvision, Romano Film and Photography, and Eva Longoria's UnbeliEVAble Productions. Longoria signed on as an executive producer of the project in 2009. It was directed by U. Roberto (Robin) Romano, photographer of \"Faces of Freedom\".\n\n\"The Harvest\" premiered at the International Documentary Film Festival IDFA in Amsterdam in November 2010, and at the Guadalajara International Film Festival in Guadalajara, Mexico on March 26, 2011. Distributed by Cinema Libre, The film had its theatrical debut in New York City on July 29, 2011, and became available on DVD October 2011.\n\nEva Longoria, director U. Roberto Romano, and associate director Julia Perez visited Capitol Hill to mark the anniversary of Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard’s introduction of the CARE Act legislation in September 2009. The Children’s Act for Responsible Employment (CARE Act, HR 3564) addresses the harshest conditions that tens of thousands of children as young as 12 years of age may be subject to, such as restrictions in the number of hours that children work in a day. The intention of the bill is to raise the standard for children working in agriculture to that of any other occupation in the United States. As of September 1, 2010 the bill had 103 co-sponsors. While on Capitol Hill, Longoria and Romano showed scenes from the feature-length documentary to illustrate the harsh working conditions and exploitation of children in the fields.\n\nA trailer of the film was first privately screened at a United States Department of Labor panel discussion, hosted by Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis and including Dolores Huerta of the United Farm Workers, filmmaker Robin Romano, Mark Lara from the Department of Labor's Wage and Hour Division, and other experts. During the presentation, details of Roybal-Allard's bill were outlined: a child must be a minimum of 14 years of age to work in the fields, children under the age of 16 are restricted from working in the fields if it affects their health or school performance, and children under the age of 18 are restricted from hazardous work.\n\nOn August 12 of 2014, the film's Associate Director, Julia Perez, spoke before the United Nations Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination on behalf of farm worker rights and child labor in U.S. agriculture. The UN press release mentioned exposure to pesticides, wage theft, sexual assault, police harassment and other illegal working conditions faced by children — largely Latino children who either were born in the United States or migrated with their families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5748751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5748751", "title": "The Invisible Bankers", "text": "The Invisible Bankers\n\nInvisible Bankers: Everything the Insurance Industry Never Wanted You to Know is a 1982 book on the insurance industry. It was written by the financial journalist Andrew Tobias who became famous for his earlier book \"The Only Investment Guide You'll Ever Need\". It covers the financial details of life, auto, health and fire insurance—the types consumers normally buy.\n\nBecause insurers are frequently the victims of insurance fraud, insurance companies need to be on their guard. In addition, an unscrupulous insurer could, in theory, make more profits if it could either induce their insureds into settling for less than they are entitled to or from outright wrongly denying valid claims in hopes that a small yet significant percentage would either get discouraged or wrongly believe that their claims were invalid. This makes dealings with insurers difficult. This book was the first guide to ordinary consumers into both the math and the business side of insurance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5283701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5283701", "title": "Thomas P. G. Cholmondeley", "text": "Thomas P. G. Cholmondeley\n\nThe Hon. Thomas Patrick Gilbert Cholmondeley ( ; 19 June 1968 – 17 August 2016) was a Kenyan farmer. He was the great-grandson of the 3rd Baron Delamere, one of the first and most influential British settlers in Kenya, and was heir to the Delamere title at the time of his death, being the eldest son of the 5th Baron Delamere.\n\nIn April 2005, he shot and killed a Kenya Wildlife Service game ranger on his ranch. He claimed self-defence, and the murder case was dropped before going to trial. In May 2006, he shot and killed a poacher on his Soysambu estate near Lake Naivasha. He was acquitted of murder, but found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to serve eight months in prison. He was released on 23 October 2009, and died in 2016.\n\nCholmondeley was a great-grandson of Hugh Cholmondeley, 3rd Baron Delamere (1870–1931), a pioneering settler in Kenya who was the effective \"founder\" of the White community in that country. Cholmondeley was the only son and heir of The 5th Baron Delamere (b. 1934) and his wife Anne, \"née\" Renison. His family is one of the large-scale landowners in Kenya. He is also a descendant of Sir Robert Walpole, the first Prime Minister of Great Britain.\n\nAfter prep school at Pembroke House, in the town of Gilgil, Kenya, and Ashdown House School, in the village of Forest Row in East Sussex, he was educated at Eton College, from where he was expelled for bad behaviour. After school he worked on various farms for his \"pupil year\", including time working on Kenneth Matiba's farm, Wangu Embori. He attended the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester, 1987–1990, and then worked for the Agricultural Mortgage Corporation in Andover, Great Britain.\n\nBack in Kenya from 1991 Cholmondeley started working for the family farming business and was then involved in many developing projects. He decided against returning to Britain, and stayed to work in Kenya, where he was eventually made finance director of the Delamere beef and dairy farms. \"The Daily Nation\" reported that the estate became a no-go area for trespassers and locals. By the 1990s he gained a reputation as an outstanding farmer, conscientious and diligent, he paid high attention to the quality of the land and soil while pursuing a traditional agenda for conservancy. He established a game cropping enterprise on Soysambu Ranch, the vast family estate in Kenya, which ran from 1992–2003, and which employed 15 people as well as building a modern abattoir and cold storage facilities. He was also responsible for the design and layout of the Soysambu Wildlife Sanctuary and the building of Delamere's Camp in 1993, a high-class tourist lodge with a exclusive sanctuary covering the area around Lake Elmenteita.\n\nCholmondeley was diligent in the employment of local labour; he employed hundreds of paid workers and voluntarily assisted others in many micro-projects. He was promoted as director of Delamere Estates in 1994, and the following year the chairman of Nakuru Wildlife Conservancy, a position he was elected to twice again. In his attempts to keep poaching to a minimum he was appointed an honorary game warden. In 1996 he introduced the first centre pivot irrigation into Naivasha and eventually the scheme covered over and provided employment for approximately 500 people. In the same year he organised the reconstruction of the \"Delamere Milk Shop\" into a petrol station on the outskirts of Naivasha, the A104 highway. This is now a massive concern and Kenya's busiest farm shop. Of note is the constructed wetland to cope with the sewage resulting from over 3000 customers per day.\n\nHis energies turned to building the first straw bale building in Gilgil, the location being on the edge of the Otutu forest. He created the leases and design criteria for two further tourist lodges, Mbweha Camp on the edge of Lake Nakuru National Park, and Mawe Mbili lodge. This is part of the greater plan for the Soysambu Conservancy, together with the establishment of two forestry partnerships covering .\n\nWhile Cholmondeley was conscientious in his farm work, he was hedonistic in his free time - \"wild women...rallying-car driving, motorcycling, paragliding\". He was 1986 Kenya Novice Motocross Champion. In one episodic adventure he was confronted by a cape buffalo that seriously gored his leg, leaving a long gash and huge scar. It was in hospital that he met Dr Sally Brewerton of Medecins Sans Frontieres. They married a year later in 1998, and had two sons.\n\nOn 19 April 2005, Cholmondeley shot game ranger Samson ole Sisina, working undercover for the Kenya Wildlife Service on his ranch in Gilgil division, Nakuru District. He arrived at the slaughterhouse after his ranch employees had summoned his help during what seemed to be a robbery. The accusation was that he shot the KWS employee who was dressed in plain clothes, but Cholmondeley insisted it was in self-defense as the ranger had shot at him first without warning. However, a witness account says the victim was shot in the back. The Attorney General Amos Wako discontinued the case by issuing a \"nolle prosequi\". This decision was widely criticised by Kenyan media and the public, with many claiming he walked free due to the influence of class and position. There was a public outcry in Nairobi, and from Masai who wanted to occupy Delamere land. Nick Maes, a \"Sunday Telegraph\" reporter, years later found a complex man challenged by changing Kenyan conditions, rising criminality in the countryside, and mounting criticism of white ownership in Kenya generally.\n\nOn 10 May 2006, he was taken again into custody for the killing of Robert Njoya Mbugua, a Kikuyu tribesman, looking for food for his family, whom he had discovered on his land with three companions and a pack of dogs, carrying the caracass of an antelope they had killed on the estate. Cholmondeley told police he had shot at the poachers' dogs, standard practice under Kenya Wildlife Service guidelines, killing two of them, and that he had not intended to shoot Njoya, whom he saw lying wounded in the hedgerow. The dead man's companions disputed that version of events. What was undisputed was that Cholmondeley applied a tourniquet to the bleeding man and shouted for a car to take him to hospital, as well as calling the police.\nCholmondeley was held in detention - the only white man out of 3,600 inmates - at the Kamiti Maximum Security Prison after the incident and during the ongoing court proceedings in a tiny cell in the prison outside Nairobi, \"like living inside a greasy saucepan infested with rats and cockroaches.\" Cholmondeley was divorced but a girlfriend, jeweller Sally Dudmesh, visited him in prison every week.\n\nThe trial began 25 September 2006. An interlocutory appeal on a question of procedural law was decided on 13 June 2008. He won an appeal to uphold his right to a fair trial. In March 2009, lay assessors in his trial found him not guilty. On 7 May 2009, Judge Muga Apondi, sitting as a single judge and not bound by the lay assessors' verdict, acquitted Cholmondeley of murder but found him guilty of the lesser offence of manslaughter.\n\nThe verdict of April 2009 was largely based on the evidence by rally driver Carl Tundo, who had accompanied his friend Cholmondeley to the scene. On 14 May 2009 Cholmondeley was sentenced to serve a further eight months in prison. Apondi said he was imposing a \"light\" sentence given that he had been imprisoned for three years already, and had tried to help Njoya with first aid and transport to hospital. Cholmondeley was released early for good behaviour in October 2009 after serving five months of his eight-month prison sentence.\n\nIn an interview he expressed his opinions:\nWhile murder carries a mandatory death sentence, manslaughter has a statutory maximum of life imprisonment but with no mandatory minimum sentence under Kenyan law.\n\nBBC Four's \"Storyville\" series featured the Cholmondeley trial in an episode titled \"Last White Man Standing\".\n\nIn 1997, Cholmondeley was gored by a buffalo while walking to a launching site for paragliding in the Masai Mara.\n\nHe married on 16 May 1998, Sally A. Brewerton. They had two sons but later divorced.\n\nHe had been a keen motor sportsman and was Kenya Novice Motocross champion in 1986 and runner-up in the Kenya Enduro championship in 2000. In addition he held a private pilot's licence PPL since 2000 and flew in Kenya, Britain, France, Germany, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Mozambique.\n\nCholmondeley died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday 17 August 2016 while undergoing hip surgery at MP Shah Hospital Nairobi. He is survived by his sons, Hugh (b. 1998) (now heir apparent of the Delamere barony) and Henry (b. 2000).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6244253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6244253", "title": "Tomás Godoy Cruz", "text": "Tomás Godoy Cruz\n\nTomás Godoy Cruz (May 6, 1791 – May 15, 1852) was an Argentine statesman and businessman. He was a representative to the Congress of Tucumán which on July 9, 1816 declared the Independence of Argentina.\n\nGodoy Cruz was born in Mendoza. He studied in Mendoza, then in Chile at the Royal University of San Felipe, graduating in philosophy, canonical and civil law. He lived in Chile until 1814, and served in the Santiago Cabildo (council) during the last year of his stay. He then returned to Mendoza, setting up a gunpowder factory. He agitated to make General José de San Martín governor of Cuyo, and helped finance the Army of the Andes.\n\nIn 1815, at just 24 years old, Godoy Cruz was elected by Mendoza to the Tucumán Congress and served in 1816 for the declaration. He was president on two occasions and vice-president on one.\nHe subsequently served as governor of Mendoza Province 1820-22. In 1831 he was exiled to Chile where he was a teacher and pioneered silkworm cultivation. He was also a successful merchant of woven goods.\n\nThe city of Godoy Cruz and its surrounding department in Mendoza, and streets across the country were named in his honour.\n\n"}
{"id": "49635059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49635059", "title": "Trushar Khetia", "text": "Trushar Khetia\n\nTrushar Khetia, is a Kenyan businessman and entrepreneur. He is the founder and current Chairman and CEO of the Tria Group of companies, including a chain of supermarkets known as Society Stores Supermarkets.\n\nHe was born on 29 November 1986 in Kitale, in the Trans-Nzoia County of Kenya. The family owned a retail shop which has since morphed into \"Khetia Supermarkets\". He studied at a local elementary school before transferring to Nairobi schools for his O-Level and A-Level studies. At age 17, in 2004, he was admitted to Manchester Business School, graduating in 2007, with the degree of Bachelor of Business Management, specializing in marketing.\nFollowing graduation from university, he found employment in the United Kingdom, as a business development manager at Procter & Gamble (P&G), working there for 3 years until 2010. In June 2011, he returned to Kenya and worked in the family business in Kitale for one year. Following disagreements with some family members regarding business direction, he decided to relocate to Nairobi and strike out on his own. In 2013, he started Tria Group, a business that specializes in advertising on transit media like buses and airplanes. He started the business in Kenya and in 2014 he opened up a similar business in Tanzania.\n\nIn November 2014, using his savings from the P&G days, profits from his transit media businesses and loans from family and friends, Trushar Khetia acquired an operating supermarket in Thika, inclusive of stock. He closed the store down for ten days while re-branding and then opened his first Society Stores supermarket. As at March 2016, Society Stores owns and operates four supermarkets in Thika, Maua, Meru and Naivasha, with plans to open in Limuru and Nairobi in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "20469204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20469204", "title": "Vigor Brown", "text": "Vigor Brown\n\nJohn Vigor Brown (18 June 1854 – 2 September 1942), known as Vigor Brown, was a New Zealand Member of Parliament for Napier, in the North Island. He was Mayor of Napier for a total of 18 years. He was a well-known figure in his adopted city, a successful businessman, and involved in many clubs and organisations.\n\nBrown was born in London in 1854. For his parents, Jessie Gilmour and John Brown, it was their third boy and last child. Both parents had Scottish ancestry. His father worked for a bank, and was later a commercial traveller. The family briefly lived in France before emigrating to Victoria, Australia. John Vigor Brown, his brothers and their mother arrived in Melbourne on 22 January 1862 on the \"Water Nymph\". It is assumed that his father was already there. They made their home in South Yarra. He was educated at Melbourne Church of England Grammar School. James Drysdale Brown was an elder brother.\n\nBrown learned the trade of a wholesale merchant (clothing) at the firm Sargood, King and Sargood in Melbourne. He came to Wellington in 1875. For two years, he worked for the Wellington firm of A. P. Stewart and Company as a travelling sales person. His next employment brought him to Napier, where he remained for the rest of his life. He became branch manager for Archibald Clark and Sons, an importing company. He resigned from that position in May 1898 and took on the management of Neal and Close, where he was managing director at a later point. He formed his own company, J. Vigor Brown and Co. He was further managing director of White Swan Brewery, and Hawke's Bay Soap and Tannery. He was a director of the Napier Gas Company. He was the local agent for the United and Phoenix Fire Insurance Companies.\n\nHe was voted onto both the Napier Harbour Board and the Napier Borough Council in 1898. He was chairman of the Harbour Board from February 1904 until April 1911. He was a member of the Chamber of Commerce.\n\nHe was elected Mayor of Napier in April 1907. He was mayor for three periods: 1907–1917, 1919–1921 and 1927–1933. The 1931 Hawke's Bay earthquake fell into Brown's last period, and temporary governance arrangement included a Napier Citizens' Control Committee, followed by a two-man Government Commission. J. S. Barton and L. B. Campbell were farewelled by the mayor in May 1933, when their term ended and the municipal affairs once again rested with the borough council. The resulting mayoral election was contested by the incumbent and C O Morse, the chairman of the Earthquake Relief Committee. The election caused great interest, and Morse and Brown received 4110 and 1808 votes, respectively. At the time, mayoral elections were held every two years, but the 1931 election had been skipped due to the earthquake. While mayor Brown was involved in the new Hawke's Bay Rugby League and helped them secure access to McLean Park in 1911.\n\nThe Napier electorate had been held since the 1899 election by Alfred Fraser. Fraser stood again in the 1908 election, but although he was with the Liberal Party, Brown also contested the electorate as a Liberal. Brown won the contest with a majority of 1035 votes (3803 votes to 2768).\n\nIn the 1911 election, Brown was challenged by Henry Hill. Both men were supporters of the current Liberal government. Brown and Hill received 3858 and 2825 votes, respectively.\n\nBrown successfully contested the for the Liberal Party, but the party's leader, Joseph Ward, failed to win re-election in the electorate. When Thomas Wilford became leader later in 1920, Brown objected and transferred his allegiance to the Reform Party.\n\nBrown served in the New Zealand House of Representatives for fourteen years from 1908 to 1922. He contested the as the official candidate for the Reform Party and of the four candidates, he came last. The reasons for this were due to a split in the Reform vote. Prime Minister William Massey had given Brown the official party endorsement, despite the local Reform committee having already chosen John Mason as their candidate. Neither was victorious and the seat was won by Labour's Lewis McIlvride.\n\nIn , Brown failed to receive Reform nomination with new party organizer Albert Davy ensuring it went to Mason. He later stood unsuccessfully as an independent in .\n\nBrown married Caroline Balaclava Cook, daughter of the late John Cook of Auckland, on 27 November 1880 at St John's Church in Napier. They had four daughters and two sons before Caroline died from peritonitis on 6 September 1891 at the young age of 36. He remarried on 19 September 1894 to Violet McConechie Bogle. There were no further children from this second marriage.\n\nIn 1910, Brown had a 31' launch built for the family, named \"Water Nymph\" after the ship used for his emigration to Victoria during his childhood.\n\nHis second wife predeceased him on 23 February 1924. Brown died on 2 September 1942 in Napier, where he had lived since 1877. After his death, his family took on the surname Vigor-Brown.\n\n"}
{"id": "15431784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15431784", "title": "WCAT (AM)", "text": "WCAT (AM)\n\nWCAT (1390 kHz) is a commercial AM radio station licensed to Burlington, Vermont, United States, and serving the Burlington-Plattsburgh area. The station is owned by Radio Broadcasting Services, Inc. According to FCC records, WCAT's tower #1 is the tallest man-made structure in the state of Vermont.\n\nWCAT broadcasts at 5,000 watts around the clock, with a non-directional signal by day. But to protect other stations on AM 1390 at night when AM radio waves travel farther, it uses a directional antenna after sunset. WCAT's transmitter is located off Intervale Road in Burlington. Studios and offices are on Water Tower Circle in Colchester, Vermont.\n\nWCAT also airs on an FM translator, W252CJ, at 98.3 MHz, to give listeners the option to hear the station in FM stereo.\n\nThe station first signed on as WDOT on April 19, 1954 on the AM 1400 frequency at 1,000 watts of power. WDOT was Burlington's top-40 radio station for years and also an affiliate of the ABC Contemporary Radio Network. The station later moved to its current frequency, AM 1390, and was allowed to broadcast with 5,000 watts of power both daytme and nighttime. The station uses a three-tower directional antenna at night to protect 1390 co-channels in Syracuse, New York (WFBL), Presque Isle, Maine (WEGP), and Plymouth, Massachusetts (WPLM).\nThe station changed its call sign to WKDR on June 1, 1993. The WKDR calls originated on the AM 1070 frequency, licensed to Plattsburgh, New York (which now operates as WPLB), and the move benefited WKDR, since its previous position operates only in the daytime, protecting the former 50,000-watt clear channel (1-B) station, CBA in Moncton, New Brunswick.\n\nThe station changed its call letters to WVAA on September 24, 2002, and to the current WCAT on August 21, 2006.\n\nWCAT, as a sports radio station, switched affiliations from ESPN Radio to Fox Sports Radio on January 1, 2011; the ESPN affiliation has moved to 101.3 WCPV. Through much of 2011, WCAT broadcast a sports talk format in simulcast with sister stations WRSA (1420 AM) and WFAD (1490 AM) as \"Fox Sports Vermont.\" By the end of the year, it had switched to an oldies music format simulcast with WIFY as \"Cruisin' 93.7\".\n\nOn September 1, 2014 WCAT (with sister station WRSA) dropped the simulcast with WIFY and switched to a comedy radio format. The two stations switched back to oldies in July 2015. In early January 2017 WCAT and WRSA both went dark. The oldies format relocated to 1070 WPLB, which several months earlier had been sold by WCAT owner Northeast Broadcasting. \n\nOn January 9, 2017, WCAT returned to the air, launching a business news format.\n\n"}
{"id": "12746604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12746604", "title": "Washington Boulevard Historic District", "text": "Washington Boulevard Historic District\n\nWashington Boulevard Historic District is a multi-block area of downtown Detroit, Michigan. It consists of structures facing Washington Boulevard between State and Clifford Streets. In 1982, it was added to the National Register of Historic Places. It includes the Book-Cadillac Hotel, the Book Tower, the Industrial Building, and Detroit City Apartments among other architecturally significant buildings. Washington Boulevard is one of the city's main boulevards and part of Augustus Woodward's 1807-design for the city. Because Woodward's plan was never completed, the boulevard contains a sharp curve south of Michigan Avenue where it was connected to an existing street.\n\nThe street was broadened and ornamented in the early part of the 20th century. The development was inspired by the City Beautiful movement and financed by J. Burgess Book Jr. and designed by Louis Kamper. It was to resemble New York's Fifth Avenue and European boulevards. A sculpture lined park between two one-way streets decorated a shopping district and upscale residential neighborhood Edward H. Bennett, a well known master planner, turned Washington Boulevard into a Beaux-Arts streetscape.\n\nIn the late 1970s, Washington Boulevard was redesigned with an urban pedestrian mall that included new sculptures and an amphitheater. It has since been restored to its original plan.\n\nThis list below shows the information on the buildings located along Washington Boulevard. This list starts at the Detroit River (south end), and heads northbound, terminating at Grand Circus Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "788757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=788757", "title": "Éditions Gallimard", "text": "Éditions Gallimard\n\nÉditions Gallimard () is one of the leading French book publishers. \"The Guardian\" has described it as having \"the best backlist in the world\". In 2003 it and its subsidiaries published 1,418 titles.\n\nFounded by Gaston Gallimard in 1911, the publisher is now majority-owned by his grandson Antoine Gallimard.\n\nThe publisher was founded on 31 May 1911 in Paris by Gaston Gallimard, André Gide, and Jean Schlumberger as \"Les Éditions de la Nouvelle Revue Française\" (NRF).\n\nFrom its 31 May 1911 founding until June 1919, Nouvelle Revue Française published one hundred titles including \"La Jeune Parque\" by Paul Valéry. NRF published the second volume of In Search of Lost Time, In the Shadow of Young Girls in Flower, which became the first Prix Goncourt-awarded book published by the company. Nouvelle Revue Française adopted the name \"Librairie Gallimard\" in 1919.\n\nDuring the occupation of France in World War II, Gaston Gallimard was hosted in Carcassonne by poet Joë Bousquet. He returned to Paris on October 1940 to enter discussions with the Nazi German authorities, who wished to control his publishing company. It was agreed that Gaston Gallimard would still control his company if he collaborated with the authorities and published pro-Nazi writings.\n\nÉditions Gallimard's best-selling authors include Albert Camus (29 million copies), Antoine de Saint-Exupéry (26.3 million copies), and J.K. Rowling (whose \"Harry Potter\" series sold 26 million copies). Other important authors include Salman Rushdie, Roald Dahl, Marcel Proust, Philip Roth, George Orwell, Jack Kerouac, Pablo Neruda, and John Steinbeck.\n\nAs of 2011, its catalog consists of 36 Prix Goncourt winners, 38 writers who have received the Nobel Prize in Literature, and ten writers who have been awarded the Pulitzer Prize. In 2010 the company had a turnover of million, and over 1,000 employees.\n\nGallimard acquired Groupe Flammarion from RCS MediaGroup in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
