{"id": "12559806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12559806", "title": "55 Wall Street", "text": "55 Wall Street\n\nThe National City Bank Building at 55 Wall Street between William and Hanover Streets in the Financial District of downtown Manhattan, New York City, was built in 1836–1841 as the Merchants' Exchange, replacing the previous exchange, which had opened in 1827 and burned down in the Great Fire of New York in 1835. The new building was designed by Isaiah Rogers in the Greek Revival style. The United States Custom House moved into the building in 1862 – with the conversion of the building overseen by William A. Potter – and occupied it until 1907, when it moved to the Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House at 1 Bowling Green.\n\nAfter the Custom House left, James Stillman, president of National City Bank (predecessor bank of Citibank), arranged for his company to buy the building from the government to be their headquarters. Charles Follen McKim of McKim, Mead & White was engaged to enlarge the building, including removing the dome, adding four floors and a second colonnade and gutting the interior, the main floor of which McKim redesigned with William S. Richardson (1907-1910). The old main banking hall has been used as a ballroom and event space since 1998, and the remainder of the building is now condominium apartments.\n\n55 Wall Street became the new home of National City Bank on December 19, 1908, when the bank moved across the street from 52 Wall Street. Stillman ordered that the building's Ionic colonnade be preserved and that the interior be remodeled to look like the Pantheon in Rome.\n\n55 Wall Street served as Citibank's global headquarters from 1908 to 1961, when it moved to the newly completed 399 Park Avenue, one of the earlier migrations by Wall Street commercial and investment banks from downtown to midtown Manhattan. Years after the headquarters move, 55 Wall Street continued as a full service retail branch (still carrying the moniker Branch # 001), as well as a substantial location for private banking operations. The building served as the headquarters for the law firm of Shearman & Sterling, lead counsel for Citibank and the Rockefeller family for decades. The building was sold by Citibank in 1990 to private investors for $69 million. Citibank ended its branch banking presence at 55 Wall Street in 1992. It is currently owned by Cipriani.\n\nNotable people who spent time at 55 Wall Street include President Chester A. Arthur, who worked as a customs collector in the 1870s, and writer Herman Melville, who worked as a customs inspector and wrote part of \"Moby Dick\" while working there.\n\nThe original building was designed by Boston architect Isaiah Rogers in the Greek Revival style and built in 1836–1842. The facade of the original four-story, Greek revival style featured twelve massive Ionic columns, each a single block of Quincy Granite.\n\nIn 1899, National City Bank, which subsequently became Citibank, commissioned architect Charles McKim of McKim, Mead & White to remodel the building for use as their headquarters. The architects added four stories to the building and superimposed a second colonnade of Corinthian columns above the original facade. They also redesigned the interior into an immense banking hall (at the time constituting the largest bank branch in the world measuring 188 feet in length and 124 feet in width, known as the Great Hall), featuring a sixty-foot-high central dome and offices at each corner. Monumental Corinthian columns support an elegant entablature that circles the space. The room features elegant gray marble floors and walls, a coffered ceiling, and delicate mezzanine railings.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\" magazine back in 1917, the branch at 55 Wall Street \"does more business in its head office than is done under any other nongovernmental banking roof on the face of the earth.\" \n\nThe exterior of this building was designated a New York City Landmark in 1965. The building was named a National Historic Landmark in 1978.\n\nIn 1998 it was completely rebuilt as The Regent Wall Street Hotel. After the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center in 2001, 55 Wall Street served as a relief center for workers and area residents. The hotel closed in 2003 due to lack of business after the 9/11 attacks. It has recently been renovated again and was converted to condos by the Cipriani S.A. empire of restaurants and ballrooms. The main banking hall \"now serves as one of the most elegant ballrooms in the world\", and has been called a \"facility unequaled in America\"\n\nA curious remnant of the building's days as a customs house were the jail cells used to detain smugglers and spies. Also when National City Bank was doing renovations in 1908 it uncovered a cannonball embedded in a wall as well as keg of gunpowder and over 100 rudimentary bombs, believed to be armaments for Customs House employees during the New York City draft riots of 1863.\n\nThe Designated Landmark of New York City plaque was installed by the New York Landmarks Preservation Foundation in 2002.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "54456346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54456346", "title": "Alexei Motlokhov", "text": "Alexei Motlokhov\n\nAlexei Motlokhov (born 1981/82) is a London-based Russian hedge fund manager.\n\nAlexei Motlokhov is the son of Vladimir Motlokhov, who works for the Russian fertilizer giant, PhosAgro (controlled by Andrey Guryev), and was vice-governor of the Murmansk region from 2000 to 2008, where PhosAgro mines its phosphate. Motlokhov received a PhD in economics in 2006.\n\nMotlokhov runs the hedge fund Kola Capital with Mike Hollings and Ken Ginsburg, and they operate the Cayman Islands-domiciled Kola Global Opportunities Fund, amongst others.\n\nMotlokhov is married to Yulia Guryeva-Motlokhov, the daughter of Russian billionaire Andrey Guryev. They have twin sons and live next door to Guryev, who owns Witanhurst in Highgate, London's second largest house after Buckingham Palace.\n\nSeveral local residents wrote to Camden Council about a 57-metre long adventure playground that they were planning to build in their back garden, complaining that \"The plans are on a commercial scale and it looks like this will be more like a theme park than a playground.\"\n"}
{"id": "34244936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34244936", "title": "Alfredo Woodward Téllez", "text": "Alfredo Woodward Téllez\n\nAlfredo Woodward Téllez (1905–1988) was a Mexican businessman, politician and member of the Institutional Revolutionary Party. He was born in Oaxaca City, Oaxaca, on December 9, 1905 and died of old age on April 25, 1988. He was the son of American William John Woodward and Josefina Tellez Gil.\n\nWoodward arrived in Manzanillo, Colima, as manager of the customs agency, Alberto P. Rojas and sons, a powerful business that was based at the corner of Calle Donceles in Mexico City and had branches in Veracruz, Tamaulipas, Chihuahua, Chiapas, Oaxaca, Sinaloa, Sonora and Texas. He held many other types of employment before becoming an entrepreneur, such as police, driver, desk clerk, carrier and film actor.\n\nWoodward came to possess, in addition, a whole fishing fleet. During World War II he was devoted to fishing for shark and hammerhead, exporting large quantities of shark parts to be used for the manufacture of vitamin A. Together with Guillermo Adachi and Luis Garcia Castillo, he was one of the most active promoters of the International Tournament of Sailfishing in Manzanillo, participating in that sport for many years. \n\nWoodward was local deputy to the Colima Congress for the XXXVII Legislature (1954 - 1955). He was mayor of the city of Manzanillo in Colima state during the period 1951 to 1954. He was Communicator of the Beacons of the Navy Department in the Mexican Pacific.\n\nWoodward 's name is linked to the work and policies of the Manzanillo port, either through the customs business of his son Guillermo Woodward Rojas or through Alfredo Woodward Rojas, former candidate for president and municipal councilor for the Democratic Revolutionary Party.\n"}
{"id": "4627439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627439", "title": "Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research", "text": "Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research\n\nThe Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER) is one of six main centers for the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which is a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The current Director of CBER is Dr. Karen Midthun, M.D. CBER is responsible for assuring the safety, purity, potency, and effectiveness of biologics and related products (such as vaccines, live biotherapeutics (probiotics), blood products, and cell, tissue, and gene therapies). Not all biologics are regulated by CBER. Monoclonal antibodies and other therapeutic proteins are regulated by the FDA Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER).\n\n\nAs of July 2006 CBER's authority resides in sections 351 and 361 of the Public Health Service Act and in various sections of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act.\n\nSection 351 of the Public Health Service Act requires licensure of biological products that travel in interstate commerce in the United States. CBER may deny licensure or suspend or cancel a current license if a manufacturer does not comply with requirements. Unlicensed blood products used within the boundaries of a state are not unusual, and these products are subject to general regulations from other FDA legal authorities.\n\nSection 361 of the same act allows the Surgeon General to make and enforce regulations to control the interstate spread of communicable disease. This broad authority has been delegated to the FDA through a Memorandum of Understanding. Many of the products overseen by CBER are also considered drugs, and are subject to the same rules and regulations as any other drug product from the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.\n\nFrom these legal authorities, CBER publishes regulations which are included in the first chapter Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Most of the regulations specific to CBER are found from 21CFR600-680. 21CFR1271 contains the rules for HCT/Ps. For products which are also drugs, such as blood for transfusion, rules in 21CFR200 and following apply. Other general rules, such as the regulations for clinical trials involving human subjects in 21CFR50, may also apply.\n\nIn addition to these laws and guidances, CBER also publishes guidance documents. These are not requirements, but are generally followed by industry. Licensed manufacturers are expected to adopt either the guidance or an equivalent process. In some cases, the guidance documents have the force of regulation because they are written to clarify existing rules.\n\nAs of 2003, the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System was based on a data integration platform from Informatica. The FDA uses this software to analyze data on adverse reactions to vaccines and other biologicals in order to improve regulation.\n\nCBER's Vaccines and Related Biological Products Advisory Committee meets annually for a discussion and vote concerning the next year's influenza vaccine virus selection.\n\nAccording to numbers from the FDA, in 2001 the CBER reviewed 16 Biologics License Applications (BLAs) with a median review time of 13.8 months and a median approval time of 20.3 months.\n\nCBER's history began with a horse named Jim, a vaccine-contamination scandal that prompted the Biologics Control Act of 1902. Originally, CBER was part of what became the National Institutes of Health, rather than the FDA. Its mission included a mandate to foster the development of new vaccines. \n\nThe Bureau was transferred from the NIH to the FDA in 1972, where it was renamed Bureau of Biologics and focused on vaccines, serums for allergy shots, and blood products. \n\nTen years later, with the beginning of the biotechnology revolution, the line between a drug and a biologic, or a device and a biologic, became blurred. It was merged with the FDA's Bureau of Drugs to form the \"Center for Drugs and Biologics\" during an agency-wide reorganization under Commissioner Arthur Hayes. This reorganization similarly merged the bureaus responsible for medical devices and radiation control into the Center for Devices and Radiological Health.\n\nIn 1987, under Commissioner Frank Young, CBER and the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) were split into their present form. The two groups were charged with enforcing different laws and had significantly different philosophical and cultural differences. CBER took a more collaborative, public-health driven approach to working with the industry, and in the 1980s was quicker to approve products than their drugs counterparts. The growing crisis around HIV testing and treatment, and an inter-agency dispute between officials from the former Bureau of Drugs and officials from the former Bureau of Biologics over whether to approve Genentech's Activase (tissue plasminogen activator), led to the split. CBER was declared the primary agency for HIV/AIDS-related products, since HIV had been spread significantly by blood transfusion and related products.\n\nIn 1997, Congress re-authorized user fees, and research previously done at taxpayer expense began to be charged to manufacturers. CBER's research work has diminished dramatically since then.\n\nIn 2002, the FDA transferred a number of biologically produced therapeutics to CDER. CBER regulates a number of biologics-related products, including blood tests, computer software, and devices related to blood transfusion, which industry representatives would like to see handled by the much brisker Center for Devices and Radiological Health.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2993050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2993050", "title": "Central securities depository", "text": "Central securities depository\n\nA central securities depository (CSD) is a specialist financial organization holding securities such as shares either in certificated or uncertificated (dematerialized) form so that ownership can be easily transferred through a book entry rather than the transfer of physical certificates. This allows brokers and financial companies to hold their securities at one location where they can be available for clearing and settlement. This is usually done electronically, making it much faster and easier than was traditionally the case where physical certificates had to be exchanged after a trade had been completed.\n\nIn some cases these organizations also carry out centralized comparison, and transaction processing such as clearing and settlement of securities.\n\nA CSD can be national or international in nature, and may be for a specific type of security, such as government bonds.\n\nMany countries have one domestic CSD that was traditionally associated with the national stock exchange. These organizations are typically heavily regulated by the government and may or may not be separate from the exchanges where trading in securities occurs.\n\nAn international CSD is a central securities depository that settles trades in international securities such as eurobonds although many also settle trades in various domestic securities, usually through direct or indirect (through local agents) links to local CSDs. Examples of international CSDs include Clearstream (previously Cedel), Euroclear and SIX SIS. While viewed as a national CSD rather than an ICSD, the US Depository Trust Company (DTC) does hold over $2 trillion in non-US securities and in American depositary receipts from over 100 nations.\n\n\nHowever, there are risks and responsibilities regarding these services that must be taken into consideration in analyzing and evaluating each market on a case-by-case basis.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49634955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49634955", "title": "Charles W.L. Hill", "text": "Charles W.L. Hill\n\nCharles W. L. Hill is a British-born academic. As of 2016, he is the Hughes M. and Katherine G. Blake Endowed Professor in Business Administration and Professor of Management and Organization at the University of Washington's Foster School of Business in Seattle, where he has been teaching since 1988. Previously he taught at Michigan State University (1986–88), and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (now part of the University of Manchester; 1983–86). He was also a visiting professor at Texas A&M University (1985–86). His books include \"Strategic Management: An Integrated Approach\" (2004), co-authored with G. R. Jones, and \"International Business: Competing in the Global Market Place\" (2005).\n"}
{"id": "384969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384969", "title": "Chase Bank", "text": "Chase Bank\n\nJ.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., doing business as Chase Bank, is a national bank headquartered in Manhattan, New York City, that constitutes the consumer and commercial banking subsidiary of the U.S. multinational banking and financial services holding company, JPMorgan Chase & Co. The bank was known as Chase Manhattan Bank until it merged with J.P. Morgan & Co. in 2000. Chase Manhattan Bank was formed by the merger of the Chase National Bank and The Manhattan Company in 1955. The bank has been headquartered in Columbus, Ohio since its merger with Bank One Corporation in 2004. The bank acquired the deposits and most assets of The Washington Mutual.\n\nChase offers more than 5,100 branches and 16,000 ATMs nationwide. JPMorgan Chase & Co. has 250,355 employees (as of 2016) and operates in more than 100 countries. JPMorgan Chase & Co. had their assets of $2.49 trillion in 2016.\n\nJPMorgan Chase, through its Chase subsidiary, is one of the Big Four banks of the United States.\n\n From September 1, 1799, to 1955, it was called The Bank of The Manhattan Company (New York); after a 1955 merger with the Chase National Bank (which existed separately from 1877 to 1954) it was called The Chase Manhattan Bank.\n\nChase traces its history back to the founding of The Manhattan Company by Aaron Burr on September 1, 1799, in a house at 40 Wall Street:\n\nIn 2006, the modern-day Chase bought the retail banking division of the Bank of New York, which then only months later merged with Pittsburgh-based Mellon Financial to form the present-day BNY Mellon.\n\nChase National Bank was formed in 1877 by John Thompson. It was named after former United States Treasury Secretary and Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase, although Chase did not have a connection with the bank.\n\nThe Chase National Bank acquired a number of smaller banks in the 1920s, through its Chase Securities Corporation. In 1926, for instance, it acquired Mechanics and Metals National Bank. \n\nHowever, its most significant acquisition was the Equitable Trust Company of New York in 1930, the largest stockholder of which was John D. Rockefeller, Jr. This made Chase the largest bank in America and indeed, in the world.\n\nChase was primarily a wholesale bank, dealing with other prominent financial institutions and major corporate clients, such as General Electric, which had, through its RCA subsidiary, leased prominent space and become a crucial first tenant of Rockefeller Center, rescuing that major project in 1930. The bank is also closely associated with and has financed the oil industry, having longstanding connections with its board of directors to the successor companies of Standard Oil, especially ExxonMobil, which are also Rockefeller holdings.\n\nIn 1955, Chase National Bank and The Manhattan Company merged to create The Chase Manhattan Bank. As Chase was a much larger bank, it was first intended that Chase acquire the \"Bank of Manhattan\", as it was nicknamed, but it transpired that Burr's original charter for the Manhattan Company had not only included the clause allowing it to start a bank with surplus funds, but another requiring unanimous consent of shareholders for the bank to be taken over. The deal was therefore structured as an acquisition by the Bank of the Manhattan Company of Chase National, with John J. McCloy becoming chairman of the merged entity. This avoided the need for unanimous consent by shareholders.\n\nFor Chase Manhattan Bank's new logo, Chermayeff & Geismar designed a stylized octagon in 1961, which remains part of the bank's logo today. The Chase logo is a stylized representation of the primitive water pipes laid by the Manhattan Company, which were made by nailing together wooden planks. The bank included an asset management business called the Chase Investors Management Corporation.\n\nUnder McCloy's successor, George Champion, the bank relinquished its antiquated 1799 state charter for a modern one. In 1969, under the leadership of David Rockefeller, the bank became part of a bank holding company, the Chase Manhattan Corporation.\n\nIn July 1996, Chemical Bank of New York purchased Chase Manhattan Bank. Chemical's previous acquisitions included Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, in 1991, and Texas Commerce Bank, in 1987. Although Chemical was the nominal survivor, the merged company retained the Chase name since it was better known (particularly outside the United States).\n\nIn December 2000, the combined Chase Manhattan completed the acquisition of J.P. Morgan & Co. in one of the largest banking mergers to date. The combined company was renamed JPMorgan Chase. In 2004, the bank acquired Bank One, making Chase the largest credit card issuer in the United States. JPMorgan Chase added Bear Stearns & Co. and Washington Mutual to its acquisitions in 2008 and 2009 respectively. After closing nearly 400 overlapping branches of the combined company, less than 10% of its total, Chase will have approximately 5,410 branches in 23 states as of the closing date of the acquisition. According to data from SNL Financial (data as of June 30, 2008), this places Chase third behind Wells Fargo and Bank of America in terms of total U.S. retail bank branches. In October 2010, Chase was named in two lawsuits alleging manipulation of the silver market. The suits allege that by managing giant positions in silver futures and options, the banks influenced the prices of silver on the New York Stock Exchange's Comex Exchange since early 2008.\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors to 1995 (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nIn 2004, JPMorgan Chase merged with Chicago-based Bank One Corp., bringing on board its current chairman and CEO Jamie Dimon as president and COO and designating him as CEO William B. Harrison, Jr.'s successor. Dimon's pay was pegged at 90% of Harrison's. Dimon quickly made his influence felt by embarking on a cost-cutting strategy and replaced former JPMorgan Chase executives in key positions with Bank One executives—many of whom were with Dimon at Citigroup. Dimon became CEO in January 2006 and Chairman in December 2006 after Harrison's resignation.\n\nBank One Corporation was formed upon the 1998 merger between Banc One of Columbus, Ohio and First Chicago NBD. These two large banking companies were themselves created through the merger of many banks. JPMorgan Chase completed the acquisition of Bank One in Q3 2004. The merger between Bank One and JPMorgan Chase meant that corporate headquarters were now in New York City while the retail bank operations of Chase were consolidated in New York.\n\nThe following is an illustration of Bank One's major mergers and acquisitions and historical predecessors (this is not a comprehensive list):\n\nOn September 25, 2008, JPMorgan Chase bought most banking operations of Washington Mutual from the receivership of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). That night, the Office of Thrift Supervision, in what was by far the largest bank failure in American history, seized Washington Mutual Bank and placed it into receivership. The FDIC sold the bank's assets, secured debt obligations and deposits to JPMorgan Chase Bank, NA for $1.888 billion, which re-opened the bank the following day. As a result of the takeover, Washington Mutual shareholders lost all their equity. Through the acquisition, JPMorgan became owner of the former accounts of Providian Financial, a credit card issuer WaMu acquired in 2005. The company completed the rebranding of Washington Mutual branches to Chase in late 2009.\n\nIn the first-quarter of 2006, Chase purchased Collegiate Funding Services, a portfolio company of private equity firm Lightyear Capital, for $663 million. CFS was used as the foundation for the Chase Student Loans, previously known as Chase Education Finance.\n\nIn April of that same year (2006), Chase acquired the Bank of New York Co.'s retail and small business banking network. This gave Chase access to 338 additional branches and 700,000 new customers in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Indiana.\n\nA press release from the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) in 2004 announced that many of the new Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) files had become declassified. This declassification enabled the discovery that before and during the early years of World War II, the German government sold a special kind of Reichsmark, known as Rückwanderer [returnee] Marks, to American citizens of German descent. Chase National Bank, along with other businesses, were involved in these transactions. Through Chase, this allowed Nazi sympathizers to purchase Marks with dollars at a discounted rate. Specifically, \"The financial houses understood that the German government paid the commissions (to its agents, including Chase) through the sale of discounted, blocked Marks that came mainly from Jews who had fled Germany.\" In other words, Nazi Germany was able to offer these Marks below face-value because they had been stolen from emigrés fleeing the Nazi regime. Between 1936 and 1941, the Nazis amassed over $20 million, and the businesses enabling these transactions earned $1.2 million in commissions. Of these commissions, over $500,000 went to Chase National Bank and its subagents.\n\nThese facts were discovered when the FBI began its investigation in October 1940. The purpose of the investigation was to follow German-Americans who had bought the Marks. However, Chase National Bank's executives were never federally prosecuted because Chase's lead attorney threatened to reveal FBI, Army, and Navy \"sources and methods\" in court (needs reference). Publicly naming the sources and methods could have posed security risks and threatened future intelligence gathering. To avoid such revelations, the executives' violations of the Johnson Act, the Espionage Act, and the Foreign Agents Registration Act were never prosecuted.\n\nBesides the controversial Rückwanderer Mark Scheme, NARA records also revealed another controversy during the occupation of France by the Nazis. From the late 1930s until June 14, 1941, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR) issued an Executive Order freezing German assets, Chase National Bank worked with the Nazi government. The order blocking any access to French accounts in the U.S. by anyone, but especially by the Nazis was issued by Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau Jr., with the approval of FDR. Within hours of the order, Chase unblocked the accounts and the funds were transferred through South America to Nazi Germany.\n\nUS Treasury officials wanted an investigation of French subsidiaries of American banks, such as Chase Bank, J.P. Morgan & Co, National City Corporation, Guaranty Bank, Bankers Trust, and American Express. Of these banks, only Chase and Morgan remained open in France during the Nazi occupation. The Chase branch chief in Paris, France, Carlos Niedermann, told his supervisor in New York that there had been an \"expansion of deposits\". Also, Niedermann was, \"very vigorous in enforcing restrictions against Jewish property, even going so far as to refuse to release funds belonging to Jews in anticipation that a decree with retroactive provisions prohibiting such release might be published in the near future by the occupying Nazi authorities\".\n\nIn 1998, Chase general counsel William McDavid, said that Chase did not have control over Niedermann. Whether that claim was true or not, Chase Manhattan Bank acknowledged seizing about 100 accounts during the Vichy regime. Kenneth McCallion, an attorney, led a lawsuit against Barclays Bank for the illegal seizure of assets during WWII and has since turned his attention toward Chase. The World Jewish Congress (WJC), entered into discussions with Chase and a spokesperson for the WJC said, \"Nobody at Chase today is guilty. They were not involved in whatever happened, but they do accept that they have an institutional responsibility.\" A Chase spokesman said, \"This is a moral issue that we take very seriously.\" Chase general counsel McDavid added, \"that Chase intends to compensate Jewish account holders whose assets were illegally plundered\". In 1999, the French government formed a commission to report findings to Prime Minister Lionel Jospin. Claire Andrieu, a commission member and history professor at the Sorbonne, said that under the Vichy regime, French banks received visits from Nazi officials but U.S. banks did not. At that time, they did not have to report Jewish accounts, but they did just as the French banks did. She goes on to say that an American ambassador protected the U.S. subsidiaries.\n\nJPMorgan Chase has paid $16 billion in fines, settlements and other litigation expenses from 2011 to 2013. Of the $16 billion JPMorgan Chase has paid, about $8.5 billion were for fines and settlements resulting from illegal actions taken by bank executives, according to Richard Eskow at the Campaign for America's Future, who cited a new report from Joshua Rosner of Graham Fisher & Co.\n\nThe $16 billion total does not include a recent settlement that calls for JPMorgan Chase to pay $100 million to waive $417 million in claims it had made against clients of the firm MF Global.\n\nThe U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control found that JPMorgan had illegally aided dictatorships in Cuba, Sudan, Liberia and Iran, including transferring 32,000 ounces of gold bullion (valued at approximately $20,560,000) to the benefit of a bank in Iran. JPMorgan did not voluntarily self-disclose the Iranian matter to OFAC.\n\nAmong its other transgressions, JPMorgan has been found to have:\n\nDuring 2013 and 2014, Chase and other banks received media attention for the practice of canceling the personal and business accounts of hundreds of legal sex workers, citing in some instances the \"morality clause\" of their account agreement. Later it was discovered that this practice included mortgage accounts and business loans. Chase canceled the mortgage refinancing process for one individual, that the bank had initiated, whose production company made soft core films like those broadcast on Cinemax. This resulted in a lawsuit which cited evasive dealings and misleading statements by several Chase executives including Securities Vice President Adam Gelcich, Legal Fair Lending Department Vice President Deb Vincent, and an unnamed executive director and assistant general counsel.\n\nIn addition to closing accounts for sex workers, the bank has also been using its \"morality clause\" to disassociate from other types of businesses. Some of these other businesses include medical marijuana dispensaries and any that are \"gun related\". Another was a woman-owned condom manufacturing company called Lovability Condoms. Company founder Tiffany Gaines was rejected by Chase Paymentech services \"as processing sales for adult-oriented products is a prohibited vertical\" and was told that it was a \"reputational risk\" to process payment for condoms. Gaines then started a petition to ask Chase to review and change its policy of classifying condoms as an \"adult oriented product\". The bank later reversed its decision and invited Gaines to submit an application citing that was already doing business with a \"wide variety of merchants, including grocers and drug stores, that sell similar products\".\n\nFinancial documents from Energy Transfer Partners, the pipeline builder for the Dakota Access Pipeline, lists a number of large banking institutions that have provided credit for the project, including JP Morgan Chase. Because of these financial ties, Chase and other banks have been a target of the Dakota Access Pipeline protests during 2016 and 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "870767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=870767", "title": "Company town", "text": "Company town\n\nA company town is a place where practically all stores and housing are owned by the one company that is also the main employer. Company towns are often planned with a suite of amenities such as stores, churches, schools, markets and recreation facilities. They are usually bigger than a model village (\"model\" in the sense of an ideal to be emulated).\n\nThe best examples of company towns have had high ideals; but many have been regarded as controlling or exploitative. Others developed more or less in unplanned fashion, such as Summit Hill, Pennsylvania, United States, one of the oldest, which began as a LC&N Co. mining camp and mine site nine miles (14.5 km) from the nearest outside road.\n\nTraditional settings for company towns were where extractive industries — coal, metal mines, lumber — had established a monopoly franchise. Dam sites and war-industry camps founded other company towns. Since company stores often had a monopoly in company towns, it was possible to pay in scrip through a truck system. In the Soviet Union there were several cities of nuclear scientists (\"atomics\") known as atomgrad; particularly in Ukraine those were Pripyat, Varash, Yuzhnoukrainsk among others.\n\nTypically, a company town is isolated from neighbors and centered on a large production factory, such as a lumber or steel mill or an automobile plant; and the citizens of the town either work in the factory, work in one of the smaller businesses, or is a family member of someone who does. The company may also donate a church building to a local congregation, operate parks, host cultural events such as concerts, and so on. If the owning company cuts back or goes out of business, the economic effect on the company town is devastating, as people move to jobs elsewhere.\n\nCompany towns often become regular public cities and towns as they grow and attract other settlement, business enterprises, and public transportation and services infrastructure. Other times, a town may not officially be a company town, but it may be a town where the majority of citizens are employed by a single company, thus creating a similar situation to a company town (especially in regard to the town's economy). Further, such dependencies extend to neighborhoods and regions of larger cities. In each case, if the primary company falls on lean times, fails outright or the industry fades in importance (as with steam locomotive support rail yards and anthracite mining industries which depended on steam locomotives spurring demands) the communities contract and lose property value and then population as people move to find work elsewhere, and the youth of the community bears the children of their generation in another demographic region.\n\nPaternalism, a subtle form of social engineering, refers to the control of workers by their employers who sought to force middle-class ideals upon their working-class employees. Paternalism was considered by many nineteenth-century businessmen as a moral responsibility, or often a religious obligation, which would advance society whilst furthering their own business interests. Accordingly, the company town offered a unique opportunity to achieve such ends.\n\nAlthough many prominent examples of company towns portray their founders as \"capitalists with a conscience\", for example, George Cadbury's Bournville, if viewed cynically, the company town was often an economically viable ploy to attract and retain workers. Additionally, for-profit shops within company towns were usually owned by the company, which were unavoidable to its isolated workers, thus resulting in a monopoly for the owners.\n\nAlthough economically successful, company towns sometimes failed politically due to a lack of elected officials and municipally owned services. Accordingly, workers often had no say in local affairs and therefore, felt dictated to. Ultimately, this political climate caused resentment amongst workers and resulted in many residents eventually losing long-term affection for their towns; such was the case at Pullman.\n\nAlthough many small company towns existed in mining areas of Pennsylvania before the Civil War, one of the largest, and most substantial early company towns in the United States was Pullman, developed in the 1880s just outside the Chicago city limits. The town, entirely company-owned, provided housing, markets, a library, churches and entertainment for the 6,000 company employees and an equal number of dependents. Employees were required to live in Pullman, although cheaper rentals could be found in nearby communities.\n\nThe town operated successfully until the economic panic of 1893, when demand for the company's products declined, and employee wages had to be lowered accordingly. Despite this, the company refused to lower rents in the town or the price of goods at its shops, thus resulting in the Pullman Strike of 1894. A national commission formed to investigate the causes of the strikes found that Pullman's paternalism was partly to blame and labelled it \"un-American\". The report condemned Pullman for refusing to negotiate and for the economic hardships he created for workers in the town of Pullman. \"The aesthetic features are admired by visitors, but have little money value to employees, especially when they lack bread.\" The State of Illinois filed suit, and in 1898 the Supreme Court of Illinois forced the Pullman Company to divest ownership in the town, which was annexed to Chicago.\n\nHowever, government observers maintained that Pullman's principles were accurate, in that he provided his employees with a quality of life otherwise unattainable to them, but recognised that his excessive paternalism was inappropriate for a large-scale corporate economy and thus caused the town's downfall. Accordingly, government observers and social reformers alike saw the need for a balance between control and well-designed towns, concluding that a model company town would only succeed if independent professionals, acting as a buffer between employers and employees, took a role in conception, planning, and management of these towns.\n\nHistorian Linda Carlson argues that the managers of corporate towns in the early 20th century believed they could avoid the mistakes made by George Pullman in the 1880s. She says they:\n\nThus, the Pullman Strike did not kill the concept of a company town but rather initiated a new chapter in their existence. Over the next thirty years, the old model of paternalism was abandoned in favour of new professionally designed company towns with architects, landscape architects, and planners translating \"new concepts of industrial relations and social welfare into new physical forms\". This suited capitalists of the day who were obviously keen to avoid the experiences of Pullman. The first real example of this occurred at Indian Hill-North Village, Massachusetts, in 1915.\n\nBy the 1920s, the need for company towns had declined significantly due to increased national affluence. Despite income inequalities and a relatively low standard of living conditions amongst factory laborers, the prosperity of the 1920s saw workers’ material well-being improve significantly. A strong post-war American economy meant installment buying was accessible to low-wage earners who could now purchase previously unattainable goods like automobiles and radios. Moreover, workers were no longer dependent on employers for healthcare and education.\n\nBy the 1920s the widespread nature of the automobile meant workers no longer needed to live near their work places and now had access to more employment opportunities. A combination of the freedom that came with private transport and the mass communication of radio saw the isolation of company towns lessen and the social basis of the company town become less necessary.\n\nFurthermore, the accessibility of the working class to private transport also marked a step of equality as they had previously only been accessible to the wealthy. As access to surrounding municipalities increased, residents of company towns gained access to an increasing amount of government-funded public resources such as schools, libraries, and parks. Accordingly, there was no longer a need for the amenities of company towns which, prior to welfare capitalism, had previously been unattainable to the working class.\n\nThis new found freedom saw a change in the mindset of workers who began to look on welfare capitalism as demeaning rather than an incentive. Accordingly, many employees began to request additional pay in lieu of welfare programs. This was well received by some employers as the idea of ‘laissez-faire’ individualism, which promoted entrepreneurial virtues of hard-work being rewarded rather than direct charity, began to shape new-age paternalism.\n\nModernization and the increase in material well-being had also lessened the perceived need for paternalism and moral reform. Consequently, the economic downturn of the early 1930s saw some businesses do away with employee welfare schemes to reduce costs. However, the Roosevelt Administration’s New Deal dealt the final blow to end American company towns by raising minimum wages, encouraging industrial self-governance, and pushing for the owners of company towns to “consider the question of plans for eventual employee ownership of homes”. To a lesser extent the New Deal also reduced the need for employee housing by transforming housing finance to a lower-interest, lower-deposit system making home ownership more accessible to the working class.\n\nDuring the late nineteenth century, model company towns materialised, as enlightened industrialists recognised that many poor workers were living in appalling conditions. These industrialists wished to combat the unsanitary and congested conditions common to working class districts in order to create better living conditions for workers. Model company towns such as Port Sunlight (1888) and Bournville (1895) were influential in regards to their building and planning innovation. The ideas generated from these model towns are regarded as having a significant influence on the Garden City movement.\n\nThe model company town is concerned with creating a productive and prosperous company. Enlightened industrialists believed this could be achieved by providing a healthier residential environment for their employees. Planning a model company town involved the fusion of new notions of house design and layout. The paternalism of the enlightened industrialist was exhibited in his desire to provide an environment for his employees that was aesthetically appealing and which included well-designed residences, parks, schools, libraries and meeting halls. The industrialist also wished to contribute to his workers' well-being by providing social programs such as sporting events and functions. This, however, highlights the power and immense control possessed by the company owner, who could shape the lifestyle and activities of his employees to serve his own interests and those of the company.\n\nModel villages for agricultural workers were founded in the early 19th century in the United Kingdom. The creation of model company towns was particularly evident in Britain during the latter half of the nineteenth century with the creation of Saltaire (1851), Bournville, Port Sunlight, Creswell and New Earswick (1901) and coincided with the housing-reform movement, which emphasized the improvement of housing for the working class. These model towns contrasted with the overcrowded conditions in British working-class districts, which were often characterized by congested housing, unsanitary conditions, and poor provision of open space and facilities. Model company towns promoted the idea of orderly, planned town development as well as the notion of planning for the needs of the community in order to provide healthier living conditions.\n\nModel company towns around the mid-nineteenth century, such as Copley (1849), near Halifax, and Saltaire (1853), close to Bradford, were differentiated by improved dwellings for workers which contrasted with working-class housing in other industrial villages and cities. These model company towns prompted the creation of others, such as Port Sunlight, Bournville and Creswell, within an environment of reform.\n\nPort Sunlight (1888) in Cheshire was established by William Hesketh Lever (later Lord Leverhulme) of Lever Brothers – a soap and tallow manufacturer. The earlier layout of this model company town was planned to suit the undulating topography of the site. Port Sunlight catered for the Lever Brothers employees through the provision of improved housing (cottages of varying designs and materials) and gardens, as well as social and community facilities, including an auditorium, a school, tennis courts and bowling greens. Port Sunlight combined the use of formal and informal planning elements, such as straight streets close to the town centre and curved streets in the residential areas. This combination of the formal and informal represented a new feature of British town planning.\n\nBournville (1895), near Birmingham, was established by the Cadbury brothers, George and Richard. George and Richard Cadbury chose to transfer the Cadbury factory to this new site in order to provide their employees with improved living conditions and a country environment that they could enjoy – a far cry from the busy, smoky city centre of Birmingham. The firm provided education in the form of a compulsory academic course, and workers were given the opportunity to complete commercial or technical training. The Cadburys also encouraged their workers to get involved in the social life of Bournville through the provision of sports facilities and athletic and cultural clubs, as well as social events such as summer parties. George Cadbury, a Quaker, preached Christian values, such as respectability, thrift and sobriety, and sought to unify the Bournville community through rituals such as gift giving between employer and employee. The firm also established work councils, such as the Women's Works Council, and supported trades unions.\n\nBournville represented the union of industry and nature as the company town boasted the attractiveness of the countryside and low-density development defined by well-built and visually appealing dwellings. Unlike Port Sunlight, Bournville catered for a mixed community, where residences were not restricted to the workforce only. Bournville illustrated how, towards the end of the nineteenth century, low-density development was being punctuated along with the provision of open air, space and sunlight. Bournville's gardens, parks, tree-lined streets, sense of spaciousness and country setting enhanced its aesthetic appeal and demonstrated George Cadbury's endeavour to provide workers with a healthy, beautiful and well-ventilated environment.\n\nThe Bolsover Company developed two exemplary mining communities in Derbyshire during the late nineteenth century, Bolsover (1891) and Creswell (1896). The Bolsover Company aimed to provide improved living conditions for the miners and their families in these model industrial villages. The houses at Creswell were built in concentric circles, and within these circles was a large open parkland and a bandstand. Not only did the Bolsover Company aim to provide better housing, but they also wished to improve workers' moral fibre, believing that the provision of facilities and the promotion of workers' welfare would discourage drunkenness, gambling and bad language. The Bolsover Company provided facilities deemed beneficial for employees at both villages including clubhouses, bowling greens, cooperative society stores, cricket pitches and schools. During the early years of these model industrial villages, the Bolsover Company organized various events intended to enhance community life, such as flower shows, lectures, sporting events, concerts, teas and dances.\n\nCatalonia, a region located in North-Eastern Spain, has a high density of company towns, known locally as industrial colonies. They are especially concentrated in river basins along the Ter and Llobregat. In Berguedà, for example, within 20 km there are 14 colonies. The total number in Catalonia is around a hundred. These were small towns created around a factory, built in a rural area and, therefore, separate from any other population. They housed between 100 and 500 inhabitants, and in some cases around 1000 people.\n\nThese industrial colonies were a typical aspect of industrialization in Catalonia, specifically the second industrialization, which resulted in certain areas that were once purely rural becoming industrial. They were first created in the second half of the nineteenth century, especially from the 1870s onwards. The last colonies were created in the early years of the twentieth century. Thus, company towns in Catalonia have a history going back some 150 years, although in almost all cases the company that operated the colony has now shut down. The most common industry in these colonies was textiles. There are more than 75 textile colonies recorded; although there were also mining, metallurgy and agricultural colonies.\n\nMostly these colonies (particularly the textile related ones) were constructed close to a river. This was because they used hydraulic power (waterwheels) to run the factory. One reason for this was that Catalonia was poor in coal and importing it was expensive. In addition, the Catalan rivers (with little volume but a very steep sloping run) provided free and almost inexhaustible energy, that was lacking only in times of drought.\n\nThe industrial colonies system began to collapse in the 1960s. The colonies gradually emptied of people even before the definitive industrial crisis, which worsened in 1978. In the 1980s and 1990s almost all the factories in these industrial colonies closed. From that moment on, many colonies became towns that were now independent of the company, others were abandoned and remain without inhabitants. Other factories were leased to smaller industries or now lie empty.\n\nSome of the more interesting colonies include: Colònia Güell, in Santa Coloma de Cervelló, which contains several modernist buildings, such as the crypt church built by Antoni Gaudí; L'Ametlla de Merola, Puig-reig, where centenary traditional cultural activities are held, such as the representation of Els Pastorets; the three colonies of Castellbell i el Vilar: La Bauma, El Borràs, El Burés, with buildings of architectural interest; Cal Rosal, between Berga, Avià and Olvan, which, in 1858, was the first colony in the era of building large colonies in the Llobregat; Cal Vidal, Puig-reig, which houses the Museum of the Vidal Colony, an ideal visit for anyone wishing to learn what life was like in one of these industrial experiments.\n\nFordlândia was established by American industrialist Henry Ford in 1928 as a prefabricated industrial town in the Amazon rainforest of Brazil. Intended to be inhabited by 10 thousand people, it failed; and the city was abandoned in 1934.\n\nArvida, Quebec was developed in 1927 as a company town, to have a population of about 14,000 inhabitants, four Catholic parishes, and many other denominations, parishes and schools. It was known as \"the City Built in 135 Days\".\nBatawa was set up by the Bata Shoe Company as a planned community around a shoe factory. The factory opened in 1939 and closed in 2000.\nKuusankoski in Finland, formerly also known as \"the paper capital of Finland\", is a prime example of the decline many company towns have had to deal with when the company itself struggles. The town relied on three paper mills owned by Kymmene Corporation from the 1870s until 2005 when two mills, Voikkaa and Kuusaa, were shut down, leaving only the Kymi mill operating. An estimated 5% of the local population had been employed by the two closed mills and Kymmene's decision left the town in socioeconomic chaos. Kuusankoski's independent status ended in 2009 when the town was consolidated into the regional capital, Kouvola.\n\nThe French city of Le Creusot is a company town.\n\nThe German cities of Ludwigshafen, Wolfsburg and Leverkusen are company towns.\n\nThe Japanese city of Kitakyushu is a company town.\n\nThe border town Oranjemund, Namibia is a company town owned by Namibian DeBeers (Namdeb). The town has a diamond mine that was established over 25 years ago and is still ongoing till this day. Residents of Oranjemund either work in the mine or for the company in offices based in the town. To enter the town, all people above 18 need permission to pass its gates and need to provide a residential, and reason for visiting. Due to this the town has no homeless people at all and can regulate people coming in and out of the town. A municipality has recently been introduced in Oranjemund and will start to fully operate in late 2016 meaning residents will soon start paying for Water and Electricity which has been a benefit to them. The town is staged and is busy readying itself to becoming open to the public.\n\nWidzew, a suburb of Łódź in Poland, had been a textile company town before the Second World War.\n\nSvit in Slovakia was founded in 1934 by business industrialist Jan Antonín Baťa in accordance with his policy of establishing well-organized model communities for his workers and other employees. This town (like other Baťa´s company towns) was also an example of social engineering.\n\nThe mining city of Kiruna in Sweden was originally, around 1900, built by the mining company in an unpopulated area. Everything, including the church, was built by the company.\n\nThe city of Pripyat in Ukraine was established in 1970 solely to house the workers at the adjacent Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant and their families. It was one of several \"nuclear cities\" constructed by Soviet nuclear power firms throughout the latter half of the 20th century. All amenities, stores, and employment was conducted through each nuclear city's power plant administration.\n\nAt their peak there were more than 2,500 company towns, housing 3% of the US population. The companies that ran the towns were primarily labor companies such as coal, steel, lumber and various war industries. Most of the people living in these towns were immigrants new to the country. This could cause issues among the populace since the manager of the town would be in charge of establishing the town's religion.\n\nSegundo, Colorado, was a company town where the CF&I coal company housed its workers. It offered adequate housing and promoted upward mobility through its sponsorship of a YMCA Center, an elementary school, and some small businesses, as well as a company store. However, air pollution was a constant health threat, also the houses lacked indoor plumbing. As demand for metallurgical coke declined, the mine laid off workers, and Segundo's population declined. After a major fire in 1929, CF&I left town, and Segundo became practically a ghost town.\n\nOne famous company town was McDonald, Ohio, which was created by the Carnegie Steel Company to house and serve the needs of its employees in the Youngstown, Ohio, area.\n\nMarktown, Clayton Mark's planned worker community, was an example in northwest Indiana.\n\nIn the present-day United States, it is relatively rare for any place in which a single company owns all the property to be granted status as an incorporated municipality. Rather, companies will normally prefer their wholly owned communities to remain unincorporated, as this permits administration of the community to be carried out by appointed company officers rather than elected officials. However, there are incorporated municipalities that are heavily dependent upon a single industry or organization and may be loosely considered a \"company town\", even though the company does not technically own the town.\n\nScotia, California is a company town, previously owned by The Pacific Lumber Company, and is being dismantled through PLC's bankruptcy process. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25225295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25225295", "title": "Consumer neuroscience", "text": "Consumer neuroscience\n\nConsumer neuroscience is the combination of consumer research with modern neuroscience. The goal of the field is to find neural explanations for consumer behaviors in individuals both with or without disease.\n\nConsumer research has existed for more than a century and has been well established as a combination of sociology, psychology, and anthropology, and popular topics in the field revolve around consumer decision-making, advertising, and branding. For decades, however, consumer researchers had never been able to directly record the internal mental processes that govern consumer behavior; they always were limited to designing experiments in which they alter the external conditions in order to view the ways in which changing variables may affect consumer behavior (examples include changing the packaging or changing a subject’s mood). With the integration of neuroscience with consumer research, it is possible to go directly into the brain to discover the neural explanations for consumer behavior. The ability to record brain activity with electrodes and advances in neural imaging technology make it possible to determine specific regions of the brain that are responsible for critical behaviors involved in consumption.\n\nConsumer neuroscience is similar to neuroeconomics and neuromarketing, but subtle, yet distinct differences exist between them. Neuroeconomics is more of an academic field while neuromarketing and consumer neuroscience are more of an applied science. Neuromarketing focuses on the study of various marketing techniques and attempts to integrate neuroscience knowledge to help improve the efficiency and effectiveness of said marketing strategies. Consumer neuroscience is unique among the three because the main focus is on the consumer and how various factors affect individual preferences and purchasing behavior.\n\nStudies of emotion are crucial to advertising research as it has been shown that emotion plays a significant role in ad memorization. Classically in advertising research, the theory has been that emotion and ratio are represented in different regions of the brain, but neuroscience may be able to disprove this theory by showing that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and the striatum play a role in bilateral emotion processing.\n\nThe attractiveness of the advertisements correlates with specific changes in brain activity in various brain regions including the medial prefrontal cortex, posterior cingulate, nucleus accumbens and higher-order visual cortices. This may represent an interaction between the perceived attractiveness of the ad by the consumer and the emotions expressed by the people pictured in the advertisement. It has been suggested that ads that use people with positive emotions are perceived as attractive while ads using exclusively text or depicting people with neutral expressions may generally be viewed as unattractive. Unattractive ads activate the anterior insula, which plays a role in the processing of negative emotions. Both attractive and unattractive ads have been shown to be more memorable than ads described as ambiguously attractive, but more research is needed to determine how this translates to the overall brand perception in the eyes of the consumer and how this may impact future purchasing behavior.\n\nThere are various studies that have been conducted to research the question of how consumers process and store the information presented in advertisements. Television commercials with scene durations lasting longer than 1.5 seconds have been shown to be more memorable one week later than scenes that last less than 1.5 seconds, and scenes that produce the quickest electrical response in the left frontal hemisphere have been shown to be more memorable as well. It has been suggested that the transfer of visual advertising inputs from short term memory to long term memory may take place in the left hemisphere, and highly memorable ads can be created by producing the fastest responses in the left hemisphere. However, these theories have been renounced by some who believe that the research findings may be attributed to extraneous and unmeasured factors. There is also evidence to suggest that a front to back difference in processing speed may be more influential on ad memorization than left to right differences.\n\nResearch has shown that there are certain periods of commercials that are far more significant for the consumer in terms of establishing advertising effects. These short segments are referred to as “branding moments” and are thought to be the most engaging parts of the commercial. These moments can be identified using an EEG and analyzing alpha waves (8–13 Hz), beta waves (13–30 Hz) and theta waves (4–7 Hz). These results may suggest that the strength of a commercial with regard to its effect on the consumer can be evaluated by the strength of its unique branding moments.\n\nAffective advertising (using comedy, drama, suspense, etc.) activates the amygdala, the orbitofrontal cortices, and the brainstem whereas cognitive advertising (strict facts) mainly activates the posterior parietal cortex and the superior prefrontal cortices. Ambler and Burne in 1999 created the Memory-Affect-Cognition (MAC) theory to explain the processes involved in decision making. According to the theory, the majority of decisions are habitual and do not require affect or cognition; they require memory only. Most of the remaining decisions only require memory and affect; they do not require cognition. The main use for cognition is in the form of rationalization following a particular action, however, there are occasional instances in which memory, affect and cognition are all used in conjunction, such as during a debate about a particular choice. The above findings suggest a correlation exists between ad memorization and the degree of affective content within the advertisement, but it is still unclear how this translates to brand memory.\n\nMuch of consumer research is devoted to studying the effect of brand associations on consumer preferences and how they manifest into brand memories. Brand memories can be defined as “everything that exists in the minds of customers with respect to a brand (e.g. thoughts, feelings, experiences, images, perceptions, beliefs and attitudes)”. Several studies have indicated there is not a designated area of the brain devoted to brand recognition. Studies have shown that different areas of the brain are activated when exposed to a brand as opposed to a person, and decisions regarding the evaluation of brands in different product categories activate the area of the brain responsible for semantic object processing rather than areas involved with the judgment of people. These two findings suggest that brands are not processed by the brain in the same manner as human personalities, indicating that personality theory cannot be used to explain brand preferences.\n\nIn a study of fMRI scans of loyal and less loyal customers it was found that in the case of loyal customers the presence of a particular brand serves as a reward during choice tasks, but less loyal customers do not exhibit the same reward pathway. It was also found that loyal customers had greater activation in the brain areas concerned with emotion and memory retrieval suggesting that loyal customers develop an affective bond with a particular brand, which serves as the primary motivation for repeat purchases.\n\nBrand loyalty has been shown to be the result of changes in neural activity in the striatum, which is part of the human action reward system. In order to become brand loyal the brain must make a decision of brand A over brand B, a process which relies on the brain to make predictions based upon expected reward and then evaluate the results to learn loyalty. The brain is required to remember both positive and negative outcomes of previous brand choices in order to accurately be able to make predictions regarding the expected outcome of future brand decisions. For example, a helpful salesman or a discount in price may serve as a reward to encourage future customer loyalty. It is thought that the amygdala and striatum are the two most prominent structures for predicting the outcomes of decisions, and that the brain learns to better predict in part by establishing a larger neural network in these structures.\n\nIn an attempt to model how the brain learns, a temporal difference learning algorithm has been developed which takes into account expected reward, stimuli presence, reward evaluation, temporal error, and individual differences. As yet this is a theoretical equation, but it may be solved in the near future.\n\nBrands serve to connect consumers to the products they are purchasing either by establishing an emotional connection or by creating a particular image. It has been shown that when consumers are forced to choose an item from a group in which a familiar brand is present the choice is much easier than when consumers are forced to choose from a group of entirely unfamiliar brands. One MRI study found that there was significantly increased activation in the brain reward centers including the orbitofrontal cortex, the ventral striatum and the anterior cingulate when consumers were looking at sports cars as compared to sedans (presumably because the status symbol associated with sports cars is rewarding in some way). Many corporations have conducted similar MRI studies to investigate the effect of their brand on consumers including Delta Air Lines, General Motors, Home Depot, Hallmark, and Motorola but the results have not been made public.\n\nA study by McClure et al. investigated the difference in branding between Coca-Cola and Pepsi. The study found that when the two drinks were tasted blind there was no difference in consumer preference between the brands. Both drinks produced equal activation in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which is thought to be activated because the taste is rewarding. When the subjects were informed of the brand names the consumers preferred Coke, and only Coke activated the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, suggesting that drinking the Coke brand is rewarding beyond simply the taste itself. More subjects preferred Coke when they knew it was Coke than when the taste testing was anonymous, which demonstrates the power of branding to influence consumer behavior. There was also significant activation in the hippocampus and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex when subjects knew they were drinking Coke. These brain structures are known to play a role in memory and recollection, which indicates they are helping the subjects to connect their present drinking experience to previous brand associations. The study proposes that there are two separate processes contributing to consumer decision making: the ventromedial prefrontal cortex responds to sensory inputs and the hippocampus and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex recall previous associations to cultural information. According to the results of this study, the Coke brand has much more firmly established itself as a rewarding experience.\n\nResearch in consumer buying has focused on the identification of processes that contribute to an individual making a purchase. The brain does not contain a “buy button”, but rather recruits several processes during choice tasks, and studies report that the prefrontal cortex is heavily involved in limiting the emotions expressed during impulse buying. Reducing the effect of these executive control areas of the brain may contribute to changes in purchasing behavior, for example music may lead to reduced cognitive control which is why it has been shown to correlate with a higher percentage of unplanned purchases.\n\nSeveral MEG studies have been conducted to measure the neuronal correlates associated with decision making in order to investigate the underlying processes governing purchasing. The studies suggest that decisions involved with purchasing can be seen as occurring in two halves. The first half is concerned with memory recall and problem identification and recognition. The second half is associated with the purchasing decision itself; familiar brands produce different brain patterns than do nonfamiliar brands. The right parietal cortex is activated when consumers choose a familiar brand, which indicates the choice is at least partially intentional and behavior is influenced by prior experiences.\n\nWhen consumers select less well known products or products that are completely unfamiliar, several areas of the brain are activated to help with the decision making process that are not activated when consumers select more well known products. There is an increased synchronization between the right dorsolateral cortices (associated with consideration of multiple sources of information), there is increased activity in the right orbitofrontal cortex (associated with evaluation of rewards) and there is increased activity in the left inferior frontal cortex (associated with silent vocalization). Activation in these brain structures indicates that the decision between less well known products is difficult in some way. MEG findings also suggest that even repetitive daily shopping that is apparently simple actually relies on very complex neural mechanisms.\n\nIt has been shown that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex is heavily involved in decisions regarding brand-related preferences and individuals with damage to this region of the brain do not demonstrate normal brand-preference behavior. People with damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex have also been found to be more easily influenced by misleading advertisement.\n\nIt is thought that the amygdala and striatum are the two most prominent structures for predicting the outcomes of decisions, and that the brain learns to better make predictions in part by establishing a larger neural network in these structures.\n\nThe hippocampus and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex help consumers recall previous associations with cultural information and cultural expectations. These associations with prior information serve to modify consumer behavior and influence purchasing decisions.\n\nConsumer research provides a real-world application for neuroscience studies. Consumer studies help neuroscience to learn more about how healthy and unhealthy brain functions differ, which may assist in discovering the neural source of consumption-related dysfunctions and treat a variety of addictions. Additionally, studies are currently underway to investigate the neural mechanism of “anchoring”, which has been thought to contribute to obesity because people are more influenced by the behaviors of their peers than an internal standard. Discovering a neural source of anchoring may be the key to preventing behaviors that typically lead to obesity.\n\n"}
{"id": "2714483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2714483", "title": "Corporate behaviour", "text": "Corporate behaviour\n\nCorporate behaviour is the actions of a company or group who are acting as a single body. It defines the company's ethical strategies and describes the image of the company.\n\nNot only does corporate behaviour play various roles within different areas of a business, it also enables businesses to overcome any problems they may face. For example, due to an increase in globalisation, language barriers are likely to increase for organisations creating major problems as day-to-day business may be disrupted. Corporate behaviour enables managers to overcome this problem by improving flexibility. Also, many businesses are struggling to remain competitive in terms of quality and productivity due to intense competition within markets. However, corporate behaviour is able to fix this issue by allowing managers to empower their employees as they are the ones who are able to make a change. \nPositive corporate behaviour can result in employees feeling happy and content at work providing their best outcome. This is beneficial for management as it could lead to effective teams being created thus resulting in innovative ideas which is beneficial for the business. It also helps to decrease labour turnover enabling the organisation to retain its most valuable employees.\n\nCorporate behaviour is important in strengthening relationships within organisations between individuals, teams, and in the organisation as a whole. It is important as it reflects the values of the business and the extent to which it is ethical. Corporate behavior refers to the company values that defines it and makes it different and better than other companies. Portraying positive corporate behavior within a company facilitates strong brand image creation; consequently branding then strengthens the importance associated with corporate behavior.\n\nPESTLE factors influence corporate behaviour in many ways. They cause organisations to change the way they operate, however the size and nature of change is dependent upon which factor is causing the change; (political, economic, social, technological, legal, or environmental).\n\nExamples of political factors could be changes in government legislation. This could affect an organisations Corporate behaviour as they would have to change the way they operate in order to implement these changes; some employees may not like the new changes made.\n\nRecession is an example of an economic factor. If the economy were to be in a recession, businesses may find they have to reduce jobs. This would affect Corporate behaviour as business teams would be short of skills and ideas in order to operate effectively.\n\nChanges in trends and the market is a social factor which affects Corporate behaviour. Organisations may have to change their products or services in order to keep up to date with new trends. In order to do this, employees may be required to learn new skills within a short amount of time to make these changes; relationships between employees and management could be at risk due to these changes.\n\nImplementing technology within organisations could mean more virtual meetings and fewer face to face meetings. As a result, relationships between management and employees could weaken as a result of less face to face conversations.\n\nLegislative rules such as tax may increase which would increase an organisations costs. Changes such as, changing the way the organisation operates may have to be made in order to cover these extra costs.\n\nEnvironmental factors could be any factors which prevent damage to the environment. For example, more employees may be required to telework to reduce the number of employees physically travelling to offices thus reducing carbon dioxide emissions. However this may lead to isolation as communication is reduced, weakening Corporate behaviour within firms.\n\nBusinesses have many stakeholders who influence corporate behaviour. However, businesses who adopt the stakeholder theory are likely to appeal more to their stakeholders as they are showing their care and commitment towards them. This helps to strengthen the Corporate behaviour within a firm and reduces the need for stakeholders to demand change.\n\n"}
{"id": "40602645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40602645", "title": "Cross border listings", "text": "Cross border listings\n\nA commercial company may choose to list its shares in a stock exchange of a country other than that in which the company is based. This practice is known as \"cross-border listing\" or \"cross-listing\". Firms may adopt cross-border listing to obtain advantages that include lower cost of capital, expanded global shareholder base, greater liquidity in the trading of shares, prestige and publicity. Decision makers also need to be satisfied that the benefits exceed possible costs, such as listing costs, exposure to legal liabilities, taxes and various trading frictions, and reconciliation of financial statements with varying national standards. (Karolyi A., 2006,)\n\nExisting regulation in local capital market like taxes, information asymmetry and foreign ownership restrictions usually act as barriers and prevent foreign investors entering those markets. In addition, local investors in segmented domestic capital markets in order to undertake the risk tighten to the local market usually require a risk premium. In order to counter these problem domestic firms can adopt policies such as listing in a foreign exchange in order to offset the negative effects of market segmentation and offer several other straightforward advantages that stem from lower transaction costs (Khurana et al., 2005). Further more, cross border listing serves as a mean for foreign investors to save any transaction costs associated with dealing in a foreign currency as well as to effectively bend any existing foreign exchange regulations since they are allowed to trade share in their own currency. Taken into account that cross-listing serves to lower barriers to foreign investment cross-border listing serves effectively in reducing the firms costs related to market segmentation and therefore lowers the cost of external financing (Alexander et al. cited in Khurana et al., 2005).\n\nThe ability to prevent shareholders or managers to acquire private benefits from their firms is an important aspect of corporate governance since it represents an important source of potential conflict with public shareholders. After all the rationale of raising external capital must be towards that it must be raised only after management's commitment to return this capital to investors and not to extract it for the controlling shareholders' personal use (Karolyi, 2006). Stulz (1999) as cited in Karolyi (2006), placed emphasis on the potential agency conflicts and information asymmetry problems that corporate managers or controlling shareholders would face with public shareholders in their effort to raise external capital. Agency conflicts could arise in the case where the set of actions of corporate managers or controlling shareholders are not aligned with the interests of public shareholders. On the other hand, information problems may arise if the management of the company, although having good information about future cash flows, is unable to credibly convince investors about the accuracy of these cash flows (Karolyi, 2006). Managers can alter those problems if they choose to bond themselves in a better governance regime by cross-listing in order to commit not to engage in illegal activities and as a result they can increase the firms’ value since they are able to raise external capital. Consequently, cross border listing effectively improves a company’s corporate governance regime and this particularly true for such companies that come from countries with inadequate supervision and disclosure standards (Karolyi, 2006; Witmer, 2006,Pagano et al., 2002). In addition, firms that decide to list their shares on a more demanding exchange in terms of disclosure and corporate governance standards enjoy a better post listing profitability than those that cross list in other exchanges. Karolyi (1998) as cited in Pagano et al. (1999), after surveying several number of studies showed that the price reaction is significant for foreign listings in the US which is the country with the highest disclosure standards, whereas it is insignificant otherwise.\n\nMerton (1987) as cited in Khurana et al. (2005) tries to explain the rationale behind a firm’s decision to cross-list its shares by the investor recognition hypothesis. According to this hypothesis stock trading behaviour of investors is affected from the lack of information. Consequently, this behaviour affects the related share price since investors with incomplete information are reluctant to include those shares in their investment portfolios, requiring a risk premium in order to include those shares in their portfolios. Through cross listing firms can increase investor awareness and expand its potential investor base on their securities more easily than if it traded on a single market. Cross border listing enhances the credibility of a firm by providing information to the local capital market therefore the continue flow of information allow the capital market to make faster and more accurate decisions (Licht, 2004). Further more, listing a company’s shares in a major and prestigious stock exchange like NYSE or LSE is accompanied with increased coverage and local media attention which in turn enhances visibility (Pagano et al., 2002). Supporting this argument, Baker et al., (1998) as cited in Witmer (2006), in their study looked how foreign firms’ visibility is affected after cross listing either on NYSE or LSE using two proxies for visibility: the firm’s analyst following and media coverage. According to their findings an average of six more analysts follow the firm after a listing on NYSE and an average of three analysts following the firm after a LSE listing. In addition, they found an average increase in home media coverage by 37 and 11percent after NYSE and LSE cross-listing respectively.\n\nIn order for a market to be liquid transactions must be executed rapidly and with little impact on prices. Firms pursue cross border listings since it reduces transaction costs via an improvement in market liquidity following the foreign listing. The relationship between liquidity and cross listing lies upon the global competition for order flow (trading volume). Consequently, exchanges are forced to continuously look for ways to improve their trading processes in order to enhance market quality and maintain or attract order flow. The benefits that companies seek to gain through cross border listing come as a reduction in the firm’s bid ask price resulting in an increase in firm’s valuation, therefore this improved liquidity is more likely to attract more institutional investors. Low liquidity is perceived as a barrier for institutional investors that prevent them from holding the firms stock due to the high trading costs associated in holding this security (Witmer, 2006; Chouinard & D’Souza, 2003). Further more, the proportion of total trading volume that the new market captures along with the trading restrictions imposed on foreigners prior to listing are factors that affect the extent to which liquidity is enhanced. In addition, another factor favouring the enhancement of liquidity, especially for listing firms that come from emerging markets, is the existence of informational links between markets. If informational links for example were poor for listing firms that come from emerging markets cross-listing would actually reduce liquidity and increase volatility on the domestic market as informative trades were directed to other markets (Domowitz et al. 1998 cited in Chouinard & D’Souza, 2003).\n\nAnother benefit that cross border listing provides to foreign companies is the improved terms by which they can raise external capital either because credit constraints are relaxed, or because of the existence of the bonding effect due to which investor protection is increased. The benefits of cross listing are further increased in the case that either the firm or its shareholders due to financial constraints present in the home market serve as barriers to capital raising (Witmer, 2006; Pagano et al., 2002). In addition, evidence found in prior research of Reese and Weisbach (2002) as cited in Witmer (2006) demonstrated an increase in the capital raising as a result of the bonding hypothesis in that a firm’s ability to raise capital in its own market is enhanced through cross listing. More over, firms perceive cross border listings as a mean to raise capital needed to finance future investment projects. Fast growing firms are the ones that are more likely to experience the benefits of the increased funding (Pagano et al., 2002).\n\n"}
{"id": "37846509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37846509", "title": "Custom Nation", "text": "Custom Nation\n\nCustom Nation is a nonfiction book written by Anthony Flynn and Emily Flynn Vencat. It was published on November 15, 2012 by BenBella Books. The text examines customization in today's market and in American culture. The book’s full title is \"Custom Nation: Why Customization Is the Future of Business and How to Profit from it\".\n\nThe book was written by Anthony Flynn, the co-founder of YouBar, a custom energy bar company, together with his sister, Emily Flynn Vencat, a journalist. \nThe book was published on November 15, 2012 by BenBella Books. The book is 224 pages in length.\n\n\"Custom Nation\" examines the trend in today’s market towards customizable products. It looks at Vistaprint, Shutterfly, Zazzle, CafePress, Starbucks, Dell, Subway, and other companies whose business concepts depend on customization.\n\"Custom Nation\" includes chapters on mass production, the inception of customization, advice for how to launch a customization-based business, advice for how to add customization to an existing business, and methods to grow and market a customization business.\n\n\"Custom Nation\" was ranked #8 on the New York Times’ Bestsellers List in early December 2012. USA Today ranked \"Custom Nation\" #94 on its Bestsellers list. \"Publishers Weekly\" ranked \"Custom Nation\" #12 on its Bestsellers list. \"Custom Nation\" was ranked #78 in Amazon.com’s Management and Leadership category, sub listed under Planning and Forecasting. \"Custom Nation\" was also ranked #53 on Amazon’s Bestsellers list for Management and Leadership sub listed under Production and Operations books. It was ranked #150 on Amazon’s general content Bestsellers list.\n\"Publishers Weekly\" reviewed the book in September 2012, writing that \"Custom Nation\" was an excellent instruction manual for businesses looking to use customized products to grow business.\n"}
{"id": "14210324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14210324", "title": "Dental Laboratories Association", "text": "Dental Laboratories Association\n\nThe Dental Laboratories Association (DLA) is the professional body for dental laboratory owners in the United Kingdom. It is estimated that members of the DLA are responsible for over 80 per cent of the dental laboratory services in the UK.\n\nThe DLA began as a division of the Surgical Instrument Manufacturers Association, later becoming a separate entity. The first meeting of the DLA Council took place in London in 1961. The first Secretary was John Wrench and administration was provided by a firm of accountants called Hughes Allan. \n\nIn 1977 Trevor Roadley, a Nottingham dental laboratory owner was appointed as Secretary. Operating initially at his laboratory and then in the DLA's first premises, Roadley gradually built up the range of member services and heightened the standing of the association. The DLA moved to larger premises in Nottingham in 1986, a converted chapel that was being used as a dental laboratory. At this stage the DLA had approximately 400 members. In 1987 Bill Courtney took over as Secretary. Like Trevor before him, Bill was a dental laboratory owner and member of the DLA Council. \n\nBy now the DLA was a recognised and respected member of the dental world and regularly met with organisations such as the General Dental Council, Orthodontic Technicians Association, British Dental Association and the Department of Health. These close relationships continue to this day and the DLA has presented evidence to the Health Select Committee at the House of Commons on the challenges faced by the profession. \n\nThe DLA was instrumental in setting up the Dental Technicians Education and Training Advisory Board (DTETAB), which is now known as the Dental Technologists Association (DTA). The late 1980s and early 1990s saw the emergence of the Medical Devices Directive and the introduction of Quality Systems to the industry. The DLA worked to establish an industry-led standard and the first example of this was a system based on BS 5750 called the Certification Authority for Dental Laboratories and Suppliers (CADLAS), which is still operating as AMTAC MEDICA and is now audited to ISO9002. With the lessons learned in setting up CADLAS, a new system called the Dental Appliance Manufacturers Audit Scheme (DAMAS) was launched in 1998. This is based around ISO 9000 and also addresses the Medical Devices Regulations (MDR). \n\nBy now the Association membership had risen to over 900 and the association moved into new offices at Arboretum Gate in February 1997. \n\nThere have been many changes since 2000, including the retirement of Bill Courtney and appointment of Richard Daniels as Chief Executive. Membership has passed the 1,000 mark, and the DLA is building a profile as a campaigning organisation with appearances across the media.\n\nIn May 2001 the Association moved to their current offices on Wollaton Road, Beeston in Nottingham.\n\nThe DLA logo is circular in shape with the initials \"DLA\" in the middle.\n\nThe DLA's current projects include:\n\n\nThe DLA is a member of the British Dental Health Foundation (BDHF), the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) and the Federation of European Dental Laboratory Owners (FEPPD). \n\nAs the flagship event of the Dental Laboratories Association (DLA), the Dental Technology Showcase (DTS) is a highly respected platform for dental technicians, clinical dental technicians and lab owners to update and refresh their knowledge and skills.\n\nHeld alongside The Dentistry Show since 2014, the event offers vast networking opportunities as well as outstanding education, verifiable CPD and access to the very latest innovations in the UK industry.\n\nDTS 2015 will take place on Friday 17th and Saturday 18th April at the NEC in Birmingham UK, ensuring a convenient and central location for thousands of dental professionals to attend. An extensive trade exhibition will host over 100 leading dental suppliers and manufacturers including 3Shape, Bracon, Cendres + Metaux, Nobel Biocare, Straumann, Metrodent, Ivoclar Vivadent and Schottlander to name but a few, each demonstrating the latest products, materials and technologies available. Experts will be on hand to provide any information, advice or guidance you may need, helping you to choose the most suitable equipment for optimal clinical results, streamlined workflows and maximum return on investment.\n\nFurther information about DTS can be found online: http://www.the-dts.co.uk/\n\nThe DLA Council is the governing body of the association and is elected by the members. The DLA is run by the Nationally Elected Council. All member laboratories may send an observer to Council meetings. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "44075886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44075886", "title": "Dioceldo Sy", "text": "Dioceldo Sy\n\nDioceldo Sy (born March 6, 1958) is a Filipino businessman, sportsman, and team owner of Blackwater Elite in the Philippine Basketball Association. He is the sole proprietor of Ever Bilena Cosmetics, Inc. which he established in 1983.\n\nSy started out as a messenger and clerk for his grandfather's pomade business. Through his grandfather, who was a Chinese immigrant, he learned about trading and dealing with people.\n\nHe studied, and at the same time played basketball, at UNO High School during his secondary years and at PSBA for his college education. After two years in college, he dropped out to work full-time for his grandfather. However, when his grandfather's business went bankrupt in 1980, he found himself in the streets and with no job. During this time, he became a freelance trader, buying and selling anything.\n\nIn 1983, with his savings from buying and selling, he put up his own cosmetic company, which is now known as Ever Bilena. From a single-line company selling nail polish, Ever Bilena has grown into a major player in the cosmetics industry with over 1,000 products in the market. He has branched out into commercial ventures in food, health drinks, fragrances, soap and detergents.\n\nAs a sportsman and team owner, he bankrolled several basketball teams that bear the brands of his products, such as Blu Detergent and Shark Energy Drink in the PBL, Ever Bilena Gandang Pinay in the WPBL and Blackwater Sports in the PBA D-League. These teams brought home several championships through the years.\n\nHe is former PBL chairman, and has been financing the stints of the Philippine women’s basketball team in several international tournaments and has been known to support charitable causes. He donated a P1.8 Million payloader to the Tacloban city government in the wake of the Yolanda tragedy. He gave Asi Taulava his first break in Philippine basketball by signing him to play for Blu Detergent in the PBL in 1997 and was once close to managing Manny Pacquiao before he became a world champion. He is chairman of the Philippine Secondary School Basketball Championship (PSSBC).\n"}
{"id": "39333522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39333522", "title": "Domicilium citandi et executandi", "text": "Domicilium citandi et executandi\n\nDomicilium citandi et executandi is a Latin legal term meaning the address nominated by a party in a legal contract where legal notices may be sent; the onus usually being upon that party to notify the other signatory of any change in address, especially to be ready to receive any notice that is delivered to that address.\n\nFor instance, the delivery of a legal notice to the address of the \"domicilium citandi et executandi\" of a party to a contract can be considered legally sufficient for that notice to be considered received by that party, without the need for the person giving notice actually to find the person.\n\nOne or both parties to a contract may demand the other nominate a \"domicilium citandi et executandi\", typically in order to expedite later legal procedures relating to a contract by making it impossible for a party to claim that a legal notice was not received.\n\nThe literal translation from Latin into English is \"house for summoning and upkeep\".\n\nThe Latin term is commonly used within the legal jurisdiction of Zimbabwe and South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "605590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605590", "title": "Edward Biddle", "text": "Edward Biddle\n\nEdward Biddle (1738–1779) was an American soldier, lawyer, and statesman from Pennsylvania. He was a delegate to the Continental Congress in 1774 and 1775 and a signatory to the Continental Association.\n\nEdward was the son of William (1698–1756) and Mary (Scull) (1709–1790) Biddle. He was born in 1738 at Philadelphia, and had nine brothers and sisters, although two died in infancy. His formal education was limited to the common (public) schools and ended at about age fourteen. When the French and Indian War began in 1754 he joined the provincial forces as an Ensign. By the time he left the service, at the end of the war in 1763 he had been promoted to Captain.\n\nOn June 6, 1761 Edward married Elizabeth Ross, the sister of George Ross. After the war he read law in the offices of her brother. By 1767 he had been admitted to the bar, and the couple moved to Reading where he began his practice. Although the couple had no children, they both came from large families. The Betsy Ross who gained fame as the seamstress of the first American flag was the wife of her nephew. He was the uncle of Congressman Richard Biddle.\n\nAlso in 1767 Biddle began his career in the Pennsylvania Provincial Assembly as a representative for Berks County. He would serve there until the colonial assembly went out of business during the Revolution. He was also a member of the rebel provincial congress, and later the state General Assembly until 1778. He was a leader within that body of the Whig or radical group in the struggle to set Pennsylvania's course in the revolution.\n\nIn 1774 Pennsylvania was divided about the looming revolution. The loyalists and the supporters of the Penn family in the Assembly were joined by the Quakers who opposed any war. As a result, in July, the Assembly sent a split delegation to the Continental Congress: Galloway, Humphreys, and Rhoads were all moderates, while Biddle, Mifflin, Morton, and Ross were radicals.\n\nThat first Continental Congress produced a statement or Declaration of Rights, as well as a plan of union and pleas to King George to resolve the issues that separated the colonies from Great Britain. They also produced a renewal of the non-importation agreement that had been used during the Stamp Act protests. Edward Biddle was a member of the committee that drafted to Declaration of Rights, and later oversaw the printing of the resolutions the Congress had passed.\n\nEarly in 1775, Governor John Penn called the Assembly into session, intent on having Pennsylvania send its own declarations to the crown. These would be based on the Galloway Plan that had been rejected by the Continental Congress, and would try to reconcile Pennsylvania with the British government. But the legislature mirrored the growing split within the colonies. The Whigs, led by Biddle and George Ross and John Dickinson won the day. Edward Biddle was elected speaker, replacing Joseph Galloway who had held the post the previous year. The actions of the Continental Congress were approved, and a more radical delegation was named to the next Congress.\n\nBiddle died in Chatsworth, Baltimore County, Maryland on September 5, 1779. He is buried in St. Pauls Churchyard in Baltimore.\n\n"}
{"id": "2049103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2049103", "title": "Evert Dudok", "text": "Evert Dudok\n\nEvert Dudok (born February 23, 1959 in Venlo, Netherlands) has been the President of EADS Astrium Satellites since June 2007. Prior to this date he was president of EADS Astrium Space Transportation since June 2005. Before that he was Head of Earth Observation & Science division at EADS Astrium since March 2002.\n\nEvert Dudok started his career with DASA in Ottobrunn in 1984, where he worked many years for \"Payload Antennas\" activities. Since the beginning of Astrium, he was Head of the Business Unit “Navigation and constellations” in the Business Division “Telecommunication & Navigation”.\n"}
{"id": "446411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446411", "title": "Financial District, Manhattan", "text": "Financial District, Manhattan\n\nThe Financial District of Lower Manhattan, also known as FiDi, is a neighborhood located on the southern tip of Manhattan Island, where the City of New York itself originated in 1624. The district comprises the offices and headquarters of many of the city's major financial institutions, including the New York Stock Exchange and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Anchored on Wall Street in the Financial District, New York City has been called both the most financially powerful city and the leading financial center of the world, and the New York Stock Exchange is the world's largest stock exchange by total market capitalization. Several other major exchanges have or had headquarters in the Financial District, including the New York Mercantile Exchange, NASDAQ, the New York Board of Trade, and the former American Stock Exchange.\n\nThe neighborhood roughly overlaps with the boundaries of the New Amsterdam settlement in the late 17th century. The population of the Financial District has grown to an estimated 61,000 residents as of 2018, up from 43,000 as of 2014, which in turn was nearly double the 23,000 recorded at the 2000 Census.\n\nThe Financial District encompasses roughly the area south of City Hall Park in Lower Manhattan but excludes Battery Park and Battery Park City. The former World Trade Center complex was located in the neighborhood until the September 11, 2001 attacks; the neighborhood includes the successor One World Trade Center. The heart of the Financial District is often considered to be the corner of Wall Street and Broad Street, both of which are contained entirely within the district. The northeastern part of the financial district (along Fulton Street and John Street) was known in the early 20th century as the Insurance District, due to the large number of insurance companies that were either headquartered there, or maintained their New York offices there.\n\nUntil the late 20th and early 21st century, the neighborhood was considered to be primarily a destination for daytime traders and office workers from around New York City and the surrounding areas. The neighborhood now has a growing number of full-time residents, to an estimated 61,000 residents as of 2018, over double the 23,000 recorded at the 2000 Census, with many buildings being converted from office space to apartments and condominiums after the September 11, 2001 attacks.\n\nAlthough the term is sometimes used as a synonym for \"Wall Street\", the latter term is often applied metonymously to the financial markets as a whole (and is also a street in the district), whereas \"the Financial District\" implies an actual geographical location. The Financial District is part of Manhattan Community Board 1, which also includes five other neighborhoods (Battery Park City, Civic Center, Greenwich South, Seaport, and Tribeca).\n\nFederal Hall National Memorial, on the site of the first U.S. Capitol and the first inauguration of George Washington as the first President of the United States, is located at the corner of Wall Street and Nassau Street.\n\nThe Financial District has a number of tourist attractions such as the adjacent South Street Seaport Historic District, the New York City Police Museum, and Museum of American Finance. Bowling Green is the starting point of traditional ticker-tape parades on Broadway, where here it is also known as the Canyon of Heroes. The Museum of Jewish Heritage and the Skyscraper Museum are both in adjacent Battery Park City which is also home to the Brookfield Place (formerly World Financial Center).\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "3357598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3357598", "title": "Four Queens", "text": "Four Queens\n\nThe Four Queens Hotel and Casino is located in downtown Las Vegas on the Fremont Street Experience. The 690-room hotel and casino is owned and operated by TLC Enterprises, which acquired the property from the Elsinore Corporation in 2003.\n\nConstruction began on November 16, 1964. The $5.5 million project was planned to include an 18-story hotel. Four Queens opened on June 2, 1966. The casino is named after the builder Ben Goffstein's four daughters, Faith, Hope, Benita, and Michele. It originally contained only 120 rooms and a casino. The 18-story hotel building was eventually added.\n\nFrom 1972 to 2003 the hotel/casino was owned by Elsinore Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Hyatt Corporation until 1979, when it became an independent company. In 1995, Elsinore filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and the investment firm Morgens, Waterfall, Vintiadis & Company obtained 99 percent ownership of the company.\n\nIn 1976 the casino expanded to and changed decor to be warmer. A second 18-story hotel building was completed in 1981.\n\nToday the casino occupies the entire block bordered by Fremont Street, Casino Center, Third Street and Carson Avenue. The Four Queens was also a partner in renovating the downtown area and creating the Fremont Street Experience.\n\nIn December 2003 the Four Queens casino was the first Las Vegas casino to offer Geoff Hall's Blackjack variant Blackjack Switch, which is now widely available throughout Las Vegas. In April 2007 the Canyon Club opened at the Four Queens, providing the first downtown casino club. The hotel contains 690 rooms as of 2017.\n"}
{"id": "43651537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43651537", "title": "George Carter I", "text": "George Carter I\n\nGeorge Carter I (17771846), son of Robert \"Councillor\" Carter the III and Frances Ann Tasker Carter was an American plantation owner most famous for his building of Oatlands Plantation, an estate located in Leesburg, Virginia, and as one of the wealthiest individuals in Virginia's Loudoun County during the early 19th century.\n\nGeorge's father Robert Carter III was famous for his manumission of 452 slaves during his lifetime and for being an outspoken critic of slavery in colonial America. Rather than send George to his own alma mater, William & Mary, Robert sent George to the \"College in the English Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations\" (now Brown University), writing to its president James Manning that his sole motivation for doing so was Virginia's devotion to slavery, and that \"On this consideration only, I do not intend that these two sons shall return to this State till each of them arrive at the age of 21 years.\"\n\nAfter six years in Rhode Island, George began studying law at the University of Pennsylvania, but left shortly thereafter, relocating in 1798 at the age of 21 to take up management of the 3400 acres of land his father owned in Loudon County.\n\nGeorge began construction of Oatlands Plantation in 1804, and would continue to build on this estate throughout his life. George's father Robert had begun emancipating slaves in 1791, a process which proved to be a long and drawn out legal affair as well as taxing on the Carter family's wealth. In 1805, George Carter filed suit in an attempt to stop the remaining emancipations of Carter slaves, but the Virginia Court of Appeals ruled against George in 1808. George needed slaves for his work at Oatlands and thus set about buying more to replace those being emancipated. Census records indicate that in 1800, Oatlands had 10 slaves, and by 1860, 128 slaves.\n\nGeorge did not marry until 1835, at age 58, when he wed Elizabeth Osborne Carter, widow of Joseph Lewis Jr.. George had earlier suggested in an 1816 letter that in one of his \"vicious and corrupt\" habits he had \"been too open, and not used dissumulation enough, and have rendered myself liable to be animadverted upon - but in this I comfort myself in knowing that I have no mulatto children.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26002214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26002214", "title": "IMM Graduate School of Marketing", "text": "IMM Graduate School of Marketing\n\nThe IMM Graduate School is a private university owned by the Institute of Marketing Management in South Africa. It offers a broad selection of programmes and qualifications in marketing, supply chain and business management.\n\nThe IMM Graduate School issues certificates, diplomas and degrees in business and marketing.\n\nThe school provides most of its teaching through distance learning, but students can supplement their distanced learning by receiving academic support at one of their Student Support Centres situated throughout Africa.\n\nThe school's national office is in Johannesburg (Gauteng), and it has regional offices in Cape Town (Western Cape), Durban (KwaZulu-Natal) and Harare (Zimbabwe).\n\nThe IMM Graduate School is registered with the Department of Higher Education and Training (DHET) as a Private Higher Education Institution under the Higher Education Act, 1997 with the Registration Certificate Number 2000/HE07/013.\n\nThe IMM Graduate School is quality assured by the South African Council on Higher Education (CHE). The school's programmes have been registered by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA). In addition, the IMM Graduate School is a member of the Association of Private Providers of Education, Training and Development (APPETD).\n"}
{"id": "36658402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36658402", "title": "Ibrahim Saleem", "text": "Ibrahim Saleem\n\nIbrahim Saleem (also known as \"Bandhu Ibrahim Saleem\") is a local business expert in the Maldives. He commenced his career at the Office of the Prime Minister in 1967, from there on he has had an illustrious career spanning over 44 years, holding prominent posts, both in the public and private sector in Maldives.\n\nMr. Saleem commenced his Government Services at the Office of the Prime Minister in 1967. He also served at the Maldives Shipping Limited until he was posted at the Department of Finance as an Assistant Director. In 1991 he became a Director at the Ministry of Finance. He was the Vice Governor of the Maldives to the World Bank from 1982 to 1987. He has also served as Member of the Board of Directors of Dhiraagu, the Maldives Telecommunications Company, Maldives National Shipping Limited and as Chairman of the Board of MTCC and the Maldives Finance Leasing Company.In 1993, Mr. Saleem was appointed Managing Director of the Maldives Transport and Contracting Company (MTCC).\n\nMr. Saleem was appointed the Honorary Consul of Italy in the Maldives in 1999.\n\nHe was also the Managing Director of Island Aviation Services 2002 to 2011. At the Island Aviation Services, he was instrumental in the expansion of the company in terms of fleet capacity of aircraft and passenger flows; and commencing international operations. At present, he is appointed as the Chairman of the board of Island Aviation Services.\n"}
{"id": "6323099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6323099", "title": "Identifying and Managing Project Risk", "text": "Identifying and Managing Project Risk\n\nIdentifying and Managing Project Risk by Tom Kendrick is a book about identifying and managing risks on projects. It was published on April 25, 2003 by American Management Association.\n\nKendrick's coverage of risk, and more prominently uncertainty, is complete in a general fashion focusing a majority of his discussion on risk in projects due to poor planning and change management processes.\n\nHe uses a collection of project elements from various projects his clients have conducted. He uses this data, Project Experience Risk Information Library (PERIL) database, to quantify and rank classes of risk. In the early part of his book he uses this significantly and the Appendix lists approximately 120 of the element's descriptions.\n\nThe book is structured to follow the PMBOK stages of a project — initiation, planning, controlling, executing and closure. Each chapter discusses a set of concepts and concludes with a bulleted \"Key Ideas\" section and an anecdote from the two attempts to construct the Panama Canal.\n\nCritical reception has been positive. \"Strategic Finance\" reviewed the book's third edition, praising it as \"a great resource for new and experienced project managers because it reflects the most recent changes to the Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK® Guide) from the Project Management Institute.\" \"The Quality Management Journal\" also wrote a favorable review for the work, which they felt was \"insightful\".\n"}
{"id": "7444893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7444893", "title": "Injection molding of liquid silicone rubber", "text": "Injection molding of liquid silicone rubber\n\nInjection molding of liquid silicone rubber (LSR) is a process to produce pliable, durable parts in high volume.\n\nLiquid silicone rubber is a high purity platinum cured silicone with low compression set, great stability and ability to resist extreme temperatures of heat and cold ideally suitable for production of parts, where high quality is a must. Due to the thermosetting nature of the material, liquid silicone injection molding requires special treatment, such as intensive distributive mixing, while maintaining the material at a low temperature before it is pushed into the heated cavity and vulcanized.\n\nChemically, silicone rubber is a family of thermoset elastomers that have a backbone of alternating silicon and oxygen atoms and methyl or vinyl side groups. Silicone rubbers constitute about 30% of the silicone family, making them the largest group of that family. Silicone rubbers maintain their mechanical properties over a wide range of temperatures and the presence of methyl-groups in silicone rubbers makes these materials extremely hydrophobic, making them suitable for electrical surface insulations.\n\nTypical applications for liquid silicone rubber are products that require high precision such as seals, sealing membranes, electric connectors, multi-pin connectors, infant products where smooth surfaces are desired, such as bottle nipples, medical applications as well as kitchen goods such as baking pans, spatulas, etc. Often, silicone rubber is overmolded onto other parts made of different plastics. For example, a silicone button face might be overmolded onto an Nylon 6,6 housing.\n\nIn order for the liquid injection molding process to fully occur, several mechanical components must be in place. Typically, a molding machine requires a metered pumping device in conjunction with an injection unit—a dynamic or static mixer is attached. An integrated system can aid in precision and process efficiency. The critical components of a liquid injection molding machine include:\n\nInjectors. An injecting device is responsible for pressurizing the liquid silicone to aid in the injection of the material into the pumping section of the machine. Pressure and injection rate can be adjusted at the operator’s discretion.\n\nMetering Units. Metering units pump the two primary liquid materials, the catalyst and the base forming silicone, ensuring that the two materials maintain a constant ratio while being simultaneously released.\n\nSupply Drums. Supply drums, also called plungers, serve as the primary containers for mixing materials. Both the supply drums and a container of pigment connect to the main pumping system.\n\nMixers. A static or dynamic mixer combines materials after they exit the metering units. Once combined, pressure is used to drive the mixture into a designated mold.\n\nNozzle. To facilitate the deposition of the mixture into the mold, a nozzle is used. Often, the nozzle features an automatic shut-off valve to help prevent leaking and overfilling the mold.\n\nMold Clamp. A mold clamp secures the mold during the injection molding process, and opens the mold upon completion.\n\nBiocompatibility: Under extensive testing, liquid silicone rubber has demonstrated superior compatibility with human tissue and body fluids. In comparison to other elastomers, LSR is resistant to bacteria growth and will not stain or corrode other materials. LSR is also tasteless and odorless and can be formulated to comply with stringent FDA requirements. The material can be sterilized via a variety of methods, including steam autoclaving, ethylene oxide (ETO), gamma, e-beam and numerous other techniques, meeting all required approvals such as BfR XV, FDA 21 CFR 177.2600, USP Class VI.\n\nDurable: LSR parts can withstand extreme temperatures, which makes them an ideal choice for components under the hood of cars and in close proximity to engines. Parts fabricated via liquid silicone rubber injection molding are fire retardant and will not melt.\n\nChemical resistance: Liquid silicone rubber resists water, oxidation and some chemical solutions such as acids and alkali.\n\nTemperature resistance: Compared to other elastomers, silicone can withstand a wide range of high/low temperature extremes.\n\nMechanical properties: LSR has good elongation, high tear and tensile strength, excellent flexibility and a hardness range of 5 to 80 Shore A.\n\nElectrical properties: LSR has excellent insulating properties, which offer an appealing option for a host of electrical applications. Compared to conventional insulating material, silicone can perform in far higher and lower temperatures.\n\nTransparency and pigmentation: LSR possesses a natural transparency, this attribute makes it possible to produce, colorful, custom, molded products\n\nLiquid silicone rubbers are supplied in barrels. Because of their low viscosity, these rubbers can be pumped through pipelines and tubes to the vulcanization equipment. The two components are pumped through a static mixer by a metering pump. One of the components contains the catalyst, typically platinum based. A coloring paste as well as other additives can also be added before the material enters the static mixer section. In the static mixer the components are well mixed and are transferred to the cooled metering section of the injection molding machine. The static mixer renders a very homogeneous material that results in products that are not only very consistent throughout the part, but also from part to part. This is in contrast to solid silicone rubber materials that are purchased pre-mixed and partially vulcanized. In contrast, hard silicone rubbers are processed by transfer molding and result in less material consistency and control, leading to higher part variability. Additionally, solid silicone rubber materials are processed at higher temperatures and require longer vulcanization times.\n\nLiquid silicone has a very low viscosity index and requires perfect seals of the mould cavity in order to guarantee a burr-free finished product.\nAs injections are carried out at high temperature, steel dilation and natural shrinkage of materials must be considered at the design stage of the LSR injection tooling. \n\nFrom the metering section of the injection molding machine, the compound is pushed through cooled sprue and runner systems into a heated cavity where the vulcanization takes place. The cold runner and general cooling results in no loss of material in the feed lines. The cooling allows production of LSR parts with nearly zero material waste, eliminating trimming operations and yielding significant savings in material cost.\n\nLiquid silicone rubbers are supplied in a variety of containers, from tubes to 55 gallon drums. Because of their viscous nature, these liquids are pumped at high pressures (500 - 5000 psi) based on the durometer of the material. The raw materials are shipped in two separate containers (known in the industry as a kit) identified as \"A\" and B\" compounds, with the \"B\" side usually containing the catalyst, but may vary based on the brand of silicone used. The two (A and B) compounds must be mixed in a 1 to 1 ratio, usually by way of a static mixer, adding pigment during the mixing process before the curing process begins. Once the two components come together the curing process begins immediately. A chiller supplying cold water to jacketed fittings is typically used to retard the curing process prior to the materials introduction to the mold. A color pigment can be added via a color injector used in conjunction with the material pump (closed loop metering system) before the material enters the static mixer section.\n\nIn a cold deck scenario, the 1 to 1 mixed compound is pumped through cooled sprue and runner systems into a heated cavity where the vulcanization takes place. The cold runner and general cooling results in minimal loss of material as the injection occurs directly into the part or cavity, saving on overall material costs and using high consistency rubber. The cooling allows production of LSR parts with nearly zero material valve gate waste, however this does not guarantee a \"flash free\" finished part. Molds and tooling are varying in design, execution and cost. A good cold runner is expensive as compared to conventional hot runner tooling, and has the potential to provide a high level of performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "8889088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8889088", "title": "International Accounting Standards Board", "text": "International Accounting Standards Board\n\nThe International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) is the independent, accounting standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation.\n\nThe IASB was founded on April 1, 2001, as the successor to\nthe International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC). It is responsible for developing International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), previously known as International Accounting Standards (IAS) and promoting the use and application of these standards.\n\nOn December 31, 1920, The International Accounting Standards Foundation (IASF) was incorporated as a tax-exempt organization in the U.S. state of Delaware. On February 6, 2001, the International Financial Reporting Standards Foundation was also incorporated as a tax-exempt organization in Delaware. The IFRS Foundation is an independent, not-for-profit organisation. Its primary mission is to develop, in the public interest, a single set of high-quality, understandable, enforceable and globally accepted International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) based upon clearly articulated principles.\n\nIFRS are developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the independent standard-setting body of the IFRS Foundation. The IASB assumed accounting standard-setting responsibilities from its predecessor body, the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC), on March 1, 2001. This was the culmination of a restructuring based on the recommendations of the report \"Recommendations on Shaping IASC for the Future\".\n\nThe IASB forms part the three-tier structure employed by the IFRS Foundation and is responsible for setting the IFRS and related technical activities. The IASB is overseen by the Trustees of the IFRS Foundation, responsible for the organisation's governance, the appointment of IASB members and funding. The IFRS Foundation is publicly accountable to a Monitoring Board of capital market authorities.\n\nThe IASB originally had 13 full-time Board members, each with one vote. They are selected as a group of experts with a mix of experience of standard-setting, preparing and using accounts, and academic work. At their January 2009 meeting, the Trustees of the Foundation concluded the first part of the second Constitution Review, announcing the creation of a Monitoring Board and the expansion of the IASB to 16 members and giving more consideration to the geographical composition of the IASB.\n\nThe IFRS Interpretations Committee has 15 members. Its brief is to provide timely guidance on issues that arise in practice.\n\nA unanimous vote is not necessary in order for the publication of a Standard, exposure draft, or final \"IFRIC\" Interpretation. The Board's 2008 Due Process manual stated that approval by nine of the members is required.\n\nAs of July 2014, the members included:\n\n\nFormer IASB members include James J. Leisenring, Robert P. Garnett, Mary Barth, David Tweedie, Gilbert Gélard, Warren McGregor, and Tatsumi Yamada.\n\nOn July 1, 2011, Hans Hoogervorst succeeded David Tweedie as Chairman. David Tweedie had served as the Board's Chairman since its creation in 2001.\n\nThe IASB Handbook describes the consultative arrangements of the IASB. The Board also publishes a brief guide on how standards are developed.\n\nThe IFRS Foundation raises funds for the operation of the IASB. Most contributors are banks and other companies which use or have an interest in promoting international standards. In 2008, American companies gave £2.4 million, more than those of any other country. However, contributions fell in the wake of the financial crisis of 2007–2010, and a shortfall was reported in 2010. Academics such as Oxford professor Karthik Ramanna have criticized this arrangement as facilitating regulatory capture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4129355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4129355", "title": "Joseph Berardino", "text": "Joseph Berardino\n\nJoseph (Joe) F. Berardino (born 1950) is an American businessman, Certified Public Accountant, and managing director at Alvarez and Marsal. Beradino was formerly managing partner and CEO of Arthur Andersen and chairman and CEO of Profectus Bioscience.\n\nBerardino joined the Big 5 accounting firm Arthur Andersen's New York City office in 1972, after graduating from the Fairfield University Dolan School of Business with a B.S. in Accounting. He was admitted to the partnership in 1982, rising to head of Andersen's U.S. audit practice.\n\nIn 1998, then United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Chairman Arthur Levitt launched an attack on the auditing business. At that time, it was felt that accounting firms were conflicted by selling consulting services to the same companies whose books they were auditing. In 2000, Berardino negotiated a compromise with the SEC. Auditing and consulting fees would henceforth be disclosed. At Andersen, Berardino was admired for having negotiated this compromise, because a prohibition from signing consulting contracts with audit clients would have been very damaging to Andersen's business. Levitt praised Berardino's leadership in his book \"Take on the Street...\".\n\nBerardino became Managing Partner - Chief Executive Officer of Andersen Worldwide (the governing body of Andersen's operations in 84 countries including 85,000 people) in January 2001 shortly after its split with Andersen Consulting (Accenture). When Andersen's client Enron declared bankruptcy in the highly publicized Enron scandal, Berardino appeared before Congress and announced a series of steps to improve Andersen and the accounting profession. In early 2002, when Andersen discovered that its auditors had been involved with shredding documents related to the Enron audit, Berardino disclosed this activity voluntarily to the U.S. Department of Justice and the SEC. While in Tokyo meeting with Asia-Pacific partners in an attempt to keep the firm together, Berardino received the news that the U.S. Justice Department was likely to indict the firm.\n\nBerardino hired former Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker in February 2002 to create an independent oversight board and reform Andersen into a pure auditing business. On March 14, 2002, the Justice Department indicted Andersen for obstruction of justice based on the document shredding which took place.\n\nInitially, the firm's 18-strong Board of Partners asked Berardino to stay on. He resigned on March 26, 2002, in the hope that Justice would reconsider the indictment. They did not, and Andersen was convicted of obstruction of justice on June 15, 2002. By the end of August, it surrendered its licenses to audit public companies in the US.\n\nIn 2006, the Supreme Court of the U.S. overturned this conviction in a unanimous opinion. It was a symbolic victory for the defunct accounting firm.\n\nHe was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Profectus BioSciences in Baltimore, Maryland up until January 24, 2008. Berardino continued with the company as a Director through 2010. He had joined the company as a Director in 2004. \nProfectus Biosciences, Inc. is a biotechnology start-up that develops therapeutic and vaccine technologies intended to reduce the morbidity and mortality caused by viral diseases. The company’s near-term target is the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). On the vaccine front, Profectus is trying to target HIV as it attempts to enter a cell. The company’s therapies aim to cool the body’s overheated immune system after it is infected with HIV. Profectus is a spin-off from the Institute of Human Virology and was created to commercialize its work.\n\nBerardino is currently a Managing Director (since 2008) in charge of the Eastern region in the Business Consulting practice at Alvarez and Marsal. He also serves on the board of the firm's European Consulting Services practice.\n\nBerardino serves on the Boards of Directors of Quiksilver (NYSE:ZQK) since 2011; ValueVision Media (aka ShopHQ from 2008-2012; NASDAQ:VVTV) and Neuberger Berman from 2011 to 2012 and has served for eighteen years on the Board of Trustees of Fairfield University. \nIn 2001, he received Fairfield University’s Beta Alpha Sigma Award, as well as a Doctor of Law, Honoras Causas, from the University of the East in the Philippines. \nIn 2004 Berardino was invested as a Knight of Malta.\n\n"}
{"id": "19102441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19102441", "title": "Juma al Majid", "text": "Juma al Majid\n\nJuma al Majid (born in Dubai, United Arab Emirates around 1930) is an Emirati businessman, political adviser, and philanthropist. Al Majid is ranked among the Richest Arabs in the world.\n\nH.E. Juma Majid was born in Al Shandagah, Dubai in 1930.\n\nMajid was introduced to the grocery business in Dubai through his uncle and continued in the same business for another two to three years until he met Mohammad Al Gaz in 1952. Al Gaz brought goods in Dubai from Kuwait and Bahrain, and Al Majid would help with the sales. In 1956, Al Qaz asked Al Majid to travel with him to Kuwait to trade in that lucrative market. The two used to take tobacco and Omani dry lime to sell in Kuwait and Bahrain and returned with goods like fabric and watches — from Switzerland and France — to sell in Dubai. The business expanded to Pakistan, India and across the Arab world into Europe, as it began to attract the support of international brands planning to enter the then Trucial States. It was around that time that Al Majid formally launched his own companies, Mohammad & Juma Al Majid alongside Al Gaz's United Arab Agencies.\n\nAt the beginning of the fifties, he participated with his colleagues: Mr. Humaid Al Tayer, Abdullah Al Ghurair, Nasir Rashed Loutah, and with consent of Sheikh Rashid bin Saeed Al Maktoum in the establishment of the first charitable society to help the needy of Dubai, so they established two secondary schools, one for boys in Bur Dubai, called Jamal Abdul Nasser Secondary School, the second for girls in Bur Deira, called Amna Secondary Schools.\n\nThe partnership between Al Majid and Al Qaz lasted 11 years.\n\nAfter the UAE Federation was formed, Al Majid left the gold business as the trade and development projects the country offered greater opportunities.\n\nIn 1974, Al Gaz and Al Majid began work on establishing a Pepsi factory in Dubai, the National Cement Company, and the Dubai Chamber of Commerce and Industry. He also diversified into the carpentry and décor business. The group has since diversified further into transport and logistics, construction, food and advertising. There is also an international investment company, Al Majid Investment.\n\nMajid established the Islamic and Arabic Studies College in 1987 in Dubai.\n\nIn 1990, Al Majid, along with Al Gaz and other local philanthropists, established the Beit Al Khair Society, a charitable organization aims to aid the poor citizens, needy students, as well as offering cash or commodities to the victims of disasters.\n\nIn 1991, Al Majid realized the needs of scholars and researchers, especially those who are unable to obtain the necessary books, references and manuscripts, so he established a public library, afterwards it was developed to become a cultural organization, known as Juma Al Majid Center for Culture and Heritage.\n\nOver time, Al Majid went on to secure franchise rights for other international brands — in engineering, automobiles, office furniture, communication and tyres — from companies like Samsung, Hyundai, Hitachi and many more. He is succeeded by his heir Khalid Juma Al Majid.\n"}
{"id": "27658114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27658114", "title": "Kare Casals", "text": "Kare Casals\n\nKare Casals (born December 13, 1966 in Espoo, Finland), is a Finnish business developer and a leading figure in E-commerce promotion in Finland. He is better known for his job as former Managing Director & Chairman of the Electronic Commerce Association of Finland and Finnish E-Commerce Service Center.\n\nHe has experience in business and trade development since the 1980s. He has also worked as a lecturer and instructor in various universities in the 2000s (decade). He is known to be behind many e-business, related projects and start-ups, and has acted as an advisor to several innovative companies, both in Finland and elsewhere.\n\nCasals has been involved in national and EU-level activities related to e-commerce since 2000. He was Managing Director of the Electronic Commerce Association of Finland from 2002 to 2007, and the Chairman of the association between 2007 - 2011. Casals has also been the co-founder of E-Commerce service center in early 2000.\n\nBetween 2008-2010 he has worked as Director of development at Kainuun Etu Ltd., a Finnish municipal owned provincial business development company for the Kainuun region, and also as the Executive director at IT-Pooli Group, a consortium of 22 ICT companies. Now he is working as CEO at Business Meeting Park Ltd.\n\nCasals spent his youth in Barcelona, Spain. He studied Marketing in the Finnish Business College in the 1980s; and Management, Organization Psychology, Marketing, Environmental Management, Economy, Entrepreneurship and SME Business Management at the Helsinki School of Economics (HSE) in the 1990s. He also studied adult education, social psychology, sociology, philosophy and political science at the University of Helsinki in the 1990s, now (since 2008), the University of Vaasa Business School. He also has several professional qualifications and diplomas.\n\nCasals is married and has a daughter.\n"}
{"id": "58284718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58284718", "title": "List of S&amp;P 1000 companies", "text": "List of S&amp;P 1000 companies\n\nThe S&P 1000 is an index created by Standard & Poor's, a combination of both the mid-cap S&P 400 and small-cap S&P 600 index. Similarly, the Russel 1000 Index tracks the top 1000 companies in the Russel Index, approximately 90% of all market capitalization of US shares. Unlike the S&P 1000, the Russel 1000 does not contain Business Development Companies in its index. The S&P 1000 consists of 1003 mid- and small-cap companies (two classes of stock are under three holding companies each) which have listed ordinary shares. These are commonly traded on American stock exchanges NYSE and NASDAQ. Since the launch of the index in October 28, 1994, it has since produced annualised returns of 17.10% per year as of July 31, 2018. The index is weighted by float-adjusted market capitalization (companies with higher value are relatively weighted more in the index), where public shares are only taken into consideration, excluding promoters' holding, government holding, strategic holding, and other locked-in shares. Periodically, S&P Dow Jones Indices reflects the changes of the S&P 1000 in response to company takeover, or updating the index based on company market capitalization. The information of the 1003 constituents is extracted from Capital IQ, which is an online service by S&P Global that provides real-time financial, technical, and industry data to investment firms, universities, and researchers. Capital IQ offers various features including credit risk analytics, data on public and private company financials, mergers & acquisitions, Excel plug-in and pre-built templates, chart builder, credit ratings, and shareholder analysis.\n\nThe following exchange-traded funds (ETFs) attempt to track this index and sub-indexes:SPDR Portfolio Mid Cap ETF (NYSE Arca: SPMD)\n\nEstablished by State Street Global Advisors in November 8, 2005, SPDR Portfolio Mid Cap ETF is an exchange traded fund that aims to track the performance of S&P 1000 index. As of September 20, 2018, Industrials (16.65%), Financials (16.65%), and Information Technology (16.16%) are the top 3 majority holdings by sector. The top 3 holdings are WellCare Health Plans (0.55%), Fortinet (0.47%), and Jack Henry & Associates (0.46%) respectively. \n\nHoldings By Region \n\nRecord Values\n\nKey Ratios\n\nTrailing Price to Earnings Ratio: 27.6x\n\nPrice to Book Ratio: 2.5x\n\nPrice to Tangible Book Value Ratio: 5.3x\n\n"}
{"id": "40863938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40863938", "title": "Media5-fone", "text": "Media5-fone\n\nMedia5-fone was a VoIP soft phone that uses the Session Initiation Protocol. It is interoperable with most IP PBX systems and Internet telephony service provider. Media5-fone is developed by Media5, a VoIP company based in Sherbrooke.\n\nMedia5-fone has now been withdrawn from service. https://documentation.media5corp.com/display/MOBP/Media5-fone\n\nIt relies on the portable M5T SIP Client Engine (SIP stack). It is currently available on the iOS and Android mobile operating system.\n\nThe first iOS version of Media5-fone was released in June 2009. It was built to run iPhone and iPod devices on iOS 3, a non Multi-tasking operating system. Most IP PBX systems and Internet telephony service provider were compatible with the softclient. After this initial release, multiple features upgrade were made; VPN support, configurable ring-tone, Bluetooth, SIP-URI, and compatibility improvements.\nIn January 2010, Media5-fone was released on the OVI Store for the Nokia Smartphones running the S60 3rd Symbian Operating System. This edition survived a short period of time because of the S60 deprecation.\nIn mid 2010, Apple released iOS 4 and its Multi-tasking support. Media5-fone has since been able to run in the background while another app was in the foreground. This brought the iOS edition of the softclient on even ground with the Symbian OS that already supported Multi-tasking.\nIn February 2011, SRTP, SDES and TLS were added as additional features. In September 2011, Media5-fone was released on the Android Market (today Google Play). Since 2012, minor improvements were made and a new edition (Media5-fone MPS) supporting remote Device Provisioning was released. The MPS has also been made available on the Amazon Appstore with the support of Kindle Fire devices. Media5 Corporation is currentky developing the Media5-RCS app, a VoIP Softclient that supports Rich Communication Services.\n\nMedia5-fone works with Penytel, Maxo and others. A list of preconfigured IP PBX systems and Internet telephony service provider is offered in the application.\n\n"}
{"id": "50066275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50066275", "title": "Mohd Nazifuddin Najib", "text": "Mohd Nazifuddin Najib\n\nMohd Nazifuddin Bin Mohd Najib (born 1985) is a Malaysian businessman, the son of Najib Razak, the former Prime Minister of Malaysia.\n\nHe is the son of Najib Razak and his first wife, Tengku Puteri Zainah Tengku Eskandar (\"Kui Yie\"). He has an older brother, Mohd Nizar Najib and a sister, Puteri Norlisa Najib, as well as two half-siblings from his father's second marriage, Mohd Norashman and Nooryana Najwa.\n\nHe started a degree in computer science at the University of Nottingham, but soon changed to study international business at American Intercontinental University in 2002, where he obtained a bachelor's degree. He then enrolled at Cass Business School at City University.\n\nNazifuddin started his career with UBS Wealth Management Hong Kong and worked there for three years, before starting as an entrepreneur in Malaysia.\n\nNazifuddin is the youngest-ever vice-president of the Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM), when he was appointed in August 2015.\n\nNazifuddin has been named in the Panama Papers, and has responded that he is no longer involved in the two companies involved in the data leak.\n\nNazifuddin further stated, \"I held directorships in two companies based in the British Virgin Islands (BVI): Jay Marriot International and PCJ International Venture Limited. These companies were incorporated by the international law firm Mossack Fonseca,\" and that he had transferred all of his Jay Marriot shares to fellow director Ch'ng Soon Sen's sister and had resigned in 2011, and that PCJ was shut down a year after its 2013 foundation and had had no business transactions.\n"}
{"id": "27509040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27509040", "title": "Moisés Saba", "text": "Moisés Saba\n\nMoises Saba Masri (Mexico City, 1963 - Cuajimalpa, Mexico City, January 10, 2010) was a Jewish (of Syrian extract) Mexican businessman who studied engineering at the Universidad Anahuac in Mexico and came from a family of entrepreneurs present in various sectors.\n\nSince June 1999, he had been CEO of Unefon, a Mexican mobile telephone operator.\n\nHe also belonged to the Board of Directors of many Mexican companies, including Cosmofrecuencias, a provider of wireless broadband Internet, where he served as chief executive. He joined the Board of Directors of several companies within the textile industry and media, was CEO of Textile Industries Ayotla, Alsavisión Group and other private businesses owned by his family. One of its main business was real estate, and in 2006, acquired 5000 sold properties IPAB. \n\nIn 1993, he acquired 50 percent of Televisora Radio Centro, SA de CV, the Mexican government bought TV Azteca, SA of C.V. On television, owned 10 percent of the shares of TV Azteca. He negotiated the deal to buy the soccer team, Veracruz, and in 1996 the soccer team, Morelia. \n\nEcocinemas also operated theaters and had two hotels in Acapulco, the Grand Hotel, and the Crowne Plaza Acapulco. In Israel he had a TV channel. \n\nUntil 1998, he was a member of the Board of Directors Communications Controller Mexicana, SA of C.V. (TV Azteca Group) and Theatres Operating Company, Inc. of C.V. \n\nOn October 18, 2007, he tried alongside Alberto Saba Rafoul, to buy Aeromexico, but the Institute for Bank Savings Protection was declared the winner of a group of businessmen backed by Banamex. \n\nSaba was president of real estate developer of shopping centers, created the concept of building retail space over the subway stations and at bus stops where crowds pass every day, avoiding the difficulty of bringing the consumer shopping, \"we Store customer and the customer to the store \"built in the six stations it operates the suburban train operates. \n\nWon through IUZA estate, contracts for the construction of the whereabouts of Zaragoza, where he planned to develop a large shopping center. \n\nIn August 2008, in an unusual event, won the dispute to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC, for its acronym in English), which withdrew unilaterally and voluntarily requested no charges had been formulated and presented in against him in February 2004 in federal court (having manipulated the stock market on Wall Street in 1999). \n\nOn January 10, 2010, Saba died after his helicopter crashed in Cuajimalpa along with his wife, his son, and his son's wife.\n"}
{"id": "9096236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9096236", "title": "New England Biolabs", "text": "New England Biolabs\n\nNew England Biolabs (NEB) produces and supplies recombinant and native enzyme reagents for the life science research, as well as providing solutions supporting genome editing, synthetic biology and next-generation sequencing. NEB also provides free access to research tools such as REBASE, InBASE, and Polbase.\n\nEstablished in 1974 by Donald Comb, as a cooperative laboratory of experienced scientists, and initially produced restriction enzymes on a commercial scale. The company then began producing solution-oriented products. It received approximately $1.7 million in Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants between 2009 and 2013 for this research. NEB produces 230 recombinant and 30 native restriction enzymes for genomic research, as well as nicking enzymes and DNA methylases. It pursues research in areas related to proteomics, DNA Sequencing, and drug discovery. NEB scientists also conduct basic research in Molecular Biology and Parasitology.\n\nThe company has subsidiaries in Singapore, Canada, China, France, Germany, Japan, and the U.K. and distributors in South America, Australia, and other countries in Europe and Asia. Its headquarters are in Ipswich, MA. Development of the current headquarters began in 2000, and was completed in 2005. Donald Comb served as the company’s Chairman and CEO from the company’s founding in 1974, until 2005. In 2005, he was replaced as chief executive by James Ellard, though Comb remained Chairman. NEB employs about 350 people at its headquarters. As company policy, all scientists and some executives must work at least one day per month on the customer support telephone line, answering technical support questions about the company’s products.\n\nSir Richard John Roberts is the company’s Chief Scientific Officer. He shared the 1993 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine with Phillip Allen Sharp for the discovery of introns in eukaryotic DNA and the mechanism of gene-splicing.\n\nIn 2015, NEB committed to establishing a GMP manufacturing facility near its headquarters in Ipswich, Massachusetts; the aim is to be fully validated and operational by 2017.\n\nThe company runs free scientific databases. REBASE, the restriction enzyme database, contains the details of commercial and research endonucleases. In 2011 the company founded Polbase, an online database which provides information specifically about polymerases. Another free NEB database is InBase, an intein database, which includes the Intein Registry and information about each intein.\n\nIn 2001, NEB co-founded the marine DNA library Ocean Genome Legacy (OGL), which according to the \"Boston Globe\", “catalogues samples of organisms from all over the world, to be made available to scientists for research”. Though originally located on the NEB campus, OGLF relocated to the Nahant campus of Northeastern University in 2014. To enable point-of-use sales of its reagents, NEB created a digital interface for enzyme-housing freezers to be used at customer storage sites, through a partnership with Ionia Corp. and Salesforce.com. The data is used by the company for both sales logistics and as a part of future enzyme research development. It has also partnered with Harvard University on recycling and reclamation initiatives when its products and packaging come to the end of their use or lifecycle. , NEB also had a distribution agreement with VWR.\n\n"}
{"id": "9867713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9867713", "title": "Occupation of factories", "text": "Occupation of factories\n\nOccupation of factories is a method of the workers' movement used to prevent lock outs. They may sometimes lead to \"recovered factories\", in which the workers self-manage the factories.\n\nThey have been used in many strike actions, including:\n\n\nRadical unionism started after the first world war. The movement was a result of increasing internal commissions or \"faculty councils\". Around November 1918, the councils/commissions had morphed into a national problem. By February 1919, the federation of Italian metal workers had successfully received a contract permitting these commissions in their factories. In May 1919, these commissions began to transfer into councils that were managing the factories and were dominating the power structure of said workplaces. The contract also prevented democratic elections of these council members or \"stewards\". In April 1920, at Fiat, there was the beginning of sit-in strikes by the workers, which eventually grew to 500,000 workers striking at its peak.\n\nIn France in January 1936, the PCF, a Stalinist communist organization spurred the creation of a coalition of radicals called the \"popular front\". This organization was designed to defend democracy and disassemble fascist bonds. In May 1936, the popular front won a majority election and assembled a cabinet of eighteen socialist, thirteen radicals and four independent socialist to govern. Communists supported the leaderrLeon Blum but refused to join the cabinet. This change in power was spurred by a massive general strike in the years preceding where thousands of factories had been occupied by French workers to ensure said democratic governance. Blum effectively ended the strike when this government came to power.\n\nDuring a period of civil unrest in France in the 1960s, student protests were joined by factory occupations and strikes by French workers. See May 1968 events in France.\n\nIn the 1960s, a historic movement of strikes and factory occupations had a significant effect on Italy. After constant failure by the government to follow through on promises for reform in Italy, a surge of uprising and strikes occurred between 1968 and 1970. Earlier strikes at northern factories in Turin were successful in gaining momentum in 1962. The Lancia factory walkout was successful in gaining some workers rights. The Michelin Factory strike around the same time had less success. A large strike in Turin however, amassing 93,000 of the Fiat workforce for a massive walkout and intimidation of those who did not participate. After further political negotiation and action through the years that followed, and unsatisfactory changes in policy coupled with increasingly educated and aware workers, the series of massive strikes broke out in 1968. The autumn of 1969 is considered the climax of these strikes and they continued through the early 1970s resulting in significantly improved conditions for Italian workers. In 1973, over 6 million workers were on strike.\n\nThe Upper Clyde Ship Builders are a Scottish shipbuilder consortium that was birthed in 1968 by an adjoining of 5 shipbuilders. It was liquidated in 1971 resulting in occupation/work-in campaign by shop stewards in shipyards. See Upper Clyde Shipbuilders.\n\nThe Harco work-in of 1971 was an occupation by steel plant workers in New South Wales, Australia. The 4-week long work-in was the result of a dispute between Harco owners and workers on company sacking and rehiring practices during low production periods to save money. See 1971 Harco work-in.\n\nDuring 1973, a close of parliament and essential dictatorship by the president created unrest and the leftist union called for a general strike and occupation of factories. After two weeks most of the union leaders were in jail, exile, or dead. See 1973 Uruguayan general strike.\n\nWhen the LIP factory in France decided to close a factory due to financial problems in the late 60s and early 70s, strikes and a very public factory occupation eventually transferred control and management of the factory to the workers. See LIP (company)\n\nDuring the Argentine uprising of the early 2000s, there was a complete takeover of the Zanon tile factory in Argentina. The workers went on strike in the year 2000, the first of a series of strikes that was spurred by the death of a worker from a heart attack. They also were adamant about making their conflicts with the company very public. Workers traveled and occupied places other than factories as well. In January 2001, there was a 6-day strike over unpaid wages. In April 2001, there was a 34-day strike over outstanding wages. These strikes were followed by many other occupations and strikes that ultimately cause the factories to lose almost 50% of their production.\n\nWhen Republic Windows and Doors company was declared bankrupt in December 2008, an organized sit-own strike of 200 workers in the factory occurred to protest federal labor law violations by the company.\n\nA long occupation of the Ssangyong car factory by 900 factory workers and several thousand others began on May 22, 2009 after a list of firings was released by the company that showed over 1000 workers to be laid off. This was the result of the company filing for bankruptcy in February 2009. Workers were essentially sieged by the company during their occupation and workers refused all company negotiations that did not include jobs.\n\n"}
{"id": "3592665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3592665", "title": "Olympics Triplecast", "text": "Olympics Triplecast\n\nThe Olympics Triplecast was an experimental pay-per-view telecast in the United States during the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain. While an ambitious project, it was a massive financial failure.\n\nNBC, which had broadcast rights to the Games, thought that viewers would be willing to pay US$95 to $170 to see events live, which would normally be shown on tape delay on the network in prime time. It partnered with Cablevision, the prominent New York cable provider, to create three channels: Red, White, and Blue. A special three-button remote control with the colors of the channels as the buttons was offered by some cable operators for free as a lure to sign up for the service. Channels aired twelve hours a day (from 5 a.m. to 5 p.m. ET) then repeated their content for the other twelve hours. Programs came from the world feed. As an inducement for people to order the Triplecast, NBC featured star announcers and pundits, such as Chick Hearn for basketball. This was nothing new for NBC as the network employed Vin Scully for its World Series telecasts.\n\n\nSeveral issues plagued the Triplecast.\n\nCable providers took a lower profit cut than they normally do for pay-per-view events. A national center was also set up (1-800-OLYMPIC) to take calls, but it often had trouble telling if a viewer's cable system was participating. In January 1992, for instance, Chuck Dolan, head of Cablevision, tested the ordering system, which could not tell if his Cablevision Long Island system was carrying the Triplecast.\n\nThe biggest issue with \"Triplecast\" was low uptake. NBC estimated two million people would subscribe to the programming. But \"TripleCast\" projections were around 200,000-250,000, and the \"Pay-Per-View Update\" industry newsletter estimated only 125,000. Early reports of slow sales even inspired David Letterman, then still at NBC, to make jokes about the \"Triplecast\". Midway through the games, discounts were applied for one-day service and weekend packages were added. But the attempts to boost subscription largely failed. Another attempt to boost interest was made, by airing a three-way split screen of the \"TripleCast\" channels in hour-long blocks on CNBC, but with no audio.\n\nThe final tally of \"Olympics Triplecast\" subscribers was 200,000. It was enough of a flop that Chuck Dolan was already acknowledging by August 6 that \"the public didn't find enough incremental value for the \"Triplecast\" over what they could get on NBC\" and that \"we blew it from an economic point of view.\" It also surfaced that research figures were enhanced. While one percent of surveyed viewers said they would \"definitely\" buy the \"TripleCast\", that number was enhanced in press materials by adding those who declared they would \"probably\" buy the service.\n\nThe TripleCast service took a very austere, no-frills approach to broadcasting that included play-by-play and commentary, but few graphics and absolutely no feature stories or background vignettes. According to some TripleCast viewers, this made the main NBC coverage seem \"schmaltzy and overproduced\". In addition, NBC's main coverage was denigrated to some extent, with Triplecast viewers knowing some results 10 hours or more before the events were aired on the main network.\n\nOriginal Triplecast advertising promoted that the service was \"live with no interruptions\" — though half of the broadcast day was a repeat. The New York City Consumer Affairs Department charged NBC and Cablevision with deception in advertising as a result. Eventually, the parties settled, with NBC and Cablevision agreeing to clarify the advertising. In addition, about 10 percent of NBC's 205 affiliates refused to run Triplecast advertising because they did not want to promote competition for their broadcast.\n\nEven before the Olympics started, many criticized the business model. On July 16, nine days before the Opening Ceremony, one \"Philadelphia Inquirer\" writer called it \"the biggest marketing disaster since New Coke\". The Triplecast was deemed by \"The New York Times\" \"sports TV's biggest flop\" and that NBC and Cablevision were \"bereft in sanity\" in operating it. By 1994, it was referred to as \"the \"Heaven's Gate\" of television\". Albert Kim, the editor of \"Entertainment Weekly\", went on National Public Radio and called it \"an unmitigated disaster for NBC\". It was a loss of about $100 million (half of which was covered by Cablevision under agreement) for the two parties. It also shaped NBC's strategies in the coverage of future Olympics.\n\nNBC did not use pay-per-view to cover any future games. While NBC alone broadcast the 1996 Summer Olympic Games in the United States, NBC decided to use cable television partners for its subsequent telecasts. CBS, which had the broadcast rights to the 1994 and 1998 Winter Olympic Games, also used a cable partner, TNT.\n\n\nNBC currently holds the U.S. rights to the Olympics through 2032.\n\n"}
{"id": "12481396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12481396", "title": "PROGNOZ", "text": "PROGNOZ\n\nPROGNOZ is a privately held company based in Perm, Russia that develops business software. The company’s software is commonly categorized in the business intelligence or business process management market segments.\n\nIn addition to its headquarters in Perm, PROGNOZ has offices in Beijing, Brussels, Moscow, and Washington. The company name derives from the Russian word for “forecast.”\n\nPROGNOZ was founded as the result of a Soviet-era collaboration between the Russian Academy of Science and the Ministry of the Economy. In 1987, a team of economists and scientists from the Academy’s Institute of Economics gathered at Perm State University to conduct a series of economic forecasting projects for the Ministry. Four years later, after the establishment of the Russian Federation opened the national economy, one of these economists, Dmitry L. Andrianov, founded PROGNOZ to address the need for business software that analyzed and forecast economic information. (Andrianov continues to serve as PROGNOZ’s CEO today). A year later, in 1992, PROGNOZ introduced the PROGNOZ Analytical Suite, a software application for statistical analysis and econometric modeling, and a predecessor to the PROGNOZ 5 Platform. In 2001, PROGNOZ expanded its operations from Perm and opened an office in Moscow. This expansion continued in 2006 with offices in Beijing, Philadelphia, Washington DC, Kiev and other locations.\n\nSince 2012, Gartner, Inc., the world’s leading information technology research and advisory company, has included Prognoz in the Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms* report. Since 2015, Gartner, Inc. has included Prognoz in the Magic Quadrant for Advanced Analytics Platforms** report.\n\nThe company’s main software application is the Prognoz Platform. The Prognoz Platform is a cutting-edge BI platform for building information systems. It can also be used as a standalone product. Prognoz Platform organizes and analyzes business and macroeconomic data, and can create econometric models based on datasets. Most of standard and custom solutions are built on top of this platform.\n\n2015 Magic Quadrant for Business Intelligence and Analytics Platforms\n\nThe largest suppliers of BI-solutions in Russia in 2015 \n\n<nowiki>#</nowiki>1 in Total Supply-Side Revenue on the Custom Application Development Foundation Market in Russia, 2014 according to IDC \n\n"}
{"id": "24970550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24970550", "title": "Patricio Peralta Ramos", "text": "Patricio Peralta Ramos\n\nPatricio Peralta Ramos (May 17, 1814April 25, 1887) was an Argentine businessman and landowner prominent in the foundation of the seaside city of Mar del Plata.\n\nPatricio Peralta Ramos was born in the San Nicolás, a Buenos Aires neighbourhood, in 1814. His father, José de Peralta, was a high-ranking official of the Patricios Regiment. In 1860, he married a distant relative, Cecilia Ramos, with whom he had twelve children.\n\nPeralta Ramos became a large clothing supplier to the Argentine Army during the 1829-52 regime of Governor Juan Manuel de Rosas, of whom Peralta Ramos became an official supporter in 1842. A wealthy man by the time of Rosas' overthrow at the 1852 Battle of Caseros, he traveled in 1860 to the Atlantic Ocean shore, where he purchased over 136,000 hectares (340,000 acres) from Portuguese Consul and entrepreneur José Coelho de Meyrelles, and a meat salting house.\n\nHis beef jerky facility struggling, Peralta Ramos embarked on the initial real estate development of his vast, scenic land. His enterprise met with the resistance of the gentry of Balcarce (then the county seat), though in 1865, he obtained a favorable ruling for the shoreline development from the local Justice of Peace, Juan Peña. Seizing on a discrepancy between Peralta Ramos' holdings and what appeared in the official appraisal, Balcarce founder and Mayor José Chaves nearly forced his adversary to relocate his planned development on marshland, but an 1867 letter in Peralta Ramos' support by neighboring Mar Chiquita Judge José Bernal to Buenos Aires Province official Nicolás Avellaneda settled the dispute in Peralta Ramos' favor.\n\nAdvertising the development as \"Puerto de la Laguna de los Padres,\" the sale of allotments was successful, and in 1873, Peralta Ramos petitioned the province for the seaside hamlet's incorporation, which was granted by Governor Mariano Acosta on February 10, 1874, as \"Puerto Balcarce\". As this nomenclature was assigned over his objections, Peralta Ramos unofficially christened the community \"Mar del Plata\" (in the sense of \"Sea of the River Plate region\").\n\nThe accomplishment was clouded, however, by the death of his wife, Cecilia, in honor of whom Peralta Ramos personally designed and built the Saint Cecilia Chapel; the structure, poignantly, was built by the mourning widower from wooden planks salvaged from a recent wreckage.\n\nBoasting seaside appeal, an iron pier and made self-sufficient by the salting house, as well as by a flour mill, bakery, blacksmith and other establishments, the community prospered. In his later years, Peralta Ramos promoted the hunt of the area's then-vast herds of sea lions, which he termed \"an inexhaustible source of wealth.\"\n\nHe died in Mar del Plata in 1887, and his remains were buried initially at Saint Cecilia chapel and some years later reburied at the La Recoleta Cemetery in Buenos Aires.\n"}
{"id": "36609711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36609711", "title": "Pocket Planes", "text": "Pocket Planes\n\nPocket Planes is a business simulation video game developed by NimbleBit for iOS. It was initially released on June 14, 2012. In October 2012, the game became available on the Mac App Store. An Android version, ported and published by Mobage, was released on September 22, 2012. The game was removed on September 24, 2015 from the Google Play Store but is still available on iOS App Store. The app has also been removed from the U.K. iOS App Store but is still available on the U.S App Store.\n\nIn \"Pocket Planes\", players assume the role of an airline CEO. Starting with a few airports and small planes, players transport small amounts of cargo and passengers short distances. As they slowly gain profit from their flights, they then build more airports, buy better planes, and expand their airline internationally.\n\nA formula determines how much profit will be earned from a flight, depending on the distance, speed and the weight of the plane used on the route. Filling a plane with items or people going to the same destination will net a 25% bonus on each item. Players can also complete events that involve flying special items and people to a designated destination. After completing these events, players are awarded Bux, which are used to buy planes and purchase other perks such as upgrades and the ability to speed up flights.\n\nOn September 24, 2015, the company that ported the game to Android, Mobage, shut down their game servers for Pocket Planes and other NimbleBit games including Pocket Frogs and Tiny Tower, and subsequently removed these downloads from the Google Play Store. There are no plans to bring it back, and the data from the Android game cannot be transferred to the iOS version. NimbleBit has announced that future sequels or a major update may see a re-release for the game to Android.\n\nThe game was viewed favourably by reviewers. It holds a 78/100 score on the aggregate Metacritic, categorising it as \"Generally favorable reviews\" based on 17 reviewers. Gamezebo.com rated it 4.5 stars out of 5, stating \"Nimblebit has once again dropped you in the middle of a universe that feels like it was built just for you, and filled it with a deeper, more compelling mission\".\n\nHowever, Ryan Rigney of \"Wired\" wrote that the player's success did not correlate with skill, and criticises it for a lack of compelling gameplay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27335434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27335434", "title": "RCA open-source application", "text": "RCA open-source application\n\nRCA Open-Source Application (ROSA) is an open-source management accounting application that aims to provide decision support information to managers. Resource consumption accounting (RCA) is a principle-based approach to management accounting that combines German management accounting techniques known as Grenzplankostenrechnung (GPK) with a disciplined form of activity-based costing.\n\nROSA uses resource consumption accounting (RCA) which is internationally recognized as the most robust form of cost management measurement for providing marginal cost analytics.\n\nROSA is classified as a non-web open-source application, bringing many of the key modeling techniques of the RCA model to life. It provides a hands-on approach allowing the user complete interactive modeling capabilities. All the necessary files (databases, applications, manuals, storyboard etc.) as outlined in the bullet points below, have been collected into one compressed downloadable zip folder. The application uses Microsoft Excel as its primary interface, thus the learning curve is greatly accelerated due to the familiarity factor.\n\nIn 2009, it was determined that a hands-on RCA model would be an effective way to demonstrate how RCA works. The ROSA application answers this need, and was designed as an interactive tool to aid in better understanding the principles and costing approach of resource consumption accounting. ROSA should be viewed as a \"cost planning and analysis tool\" and not as a \"pricing/profitability application\".\n\nThe ROSA open-source package contains:\nNote: The Palo BI Suite support material should be used in conjunction with the ROSA Manual where necessary, particularly in areas concerning Palo installation, set-up and operation.\n\nROSA uses the business intelligence (BI) application called Palo. Palo allows the ROSA base model database to be pre-configured so that the user can explore the look and feel of how a RCA model functions.\nSome of the primary features of the RCA open-source application are:\n\n\nThere are certain cost modeling limitations inherent in the ROSA application. These limitations are specific to Version 1.0 of the ROSA application and should not be viewed as static. In other cases, customized versions of ROSA have been developed to fulfill client-specific requests addressing their firm’s individual costing requirements.\n\n\nTo experience the full benefits that Resource Consumption Accounting has to offer as a dynamic, fully integrated, principle-based approach, a more robust and integrated software application must be used. The most widely used software applications for RCA are SAP AG ERP system and macs Controlling.\n\nThis application uses an open-source Business intelligence software engine called Palo (OLAP database), published by Jedox AG. Palo has been designed as an Add-in to spreadsheet software (i.e., Microsoft Excel).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37135373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37135373", "title": "Rolf Bjørn Backe", "text": "Rolf Bjørn Backe\n\nRolf Bjørn Backe (21 November 1934 – 11 September 2012) was a Norwegian footballer, bandy player and business person. He was born in Gjøvik. He became Norwegian cup champion with the club SK Gjøvik-Lyn in 1962, scoring twice in the final. He played 18 matches for the national football team.\n"}
{"id": "47913100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47913100", "title": "Samba Bathily", "text": "Samba Bathily\n\nSamba Bathily is a Malian entrepreneur, philanthropist from Bamako. He is also chief executive officer of “Solektra International” and co-founder of Akon Lighting Africa.\n\nIn 2014, Samba co-founded Akon Lighting Africa. This was launched with international music star Akon and Thione Niang. The objective of this initiative is to bring awareness around the use of solar solutions to provide villages throughout Africa with access to clean, renewable and reliable electricity. To date, results include a series of solar developments such as the installation of street lamps and domestic and community modern renewable energy solutions in 14 countries throughout Africa.\n\nAlso launched in 2014 was Solektra International, a company that specializes in the planning, design, construction and maintenance of solar power systems. Samba is CEO and Co-founder with Akon and Thione Niang. Solektra has a B2G (Business to Government) financing model that offers attractive and affordable repayment terms. Solektra International is the execution arm of Akon Lighting Africa with a goal to use local youths to implement projects while also fast tracking the social and economic development of Africa in cooperation with various international partners. Solektra International currently has a presence in 14 countries - Mali, Senegal, Niger, Benin, Sierra Leone, Burkina-Faso, Guinea, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Congo-Brazzaville, Nigeria, Madagascar, Namibia.\n\nSamba is soon to launch the “Solektra Solar Academy” to provide a pipeline of trained youth where they will develop skills and expertise in the field of solar energy. To be launched late 2015, this professional training institute targets future African entrepreneurs, engineers and technicians and will provide training on aspects of planning, design, construction and the maintenance of solar-powered electric systems and micro-grids.\n"}
{"id": "15726231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15726231", "title": "Scipione Borghese, 10th Prince of Sulmona", "text": "Scipione Borghese, 10th Prince of Sulmona\n\nPrince Luigi Marcantonio Francesco Rodolfo Scipione Borghese, commonly known as Scipione Borghese (11 September 1871, Migliarino – 18 November 1927, Florence), was an Italian aristocrat, industrialist, politician, explorer, mountain climber and racing driver belonging to the House of Borghese.\n\nHe is best known for participating in (and winning) the Peking to Paris race in 1907, accompanied by the journalist Luigi Barzini Sr. and Ettore Guizardi, the prince's chauffeur, who apparently did most of the driving. Nevertheless, before 1907 he had already become known internationally as a traveller, explorer, diplomat and mountain climber. In 1900 he had finished a journey in Asia from Beirut to the Pacific Ocean. His book \"In Asia: Siria, Eufrate, Babilonia\" (In Asia: Syria, Euphrates, Babylon), published in 1903 and which proved a success, describes his journey from Beirut to Basra and the head of the Persian Gulf. Subsequently he also completed a journey across China, recounted in another book.\n\nTall and abstemious, he was a man of few words, cold, with calm and measured manners, and with great self-control. He was a deputy of the Partito Radicale in the Italian parliament of 1904 to 1913, fought bravely in the First World War, and began important improvement works in the \"Agro Romano\".\n\nBorghese was the eldest son of Paolo, 9th Prince of Sulmona (1845–1920) and his wife Ilona, Countess Apponyi de Nagy-Appony. He was twice married, firstly to Anna Maria de Ferrari (23 March 1874 – 25 November 1924), daughter of Gaetano, duca di Ferrari by his wife Maria Annenkov, on 23 May 1895, and they had two daughters. His second marriage to Teodora Martini on 8 August 1926 produced no issue. He was succeeded in the title Prince of Sulmona by his brother Livio Borghese, 11th Prince of Sulmona (1874–1939), second son of the 9th Prince.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12557456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12557456", "title": "Shareholder resolution", "text": "Shareholder resolution\n\nWith respect to public companies in the United States, a shareholder resolution is a proposal submitted by shareholders for a vote at the company's annual meeting. Typically, resolutions are opposed by the corporation's management, hence the insistence for a vote. For publicly held corporations in the United States, the submission and handling of resolutions is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). \n\nShareholders submit resolutions dealing primarily with corporate governance, such as executive compensation, or corporate social responsibility issues, such as global warming, labor relations, tobacco smoking, human rights, and animal welfare.\n\nVirtually all shareholder resolutions are non-binding (or \"precatory,\" to use the legal term of art). In this sense the voting on these resolutions more closely resembles a poll than it does a (binding) referendum or plebiscite. Still, media coverage of voting on shareholder resolutions tends to focus on whether the proposal received a majority of votes, which occurs in a very small but increasing proportion of cases. According to SEC rules, defeated resolutions may be resubmitted only if they pass certain election hurdles (percentage of affirmative votes). \n\nShareholder resolutions have been an important part of activist campaigns in several cases. For example, resolutions were effective at raising public awareness and thereby pressuring corporate management about investments in apartheid South Africa, nuclear power, and labor disputes. Given these results, resolutions have been spearheaded by several coordinating groups, including the AFL-CIO and the Interfaith Center on Corporate Responsibility. Governmental and labor union pension funds also have become involved in supporting and submitting shareholder resolutions.\n\nA shareholder resolution to protest napalm manufacturer Dow Chemical resulted in a U.S. Supreme Court case called SEC v. MEDICAL COMMITTEE FOR HUMAN RIGHTS, 404 U.S. 403 (1972). The court decided that the case was moot due to Dow's agreeing to include the resolution on its proxy statement. The dissent argument by Justice Douglas encourages the SEC to facilitate more shareholder resolutions. \"The philosophy of our times, I think, requires that such [404 U.S. 403, 410] enterprises be held to a higher standard than that of the \"morals of the marketplace\" which exalts a single-minded, myopic determination to maximize profits as the traditional be-all and end-all of corporate concern.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "38080027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38080027", "title": "Siraj Ali", "text": "Siraj Ali\n\nMuhammad Siraj Ali (; born 24 November 1954) is a Bangladeshi-born British restaurateur and philanthropist.\n\nIn 1979, Ali bought the New Curry Centre, in Stanford-le-Hope. At the time Ali's family was the first Bengali family in Thurrock Essex.\n\nAli runs the Maharaja restaurant in South Benfleet, Essex. Since 1991, the restaurant has held charity nights raising close to £2 million for hundreds of charitable causes including; Multiple Sclerosis Society, NSPCC, British Red Cross and Breast Cancer Awareness amongst others. Ali has been involved in the Indian catering industry since the 1970s, with a career spanning 40 years.\n\nAli is the founder chairman of both the Thurrock Bangladesh Welfare Association and the Thurrock Islamic Educational Cultural Centre. He is the general secretary of the Castle Point Bangladeshi Education and Cultural Centre, as well as governor of the Hajji Soyed Ali Primary School and the chairman of the advisory committee of the Essex Bangladesh Welfare Association.\n\nHe is chairman of the Interim Committee Arbitrator and former treasurer of the Balagonj Education Trust, which aims to provide life skills and education to disadvantaged children in Bangladesh. He is also vice-chairman of The Bangladeshi Catering Association (Essex region).\n\nIn 2009, Ali won the Channel S Award for years of charity work in south Essex. In 2011, he was awarded the \"British Bangladeshi Who's Who\" 'Outstanding Contribution' Award for his long standing contribution to the hospitality and catering industry.\n\nIn 2009, Ali was the joint winner of the Bangladesh Caterers Association 'Caterer of the Year' for the South East. In 2015, he was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by \"Curry Life\" magazine.\n\nAli lives in Stanford-le-Hope, Essex. He is married to Begum Momtaj Khanom, and they have one son, Ansar, and three daughters, Shahena (who is a celebrity television chef on The Food Channel) Shareena and Jasmine.\n\nAli has arranged around 200 charity events per year for 20 years, raising around £600 to £1,500 an event. It is estimated that he has helped raise £3 million for charity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56373609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56373609", "title": "Soda Industry Inc.", "text": "Soda Industry Inc.\n\nSoda Industry Inc. (, also called Sodakrom) is a chemical company in Mersin, Turkey producing soda ash and chromium compounds mainly for the glass industry in its parent's group of companies. It is owned and operated by the Şişecam Group.\n\nThe soda plant at is to the west of Kazanlı neighborhood in Akdeniz district of Mersin, southern Turkey.\n\nThe Soda Industry Inc. was established in 1969 as a subsidiary of the Şişecam Group, Turkey's major glass producer. Production of soda ash (sodium carbonate, NaCO), a key raw material for the glass industry, began in 1975.\n\nIn 1979, the Kromsan Chromium Compounds Plant () was founded. It is situated just to the northwest of the Soda Plant. In 1982, it joined the Şişecam Chemicals Group, one of the four main businesses of Şişecam Group. In 1986, Kromsan merged with the Soda Industry company.\n\nBeginning by 1997, Soda Industry began foreign investments. Soda Industry acquired 25% share of the Bulgarian Soda factory Sodi in 1997 and all shares of the Bosnian soda factory Lukavac in 2006 to increase its soda production. In 2011 Soda Industry also acquired the Italian Chromium Products factory Cromital .\nThe Soda Plant and the Kromsan Chromium Compounds Plant produce chemicals, which are used in a variety of industrial and consumer goods such as detergents, leather and pharmaceuticals.\n\nSoda Industry now is the leading producer of chromium compounds and the 4th greatest producer of sodium compounds (such as sodium dichromate (NaCrO), basic chromium sulfate (<nowiki>[</nowiki>Cr(HO)(OH)]SO) and chromic acid (HCrO ) with an annual production of 2.2 million metric tons in Europe. Vitamin K3 and sodium metabisulphite are among the other products.\n"}
{"id": "55608037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55608037", "title": "Synod of Bishops for the Pan-Amazon region", "text": "Synod of Bishops for the Pan-Amazon region\n\nThe Synod of Bishops for the Pan-Amazon region is scheduled to meet in Rome in October 2019. Pope Francis announced on 15 October 2017 that it would work \"to identify new paths for the evangelization of God's people in that region\", specifically the indigenous peoples who are experiencing the destruction and exploitation of their natural environment and live \"often forgotten and without the prospect of a serene future\".\n\nThe obstacles to evangelization include the difficult terrain that makes native populations hard to reach, the great variety of languages spoken, and the resistance of landowners and business interests. The Amazon, according to one Vatican report, covers six million sq.km. with a population of 2.8 million organized into 400 tribes that \"speak some 240 languages belonging to 49 linguistic families\". The Synod defines the region to include all or part of Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Peru, Venezuela, and Surinam, all countries where most of the population is Catholic.\n\nPope John Paul II called similar synods for the Netherlands in 1980 and for Lebanon in 1995.\n\nAs early as 1912, in the encyclical \"Lacrimabili statu\", Pope Pius X denounced the owners of the rubber plantations in Peru for mistreating the native population and condemned Capuchin missionaries for failing to protect them.\n\nVisiting Brazil in July 2013, Pope Francis said: \"The Church's presence in the Amazon Basin is not that of someone with bags packed and ready to leave after having exploited everything possible. The Church has been present in the Amazon Basin from the beginning, in her missionaries, religious congregations, priests, laity and bishops, and she is still present and critical to the area's future.\" Pope Francis' encyclical, \"Laudato si\" (2015), focused on the need to defend of the poor and their natural environment.\n\nSince March 2015, the Pan-Amazon Ecclesial Network (REPAM) has coordinated the work of the Catholic Church in the Amazon region, marshaling the work of priests and missionaries, national representatives of Caritas and lay advocates to protect the both indigenous peoples of the Amazon and the natural resources of the region from exploitation. Archbishop Salvador Pineiro García-Calderón of Ayacucho, President of the Peruvian Bishops' Conference, reported that Pope Francis proposed a synod devoted to the Amazon region in a meeting with the bishops of Peru in May 2017. He mentioned it to the bishops of Ecuador in September 2017.\n\nFrancis visited Peru in January 2018 and was met by 4,000 members of the indigenous communities from the Amazon rainforest. He said that the people of the Amazon were threatened now more than ever, and questioned the conservationist policies that affect the Peruvian rainforest. In Puerto Maldonado, he asked for the indigenous communities to be recognized as partners instead of minorities. He said that \"all the efforts we make in order to regain the life of the peoples of the Amazon will always be too few\". He called on the Peruvian people to put an end to practices that degrade women and criticized the sterilization of indigenous women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21731852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21731852", "title": "Tangible common equity", "text": "Tangible common equity\n\nTangible common equity (TCE) is the subset of shareholders' equity that is not preferred equity and not intangible assets.\n\nTCE is an uncommonly used measure of a company's financial strength. It indicates how much ownership equity owners of common stock would receive in the event of a company's liquidation. During the financial and economic crisis of 2008–2009, it gained public popularity as a measure of the viability of large commercial banks. \n\nTCE, when used in a ratio with tangible common assets, is a measure of a bank's ability to absorb losses (e.g., homeowners defaulting on mortgages) before becoming insolvent. It is one of the factors considered by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency to determine if a bank has become insolvent.\n\n\nOn February 27, 2009, the U.S. Government converted preferred shares to common shares in order to increase Citigroup's tangible common equity. In this example, preferred stock equity is decreased, and total equity remains the same, increasing the TCE.\n\n"}
{"id": "33094374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33094374", "title": "Telecommunication", "text": "Telecommunication\n\nTelecommunication is the transmission of signs, signals, messages, words, writings, images and sounds or information of any nature by wire, radio, optical or electromagnetic systems. Telecommunication occurs when the exchange of information between communication participants includes the use of technology. It is transmitted either electrically over physical media, such as cables, or via electromagnetic radiation. Such transmission paths are often divided into communication channels which afford the advantages of multiplexing. Since the Latin term \"communicatio\" is considered the social process of information exchange, the term telecommunications is often used in its plural form because it involves many different technologies.\n\nEarly means of communicating over a distance included visual signals, such as beacons, smoke signals, semaphore telegraphs, signal flags, and optical heliographs. Other examples of pre-modern long-distance communication included audio messages such as coded drumbeats, lung-blown horns, and loud whistles. 20th- and 21st-century technologies for long-distance communication usually involve electrical and electromagnetic technologies, such as telegraph, telephone, and teleprinter, networks, radio, microwave transmission, fiber optics, and communications satellites.\n\nA revolution in wireless communication began in the first decade of the 20th century with the pioneering developments in radio communications by Guglielmo Marconi, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1909, and other notable pioneering inventors and developers in the field of electrical and electronic telecommunications. These included Charles Wheatstone and Samuel Morse (inventors of the telegraph), Alexander Graham Bell (inventor of the telephone), Edwin Armstrong and Lee de Forest (inventors of radio), as well as Vladimir K. Zworykin, John Logie Baird and Philo Farnsworth (some of the inventors of television).\n\nThe word \"telecommunication\" is a compound of the Greek prefix \"tele\" (τηλε), meaning \"distant\", \"far off\", or \"afar\", and the Latin \"communicare\", meaning \"to share\". Its modern use is adapted from the French, because its written use was recorded in 1904 by the French engineer and novelist Édouard Estaunié. \"Communication\" was first used as an English word in the late 14th century. It comes from Old French comunicacion (14c., Modern French communication), from Latin communicationem (nominative communicatio), noun of action from past participle stem of communicare \"to share, divide out; communicate, impart, inform; join, unite, participate in\", literally \"to make common\", from communis\".\n\nHoming pigeons have occasionally been used throughout history by different cultures. Pigeon post had Persian roots, and was later used by the Romans to aid their military. Frontinus said that Julius Caesar used pigeons as messengers in his conquest of Gaul.\nThe Greeks also conveyed the names of the victors at the Olympic Games to various cities using homing pigeons. In the early 19th century, the Dutch government used the system in Java and Sumatra. And in 1849, Paul Julius Reuter started a pigeon service to fly stock prices between Aachen and Brussels, a service that operated for a year until the gap in the telegraph link was closed.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, chains of beacons were commonly used on hilltops as a means of relaying a signal. Beacon chains suffered the drawback that they could only pass a single bit of information, so the meaning of the message such as \"the enemy has been sighted\" had to be agreed upon in advance. One notable instance of their use was during the Spanish Armada, when a beacon chain relayed a signal from Plymouth to London.\n\nIn 1792, Claude Chappe, a French engineer, built the first fixed visual telegraphy system (or semaphore line) between Lille and Paris. However semaphore suffered from the need for skilled operators and expensive towers at intervals of ten to thirty kilometres (six to nineteen miles). As a result of competition from the electrical telegraph, the last commercial line was abandoned in 1880.\n\nOn 25 July 1837 the first commercial electrical telegraph was demonstrated by English inventor Sir William Fothergill Cooke, and English scientist Sir Charles Wheatstone. Both inventors viewed their device as \"an improvement to the [existing] electromagnetic telegraph\" not as a new device.\n\nSamuel Morse independently developed a version of the electrical telegraph that he unsuccessfully demonstrated on 2 September 1837. His code was an important advance over Wheatstone's signaling method. The first transatlantic telegraph cable was successfully completed on 27 July 1866, allowing transatlantic telecommunication for the first time.\n\nThe conventional telephone was invented independently by Alexander Bell and Elisha Gray in 1876. Antonio Meucci invented the first device that allowed the electrical transmission of voice over a line in 1849. However Meucci's device was of little practical value because it relied upon the electrophonic effect and thus required users to place the receiver in their mouth to \"hear\" what was being said. The first commercial telephone services were set-up in 1878 and 1879 on both sides of the Atlantic in the cities of New Haven and London.\n\nStarting in 1894, Italian inventor Guglielmo Marconi began developing a wireless communication using the then newly discovered phenomenon of radio waves, showing by 1901 that they could be transmitted across the Atlantic Ocean. This was the start of wireless telegraphy by radio. Voice and music were demonstrated in 1900 and 1906, but had little early success. World War I accelerated the development of radio for military communications. After the war, commercial radio AM broadcasting began in the 1920s and became an important mass medium for entertainment and news. World War II again accelerated development of radio for the wartime purposes of aircraft and land communication, radio navigation and radar. Development of stereo FM broadcasting of radio took place from the 1930s on-wards in the United States and displaced AM as the dominant commercial standard by the 1960s, and by the 1970s in the United Kingdom. \n\nOn 25 March 1925, John Logie Baird was able to demonstrate the transmission of moving pictures at the London department store Selfridges. Baird's device relied upon the Nipkow disk and thus became known as the mechanical television. It formed the basis of experimental broadcasts done by the British Broadcasting Corporation beginning 30 September 1929. However, for most of the twentieth century televisions depended upon the cathode ray tube invented by Karl Braun. The first version of such a television to show promise was produced by Philo Farnsworth and demonstrated to his family on 7 September 1927. After World War II, the experiments in television that had been interrupted were resumed, and it also became an important home entertainment broadcast medium.\n\nOn 11 September 1940, George Stibitz transmitted problems for his Complex Number Calculator in New York using a teletype, and received the computed results back at Dartmouth College in New Hampshire. This configuration of a centralized computer (mainframe) with remote dumb terminals remained popular well into the 1970s. However, already in the 1960s, researchers started to investigate packet switching, a technology that sends a message in portions to its destination asynchronously without passing it through a centralized mainframe. A four-node network emerged on 5 December 1969, constituting the beginnings of the ARPANET, which by 1981 had grown to 213 nodes. ARPANET eventually merged with other networks to form the Internet. While Internet development was a focus of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) who published a series of Request for Comment documents, other networking advancement occurred in industrial laboratories, such as the local area network (LAN) developments of Ethernet (1983) and the token ring protocol (1984).\n\nModern telecommunication is founded on a series of key concepts that experienced progressive development and refinement in a period of well over a century.\n\nTelecommunication technologies may primarily be divided into wired and wireless methods. Overall though, a basic telecommunication system consists of three main parts that are always present in some form or another:\n\nFor example, in a radio broadcasting station the station's large power amplifier is the transmitter; and the broadcasting antenna is the interface between the power amplifier and the \"free space channel\". The free space channel is the transmission medium; and the receiver's antenna is the interface between the free space channel and the receiver. Next, the radio receiver is the destination of the radio signal, and this is where it is converted from electricity to sound for people to listen to.\n\nSometimes, telecommunication systems are \"duplex\" (two-way systems) with a single box of electronics working as both the transmitter and a receiver, or a \"transceiver\". For example, a cellular telephone is a transceiver. The transmission electronics and the receiver electronics within a transceiver are actually quite independent of each other. This can be readily explained by the fact that radio transmitters contain power amplifiers that operate with electrical powers measured in watts or kilowatts, but radio receivers deal with radio powers that are measured in the microwatts or nanowatts. Hence, transceivers have to be carefully designed and built to isolate their high-power circuitry and their low-power circuitry from each other, as to not cause interference.\n\nTelecommunication over fixed lines is called point-to-point communication because it is between one transmitter and one receiver. Telecommunication through radio broadcasts is called broadcast communication because it is between one powerful transmitter and numerous low-power but sensitive radio receivers.\n\nTelecommunications in which multiple transmitters and multiple receivers have been designed to cooperate and to share the same physical channel are called multiplex systems. The sharing of physical channels using multiplexing often gives very large reductions in costs. Multiplexed systems are laid out in telecommunication networks, and the multiplexed signals are switched at nodes through to the correct destination terminal receiver.\n\nCommunications signals can be sent either by analog signals or digital signals. There are analog communication systems and digital communication systems. For an analog signal, the signal is varied continuously with respect to the information. In a digital signal, the information is encoded as a set of discrete values (for example, a set of ones and zeros). During the propagation and reception, the information contained in analog signals will inevitably be degraded by undesirable physical noise. (The output of a transmitter is noise-free for all practical purposes.) Commonly, the noise in a communication system can be expressed as adding or subtracting from the desirable signal in a completely random way. This form of noise is called additive noise, with the understanding that the noise can be negative or positive at different instants of time. Noise that is not additive noise is a much more difficult situation to describe or analyze, and these other kinds of noise will be omitted here.\n\nOn the other hand, unless the additive noise disturbance exceeds a certain threshold, the information contained in digital signals will remain intact. Their resistance to noise represents a key advantage of digital signals over analog signals.\n\nA telecommunications network is a collection of transmitters, receivers, and communications channels that send messages to one another. Some digital communications networks contain one or more routers that work together to transmit information to the correct user. An analog communications network consists of one or more switches that establish a connection between two or more users. For both types of network, repeaters may be necessary to amplify or recreate the signal when it is being transmitted over long distances. This is to combat attenuation that can render the signal indistinguishable from the noise.\nAnother advantage of digital systems over analog is that their output is easier to store in memory, i.e. two voltage states (high and low) are easier to store than a continuous range of states.\n\nThe term \"channel\" has two different meanings. In one meaning, a channel is the physical medium that carries a signal between the transmitter and the receiver. Examples of this include the atmosphere for sound communications, glass optical fibers for some kinds of optical communications, coaxial cables for communications by way of the voltages and electric currents in them, and free space for communications using visible light, infrared waves, ultraviolet light, and radio waves. Coaxial cable types are classified by RG type or \"radio guide\", terminology derived from World War II. The various RG designations are used to classify the specific signal transmission applications. This last channel is called the \"free space channel\". The sending of radio waves from one place to another has nothing to do with the presence or absence of an atmosphere between the two. Radio waves travel through a perfect vacuum just as easily as they travel through air, fog, clouds, or any other kind of gas.\n\nThe other meaning of the term \"channel\" in telecommunications is seen in the phrase communications channel, which is a subdivision of a transmission medium so that it can be used to send multiple streams of information simultaneously. For example, one radio station can broadcast radio waves into free space at frequencies in the neighborhood of 94.5 MHz (megahertz) while another radio station can simultaneously broadcast radio waves at frequencies in the neighborhood of 96.1 MHz. Each radio station would transmit radio waves over a frequency bandwidth of about 180 kHz (kilohertz), centered at frequencies such as the above, which are called the \"carrier frequencies\". Each station in this example is separated from its adjacent stations by 200 kHz, and the difference between 200 kHz and 180 kHz (20 kHz) is an engineering allowance for the imperfections in the communication system.\n\nIn the example above, the \"free space channel\" has been divided into communications channels according to frequencies, and each channel is assigned a separate frequency bandwidth in which to broadcast radio waves. This system of dividing the medium into channels according to frequency is called \"frequency-division multiplexing\". Another term for the same concept is \"wavelength-division multiplexing\", which is more commonly used in optical communications when multiple transmitters share the same physical medium.\n\nAnother way of dividing a communications medium into channels is to allocate each sender a recurring segment of time (a \"time slot\", for example, 20 milliseconds out of each second), and to allow each sender to send messages only within its own time slot. This method of dividing the medium into communication channels is called \"time-division multiplexing\" (TDM), and is used in optical fiber communication. Some radio communication systems use TDM within an allocated FDM channel. Hence, these systems use a hybrid of TDM and FDM.\n\nThe shaping of a signal to convey information is known as modulation. Modulation can be used to represent a digital message as an analog waveform. This is commonly called \"keying\" – a term derived from the older use of Morse Code in telecommunications – and several keying techniques exist (these include phase-shift keying, frequency-shift keying, and amplitude-shift keying). The \"Bluetooth\" system, for example, uses phase-shift keying to exchange information between various devices. In addition, there are combinations of phase-shift keying and amplitude-shift keying which is called (in the jargon of the field) \"quadrature amplitude modulation\" (QAM) that are used in high-capacity digital radio communication systems.\n\nModulation can also be used to transmit the information of low-frequency analog signals at higher frequencies. This is helpful because low-frequency analog signals cannot be effectively transmitted over free space. Hence the information from a low-frequency analog signal must be impressed into a higher-frequency signal (known as the \"carrier wave\") before transmission. There are several different modulation schemes available to achieve this [two of the most basic being amplitude modulation (AM) and frequency modulation (FM)]. An example of this process is a disc jockey's voice being impressed into a 96 MHz carrier wave using frequency modulation (the voice would then be received on a radio as the channel \"96 FM\"). In addition, modulation has the advantage that it may use frequency division multiplexing (FDM).\n\nTelecommunication has a significant social, cultural and economic impact on modern society. In 2008, estimates placed the telecommunication industry's revenue at $4.7 trillion or just under 3 percent of the gross world product (official exchange rate). Several following sections discuss the impact of telecommunication on society.\n\nOn the microeconomic scale, companies have used telecommunications to help build global business empires. This is self-evident in the case of online retailer Amazon.com but, according to academic Edward Lenert, even the conventional retailer Walmart has benefited from better telecommunication infrastructure compared to its competitors. In cities throughout the world, home owners use their telephones to order and arrange a variety of home services ranging from pizza deliveries to electricians. Even relatively poor communities have been noted to use telecommunication to their advantage. In Bangladesh's Narshingdi district, isolated villagers use cellular phones to speak directly to wholesalers and arrange a better price for their goods. In Côte d'Ivoire, coffee growers share mobile phones to follow hourly variations in coffee prices and sell at the best price.\n\nOn the macroeconomic scale, Lars-Hendrik Röller and Leonard Waverman suggested a causal link between good telecommunication infrastructure and economic growth. Few dispute the existence of a correlation although some argue it is wrong to view the relationship as causal.\n\nBecause of the economic benefits of good telecommunication infrastructure, there is increasing worry about the inequitable access to telecommunication services amongst various countries of the world—this is known as the digital divide. A 2003 survey by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) revealed that roughly a third of countries have fewer than one mobile subscription for every 20 people and one-third of countries have fewer than one land-line telephone subscription for every 20 people. In terms of Internet access, roughly half of all countries have fewer than one out of 20 people with Internet access. From this information, as well as educational data, the ITU was able to compile an index that measures the overall ability of citizens to access and use information and communication technologies. Using this measure, Sweden, Denmark and Iceland received the highest ranking while the African countries Nigeria, Burkina Faso and Mali received the lowest.\n\nTelecommunication has played a significant role in social relationships. Nevertheless, devices like the telephone system were originally advertised with an emphasis on the practical dimensions of the device (such as the ability to conduct business or order home services) as opposed to the social dimensions. It was not until the late 1920s and 1930s that the social dimensions of the device became a prominent theme in telephone advertisements. New promotions started appealing to consumers' emotions, stressing the importance of social conversations and staying connected to family and friends.\n\nSince then the role that telecommunications has played in social relations has become increasingly important. In recent years, the popularity of social networking sites has increased dramatically. These sites allow users to communicate with each other as well as post photographs, events and profiles for others to see. The profiles can list a person's age, interests, sexual preference and relationship status. In this way, these sites can play important role in everything from organising social engagements to courtship.\n\nPrior to social networking sites, technologies like short message service (SMS) and the telephone also had a significant impact on social interactions. In 2000, market research group Ipsos MORI reported that 81% of 15- to 24-year-old SMS users in the United Kingdom had used the service to coordinate social arrangements and 42% to flirt.\n\nIn cultural terms, telecommunication has increased the public's ability to access music and film. With television, people can watch films they have not seen before in their own home without having to travel to the video store or cinema. With radio and the Internet, people can listen to music they have not heard before without having to travel to the music store.\n\nTelecommunication has also transformed the way people receive their news. A 2006 survey (right table) of slightly more than 3,000 Americans by the non-profit Pew Internet and American Life Project in the United States the majority specified television or radio over newspapers. \n\nTelecommunication has had an equally significant impact on advertising. TNS Media Intelligence reported that in 2007, 58% of advertising expenditure in the United States was spent on media that depend upon telecommunication.\n\nMany countries have enacted legislation which conforms to the \"International Telecommunication Regulations\" established by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), which is the \"leading UN agency for information and communication technology issues.\" In 1947, at the Atlantic City Conference, the ITU decided to \"afford international protection to all frequencies registered in a new international frequency list and used in conformity with the Radio Regulation.\" According to the ITU's \"Radio Regulations\" adopted in Atlantic City, all frequencies referenced in the \"International Frequency Registration Board\", examined by the board and registered on the \"International Frequency List\" \"shall have the right to international protection from harmful interference.\"\n\nFrom a global perspective, there have been political debates and legislation regarding the management of telecommunication and broadcasting. The history of broadcasting discusses some debates in relation to balancing conventional communication such as printing and telecommunication such as radio broadcasting. The onset of World War II brought on the first explosion of international broadcasting propaganda. Countries, their governments, insurgents, terrorists, and militiamen have all used telecommunication and broadcasting techniques to promote propaganda. Patriotic propaganda for political movements and colonization started the mid-1930s. In 1936, the BBC broadcast propaganda to the Arab World to partly counter similar broadcasts from Italy, which also had colonial interests in North Africa.\n\nModern insurgents, such as those in the latest Iraq War, often use intimidating telephone calls, SMSs and the distribution of sophisticated videos of an attack on coalition troops within hours of the operation. \"The Sunni insurgents even have their own television station, Al-Zawraa, which while banned by the Iraqi government, still broadcasts from Erbil, Iraqi Kurdistan, even as coalition pressure has forced it to switch satellite hosts several times.\"\n\nOn 10 November 2014, President Obama recommended the Federal Communications Commission reclassify broadband Internet service as a telecommunications service to preserve net neutrality.\n\nAccording to data collected by Gartner and Ars Technica sales of main consumer's telecommunication equipment worldwide in millions of units was:\nIn a telephone network, the caller is connected to the person they want to talk to by switches at various telephone exchanges. The switches form an electrical connection between the two users and the setting of these switches is determined electronically when the caller dials the number. Once the connection is made, the caller's voice is transformed to an electrical signal using a small microphone in the caller's handset. This electrical signal is then sent through the network to the user at the other end where it is transformed back into sound by a small speaker in that person's handset.\n\nThe landline telephones in most residential homes are analog—that is, the speaker's voice directly determines the signal's voltage. Although short-distance calls may be handled from end-to-end as analog signals, increasingly telephone service providers are transparently converting the signals to digital signals for transmission. The advantage of this is that digitized voice data can travel side-by-side with data from the Internet and can be perfectly reproduced in long distance communication (as opposed to analog signals that are inevitably impacted by noise).\n\nMobile phones have had a significant impact on telephone networks. Mobile phone subscriptions now outnumber fixed-line subscriptions in many markets. Sales of mobile phones in 2005 totalled 816.6 million with that figure being almost equally shared amongst the markets of Asia/Pacific (204 m), Western Europe (164 m), CEMEA (Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa) (153.5 m), North America (148 m) and Latin America (102 m). In terms of new subscriptions over the five years from 1999, Africa has outpaced other markets with 58.2% growth. Increasingly these phones are being serviced by systems where the voice content is transmitted digitally such as GSM or W-CDMA with many markets choosing to deprecate analog systems such as AMPS.\n\nThere have also been dramatic changes in telephone communication behind the scenes. Starting with the operation of TAT-8 in 1988, the 1990s saw the widespread adoption of systems based on optical fibers. The benefit of communicating with optic fibers is that they offer a drastic increase in data capacity. TAT-8 itself was able to carry 10 times as many telephone calls as the last copper cable laid at that time and today's optic fibre cables are able to carry 25 times as many telephone calls as TAT-8. This increase in data capacity is due to several factors: First, optic fibres are physically much smaller than competing technologies. Second, they do not suffer from crosstalk which means several hundred of them can be easily bundled together in a single cable. Lastly, improvements in multiplexing have led to an exponential growth in the data capacity of a single fibre.\n\nAssisting communication across many modern optic fibre networks is a protocol known as Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM). The ATM protocol allows for the side-by-side data transmission mentioned in the second paragraph. It is suitable for public telephone networks because it establishes a pathway for data through the network and associates a traffic contract with that pathway. The traffic contract is essentially an agreement between the client and the network about how the network is to handle the data; if the network cannot meet the conditions of the traffic contract it does not accept the connection. This is important because telephone calls can negotiate a contract so as to guarantee themselves a constant bit rate, something that will ensure a caller's voice is not delayed in parts or cut off completely. There are competitors to ATM, such as Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS), that perform a similar task and are expected to supplant ATM in the future.\n\nIn a broadcast system, the central high-powered broadcast tower transmits a high-frequency electromagnetic wave to numerous low-powered receivers. The high-frequency wave sent by the tower is modulated with a signal containing visual or audio information. The receiver is then tuned so as to pick up the high-frequency wave and a demodulator is used to retrieve the signal containing the visual or audio information. The broadcast signal can be either analog (signal is varied continuously with respect to the information) or digital (information is encoded as a set of discrete values).\n\nThe broadcast media industry is at a critical turning point in its development, with many countries moving from analog to digital broadcasts. This move is made possible by the production of cheaper, faster and more capable integrated circuits. The chief advantage of digital broadcasts is that they prevent a number of complaints common to traditional analog broadcasts. For television, this includes the elimination of problems such as snowy pictures, ghosting and other distortion. These occur because of the nature of analog transmission, which means that perturbations due to noise will be evident in the final output. Digital transmission overcomes this problem because digital signals are reduced to discrete values upon reception and hence small perturbations do not affect the final output. In a simplified example, if a binary message 1011 was transmitted with signal amplitudes [1.0 0.0 1.0 1.0] and received with signal amplitudes [0.9 0.2 1.1 0.9] it would still decode to the binary message 1011 – a perfect reproduction of what was sent. From this example, a problem with digital transmissions can also be seen in that if the noise is great enough it can significantly alter the decoded message. Using forward error correction a receiver can correct a handful of bit errors in the resulting message but too much noise will lead to incomprehensible output and hence a breakdown of the transmission.\n\nIn digital television broadcasting, there are three competing standards that are likely to be adopted worldwide. These are the ATSC, DVB and ISDB standards; the adoption of these standards thus far is presented in the captioned map. All three standards use MPEG-2 for video compression. ATSC uses Dolby Digital AC-3 for audio compression, ISDB uses Advanced Audio Coding (MPEG-2 Part 7) and DVB has no standard for audio compression but typically uses MPEG-1 Part 3 Layer 2. The choice of modulation also varies between the schemes. In digital audio broadcasting, standards are much more unified with practically all countries choosing to adopt the Digital Audio Broadcasting standard (also known as the Eureka 147 standard). The exception is the United States which has chosen to adopt HD Radio. HD Radio, unlike Eureka 147, is based upon a transmission method known as in-band on-channel transmission that allows digital information to \"piggyback\" on normal AM or FM analog transmissions. \n\nHowever, despite the pending switch to digital, analog television remains being transmitted in most countries. An exception is the United States that ended analog television transmission (by all but the very low-power TV stations) on 12 June 2009 after twice delaying the switchover deadline. Kenya also ended analog television transmission in December 2014 after multiple delays. For analog television, there were three standards in use for broadcasting color TV (see a map on adoption ). These are known as PAL (German designed), NTSC (American designed), and SECAM (French designed). For analog radio, the switch to digital radio is made more difficult by the higher cost of digital receivers. The choice of modulation for analog radio is typically between amplitude (AM) or frequency modulation (FM). To achieve stereo playback, an amplitude modulated subcarrier is used for stereo FM, and quadrature amplitude modulation is used for stereo AM or C-QUAM.\n\nThe Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks that communicate with each other using the Internet Protocol (IP). Any computer on the Internet has a unique IP address that can be used by other computers to route information to it. Hence, any computer on the Internet can send a message to any other computer using its IP address. These messages carry with them the originating computer's IP address allowing for two-way communication. The Internet is thus an exchange of messages between computers.\n\nIt is estimated that 51% of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 2000 were flowing through the Internet (most of the rest (42%) through the landline telephone). By the year 2007 the Internet clearly dominated and captured 97% of all the information in telecommunication networks (most of the rest (2%) through mobile phones). , an estimated 21.9% of the world population has access to the Internet with the highest access rates (measured as a percentage of the population) in North America (73.6%), Oceania/Australia (59.5%) and Europe (48.1%). In terms of broadband access, Iceland (26.7%), South Korea (25.4%) and the Netherlands (25.3%) led the world.\n\nThe Internet works in part because of protocols that govern how the computers and routers communicate with each other. The nature of computer network communication lends itself to a layered approach where individual protocols in the protocol stack run more-or-less independently of other protocols. This allows lower-level protocols to be customized for the network situation while not changing the way higher-level protocols operate. A practical example of why this is important is because it allows an Internet browser to run the same code regardless of whether the computer it is running on is connected to the Internet through an Ethernet or Wi-Fi connection. Protocols are often talked about in terms of their place in the OSI reference model (pictured on the right), which emerged in 1983 as the first step in an unsuccessful attempt to build a universally adopted networking protocol suite.\n\nFor the Internet, the physical medium and data link protocol can vary several times as packets traverse the globe. This is because the Internet places no constraints on what physical medium or data link protocol is used. This leads to the adoption of media and protocols that best suit the local network situation. In practice, most intercontinental communication will use the Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) protocol (or a modern equivalent) on top of optic fiber. This is because for most intercontinental communication the Internet shares the same infrastructure as the public switched telephone network.\n\nAt the network layer, things become standardized with the Internet Protocol (IP) being adopted for logical addressing. For the World Wide Web, these \"IP addresses\" are derived from the human readable form using the Domain Name System (e.g. 72.14.207.99 is derived from www.google.com). At the moment, the most widely used version of the Internet Protocol is version four but a move to version six is imminent. \n\nAt the transport layer, most communication adopts either the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or the User Datagram Protocol (UDP). TCP is used when it is essential every message sent is received by the other computer whereas UDP is used when it is merely desirable. With TCP, packets are retransmitted if they are lost and placed in order before they are presented to higher layers. With UDP, packets are not ordered or retransmitted if lost. Both TCP and UDP packets carry port numbers with them to specify what application or process the packet should be handled by. Because certain application-level protocols use certain ports, network administrators can manipulate traffic to suit particular requirements. Examples are to restrict Internet access by blocking the traffic destined for a particular port or to affect the performance of certain applications by assigning priority.\n\nAbove the transport layer, there are certain protocols that are sometimes used and loosely fit in the session and presentation layers, most notably the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocols. These protocols ensure that data transferred between two parties remains completely confidential. Finally, at the application layer, are many of the protocols Internet users would be familiar with such as HTTP (web browsing), POP3 (e-mail), FTP (file transfer), IRC (Internet chat), BitTorrent (file sharing) and XMPP (instant messaging).\n\nVoice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) allows data packets to be used for synchronous voice communications. The data packets are marked as voice type packets and can be prioritized by the network administrators so that the real-time, synchronous conversation is less subject to contention with other types of data traffic which can be delayed (i.e. file transfer or email) or buffered in advance (i.e. audio and video) without detriment. That prioritization is fine when the network has sufficient capacity for all the VoIP calls taking place at the same time and the network is enabled for prioritization i.e. a private corporate style network, but the Internet is not generally managed in this way and so there can be a big difference in the quality of VoIP calls over a private network and over the public Internet.\n\nDespite the growth of the Internet, the characteristics of local area networks (LANs)--computer networks that do not extend beyond a few kilometers—remain distinct. This is because networks on this scale do not require all the features associated with larger networks and are often more cost-effective and efficient without them. When they are not connected with the Internet, they also have the advantages of privacy and security. However, purposefully lacking a direct connection to the Internet does not provide assured protection from hackers, military forces, or economic powers. These threats exist if there are any methods for connecting remotely to the LAN.\n\nWide area networks (WANs) are private computer networks that may extend for thousands of kilometers. Once again, some of their advantages include privacy and security. Prime users of private LANs and WANs include armed forces and intelligence agencies that must keep their information secure and secret.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, several sets of communication protocols emerged to fill the gaps between the data-link layer and the application layer of the OSI reference model. These included Appletalk, IPX, and NetBIOS with the dominant protocol set during the early 1990s being IPX due to its popularity with MS-DOS users. TCP/IP existed at this point, but it was typically only used by large government and research facilities.\n\nAs the Internet grew in popularity and its traffic was required to be routed into private networks, the TCP/IP protocols replaced existing local area network technologies. Additional technologies, such as DHCP, allowed TCP/IP-based computers to self-configure in the network. Such functions also existed in the AppleTalk/ IPX/ NetBIOS protocol sets.\n\nWhereas Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) or Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) are typical data-link protocols for larger networks such as WANs; Ethernet and Token Ring are typical data-link protocols for LANs. These protocols differ from the former protocols in that they are simpler, e.g., they omit features such as quality of service guarantees, and offer collision prevention. Both of these differences allow for more economical systems.\n\nDespite the modest popularity of IBM Token Ring in the 1980s and 1990s, virtually all LANs now use either wired or wireless Ethernet facilities. At the physical layer, most wired Ethernet implementations use copper twisted-pair cables (including the common 10BASE-T networks). However, some early implementations used heavier coaxial cables and some recent implementations (especially high-speed ones) use optical fibers. When optic fibers are used, the distinction must be made between multimode fibers and single-mode fibers. Multimode fibers can be thought of as thicker optical fibers that are cheaper to manufacture devices for, but that suffers from less usable bandwidth and worse attenuation – implying poorer long-distance performance.\n\nThe effective capacity to exchange information worldwide through two-way telecommunication networks grew from 281 petabytes of (optimally compressed) information in 1986, to 471 petabytes in 1993, to 2.2 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2000, and to 65 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007. This is the informational equivalent of two newspaper pages per person per day in 1986, and six entire newspapers per person per day by 2007. Given this growth, telecommunications play an increasingly important role in the world economy and the global telecommunications industry was about a $4.7 trillion sector in 2012. The service revenue of the global telecommunications industry was estimated to be $1.5 trillion in 2010, corresponding to 2.4% of the world's gross domestic product (GDP).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1147873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1147873", "title": "Vedomosti", "text": "Vedomosti\n\nVedomosti (, \"The Record\") is a Russian-language business daily published in Moscow. It was previously a joint venture between Dow Jones, the \"Financial Times\" and the publishers of \"The Moscow Times.\" The \"Financial Times\" and the \"Wall Street Journal\" sold their stakes in 2015, ahead of a new Russian media ownership law prohibiting foreign enterprises from owning more than 20% of stake in Russian media companies which came into effect in 2016. Sanoma also sold its stake in the paper in 2015. The paper is now owned by Demyan Kudryavtsev, who also owns \"The Moscow Times\", and was previously chief executive of \"Kommersant\".\n"}
{"id": "33416160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416160", "title": "We the People (petitioning system)", "text": "We the People (petitioning system)\n\nWe the People, launched September 22, 2011, was a section of the whitehouse.gov website (under President Barack Obama) for petitioning the administration's policy experts. Petitions that met a certain threshold of signatures were typically reviewed by Administration officials who prepared and issued official responses, however, this was not always the case. Criminal justice proceedings in the United States and other processes of the federal government are not subject to White House website petitions. We the People, rather, served as a public relations device for the Obama administration to provide a venue for citizens to express themselves. On August 23, 2012, the White House Director of Digital Strategy Macon Phillips released the source code for the platform. The source code is available on GitHub, and lists both public domain status as a work of the U.S. federal government and licensing under the GPL v2. On December 19, 2017, the Trump administration announced its intention to shut down the website and replace it with a \"new platform would save taxpayers more than $1m a year.\" As of May 2018, the site is operating as it was before it shut down.\n\nUsers who wish to create a petition are required to register a free whitehouse.gov account. To sign a petition, users only need to provide their name and their email address, and they will receive an email with a link that they must click to confirm their signature. It is not necessary to have a whitehouse.gov account to sign a petition.\n\nUnder the Obama administration's rules, a petition had to reach 150 signatures (Dunbar's Number) within 30 days to be searchable on WhiteHouse.gov, according to Tom Cochran, former director of digital technology. It had to reach 100,000 signatures within 30 days to receive an official response. The original threshold was set at 5,000 signatures on September 1, 2011, was raised to 25,000 on October 3, 2011, and raised again to 100,000 as of January 15, 2013. The White House typically would not comment when a petition concerned an ongoing investigation.\n\n\"It's unclear whether Trump's advisors will make a tradition of publicly responding to petitions from the American people,\" Dell Cameron wrote for the Daily Dot on the day that Trump was inaugurated, noting that the Trump administration that same day \"archived\" (that is, deactivated) all petitions in progress on the 'We the People' site. New petitions were created, but only two petitions—both created on Inauguration Day—soared above the 100,000-signature threshold within the Trump administration's first week, while other petitions created subsequently seemed not to count signatures at all. The website was later fixed to count signatures but the Trump administration did not respond to any of the petitions until March 2018.\n\nIn November 2012, a petition was created urging the government to create a Death Star as an economic stimulus and job creation measure gained more than 25,000 signatures, enough to qualify for an official response. The official (tongue-in-cheek) response released in January 2013 noted that the cost of building a real Death Star has been estimated at $852 quadrillion and at current rates of steel production, would not be ready for more than 833,000 years. The response also noted that \"the Administration does not support blowing up planets\" and questions funding a weapon \"with a fundamental flaw that can be exploited by a one-man starship\" as reasons for denying the petition.\n\nFollowing the spree shooting in Newtown, Connecticut on December 14, 2012, a petition for new gun-control measures achieved 100,000 signatures within 24 hours.\n\nIn February 2013, a petition started by OpenSignal co-founder and digital rights activist Sina Khanifar reached the 100,000-signature threshold required for a response from the White House. Two weeks later, the Obama administration issued a response urging the FCC and Congress to take and legalize cell phone unlocking. A year later, Congress passed the Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act, the first piece of legislation driven by an online petition. The bill was signed into law by President Obama on August 1, 2014.\n\nIn March 2015, as the United States and the P5+1 group were negotiating with Iran on an agreement to restrain Iran's nuclear program, 47 Republican Senators sent an open letter to the leaders of Iran strongly suggesting that a future president or Congress could nullify any such agreement. This action was widely construed as deliberate interference with the negotiations, and possibly a violation of the Logan Act. In response, several similar petitions were posted on March 9, 2015. One petition, entitled \"File charges against the 47 U.S. Senators in violation of the Logan Act in attempting to undermine a nuclear agreement\", passed the 100,000-signature threshold within one day. The petition had reached the number 1 spot, garnering more than 320,000 signatures by April 8, 2015, more than three times the number of signatures required to qualify for a response from the White House. For a variety of reasons, however, pundits, news analysts and legal scholars are largely skeptical that the petition will receive a favorable response leading to the requested prosecutions.\n\n\"Within hours\" of President Donald Trump's inauguration on January 20, 2017, two petitions had been started on the site. One, for the release of his taxes, \"with all information needed to verify emoluments clause compliance\" reached the 100,000 signature threshold within twenty-four hours. Another, for the President to divest himself of his assets or put them in a blind trust, had some seventy-seven thousand. On January 22, Presidential aide Kellyanne Conway declared that the tax returns will not be released. On January 27, the petitions had over 385,000 and 119,000 signatures, respectively, with the former being a record number of signatures for any petition on the site. By the February 17 deadline to reach 100,000 signatures, it had exceeded one million signatures, making it the first petition on the site to do so.\n\nIn August 2017, a petition requesting that \"AntiFa\" be classified by the Pentagon as a terrorist organization was launched. The petition had over 100,000 signatures within three days. The final count before White House responded was 368,423. The originator of the \"AntiFa\" petition, who goes by the pseudonym \"Microchip\", remarked to \"Politico\" that getting conservatives to share and discuss the petition was the entire point, rather than prompting any concrete action by the government. The White House responded to the petition, stating \"Although Federal law provides a mechanism to designate and sanction \"foreign\" terrorist organizations and foreign state sponsors of terrorism, there is currently no analogous mechanism for formally designating \"domestic\" terrorist organizations. Nonetheless, law enforcement has many tools at its disposal to address violent individuals and groups.\" (emphasis added)\n\nConcerns about the efficacy of We the People have been raised since before the first White House responses were published.\n\nOn August 13, 2013, the \"Washington Post\" website published an article about 30 petitions that had been left unanswered for an average of 240 days despite each having met the signature goals. The article refers to the website www.whpetitions.info for taking \"its own tally and highlights petitions that have received enough signatures but have not received responses.\"\n\nAs of 16 October 2016, 323 White House petitions have met their signature thresholds. The White House has responded to 321 of them (99%) with an average response time of 117 days. Average waiting time so far for two unanswered petitions: 23 days, according to whpetitions.info. The total number of petitions created and percent that have reached an actionable level beyond a response are unable to be determined at this time.\n\nCriticism has been directed at the choice of administration official to answer the petitions regarding the legalization of marijuana. Gil Kerlikowske, the Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy, was chosen to craft the administration's response. The criticism stems from the Office of National Drug Control Policy Reauthorization Act of 1998, which states that the Director must oppose all attempts to legalize the use of illicit drugs in any form.\n\nOther discussions of We the People have focused on its technical glitches, democratic rationale, and political dilemmas. There is criticism about the willingness of the administration to answer petitions that meet the threshold for response, when several qualifying petitions have been unanswered for months or years. In addition, the digital divide means that poor communities will have difficulty participating equally in We The People.\n\nDuring the first weeks of the presidency of Donald Trump, \"The Independent\" and \"The A.V. Club\" reported that many popular petitions did not appear to be receiving any signatures. Additionally, certain URLs to the petitions led to error pages. Macon Phillips, the man behind \"We the People\", told \"BuzzFeed News\" that the issue stemmed from issues with its cache. He also thought that Trump's administration \"is still trying to get their heads around how it works\".\n\n"}
