{"id": "17516155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17516155", "title": "Amica Temple of Radiance", "text": "Amica Temple of Radiance\n\nThe Amica Temple of Radiance is a new religious movement begun in 1959 in Los Angeles by Roland Hunt and Dorothy Bailey based on the teachings of Ivah Bergh Whitten.\n\nWhitten had been as a child diagnosed with a disease considered incurable which she claims had been cured by her \"color awareness\". She began to teach her system, with her first course published in 1932.\n\nThe Temple continues and expands on Whitten's teachings. These teachings include that each color is an aspect of existence, and individually ruled by a master. By coming to understand which color ray an individual was born under, that individual can discern their proper work and place in life. She also taught that each color ray has a different healing potential.\n\nThe Temple currently offers lessons in \"color awareness\" to students across the country in centers located in California and Washington.\n\nThe current leader of Washington Temple is Paola Hugh.\n\n"}
{"id": "26743766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26743766", "title": "Array of Jewels", "text": "Array of Jewels\n\nThe Array of Jewels () is one of the Seventeen tantras of Dzogchen Upadesha.\n\n"}
{"id": "22735774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22735774", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Armenia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Armenia\n\nThe earliest contact documented to date, between Armenians and the Bábí-Bahá’í religion began on an unfortunate note in the banishments and execution of the Báb, the Founder of the Bábí Faith, viewed by Bahá'ís as a precursor religion, but ended courageously to the credit of the Armenian officer. In that same year the teachings of the new religion were taken to Armenia. More research is necessary to determine the details. Decades later, during the time of Soviet repression of religion, Bahá’ís in Armenia were isolated from Bahá’ís elsewhere. Eventually, by 1963, Bahá’í communities had been identified in Yerevan and Artez and communication re-established. Later, in the time of Perestroika, when increasing freedoms were allowed, there were enough Bahá’ís in some cities that Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assemblies could be formed in those Bahá’í communities in 1991. Armenian Bahá’ís were able to elect their own National Spiritual Assembly in 1995.\nIn such a situation, where religious observance had been a criminal activity, a religious census is problematic. Operation World, published in 2001, approximated the number of Bahá’ís in Armenia at 1400.\nThree years later, Bahá’ís counted only about 200. Bahá’ís generally count only adult voting members of the community, the other may have been statistically generated from a random sample to include all ages.\n\nContact between Armenia and the Bahá'í Faith begins with the history of the interactions between Haji Mirza Aqasi and Mírzá `Abbás Núrí, followed by three successive banishments of the Báb by order of Aqasi and a trial as an apostate. For acts such as these Aqasi was termed \"the Antichrist of the Bábí Revelation\" by Shoghi Effendi When younger, Aqasi fell from favor for a few years from 1821 as a result of repercussions from rivalry between Bahá'u'lláh's elder brothers in the Court of the Shah but later when Aqasi was Prime Minister he instigated several actions against Bahá'u'lláh's father. After Aqasi fell from power the movement against the Báb he had fostered resulted in the plans to execute him. It was Armenian soldiers who took part in the first attempt of the Execution of the Báb. According to the report of the execution, written to Lord Palmerston, the British Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs, by Sir Justin Shiel, Queen Victoria's Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary in Tehran on July 22, 1850, records: \"When the smoke and dust cleared away after the volley, Báb was not to be seen, and the populace proclaimed that he had ascended to the skies. The balls had broken the ropes by which he was bound…\" Shortly, the Báb and his young companion were found and brought out for execution. The Armenian troops refused to fire, and a Muslim firing squad was assembled and ordered to shoot. From 1850 onwards small groups of Bábís spread across the Caucasus including Armenia.\n\nBy the time the effects of the October Revolution began to spread across the Russian Empire transforming it into the Soviet Union, Bahá'ís had spread through much of Soviet territory. However, with the Soviet policy of religious oppression, the Bahá'ís, strictly adhering to their principle of obedience to legal government, abandoned its administration and any properties were nationalized. By 1938 most communities across the Soviet Union had lost contact with the Bahá'ís elsewhere. In 1953 Bahá'ís started to move to the Soviet Republics in Asia, after the head of the religion at the time, Shoghi Effendi, initiated a plan called the Ten Year Crusade. At the culmination of this plan, in 1963, various centers were restored in the region including Armenia, and at the time there was a Bahá'í community not only in Yerevan but also in Artez.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. World-wide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. When Perestroika allowed an atmosphere in which the Bahá'ís began to meet and organize again, the first Local Spiritual Assemblies of Armenia formed in 1991. After being part of the regional national assembly with Russia since 1992, Armenian Bahá'ís elected their first National Spiritual Assembly in 1995 with Hand of the Cause, Rúhíyyih Khanum representing the Universal House of Justice. Despite a history of contributing to societies in which the Bahá'ís are located, there are laws proposed in the Armenian legislature in 2009 proposing to circumscribe religious activities: one proposes that those who organise campaigns to spread their faith would face up to two years' imprisonment, while those who simply engage in spreading their faith would face up to one year's imprisonment or a fine of more than eight years' minimum wages while the other proposes that gaining legal status would require 1,000 adult members and other restrictions. The Armenian daily newspaper, Golos Armenii, wrote in 1995, 'It seems that in our society there is a group of absolutely defenceless people, who can be constantly beaten and terrorised.' Later in the report it stated, 'In other words, we are dealing with a case of pre-planned and widespread assault on (various religions including the Bahá'ís).'\n\nThere are Bahá'ís among the Armenian Diaspora as well as Bahá'í visitors to Armenia. Some 15 Armenian Bahá'ís traveled to Kiev to be among the 730 participants in a regional conference of the religion in 2009.\n\nThere is no reliable system in place for compiling accurate census data, but the Bahá'ís claim about 200 members but as of 2001 Operation World estimated about 1,400 adherents (0.04% of population), which are mostly in Yerevan. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 1,100 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18312832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18312832", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Panama", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Panama\n\nThe history of the Bahá'í Faith in Panama begins with a mention by `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the Bahá'í Faith, in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\", published in 1919; the same year, Martha Root made a trip around South America and included Panama on the return leg of the trip up the west coast. The first pioneers began to settle in Panama in 1940. The first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Panama, in Panama City, was elected in 1946, and the National Spiritual Assembly was first elected in 1961. The Bahá'ís of Panama raised a Bahá'í House of Worship in 1972. In 1983 and again in 1992, some commemorative stamps were produced in Panama while the community turned its interests to the San Miguelito and Chiriquí regions of Panama with schools and a radio station. The Association of Religion Data Archives estimated there were some 41,000 Bahá'ís in 2005 while another sources places it closer to 60,000.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The sixth of the tablets was the first to mention Latin American regions and was written on April 8, 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The sixth tablet was translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. After mentioning the need for the message of the religion to visit the Latin American countries `Abdu'l-Bahá continues:\n\nAll the above countries have importance, but especially the Republic of Panama, wherein the Atlantic and the Pacific Oceans come together through the Panama Canal. It is a center for travel and passage from America to other continents of the world, and in the future it will gain most great importance...\n\nMartha Root's first trip was from July to November 1919, and included Panama on the return leg of the trip up the west coast of South America.\n\nFollowing the Tablets and about the time of `Abdu'l-Bahá's passing in 1921, a few other Bahá'ís began moving to, or at least visiting, Latin America.\n\nShoghi Effendi, head of the religion after the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá, wrote a cable on May 1, 1936 to the Bahá'í Annual Convention of the United States and Canada, and asked for the systematic implementation of `Abdu'l-Bahá's vision to begin. In his cable he wrote:\n\nAppeal to assembled delegates ponder historic appeal voiced by `Abdu'l-Bahá in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". Urge earnest deliberation with incoming National Assembly to insure its complete fulfillment. First century of Bahá'í Era drawing to a close. Humanity entering outer fringes most perilous stage its existence. Opportunities of present hour unimaginably precious. Would to God every State within American Republic and every Republic in American continent might ere termination of this glorious century embrace the light of the Faith of Bahá'u'lláh and establish structural basis of His World Order.\nFollowing the May 1 cable, another cable from Shoghi Effendi came on May 19 calling for permanent pioneers to be established in all the countries of Latin America. The Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly of the United States and Canada appointed the Inter-America Committee to take charge of the preparations. During the 1937 Bahá'í North American Convention, Shoghi Effendi cabled advising the convention to prolong their deliberations to permit the delegates and the National Assembly to consult on a plan that would enable Bahá'ís to go to Latin America as well as to include the completion of the outer structure of the Bahá'í House of Worship in Wilmette, Illinois. In 1937 the \"First Seven Year Plan\" (1937–44), which was an international plan designed by Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America. With the spread of American Bahá'ís in Latin American, Bahá'í communities and Local Spiritual Assemblies began to form in 1938 across the rest of Latin America.\n\nIt was in 1939-1940 when the first pioneers began to settle in Panama. The first Local Spiritual Assembly of Panama, in Panama City, was elected in 1946, and helped host the first All-American Teaching Conference. One Bahá'í from this early period was Mabel Adelle Sneider (converted in 1946), who was a nurse at Gorgas Hospital for 30 years and then pioneered to the Gilbert Islands for many years. In 1946, American Baha'i Alfred Osborne converted the first indigenous believer, a Kuna from Playa Chico.\n\nIn January 1947 Panama City hosted the first congress of the northern Latin Americas to build a new consciousness of unity among the Bahá'ís of Central America, Mexico and the West Indies to focus energies for the election of a regional national assembly. Its members were Josi Antonio Bonilla, Marcia Steward, Natalia Chávez, Gerardo Vega, and Oscar Castro. Retrospectively a stated purpose for the committee was to facilitate a shift in the balance of roles from North American guidance and Latin cooperation to Latin guidance and North American cooperation. The process was well underway by 1950 and was to be enforced about 1953.\n\nShoghi Effendi then called for two international conventions to be held at April 1951; one was held in Panama City for the purpose of electing a regional National Spiritual Assembly over the Central area of Mexico and the West Indies whose headquarters was in Panama and which was witnessed by representatives of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of the United States in the persons of Dorothy Beecher Baker and Horace Holly. Circa 1953, Bahá'í Local Assemblies in Panama City and Colón had a community center.\n\nOne notable Bahá'í from this early phase was Cecilia King Blake, who on October 20, 1957 converted to the Bahá'í Faith and pioneered to Nicaragua and Costa Rica.\n\nRuth (née Yancey) and Alan Pringle had the first Bahá’í wedding to be legally recognised in Panama, and both were members of the National Spiritual Assembly that formed in 1961. Ruth served in several other positions, ultimately becoming a Continental Counsellor. The members of the 1963 National Spiritual Assembly of Panama were Harry Haye Anderson, Rachelle Jean E de Constante, James Vassal Facey, Kenneth Frederics, Leota E. M. Lockman, Alfred E. A. Osborne, William Alan H. Pringle, Ruth E. Yancey Pringle and Donald Ross Witzel. By 1963 there were Bahá'í converts among the Cerrobolo, Guaymí and Kuna.\n\nSix conferences held in October 1967 around the world presented a viewing of a copy of the photograph of Bahá'u'lláh on the highly significant occasion commemorating the centenary of Bahá'u'lláh's writing of the \"Suriy-i-Mulúk\" (Tablet to the Kings), which Shoghi Effendi describes as \"the most momentous Tablet revealed by Bahá'u'lláh\". After a meeting in Edirne (Adrianople), Turkey, the Hands of the Cause travelled to the conferences, 'each bearing the precious trust of a photograph of the Blessed Beauty, which it will be the privilege of those attending the Conferences to view.' Hand of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum conveyed this photograph to the Conference for Latin America at Panama. During this event the foundation stone of the forthcoming Bahá'í House of Worship for Latin America was laid.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The Bahá'ís of Panama were chosen as one of the sites of the Bahá'í Houses of Worship. The religion entered a new phase of activity around the world when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482. Bahá'ís in Panama have embarked on a number of projects. The Panamanian government noted the activities of the Bahá'ís and released a variety of philately products starting in 1983 and again in 1992 - a stamp and several stationaries and Panamanian Bahá'ís became active in a number of issues among the poor regions of Panama - notably Panamá and Chiriquí/Ngöbe-Buglé districts as well as among indigenous peoples.\n\nThe Bahá'í temple in Panama City was dedicated in 1972 with Hands of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum, Ugo Giachery and Dhikru'llah Khadem representing the Universal House of Justice, head of the religion after the death of Shoghi Effendi. It serves as the mother temple of Latin America. It is perched on a high hill, \"la montaña del Dulce Canto\" (\"the mountain of Beautiful Singing\"), overlooking the city, and is constructed of local stone laid in a pattern reminiscent of Native American fabric designs. Readings in Spanish and English are available for visitors. However the mountain is being denuded by the extraction of rocks and soil to be used in the other construction.\n\nThe first Guaymí Bahá'í dates back into the 1960s, and since the 1980s there have been several projects started and evolving in those communities. After the religion grew among the Guaymi, they in turn offered service in 1985-6 with the \"Camino del Sol\" project included indigenous Guaymí Bahá'ís of Panama traveling with the Venezuelan indigenous Carib speaking and Guajira Bahá'ís through the Venezuelan states of Bolívar, Amazonas and Zulia sharing their religion. The Bahá'í Guaymí Cultural Centre was built in the Chiriquí district (which was split in 1997 to create the Ngöbe-Buglé district) and used as a seat for the Panamanian Ministry of Education's literacy efforts in the 1980s. A two-day seminar on literacy was held by the Bahá'í Community in collaboration with the Panamanian Ministry of Education in Panama City over two days beginning on April 23, 1990. The Bahá'ís were specifically asked to speak on \"spiritual qualities\" and on \"Universal Elements Essential in Education.\" The Minister of Education requested that the Bahá'ís present their literacy projects to the Ministry of Education, in support of International Literacy Year - 1990. The Bahá'ís developed many formal and village schools throughout the region and a community radio project.\n\nThe Bahá'í Radio is an AM broadcasting station from Boca del Monte with programs and news in Guaymí native language, Ngabere, leading to maintaining the usefulness of the language and in the telling of stories and coverage of issues to the support of Guaymí traditions and culture.\n\nIn Panama's remote indigenous villages (some requiring three hours by bus, three hours by boat, and then three hours on foot, a trip made twice a week) Bahá'í volunteers run ten primary schools where the government does not provide access to a school. Later a FUNDESCU stipend of $50 per month was made available for 13 teachers and the MInistry of Education added funds for a 14th. As subsistence farmers, the villagers have no money or food to offer. Instead they take turns providing firewood for an outdoor kitchen or build small wood-framed shelters with corrugated zinc panels and a narrow wooden platform for a bed. The teachers and administrators do not seek to convert the students. Some of the villagers are Bahá'ís, some are Catholics, some Evangelicals, and some follow the native Mama Tata religion. In all, about half the students are Bahá'ís (about 150). Nevertheless, there is a strong moral component to the program including a weekly class on \"Virtues and Values.\" Over the years, some training for the teachers has been provided but many have not finished the twelfth grade including some women who have faced difficulties getting even that much education.\n\nAmong the formal schools established there are:\n\nIn the Panamá district the Bahá'ís established a Bahá'í inspired school in San Miguelito, a city with widespread poverty, and a native population of Embera and Kuna peoples.\n\nThe Badí School was founded in 1993 and began as a kindergarten with 12 students. In 2007 there were 290 students serving K-12, with a waiting list of 1,500, and six of the first seven graduates earned the highest grade on the Panama University entrance exam and were accepted with full four-year scholarships. Badí School also developed a two-story community library, and added a classroom and computer lab in 2006.\n\nBadi School is attempting to extend its services with college-level degrees. Some level of registration was completed in June 2007. Further accreditation is being sought as a university program in 2008 but already has had students taking college work, among them commercial artist Jessica Mizrachi Diaz.\n\nThe World Council of Churches estimates the Bahá'í population at 2.00%, or about 60,000 in 2006. The Association of Religion Data Archives estimated there were some 41000 Bahá'ís in 2005. It is the largest religious minority in Panama. There is an estimate of some 8,000 Guaymi Bahá'is, about 10% of the population of Guaymi in Panama.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38394922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38394922", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in South America", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in South America\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith is a diverse and widespread religion founded by Bahá'u'lláh in the 19th century in Iran. Bahá'í sources usually estimate the worldwide Bahá'í population to be above 5 million. Most encyclopedias and similar sources estimate between 5 and 6 million Bahá'ís in the world in the early 21st century. The religion is almost entirely contained in a single, organized, hierarchical community, but the Bahá'í population is spread out into almost every country and ethnicity in the world, being recognized as the second-most geographically widespread religion after Christianity. See Bahá'í statistics.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith was introduced into South America in 1919 when Martha Root made an extended trip to Brazil, Argentina, Chile, and Peru. She introduced the Bahá'í Faith to Esperantists and Theosophical groups and visited local newspapers to ask them to publish articles about the Bahá'í Faith. The first Bahá'í permanently resident in South America was Leonora Armstrong, who arrived in Brazil in 1921. The first Seven Year Plan (1937–44), an international plan organized by then head of the Bahá'í Faith, Shoghi Effendi, gave the American Bahá'ís the goal of establishing the Bahá'í Faith in every country in Latin America (that is, settling at least one Bahá'í or converting at least one native). In 1950, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of South America was first elected, and then in 1957 this Assembly was split into two – basically northern/eastern South America with the Republics of Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, and Venezuela, in Lima, Peru and one of the western/southern South America with the Republics of Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, and Bolivia in Buenos Aires, Argentina. By 1963, most countries in South America had their own National Spiritual Assembly.\n\nAmong the more significant developments across South and Central America for the religion has been the building of the last continental Bahá'í House of Worship in Chile, a program of developing Bahá'í radio stations in several countries, relationships with indigenous populations, development programs like FUNDAEC, and the Ruhi institute process began in Colombia.\n\nIn late 2002, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Chile and the Universal House of Justice, the international governing body of the Bahá'ís, announced a competition for the design of the first Bahá'í House of Worship for South America, to be built near Santiago () though the general decision to have the first temple of South America was set since 1953. The selected design was designed by Siamak Hariri of Toronto, Canada, and fabrication of components began in 2007. The temple was inaugurated in 2016. Its sides are composed of translucent panels of alabaster and cast glass. The interior structure is a lattice structure of steel supporting the inside of the upper dome.\n\nSince the 1960s there has been interest in mass media to promote and support development projects. This was followed by a view that the service of the community of the religion was through the participation of the community and spread of information. At a series of UNESCO conferences Bahá'ís consulted and the consensus of opinion lead to advancing the issues until in 1978 a conference was held in Ecuador. At that conference researchers summarized developments along these lines and noted challenges such projects faced and a few ways such projects failed while also noting that village radio stations seemed to be a nice fit because of the necessary quality of communication in a society. The Bahá'í Radio project in Ecuador served as a means to study the process of the two trends by setting up a community radio station of the community for the community - and may have been the first such project in all Latin America aimed at serving the \"campesinos\" as its primary purpose with development oriented programming. It mixed national music forms with public service features (lost and found, messages to individuals, official communications, but looking to develop more.) The project was studied through faculty from Northwestern University from 1980–1982, and briefly in 1983, and reviewed Bahá'í Radio projects in Peru and Bolivia as well and resulted in a PhD by Kurt John Hein in 1985 following which he took up service at WLGI Radio Bahá'í.\n\nSince 1977, Bahá'ís have established several radio stations worldwide, particularly in South America. Programmes broadcast may include local news, music, topics related to socio-economic and community development, educational programmes focusing on indigenous language and culture, and Bahá'í introductory and deepening material.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith and Native Americans has a history reaching back to the lifetime of `Abdu'l-Bahá, the head of the religion near the turn of the 20th century and has multiplied its relationships across the Americas. Individuals have joined the religion and institutions have been founded to serve Native Americans and have Native Americans serve on Bahá'í institutions.\n\nBy 1963 Bahá'í sources claim members of some 83 tribes of Native Americans had joined the religion. Among the Central and South American indigenous there are substantial populations of native Bahá'ís. An informal summary of the Wayuu ( a tribe living in La Guajira Desert) community in 1971 showed about 1000 Bahá'ís. The largest population of Bahá'ís in South America is in Bolivia, a country whose population is estimated to be 55%–70% indigenous and 30%–42% Mestizo, with a Bahá'í population estimated at 206,000 in 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives.\n\nRelationships between North American and South American Indian populations have been fostered by North American Indians. The idea for a \"Trail of Light\" occurred during preparations for the first Bahá'í Native Council in 1978. Another inspiration for the Trail of Light was the concept of promulgating the religion among the indigenous peoples in the Pacific Rim that was described by the Hand of the Cause Rahmátu'llah Muhájir in 1978. The Trail of Light, also known as \"Camino del Sol\", was defined as a process whereby native Bahá'ís engaged with diverse native peoples about a number of issues including promulgating their religion as well as organizing councils for the people and encouraged discovery of mutual cultural links across the native peoples. The first \"Trail of Light\" traveling trip by 22 members of the religion occurred spontaneously immediately after the council. In 1985 the Trail of Light project began its work in Colombia.\n\nFUNDAEC, the acronym in Spanish for “The Foundation for the Application and Teaching of the Sciences”, is a non-profit, non-governmental organization that focuses on training and development in the rural areas of Colombia and other countries in Latin America. It was created in 1974 in Colombia by a group of scientists and professionals led by Farzam Arbab then a visiting professor to the University of Valle in 1970. In 1974 FUNDAEC was initiated as a Colombian NGO based on Bahá'í consultations with Colombians starting in the 1970s which developed a number of projects like a secondary curriculum centered on skill development for living in the countryside and minimized urbanization for example. According to Gustav Correa, director of FUNDAEC in 2002, it was originally inspired by a quotation from Bahá'u'lláh - \"Baha'u'llah talks about man as 'a mine rich in gems of inestimable value.' He says that 'education can, alone, cause it to reveal its treasures, and enable mankind to benefit therefrom'. Its founding ideals included not seeing the people as masses of undernourished people, overwhelmed by problems and needs-housing, employment, sanitation, education, but instead to consider the participants of its programs as irreplaceable resources in a self-sustaining process of change. FUNDAEC was officially instituted as a private development foundation based in Cali, and has developed a number of development projects centered around a goal that rural populations should not only benefit from higher education, but should also actively participate in creating and generating knowledge and technologies, to improve their quality of life and standard of living FUNDAEC sought to dispel the image of the poor farmer whose life must be planned and managed by more privileged members of society.\n\nThe Ruhi Institute is an educational institution, operating under the guidance of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'í Faith in Colombia. The general idea of an institute in Bahá'í terms originates with the beginning of the \"Nine Year Plan\" (starting in 1964) designated by the Universal House of Justice. The \"institute\" or \"training institute\" was especially for countries where large-scale expansion was taking place to meet the needs of the thousands who were entering the religion. At that time, the emphasis was on acquiring a physical facility to which group after group of newly enrolled believers would be invited to attend deepening courses. Over the years, in conjunction with these institutes as well as independent of them, a number of courses—referred to, for example, as weekend institutes, five-day institutes, and nine-day institutes— were developed for the purpose of promulgating the \"fundamental verities\" of the religion and how to serve it. Since its founding the program of courses developed first in Colombia has been adopted for work around the world and across age groups and studied in a variety of applications.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Bolivia begins with references to the country in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916. The first Bahá'í to arrive in Bolivia was in 1940 through the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers, people who chose to move for the growth of the religion, from the United States. That same year the first Bolivian joined the religion. The first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in La Paz in 1945 and the first Indian formally joined the religion in 1956 which soon spread widely among that subculture. The community elected an independent National Spiritual Assembly in 1961. By 1963 there were hundreds of local assemblies. The Bahá'í Faith is currently the largest international religious minority in Bolivia. The largest population of Bahá'ís in South America is in Bolivia, a country whose general population is estimated to be 55%-70% indigenous and 30%-42% Mestizo, with a Bahá'í population estimated at 217000 in 2005 according to the Association of Religion Data Archives.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Brazil started in 1919 with Bahá'ís first visiting the country that year, and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly in Brazil was established in 1928. There followed a period of growth with the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States finding national Brazilian converts and in 1961 an independent national Bahá'í community was formed. During the 1992 Earth Summit, which was held in Brazil, the international and local Bahá'í community were given the responsibility for organizing a series of different programs, and since then the involvements of the Bahá'í community in the country have continued to multiply. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on \"World Christian Encyclopedia\") estimated some 42211 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith was first mentioned Chile in Bahá'í sources as early as 1916, with Bahá'ís visiting as early as 1919 but the community wasn't founded in Chile until 1940 with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States finding national Chilean converts and achieved an independent national community in 1963. In 2002 this community was picked for the establishment of the first Bahá'í Temple of South America which the community is still prosecuting.\n\nThe permanent Chilean Bahá'í community dates from the arrival of Marcia Stewart Atwater, born in 1904 in Pasadena, California, who arrived in Chile on 7 December 1940. The first Chilean to accept the Bahá'í Faith was 12-year-old Paul Bravo, which was followed by his family becoming Bahá'ís. Then in 1943, Chile's first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected. Following the election of the Regional Bahá'í Spiritual Assembly of South America in 1950, Chile established its independent Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly in 1961. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 26000 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Colombia begins with references to the country in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916, with Bahá'ís visiting as early as 1927. The first Colombian joined the religion in 1929 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Bogotá in 1944 with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States and achieved an independent National Spiritual Assembly in 1961. By 1963 there were eleven local assemblies. In the 1980s institutions were developed in Colombia that have influenced activities inside and independent of the religion in other countries: FUNDAEC and the Ruhi Institute. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 70000 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Guyana was first mentioned in Bahá'í sources as early as 1916, the first Bahá'ís visited as early as 1927 but the community was founded in Guyana in 1953 with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers and from Guyanese converts. The community elected the first Bahá'íLocal Spiritual Assembly in 1955 and an independent National Spiritual Assembly in 1977. The country has experienced large migrations and the size of the Bahá'í community has also dramatically changed. In the most recent cycle the 2002 national census showed about 0.1%, or 500, Bahá'ís mostly in three of its Regions though Bahá'ís were noted in every Region. However, by 2005 the Association of Religion Data Archives estimated there were some 13,000 Bahá'ís. Bahá'ís are now widely distributed across Guyana and represent all major racial groups and regions. The Bahá'í community, while relatively small, is well known for its emphasis on unity, non-involvement in politics and its work in issues such as literacy and youth issues.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Paraguay begins after `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, mentioned the country in 1916. Paraguayan Maria Casati was the first to join the religion in 1939 when living in Buenos Aires. The first pioneer to settle in Paraguay was Elizabeth Cheney late in 1940 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Asunción was elected in 1944. By 1961 Paraguayan Bahá'ís had elected the first National Spiritual Assembly and by 1963 there were 3 local assemblies plus other communities. Recent estimates of Bahá'ís mention 5500 or 10,600 though the state Census doesn't mention the Bahá'ís.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Peru begins with references to Peru in Bahá'í literature as early as 1916, with the firstBahá'ís visiting as early as 1919. A functioning community wasn't founded in Peru until the 1930s with the beginning of the arrival of coordinated pioneers from the United States which progressed into finding national Peruvian converts and achieved an independent national community in 1961. The Association of Religion Data Archives(relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 41,900 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Uruguay begins after `Abdu'l-Bahá, then head of the religion, mentioned the country in 1916. The first Bahá'í to enter the country was Martha Root in 1919. The first pioneer to settle there was Wilfrid Barton early in 1940 and the first Bahá'í Local Spiritual Assembly of Montevideo was elected in 1942. By 1961 Uruguayan Bahá'ís had elected the first National Spiritual Assembly and by 1963 there were three Local Assemblies plus other communities. Circa 2001 there was an estimated 4,000 Bahá'ís in Uruguay. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 7,300 Bahá'ís in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426006", "title": "Buddhism and sexual orientation", "text": "Buddhism and sexual orientation\n\nThe relationship between Buddhism and sexual orientation varies by tradition and teacher. According to some scholars, early Buddhism appears to have placed no special stigma on homosexual relations, since the subject was not mentioned. \n\nIn the early sutras of Buddhism, \"accepted or unaccepted human sexual conduct\" for laypersons \"is not specifically mentioned.\" \"Sexual misconduct\" is a broad term, subject to interpretation according to followers' social norms. Early Buddhism appears to have been silent concerning homosexual relations.\n\nAccording to the Pāli Canon & Āgama (the Early Buddhist scriptures), there is no saying that same or opposite gender relations have anything to do with sexual misconduct, and some Theravada monks express that same-gender relations do not violate the rule to avoid sexual misconduct, which means not having sex with someone underage (thus protected by their parents or guardians), someone betrothed or married and who have taken vows of religious celibacy.\n\nSome later traditions feature restrictions on non-vaginal sex (some Buddhist texts mention non-vaginal sex as sexual misconduct, including men having sex with men or paṇḍaka) though some buddhist monks interpret such texts as being about forced sex. This non-vaginal sex view is not based on what Buddha said, but from some later scriptures such as the Abhidharma texts.\n\nRegarding Buddhist monks, the Vinaya (code of monastic discipline) bans all sexual activity, but does so in purely physiological terms, making no moral distinctions among the many possible forms of intercourse it lists.\n\nAmong Buddhists there is a wide diversity of opinion about homosexuality. Buddhism teaches that sensual enjoyment and desire in general, and sexual pleasure in particular, are hindrances to enlightenment, and inferior to the kinds of pleasure (see, e.g. pīti, a Pāli word often translated as \"rapture\") that are integral to the practice of jhāna. However, most Buddhists do not only pursue skill in meditation or aim for enlightenment. For most, the goal is a pleasant life and, after death, a pleasant rebirth. For these Buddhists, enjoying sensual pleasures in a non-harmful way is normative.\n\nWithin the earliest monastic texts such as the Vinaya (c. 4th century BCE), male monks are explicitly forbidden from having sexual relations with any of the four genders: male, female, \"ubhatovyanjañaka\" and \"paṇḍaka\"; various meanings of these words are given below. Later, the Buddha allowed the ordination of women, forbade ordination to these other types of people, with exceptions to a few particular types of paṇḍaka. The Buddha's proscriptions against certain types of people joining the monastic sangha (ordained community) are often understood to reflect his concern with upholding the public image of the sangha as virtuous; in some cases, this is explicitly stated. Social acceptability was vital for the sangha, as it could not survive without material support from lay society.\n\nThe word \"ubhatovyanjañaka\" is usually thought to describe people who have both male and female sexual characteristics: hermaphrodites (intersex). In the Vinaya, it is said that \"ubhatovyanjañaka\" should not be ordained, on account of the possibility that they would entice a fellow monk or nun into having sex.\n\nThe \"paṇḍaka\" is a complex category that is variously defined in different Buddhist texts. In the earliest texts, the word seems to refer to a socially stigmatized class of promiscuous, passive, probably transvestite men, who were possibly prostitutes with other males. Paisarn Likhitpreechakul argue that these men are grouped together as special types of those suffering impotence due to seminal absence/deficiency rather than gender roles.\n\nPaṇḍaka are categorized with others who are also excluded from ordination; either those with physical abnormalities such as deafness or dwarfism, or those who have committed crimes. \"The Story of the Prohibition of the Ordination of Pandaka\" from the Vinaya explains that the ban is a response to the example of a monk with an insatiable desire to be sexually penetrated by men, who requested and received this from some animal handlers, who then in turn related the incident to the wider community and brought disgrace upon the sangha.\n\nIn the Lotus Sutra, it mentioned Bodhisattva shouldn't go near Paṇḍaka, as like what monk rules said in Vinaya. The Milinda Panha, mentions Paṇḍaka as being sexually imperfect.\n\nSome modern commentators interpret the word \"ubhatovyanjañaka\" as including those who are not physical intersex, but display behavioral and psychological characteristics of both sexes, such as a woman who is attracted to other women. 5th-century Buddhist writer Buddhaghosa describes \"ubhatobyanjanaka\" as people with the body of one sex but the \"power\", or gender of the other. Leonard Zwilling argues that in this account Buddhaghosa does not in fact describe \"hermaphroditism\" but rather bisexuality or homosexuality. Janet Gyatso pointed out that Zwilling destroys his own argument that pandakas are homosexuals when he writes, \"The Vinaya, in fact, goes so far as to distinguish sexual activity between normative males from sexual relations between a socially normative male and a pandaka.\"\n\nIn other texts, the term \"paṇḍaka\" can include those born sexually indeterminate or with no sex, eunuchs, those whose impotence changes every half month, males who gain sexual potency by absorbing other men's semen, or spying on other people having sex. It sometimes includes males or females with any sexual dysfunction, such as impotence or irregular menstrual cycles. The common element seems to be those whose sexuality is either limited physiologically, or those who are sexually impotent. Together these impotence types are almost always portrayed negatively as a pariah class, especially in the earliest texts. In modern contexts, paṇḍaka is sometimes wrongly interpreted to include lesbians, gay men, and transgender and intersex people, although in ancient times, a man who sexually penetrated another man or a paṇḍaka was not himself considered a paṇḍaka.\n\nSome texts of the Abhidharma state that a paṇḍaka cannot achieve enlightenment in their own lifetime, but must wait for reincarnation as a man or woman. Ananda — Buddha's cousin and disciple — was said to be a paṇḍaka in one of his many previous lives, as was the Buddhist nun Isidāsī (from the Therigatha). In both cases birth as a paṇḍaka was a result of poor karma, and the idea that being a paṇḍaka stems from bad behaviour in a previous life is common in Buddhist literature. Asanga and Vasubandhu discussed if a pandaka was able to be enlightened or not.\n\nIn the Samantapasadika, a work of the 5th century CE Theravadin commentator and scholar Buddhaghosa's, paṇḍaka are described as being filled with defiling passions (\"ussanakilesa\"), unquenchable lusts (\"avapasantaparilaha\") and are dominated by their libido (\"parilahavegabhibhuta\"). The 4th century mahayana Buddhist writers Vasubandhu and Asanga contend that the paṇḍaka has no discipline for spiritual practice, due to their defiling passions of both male and female sexes. They lack the moral fortitude to counter these passions because they lack modesty and shame. Incapable of showing restraint, such a being is abandoned by their parents and lacking such ties are unable to hold strong views. Asanga, like Vasubandhu, refuse the pandaka recognition as a layman on the grounds that such persons are unfit to associate with or serve the Sangha. Asanga, however, considers them capable to practice the path of a layman individually if they so desire, but without receiving recognition as a layman or being introduced in the sangha. A position similar to Asanga view was also featured in the Lotus Sutra, where sangha members were advised to avoid the paṇḍaka.\n\nBuddha's proscriptions against certain types of people joining the monastic sangha (ordained community) are often understood to reflect his concern with upholding the public image of the sangha as virtuous. Peter Jackson, scholar of sexual politics and Buddhism in Thailand, speculates that the Buddha was initially reluctant to allow women to join the sangha for this reason. Jackson explains:\n\nBuddhism, the middle path, has always been concerned with the maintenance of social order and since the Buddha's time the sangha has never claimed to provide a universal vehicle for the spiritual liberation of all individuals in society, explicitly excluding those who are considered to reflect badly on the monkhood in terms of prevailing social norms and attitudes.\n\nSocial acceptability was vital for the sangha, as it could not survive without material support from lay society.\n\nSeveral theravada Buddhist texts state that the members of the paṇḍaka are excluded from a variety of Buddhist practices (in addition to ordination):\n\n\nClassical mahayana scholars like Shantideva and Aśvaghoṣa considered non-vagina sex to be sexual misconduct. Shantideva based his views on quotes from the Saddharma-smrtyupasthana Sutra. According to Mizuno Kōgen's study, Saddharma-smrtyupasthana Sutra is related to Ghoṣa's Abhidharmāmṛtarasaśāstra, and is compiled by Sarvastivada (possibly from someone related to Ghoṣa after the 2nd century). In the Great Treatise on the Perfection of Wisdom (Sanskrit: Mahā-prajñāpāramitā-śāstra), the Madhyamaka scholar Nagarjuna mentioned the non-vagina sex restriction as based on coerced action toward one's own spouse.\n\nIn contrast, later texts, particularly Tibetan Buddhist writings, occasionally value paṇḍaka positively for their \"middleness\" and balance. The paṇḍaka in these Tibetan works is translated with the term \"ma ning\" — \"genderless\" or \"without genitals\". The 13th-century Tibetan monk Gyalwa Yang Gönpa, who was one of the significant figures in the early Drukpa Kagyu sect, writes about \"ma ning\" as a balanced state between maleness and femaleness. Yang Gönpa describes \"ma ning\" as \"the abiding breath between male exhalation and female inhalation\" and \"the balanced yogic channel, as opposed to the too tight male channel, and the too loose female one\".\n\nMost Mahayana teachings assert that all beings who correctly practice the dharma may reach enlightenment, since all possess an innate buddha nature. Enlightenment being achievable even in a single life.\n\nGampopa (12th century), one of the main early masters of the Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism, followed the Indian Buddhist tradition, starting with the 3rd-century Hinayana texts of Vasubandhu, that oral and anal sex, whether with a man or a woman, are violations of the third precept regarding inappropriate sexual behavior. Longchenpa, the 13th-century founder of the Nyingma school, citing the 3rd-century Mahayana texts of the Indian master Asanga, elaborated that inappropriate sexual behavior also include the hands among inappropriate parts of the body for sexual activity. In the same way, Gelug predecessor Je Tsongkhapa also adheres to such rules in his studies.\n\nSubsequent Tibetan masters from all five schools of Tibetan Buddhism accept all these specifications as delineated in the earlier Indian Buddhist texts.\n\nThe late Lama Thubten Yeshe, a Gelugpa Lama and founder of the Foundation for the Preservation of the Mahayana Tradition, indicated that he did not consider homosexuality to be sexual misconduct. He stated: \"My own view, man stay with man, female stay with female, I don’t consider it good or bad. This is my opinion. It’s just no big deal, no big deal, that’s all.\" \n\nThe current Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, follows the traditional Tibetan Buddhist assertion that inappropriate sexual behaviour includes lesbian and gay sex, and indeed any sex other than penis-vagina intercourse with one's own monogamous partner, including oral sex, anal sex, and masturbation. In a 1994 interview, he stated: \"If someone comes to me and asks whether homosexuality is okay or not, I will ask 'What is your companion's opinion?' If you both agree, then I think I would say 'if two males or two females voluntarily agree to have mutual satisfaction without further implication of harming others, then it is okay'.\" However, in his 1996 book \"Beyond Dogma\", he states, \"A sexual act is deemed proper when the couples use the organs intended for sexual intercourse and nothing else... homosexuality, whether it is between men or between women, is not improper in itself. What is improper is the use of organs already defined as inappropriate for sexual contact.\"\n\nIn this discussion, it should be understood that the controversial topic is inappropriate sexual conduct for a Buddhist practitioner, as the Dalai Lama has repeatedly \"voiced his support for the full recognition of human rights for all people, regardless of sexual orientation.\" He explained in 1997: \"It's part of what we Buddhists call bad sexual conduct. Sexual organs were created for reproduction between the male element and the female element — and everything that deviates from that is not acceptable from a Buddhist point of view,\" while penis-vagina non-procreative sex is not considered to be sexual misconduct. The Dalai Lama admitted that there is a difference between the views of believers and unbelievers: \"From a Buddhist point of view, men-to-men and women-to-women is generally considered sexual misconduct. From society's point of view, mutually agreeable homosexual relations can be of mutual benefit, enjoyable and harmless.\"\nHe cited the Indian Buddhist texts of Vasubandhu, Asanga, and Ashvaghosha as his sources concerning what constitutes inappropriate sexual behavior.\n\nFour years earlier, he had been unsure if a mutually agreeable non-abusive same sex relationship would be acceptable within the general principles of Buddhism. However, he had difficulty imagining the mechanics of homosexual sex, saying that nature had arranged male and female organs \"in such a manner that is very suitable... Same-sex organs cannot manage well.\" The Dalai Lama has repeatedly said to LGBT groups that he can't rewrite the texts. He thinks that this is the type of issue that would need to be discussed by a council of Buddhist elders from all Buddhist traditions. Only such a council could amend issues concerning Vinaya and ethics. The Dalai Lama also recommends the issue of the equality of women, particularly in monastic rituals and ceremonies, to be reconsidered and revised.\n\nNazi Germany SS officer Ernst Schäfer during his 1938–39 German expedition to Tibet in his account of Tibetan homosexuality he describes the various positions taken by older lamas with younger boys and then goes on to explain how homosexuality played an important role in the higher politics of Tibet. There are pages of careful observation of Himalayan people engaged in a variety of intimate acts.\n\nIn 1999, in an interview with Alice Thompson, he stated: \"They want me to condone homosexuality. But I am a Buddhist and, for a Buddhist, a relationship between two men is wrong. Some sexual conduct in marriage is also wrong,\" speaking regarding masturbation and oral sex. He also said that \"If an individual has no faith, that is a different matter... If two men really love each other and are not religious, then that is OK by me.\" \n\nIn an interview with \"Wikinews\", Tashi Wangdi, representative to the Dalai Lama, further elaborated his perspective on these views. If a person was to engage in homosexuality, \"a person would not be considered as following \"all\" the precepts of Buddhist principles. People don’t follow all the principles. Very few people can claim they follow all the principles. For instance, telling a lie. In any religion, if you ask if telling a lie is a sin — say Christian — they will say yes. But you find very few people who don’t at some point tell a lie. Homosexuality is one act, but you can’t say [a person who is homosexual is] not a Buddhist. Or someone who tells a lie is not a Buddhist. Or someone who kills an insect is not a Buddhist, because there’s a strong injunction against that.\"\n\nIn an interview on March 10, 2014, Dalai Lama said gay marriage is ‘OK’, provided it's not in contradiction with the values of one's chosen religion.\n\nIn Thailand, traditional accounts propose that \"homosexuality arises as a karmic consequence of violating Buddhist proscriptions against heterosexual misconduct. These karmic accounts describe homosexuality as a congenital condition which cannot be altered, at least in a homosexual person's current lifetime, and have been linked with calls for compassion and understanding from the non-homosexual populace.\" Some more recent Thai Buddhist accounts (from the late 1980s) have \"described homosexuality as a wilful violation of \"natural\" (hetero)sexual conduct resulting from lack of ethical control over sexual impulses.\" Peter Jackson, an Australian scholar of sexual politics and Buddhism in Thailand, writes that these positions represent \"two broad schools of thought on homosexuality [which] are current among contemporary Thai Buddhist writers, one accepting, the other unaccepting. The key factor differentiating the divergent stances is the author's conceptualisation of the origin of homosexuality; those who, taking a liberal stance, maintain that it is a condition which is outside the conscious control of homosexual men and women and has its origins in past misdeeds, whereas those who maintain that homosexuality is a wilful violation of ethical and natural principles takes an antagonistic position.\"\n\nPeter Jackson argues that AIDS in the 1980s brought about a shift of perception in Thailand regarding kathoeys, \"placing homosexuality rather than gender at the focus of the concept\", which was associated with \"a shift in Buddhist attitudes from relative tolerance of homosexuality to condemnation.\"\n\nIn 1989, the supreme governing body of the Thai sangha affirmed that \"gays\" (here translated from Thai \"kathoey\") are prohibited from being ordained. Their declaration has apparently gone unheeded in some quarters, as Phra Pisarn Thammapatee (AKA Phra Payom Kalayano), one of the most eminent monks in the country, demanded in 2003 that 1,000 gay monks be ousted from the sangha, and that better screening processes are put in place to keep out any gay postulants.\n\nSeveral writers have noted the strong historical tradition of open bisexuality and homosexuality among male Buddhist institutions in Japan. When the Tendai priest Genshin harshly criticised homosexuality as immoral, others mistook his criticism as having been because the acolyte wasn't one's own. \"Chigo Monogatari\", \"acolyte stories\" of love between monks and their \"chigo\" were popular, and such relationships appear to have been commonplace, alongside sex with women. In the 15th century, maverick Zen monk Ikkyu Sojun (1394–1481) wrote, \"follow the rule of celibacy and you are no more than an ass.\" Later, \"exhausted with homosexual pleasures\", he took a wife.\n\nWestern Christian travellers to Japan from the 16th century have noted (with distaste) the prevalence and acceptance of forms of homosexuality among Japanese Buddhists—Jesuit priest Francis Cabral wrote in 1596 that \"abominations of the flesh\" and \"vicious habits\" were \"regarded in Japan as quite honourable; men of standing entrust their sons to the bonzes to be instructed in such things, and at the same time to serve their lust\".\n\nA 17th-century Japanese Buddhist scholar, Kitamura Kigin, wrote that Buddha advocated homosexuality over heterosexuality for priests:\nIt has been the nature of men's hearts to take pleasure in a beautiful woman since the age of male and female gods, but to become intoxicated by the blossom of a handsome youth... would seem to be both wrong and unusual. Nevertheless, the Buddha preached that <nowiki>[Mount]</nowiki> Imose was a place to be avoided and the priests of the law entered this Way as an outlet for their feelings, since their hearts were, after all, made of neither stone nor wood. Like water that plunges from the peak of Tsukubane to form the deep pools of the Minano River, this love has surpassed in depth the love between women and men in these latter days. It plagues the heart not only of courtier and aristocrat but also of brave warriors. Even the mountain dwellers who cut brush for fuel have learned to take pleasure in the shade of young saplings.\" — Wild Azaleas (1676)\n\nA later Popular Japanese legend attributed the introduction of monastic homosexuality to Japan to Shingon founder Kukai, although scholars now dismiss the veracity of this assertion, pointing out his strict adherence to the Vinaya. Nonetheless, the legend served to \"affirm same sex relation between men and boys in 17th century Japan.\"\n\nAbout Buddhism and homosexuality in China, scholar A. L. De Silva writes, \"Generally the attitude has been one of tolerance. Matteo Ricci, the Jesuit missionary who lived in China for 27 years from 1583, expressed horror at the open and tolerant attitude that the Chinese took to homosexuality and naturally enough saw this as proof of the degeneracy of Chinese society.\"\n\nVenerable Hsing Yun, one of the premier figures in contemporary Chinese Buddhism, has stated that Buddhism should never teach intolerance toward homosexuality, and that people should expand their minds.\n\nHsing Yun is a best-selling author throughout the Sinosphere, as well as an advocate of Humanistic Buddhism, an approach to reform Chinese Buddhism to match the needs of contemporary laypeople. As such, his views may not be wholly reflective of the older Buddhist views in China. However, at an earlier point (1998), he is quoted as remarking that \"according to Buddhism, any emotional involvement, whether homosexual or heterosexual, is a form of attachment ... and, therefore, is a source of suffering,\" and when the topic of homosexuality in particular came up \"the master spoke more strongly, calling homosexuality a perverted view (\"xiejian\").\"\n\nAn example of an older view in opposition to homosexuality is given by the traditional master, Hsuan Hua, an important figure for Buddhism in both China and the United States. Master Hsuan Hua stated that homosexuality \"plants the seeds that lead to rebirth in the lower realms of existence\". In his commentary on the Sutra of Forty-two Chapters, he described homosexuality as behavior caused by confusion, as the product of sexual desires.\n\nIn contrast to Buddhism in Asia, modern Buddhism in the Western world is typically associated with a concern for social equality—partly as a result of its largely middle-class intellectual membership base, and its philosophical roots in freethought and secular humanism. When applying Buddhist philosophy to the question of homosexuality, western Buddhists often emphasize the importance the Buddha placed on tolerance, compassion, and seeking answers within one's self. They stress these overarching values rather than examining specific passages or texts. As a result, western Buddhism is often relatively gay-friendly, especially since the 1990s. As interpretation of what is sexual misconduct is an individual decision and not subject to judgment by any central authority, a view of accepting all peoples, but rejecting certain types of sexual acts is more predominant. LGBT people such as Issan Dorsey, Caitriona Reed, Pat Enkyo O'Hara and Soeng Hyang have been ordained as Buddhist monastics and clergy.\n\nHowever, this interpretation of sexual misconduct is only applicable to lay Buddhists or Japanese Buddhism's secular married priests. It is a mistake to assume that it would be applied to monastics at all. In traditional forms of Japanese Buddhism nuns are not allowed sex partners. Neither Theravada or Mahayana traditions of Vinaya traditional Buddhism allow same gender monastics same sex partners. They must be celibate no matter what their sexual orientation or they cannot be considered monks or nuns in monastic Buddhism. Sexuality is not a factor in determination of a qualification of a candidate in full ordination in those traditions that follow traditional Vinaya Buddhism as set forth by the Buddha.—Ven Hong Yang, Bhikshuni 21:16, 9 September 2012 (UTC)\n\nAn interesting position comes from the western scholar Alexander Berzin, \n\nThe Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche, holder of the Karma Kagyu and Nyingma lineages, in a 2008 talk delivered to LGBT Dharma practitioners at the Shambhala Meditation Center of New York, stressed that for vajrayana lay practitioners, homosexual relationships are no better or worse than heterosexual relationships and that only unhealthy relationships in general are to be avoided. Both the Nalandabodhi sangha, which was founded by The Dzogchen Ponlop Rinpoche, and the Shambhala sanghas founded by Chögyam Trungpa Rinpoche have stated that they are welcoming of all sexual orientations. The Shambhala Meditation Center of New York hosts a weekly practice group, Queer Dharma, specifically catering to the needs of the LGBTQ Buddhist community. According to the Danish Karma Kagyu Lama Ole Nydahl, Buddha saw homosexuality as circumstances making life more difficult, but also explained the reason for homosexuality could be aversion against the opposite sex in a former life. Nydahl says however that sexual orientation is not really important in order to practice Buddhism.\n\nThe U.S. branch of Soka Gakkai International, a Japan-based new religious movement (Japanese new religion) influenced by Nichiren Buddhism, announced in 1995 that they would start holding wedding ceremonies for same-sex couples, and in 2001 established a conference for LGBT members and their supporters. A Buddhist temple in Salt Lake City connected with Jodo Shinshu, another Japanese school of Buddhism, also holds religious rites for same-sex couples.\n\nAnother Buddhist organization founded in the West, Juniper Foundation, wrote an article \"A Buddhist Vote for Same Sex Marriage\" demonstrating how Buddhist thinking embraces same-sex marriage:\nThe heart of Buddhist thought is its insight philosophy, which uses critical inquiry to challenge dogma and to reveal how seemingly fixed ideas are more arbitrary than we might think. Applying this philosophy, we see that social customs are not fixed laws but evolving conventions that serve a purpose in a particular culture and time. Marriage is one of these conventions. It is not a rigid law but a social custom that evolves.\n\nOn 2012, the Australian branch of Buddhism voiced its support for same-sex marriage in a hearing of the Australian Parliament that sought to gather views on whether to legalize same-sex marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57485901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57485901", "title": "Carmelite Sisters of the Sacred Hearts", "text": "Carmelite Sisters of the Sacred Hearts\n\nThe Carmelite Sisters of the Sacred Hearts, simply referred to as the Sisters of Carmel, are a monastic order of Carmelite nuns founded in 1987 in Colorado Springs. The foundational mission being to \"preserve the authentic religious life as lived out in the original Rule and customs of Our Holy Mother, St. Teresa of Avila,\" the nuns observe the extraordinary form of the Roman Rite. The Order is closely associated with the Servants of the Holy Family.\n"}
{"id": "4285128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4285128", "title": "Catholic Church in Liechtenstein", "text": "Catholic Church in Liechtenstein\n\nThe Catholic Church in Liechtenstein is part of the worldwide Catholic Church, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope in Rome.\n\nAround three quarters of the population is Catholic. Prior to 1997, the principality was part of the Swiss Diocese of Chur. In 1997, the Archdiocese of Vaduz was created, covering the whole of the principality. The first and to date only archbishop is Wolfgang Haas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "610651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=610651", "title": "Credo quia absurdum", "text": "Credo quia absurdum\n\nCredo quia absurdum is a Latin phrase that means \"I believe because it is absurd\", originally misattributed to Tertullian in his \"De Carne Christi\". The original phrase was \"It is certain because it is unfitting\" in an anti-Marcionite context, however, through early modern, Protestant and Enlightenment rhetoric against Catholicism and religion more broadly, was changed to \"I believe because it is absurd\" for a personally religious context.\n\nThe original phrase, before being transmuted through Enlightenment rhetoric to its modern form \"I believe because it is absurd\", appeared in Tertullian's work \"De Carne Christi\" (\"ca.\" 203-206), read by scholars as \"I believe because it is unfitting\". The context is a defense of the tenets of orthodox Christianity against docetism:\n\nThe consensus of Tertullian scholars is that the reading \"I believe because it is absurd\" sharply diverges from Tertullian's own thoughts, given his placed priority on reasoned argument and rationality in his writings. In the same work, Tertullian later writes \"But here again, I must have some reasons.\" Elsewhere, he writes that the new Christian “should believe nothing but that nothing should be rashly believed.” Scholars note further examples of where Tertullian acts by following a method of reasoned argument. The meaning of the phrase may relate to 1 Corinthians 1:17-31, where something foolish to a human may be a member of God's wisdom, or Tertullian may be repeating an idea rehearsed in Aristotle's Rhetoric, where Aristotle argues that something is more credibly true if it is an incredible claim, on the reason that it would have not been made up if it were truly so incredible to the human mind. Eric Osborn concludes that “the classic formula \"credo quia absurdum\" (even when corrected to \"quia ineptum\") does not represent the thought of Tertullian.\" (But note: the definition of Latin \"ineptus\" also includes silly, senseless, absurd, and inept.)\n\nNo notice was given to this maxim throughout the classical and medieval periods, however, the maxim first began to receive attention and then undergo change during the early modern era. In 1521, the humanist scholar Beatus Rhenanus produced an edition of Tertullian's \"De carne Christi\". The only French translation of this work to appear in the 17th century was Louis Giry's 1661 edition. According to Peter Harrison, the first time that the maxim was quoted was in Thomas Browne's highly influential religious classic Religio Medici (The Religion of a Doctor), ensuring that the maxim received a wide audience at this time, and Browne also shifted the context of the phrase from Tertullian's discourse against Marcion to personal faith, and shifted the phrase from its original \"\"It is certain\", because it is impossible\" to \"\"I believe\", because it is impossible.\" Many of Browne's contemporaries criticized him and Tertullian for this maxim, including Henry More, Edward Stillingfleet, Robert Boyle, and John Locke. As Protestant anti-Catholic polemic and rhetoric grew, many writers began associating certain Catholic doctrines (and later broadly to Christianity itself by some other writers), especially Transubstantiation, with this maxim. The maxim was then brought to a French audience through Pierre Bayle's highly influential 1697 Dictionnaire Historique et Critique, which catalogued controversies of philosophical and religious nature as well as historical events and persons related to them. Then, Voltaire, in his anonymously published Le Dîner du comte de Boulainvillier (1767), took the maxim to the next step and shifted the phrase from \"I believe \"because it is impossible\"\" to \"I believe \"because it is absurd\"\", and Voltaire also attributed it to Augustine instead of Tertullian, a much more central figure in Christian history. The maxim would continue to be attributed to Augustine until Gaston de Flotte noted the original Latin and misattribution by Voltaire, however, the rhetorical appeal of the maxim was great enough that it continued to be widely used, even into the present day, including being used by figures like Sigmund Freud, Ernst Cassirer, Max Weber, Richard Dawkins, Jerry Coyne and even Simon Blackburn's \"Oxford Dictionary of Philosophy\".\n\nThe phrase does not express the Catholic Faith, as explained by Pope Benedict XVI: \"The Catholic Tradition, from the outset, rejected the so-called “fideism”, which is the desire to believe against reason. \"Credo quia absurdum\" (I believe because it is absurd) is not a formula that interprets the Catholic faith.\"\n\nThe phrase is thus sometimes associated with the doctrine of fideism, that is, \"a system of philosophy or an attitude of mind, which, denying the power of unaided human reason to reach certitude, affirms that the fundamental act of human knowledge consists in an act of faith, and the supreme criterion of certitude is authority.\"(\"Catholic Encyclopedia\"). It has also been used, though often in different interpretations, by some existentialists.\n\nThe phrase inspired a celebrated \"bon mot\" by H.L. Mencken: \"Tertullian is credited with the motto \"Credo quia absurdum\"—'I believe because it is impossible'. Needless to say, he began life as a lawyer.\" It has also been adopted as the motto for The Ancient and Honorable Order of E Clampus Vitus in modern times, and was used as an example of zen in D. T. Suzuki's book, Introduction to Zen Buddhism (which was based on essays he wrote in 1914):\n\n\"A noted Christian Father of the early Middle Ages once exclaimed: \"O poor Aristotle! Thou who has discovered for the heretics the art of dialectics, the art of building up and destroying, the art of discussing all things and accomplishing nothing!\" So much ado about nothing, indeed! See how philosophers of all ages contradict one another after spending all their logical acumen and analytical ingenuity on the so-called problems of science and knowledge. No wonder the same old wise man, wanting to put a stop once for all to all such profitless discussions, has boldly thrown the following bomb right into the midst of those sand-builders: \"Certum est quia impossible est\"; or, more logically, \"Credo quia absurdum est\". I believe because it is irrational; is this not an unqualified confirmation of Zen?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "25566420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25566420", "title": "Dronabinol", "text": "Dronabinol\n\nThe International Nonproprietary Name Dronabinol, sold as trade names Marinol and Syndros, is an appetite stimulant, antiemetic, and sleep apnea reliever. It is approved by the FDA, as safe and effective, for HIV/AIDS induced anorexia and chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting only. \n\nOff label use is not allowed. The pharmaceutical formulation, an oily resin in capsules, is available by prescription in the US, Canada, Germany, Australia and New Zealand. Possible exceptions for off label use may be in US states passing laws reserving the right to differ from particular FDA regulations.\n\nDronabinol is the principal psychoactive constituent enantiomer form, (−)-\"trans\"-Δ⁹-tetrahydrocannabinol, found in cannabis. Dronabinol does not include the many other tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) isomers of cannabinoid.\n\nDronabinol demonstrates significant improvement in sleep apnea scores. Phase 2B clinical trials for FDA approval were completed in 2017.\n\nA mild overdose of dronabinol presents drowsiness, dry mouth, euphoria, and tachycardia; whereas a severe overdose presents lethargy, slurred speech, decreased motor coordination, and postural hypotension.\n\nOn May 13, 1986, the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) issued a Final Rule and Statement of Policy authorizing the \"rescheduling of synthetic dronabinol in sesame oil and encapsulated in soft gelatin capsules from Schedule I to Schedule II\" (DEA 51 FR 17476-78). This permitted medical use of Marinol, albeit with the severe restrictions associated with Schedule II status. For instance, refills of Marinol prescriptions were not permitted. At its 10th meeting, on April 29, 1991, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs, in accordance with article 2, paragraphs 5 and 6, of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances, decided that Δ⁹-tetrahydrocannabinol (also referred to as Δ⁹-THC) and its stereochemical variants should be transferred from Schedule I to Schedule II of that Convention. This released Marinol from the restrictions imposed by Article 7 of the Convention (See also United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances).\n\nAn article published in the April–June 1998 issue of the Journal of Psychoactive Drugs found that \"Healthcare professionals have detected no indication of scrip-chasing or doctor-shopping among the patients for whom they have prescribed dronabinol\". The authors state that Marinol has a low potential for abuse.\n\nIn 1999, Marinol was rescheduled from Schedule II to III of the Controlled Substances Act, reflecting a finding that THC had a potential for abuse less than that of cocaine and heroin. This rescheduling constituted part of the argument for a 2002 petition for removal of cannabis from Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act, in which petitioner Jon Gettman noted, \"Cannabis is a natural source of dronabinol (THC), the ingredient of Marinol, a Schedule III drug. There are no grounds to schedule cannabis in a more restrictive schedule than Marinol\".\n\nAt its 33rd meeting, in 2003, the World Health Organization Expert Committee on Drug Dependence recommended transferring THC to Schedule IV of the Convention, citing its medical uses and low abuse potential.\n\nDronabinol is marketed as Marinol and Syndros, a registered trademark of Solvay Pharmaceuticals. Dronabinol is also marketed, sold, and distributed by PAR Pharmaceutical Companies under the terms of a license and distribution agreement with SVC pharma LP, an affiliate of Rhodes Technologies for Marinol and Insys Pharmaceuticals for Syndros. Dronabinol is available as a prescription drug (under Marinol and Syndros ) in several countries including the United States, Germany, South Africa and Australia. In the United States, Marinol is a Schedule III drug, available by prescription, considered to be non-narcotic and to have a low risk of physical or mental dependence. Efforts to get cannabis rescheduled as analogous to Marinol have not succeeded thus far, though a 2002 petition has been accepted by the DEA. As a result of the rescheduling of Marinol from Schedule II to Schedule III, refills are now permitted for this substance. Marinol's U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for medical use has raised much controversy as to why natural THC is considered a schedule I drug.\n\nFemale cannabis plants contain at least 113 cannabinoids, including cannabidiol (CBD), thought to be the major anticonvulsant that helps people with multiple sclerosis; and cannabichromene (CBC), an anti-inflammatory which may contribute to the pain-killing effect of cannabis.\n\nIt takes over one hour for Marinol to reach full systemic effect, compared to seconds or minutes for smoked or vaporized cannabis. Mark Kleiman, director of the Drug Policy Analysis Program at UCLA's School of Public Affairs said of Marinol, \"It wasn't any fun and made the user feel bad, so it could be approved without any fear that it would penetrate the recreational market, and then used as a club with which to beat back the advocates of whole cannabis as a medicine.\" \n\nSome people accustomed to inhaling just enough cannabis smoke to manage symptoms have complained of too-intense intoxication from Marinol's predetermined dosages. Many people using Marinol have said that Marinol produces a more acute psychedelic effect than cannabis, and it has been speculated that this disparity can be explained by the moderating effect of the many non-THC cannabinoids present in cannabis. For that reason, alternative THC-containing medications based on botanical extracts of the cannabis plant such as nabiximols are being developed. \n\nClinical trials comparing the use of cannabis extracts with Marinol in the treatment of cancer cachexia have demonstrated equal efficacy and well-being among subjects in the two treatment arms. United States federal law currently registers dronabinol as a Schedule III controlled substance, but all other cannabinoids remain Schedule I, except synthetics like nabilone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14122129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14122129", "title": "Drstivada", "text": "Drstivada\n\nDrstivāda is a legendary lost text in the Jain religion. It is the last of the 12 Jain āgamas as per Śvetámbara tradition, said to be promulgated by Māhavīra himself and composed by Ganadhara Sudharmaswami. Drstivāda, translated as “Disputation about views”, was said to contain the entire knowledge of the Fourteen Purvas or prior knowledge that is now considered to be totally lost, in part because the tradition holds that the Drstivāda itself is also completely lost. However, its contents have been referred and explained in Nandi and \"Samavāyānga Sūtra\". \n\nDristivāda was divided into five parts :-\n\nParikarma contained Jaina calculatory science and the Sutra included discussions about creeds and doctrines. Purvagata contained fourteen subdivisions and contained discussions about Jaina doctrines and principles. As the name suggests, Purvas contain the knowledge prior to Mahavira which was preserved only in oral form. Pūrvanayoga contained Puranic narratives, religious biographies as well as illustrative tales. \n"}
{"id": "201092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201092", "title": "Earl Doherty", "text": "Earl Doherty\n\nEarl J. Doherty (born 1941) is a Canadian author of \"The Jesus Puzzle\" (1999), \"Challenging the Verdict\" (2001), and \"Jesus: Neither God Nor Man\" (2009). Doherty argues for a version of the Christ myth theory, the thesis that Jesus did not exist as a historical figure. Doherty says that Paul thought of Jesus as a spiritual being executed in a spiritual realm.\n\nDoherty has stated he has a bachelor's degree in Ancient History and Classical Languages, but no completed advanced degrees. His undergraduate studies gave him knowledge of Greek and Latin, to which he has added a basic knowledge of Hebrew and Syriac.\n\nDoherty was introduced to the idea of a mythical origin of Jesus by, among other things, the work of G. A. Wells, who has authored a number of books arguing a moderate form of the \"Christ myth\" theory. In 1999, Doherty's book \"The Jesus Puzzle: Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ?\" was published by Canadian Humanist Publications. He self-published a 2005 re-release of \"The Jesus Puzzle\" under his own imprint, Age of Reason Publications, along with two other books. \"Challenging the Verdict\" (2001) is a critique of \"The Case for Christ\", a book of Christian apologetics by author Lee Strobel. \"Jesus: Neither God Nor Man - The Case for a Mythical Jesus\" (2009) is a revised and expanded version of \"The Jesus Puzzle\". In 2012, Doherty published \"The End of an Illusion: How Bart Ehrman's\" \"Did Jesus Exist?\" \"Has Laid the Case for an Historical Jesus to Rest.\"\n\nDoherty asserts that Christianity began with a belief in a spiritual, mythical figure, that the Gospels are essentially allegory and fiction, and that no single identifiable person named Jesus lay at the root of the Galilean preaching tradition.\" Doherty argues in \"The Jesus Puzzle\" (2005) and \"Jesus: Neither God nor Man—The Case for a Mythical Jesus\" (2009) that Jesus originated as a myth derived from Middle Platonism with some influence from Jewish mysticism, and that belief in a historical Jesus emerged only among Christian communities in the 2nd century.\n\nAccording to Doherty, none of the major Christian apologists before 180 AD, except for Justin and Aristides of Athens, included an account of a historical Jesus in their defenses of Christianity. Instead Doherty suggests that the early Christian writers describe a Christian movement grounded in Platonic philosophy and Hellenistic Judaism, reaching the worship of a monotheistic Jewish god and what he calls a \"logos-type Son\". Doherty further argues that Theophilus of Antioch (c. 163–182), Athenagoras of Athens (c. 133–190), Tatian the Assyrian (c. 120–180), and Marcus Minucius Felix (writing around 150–270) offer no indication that they believed in a historical figure crucified and resurrected, and that the name Jesus does not appear in any of them.\n\nDoherty has used the title \"The Jesus Puzzle\" for four different works. \n\n\nIn all four of these works, Doherty presents views on the origins of Christianity, specifically promoting the view that Jesus is a mythical figure rather than a historical person. Doherty argues that Paul and other writers of the earliest existing proto-Christian Gnostic documents did not believe in Jesus as a person who incarnated on Earth in a historical setting. Rather, they believed in Jesus as a heavenly being who suffered his sacrificial death in the lower spheres of heaven in the hands of the demon spirits, and was subsequently resurrected by God. This Christ myth was not based on a tradition reaching back to a historical Jesus, but on the Old Testament exegesis in the context of Jewish-Hellenistic religious syncretism heavily influenced by Middle Platonism, and what the authors believed to be mystical visions of a risen Jesus.\n\nDoherty says that the Jesus myth was given a historical setting only by the second generation of Christians, somewhere between the 1st and 2nd century. He further says that even the author of the Gospel of Mark probably did not consider his gospel to be a literal work of history, but an allegorical midrashic composition based on the Old Testament prophecies. In the widely supported two-source hypothesis, the story of Mark was later fused with a separate tradition of anonymous sayings embodied in the Q document into the other gospels. According to Doherty, the Q-authors may have regarded themselves as \"spokespersons for the Wisdom of God,\" with Jesus being the embodiment of this Wisdom. In time, the gospel-narrative of this embodiment of Wisdom became interpreted as the literal history of the life of Jesus. Doherty denies any historical value of the Acts of the Apostles, and refers to works by John Knox, Joseph B. Tyson, J.C. O'Neill, Burton L. Mack and Richard Pervo in dating Acts into the 2nd century and regarding it as largely based on legend.\n\nIn 2009 Doherty self-published a revised edition of his book, with a new title of \"Jesus: Neither God nor Man\", expanded by incorporating the rebuttals to criticisms received since 1999 and accumulated on his website.\n\nAmong authors sympathetic to the view that Jesus never existed, Doherty's work has received mixed reactions. \"The Jesus Puzzle\" has received favorable reviews from fellow mythicists Robert M. Price and Richard Carrier. Frank Zindler, former editor of \"American Atheist\", in a review of \"The Jesus Puzzle\" described it as \"the most compelling argument against the historical Jesus published in my life-time\".\n\nGeorge Albert Wells, who now argues a more moderate form of the Christ myth and who rejects Doherty's view that the mythical Jesus of Paul did not also descend to Earth, has nonetheless described \"The Jesus Puzzle\" as an \"important book\". R. Joseph Hoffmann considers that there are \"reasons for scholars to hold\" the view that Jesus never existed, but considers Doherty \"A 'disciple' of Wells\" who \"has rehashed many of the former’s views in \"The Jesus Puzzle\" (Age of Reason Publications, 2005) which is qualitatively and academically far inferior to anything so far written on the subject\". Doherty has responded that his work owes very little to Wells.\n\nWriters who do not necessarily support the hypothesis that Jesus did not exist have found merit in some of Doherty's arguments. Hector Avalos has written that \"\"The Jesus Puzzle\" outlines a plausible theory for a completely mythical Jesus.\"\n\nBart Ehrman, an expert on textual criticism of the NT and Early Christianity, has dismissed \"Jesus, Neither God nor Man\" as \"filled with so many unguarded and undocumented statements and claims, and so many misstatements of fact, that it would take a 2,400-page book to deal with all the problems... Not a single early Christian source supports Doherty's claim that Paul and those before him thought of Jesus as a spiritual, not a human being, who was executed in the spiritual, not the earthly realm.\"\n\nIn a book criticizing the Christ myth theory, New Testament scholar Maurice Casey describes Doherty as \"perhaps the most influential of all the mythicists\", but one who is unable to understand the ancient texts he uses in his arguments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2293458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2293458", "title": "Emotional tone scale", "text": "Emotional tone scale\n\nIn Scientology, the tone scale or emotional tone scale is a characterization of human behavior. It is based on the idea that some people appear to be more lively and alive than other people and this increased liveliness is orderly. Scientology Founder L. Ron Hubbard spelled the idea out saying, \"just draw a horizontal line on the page. Put the people who are less alive on the bottom and the people who are more alive on the top.\"\n\nIn his 1951 book \"Science of Survival\", Hubbard expanded the idea into many increments. The idea states that a \"tone\" has many manifestations including appearance, chronic emotion, the way the person handles other people, how well the person can pass on a communication given to them, and other characteristics.\n\nHubbard devised the \"Tone Scale\" in 1951 as a tool for auditors in Scientology. Scientologists believe it intends to classify people in a range or scale according to how spiritually alive and how dead a person is, both personally and in their relationships with others. It prescribes auditing procedures to use with a person depending where they are on the scale.\n\nHubbard expanded on the idea and created 59 increments which he numbered from −40 (total failure) to +40 (serenity of beingness). Hubbard's full scale appears on the right. According to Scientologists, a person chronically focused on death and destruction is at the low end of the tone scale, while a person focused on creativity is at the high end of the scale.\n\nA noteworthy mechanism of the scale involves a person as they approach and react to pain. As a person approaches pain, they allegedly become more antagonistic and less cheerful. It is purported by Hubbard that after receiving pain, they will be angry about it, and then, if the pain persists, can become more overwhelmed by it, progressing down through fear, grief, apathy, into failure, etc. Auditing allegedly reverses this path. Scientologists aim to be at the higher levels of the tone scale and believe that Scientology auditing will move them to a higher average level on the tone scale.\n\nWhile a person can rationally be any place on the tone scale due to circumstances, Scientologists argue that one should not, under normal circumstances, be stuck any particular place on the scale. Also, in Scientology one can be at various places on the tone scale in different areas of life, such as being chronically \"high on\" oneself and chronically \"down on\" people or one's partner. Such discrepancy is allegedly an indication of a problem.\n\nThe ultimate goal of Scientology is claimed to be \"a free being\". By Scientology's definition, a free being can be, but does not have to be, any place on the scale. A free being does not have to avoid certain areas of the scale, although one could as a matter of choice or taste.\n\nAllegedly, the lower a person is on the scale, the more complex and solid their problems are and the more effort it takes to make even a little positive and real long-term gain for that person. Thus, spotting a person low on the scale allows one to make a decision regarding how careful or involved one should become in dealing with that person.\n\nAccording to author Lawrence Wright, Scientology's theory on the highest levels of the tone scale is “characterized by monogamy, constancy, a pleasurable attitude toward sex, and an intense interest in children.” Hubbard claims however, that sexual desire is sublimed into “pure creative thought,” superseding the desire to procreate.\n\nIn addition to the original Tone Scale and the later, expanded one, there is also an \"Emotional Tone Scale\" and a \"Reality Spotting by E-Meter\" scale that lists expected E-meter reactions when encountering each portion of the Tone Scale. These, and other related scales and charts, are found in Hubbard's book \"Scientology 0-8: The Book of Basics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6434550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6434550", "title": "Eulogia", "text": "Eulogia\n\nThe term eulogia (ευλογία), Greek for \"a blessing\", has been applied in ecclesiastical usage to \"a blessed object\". It was occasionally used in early times to signify the Holy Eucharist, and in this sense is especially frequent in the writings of St. Cyril of Alexandria. The origin of this use is doubtless to be found in the words of St. Paul (1 Corinthians 10:16); \"to poterion tes eulogias ho eulogoumen\". But the more general use is for such objects as bread, wine etc., which it was customary to distribute after the celebration of the Divine Mysteries. Bread so blessed, we learn from St. Augustine (De pecat. merit., ii, 26), was customarily distributed in his time to catechumens, and he even gives it the name of sacramentum, as having received the formal blessing of the Church: \"\"Quod acceperunt catechumeni, quamvis non sit corpus Christi, sanctum tamen est, et sanctius quam cibi quibus alimur, quoniam sacramentum est\" (What the catechumens receive, though it is not the Body of Christ, is holy — holier, indeed, than our ordinary food, since it is a sacramentum). For the extension of this custom in later ages, see Antidoron; Sacramental bread.\n\nThe word eulogia has a special use in connection with monastic life. In the Benedictine Rule monks are forbidden to receive \"litteras, eulogias, vel quaelibet munuscula\"\" without the abbot's leave. Here the word may be used in the sense of blessed bread only, but it seems to have a wider signification, and to designate any kind of present. There was a custom in monasteries of distributing in the refectories, after Mass, the eulogiae of bread blessed at the Mass.\n"}
{"id": "3735397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3735397", "title": "Firekeeper", "text": "Firekeeper\n\nFirekeeper or flametender describes a specific ceremonial role, common in the religious practices of a variety of cultures. A firekeeper or flametender tends the sacred fire in the manner specific to the religious traditions of that culture.\n\nIn many ancient civilizations the open flame has served as both a central spiritual or religious symbol, as well as played a central role in basic human survival. Similarly, those entrusted with tending this flame often held a sacral role in the culture. This role continues in some traditional cultures into the present day. \n\nA sacred fire is often a place for the offering of prayers, herbs, food, and sacrifices of artwork. An eternal or perpetual flame provides hot coals for the kindling of other fires in the community. A sacred fire is usually kept separate from any cooking fire, and may be placed in or near a ceremonial enclosure. \n\nIn the past world of no matches, and no easy ways of making fire under wet conditions, it was necessary for someone to always be present to keep the flames or red coals burning for long periods of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "54374567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54374567", "title": "From the Caves and Jungles of Hindostan", "text": "From the Caves and Jungles of Hindostan\n\nFrom the Caves and Jungles of Hindostan: Letters to the Homeland (Pre-reform Russian: «Изъ пеще́ръ и де́брей Индоста́на: пи́сьма на ро́дину»; tr. \"Iz peshcher i debrei Indostana: pis'ma na rodinu\") is a literary work by the founder of the Theosophical Society Helena Blavatsky. She published it under the pen name Radda Bai in serial installments (letters) from 1879 to 1886 in Moscow in the periodicals \"Moskovskiya Vedomosti\" and \"Russkiy Vestnik,\" edited by Mikhail Katkov. The first part of these letters was published in a single volume in 1883 as an appendix to the journal \"Russkiy Vestnik.\" The second part of the letters was published in 1884–1886. The series obviously was never finished as it broke off rather suddenly.\n\nThe Russian literary critic noted that this Blavatsky's book has \"somewhat a mystical coloring\" due to numerous stories and the author's arguments about the secret wisdom of the Hindus, which does not detract from its literary significance. The close acquaintance of the writer with the Indian sights allows her to be very entertaining to talk about the \"most diverse aspects of the life\" in modern and ancient India. Simply, \"but very artistically,\" she describes the covering India from immemorial times magnificent buildings, on which the past millenniums had no influence. \n\"Especially she is being occupied a mysterious sect of raj-yogis, the holy sages, who, through the special exertion of their spiritual forces, something like a long spiritual gymnastics, reach the ability to perform undoubted miracles: so, Blavatsky's personally acquaintance raj-yogi Gulab-Singh had been answering the questions which Blavatsky was demanding only mentally, had been disappearing and appearing completely unexpectedly for everyone, had been opening to them in the mountains the mysterious entrances through which they were entering the marvelous underground temples, etc.\"\n\nSenkevich wrote that these essays by Blavatsky had a \"stunning success\" in Russia. He stated that Blavatsky demonstrates in this work an enviable erudition and liveliness of the mind. In a sense, her book is a country-specific encyclopaedia, which and \"to this day has not lost its scientific value.\" The author's desire to disclose India \"from within,\" through people with whom she was throwed by her fate, gives the book, in comparison with the usual travel essays, a \"special, completely new character of the psychological document reflecting many facets of the Indian spiritual world, the specificity of the life of traditional Indian society.\" The book gives also an objective assessment of the English colonial rule, all the more important because it contains the condemnation of the Englishmen living in India, despite the \"truthful, depressing descriptions of atrocities\" against them by the participants the Sepoy uprising (1857–1859).\n\nAccording to Senkevich, Blavatsky expresses her indignation at the English colonial orders, contempt for the pleasures and amusements of the British officials and the Anglo-Indians, who served them, \"in a sarcastic and vitriolic manner,\" and the reader, empathizing with her \"violent emotions, willy-nilly takes her side.\" She took into account the stereotypes of the average Russian reader's thinking, his \"phobias, geopolitical views and cultural predilections.\" Here is one example of her emotional reasoning on the subject of the English suspiciousness and jealousy:\n\"This national characteristic of the English to shout: 'Help, they are killing us!' when nobody even thinks of touching them, is disgusting… But if this trait is notable even in England, how much more so is it in India? Here suspicion has become a monomania. Anglo-Indians see Russian spies even in their own shoes, and this drives them to madness… They watch every new arrival from one province to another, even should he be an Englishman. People have been deprived not only of every weapon, but of all knives and axes. The peasant can hardly chop his wood, or protect himself from a tiger. But the English are still afraid. It is true that here there are but 60,000 of them, while the native population numbers 245 million. And their system which they took over from successful animal-tamers, is good only until the animal senses his tamer is fearful in his turn… Then his hour has come! At all events, such a manifestation of chronic fear merely admits a recognition of one's own weakness.\"\n\nVera Johnston, the first translator of the work, wrote that author's manuscript \"was often incorrect; often obscure.\" The Russian editors, though they did their best to transfer faithfully the Indian names and places, \"often produced, through their ignorance of Oriental tongues, forms which are strange, and sometimes unrecognizable.\"\n\"The proof-sheets were never corrected by the author, who was then in India; and, in consequence, it has been impossible to restore all the local and personal names to their proper form. A similar difficulty has arisen with reference to quotations and cited authorities, all of which have gone through a double process of refraction: first into Russian, then into English.\"\nSolovyov noted that Blavatsky was in her lifetime very troubled that the English should not know contents of the book, \"as she wrote for Russian readers, and was not sparing of ridicule and censure against the Anglo-Indian Government and its representatives.\" He claimed also that the reader of the book must look on it as \"romance and fancy, and must on no account take on trust the facts and statements\" given by Blavatsky because \"most bitter disenchantment awaits the too trustful reader.\" Murphet wrote that Blavatsky's work is \"a highly imaginative concoction of fact-and-fiction, written in a style that established her literary reputation with Russian editors.\"\n\nAccording to Senkevich, in the 1870s and 1880s, a lot of materials appeared in Russian magazines and newspapers, the keynote being the \"idea of a Russian war campaign to India.\" The writer's fame of Blavatsky has been created in the \"wake of this propaganda hype.\"\n\n\nThis work has been translated into English two times. The first translation appeared in 1892 in London but was not complete. It was done by Vera Johnston, Blavatsky's niece. A new 1975 translation by Boris de Zirkoff (also Blavatsky's relative) is now available in author's \"Collected Writings\" series. Subsequently, the book was repeatedly reprinted, in English, Russian and Spanish.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2974171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2974171", "title": "Hadas", "text": "Hadas\n\nHadas (; acronym: or or Islamic Constitutional Movement) is a Kuwaiti Islamist political organization. The party is an offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood.\n\nHadas was established on 31 March 1991 following the liberation of Kuwait from the Iraqi invasion in the Gulf War. The group of people who started the Movement and still control it are Kuwaiti Islamists following the ideology of the Muslim Brotherhood, most notably is Jassem Mohalhel.\n\nBader Al-Nashi was secretary general of Hadas between 2003 and July 2009. Its current secretary general is Mohammad Al-Olaim. It has four members in the current National Assembly of Kuwait.\n\n"}
{"id": "162789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162789", "title": "Hagiography", "text": "Hagiography\n\nA hagiography (; ) is a biography of a saint or an ecclesiastical leader. The term \"hagiography\" may be used to refer to the biography of a saint or highly developed spiritual being in any of the world's spiritual traditions.\n\nChristian hagiographies focus on the lives, and notably the miracles, ascribed to men and women canonized by the Roman Catholic church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the Oriental Orthodox churches, and the Church of the East. Other religious traditions such as Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Sikhism and Jainism also create and maintain hagiographical texts (such as the Sikh Janamsakhis) concerning saints, gurus and other individuals believed to be imbued with sacred power.\n\nHagiographic works, especially those of the Middle Ages, can incorporate a record of institutional and local history, and evidence of popular cults, customs, and traditions. However, when referring to modern, non-ecclesiastical works, the term \"hagiography\" is often used as a pejorative reference to biographies and histories whose authors are perceived to be uncritical of or reverential to their subject.\n\nHagiography constituted an important literary genre in the early Christian church, providing some informational history along with the more inspirational stories and legends. A hagiographic account of an individual saint can consist of a biography (\"vita\"), a description of the saint's deeds or miracles, an account of the saint's martyrdom (\"passio\"), or be a combination of these.\n\nThe genre of lives of the saints first came into being in the Roman Empire as legends about Christian martyrs were recorded. The dates of their deaths formed the basis of martyrologies. In the 4th century, there were three main types of catalogs of lives of the saints:\n\nIn Western Europe hagiography was one of the more important vehicles for the study of inspirational history during the Middle Ages. The \"Golden Legend\" of Jacob de Voragine compiled a great deal of medieval hagiographic material, with a strong emphasis on miracle tales. Lives were often written to promote the cult of local or national states, and in particular to develop pilgrimages to visit relics. The bronze Gniezno Doors of Gniezno Cathedral in Poland are the only Romanesque doors in Europe to feature the life of a saint. The life of Saint Adalbert of Prague, who is buried in the cathedral, is shown in 18 scenes, probably based on a lost illuminated copy of one of his Lives.\n\nThe Bollandist Society continues the study, academic assembly, appraisal and publication of materials relating to the lives of Christian saints. (See \"Acta Sanctorum\".)\n\nMany of the important hagiographical texts composed in medieval England were written in the vernacular dialect Anglo-Norman. With the introduction of Latin literature into England in the 7th and 8th centuries the genre of the life of the saint grew increasingly popular. When one contrasts it to the popular heroic poem, such as \"Beowulf\", one finds that they share certain common features. In \"Beowulf\", the titular character battles against Grendel and his mother, while the saint, such as Athanasius' Anthony (one of the original sources for the hagiographic motif) or the character of Guthlac, battles against figures no less substantial in a spiritual sense. Both genres then focus on the hero-warrior figure, but with the distinction that the saint is of a spiritual sort.\n\nImitation of the life of Christ was then the benchmark against which saints were measured, and imitation of the lives of saints was the benchmark against which the general population measured itself. In Anglo-Saxon and medieval England, hagiography became a literary genre par excellence for the teaching of a largely illiterate audience. Hagiography provided priests and theologians with classical handbooks in a form that allowed them the rhetorical tools necessary to present their faith through the example of the saints' lives.\n\nOf all the English hagiographers no one was more prolific nor so aware of the importance of the genre as Abbot Ælfric of Eynsham. His work \"Lives of the Saints\" contains set of sermons on saints' days, formerly observed by the English Church. The text comprises two prefaces, one in Latin and one in Old English, and 39 lives beginning on December 25 with the nativity of Christ and ending with three texts to which no saints' days are attached. The text spans the entire year and describes the lives of many saints, both English and continental, and hearkens back to some of the earliest saints of the early church.\n\nThere are two known instances where saint's lives were adapted into vernacular plays in Britain. These are the Cornish-language works \"Beunans Meriasek\" and \"Beunans Ke\", about the lives of Saints Meriasek and Kea, respectively.\n\nOther examples of hagiographies from England include:\n\nIreland is notable in its rich hagiographical tradition, and for the large amount of material which was produced during the Middle Ages. Irish hagiographers wrote primarily in Latin while some of the later saint's lives were written in the hagiographer's native vernacular Irish. Of particular note are the lives of St. Patrick, St. Columba (Latin)/Colm (Irish) and St. Brigit/Brigid—Ireland's three patron saints. Additionally, several Irish calendars relating to the feastdays of Christian saints (sometimes called martyrologies or feastologies) contained abbreviated synopses of saint's lives, which were compiled from many different sources. Notable examples include the Martyrology of Tallaght and the Félire Óengusso. Such hagiographical calendars were important in establishing lists of native Irish saints, in imitation of continental calendars.\n\nIn the 10th century, a Byzantine monk Simeon Metaphrastes was the first one to change the genre of lives of the saints into something different, giving it a moralizing and panegyrical character. His catalog of lives of the saints became the standard for all of the Western and Eastern hagiographers, who would create relative biographies and images of the ideal saints by gradually departing from the real facts of their lives. Over the years, the genre of lives of the saints had absorbed a number of narrative plots and poetic images (often, of pre-Christian origin, such as dragon fighting etc.), mediaeval parables, short stories and anecdotes.\n\nThe genre of lives of the saints was introduced in the Slavic world in the Bulgarian Empire in the late 9th and early 10th century, where the first original hagiographies were produced on Cyril and Methodius, Clement of Ohrid and Naum of Preslav. Eventually the Bulgarians brought this genre to Kievan Rus' together with writing and also in translations from the Greek language. In the 11th century, the Rus' began to compile the original life stories of the first Rus'ian saints, e.g. Boris and Gleb, Theodosius Pechersky etc. In the 16th century, Metropolitan Macarius expanded the list of the Rus'ian saints and supervised the compiling process of their life stories. They would all be compiled in the so-called \"Velikiye chet'yi-minei\" catalog (Великие Четьи-Минеи, or Great Menaion Reader), consisting of 12 volumes in accordance with each month of the year. They were revised and expanded by St. Dimitry of Rostov in 1684–1705.\n\nToday, the works in the genre of lives of the saints represent a valuable historical source and reflection of different social ideas, world outlook and aesthetic concepts of the past.\n\nTraditional Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church hagiography in Ge'ez language is known as the \"Gadl\" (Saint's Life). They are, in addition of the Axumite inscriptions and the Ethiopian Royal Chronicles, among the most important Medieval Ethiopian written sources. However, their historical accuracy is in question. They were created by the disciples of the saints. Some were written a long time after the death of a saint, but others were written not long after the saint's demise.\n\nHagiography in Islam began in the Arabic language with biographical writing about the Prophet Muhammad in the eighth century CE, a tradition known as \"sīra\". From about the tenth century CE, however, a genre generally known as \"manāqib\" also emerged, which comprised biographies of the imams (\"madhāhib\") who founded different schools of Islamic thought (\"madhhab\") about \"shariʿa\", and of Ṣūfī saints. Over time, hagiography about Ṣūfīs and their miracles came to predominate in the genre of \"manāqib\".\n\nLikewise influenced by early Islamic research into hadiths and other biographical information about the Prophet, Persian scholars began writing Persian hagiography, again mainly of Sūfī saints, in the eleventh century CE.\n\nThe Islamicisation of the Turkish regions led to the development of Turkish biographies of saints, beginning in the thirteenth century CE and gaining pace around the sixteenth. Production remained dynamic and kept pace with scholarly developments in historical biographical writing until 1925, when Mustafa Kemal Atatürk (d. 1938) placed an interdiction on Ṣūfī brotherhoods. As Turkey relaxed legal restrictions on Islamic practice in the 1950s and the 1980s, Ṣūfīs returned to publishing hagiography, a trend with continues in the twenty-first century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3125011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3125011", "title": "Herbert Pagani", "text": "Herbert Pagani\n\nHerbert Avraham Haggiag Pagani (25 April 1944 in Tripoli – 16 August 1988 in Palm Springs, California) was an Italian artist and musician.\n\nPagani was born in a Jewish family in Libya when it was an Italian Colonial Administration. He spent his childhood and adolescence between Italy, Germany and France. This nonstop wandering about different cultures drove him to seek out a personal language that would enable him to express himself non-verbally, and he started drawing. \n\nIn 1964 Pagani, at the age of twenty, had his first exhibition at the Pierre Picard Gallery in Cannes, where he exhibited a group of Indian-ink drawings and engravings. The French poet Jean Rousselot wrote an enthusiastic review in \"Planete\", describing Pagani as a \"Twenty-years-old Visionary\". Among his first Italian collectors were Giorgio Soavi, Federico Fellini, Bernardino Zapponi and the Olivetti Collection. Shortly afterwards, he was invited to contribute a series of drawings for the Planète review edited by Jacques Bergier and Louis Pauwels, becoming one of the youngest exponents of the Fantastic Realism. In 1965 Pagani illustrated \"Fantarca\" by Giuseppe Berto for Rizzoli, and \"Brave New World\" by Aldous Huxley for the Club des Amis du Livre.\n\nParallel to art, Pagani pursued an interest in music. His first Italian album was released in 1967. In 1969, the day after Colonel Muammar Gaddafi coup d'état, the Libyan police broke into Pagani's family's house in Tripoli. A hundred and fifty canvases and drawings were destroyed. His first French album, chronicling those events, was released in 1970. Pagani designed the covers of his records, and the stage designs of his shows.\n\nIn 1971, Pagani had a solo exhibition at the Théâtre de la Ville in Paris called \"Concerto d'Italie\" where he did a performance inside his drawings projected on a large screen by Laser Graphics Group. This was the first Diaporama exhibition staged in Europe. Less interested in a single technique than in investigating the correlation among all the techniques he was to try out, Pagani declared that \"Engraving on stone, or vinyl, is the same thing. It is more important to establish one' s mental and emotional territory with all available means\". \n\nIn 1973 Pagani used documentary footage made available by the Italian Television Corporation to produce and direct a 27-minute movie-pamphlet entitled \"Venise, amore mio\" which Unesco defined as \"the best vehicle of information on the dangers besetting Venice and its lagoon\". French Television broadcast it twice, on Antenne 2.\n\nIn 1975, Pagani composed the music and designed the stage set for \"Megalopolis\" a total-opera based on \"Medioevo Prossimo Venturo\" (The near future middleages) with a libretto by Roberto Vacca. In order to represent the congestion and collapse of the Energy Systems as described by the Italian futurologist, Pagani proceeded to clone on thousands of images of modern civilization using the first two Rank Xerox colour duplicators installed in France and in Italy. The \"xerographies\" assembled on large plates were photographed, projected and animated in \"Multimage\" shows on giant screens. \"Megalopolis\" was selected by the French Ministry of Culture for the re-opening of the Palais de Chaillot at the Trocadero. It was subsequently staged at Festival dei Due Mondi in Spoleto. In 1976 it received the \"Grand Prize of Academy Charles Cros\".\n\nIn 1977 Pagani experimented with abstraction, mostly with a video-synthetizers devised by the French electronics engineer Marcel Dupouy. Despite his keen interest in technology, Pagani never refrained from using paper, pencils, paints and brushes. Influenced by Arte povera, he started working with discarded materials he would collect from beaches and in dumps across Europe. His sculptures, mostly made of old shoes, were exhibited at Centro internazionale di Brera, Milan and Palazzo dei Diamanti, Ferrara.\n\nPagani died of leukaemia, aged 44 in Palm Springs.\nPagani is buried in Tel Aviv Kyriat Shaul cemetery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33933337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33933337", "title": "Humanist Society (Singapore)", "text": "Humanist Society (Singapore)\n\nHumanist Society (Singapore) is registered in 2010 as a society in Singapore for humanists, freethinkers, atheists, agnostics and other like-minded people. The non-religious make up 17% of the Singapore population as of last available Census in 2010.\n\nThe society's objective is to work to raise awareness on how a secular and non-religious segment of Singapore's population has contributed to the progress of Singapore as a nation and a member of the global community, and that a rational, non-dogmatic approach to social issues ought not be taken for granted.\n\nAside from their work towards maintaining a secular space in society, the Society hold events relating to Humanism, critical thinking and provide a social space for like-minded people to hold discussions. Events include talks by prominent Humanists, professionals in the sciences, forums and social get-togethers.\n\nThe 3 main celebratory events of the year are Humanist of the Year Award, Darwin Day and the Winter Solstice. Most of their events are opened to both members and non-members.\n\nThe society is also linked to other non-religious networks in Southeast Asia, being listed on the Southeast Asian Atheists website.\n\nIn 2008, the Singapore Humanism Meetup was formed as a social network of secular humanists, atheists and agnostics. They had been meeting regularly to discuss current social issues. The network, which uses a website to organize social gatherings, has over 500 members registered online, meeting in various locations over town to hold workshops, talks and book clubs. In 2009, the network also held the first Darwin Day in Singapore to celebrate the 200th birthday of Charles Darwin.\n\nIn October 2010, the Humanist Society of Singapore became the first humanist group to be gazetted as a society. Many pioneer members of the society met at gatherings organised by the Singapore Humanism Meetup.\n\nIn 2011, the Humanist Society organised its first Humanist of the Year award. The award was given to Singaporean author Catherine Lim.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13142385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13142385", "title": "Ibadat Khana", "text": "Ibadat Khana\n\nThe Ibādat Khāna (\"House of Worship\") was a meeting house built in 1575 CE by the Mughal Emperor Akbar (r. 1556–1605) at Fatehpur Sikri to gather spiritual leaders of different religious grounds so as to conduct a discussion on the teachings of the respective religious leaders.\n\nAkbar built the Ibādat Khāna as a debating house. He encouraged Hindus, Roman Catholics, Zoroastrians, Jains and even atheists to participate. Religious leaders and philosophers from around this diverse empire, as well as those passing through, were invited to Akbar's Thursday evening discussions. Akbar's spiritual inclinations were roused to a large extent by the example of Sulaiman Kirani, a past ruler of Bengal, who was said to spend nights in the company of over a hundred ratiocinating spiritual men. Akbar also wanted to sharpen his theological grasp because he had been told of the imminent arrival to his court of Mirza Sulaiman of Badakshan, a Sufi with a predilection for spiritual debates.\n\nBy the late 1580s CE, Akbar began an attempt to reconcile the differences of all religions by creating a new faith, the Din-i-Ilahi (\"Faith of the Divine\"), which incorporated both pantheistic versions of Islamic Sufism (most notably Ibn Arabi's doctrine of \"Wahdat al wajood\" or Unity of Existence) and \"bhakti\" or devotional movements of Hinduism. Even some elements of Christianity (like crosses), Zoroastrianism (fire ceremonies) and Jainism were amalgamated in the new religion. Akbar was greatly influenced by the teachings of Jain Acharyas Hir Vijay Suri and Jin Chandra Suri and gave up non-vegetarian food because of their influence. He declared \"Amari\" or non-killing of animals on the holy days of Jains like Paryushan and Mahavir Jayanti. He rolled back the Jizya tax from Jain pilgrimage places like Palitana.\n\nThis faith, however, was not for the masses. In fact, the only \"converts\" to this new religion were the upper nobility of Akbar's court. Historians have so far been able to identify only 18 members of this new religion.\n\nAlfred, Lord Tennyson's poem \"Akbar’s Dream\" lauds the Ibādat Khāna, ascribing tolerance and humanity to his \"Divine Faith\", while implicitly criticising the intolerance of 19th century British Protestant Christianity.\nDifferent archaeologists and historians had different thoughts on the location of Ibadat Khana. Saeed Ahmed Mararavi, followed by Athar Abbas Rizvi and Vincent Flynn suggested that the mound between Jama Masjid and Jodha Bai's Mahal is the site of Ibadat Khana. However, they had no tangible proof to support their argument. In early 1980s, KK Muhammed working under Prof. R. C. Gaur of Aligarh Muslim University excavated the mound and found the steps, platforms and boundary wall, which matched the painting of Ibadat Khana from Akbar's period.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1448949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448949", "title": "John Paulk", "text": "John Paulk\n\nJohn Paulk (born April 13, 1963) is a gay man who, from 1998 to 2003, was an advocate of the ex-gay movement and conversion therapy. In April 2013, Paulk disavowed his belief in gay reparative therapy and issued a formal apology for his role as an advocate of the movement.\n\nHe founded and led the ministry Love Won Out, which was launched by the organization Focus on the Family. From 1998 to 2003, he was chairman of the board of Exodus International North America. His 1998 autobiography \"Not Afraid to Change\" addressed his sexuality and attempts to change his same-sex desires. Later that year, after it was revealed that Paulk attended a gay bar, both organizations disciplined him, but he remained with Focus on the Family until 2003. He resigned as Exodus board chairman but continued his elected position until his term was completed. In 2005, Paulk opened a catering business in Portland, Oregon.\n\nBy 2013 he had divorced his wife Anne Paulk and no longer supported the ex-gay movement or efforts to attempt to change individuals' sexual orientation\n\nA native of the Columbus, Ohio, Paulk attended Fort Hayes High School for the Performing Arts and The Ohio State University, where he majored in music/voice. During the late 1980s, Paulk managed Cocolat, a San Francisco patisserie owned by Alice Medrich.\n\nPaulk claimed that he overcame his homosexuality following his conversion to Christianity, through a combination of counseling, groups, prayer, and his relationship with God. He identified himself as a heterosexual. Paulk's wife, Anne, also identified as ex-gay. John Paulk co-wrote the books \"Not Afraid to Change\" with Tony Marko and \"Love Won Out\" with Anne Paulk.\n\nPaulk became involved with Focus on the Family, where he was manager of the organization's Homosexuality and Gender Division. In August 1995, Paulk was elected Chairman of the board of Exodus International North America for a three-year term. He was subsequently re-elected to a second three-year term in 1998. As an employee of Focus on the Family, Paulk toured the United States, speaking of his conversions at Love Won Out conferences. Paulk and his wife became the faces promoting Exodus ministries in major daily newspaper full page ads. The couple appeared on the cover of \"Newsweek\" (August 1998), when the publication covered Exodus and the ex-gay movement. That year, Christian right groups including the Family Research Council and the American Family Association spent $600,000 on advertising promoting conversion therapy.\n\nPaulk left \"ex-gay\" ministry work in 2003 and moved to Portland, Oregon, with his wife and family. The couple started a catering business in 2005, and he appeared regularly in cooking segments on Portland television. In February 2015, Paulk appeared on the Food Network program \"Cutthroat Kitchen\", hosted by Alton Brown. Paulk came in second place.\n\nOn September 19, 2000 while on a speaking tour, Paulk was seen sitting inside at the Washington, D.C. gay bar Mr. P's. A patron recognized him and contacted Wayne Besen of the Human Rights Campaign, Truth Wins Out, and other gay political action organizations. When Besen arrived at the bar 40 minutes later and confronted Paulk, Paulk denied that he was John Paulk, instead insisting he was \"John Clint\". Upon exiting the bar, Paulk's picture was taken as evidence that he had been in the bar. When confronted by Besen about the incident and the photographs, Paulk admitted being in the bar, but stated that he didn't know that it was a gay bar, and he had simply stopped in for a moment to use the restroom. However, eyewitnesses reported that Paulk stayed for more than an hour, flirted with other men, and—when questioned about his sexuality—said that he was gay.\n\nPaulk was called back to Focus on the Family headquarters and questioned by James Dobson. At first, Paulk reportedly avoided giving a direct answer about the incident; however, he later confessed that he had been in the bar for the purpose of finding connection with other men. Paulk reduced his activities for six months and then resumed his position as manager of the Homosexuality and Gender Division of Focus on the Family.\n\nAn Exodus press release soon followed:\nThe incident received national headlines in newspapers and news magazines. Paulk remained in his position as manager of the Homosexuality and Gender Department until choosing to leave that position in 2003.\n\nIn April 2013, Paulk disavowed his belief in gay reparative therapy, announcing that —while he remains a devout Christian— he also identifies as a gay (not \"formerly gay\") man and believes that reparative therapy is both futile and harmful. He announced that his marriage was ending and he issued a formal apology for his role as an advocate of the movement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2151469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2151469", "title": "Jonathan Eybeschutz", "text": "Jonathan Eybeschutz\n\nJonathan Eybeschütz (also Eibeschutz or Eibeschitz; 1690 in Kraków – 1764 in Altona), was a Talmudist, Halachist, Kabbalist, holding positions as Dayan of Prague, and later as Rabbi of the \"Three Communities\": Altona, Hamburg and Wandsbek. With Jacob Emden, he is well known as a protagonist in the Emden–Eybeschütz Controversy.\n\nEybeschütz's father was the rabbi in Ivančice (, sometimes \"Eibeschutz\"), Habsburg Moravia. Eybeschütz was a child prodigy in Talmud; on his father's death, he studied in the yeshiva of Meir Eisenstadt in Prostějov (Prossnitz), and then later in Holešov (Holleschau). He also lived in Vienna for a short time. He married Elkele Spira, daughter of Rabbi Isaac Spira, and they lived in Hamburg for two years with Mordecai ha-Kohen, Elkele's maternal grandfather. Among their descendents are the illustrious management thinker Peter Drucker and Margarethe Kelsen, the wife of Hans Kelsen.\n\nEybeschütz settled in Prague in 1700 and became head of the yeshivah and a famous preacher. The people of Prague held Eybeschütz in high esteem and he was considered second there only to Dayan David Oppenheim.\n\nIn Prague, Eybeschütz received permission to print the Talmud—but with the omission of all passages contradicting the principles of Christianity in consultation with Dayan David Oppenheim. Legends and rumors seeking to discredit the event said that he did this without the consultation of the Rabbis of Prague, and they revoked the printing license.\n\nAlready in Prague 1724, he was suspected of being a Sabbatean. He even got up on Yom Kippur to denounce the Sabbatean movement, but he remained suspected. Therefore, In 1736, Eybeschutz was only appointed dayan of Prague and not chief rabbi. He became rabbi of Metz in 1741. In 1750, he was elected rabbi of the \"Three Communities:\" Altona, Hamburg, and Wandsbek.\n\nHe was \"an acknowledged genius\" in at least three separate areas of Jewish religious creativity: Talmud and Jewish law (halakhah); homiletics (derush) and popular preaching; and Kabbalah. \"He was a man of erudition, but he owed his fame chiefly to his personality. Few men of the period so profoundly impressed their mark on Jewish life.\" His granddaughter was the Breslau poet and intellectual , born Esther Gad.\n\nEybeschütz again became suspected of harboring secret Sabbatean beliefs because of a dispute that arose concerning the amulets which he was suspected of issuing. It was alleged that these amulets recognized the Messianic claims of Sabbatai Zevi.Once the controversy started when Emden found serious connections between the Kabbalistic and homiletic writings of Eybeschutz with those of the known Sabbatean Judah Leib Prossnitz, whom Eybeschütz knew from his days in Prossnitz. Rabbi Jacob Emden accused him of heresy. The majority of the rabbis in Poland, Moravia, and Bohemia, as well as the leaders of the Three Communities supported Eybeschütz: the accusation was \"utterly incredible\"—in 1725, Eybeschütz was among the Prague rabbis who excommunicated the Sabbateans. Others suggest that the Rabbis issued this ruling because they feared the repercussions if their leading figure, Eybeschütz, was found to be a Sabbatean. Recent evidence has produced the actual amulets and their alleged connection to Sabbatean amulets.\n\nIn 1752, the controversy between Emden and Eybeschütz raged. In December of that year, the Hamburg government banned any more discussion of the amulets, the Senate of Hamburg suspended Eybeschütz, and many members of that congregation demanded that he should submit his case to rabbinical authorities. At this point he was defended by Carl Anton, a convert to Christianity, but a former disciple of Eybeschütz. \"Kurze Nachricht von dem Falschen Messias Sabbathai Zebhi,\" etc. (Wolfenbüttel, 1752).\n\nThe controversy was a momentous incident in Jewish history of the period—involving both Yechezkel Landau and the Vilna Gaon—and may be credited with having crushed the lingering belief in Sabbatai current even in some Orthodox circles. \n\nIn 1760, the quarrel broke out once more when some Shabbatean elements were discovered among the students of Eybeschütz' yeshivah.\nAt the same time his younger son, Wolf Jonas Eybeschutz, presented himself as a Shabbatean prophet, and was close to several Frankists, with the result that the yeshivah was closed.\n\nAccording to Jacob Katz, Jonathan Eybeschütz's grandson was rumored to be Baron Thomas von Schoenfeld, an apostate Jew who inherited his grandfather's collection of Sabbatean kabbalistic works. He eventually left the Sabbatean movement and founded a Masonic lodge called the Asiatische Bruder, one of four Illuminati lodges in Vienna. After his uncle's death on August 10, 1791, he was offered the leadership of the Frankist movement which he refused. Katz disputes this claim however, saying that Baron Thomas von Schoenfeld was a member of the Dobruschka family of Brьnn and was in no way related, either by blood or marriage, to Eybeschutz. According to Gershom Scholem, the ideology of the Asiatic Brethren mixed Kabbalistic and Sabbatean ideas jumbled together with Christian theosophic doctrines.\n\nOne of Eybeschutz's descendents is the Yiddish novelist and Holocaust survivor Chava Rosenfarb (1923–2011).\n\nThirty of his works in the area of Halakha (Jewish law) have been published. In addition, several of his works on homiletics, teaching methodology, and Kabbalah are currently in print. Only one of his works was published in his lifetime. The posthumous printing of so many of his works is testimony to his influence on his contemporaries through his oral teachings and his personality. It is claimed that he also published numerous Sabbatean works anonymously.\n\n\nRabbi Eybeschutz also wrote \"Luchoth Edut\" (Tablets of Testimony), in which he describes the whole dispute and attempts to refute the charges against him. It includes also the letters of recommendation which he had received from leading rabbis who came to his defense. In January 2014, Maggid Books, a division of Koren Publishers Jerusalem published \"Derash Yehonatan: Around the Year with Rav Yehonatan Eybeshitz\" by Rabbi Shalom Hammer. This work is one of the first English translations of Rabbi Eybeshutz's writings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2000351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000351", "title": "Jordan Hill Roman Temple", "text": "Jordan Hill Roman Temple\n\nJordan Hill Roman Temple is a Romano-Celtic temple and Roman ruin situated on Jordan Hill above Bowleaze Cove in the eastern suburbs of Weymouth in Dorset, England. Original amateur excavations on the site in 1843, by J. Medhurst, were followed by a series of excavations in the 20th century suggesting that the site was in operation between to the late 4th century.\n\nIn the 20th century the site became the property of the Ministry of Works and is currently in the guardianship of English Heritage.\n\nThis is a Romano-British type temple, with a square-plan building situated within a courtyard or precinct. The floorplan of the temple measured . The surrounding precinct measured and contained numerous deposits of animal bones, ceramics, and coins. The site may also have served as a late 4th-century signal station.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17736129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17736129", "title": "Judaism's views on Muhammad", "text": "Judaism's views on Muhammad\n\nVery few texts in Judaism refer to or take note of the Islamic prophet, Muhammad. Those that do, generally reject Muhammad's proclamation of receiving divine revelations from God and label him instead as a false prophet.\n\nIn Judaism, prophets were seen as having attained the highest degree of holiness, scholarship, and closeness to God and set the standards for human perfection. The Talmud reports that there were more than a million prophets, but most of the prophets conveyed messages that were intended solely for their own generation and were not reported in Scripture. The Talmud reports that there were prophets among the gentiles (most notably Balaam, whose story is told in \"Numbers\" 22, and Job, who is considered a non-Jew by most rabbinical opinions). The prophet Jonah was sent on a mission to speak to the gentiles of the city of Nineveh.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, it was common for Jewish writers to describe Muhammad as \"ha-meshuggah\" (\"the madman\"), a term of contempt frequently used in the Bible for those who believe themselves to be prophets.\n\nIn the 7th century and during the life of Muhammad himself, many Jewish leaders and individual Jews made public their views on him or those who followed, especially but not limited if it concerned their communities. Among others, the old sage and man of letters Abu 'Afak from the Ubaeda tribe who wrote a poem which would be indicted by Muhammad himself, as warranting the capital sentence by assassination. The extant of it was preserved in Islamic biography and it may have been less severe,\n<poem>Long have I lived but never have I seen\nAn assembly or collection of people\nMore faithful to their undertaking\nAnd their allies when called upon\nThan the sons of Qayla when they assembled,\nMen who overthrew mountains and never submitted.\nA rider who came to them split them in two\n(saying) \"Permitted\", \"Forbidden\", of all sorts of things.\nHad you believed in glory or kingship\nYou would have followed Tubba.\n\nThe apostle [Muhammad] said, \"Who will deal with this rascal for me?\"</poem>\n\nMaimonides referred to Muhammad as a false prophet and an insane man. In his \"Epistle to Yemen\" he wrote \"After [Jesus] arose the Madman who emulated his precursor [Jesus], since he paved the way for him. But he added the further objective of procuring rule and submission [\"talb al-mulk\"; pursuit of sovereignty] and he invented what was well known [Islam].\"\n\nIn his authoritative work of law the \"Mishneh Torah\" (Hilkhot Melakhim 11:10–12), Maimonides indicated that nevertheless Muhammad was part of God's plan of preparing the world for the coming of the Jewish Messiah: \"All those words of Jesus of Nazareth and of this Ishmaelite [i.e., Muhammad] who arose after him are only to make straight the path for the messianic king and to prepare the whole world to serve the Lord together. As it is said: 'For then I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech so that all of them shall call on the name of the Lord and serve him with one accord' (Zephaniah 3:9).\"\n\nNatan'el al-Fayyumi, a prominent 12th-century Yemenite rabbi and theologian, and the founder of what is sometimes called \"Jewish Ismailism\", wrote in his philosophical treatise \"Bustan al-Uqul\" (\"Garden of Wisdom\") that God sends prophets to establish religions for other nations, which do not have to conform to the precepts of the Jewish Torah. Nethanel explicitly considered Muhammad a true prophet, who was sent from Heaven with a particular message that applies to the Arabs, but not to the Jews. However, Al-Fayymi's explicit acceptance of Muhammad's prophecy was rare and virtually unknown until recent times beyond his native Yemen.\n\nThe apocalyptic Midrash \"Secrets (Nistarot) of Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai\", compares Muhammad, \"a prophet sent to Ishmael according to God's will\", to the Jewish Messiah. According to this text, ascribed to the famous 1st-century sage and mystic Simeon bar Yochai, and apparently written at the beginning of the Muslim conquest or in the 8th century, Muhammad's role as a prophet includes redeeming the Jews from the Christian (\"Roman\" or \"Edomite\") oppression and playing a positive role in the messianic process.\n\nOne Yemenite Jewish document, found in the Cairo Genizah, suggests that many Jews had not only accepted Muhammad as a prophet, but even desecrated Sabbath in order to join Muhammad in his struggle. However, some historians suggest that this document, called \"Dhimmat an-nabi Muhammad\" (Muhammad’s Writ of Protection), has been fabricated by Yemenite Jews for the purpose of self-defence.\n\nA number of stories from the Islamic tradition about Muhammad entered mainstream Jewish thought incidentally, due to the great cultural convergence in Islamic Spain from the 9th to 12th centuries, known as the Golden Age of Spanish Jewry. For example, Rabbi Jacob Joseph of Polonne, one of the early Hasidic mystics, wrote that one pious man (\"hasid\") taught that the internal struggle against the evil inclination is greater than external battle, quoting Bahya ibn Paquda's popular treatise \"Chovot HaLevavot.\" In the Judeo-Arabic original version of that book, Bahya Ibn Paquda refers to both external and internal battle as jihad and the \"pious man\" about whom the story is originally told is Muhammad, though the author does not mention his source by name.\n\n"}
{"id": "17073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17073", "title": "Kangchenjunga", "text": "Kangchenjunga\n\nKangchenjunga, also spelled Kanchenjunga, is the third highest mountain in the world. It lies between Nepal and Sikkim, India, with three of the five peaks (Main, Central and South) directly on the border, and the remaining two (West and Kangbachen) in Nepal's Taplejung District. It rises with an elevation of in a section of the Himalayas called \"Kangchenjunga Himal\" delimited in the west by the Tamur River, in the north by the Lhonak Chu and Jongsang La, and in the east by the Teesta River.\n\nUntil 1852, Kangchenjunga was assumed to be the highest mountain in the world, but calculations based on various readings and measurements made by the Great Trigonometrical Survey of India in 1849 came to the conclusion that Mount Everest, known as Peak XV at the time, was the highest. Allowing for further verification of all calculations, it was officially announced in 1856 that Kangchenjunga is the third highest mountain in the world.\n\nKangchenjunga was first climbed on 25 May 1955 by Joe Brown and George Band, who were part of a British expedition. They stopped short of the summit in accordance with the promise given to the Chogyal that the top of the mountain would remain intact. Every climber or climbing group that has reached the summit has followed this tradition. Other members of this expedition included John Angelo Jackson and Tom Mackinon.\n\n\"Kangchenjunga\" is the official spelling adopted by Douglas Freshfield, Alexander Mitchell Kellas, and the Royal Geographical Society that gives the best indication of the Tibetan pronunciation. Freshfield referred to the spelling used by the Indian Government since the late 19th century. There are a number of alternative spellings including \"Kangchendzönga\", \"Khangchendzonga\", and \"Kanchenjunga\".\n\nThe brothers Hermann, Adolf and Robert Schlagintweit explained the local name Kanchinjínga (; ; ; ), meaning \"the five treasures of the high snow\" referring to its five peaks. Sikkimese pronunciation originates from the Tibetan word combining \"gangs\" meaning \"snow, ice\"; \"chen\" meaning \"great\"; \"mdzod\" meaning \"treasure\" and \"lnga\" meaning \"five\". \n\nLocal Lhopo people believe that the treasures are hidden but reveal to the devout when the world is in peril; the treasures comprise salt, gold, turquoise and precious stones, sacred scriptures, invincible armor or ammunition, grain and medicine.\n\nKangchenjunga's name in the Limbu language is \"Senjelungma\" or \"Seseylungma\", and is believed to be an abode of the omnipotent goddess Yuma Sammang.\n\nThe Kangchenjunga landscape is a complex of three distinct ecoregions: the eastern Himalayan broad-leaved and coniferous forests, the Eastern Himalayan alpine shrub and meadows and the Terai-Duar savanna and grasslands.\nThe Kangchenjunga transboundary landscape is shared by Bhutan, China, India and Nepal, and comprises 14 protected areas with a total of :\nThese protected areas are habitats for many globally significant plant species such as rhododendrons and orchids and many endangered flagship species such as snow leopard, Asian black bear, red panda, white-bellied musk deer, blood pheasant and chestnut-breasted partridge.\n\nThe \"Kangchenjunga Himal\" section of the Himalayas lies both in Nepal and India, and encompasses 16 peaks over . In the north, it is limited by the Lhonak Chu, Goma Chu and Jongsang La, and in the east by the Teesta River. The western limit runs from the Jongsang La down the Gingsang and Kangchenjunga glaciers and the rivers of Ghunsa and Tamur. Kanchenjunga rises about south of the general alignment of the Great Himalayan range about east-south-east of Mount Everest as the crow flies. South of the southern face of Kanchenjunga runs the high Singalila Ridge that separates Sikkim from Nepal and northern West Bengal.\n\nKangchenjunga and its satellite peaks form a huge mountain massif. The massif's five highest peaks are listed in the following table.\n\nThe main ridge of the massif runs from north-north-east to south-south-west and forms a watershed to several rivers. Together with ridges running roughly from east to west they form a giant cross. These ridges contain a host of peaks between . The northern section includes Yalung Kang, Kangchenjunga Central and South, Kangbachen, Kirat Chuli and Gimmigela Chuli, and runs up to the Jongsang La. The eastern ridge in Sikkim includes Siniolchu. The southern section runs along the Nepal-Sikkim border and includes Kabru I to III. This ridge extends southwards to the Singalila Ridge. The western ridge culminates in the Kumbhakarna, also known as Jannu.\n\nFour main glaciers radiate from the peak, pointing roughly to the north-east, south-east, north-west and south-west. The \"Zemu\" glacier in the north-east and the \"Talung\" glacier in the south-east drain to the Teesta River; the \"Yalung\" glacier in the south-west and the \"Kangchen\" glacier in the north-west drain to the Arun and Kosi rivers.\nThe glaciers spread over the area above approximately , and the glacialized area covers about in total. There are 120 glaciers in the Kanchenjunga Himal, of which 17 are debris-covered. Between 1958 and 1992, more than half of 57 examined glaciers had retreated, possibly due to rising of air temperature.\n\nKangchenjunga Main is the highest elevation of the Brahmaputra River basin, which forms part of the southeast Asian monsoon regime and is among the globally largest river basins.\nKangchenjunga is one of six peaks above located in the basin of the Koshi river, which is among the largest tributaries of the Ganges.\nThe Kangchenjunga massif forms also part of the Ganges Basin.\n\nAlthough it is the third highest peak in the world, Kangchenjunga is only ranked 29th by topographic prominence, a measure of a mountain's independent stature. The key col for Kangchenjunga lies at a height of , along the watershed boundary between Arun and Brahmaputra rivers in Tibet. It is however, the 4th most prominent peak in the Himalaya, after Everest, and the western and eastern anchors of the Himalaya, Nanga Parbat and Namcha Barwa, respectively.\n\nThere are four climbing routes to reach the summit of Kangchenjunga, three of which are in Nepal from the southwest, northwest and northeast, and one from northeastern Sikkim in India. To date, the northeastern route from Sikkim has been successfully used only three times. The Indian government has banned expeditions to Kanchenjunga, and therefore this route has been closed since 2000.\n\n\nIn 1955, Joe Brown and George Band made the first ascent on 25 May, followed by Norman Hardie and Tony Streather on 26 May. The full team also included John Clegg (team doctor), Charles Evans (team leader), John Angelo Jackson, Neil Mather, and Tom Mackinnon.\n\nThe ascent proved that Aleister Crowley's 1905 route (also investigated by the 1954 reconnaissance) was viable. The route starts on the Yalung Glacier to the southwest of the peak, and climbs the Yalung Face, which is high. The main feature of this face is the \"Great Shelf\", a large sloping plateau at around , covered by a hanging glacier. The route is almost entirely on snow, glacier, and one icefall; the summit ridge itself can involve a small amount of travel on rock. The first ascent expedition made six camps above their base camp, two below the Shelf, two on it, and two above it. They started on 18 April, and everyone was back to base camp by 28 May.\n\n\nDespite improved climbing gear the fatality rate of climbers attempting to summit Kanchenjunga is high. Since the 1990s, more than 20% of people died while climbing Kanchenjunga's main peak.\n\nDue to its remote location in Nepal and the difficulty involved in accessing it from India, the Kangchenjunga region is not much explored by trekkers. It has, therefore, retained much of its pristine beauty. In Sikkim too, trekking into the Kangchenjunga region has just recently been permitted. The Goecha La trek is gaining popularity amongst tourists. It goes to the Goecha La Pass, located right in front of the huge southeast face of Kangchenjunga. Another trek to Green Lake Basin has recently been opened for trekking. This trek goes to the Northeast side of Kangchenjunga along the famous Zemu Glacier. The film Singalila in the Himalaya is journey around Kangchenjunga.\n\nThe area around Kangchenjunga is said to be home to a mountain deity, called \"Dzö-nga\" or \"Kangchenjunga Demon\", a type of yeti or rakshasa. A British geological expedition in 1925 spotted a bipedal creature which they asked the locals about, who referred to it as the \"Kangchenjunga Demon\".\n\nFor generations, there have been legends recounted by the inhabitants of the areas surrounding Mount Kanchenjunga, both in Sikkim and in Nepal, that there is a valley of immortality hidden on its slopes. These stories are well known to both the original inhabitants of the area, the Lepcha people, and those of the Tibetan Buddhist cultural tradition. In Tibetan, this valley is known as Beyul Demoshong. In 1962 a Tibetan Lama by the name of Tulshuk Lingpa led over 300 followers into the high snow slopes of Kanchenjunga to ‘open the way’ to Beyul Demoshong. The story of this expedition is recounted in the 2011 book \"A Step Away from Paradise\".\n\n\nThe above Himalayan Journal References were all also reproduced in the \"50th Anniversary of the First Ascent of Kangchenjunga\" The Himalayan Club, Kolkata Section 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16435745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16435745", "title": "King Shava", "text": "King Shava\n\nKing Shava was the adopted father of Bahuka, as mentioned in the Mahabharata. \n\nHe had multiple wives and mistresses, and according to folktale he had 1301 children. He married his youngest wife after she was rejected by his son Bahuka. He loved his youngest queen the most because they both had similar low, gruffy voices. In some accounts they spoke with the same voice.\nHe stood eight feet tall and had multi-colored hair.\n\n"}
{"id": "18536014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18536014", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Angola &amp; São Tomé e Principe", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Angola &amp; São Tomé e Principe\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in Angola is composed of a Latin hierarchy only, which comprises three ecclesiastical provinces, each headed by a Metropolitan Archbishop, and a total of fifteen suffragan dioceses.\nAlthough exempt (i.e. immediately subject to the Holy See), the Diocese of São Tomé and Príncipe, an Atlantic island country which shares a Portuguese colonial history (and linguistic legacy)with Angola, is part of the transnational Episcopal Conference of Angola and São Tomé, while neither has a national Episcopal Conference.\n\nNeither country has an Eastern Catholic or pre-diocesan jurisdiction.\n\nThere is an Apostolic Nunciature to Angola (in national capital Luanda) as papal diplomatic representation (embassy-level), into which is also vested the Apostolic Nunciature to São Tomé and Príncipe.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nExcluding precursors of present sees (usually pre-diocesan).\n\nThere are no titular sees.\n\nIn Angola, one was suppressed without (direct) successor :\n\n"}
{"id": "51280916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51280916", "title": "List of Hindu temples in France", "text": "List of Hindu temples in France\n\nHere is a list of Hindu temples in France:\n\n"}
{"id": "7820366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7820366", "title": "List of Seventh-day Adventist periodicals", "text": "List of Seventh-day Adventist periodicals\n\nThis is a list of periodicals published by the Seventh-day Adventist Church or by its church members. They include both official and unofficial publications relating to Seventh-day Adventism. Magazines which are only available on the internet are not included.\n\nMost periodicals are listed by location of the publisher. A brief list of the most circulated periodicals is also included.\n\nThe list of Adventist periodicals by circulation may give some indication of notability, but this criterion alone does not measure the impact of a magazine, and gift subscriptions and other freely distributed magazines might be expected to have an inflated circulation. As an example, one may assume that academic journals have more influence than their lower circulations suggest.\n\nItems here are also listed by location below. Many older issues of these periodicals can be viewed online at the Adventist Archives\n\n\nThese publications are used during Sabbath School time at church. Many are published on various denominational presses worldwide.\n\n\nThe official newsmagazines include:\n\n\nUnited States:\n\nNorth America is administered as the North American Division of Seventh-day Adventists.\n\nThe Review and Herald Publishing Association:\n\nThe Pacific Press Publishing Association:\n\nSigns Publishing Company in Warburton, Victoria, Australia is the church publisher of the South Pacific Division of Seventh-day Adventists. The three major magazines it publishes are:\n\n\nSouth America is administered as the South American Division of Seventh-day Adventists.\n\nThe Asociación Casa Editora Sudamericana (\"South American Publishing House\"):\n\nThe Universidad Adventista de Chile, through its Faculty of Theology publishes:\n\nThese may be significantly left or right of the Adventist mainstream, or may just be published by an independent organization.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAnalysis and commentary:\n"}
{"id": "39109712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39109712", "title": "List of Uruguayan Catholic priests", "text": "List of Uruguayan Catholic priests\n\nList of notable Uruguayan Roman Catholic clerics:\n\nA\n\n\nB\n\n\nC\n\n\nD\n\n\nF\n\n\nG\n\n\nI\n\nL\n\n\nM\n\n\nN\n\nO\n\nP\n\n\nQ\n\nR\n\n\nS\n\n\nT\n\n\nV\n\n\nW\n\n\nY\n\n"}
{"id": "30166472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30166472", "title": "List of promoters of the Rosary", "text": "List of promoters of the Rosary\n\nPeople associated with the promotion of the Rosary as form of prayer and spiritual meditation.\n"}
{"id": "10084748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10084748", "title": "Long Healing Prayer", "text": "Long Healing Prayer\n\nLawh-i-Anta'l-Kafi or the Long Healing Prayer is a prayer written in Arabic by Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith, in the 'Akká period. The authorized English translation was done in 1980 by Habib Taherzadeh and a Committee at the Bahá'í World Centre.\n\nThe main part of the prayer consists of numerous rhythmic invocations of God, each ending with the phrase \"Thou the Sufficing, Thou the Healing, Thou the Abiding, O Thou Abiding One.\"\n\nThe prayer ends with a supplication for healing and protection, and includes the phrase \"protect the bearer of this blessed Tablet, and whoso reciteth it, and whoso cometh upon it, and whoso passeth around the house wherein it is. Heal Thou, then, by it every sick, diseased and poor one\", which gives this prayer its talismanic nature.\n\nNorwegian composer Lasse Thoresen composed a piece of choral music for the Bergen International Music Festival in May 1996, in which the \"Long Healing Prayer\" was sung, first in the original Arabic and then in English.\n\nBahá'u'lláh wrote several other healing prayers, including a prayer for women, one for infants, and a well-known short prayer starting with the phrase \"Thy Name is my healing\", which is part of Bahá'u'lláh's \"Lawh-i-Tibb\" (\"Tablet to a Physician\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95238", "title": "Mar'rallang", "text": "Mar'rallang\n\nIn Australian Aboriginal mythology, Mar'rallang was the name shared by twin sisters. They both married the same man.\n"}
{"id": "2691861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2691861", "title": "Mazdaznan", "text": "Mazdaznan\n\nMazdaznan is a neo-Zoroastrian religion which held that the Earth should be restored to a garden where humanity can cooperate and converse with God. Founded at the end of the 19th century by Otoman Zar-Adusht Ha'nish, born Otto Hanisch, the religion was a revival of 6th century Mazdakism. Adherents maintained vegetarian diets and practiced breathing exercises. Concerned with the nature of thought, emotion and behavior, Mazdaznan taught that the practical aspects of personal health could be achieved through conscious breathing, \"Gah-Llama\". The word \"Mazdaznan\" is said to derive from the Persian \"Mazda\" and \"Znan\", and is supposed to mean \"master thought\".\n\nAlthough the movement originally consisted of public lectures and group exercise, popular demand made a book called \"The Power of Breath\" available. This book propelled Mazdaznan into being promoted as a dietary (vegetarian) movement with breathing, vowel and glandular exercises for physical, spiritual and mental development.\n\nIts lack of lasting popularity can be attributed to the fact that besides emphasizing the importance of the individual decision, it proclaims personal responsibility for one's own fortune. Its success as a word of mouth movement that spawned similar groups can be attributed to its \"tried and true\" traditions of the way different physical postures and ways of breathing produce predictable and controllable mental states, which today recognized as a basic aspect of behavior in Behaviorism, introduced by B.F. Skinner.\n\nThe context of its relationship to Judeo-Christian and other religions can be deduced from its emphasis upon three historical characters: Ainyahita, Zarathustra and Jehoshua. Ainyahita, daughter of the divinely created couple (may be related to Anahita), lived 9000 years ago and is supposed to be the origin of the white Aryan race, which includes the Jews and therefore Jesus of Nazareth. The traditional God character of most religions has its Mazdaznan component in \"Gah-Llama\" which is referred to as \"intelligence,\" and \"In the air you breathe.\" \"The Power of Breath\" discusses Gah-Llama in breathing exercises, where the main goal is self-control and mastery of your body through, effectively, \"breathing intelligently\" and breathing \"intelligence\" or \"Gah-Llama\". It is in all respects a non-theistic tradition, in that all words for the unknown are recognized as linguistic and semantic peculiarities, with no rules except for suggestions for health, which are accompanied with a note that you know what's best for yourself.\n\nThe first centers were established in Chicago in 1890 and New York in 1902. Since 1917, Hanisch settled mainly in Los Angeles, California. Several scholars brought his teachings to other countries.\n\nIn Europe, Mazdaznan was spread by the former Californian farmers David and Frieda Ammann beginning in about 1907. David Ammann was expelled from Leipzig, Germany in 1914 due to the publication of the book \"Inner Studies\". The main centre for Mazdaznan in Europe was the \"Lebensschule\" at Herrliberg near Zurich. One of the most famous European followers of the movement was the abstract painter Johannes Itten, who taught at the Bauhaus, who insisted on shaven heads, crimson robes and colonic irrigation.\n\nIn the 1930s, Gloria Gasque, a wealthy follower of the movement, went to Bombay intending to restore the \"true\" message of Zoroaster to the Parsis. Though met with hostility, she remained there for a number of years before she returned to the United States.\n\nThe Nazis proscribed Mazdaznan from 1935, a ban that remained in Germany until 1946. Today the movement has several thousand German followers.\n\nIn 1980 Mazdaznan's headquarters moved to Encinitas, California, and in 2001 the last manager of the headquarters disappeared and the organized movement ceased to exist in the US, though it is possible that there are still isolated followers or practitioners in the US.\n\nIn 2007, the movement was revived in Canada by Peter deBoer.\n\n"}
{"id": "22504106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22504106", "title": "Melshanthi", "text": "Melshanthi\n\nMelshanthi is the chief priest who performs day to day poojas in the Sabarimala Ayyappan temple.\n\nThe Thantris come from a specific family called the Thazhamon family. The Tantris of this family reside at Thazhamon Madom. This madom is in Chengannur of central Kerala. Apart from Sabarimala, the family presides over the poojas at Aryankavu, Achankoil and Kulathupuzha. The Padi Pooja, Udayasthamana Pooja and Kalasa Poojas cannot be conducted unless the Thantri is present during the ceremony.\n\nThe term of Melshanthi lasts for one year from mid October to the next mid October. The Devosom board publishes notifications in the end of July or the first of August in leading newspapers for applications from eminent priests, well versed in Vedas and experienced in mantra and tantra. Those who have served already a term as Melshanthi cannot reapply.\n\nThe applicants are short listed by a preliminary interview by the members of the Devasom board. Out of the short listed candidates, one is selected by Lord's grace by a method which is just like a lucky dip. In this process the names of each shortlisted candidate is written on a piece of paper and folded and deposited in a pot. Another ten pieces of paper are taken and on one paper the word 'Melshanthi' is written and the remaining 9 papers are folded blank and dropped in another pot.\n\nBoth the pots are taken inside the shrine by Tantri and offered a special pooja. Later a child is made to take the papers from both the pots one by one. The child takes a paper each from both the pots. When a name and a blank paper match the candidate is rejected. When a name and the word 'melshanthi' matches the candidate is selected. This is the way a Melshanthi is selected for the poojas.\n"}
{"id": "2224779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224779", "title": "Moderator of the General Assembly", "text": "Moderator of the General Assembly\n\nThe moderator of the General Assembly is the chairperson of a General Assembly, the highest court of a presbyterian or reformed church. Kirk sessions and presbyteries may also style the chairperson as moderator.\n\nPresbyterian churches are ordered by a presbyterian polity, including a hierarchy of councils or courts of elders, from the local church (kirk) Session through presbyteries (and perhaps synods) to a General Assembly.\n\nThe moderator presides over the meeting of the court, much as a convener presides over the meeting of a church committee. The moderator is thus the chairperson, and is understood to be a member of the court acting \"primus inter pares\". The moderator calls and constitutes meetings, presides at them, and closes them in prayer. The moderator has a casting, but not a deliberative vote. During a meeting, the title \"moderator\" is used by all other members of the court as a form of address, but this may not be continued outside the meetings. Thus this convention expresses deference to the authority of the court rather than an honour for the moderator as an individual.\n\nMany moderators act as ambassadors for their general assembly when it is not sitting, and visit many of the local churches in their denomination.\n\nLists of moderators of the General Assembly:\nOther articles:\n\n"}
{"id": "17659098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17659098", "title": "Moly (herb)", "text": "Moly (herb)\n\nMoly (Greek: , ) is a magical herb mentioned in book 10 of Homer's \"Odyssey\".\n\nIn the story the Odyssey, Hermes gave this herb to Odysseus to protect him from Circe's wizardry when he went to her home to rescue his friends. These friends came together with him from the island Aiolos after they escaped from the Laestrigonians. \n\nAccording to the \"New History\" of Ptolemy Hephaestion (according to Photius) the plant mentioned by Homer grew from the blood of the Giant killed on Circe's island, by Helios ally of Circe. In this description the flower was white, and a derivation of the name was given, from the \"hard\" (Greek \"malos\") combat with the Giant. \n\nHomer also describes Moly by saying \"The root was black, while the flower was as white as milk; the gods call it Moly, Dangerous for a mortal man to pluck from the soil, but not for the deathless gods. All lies within their power\".\n\nThere has been much controversy as to the identification. Philippe Champault decides in favour of the \"Peganum harmala\" (of the order Rutaceae), the Syrian or African rue (Greek ), from the husks of which the vegetable alkaloid harmaline is extracted. The flowers are white with green stripes. Victor Bérard relying partly on a Semitic root, prefers the \"Atriplex halimus\" (\"atriplex\", a Latin form of Greek , and , marine), order Chenopodiaceae, a herb or low shrub common on the south European coasts. These identifications are noticed by R. M. Henry, who illustrates the Homeric account by passages in the Paris and Leiden magical papyri, and argues that moly is probably a magical name, derived perhaps from Phoenician or Egyptian sources, for a plant which cannot be certainly identified. He shows that the \"difficulty of pulling up\" the plant is not a merely physical one, but rather connected with the peculiar powers claimed by magicians. \n\nMedical historians have speculated that the transformation to pigs was not intended literally but refers to anticholinergic intoxication. Symptoms include amnesia, hallucinations, and delusions - this description of \"moly\" fits the snowdrop, a flower of the region that contains galantamine, which is an anticholinesterase and can therefore counteract anticholinergics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40279543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40279543", "title": "Mu'mina", "text": "Mu'mina\n\nMuʾmin () is an Arabic Islamic term, frequently referenced in the Quran, that literally means \"believer\", and denotes a person who has complete submission to the Will of Allah and has faith firmly established in his heart, i.e. a \"faithful Muslim\". The term(Mu'mina) مومينه is used to identify a female that has a higher degree of faith in Islam.\n\nThe Quran states:\nThis verse addresses the believers, exhorting them to believe, implying multiple stages of belief.\n\nIn Islamic theology, there exists a significant difference between a Muslim and a Mu'min. A Muslim is a person who has come under the arena of Islam and believes its doctrines. A Mumin is a Muslim with higher degree of belief, with his/her heart having the fear of God and always abiding by the teachings of Quran.Thus, every Mumin is a Muslim but not every Muslim is a Mu'min.\n\nThe following verse makes a distinction between a Muslim and a believer:\n(Al-Hujurat ) \"The Arabs of the desert say, \"We believe.\" (tu/minoo) Say thou: Ye believe not; but rather say, \"We profess Islam;\" (aslamna) for the faith (al-imanu) hath not yet found its way into your hearts. But if ye obey God and His Apostle, He will not allow you to lose any of your actions, for God is Forgiving, Merciful.\n\n\nhttp://quran.com/23 Surat ul Mu'minoon\n"}
{"id": "179765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179765", "title": "Nara Prefecture", "text": "Nara Prefecture\n\nNara Prefecture region is considered one of the oldest regions in Japan, having been in existence for thousands of years. The current form of Nara Prefecture was officially created in 1887 when it became independent of Osaka Prefecture.\n\nHistorically, Nara Prefecture was also known as Yamato-no-kuni or Yamato Province.\n\nFrom the third century to the fourth century, a poorly documented political force existed at the foot of Mount Miwa, east of Nara Basin. It sought unification of most parts in Japan. Since the historical beginning of Japan, Yamato was its political center.\n\nAncient capitals of Japan were built on the land of Nara, namely Asuka-kyō, Fujiwara-kyō (694–710) and Heijō-kyō (most of 710–784). The capital cities of Fujiwara and Heijō are believed to have been modeled after Chinese capitals at the time, incorporating grid layout patterns. The royal court also established relations with Sui and then Tang dynasty China and sent students to the Middle Kingdom to learn high civilization. By 7th century, Nara accepted the many immigrants including refugees of Baekje who had escaped from war disturbances of the southern part of the Korean Peninsula. The first high civilization with royal patronage of Buddhism flourished in today's Nara city (710–784 AD).\n\nIn 784, Emperor Kanmu decided to relocate the capital to Nagaoka-kyō in Yamashiro Province, followed by another move in 794 to Heian-kyō, marking the start of the Heian period. The temples in Nara remained powerful beyond the move of political capital, thus giving Nara a synonym of \"Nanto\" (meaning \"South Capital\") as opposed to Heian-kyō, situated in the north. Close to the end of Heian period, Taira no Shigehira, a son of Taira no Kiyomori, was ordered by his father to depress the power of various parties, mainly Kōfuku-ji and Tōdai-ji, who were backing up an opposition group headed by Prince Mochihito. The movement led to a collision between the Taira and the Nara temples in 1180. This clash eventually led to Kōfuku-ji and Tōdai-ji being set on fire, resulting in vast destruction of architectural heritage.\n\nAt the rise of the Minamoto to its ruling seat and the opening of Kamakura shogunate, Nara enjoyed the support of Minamoto no Yoritomo toward restoration. Kōfuku-ji, being the \"home temple\" to the Fujiwara since its foundation, not only regained the power it had before but became a \"de facto\" regional chief of Yamato Province. With the reconstruction of Kōfuku-ji and Tōdai-ji, a town was growing again near the two temples.\n\nThe Nanboku-chō period, starting in 1336, brought more instability to Nara. As Emperor Go-Daigo chose Yoshino as his base, a power struggle arose in Kōfuku-ji with a group supporting the South and another siding the North court. Likewise, local clans were split into two. Kōfuku-ji recovered its control over the province for a short time at the surrender of the South Court in 1392, while the internal power game of the temple itself opened a way for the local samurai clans to spring up and fight with each other, gradually acquiring their own territories, thus diminishing the influence of Kōfuku-ji overall.\n\nLater, the whole province of Yamato got drawn into the confusion of the Sengoku period. Tōdai-ji was once again set on fire in 1567, when Matsunaga Hisahide, who was later appointed by Oda Nobunaga to the lord of Yamato Province, fought for supremacy against his former master Miyoshi family. Followed by short appointments of Tsutsui Junkei and Toyotomi Hidenaga by Toyotomi Hideyoshi to the lord, the Tokugawa shogunate ultimately ruled the city of Nara directly, and most parts of Yamato province with a few feudal lords allocated at Kōriyama, Takatori and other places. With industry and commerce developing in the 18th century, the economy of the province was incorporated into prosperous Osaka, the commercial capital of Japan at the time.\n\nThe economic dependency to Osaka even characterizes today's Nara Prefecture, for many inhabitants commute to Osaka to work or study there.\n\nNara Prefecture is part of the Kansai, or Kinki, region of Japan, and is located in the middle of the Kii Peninsula on the western half of Honshu. Nara Prefecture is landlocked. It is bordered to the west by Wakayama Prefecture and Osaka Prefecture; on the north by Kyoto Prefecture and on the east by Mie Prefecture.\n\nNara Prefecture is 78.5 km from east to west and 103.6 km from north to south.\n\nMost of the prefecture is covered by mountains and forests, leaving an inhabitable area of only 851 km². The ratio of inhabitable area to total area is 23%, ranked 43rd among the 47 prefectures in Japan.\n\nNara Prefecture is bisected by the Japan Median Tectonic Line (MTL) running through its territory east to west, along the Yoshino River. On the northern side of the MTL is the so-called Inner Zone, where active faults running north to south are still shaping the landscape. The Ikoma Mountains in the northwest form the border with Osaka Prefecture. The Nara Basin, which lies to the east of these mountains, contains the highest concentration of population in Nara Prefecture. Further east are the Kasagi Mountains, which separate the Basin from the Yamato Highlands.\n\nSouth of the MTL is the Outer Zone, comprising the Kii Mountains, which occupy about 60% of the land area of the prefecture. The Ōmine Range is in the center of the Kii Mountains, running north to south, with steep valleys on both sides. The tallest mountain in Nara Prefecture, and indeed in the Kansai region, is Mount Hakkyō. To the west, separating Nara Prefecture from Wakayama Prefecture, is the Obako Range, with peaks around 1,300 metres. To the east, bordering Mie Prefecture, is the Daikō Range, including Mount Ōdaigahara. This mountainous region is also home to a World Heritage Site, the Sacred Sites and Pilgrimage Routes in the Kii Mountain Range\".\n\nAbout 17% of the total land area of the prefecture is designated as National Park land, comprising the Yoshino-Kumano National Park, Kongō-Ikoma-Kisen, Kōya-Ryūjin, Murō-Akame-Aoyama, and Yamato-Aogaki Quasi-National Parks; and the Tsukigase-Kōnoyama, Yata, and Yoshinogawa-Tsuboro Prefectural Natural Parks.\n\nIn the Nara Basin, the climate has inland characteristics, as represented in the bigger temperature variance within the same day, and the difference of summer and winter temperatures. Winter temperatures average about 3 to 5°C, and 25 – 28°C in the summer with highest reaching close to 35°C. There is not a single year over the last decade (since 1990, up to 2007) with more than 10 days of snowfall recorded by Nara Local Meteorological Observatory.\n\nThe climate in the rest of the prefecture are mountainous, and especially in the south, with below −5°C being the extreme minimum in winter. Heavy rainfall is observed in summer. The annual accumulated rainfall ranges as much as 3000 to 5000 mm, which is among the heaviest in Japan.\n\nSpring and fall are temperate. The mountainous region of Yoshino has been popular both historically and presently for its cherry blossoms in the spring. In the fall, the southern mountains are equally striking with the changing of the oak trees.\n\nThere are twelve cities in Nara Prefecture:\n\n\nThere are seven districts in Nara, which are further divided into 15 towns and 12 villages as follows:\n\n\nAccording to the 2005 Census of Japan, Nara Prefecture has a population of 1,421,310, which is a decrease of 1.5%, since the year 2000.\n\nThe decline continued in 2006, with another decrease of 4,987 people compared to 2005. This includes a natural decrease from previous year of 288 people (11,404 births minus 11,692 deaths) and a decrease due to net domestic migration of 4,627 people outbound from the prefecture, and a decrease of 72 registered foreigners. Net domestic migration has turned into a continuous outbound trend since 1998. The largest destinations of migration in 2005 were the prefectures of Kyoto, Tokyo, and Hyōgo, with respectively a net of 1,130,982 and 451 people moving over. The largest inbound migration was from Niigata Prefecture, contributing to a net increase of 39 people. 13.7% of its population were reported as under 15, 65.9% between 15 and 64, and 20.4% were 65 or older. Females made up approximately 52.5% of the population.\n\nAs of 2004, the average density of the prefecture is 387 people per km². By districts, the so-called Yamato flat inland plain holds as much as about 90% of total population within the approximately 23% size of area in the north-west, including the Nara\nBasin, representing a density of 1,531 people per km². To the contrast, the combined district Gojō and Yoshino District occupies almost 64% of the land, while only 6% of people lives there, resulting in a density of 39 people km².\n\nNara prefecture had the highest rate in Japan of people commuting outbound for work, at 30.9% in 2000. A similar tendency is seen in prefectures such as Saitama, Chiba, and Kanagawa, all three of them having over 20% of people commuting for other prefectures.\n\n\nThe 2004 total gross prefecture product (GPP) for Nara was ¥3.8 trillion, an 0.1% growth over previous year. The per capita income was ¥2.6 million, which is a 1.3% decrease from previous year. The 2004 total gross prefecture product (GPP) for Nara was ¥3.8 trillion, an 0.1% growth over previous year. Manufacturing has the biggest share in the GPP of Nara with 20.2% of share, followed by services (19.1%) and real estates (16.3%). The share of agriculture including forestry and fishery was a mere 1.0%, only above mining, which is quasi-inexistent in Nara.\n\n\nThe culture of Nara is tied to the Kansai region in which it is located. However, like each of the other prefectures of Kansai, Nara has unique aspects to its culture, parts of which stem from its long history dating back to the Nara period.\n\nThere are large differences in dialect between the north/central region of the prefecture, where Nara city is located, and the Okunoya district in the south. The north/central dialect is close to Osaka's dialect, whilst Okunoya's dialect favours a Tokyo-style accent. The lengthening of vowels sounds in the Okunoya dialect is not seen in other dialects of the Kinki region, making it a special feature.\n\nFoods particular to Nara Prefecture include:\n\nThe following are recognized by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry as being traditional arts of Nara:\n\n\nHakuho college\n\nThe sports teams listed below are based in Nara.\n\nFootball (Soccer)\n\n\nBasketball\n\nMany jinja (Shinto shrines), Buddhist temples, and kofun exist in Nara Prefecture, making it is a centre for tourism. Moreover, many world heritage sites, such as the temple Tōdai-ji and Kasuga Shrine, exist in the capital city of Nara. \n\nBuddhist Monuments in the Hōryū-ji Area\nHistoric Monuments of Ancient Nara\n\nSacred Sites and Pilgrimage Routes in the Kii Mountain Range\n\nBuddhist temples\nShinto shrines\n\nKofun and heritage\nHot springs\n\nMountains\nOther attractions\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1028614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1028614", "title": "Nelumbo nucifera", "text": "Nelumbo nucifera\n\nNelumbo nucifera, also known as Indian lotus, sacred lotus, bean of India, Egyptian bean or simply lotus, is one of two extant species of aquatic plant in the family Nelumbonaceae. It is often colloquially called a water lily. Under favorable circumstances the seeds of this aquatic perennial may remain viable for many years, with the oldest recorded lotus germination being from that of seeds 1,300 years old recovered from a dry lakebed in northeastern China.\n\nIt has a very wide native distribution, ranging from central and northern India (at altitudes up to in the southern Himalayas), through northern Indochina and East Asia (north to the Amur region; the Russian populations have sometimes been referred to as \"Nelumbo komarovii\"), with isolated locations at the Caspian Sea. Today the species also occurs in southern India, Sri Lanka, virtually all of Southeast Asia, New Guinea and northern and eastern Australia, but this is probably the result of human translocations. It has a very long history ( 3,000 years) of being cultivated for its edible seeds, and it is commonly cultivated in water gardens. It is the national flower of India and Vietnam.\n\nThe lotus is often confused with the water lilies (\"Nymphaea\", in particular \"Nymphaea caerulea\" \"blue lotus\"). In fact, several older systems, such as the Bentham & Hooker system (which is widely used in the Indian subcontinent) refer to the lotus by its old synonym of \"Nymphaea nelumbo\". This is, however, taxonomically incorrect. Far from being in the same family, \"Nymphaea\" and \"Nelumbo\" are members of different orders (Nymphaeales and Proteales, respectively).\n\nWhile all modern plant taxonomy systems agree that this species belongs in the genus \"Nelumbo\", the systems disagree as to which family \"Nelumbo\" should be placed in, or whether the genus should belong in its own unique family and order. According to the APG IV system, \"N. nucifera\", \"N. lutea\", and their extinct relatives in Proteales with the protea flowers due to genetic comparisons. Older systems, such as the Cronquist system, place \"N. nucifera\" and its relatives in the order Nymphaeles based on anatomical similarities.\n\nThe roots of \"lotus\" are planted in the soil of the pond or river bottom, while the leaves float on top of the water surface or are held well above it. The flowers are usually found on thick stems rising several centimeters above the leaves. The plant normally grows up to a height of about 150 cm and a horizontal spread of up to 3 meters, but some unverified reports place the height as high as over 5 meters. The leaves may be as large as 60 cm in diameter, while the showy flowers can be up to 20 cm in diameter.\n\nResearchers report that the lotus has the remarkable ability to regulate the temperature of its flowers to within a narrow range just as humans and other warmblooded animals do. Roger S. Seymour and Paul Schultze-Motel, physiologists at the University of Adelaide in Australia, found that lotus flowers blooming in the Adelaide Botanic Gardens maintained a temperature of , even when the air temperature dropped to . They suspect the flowers may be doing this to attract coldblooded insect pollinators. Studies published in the journals \"Nature\" and \"Philosophical Transactions: Biological Sciences\" were in 1996 and 1998 important contributions in the field of thermoregulation, heat-producing, in plants. Two other species known to be able to regulate their temperature include \"Symplocarpus foetidus\" and \"Philodendron selloum\".\n\nAn individual lotus can live for over a thousand years and has the rare ability to revive into activity after stasis. In 1994, a seed from a sacred lotus, dated at roughly 1,300 years old ± 270 years, was successfully germinated.\n\nThe traditional Sacred Lotus is only distantly related to \"Nymphaea caerulea\", but possesses similar chemistry. Both \"Nymphaea caerulea\" and \"Nelumbo nucifera\" contain the alkaloids nuciferine and aporphine.\n\nThe genome of the sacred lotus was sequenced in May 2013.\n\nThe Sacred Lotus grows in water up to . The minimum water depth should not be lower than . In colder climates such a low water level, which heats up more quickly, is helpful for better growth and flowering. Lotus germinates at temperatures above . Most varieties are not cold-hardy. In the growing season from April to September (northern hemisphere), the average daytime temperature needed is . In regions with low light levels in winter, the sacred lotus has a period of dormancy. The tubers are not cold resistant, but can resist temperatures below if they are covered with an insulating cover of water or soil. During winter time, the roots have to be stored at a frost free place.\n\nThe sacred lotus requires a nutrient-rich loamy soil. In the beginning of the summer period (from March until May in the northern hemisphere), a small part of rhizome with at least one eye is either planted in ponds or directly into a flooded field. There are several other propagation ways via seeds or buds. Furthermore, tissue culture is a promising propagation method for the future to produce high volumes of uniform, true-to-type, disease free materials.\n\nFirst step of the cultivation is to plough the dry field. One round of manure is applied after ten days, before flooding the field. To support a quick initial growth, the water level is hold relatively low and is increased when plants grow. Then a maximum of approximately 4000 rhizome pieces per hectare (10000 per acre) are used to plant directly into the mud below the soil surface.\n\nThe stolon is ready to harvest two to three months after planting. It must be harvested before the flowering. Harvesting the stolon is done by manual labour, too. For this step, the field is not drained. By pulling and shaking the young leaves in the shallow water, the stolon is pulled out of the water.\n\nThree months after planting, the first leaves and flowers can be harvested. Flowers can be picked every two days during summer and every three days during the colder season. Four months after planting, the production of flowers has its climax. The harvest of flowers is usually done by hand during three to four months.\n\nSeeds and seed pods can be harvested when they turn black four to eight months after planting. After sun drying for two to three days, they are processed by mechanical tools to separate seed coats and embryos.\n\nThe rhizomes mature to a suitable stage for eating in approximately six to nine months. Early varieties are harvested in July until September and late varieties from October until March, after the ponds or fields are drained. The large, starch rich rhizomes are easy to dig out of the drained soil. In small scale production, they are harvested by hand using fork like tools. In Japan and on bigger farms the manual labour harvesting is fully replaced by machines.\n\nLotus varieties have been classified according to their use into three types: rhizome lotus, seed lotus and flower lotus. Varieties that show more than one of these characteristics are classified by the strongest feature. Regarding production area in China, rhizome lotus has the largest area with , followed by seed lotus with .\n\nRhizome lotus cultivars produce higher yield of and better quality rhizomes than seed and flower lotus. Furthermore, this group grows the tallest and produces no or very few flowers.\n\nCultivars can be classified by harvest time or by the depth of rhizomes into these types:\nThe main popular \"Nelumbo nucifera\" cultivars in China are Elian 1, Elian 4, Elian 5, 9217, Xin 1 and 00–01. Average yield of these cultivars is 7.5–15 t/ha (3.3-6.7 tons/acre) of harvest in July and 30–45 t/ha (13-20 tons/acre) of harvest in September. In Australia, the cultivar grown for the fresh rhizome market is Quangdong and in Japan the common rhizome cultivars are Tenno and Bitchu.\n\nThe characteristics of seed lotus cultivars are a large number of carpels and seed sets as well as large seeds with better nutritional properties. Roots of these varieties are thin, fibrous and do not form good rhizomes. The main popular cultivars for seed production in China are Cunsanlian, Xianglian 1, Zilian 2, Jianlian, Ganlian 62 and Taikong 36. Average yield of these cultivars in China is 1.05–1.9 t/ha (0.5–0.8 tons/acre) of dry seeds and weight of thousand seeds between . Green Jade and Vietnam-Red are recommended cultivars for seed production in Australia.\n\nFlower lotus cultivars are used exclusively for ornamental purpose, produce a large number of flowers and the lowest plant height.\n\nAbout 70% of lotus for the human consumption is produced in China. In 2005, the cultivation area in China was estimated at . A majority of lotus production takes place in managed farming systems in ponds or flooded fields like rice.\n\nThe most widely used system is crop rotation with rice and vegetables. This system is applicable if the propagule (small piece of rhizome) can be planted early in the year. The rhizomes are harvested in July, after which rice can be planted into the same field. Rice is then harvested in October. From November until March, the field stays either free, or a terricolous vegetable such as cabbage or spinach, is planted. Alternatively, the vegetable can also be planted after the harvest of lotus.\n\nAnother alternative way is to not harvest the lotus rhizome, although it is ripe. A terricolous vegetable is planted between the rhizomes into the drained field. The rhizomes are then harvested next March.\n\nA third way is to plant lotus in ponds or fields and raise aquatic animals such as fish, shrimp or crab in the same field. A more efficient use of the water for both, the aquatic animal and the lotus production, has been identified with this planting pattern.\n\nThe rhizomes of lotus are called \"ǒu\" (藕) in Mandarin, \"ngau\" in Cantonese, \"yeongeun\" (연근) in Korean, \"renkon\" (, ) in Japanese, \"thambou\" in Meitei, \"kamal kakri\" in Hindi, \"Behh\" in Sindhi and \"Nelum Ala\" (නෙළුම් අල) in Sinhalese.\n\nThey are consumed as a vegetable in Asian countries, extensively in China and Japan: sold whole or in cut pieces, fresh, frozen, or canned. They are fried or cooked mostly in soups, soaked in syrup or pickled in vinegar (with sugar, chili and garlic). Lotus rhizomes have a crunchy texture with sweet-tangy flavours and are a classic dish at many banquets where they are deep-fried, stir-fried, or stuffed with meats or preserved fruits. Salads with prawns, sesame oil or coriander leaves are also popular. Unfortunately, fresh lotus root slices are limited by a fast browning rate. Lotus root tea is consumed in Korea.\n\nJapan is one of the primary users of the rhizomes, representing about 1% of all vegetables consumed. Japan grows its own lotus but still must import 18,000 tons of lotus rhizome each year, of which China provides 15,000 tons yearly.\n\nRhizomes contain high amounts of starch (31.2%) without characteristic taste or odor. The texture is comparable to a raw potato. The binding and disintegration properties of isolated Nelumbo starch have been compared with maize and potato starch; Nelumbo starch is shown to be superior as an adjuvant in the preparation of tablets. When dried, N. nucifera is also made into flour, another popular use of this vegetable.\n\nLotus pip tea is consumed in Korea.\n\nFresh lotus seeds () are nutritious but also vulnerable to microbial contamination, especially fungal infections. Therefore, mostly dry lotus seed-based products are found on the market. Traditional sun baking combining with charcoal processing dries the seeds but results in loss of nutrients. Freeze-dried lotus seeds have a longer shelf life and maintain original nutrients , while no differences in flavour is found after rehydration compared to fresh lotus seeds.\n\nDry stored lotus seeds are sensitive to moisture and mold infestation; researchers continue to explore new ways to preserve fresh lotus seeds for example radiation processing.\n\nLotus seeds can be processed into moon cake, lotus seed noodles and food in forms of paste, fermented milk, rice wine, ice cream, popcorn (phool makhana) and others, with lotus seeds as the main raw material. Fresh lotus seed wine has thirst quenching, spleen healing and anti-diarrheal advantages after drinking. Lotus seed tea is consumed in Korea, and lotus embryo tea is consumed in China and Vietnam.\n\nThere is still much potential for research and development, mainly reflected in the extraction, separation and purification of lotus seed nutrients and bioactive compounds.\n\nYoung lotus stems are used as a salad ingredient in Vietnamese cuisine.\n\nIn South Indian states, the lotus stem is sliced, marinated with salt to dry, and the dried slices are fried and used as a side dish. In Kerala (in Malayalam \"താമര\") and Tamil Nadu, this end product is called \" Thamara Vathal\".\n\nIn Korea, lotus leaf tea (연잎차 \"yeonipcha\") is made from the leaves of the lotus.\n\nIn Korea, lotus flower tea (연꽃차 \"yeonkkotcha\") is made from the dried petals of the white lotus.\n\nThe stamens can be dried and made into a fragrant herbal tea (), or used to impart a scent to tea leaves (particularly in Vietnam). This Vietnamese lotus tea is called \"trà sen\", \"chè sen\", or \"chè ướp sen\".\n\nThe petals, leaves and rhizome can also all be eaten raw, but there is a risk of parasite transmission (e.g., \"Fasciolopsis buski\"): it is therefore recommended that they be cooked before eating.\n\n\"Nelumbo nucifera\" shows high potential for usage in wastewater treatment removing polluting compounds and heavy metals. It is able to grow in variable water conditions and in low light intensity. Various studies show the successful use of \"N. nucifera\" to counteract water eutrophication. The leaves of the floating lotus reduce sunlight reaching the lower part of the water. This suppresses algae growth in \"N. nucifera\" aquatic systems and thus, the oxygen content is up to 20% higher than in other aquatic plant systems. Due to intense agricultural practices, nitrogen and phosphorus pollution are major problems in aquatic systems. \"N. nucifera\" is able to assimilate a higher content of phosphorus than aquatic plants currently used for water remediation (such as water hyacinth). It also assimilates nitrogen (\"denitrification\") and creates a habitat for bacterial growth in the water body. Through rhizofiltration heavy metals – including arsenic, copper and cadmium – can be removed efficiently from the water. The results observed are impressive showing 96% of copper and 85% cadmium metals removed after a seven-day incubation period. The accumulation of heavy metals doesn't show morphological symptoms of metal toxicity; however, the rhizome quality for human consumption needs further study.\n\nCurrently most rhizomes are consumed fresh and it is not common to store them due to their poor shelf life performance. This limits export possibilities for low-income production countries in Asia. Rhizomes quickly lose water, oxidation occurs and nutrient composition changes within a short time after harvest. Optimal storage temperatures range between . There are three different approaches to storing rhizomes. By stacking the rhizomes, they are storable and remain fresh for about three weeks. Special stacking with silver sand and soil results in five to six layers that prevent water loss, thus the rhizome stays fresh for up to two months. However the method is not suitable for commercialization but rather for home use. Hydrogen sulfide fumigation reduces enzymatic browning and therefore ensures rhizome quality. Dipping the rhizomes in a salt solution prevents oxidation and bacterial reproduction, which allows storage for up to five months and a greater export ability. This treatment is related to high cost and inefficient cleaning process before eating the rhizomes.\n\n\"Nelumbo nucifera\" contains some thermal-stable proteins that might be useful in protein bio engineering processes. The proteins are characterized by seed longevity used for cell protection and repair under stress. There are also several indications that compounds of \"N. nucifera\" are used in drug fabrication in human health research for multiple purposes.\n\nThe distinctive dried seed heads, which resemble the spouts of watering cans, are widely sold throughout the world for decorative purposes and for dried flower arranging.\n\nIn Asia, the petals are sometimes used for garnish, while the large leaves are used as a wrap for food, not frequently eaten (for example, as a wrapper for \"zongzi\").\n\nA unique fabric from the lotus plant fibers is produced only at Inle lake, Myanmar and in Siem Reap (Cambodia) is used for weaving special robes for Buddha images called \"kya thingahn\" (lotus robe).\n\nThe flavonol miquelianin, as well as the alkaloids (+)-(1\"R\")-coclaurine and (−)-(1\"S\")-norcoclaurine, can be found in the leaves of \"N. nucifera\". The plant also contains nuciferine and aporphine.\n\nAll parts of \"Nelumbo nucifera\" are edible, with the rhizome and seeds being the main consumption parts. Traditionally rhizomes, leaves, and seeds have been used as folk medicines, Ayurveda, Chinese traditional medicine, and oriental medicine. While leaves are used for hematemesis, epistaxis, and hematuria, the flowers are used for diarrhea, cholera, fever, and hyperdipsia. Rhizomes are promoted have purported diuretic, antidiabetic, and anti-inflammatory properties. In Chinese medicine, seeds are still used as Lian Zi Xi.\n\nLotus rhizomes and seeds and their processing by-products are widely consumed in Asia, Americas, and Oceania for high content of physiologically active substances. Especially in China, lotus seeds are popular with a cultural history going back about 3000 years. As early as the Han Dinasty, lotus seeds were already recorded as sweet, astringent, nourishing the heart and kidney in \"Shen Nong's Herbal Classic\". Nowadays there are 22 varieties for the four known Chinese lines, which are found particularly in Jianning (still called \"the town of Jianlian lotus seeds in China\") and Guangchang (\"the town of white lotus seeds in China\").\n\nThese days the perennial aquatic herb is gaining popularity because of its nutraceutical and historical importance It will be of economic value if the different parts of lotus can be developed as functional food. Because of the special role in human health and richness in nutrients and bioactive substances, the Chinese Ministry of Health approved the use of N. nucifera as both \"food and medicine\".\n\nThe rhizomes are long, in diameter, yellowish white to yellowish brown, smooth and with nodes and internodes.\n\nThe lotus root is used to add seasoning to food. Lotus root is a moderate calorie root vegetable (100 g of root-stem provides about 74 calories) and is composed of several vitamins, minerals, and nutrients: 83.80% water, 0.11% fat, 1.56% reducing sugar, 0.41% sucrose, 2.70% crude protein, 9.25% starch, 0.80% fiber, 0.10% ash and 0.06% calcium. 100 g of root provides 44 mg of vitamin C or 73% of daily recommended values (RDA).\n\nLotus rhizome and its extracts have shown diuretic, psychopharmacological, anti-diabetic, anti-obesity, hypoglycemic, antipyretic and antioxidant activities.\n\nLotus seeds are mostly oval or spherical, with sizes varying according to varieties. They are generally 1.2–1.8 cm long, with diameter ranging from 0.8 to 1.4 cm and a weight of 1.1–1.4 g. After lotus seeds have been decorticated and peeled, they are edible and rich in nutrients, and can be dried for storage. Their nutritional values can differ due to culture environments and varieties.\n\nNot only do these seeds contain proteins of high quality and are rich in variety of essential amino acids including high contents of albumin (42%) and globulin (27%), they also contain unsaturated fatty acids, carbohydrates, vitamins, calcium, iron, zinc, phosphorus and other trace elements. They also provide water-soluble polysaccharides, alkaloids, flavonoids, superoxide dismutase and other bioactive components.\n\nLotus seed also contain particularly large amounts of vitamins, including VB1, VB2, VB6 and Vitamin E.\n\nThe functional components (polyphenols, protein, polysaccharides) in \"N. nucifera\" seeds can help combatting high blood pressure, diabetes and gallstones. Lotus seed's water-soluble polysaccharides have also been shown to promote lymphocyte transformation and enhance the immune function.\n\nAfter lotus seed germination, crude protein and fat levels in the endosperm significantly increase. It is therefore an important method to enhance its nutritional quality.\n\n\"Nelumbo nucifera\" is the species of lotus sacred to both Hindus and Buddhists.\n\nHindus revere it with the divinities Vishnu and Lakshmi often portrayed on a pink lotus in iconography. In the representation of Vishnu as Padmanabha (Lotus navel), a lotus issues from his navel with Brahma on it. The goddess Saraswati is portrayed on a white-colored lotus. The lotus is the symbol of what is divine or immortality in humanity, and is also a symbol of divine perfection. The lotus is the attribute of sun and fire gods. It symbolizes the realization of inner potential and in Tantric and Yogic traditions the lotus symbolizes the potential of an individual to harness the flow of energy moving through the chakras ( often depicted as wheel like lotuses) flowering as the thousand -petaled lotus of enlightenment at the top of the skull. \n\nOften used as an example of divine beauty, Vishnu is often described as the \"Lotus-Eyed One\". Its unfolding petals suggest the expansion of the soul. The growth of its pure beauty from the mud of its origin holds a benign spiritual promise. In Hindu iconography, other deities, like Ganga and Ganesha are often depicted with lotus flowers as their seats.\n\nThe lotus plant is cited extensively within Puranic and Vedic literature, for example:\n\nIn Chinese culture, Confucian scholar Zhou Dunyi wrote:\n\nThe lotus is also representative of Macau, and its flag features said flower.\n\nMany deities of Asian religions are depicted as seated on a lotus flower. In Buddhist symbolism, the lotus represents purity of the body, speech and mind, as if floating above the murky waters of material attachment and physical desire. According to legend, Gautama Buddha was born with the ability to walk with lotus flowers blooming everywhere he stepped. In Tibet, Padmasambhava, the Lotus-Born, is considered the Second Buddha, having brought Buddhism to that country by conquering or converting local deities.\n\nThe founders (tirthankaras) of Jainism are potrayed to be seated or standing on lotus blossoms.The Jain tirthankara Padmaprabha is also represented by the symbol of lotus.Padmaprabha means ‘bright as a red lotus’ in Sanskrit.It is said in Śvetāmbara sources that his mother had a fancy for a couch of red lotuses – padma – while he was in her womb.\n\nThe lotus is mentioned in the Bible is Job 40: 21 – 22 when God speaks to Job.The Bible information on the lotus plant is : it grows in marshes and streams and the plant grows large enough to cover and conceal the behemoth.\n\nIn Christianity, the St. Thomas Cross features a lotus being at the base of the cross.\n\nDrawing in turn on these beliefs, the international Bahá'í community adopted this symbolism in the design of the Lotus Temple in New Delhi, India.\nIn the classical written and oral literature of many Asian cultures the lotus is present in figurative form, representing elegance, beauty, perfection, purity and grace, being often used in poems and songs as an allegory for ideal feminine attributes. In Sanskrit the word lotus (\"padma\" पद्म) has many synonyms.\n\nSince the lotus thrives on water, \"ja\" (denoting birth) is added to synonyms of water to derive some synonyms for the lotus, like \"rajiv\", \"ambuja\" (ambu= water + ja=born of), \"neerja\" (neera=water + ja= born of), \"pankaj\", \"pankaja\", \"kamal\", \"kamala\", \"kunala\", \"aravind\", \"arvind\", \"nalin\",\"nalini\" and \"saroja\" and names derived from the lotus, like \"padmavati\" (possessing lotuses) or \"padmini\" (full of lotuses). These names and derived versions are often used to name girls, and to a lesser extent boys, in India, Nepal, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, as well as in many other nations influenced by Indic culture, like Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Indonesia and Malaysia.\nThe lotus flower is also the state flower of several Indian states, including Karnataka, Haryana, and Andhra Pradesh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "239835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239835", "title": "Ogre", "text": "Ogre\n\nAn ogre (feminine: \"ogress\") is a legendary monster usually depicted as a large, hideous, man-like being that eats ordinary human beings, especially infants and children. Ogres frequently feature in mythology, folklore, and fiction throughout the world. They appear in many classic works of literature, and are most often associated in fairy tales and legend with a taste for infants.\n\nIn mythology, ogres are often depicted as inhumanly large and tall and having a disproportionately large head, abundant hair, unusually colored skin, a voracious appetite, and a strong body. Ogres are closely linked with giants and with human cannibals in mythology. In both folklore and fiction, giants are often given ogrish traits (such as the giants in \"Jack and the Beanstalk\" and \"Jack the Giant Killer\", the Giant Despair in \"The Pilgrim's Progress\", and the jötnar of Norse mythology); while ogres may be given giantish traits.\n\nFurther examples of famous folktales featuring ogres include \"Puss in Boots\" and \"Hop-o'-My-Thumb\"; while the most famous ogres in modern fiction are the eponymous main character Shrek and his wife Fiona from the animated comedy film series of the same name. Other characters and monsters sometimes comparable to or described as ogres in trait include the titular husband in \"Bluebeard\", the Beast from \"Beauty and the Beast\", Humbaba from the \"Epic of Gilgamesh\", Grendel from \"Beowulf\", the Cyclops Polyphemus from Homer's \"Odyssey\", the related cyclops in the tales of Sinbad the Sailor, and the oni of Japanese folklore.\n\nThe word \"ogre\" is of French origin, originally derived from the Etruscan god Orcus, who fed on human flesh. Its earliest attestation is in Chrétien de Troyes' late 12th-century verse romance \"Perceval, li contes del graal\", which contains the lines:\n\nThe \"ogres\" in this rhyme may refer to the ogres who were, in the pseudohistorical work \"History of the Kings of Britain\" by Geoffrey of Monmouth, the inhabitants of Britain prior to human settlement. The Italian author Giambattista Basile (1575–1632) used the related Neapolitan word \"uerco\", or in standard Italian, \"orco\" in some of his tales. This word is documented in earlier Italian works (Fazio degli Uberti, 14th century; Luigi Pulci, 15th century; Ludovico Ariosto, 15th–16th centuries) and has even older cognates with the Latin \"orcus\" and the Old English \"orcnēas\" found in Beowulf lines 112–113, which inspired J.R.R. Tolkien's \"Orc\". All these words may derive from a shared Indo-European mythological concept (as Tolkien himself speculated, as cited by Tom Shippey, \"The Road to Middle-earth\", 45). The Dictionary of the Academy of France alternatively states that the name is derived from the word \"Hongrois\", which means Hungarian, as of western cultures referred to Hungarians as a kind of monstrosity. Ogre could possibly also derive from the biblical Og, last of the giants (or from the Greek river god Oiagros, father of Orpheus).\n\nThe word \"ogre\" came into wider usage in the works of Charles Perrault (1628–1703) or Marie-Catherine Jumelle de Berneville, Comtesse d' Aulnoy (1650–1705), both of whom were French authors. The first appearance of the word \"ogre\" in Perrault's work occurred in his \"Histoires ou Contes du temps Passé\" (1696). It later appeared in several of his other fairy tales, many of which were based on the Neapolitan tales of Basile. The first example of a female ogre being referred to as an \"ogress\" is found in his version of \"Sleeping Beauty\", where it is spelled \"ogresse.\" Madame d'Aulnoy first employed the word \"ogre\" in her story \"L'Orangier et l'Abeille\" (1698), and was the first to use the word \"ogree\" to refer to the creature's offspring.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "200052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200052", "title": "Paul Bourget", "text": "Paul Bourget\n\nPaul Charles Joseph Bourget (; 2 September 185225 December 1935) was a French novelist and critic. He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature five times.\n\nPaul Bourget was born in Amiens in the Somme \"département\" of Picardy, France. His father, a professor of mathematics, was later appointed to a post in the college at Clermont-Ferrand, where Bourget received his early education. He afterwards studied at the Lycée Louis-le-Grand and at the École des Hautes Études.\n\nBetween 1872 and 1873, he produced a volume of verse, \"Au Bord de la Mer\", which was followed by others, the last, \"Les Aveux\", appearing in 1882. Meanwhile, he was making a name in literary journalism and in 1883 he published \"Essais de Psychologie Contemporaine\", studies of eminent writers first printed in the \"Nouvelle Revue\", and now brought together. In 1884 Bourget paid a long visit to Britain, where he wrote his first published story (\"L'Irréparable\"). \"Cruelle Enigme\" followed in 1885; then \"André Cornelis\" (1886) and \"Mensonges\" (1887) - inspired by Octave Mirbeau's life - were received with much favour.\n\nBourget, who had abandoned Catholicism in 1867, began a gradual return to it in 1889, fully converting only in 1901. In 1893, in an interview he gave in America, he spoke about his changed views: \"For many years I, like most young men in modern cities, was content to drift along in agnosticism, but I was brought to my senses at last by the growing realization that...the life of a man who simply said 'I don't know, and not knowing I do the thing that pleases me,' was not only empty in itself and full of disappointment and suffering, but was a positive influence for evil upon the lives of others.\" On the other hand, \"those men and women who follow the teachings of the church are in a great measure protected from the moral disasters which...almost invariably follow when men and women allow themselves to be guided and swayed by their senses, passions and weaknesses.\" These were the themes of his novel \"Le Disciple\" (1889), which he wrote, as he says in his American interview, just after abandoning his \"drifting and comfortable belief in agnosticism\". It is the story of philosopher Adrien Sixte, whose advocacy of materialism and positivism wields a terrible influence over an admiring but unstable student, Robert Geslon, whose actions, in turn, lead to the tragic death of a young woman. \"Le Disciple\" caused a stir in France and became a bestseller. Exemplifying the novelist's graver side, it was one of Gladstone's favourite books. John Cowper Powys listed \"Le Disciple\" at number 33 in his \"One Hundred Best Books\".\n\n\"Études et portraits\", first published in 1888, contains impressions of Bourget's stay in England and Ireland—especially reminiscences of the months which he spent at Oxford and in 1891 \"Sensations d'Italie\", notes of a tour in that country, revealed a fresh phase of his powers; and \"Outre-Mer\" (1895), a book in two volumes, is his critical journal of a visit to the United States in 1893. Also in 1891 appeared the novel \"Coeur de Femme\", and \"Nouveaux Pastels\", \"types\" of the characters of men, the sequel to a similar gallery of female types (\"Pastels\", 1890). His later novels include \"La Terre Promise\" (1892); \"Cosmopolis\" (1892), a psychological novel, with Rome as a background; \"Une Idylle tragique\" (1896); \"La Duchesse bleue\" (1897); \"Le Fantôme\" (1901); \"Les Deux Sœurs\" (1905); and some volumes of shorter stories—\"Complications Sentimentales\" (1896), the powerful \"Drames de famille\" (1898), and \"Un Homme d'Affaires\" (1900). \"L'Etape\" (1902) was a study of the inability of a family raised too rapidly from the peasant class to adapt itself to new conditions. This powerful study of contemporary manners was followed by \"Un Divorce\" (1904), a defence of the Roman Catholic position that divorce is a violation of natural laws. He was admitted to the Académie française in 1894, and in 1895 was promoted to be an officer of the Légion d'honneur, having received the decoration of the order ten years before.\n\nSeveral new novels were to follow, including \"La Vie Passe\" (1910), \"Le Sens de la Mort\" (1915), \"Lazarine\" (1917), \"Némésis\" (1918), and \"Laurence Albani\" (1920), as well as three volumes of short stories and plays, \"La Barricade\" (1910) and \"Le Tribun\" (1912). Two other plays, \"Un Cas de Conscience\" (1910) and \"La Crise\" (1912) were written by him in collaboration with others. A volume of critical studies appeared in 1912, and another set of travel sketches, \"Le Démon du Midi\", in 1914.\nOn 16 March 1914, he was present in the offices of the newspaper, \"Le Figaro\" when the newspaper's editor, his friend Gaston Calmette was shot and killed by Henriette Caillaux the wife of a former Prime Minister of France. Her subsequent trial caused an enormous scandal at the time.\n\nHe was a contributor to \"Le Visage de l'Italie\", a 1929 book about Italy prefaced by Benito Mussolini.\n\nBourget died on Christmas Day 1935, aged 83, in Paris.\n\nAs a writer of verse Bourget's poems, which were collected in two volumes (1885–1887), throw light upon his mature method and the later products of his art. It was in criticism that he excelled. Notable are the \"Sensations d'Italie\" (1891), and the various psychological studies.\n\nBourget's reputation as a novelist is assured in some academic and intellectual circles but while they were widely popular in his time, his novels have long been largely forgotten by the general reading public. Impressed by the art of Henry Beyle (Stendhal), he struck out on a new course at a moment when the realist school was the vogue in French fiction. With Bourget, observation was mainly directed to the human character. At first his purpose seemed to be purely artistic, but when \"Le Disciple\" appeared, in 1889, the preface to that story revealed his moral enthusiasm. After that, he varied between his earlier and his later manner, but his work in general was more seriously conceived. He painted the intricate emotions of women, whether wronged, erring or actually vicious; and he described the ideas, passions and failures of the young men of France.\n\nOne of his poems was the inspiration for an art song by Claude Debussy titled Beau Soir.\nOther settings by Debussy of poems by Bourget include 'Romance' and 'Les Cloches'.\n\n\nIn English translation\n\nSelected articles\n\n"}
{"id": "40359338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40359338", "title": "Pedro Marieluz Garces", "text": "Pedro Marieluz Garces\n\nPedro Marieluz Garcés (or Peter Marielux) (born in 1780 in Tarma/Peru, died on 23 September 1825 in Callao/Peru) was a Roman Catholic priest who died as a martyr of the Seal of the Confessional.\n\nAs a young man, Pedro Marieluz Garcés entered the order of the Camillians and was ordained a priest in 1805.\n\nLater he became a military chaplain with the troops of the Spanish Royal Governor, Ramón Rodil. During the siege of the fortress Real Felipe in the city of Callao after the Battle of Ayacucho, there was a conspiracy made against Rodil by some of the Royal soldiers. The plot was discovered and Rodil sentenced the conspirators to death. They were allowed to confess to Father Marieluz before being shot. After the execution of the plotters, Rodil is said to have doubted whether he had convicted all members of the plot and, thinking that the executed ones would have revealed everything in confession to Father Marieluz, he tried to force the confessor to disclose to him what he had heard under the holy seal by threatening him to be shot likewise, if he would not obey. But Father Marieluz remained steadfast and thus died a martyr in the evening of 23 September 1825, as his legend tells us.\n\n"}
{"id": "25589058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25589058", "title": "Religious liberalism", "text": "Religious liberalism\n\nReligious liberalism is a conception of religion (or of a particular religion) which emphasizes personal and group liberty and rationality. It is an attitude towards one's own religion (as opposed to criticism of religion from a secular position, and as opposed to criticism of a religion other than one's own) which contrasts with a traditionalist or orthodox approach, and it is directly opposed by trends of religious fundamentalism. It is related to religious liberty, which is the tolerance of different religious beliefs and practices, but not all promoters of religious liberty are in favor of religious liberalism, and vice versa.\n\n\"Liberalism\" in the context of religious liberalism conveys the sense of classical liberalism as it developed in the Enlightenment era, which forms the starting point of both religious and political liberalism; but religious liberalism does not necessarily coincide with all meanings of \"liberalism\" in political philosophy. For example, an empirical attempt to show a link between religious liberalism and political liberalism proved inconclusive in a 1973 study in Illinois.\n\nUsage of the term \"liberal\" in the context of religious philosophy appeared as early as the mid-19th century and became established by the first part of the 20th century; for example, in 1936, philosophy professor and Disciples of Christ minister Edward Scribner Ames wrote in his article \"Liberalism in Religion\": \n\nReligious traditionalists, who reject the idea that tenets of modernity should have any impact on religious tradition, challenge the concept of religious liberalism. Secularists, who reject the idea that implementation of rationalistic or critical thought leaves any room for religion altogether, likewise dispute religious liberalism.\n\n\"Liberal Christianity\" is an umbrella term for the developments in Christian theology and culture since the Enlightenment of the late 18th century. It has become mostly mainstream within the major Christian denominations in the Western world, but is opposed by a movement of Christian fundamentalism which developed in response to these trends, and also contrasts with conservative forms of Christianity outside the Western world and outside the reach of Enlightenment philosophy and modernism, mostly within Eastern Christianity.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church in particular has a long tradition of controversy regarding questions of religious liberalism. Cardinal John Henry Newman (1801–1890), for example, was seen as moderately liberal by 19th-century standards because he was critical of papal infallibility, but he explicitly opposed \"liberalism in religion\" because he argued it would lead to complete relativism. The Anglican Christian apologist C. S. Lewis voiced a similar view in the 20th century, arguing that \"theology of the liberal type\" amounted to a complete re-invention of Christianity and a rejection of Christianity as understood by its own founders.\n\nAlongside the development of liberal theology in Christianity, German-Jewish religious reformers began to incorporate critical thought and humanist ideas into Judaism from the early 19th century. This resulted in the creation of various non-Orthodox denominations, from the moderately liberal Conservative Judaism to very liberal Reform Judaism. The moderate wing of Modern Orthodox Judaism, especially Open Orthodoxy, espouses a similar approach.\n\nWhile Christianity and Judaism in the Western world have had to deal with modernity since its emergence in the 18th century—or even since the Renaissance and its consequences of Reformation and Counter-Reformation—Islam (along with Jewish and Christian traditions in the Middle East) was not immediately affected by modernity and Enlightenment philosophy. Examples of liberal movements within Islam are Progressive British Muslims (formed following the 2005 London terrorist attacks, defunct by 2012), British Muslims for Secular Democracy (formed 2006), or Muslims for Progressive Values (formed 2007).\n\nSimilarly, Eastern religions were not immediately affected by liberalism and Enlightenment philosophy, and have partly undertaken reform movements only after contact with Western philosophy in the 19th or 20th centuries. Thus Hindu reform movements emerged in British India in the 19th century. Buddhist modernism (or \"New Buddhism\") arose in its Japanese form as a reaction to the Meiji Restoration, and was again transformed outside of Japan in the 20th century, notably giving rise to modern Zen Buddhism.\n\nThe term liberal religion has been used by Unitarian Christians and by Unitarian Universalists to refer to their own brand of religious liberalism, although the term has also been used by non-Unitarians. \"The Journal of Liberal Religion\" was published by the Unitarian Ministerial Union, Meadville Theological School, and Universalist Ministerial Association from 1939 to 1949, and was edited by James Luther Adams, an influential Unitarian theologian. Fifty years later, a new version of the journal was published in an online format from 1999 to 2009.\n"}
{"id": "52916041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52916041", "title": "Rot op met je religie", "text": "Rot op met je religie\n\nRot op met je religie (English: \"To Hell With Your Religion\") is a 2017 Dutch television series by the Evangelische Omroep, presented by Kefah Allush.\n\nIn this reality show, four religious people (two Christians, a Muslim and a Jew) and two atheists live together in the same house in Haarlem, and discuss and debate their religious beliefs, practices and traditions. It features mutual criticism of religion as well as interfaith dialogue. The participants also travel across the Netherlands to visit houses of worship, an abortion clinic and a halal slaughterhouse amongst other places, and cook together despite their widely varying ethical views on food.\n\nThe EO hopes the programme will show what 'religious stress' does to the candidates, and what effect this has on their beliefs. Just before the first episode was broadcast, the EO published a survey about religious stress amongst Dutch citizens, which showed amongst other things that 93% of the population is in favour of freedom of speech, and 82% supports freedom of religion, but almost half think that religion should not be professed in public. Previously, the EO made similar programmes about refugees (\"Rot op naar je eigen land\", \"Piss Off To Your Own Country\", 2015) and environmental issues (\"Rot op met je milieu\", \"Get Lost With Your Environment\", 2016).\n\nStichting KijkOnderzoek, a ratings tracking service, reported that about 531,000 people watched the first episode.\n\nAccording to \"NRC Handelsblad\", the EO used the programme to deliberately fan the flames of religious stress, and by their selection of participants created an unfair representation of the various worldviews: \"The casting wants us to primarily look for reasonableness amongst the four religious participants (...). Even the two non-believers clash occasionally, because one is vegan and the other finds that to be politically correct bullshit. In short: in the first episode, the religious stress isn't quite fairly distributed yet between the followers of God and those who reject the existence of the fairytale character of god.\"\n\nAfter three episodes, \"de Volkskrant\", too, concluded that \"the EO does everything within their power to let all hell break loose. There is no live and let live.\" Just like in the previous \"Rot op\" series, the programme would primarily be \"about confrontation, heated discussions and perhaps a vain hope of reconciliation.\" It noted that the most fierce nonbeliever, Floris, \"is portrayed the least sympathetic by the montage so far.\" On the preview of the fourth episode, in which Safeer shows his unease when meeting a gay Muslim, the newspaper's reviewer (referencing ) commented: \"Someone saw the announcement, and saw it was not good. \"Stress!\"\"\nA critic from ThePostOnline disagreed with the \"Volkskrant\"'s criticism of the montage: \"By definition, media select that which is appetising.\" On the contrary, 'sensational television' is interesting, especially to discover who 'understands the art of living and tolerance best'. In his opinion, the atheist and vegan Floris, \"whose raised voice against his religious fellow man may go into Dutch television history as legendary\", drawing the comparison to the late politician Pim Fortuyn, finishes last in this regard, followed by the imam Safeer, whilst sympathy for the atheist Bryan is growing throughout the series, and the Jewish Sheila has had the audience's sympathy from the beginning. Furthermore, the EO allegedly lacked a sense of humour, and the idea of 'let it be' would only rarely feature in the show.\n\n"}
{"id": "30943300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30943300", "title": "Sapinda", "text": "Sapinda\n\nSapinda is a term used in context of cousin marriages in Hinduism.\n\n\"\"Sapinda\" relationship\" with reference to any person extends as far as the third generation (inclusive) in the line of ascent through the mother, and the fifth (inclusive) in the line of ascent through the father, the line being traced upwards in each case from the person concerned, who is to be counted as the first generation.\n\nTwo persons are said to be \"\"sapindas\" of each other if one is a lineal ascendant of the other within the limits of \"sapinda\" relationship, or if they have a common lineal ascendant who is within the limits of \"sapinda\" relationship with reference to each of them.\n\nFor example, if the bride is the offspring of any person within five generations (inclusive) on the groom's father's side and three generations (inclusive) on the groom's mother's side, or vice versa, they will be referred to as \"sapindas\" of each other. In these cases, the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 bars marriage between two Hindus of this nature.\n\nSection 5 of the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955 laid down conditions for a Hindu marriage. A marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus, if the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:-\n\nOut of the five above conditions, this article refers to the condition stated under section 5(v), which states that if the Hindu bride and the Hindu groom are \"sapindas\"\" of each other, the marriage between the two cannot be solemnized by law and will be legally void.\n\n"}
{"id": "42531469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42531469", "title": "Traditional African religion and other religions", "text": "Traditional African religion and other religions\n\nTraditional African religions have shared notable relationships with other religions, cultures, and traditions.\n\nThroughout the history, they are often noted for having one of the oldest presence in the world, and also applauded for its tolerance with other religions.\n\nLike Hinduism, the traditional African religion recognizes the presence of one supreme deity as well as the existence of God in multiple aspects.\n\nTraditional Igbo doctrine of reincarnation and connection to the spiritual mortal identity of the culture, themes about spiritual instrumentality based on the traditional Igobo beliefs and practices with the Hindu mantra, specifically the doctrine in the creative power of the spoken word are identical.\n\nGod is esteemed by both African religion and Christianity as both the very ground being, and the necessary of life, and any form of being or existence, such as the creation itself. Anthropology is the basic starting place for both religions, human beings are the temporal mirrors and mediators (imago Dei) of God in the feature world.\n\nThe Christian idea of church has similarities with African traditional life in which brotherhood and the extended family play a central role. The Church is the Christian family, in which all are accompanied to one another through belief and baptism in Jesus Christ. The Church also combines those who have died and those who still live. This is parallel view to the African view of the family of both the living and the omitted.\n\nAfrican traditional religion is also regarded to have influenced Islam, but despite this African customs were simply rejected by the Muslims. Muslim missionaries in Africa have often used violence as a means of conversion. It also notable that before the expansion of Islam, human sacrifices were common in Egypt, Egyptians conducted to sacrifice female to River Nile, every year when it was flooded. The flood would remain until a young female was thrown into it as a sacrifice. During the reign of Caliph Umar bin al-Khattab, Amr bin al-Aas, the governor of Egypt, wrote to Umar askin his direction for such activity. There is a story that Umar answered by writing a note to be thrown into the Nile river instead of sacrificing a female to it. The note enclosed verses from the Qur'an and a command from Umar asking the Nile to flow fluently in the name of Allah without causing any damage to inhabitants. When the note was thrown into the Nile, the flood dissolved. After that they won't sacrifice human.\n\nToday, even after the suppression of African traditional religion, the religion has its notable traces in northern Africa. Followers of African religion in Muslim dominated areas can be found, adhering their beliefs, rituals, magic, medicines. Generally they have adopted the Muslim way of dressing but in matter of deeper subjects such as life, birth, marriage, death, they remain the followers of African religion.\n\nRelations of African religion with Buddhism dates back to 17th century. After the establishment of the Dutch settlement at Cape Agulhas, some Buddhists paid short, coincidental visits to the Cape Agulhas - such as the few Thai monks who were aboard the Portuguese ship which ran aground off.\n\nLike Hinduism, Akan tradition shares belief in reincarnation with Buddhism.\n\n"}
{"id": "1106360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1106360", "title": "Volunteer Ministers", "text": "Volunteer Ministers\n\nA Volunteer Minister (VM) is a member of Scientology sent to a disaster zone to spread the doctrine of Scientology and provide disaster relief. The program was created in the 1970s by Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard. As of 2016, The volunteer ministers has a network of over 9,000 trained ministers.\n\nThe Church of Scientology says that the program constitutes \"the only effective steps to arrest and reverse the deterioration of [the] world\", but critics argue that Scientology uses the program to gain positive media attention and recruit new members (known within Scientology as 'raw meat').\n\nControversy over the group's goals and activities notwithstanding, one local official in India welcomed their assistance.\n\nAccording to Hubbard, the objective of the program is to \"put basic Dianetics and Scientology technology into view and into use at the raw public level.\" In Hubbard's words, \"The Volunteer Minister's Handbook\" \"will be broadly distributed on Scn and non-Scientology lines, bought by the man on the street. He'll use some of the data, produce some miracles, save a marriage or two, rescue some kid from drugs, help his next door neighbor who's upset because her child's failing in school and couldn't care less, plus brighten up her yawning of Spring and teach him to study, and handle Aunt Martha's dizziness with assists.\"\n\nEach Volunteer Minister pays to attend a two-week course and purchase Scientology materials; in 1994, these materials cost $435. The book is called \"The Scientology Handbook\" and is 968 pages long.\n\nScientology spokesman Eric Roux writes: “A Scientology volunteer minister is trained to bring spiritual assistance to anyone in any aspect of life, whether it is to increase his communication ability, his study skills, help raising children or save marriages, as well as dozens of other domains of intervention.”\n\nThe program is the successor to earlier Scientology outreach efforts, notably the \"Casualty Contact\" program for recruiting new Scientologists (called \"preclears\") from hospitals, the scenes of accidents and other places where people might have experienced trauma. As Hubbard put it, \"One takes every daily paper he can get his hands on and cuts from it every story whereby he might have a preclear. [...] He should represent himself to the person or the person's family as a minister whose compassion was compelled by the newspaper story concerning the person. [...].\"\n\nHubbard advised that \"using his minister's card, an auditor need only barge into any non-sectarian hospital, get permission to visit the wards from the superintendent, mentioning nothing about processing but only about taking care of people's souls.\" The primary objective was simply to recruit more members for Scientology: \"Some small percentage of the persons visited or their families will turn up in his group. Thus he will build a group and naturally from that group he will get a great many individual preclears.\" This was, however, not how the program was to be presented to the general public: \"A great many miracles will follow in his wake and he is later to become a subject of the press himself. However, in handling the press we should simply say that it is a mission of the Church to assist those who are in need of assistance.\"\n\nThe Volunteer Ministers program is also intended to operate as a recruitment activity. As Hubbard puts it,\n\nIn recent years, the Church of Scientology has heavily promoted and greatly increased the profile and size of the Volunteer Ministers program. Church publications say that there are over 95,000 Volunteer Ministers - more than the Peace Corps, Americorps and United Nations volunteer programs combined.\nThe Church has set a target of recruiting as many Volunteer Ministers as there are policemen in each of the principal countries in which Scientology is active. In 2001, the Church announced a number of target quotas for Volunteer Minister recruitment, as follows:\n\nHowever, an ARIS demographic study by the City University of New York (CUNY) estimated in 2000 that there may only be 55,000 Scientologists in the whole of the United States.\n\nVolunteer Ministers have frequently been sent to the scenes of major disasters, where they distribute Scientology pamphlets and purport to heal or relieve pain using Scientology techniques such as \"Locationals,\" \"Nerve assists\" and \"Touch assists.\"\n\nVolunteer Ministers have been sent to the site of relief efforts in Southeast Asia in the wake of the December 2004 tsunami and to London Underground stations that were attacked in the 7 July 2005 London bombings. Eight hundred were sent to New Orleans and the Gulf Coast following Hurricane Katrina. In 2012, news broke that Volunteer Ministers were providing purification rundowns in Vietnam to people who had been exposed to Agent Orange; doctors and researchers criticized the Agent Orange treatments as \"unscientific and unproven\" and said that they \"could be harmful\".\n\nVolunteer Ministers have provided assists to relief personnel following September 11 attacks in New York.\n\nThe Volunteer Ministers have also worked in Mississippi, Alabama and Louisiana after hurricanes Katrina and Rita, in the 2010 Haiti earthquake, in the Pakistan flood in 2010, in the Fukushima earthquake in 2011, and the May 2014 floods in Bosnia.\n\nAs with many of the Church of Scientology's programs, the Volunteer Ministers have generated controversy and criticism. The organization provides \"spiritual relief\" parallel with medical treatment, but also does simple tasks such as helping cleanup or fetch food and generally assist the disaster effort as seems indicated. They have been accused of attempting to take advantage of disasters in order to promote Scientology to a grief-stricken populace. Church of Scientology insists that assists are given parallel to medical treatment, not in place of it; the Handbook for Scientology Assists stresses in its basic guidelines: \"Always seek first aid and medical attention when needed. An assist is not a substitute for medical attention or treatment by a qualified doctor. First, call the doctor. Then assist the person as you can.\"\n\nThe Volunteer Minister program most heavily promoted by Scientology took place in the immediate aftermath of the 9/11 attacks. Critics of Scientology accused the organization of attempting to take advantage of the disaster in order to promote Scientology to the grief-stricken populace in the area. The National Mental Health Association issued a public warning in response to the conduct of Scientologists in the immediate aftermath of September 11, claiming that Scientologists were \"Intentionally confusing [the] public\" by presenting themselves as mental health service providers. According to NMHA President Michael M. Faenza, \"The public needs to understand that the Scientologists are using this tragedy to recruit new members. They are not providing mental health assistance.\"\n\nIn Russia, after the Beslan school hostage crisis tragedy in 2004, the Health Ministry ordered Scientologists out of the area, saying \"that various psychological tactics the groups use, including what it called hypnosis, may be harmful not only for adults, but for children that have already suffered severe mental shock.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Volunteer Ministers played a similar role in the aftermath of the 7 July 2005 London bombings, targeting the families of victims and emergency workers. As in the United States in 2001, this resulted in controversy, and it was reported that Volunteer Ministers had been removed from the vicinity of survivors of the bus bombing in Tavistock Square. It later emerged that the Metropolitan Police had agreed to give the Church of Scientology privileged access to the Police Message Broadcasting System, enabling the Church to dispatch Volunteer Minister rapid-response teams in the event of future emergencies in the capital.\n\nPaul Fletcher, director of the London branch of CCHR and Stefania Cisco, a Director of Special Affairs for Scientology, admitted to an undercover BBC reporter that the purpose of the volunteer ministers was to keep the psychiatrists away, and called this \"spiritual security\".\n\nAfter the Virginia Tech massacre, April 16, 2007, 20 Volunteer Ministers were on the campus. Bulletins to Scientology members said that help had been requested by the university provost, the Salvation Army and the Red Cross, but these organizations denied that any requests had been made. The activities of the Volunteer Ministers at Virginia Tech was reported to have received strong criticism from local pastors.\n\n"}
{"id": "53138246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53138246", "title": "Weixinism", "text": "Weixinism\n\nWeixinism (唯心教 \"Wéixīnjiào\"), institutionally also known by the extended title of Holy Church of the Heart-Only (唯心聖教 \"Wéixīn Shèngjiào\") is one of the Chinese salvationist religions born in Taiwan in the late 20th century. It was founded in 1984 in Taichung by Grand Master Hun Yuan. Its global core membership is \"about 300,000, with a larger audience estimated by Taiwan's Ministry of Internal Affairs at 1,000,000\". The church has quickly spread to mainland China since the early 2000s, where it functions as a platform for joint initiatives of the Chinese mainland and Taiwanese governments for the renewal of Chinese culture. It has also developed as a worldwide religious movement, attracting followers not only from the Chinese diaspora, but also communities of other races, including East Asians and even Westerners.\n\nWeixinism operates a synthesis and reproposition for the modern times of ancient Chinese religion and philosophy, primarily focused on the \"orthodox lineages of \"Yijing\" and \"fengshui\"\", the Hundred Schools of Thought, and worship of the \"Three Great Ancestors\" (Huangdi, Yandi and Chiyou). It is defined by scholars as \"the institutionalization of […] diffuse folk beliefs\". The movement promotes the restoration of the authentic roots of the Chinese civilization and Chinese reunification.\n\nWeixinism was founded in the 1980s, in a context where the end of martial law in Taiwan, with the consequent affirmation of freedom of religion, allowed several new religious movements to operate openly and eventually to gain legal recognition. At the same time, in the aftermath of the Cultural Revolution in the mainland, several local new religious movements presented themselves as the guardians of Chinese \"orthodoxy\" in religious beliefs, intended as the genuine religious and cultural tradition that had developed throughout centuries of Chinese history.\n\nAmong the most successful of such movements was Weixinism, which was founded as the result of the mystical experiences of Chang Yi-Jui, born in Zhongliao, Nantou, Taiwan, in 1944, and later known as Grand Master Hun Yuan. Before falling seriously ill in 1982, Chang, who operated a land survey company in Taiwan, was not particularly religious, although he had been interested for years in \"Yijing\" and \"fengshui\". He attributed his recovery to a miraculous intervention and vowed to dedicate his remaining life to spirituality.\n\nHe claimed to have received messages both from the Jade Deity, one of the representations of the supreme God, and from Guiguzi, a name that indicates both a group of writings compiled between the late Warring States period and the end of the Han Dynasty and their author, later deified in Chinese folk religion. Feeling he was now mystically united with Guiguzi, Chang opened a small worship hall in Taichung and started gathering followers. In 1984, he renamed the hall Shennong Temple and claimed to have received by divine revelation the name and title of Grand Master Hun Yuan. In 1987, he registered his movement as Weixinism, a name meaning \"Heart(or Mind)-Only\" teaching.\n\nIn 1989, the headquarters were moved to larger facilities in Nantou County, in a complex known as the Hsien Fo Temple. The movement’s growth led to the establishment of some forty branch temples in Taiwan, and overseas branches in China, Japan, Vietnam, Australia, the United States, Canada, and Spain. A variety of temples, including a large headquarters complex known as the \"City (or Temple) of the Eight Symbols\" on Yumen Mountain in Henan, have been built in mainland China since 2001. Another headquarters complex has been built in 2008 in Nantou City, Taiwan.\n\nWeixinism success is largely due to it having emerged as a leading provider of courses on \"Yijing\" and \"fengshui\", two systems that are immensely popular both in Taiwan and in China and among the international Chinese diaspora, and increasingly interest Westerners as well. Academic courses are offered through the Weixinist College, which has been accredited in 2013 by the Ministry of Education of Taiwan, while the I Ching University proposes \"lifelong learning\" seminars and coordinates courses offering \"Yijing\" teaching to children. Two million children have attended such courses between their launching in 1996 and 2016. Weixinism has also organized a number of academic conferences, featuring scholars from Taiwan, Mainland China, Korea, and the West.\n\nThe church's educational effort also includes the publication of several books by Grand Master Hun Yuan and the daily television programs \"View All Perspectives of I Ching – Feng Shui\" (1998), \"Everybody Comes to Learn I Ching\" (1998), and \"Feng Shui of My Home\" (digital, 2004), as well as the group’s own TV channel, Wei Xin TV. The Weixinist Church insists that \"Yijing\" should be taught not only as a philosophical system, but as a practical tool for divination, and that \"fengshui\" goes beyond the harmonious arrangement of buildings and furniture, and is in fact a complete system teaching how to live in harmony with nature.\n\nWeixinism's notion of \"fengshui\" also motivated the movement to establish in 1999, in the aftermath of the devastating 1999 Jiji earthquake, the I Ching and Feng Shui Interest Circle, which later evolved into the Feng Shui Interest Circle Service Team. The organization offers advise on how to build anti-seismic buildings according to the principles of \"fengshui\", but also helps needy families in both Taiwan and Mainland China. Other programs are aimed at improving the conditions in Taiwanese factories and other workplaces by applying the principles of \"fengshui\" there.\n\nWeixinism worships Guiguzi who, according to the tradition, operated the first school of diplomacy in the world. One of the main activities of the movement is the promotion of initiatives for the spiritual reconciliation of Taiwan and mainland China, which is seen as a pre-condition for the solution of political problems. The Taiwan Weixin Association for World Peace has been established in 2009. Its goals go beyond local problems in Taiwan and include the promotion of world peace through the healing of grievances and resentments deriving from centuries of war and conflict.\n\nWeixinist theology is rooted in a mythical history of Chinese culture and civilization, largely derived from the tradition of Chinese folk religion. This history starts with the \"Kunlun\". The Kunlun civilization is said to have flourished in remote times at the beginning of human history. Kunlun’s wisdom was inherited by Fuxi, a king in the third millennium BCE and reputedly the originator of the \"Yijing\", and transmitted by him through Jiutian Xuannü, the goddess of longevity incarnated on Earth, to the Three Ancestors of China: the \"Yandi\" (\"Flame God\"), the \"Huangdi\" (\"Yellow God\") and \"Chiyou\".\n\nThe latter, Chiyou, is regarded in Chinese folk religion as an enemy against whom the Flame and Yellow Emperors had to fight. One of the peculiarities of Weixinism is its rehabilitation of Chiyou. He is regarded as the ancestor of China's ethnic minorities and the healing of the wounds left by the conflicts and wars that accompanied Chinese history requires, according to the movement, that Chiyou be worshiped as equal in dignity to the Yan and Yellow Emperors.\n\nGuiguzi, according to Weixinist doctrines, was the legitimate heir of the Three Emperors. The awakened being Wang Chan Lao Chu incarnated in Guiguzi and is now mysteriously united with Grand Master Hun Yuan. The unbroken line connecting Kunlun to present-day Weixinism through the Three Ancestors and Guiguzi should guarantee that the movement embodies the most traditional Chinese \"orthodoxy\". The Three Ancestors are said to be at the origins also of the Japanese, Vietnamese, and Korean earliest royal families, thus incorporating a good part of the Far East within the same lineage.\nThe revelation of Guiguzi to Grand Master Hun Yuan and the latter's writings, also said to be inspired by Guiguzi, form an impressive corpus. It includes sixteen \"Apocalypse Scriptures\" and more than 18,000 volumes of speeches, writings, and comments of Grand Master Hun Yuan. Most of what he says is faithfully recorded by his followers and included in these collected works, known as \"Weixin Canon\", and continuously growing.\n\nTaiwanese scholars have interpreted Weixinism as an institutionalized form of traditional, non-institutional Chinese folk religion, \"the institutionalization of […] diffuse folk beliefs\". Ritual, including chanting, is central in the movement. It includes daily ritual services at the headquarters and in the branch temples, as well as larger and more elaborate ceremonies. The movement believes that the systematic chanting of mantras by its members has averted or alleviated a number of world catastrophes.\n\nStarting in 2004, the Weixinist Church has organized each year on January 1 in Taipei's Linkou Stadium the \"Unified Ancestor Worship Ceremony for Chinese in the 21st Century\", to bring peace to the souls of all ancestors, particularly those who perished in the many wars fought during Chinese history. These spectacular ceremonies draw crowds in excess of 30,000 each year. Presidents of the republic of Taiwan, cabinet ministers, and other political leaders have also participated. Weixinism believes that ancestor worship ceremonies have a crucial role in promoting world peace and ushering in a future millennial era without conflicts that would last for 5,000 years.\n\n\n\n"}
