{"id": "57670136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57670136", "title": "Aces of Action", "text": "Aces of Action\n\n\"Aces of Action\" was the informal nickname given to the movie teaming of Richard Arlen and Andy Devine. They made a number of low budget action films together for Universal.\n\nIn February 1939 Universal announced they would make seven \"outdoor pictures\" starring the duo over the next year, all produced by Ben Pivar. The films were well received and the series continued until Arlen left Universal for Pine-Thomas Productions.\n\nUniversal then tried Devine in a series of other \"buddy\" comedies, teaming him with Leo Carillo and Broderick Crawford.\n\n"}
{"id": "38623068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38623068", "title": "Adloyada", "text": "Adloyada\n\nAdloyada (Hebrew: עדלאידע or עדלידע, lit. \"Until one no longer knows\") is a humorous procession held in Israel on the Jewish holiday of Purim (or in Shushan Purim the second day of Purim, commanded to be celebrated in \"walled cities\", nowadays only in Jerusalem).\n\nThe Adloyada parade is a tradition dating back to the early days of Tel Aviv, in 1912. During the days of the Yishuv, the Adloyada was a mass event; it was resumed after the state of Israel was established.\n\nThe name is derived from the rabbinic saying in the Talmud that one should revel on Purim by drinking \"until one no longer knows\" (\"ad de-lo yada\", Aramaic: עַד דְּלָא יָדַע) the difference between \"blessed be Mordecai\" and \"cursed be Haman\".\n\nThe first Adloyada parade was initiated by Avraham Aldema, a teacher and co-founder of \"Hevre Trasek\", and was held in Tel Aviv during Purim in 1912. This parade was characterized by provocative costumes and pranks. According to several testimonies, the parade of 1912 was very colorful and beautiful. It consisted of giant puppets, a marching band and hundreds of children wearing their Purim costumes. Throughout the years, the parade became a permanent tradition of Purim. These events were held parallel to the famous celebrations that were organized by Baruch Agadati. Agadati's merriments had become extremely profitable, and so were criticized harshly by \"Hevre Trasek\" for being over commercialized.\n\nTel Aviv's Adloyadas were complemented with luxurious Purim balls, created by Baruch Agadati. Throughout the years, the parades were expanded and their path was moved from Herzl Street to Allenby Street and to Ibn Gabirol Street upon the establishment of the state of Israel.\n\nDuring the 1930s, every Adloyada had a specific theme, for example the tribes of Israel (in 1934), and the achievements of the Yishuv. During that time, Tel Aviv's Purim events attracted many tourists from all around Israel and from abroad.\n\nAs opposed to European states, where carnivals were a means to break loose and consisted of extreme licentiousness, aggressiveness and protest, the Tel Aviv event had different features. The main carnival, despite its new name \"Adloyada\", was characterized by a \"proper\" behavior. The municipality issued annual limitations on the Purim celebrations such as a prohibition to use explosives and dress up in costumes that may offend the Jewish religion or the Israeli nation. Despite the censorship and the sanctions, there were a few costumes and parades that didn't obey the rules and used the public festivity to express social protest, and thus made their mark on the city.\n\nDuring the 1928 carnival, with the theme \"10 years to the national home\", Hevre Trasek presented a 10-candle Menorah (as a symbol to Balfour's statement); instead of candles there was a rude gesture and the sign \"free Aliya, Jews in the top clerical work\". In one of the \"Menorah\" balls (Menorah was a club founded by veterans) in 1927, Avraham Atkind won the costume competition for his costume: \"balancing the clerk's salary in the Palestine government\". Atkind's hat had a scale and a photograph of the residence of the British commissioner in the magnificent Augusta Victoria building in Mount Scopus, as well as a poem, expressing the discontent of the gap between the British clerk's salary and the salaries of local Israelis from all ethnic groups.\n\nGdud Meginei Hasafa (Hebrew: גדוד מגיני השפה, Battalion for the Defence of the Language), an organization in Tel Aviv fighting to make Hebrew the common language in Mandatory Palestine, used Purim to present and to flood the streets with written propaganda. The Gdud documents were distributed during the Purim carnival. In addition, the Gdud held an annual costume competition with the theme of the superiority and importance of the Hebrew language. In the carnival of 1929, the Gdud presented the \"tower of Babylon\"; a tower on top of a horse-drawn cart with the slogan \"revival of the language, revival of the people\" and \"words can kill\".\n\nIn the main carnival of 1933, there was a puppet of Hitler riding a horse, as part of the parade. On its neck there was a sign saying; \"kill Jews\" and next to it there were 2 Jews bleeding to death. The German consul in Jerusalem sent a letter to Tel Aviv Mayor Meir Dizengoff in the matter and demanded an apology, but Dizengoff replied that Purim is a stage for free speech of public opinion. A year later, a huge puppet was presented with a swastika on its back. \n\nIn 1935, a giant puppet was built, named \"the profiteering monster\". On the day of festivities, a public trial was held for the puppet, during which Dizengoff, Menachem Ussishkin, Chaim Weizmann and Yehoshua Hankin ruled that the monster was guilty of various crimes including fraud, spending the people's wealth, and destruction of the achievements of the pioneers.\n\nIn one of the later carnivals, a group of people dressed as Ku Klux Klan members in order to protest racism in the United States.\n\nWhile Purim festivals became central public events in the 1920s and 1930s for expressing current social issues, the holiday events, overall and despite exceptions, were aimed to strengthen national messages and dominant ideologies. As opposed to its Biblical origin, where Purim constitutes \"an opposite world\" (the fool becomes the king and the king is presented as a fool around town), in Tel Aviv the holiday was institutionalized to conserve the social hierarchy and the parades were led by the city's mayor Meir Dizengoff, astride a horse.\n\nDuring the Second World War, the Adloyada tradition was extinguished.\n\nThe Adloyada tradition was renewed in the Purim of 1955. In the late sixties, the tradition disintegrated in Tel Aviv and the parade was transferred to Holon, although it lacked the unrefined feature of events in the small Tel Aviv.\n\nIn the 80’s an ArchiParhiTura (also spelled ArchiParchiTura; Hebrew: ארכיפרחיטורה) was introduced in Haifa. It was a Purim parade which had giant displays made by Technion architecture students (\"ArchiParhiTura\" is the Hebrew combination of the words architecture and \"archi parhi\"- which is the biblical expression of vagabond) and set on trucks. The parade went through Herzl Street in the Hadar Hacarmel area and was accompanied by an orchestra.\n\nIn the last few years, an attempt was made to return to tradition and resume the Adloyada as an important main event in different cities.\n\nIn the beginning, the parade was called \"carnival\". In 1923, a competition was held in order to find a new permanent name for the parade. Out of 300 submissions, author Isaac Dov Berkowitz's entry \"Adloyada\" was chosen. \n\nAdloyada means reaching a state of total intoxication. The expression comes from the Aramaic expression stated by Rabbah in the Babylonian Talmud, Tractate Megilla: \"It is the duty of a man to mellow himself ... on Purim until he cannot tell the difference between 'cursed be Haman' and 'blessed be Mordecai'.\" This means that people should drink on Purim until he reaches a state of not being able to distinguish between the evil Haman and the blessed Mordecai.\n\nAmong the other submitted suggestions were Hayim Nahman Bialik's entry \"Pura\", Tchernichovsky's entry \"Astoret\" and Avraham Shlonsky's entry \"Tzahalula\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44989931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44989931", "title": "Agave Landscape and Ancient Industrial Facilities of Tequila", "text": "Agave Landscape and Ancient Industrial Facilities of Tequila\n\nThe Agave Landscape and Ancient Industrial Facilities of Tequila is a cultural UNESCO World Heritage Site in Mexico. The 35,019-hectare site is part of an expansive landscape of blue agave, shaped by the culture of the plant used since the 16th century to produce the spirit known as tequila and for at least two millennia to make fermented drinks (such as pulque) and cloth. Within the landscape are working distilleries reflecting the growth in the consumption of tequila in the 19th and 20th centuries. Today, this agave culture is seen as part of Mexican national identity. The Tequila landscape has contributed to many works of art such as film, music, dance, and paintings. \n\nThe site includes the living, working agave fields and the urban settlements of Tequila, Magdalena, El Arenal and Amatitan. The area is also testimony to the Teuchitlan tradition (AD 200-900) which shaped the landscape through the creation of terraces for agriculture, housing, temples, ceremonial mounds and ball courts.\n"}
{"id": "2542823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2542823", "title": "Alterans", "text": "Alterans\n\nThe Alterans are a fictional race in the Stargate universe that have been portrayed as the first evolution of the Human form, having later ascended into a state of pure energy. In the timeframe of the television shows, the Alterans are politically divided into two groups; one known primarily as the Ori, and the other known as the Ancients (Stargate SG-1), the Ancestors (Atlantis), and the Lanteans (Atlantis). The Alterans are one of the oldest sentient races known in the Stargate universe, and are also considered to be the most technically advanced race there is.\n\n"}
{"id": "45594346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45594346", "title": "Ateni Theotokos Church inscription", "text": "Ateni Theotokos Church inscription\n\nThe Ateni Theotokos Church inscription () is the Georgian language inscription written in the Georgian \"Asomtavruli\" script on the Ateni \"Theotokos\" Church, a basilica located in the village of Didi Ateni, Gori Municipality, Shida Kartli, Georgia. The inscriptions are dated 982–989 AD. The inscription mentions Rati I and Liparit II, Dukes of Kldekari.\n\n"}
{"id": "39536848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39536848", "title": "Baptism of Christ (Cima da Conegliano)", "text": "Baptism of Christ (Cima da Conegliano)\n\nBaptism of Christ is a painting by Italian Renaissance painter Cima da Conegliano, dating from 1492. It is housed in the church of San Giovanni in Bragora in Venice.\n\nThe painting portrays Christ at the center of the scene, standing with joined hands. His attitude is that of humble submission to baptism, which is being given him by Saint John the Baptist, who appears on the right.\n\nAt the left are three angels with Christ's garments, in red and blue colors, which he will use after the baptism. The scene is completed by an angelic choir in the sky, and a generic oriental city on a spur in the left, behind the angels, while another one is visible in the far background.\n\n"}
{"id": "4455124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4455124", "title": "Bar stool", "text": "Bar stool\n\nBar stools are a type of tall chair, often with a foot rest to support the feet. The height and narrowness of bar stools makes them suitable for use at bars and high tables in pubs or bars. \n\nThere are many different types, construction materials and models. Bar stools are often made of wood or metal. There are bar stools with and without armrests, backs, and padding or upholstery on the seat surface. Bar stools can range from basic wooden designs to more complex ones with adjustable height. Extra tall and extra short are common features, as well as indoor bar stools and outdoor bar stools. Some bar stools have backs, while most do not. In commercial settings, swivel and floor mounted bar stools are common. Floor mounting renders the stool immovable, so it cannot be stolen or used as a weapon in a bar fight. Floor-mounted stools generally are mounted on a column, but stools with legs can also be secured to the floor using metal brackets. \n\nThe normal seat height for a bar stool is 30\" (76 cm) with a 26\" (66 cm) stool being used against kitchen counters. Extra tall 36\" (91 cm) stools are increasingly used in contemporary styles with high pub tables to create a visual effect in modern interiors. Counter height bar stools have a seat height of 24\" (61cm). By comparison a conventional dining chair seat height is 18\" (46 cm).\nSome bar stools use polyurethane foam as padding for comfort . Bar stools can be made from rattan or bamboo and these stools can be used to create a tiki bar effect. The retro styling of the 1950 and 1960s is popular in some bars and restaurants, which use chrome and vinyl stools combined with matching benches or diner chairs. Stacking stools are often favored for their space-saving qualities. Some establishments use matching bar stools and chairs. \n\nAluminum is often used outdoors. Stacking aluminum stools and patio chairs are used by commercial premises. Indoors, wood and upholstery are popular in traditional settings. Bar stools are used in pool or billiard halls and the style of chair customized for such use is often called a \"spectator chair\". Bar stools are used in Ireland during weekends by followers of the English Premier League, a practice which led to the creation of the pejorative term \"barstoolers\" by supporters of the League of Ireland. Bar stools are a growth area in the consumer market and online purchasing is on the increase . They are becoming a staple of a modern kitchen, and expanding their uses with consumers using DIY to create their own furniture pieces with bar stools. Using bar stools as tables, desks, and even plant holders is growing in popularity. Bar stools can be made to order and customers can specify a wide range of fabrics and finishes as well as specifying other options such as height and custom foot rests. Both wooden and metal bar stools, including stainless and chrome styles and adjustable height features are popular.\n"}
{"id": "46383694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46383694", "title": "Bollenhut", "text": "Bollenhut\n\nA Bollenhut is a formal headdress worn since 1750 by Protestant women as part of their folk costume or \"Tracht\" in the three neighbouring Black Forest villages of Gutach, Kirnbach and Hornberg-Reichenbach. With its woollen pompoms, the picturesque-looking red \"Bollenhut\" has become a symbol of the Black Forest as a whole, despite its very local origins. The red pom-poms and white brim of the \"Bollenhut\" also is said to have inspired the top layer of the Black Forest Cake.\n\nThe broad-brimmed, whitewashed straw hat bears 14 prominent, woollen, pompoms arranged in the shape of a cross. Only eleven pompoms are visible, however, because three are covered by those on top. Unmarried women wear red pompoms, married women wear black, old women and widows wear only the mob cap. The \"Bollenhut\" can weigh up to two kilogrammes and is manufactured by female milliners. The red \"Bollenhut\" may first be worn by girls at their confirmation.\n\nA silk mob cap is worn underneath the \"Bollenhut\", tied under the chin. Young girls before confirmation (Gutach and several neighbouring parishes were part of Württemberg until 1804 and were Protestant, unlike the majority of the Black Forest) and old women only wore the mob cap.\n\nToday the \"Bollenhut\" and associated \"Tracht\" are still worn on holidays and for traditional events. The \"Bollenhut\" and local costumes may be seen all year round e.g. in the Black Forest Costume Museum in Haslach im Kinzigtal.\n\nIn the late 18th century, apart from several mob caps, the \"Schühut\" and \"Gupfhut\", which were customary in the County of Hauenstein, were associated with the folk costume of the Black Forest. These types of hats which were known Europe-wide gradually fell out of use by the middle of the 19th century. In 1841 following a study trip through the Black Forest, Théodore Valerio published, through the Fréres Gihaut in Paris, a lithograph of a couple from Hornberg wearing their local costume, which showed an early version of the \"Bollenhut\" for the first time in France. After Gutach was connected to the Baden Black Forest Railway in 1873, artists like Wilhelm Hasemann, Curt Liebich and Fritz Reiss settled there, forming the \"Gutach artists' colony\". They portrayed the Gutach costume as an artistic subject, their works were widely distributed and shaped the image of the Black Forest. Like local author, Heinrich Hansjakob, they were part of a movement of Baden folk costume. At the turn of the 20th century, particularly Hasemann's painting, \"After Going To Church\" which showed \"Bollenhut\" wearers, was widely publicized in illustrated magazines and picture postcards.\n\nThe fame of the \"Bollenhut\" as (wrongly) generally typical of the Black Forest rose as a result of films of local life (\"Heimatfilme\") in the 1950s and 1960s, particularly the 1950 film, \"The Black Forest Girl\" (\"Schwarzwaldmädel\"), with Sonja Ziemann. This first German colour film of the post war period is one of the most successful German films of all time with an estimated 15 million viewers.\n\n"}
{"id": "82058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82058", "title": "Brigham Young University", "text": "Brigham Young University\n\nBrigham Young University (BYU, sometimes referred to colloquially as The Y) is a private, non-profit research university in Provo, Utah, United States completely owned by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) and run under the auspices of its Church Educational System. Approximately 99 percent of the students are members of the LDS Church and one-third of its U.S. students are from Utah. The university's primary focus is on undergraduate education, but it also has 68 master's and 25 doctoral degree programs.\n\nStudents attending BYU agree to follow an honor code, which mandates behavior in line with LDS teachings such as academic honesty, adherence to dress and grooming standards, and abstinence from extramarital sex and from the consumption of drugs and alcohol. The university curriculum includes religious education, with required courses in, the Bible (KJV), LDS scripture, doctrine, and history, and the university sponsors weekly devotional assemblies with most speakers addressing religious topics. Many students (88 percent of men, 39 percent of women) either delay enrollment or take a hiatus from their studies to serve as LDS missionaries. An education at BYU is also less expensive than at similar private universities, since \"a significant portion\" of the cost of operating the university is subsidized by the church's tithing funds.\n\nBYU offers a variety of academic programs, including liberal arts, engineering, agriculture, management, physical and mathematical sciences, nursing, and law. The university is broadly organized into 11 colleges or schools at its main Provo campus, with certain colleges and divisions defining their own admission standards. The university also administers two satellite campuses, one in Jerusalem and one in Salt Lake City, while its parent organization, the Church Educational System (CES), sponsors sister schools in Hawaii and Idaho.\n\nBYU's athletic teams compete in Division I of the NCAA and are collectively known as the BYU Cougars. Their college football team is an NCAA Division I Independent, while their other sports teams compete in either the West Coast Conference or Mountain Pacific Sports Federation. BYU's sports teams have won a total of fourteen national championships.\n\nBrigham Young University's origin can be traced back to 1862 when a man named Warren Dusenberry started a Provo school in Cluff Hall, a prominent adobe building in the northeast corner of 200 East and 200 North.. After some financial difficulties the school was recreated in the Kinsey and Lewis buildings on Center street in Provo, and after gaining some recognition for its quality, was adopted to become the Timpanogos branch of the University of Deseret. When financial difficulty forced another closure, on October 16, 1875, Brigham Young, then president of the LDS Church, deeded the property to trustees to create \"Brigham Young Academy\" after earlier hinting a school would be built in Draper, Utah, in 1867. Hence, October 16, 1875, is commonly held as BYU's founding date. . Brigham Young had been envisioning for several years the concept of a church university . Said Young about his vision: \"I hope to see an Academy established in Provo... at which the children of the Latter-day Saints can receive a good education unmixed with the pernicious atheistic influences that are found in so many of the higher schools of the country.\" \n\nBrigham Young Academy classes commenced on January 3, 1876. Warren Dusenberry served as interim principal for several months until April 1876 when Brigham Young's choice for principal arrived—a German immigrant named Karl Maeser. Under Maeser's direction, the school educated many luminaries including future U.S. Supreme Court Justice George Sutherland and future U.S. Senator Reed Smoot. The school, however, did not become a university until the end of Benjamin Cluff's term at the helm of the institution. At that time, the school was also still privately supported by members of the community and was not absorbed and sponsored officially by the LDS Church until July 18, 1896. A series of odd managerial decisions by Cluff led to his demotion; however, in his last official act, he proposed to the Board the Academy be named \"Brigham Young University\". The suggestion received a large amount of opposition, with many members of the Board saying the school wasn't large enough to be a university, but the decision ultimately passed. One opponent to the decision, Anthon H. Lund, later said, \"I hope their head will grow big enough for their hat.\"\n\nIn 1903 Brigham Young Academy was dissolved, and was replaced by two institutions: Brigham Young High School, and Brigham Young University. The BY High School class of 1907 was ultimately responsible for the famous giant \"Y\" that is to this day embedded on a mountain near campus. The Board elected George H. Brimhall as the new President of BYU. He had not received a high school education until he was forty. Nevertheless, he was an excellent orator and organizer. Under his tenure in 1904 the new Brigham Young University bought of land from Provo called \"Temple Hill\". After some controversy among locals over BYU's purchase of this property, construction began in 1909 on the first building on the current campus, the Karl G. Maeser Memorial. Brimhall also presided over the University during a brief crisis involving the theory of evolution. The religious nature of the school seemed at the time to collide with this scientific theory. Joseph F. Smith, LDS Church president, settled the question for a time by asking that evolution not be taught at the school. A few have described the school at this time as nothing more than a \"religious seminary\". However, many of its graduates at this time would go on to great success and become well renowned in their fields.\n\nFranklin S. Harris was appointed the university's president in 1921. He was the first BYU president to have a doctoral degree. Harris made several important changes to the school, reorganizing it into a true university, whereas before, its organization had remnants of the Academy days. At the beginning of his tenure, the school was not officially recognized as a university by any accreditation organization. By the end of his term, the school was accredited under all major accrediting organizations at the time. He was replaced by Howard S. McDonald, who received his doctorate from the University of California. When he first received the position, the Second World War had just ended, and thousands of students were flooding into BYU. By the end of his stay, the school had grown nearly five times to 5,440 students. The university did not have the facilities to handle such a large influx, so he bought part of an Air Force Base in Ogden, Utah and rebuilt it to house some of the students. The next president, Ernest L. Wilkinson, also oversaw a period of intense growth, as the school adopted an accelerated building program. Wilkinson was responsible for the building of over eighty structures on the campus, many of which still stand. During his tenure, the student body increased six-fold, making BYU the largest private school at the time. The quality of the students also increased, leading to higher educational standards at the school. Finally, Wilkinson reorganized the LDS Church units on campus, with ten stakes and over 100 wards being added during his administration.\n\nDallin H. Oaks replaced Wilkinson as president in 1971. Oaks continued the expansion of his predecessor, adding a law school and proposing plans for a new School of Management. During his administration, a new library was also added, doubling the library space on campus. Jeffrey R. Holland followed as president in 1980, encouraging a combination of educational excellence and religious faith at the university. He believed one of the school's greatest strengths was its religious nature and this should be taken advantage of rather than hidden. During his administration, the university added a campus in Jerusalem, now called the BYU Jerusalem Center. In 1989, Holland was replaced by Rex E. Lee. Lee was responsible for the Benson Science Building and the Museum of Art on campus. A cancer victim, Lee is memorialized annually at BYU during a cancer fundraiser called the Rex Lee Run. Shortly before his death, Lee was replaced in 1995 by Merrill J. Bateman.\n\nBateman was responsible for the building of 36 new buildings for the university both on and off campus, including the expansion of the Harold B. Lee Library. He was also one of several key college leaders who brought about the creation of the Mountain West Conference, which BYU's athletics program joined — BYU previously participated in the Western Athletic Conference. A BYU satellite TV network also opened in 2000 under his leadership. Bateman was also president during the September 11th attacks in 2001. The planes crashed on a Tuesday, hours before the weekly devotional normally held at BYU. Previous plans for the devotional were altered, as Bateman led the student body in a prayer for peace. Bateman was followed by Cecil O. Samuelson in 2003. Samuelson was succeeded by Kevin J Worthen in 2014.\n\nThe main campus in Provo, Utah, United States sits on approximately nestled at the base of the Wasatch Mountains and includes 295 buildings. The buildings feature a wide variety of architectural styles, each building being built in the style of its time. The grass, trees, and flower beds on BYU's campus are impeccably maintained. Furthermore, views of the Wasatch Mountains, (including Mount Timpanogos) can be seen from the campus. BYU's Harold B. Lee Library (also known as \"HBLL\"), which \"The Princeton Review\" ranked as the No. 1 \"Great College Library\" in 2004, has approximately 8.5 million items in its collections, contains of shelving, and can seat 4,600 people. The Spencer W. Kimball Tower, shortened to SWKT and pronounced Swicket by many students, is home to several of the university's departments and programs and is the tallest building in Provo, Utah. Furthermore, BYU's Marriott Center, used as a basketball arena, can seat over 19,000 and is one of the largest on-campus arenas in the nation. Absent on the campus of this church owned university is a campus chapel. Notwithstanding, each Sunday LDS Church services for students are conducted on campus, but due to the large number of students attending these services, nearly all of the buildings and possible meeting spaces on campus are utilized (in addition, many students attend services off campus in LDS chapels in the surrounding communities).\n\nThe campus is home to several museums containing exhibits from many different fields of study. BYU's Museum of Art, for example, is one of the largest and most attended art museums in the Mountain West. This museum aids in academic pursuits of students at BYU via research and study of the artworks in its collection. The museum is also open to the general public and provides educational programming. The Museum of Peoples and Cultures is a museum of archaeology and ethnology. It focuses on native cultures and artifacts of the Great Basin, American Southwest, Mesoamerica, Peru, and Polynesia. Home to more than 40,000 artifacts and 50,000 photographs, it documents BYU's archaeological research. The BYU Museum of Paleontology was built in 1976 to display the many fossils found by BYU's James A. Jensen. It holds many vertebrate fossils from the Jurassic and Cretaceous periods, and is one of the top five vertebrate fossil collections in the world from the Jurassic. The museum receives about 25,000 visitors every year. The Monte L. Bean Life Science Museum was formed in 1978. It features several forms of plant and animal life on display and available for research by students and scholars.\n\nThe campus also houses several performing arts facilities. The de Jong Concert Hall seats 1282 people and is named for Gerrit de Jong Jr. The Pardoe Theatre is named for T. Earl and Kathryn Pardoe. Students use its stage in a variety of theatre experiments, as well as for Pardoe Series performances. It seats 500 people, and has quite a large stage with a proscenium opening of 19 by . The Margetts Theatre was named for Philip N. Margetts, a prominent Utah theatre figure. A smaller, black box theater, it allows a variety of seating and staging formats. It seats 125, and measures 30 by . The Nelke Theatre, named for one of BYU's first drama teachers, is used largely for instruction in experimental theater. It seats 280.\n\nSingle students who are freshmen have four options for on-campus housing: Heritage Halls, Helaman Halls, Wyview Park, and the Foreign Language Student Residence (FLSR). On-campus married students live in Wymount Terrace or Wyview Park.\n\nHeritage Halls was a twenty-four-building housing complex on campus which offers apartment-style living. It has been replaced by a newer housing complex. The halls house both male and female students, divided by gender into separate buildings. Each building has ten to fourteen units capable of housing six people each.\n\nHelaman Halls is a slightly newer complex which underwent a 12-year renovation between 1991 and 2004. Helaman Halls is a nine-building (ninth opened in the summer of 2010), dormitory-style living area. Residents share a room (larger than Heritage Halls) with one other resident, but do not have their own kitchen and use shared bathrooms. Residents are required to have a meal plan, and eat at the newly remodeled Commons at the Cannon Center.\n\nWyview Park was originally built for families in 1996, but this changed in 2006 when the complex began housing single students in order to counteract loss of singles' housing in other areas. Wyview Park has 30 buildings that offer apartment-style living for students, along with the option for shared or single rooms.\n\nThe Foreign Language Student Residence complex has twenty-five apartments where students speak exclusively in a selected foreign language. The immersion experience is available in nine languages, and students are accompanied by a native resident throughout the year to enhance the experience.\n\nMarried students can house in Wymount Terrace, which contains a total of 462 apartments in 24 buildings.\n\nBranches of the BYU Creamery provide basic food and general grocery products for students living in Heritage Halls, Helaman, Wymount, Wyview, and the FLSR. Helaman Halls is also served by a central cafeteria called the Cannon Center. The creamery, begun in 1949, has become a BYU tradition and is also frequented by visitors to the university and members of the community. It was the first on-campus full-service grocery store in the country.\n\nBYU has designated energy conservation, products and materials, recycling, site planning and building design, student involvement, transportation, water conservation, and zero waste events as top priority categories in which to further its efforts to be an environmentally sustainable campus. The university has stated \"we have a responsibility to be wise stewards of the earth and its resources.\" BYU is working to increase the energy efficiency of its buildings by installing various speed drives on all pumps and fans, replacing incandescent lighting with fluorescent lighting, retrofitting campus buildings with low-E reflective glass, and upgraded roof insulation to prevent heat loss. The student groups BYU Recycles, Eco-Response, and BYU Earth educate students, faculty, staff, and administrators about how the campus can decrease its environmental impact. BYU Recycles spearheaded the recent campaign to begin recycling plastics, which the university did after a year of student campaigning.\n\nBrigham Young University is a part of the LDS Church Educational System. It is organized under a Board of Trustees, with the President of the Church (currently Russell M. Nelson) as chairman. This board consists of the same people as the Church Board of Education, a pattern that has been in place since 1939. Prior to 1939, BYU had a separate board of trustees that was subordinate to the Church Board of Education. The President of BYU, currently Kevin J Worthen, reports to the Board, through the Commissioner of Education.\n\nThe university operates under 11 colleges or schools, which collectively offer 194 bachelor's degree programs, 68 master's degree programs, 25 PhD programs, and a Juris Doctor program. BYU also manages some courses and majors through the David M. Kennedy Center for International Studies and \"miscellaneous\" college departments, including Undergraduate Education, Graduate Studies, Independent Study, Continuing Education, and the Honors Program. BYU's Winter semester ends earlier than most universities in April since there is no Spring break, thus allowing students to pursue internships and other summer activities earlier. A typical academic year is broken up into two semesters: Fall (September–December) and Winter (January–April), as well as two shorter terms during the summer months: Spring (May–June) and Summer (July–August).\n\nBYU accepted 53.4 percent of the 13,731 people who applied for admission in the spring and summer terms, and fall semester of 2017. The average GPA for these admitted students was 3.86 with an average ACT of 29.5 and SAT of 1300. \"U.S. News and World Report\" describes BYU's selectivity as being \"more selective\" and compares it with such universities as the University of Texas at Austin and The Ohio State University. In addition, BYU is ranked 26th in colleges with the most freshman Merit Scholars, with 88 in 2006. BYU has one of the highest percentage of accepted applicants that go on to enroll (78 percent in 2010).\n\nStudents from every state in the U.S. and from many foreign countries attend BYU. (In the 2005–06 academic year, there were 2,396 foreign students, or eight (8) percent of enrollment.) Slightly more than 98 percent of these students are active members of the LDS Church. In 2006, 12.6 percent of the student body reported themselves as ethnic minorities, mostly Asians, Pacific islanders and Hispanics.\n\nUndergraduate students may qualify for graduation honors. \"University Honors\" is the highest distinction BYU awards its graduates. Administered by the Honors Program, the distinction requires students to complete an honors curriculum requirement, a Great Questions requirement, an Experiential Learning requirement, an honors thesis requirement, and a graduation portfolio that summarizes the student's honors experiences.\n\nThe university also awards Latin scholastic distinctions separately from the Honors Program: \"summa cum laude\" (top 1 percent), \"magna cum laude\" (top 5 percent), and \"cum laude\" (top 10 percent). The university additionally recognizes Phi Kappa Phi graduation honors.\n\nFor 2017, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked BYU as 61st among national universities in the United States. A 2013 \"Quarterly Journal of Economics\" study of where the nation's top high school students choose to enroll ranked BYU No. 21 in its peer-reviewed study. \"The Princeton Review\" has ranked BYU the best value for college in 2007, and its library is consistently ranked in the nation's top ten — No. 1 in 2004 and No. 4 in 2007. BYU is also ranked No. 19 in the \"U.S. News and World Report's\" \"Great Schools, Great Prices\" lineup, and No. 12 in lowest student-incurred debt. Due in part to the school's emphasis on undergraduate research, in rankings for 2008-2009, BYU was ranked No. 10 nationally for the number of students who go on to earn PhDs, No. 1 nationally for students who go on to dental school, No. 6 nationally for students who go on to law school, and No. 10 nationally for students who go on to medical school. BYU is designated as a research university with high research activity by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. \"Forbes\" magazine ranked it as the No. 1 \"Top University to Work For in 2014\" and as the best college in Utah.\n\nIn 2009 the university's Marriott School of Management received a No. 5 ranking by \"BusinessWeek\" for its undergraduate programs, and its MBA program was ranked by several sources: No. 22 ranking by \"BusinessWeek\", No. 16 by \"Forbes\", and No. 29 by \"U.S. News & World Report\". Among regional schools the MBA program was ranked No. 1 by \"The Wall Street Journal's\" most recent ranking (2007), and it was ranked No. 92 among business schools worldwide in 2009 by \"Financial Times\". For 2009, the university's School of Accountancy, which is housed within the Marriott School, received a No. 2 and two No. 3 rankings for its undergraduate program—one by \"Public Accounting Report\" and the other by \"U.S. News & World Report\". The same two reporting agencies also ranked the school's MAcc program No. 3 and No. 8 in the nation, respectively. In 2010 an article in the Wall Street Journal listing institutions whose graduates were the top-rated by recruiters ranked BYU No. 11. Using 2010 fiscal year data, the Association of University Technology Managers ranked BYU No. 3 in an evaluation of universities creating the most startup companies through campus research.\n\nThe BYU J. Reuben Clark Law School has a No. 41 national ranking according to the U.S. News & World Report\n\nScientists associated with BYU have created some notable inventions. Philo T. Farnsworth, inventor of the electronic television, received his education at BYU, and later returned to do fusion research, receiving an honorary degree from the university. Alumnus Harvey Fletcher, inventor of stereophonic sound, went on to carry out the now famous oil-drop experiment with Robert Millikan, and was later Founding Dean of the BYU College of Engineering. H. Tracy Hall, inventor of the man-made diamond, left General Electric in 1955 and became a full professor of chemistry and Director of Research at BYU. While there, he invented a new type of diamond press, the tetrahedral press. In student achievements, BYU Ad Lab teams won both the 2007 and 2008 L'Oréal National Brandstorm Competition, and students developed the Magnetic Lasso algorithm found in Adobe Photoshop. In prestigious scholarships, BYU has produced 10 Rhodes Scholars, four Gates Scholars in the last six years, and in the last decade has claimed 41 Fulbright scholars and 3 Jack Kent Cooke scholars.\n\nTo provide students with opportunities for both spiritual and intellectual insight, BYU has hosted weekly devotional and forum assemblies since the school's early days. Devotionals are most common and address religious topics, often with academic perspective or insight. Devotional speakers are typically drawn from the BYU faculty and administration or LDS Church leadership, including church presidents George Albert Smith, Spencer W. Kimball, and Russell M. Nelson.\n\nSeveral times each year the devotional is replaced by a forum, which typically addresses a more secular topic and may include a speaker from outside the BYU or LDS community. In recent years, forum speakers have included notable politicians (e.g. Joseph Lieberman, Mitt Romney), scientists (Neil deGrasse Tyson, DJ Patil), historians (David McCullough, Richard Beeman), religious leaders (Archbishop Charles Chaput, Albert Mohler), judicial figures (John Roberts, Thomas Griffith) and other thought leaders (Liz Wiseman, Arthur Brooks).\n\nAlthough attendance is not required, several thousand students attend the weekly assemblies, which are also broadcast on BYUtv and archived in text, audio, and video formats on the BYU Speeches website.\n\nOver three quarters of the student body has some proficiency in a second language (numbering 107 languages in total). This is partially due to the fact that 45 percent of the student body at BYU has been missionaries for LDS Church, and many of them learned a foreign language as part of their mission assignment. During any given semester, about one-third of the student body is enrolled in foreign language classes, a rate nearly four times the national average. BYU offers courses in over 60 different languages, many with advanced courses that are seldom offered elsewhere. Several of its language programs are the largest of their kind in the nation, the Russian program being one example. The university was selected by the United States Department of Education as the location of the national Middle East Language Resource Center, making the school a hub for experts on that region. It was also selected as a Center for International Business Education Research, a function of which is to train business employees in international languages and relations.\n\nBeyond this, BYU also runs a very large study abroad program, with satellite centers in London, Jerusalem, and Paris, as well as more than 20 other sites. Nearly 2,000 students take advantage of these programs yearly. In 2001 the Institute of International Education ranked BYU as the number one university in the U.S. to offer students study abroad opportunities. The BYU Jerusalem Center, which was closed in 2000 due to student security concerns related to the Second Intifada and, more recently, the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict, was reopened to students in the Winter 2007 semester.\n\nA few special additions enhance the language-learning experience. For example, BYU's International Cinema, featuring films in several languages, is the largest and longest-running university-run foreign film program in the country. As already noted, BYU also offers an intensive foreign language living experience, the Foreign Language Student Residence. This is an on-campus apartment complex where students commit to speak only their chosen foreign language while in their apartments. Each apartment has at least one native speaker to ensure correct language usage.\n\nIn 1992 the university drafted a new Statement on Academic Freedom, specifying limitations may be placed upon \"expression with students or in public that: (1) contradicts or opposes, rather than analyzes or discusses, fundamental Church doctrine or policy; (2) deliberately attacks or derides the Church or its general leaders; or (3) violates the Honor Code because the expression is dishonest, illegal, unchaste, profane, or unduly disrespectful of others.\" These restrictions have caused some controversy as several professors have been disciplined according to the then-new rule. The American Association of University Professors has claimed that \"infringements on academic freedom are distressingly common and that the climate for academic freedom is distressingly poor.\"\nThe newer rules have not affected BYU's accreditation, as the university's chosen accrediting body allows \"religious colleges and universities to place limitations on academic freedom so long as they publish those limitations candidly\", according to associate academic vice president Jim Gordon. The AAUP's concern was not with restrictions on the faculty member's religious expression but with a failure, as alleged by the faculty member and AAUP, that the restrictions had not been adequately specified in advance by BYU: \"The AAUP requires that any doctrinal limitations on academic freedom be laid out clearly in writing. We [AAUP] concluded that BYU had failed to do so adequately.\"\n\nThe BYU Ballroom Dance Company is known as one of the best formation ballroom dance teams in the world, having won the U.S. National Formation Dance Championship every year since 1982. BYU's ballroom dance team has won first place in Latin or Standard (or both) many times when they have competed at the Blackpool Dance Festival, and they were the first U.S. team to win the formation championships at the famed British Championships in Blackpool, England in 1972. The NDCA National DanceSport championships have been held at BYU for several years, and BYU holds dozens of ballroom dance classes each semester and is consequently the largest collegiate ballroom dance program in the world. In addition, BYU has a number of other notable dance teams and programs. These teams include the Theatre Ballet, Contemporary Dance Theatre, Living Legends, and International Folk Dance Ensemble. The Living Legends perform Latin, Native American, and Polynesian dancing. BYU boasts one of the largest dance departments in the nation. Many students from all different majors across campus participate in various dance classes each semester.\n\nThe Young Ambassadors are a song and dance performing group with a 50-year history at BYU. Prior to 1970 the group was known as Curtain Time USA. In the 1960s their world tour stops included Lebanon, Jordan, and Iraq. The group first performed as the Young Ambassadors at Expo '70 in Japan, and has since performed in over 56 nations. The royalty of Thailand and Jordan, along with persons of high office in countries such as India, have been among their audiences.\nThe BYU Opera Workshop gave the first North American performance of the Ralph Vaughan Williams opera The Pilgrim's Progress in April 1968, directed by Max C. Golightly.\n\nBYU's Wind Symphony and Chamber Orchestra have toured many countries including Denmark, Hong Kong, Russia, the British Isles, and Central Europe. The Symphonic Band is also an ensemble dedicated to developing the musician, but with a less strenuous focus on performance. Additionally, BYU has a marching band program called the Cougar Marching Band.\n\nBYU has a choral program with over 500 members. The four BYU auditioned choirs include the 40-member BYU Singers, the 90-member BYU Concert Choir, the 200-member BYU Men's Chorus (the largest male collegiate choir in the U.S.), and the 190-member BYU Women's Chorus. Both the BYU Men's Chorus and BYU Singers have toured across the United States and around the globe. Each of the four groups has recorded several times under BYU's label \"Tantara Records\".\n\nBYU's a cappella groups, Vocal Point and Noteworthy are among the top groups in the country, both of them having been crowned International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella winners, in 2006 and 2007, respectively. Both groups release multiple music videos a year and operate under BYU's Performing Arts Management.\n\nBYU also has a Balinese gamelan ensemble, Gamelan Bintang Wahyu.\n\nBYU has 21 NCAA varsity teams. Nineteen of these teams played mainly in the Mountain West Conference from its inception in 1999 until the school left that conference in 2011. Prior to that time BYU teams competed in the Western Athletic Conference. All teams are named the \"Cougars\", and Cosmo the Cougar has been the school's mascot since 1953. The school's fight song is the Cougar Fight Song. Because many of its players serve on full-time missions for two years (men when they're 18, women when 19), BYU athletes are often older on average than other schools' players. The NCAA allows students to serve missions for two years without subtracting that time from their eligibility period. This has caused minor controversy, but is largely recognized as not lending the school any significant advantage, since players receive no athletic and little physical training during their missions. BYU has also received attention from sports networks for refusal to play games on Sunday, as well as expelling players due to honor code violations. Beginning in the 2011 season, BYU football competes in college football as an independent. In addition, most other sports now compete in the West Coast Conference. Teams in swimming and diving and indoor track and field for both men and women joined the men's volleyball program in the Mountain Pacific Sports Federation. For outdoor track and field, the Cougars became an Independent. Softball returned to the Western Athletic Conference, but spent only one season in the WAC; the team moved to the Pacific Coast Softball Conference after the 2012 season. The softball program joined the bulk of BYU's sports in the WCC after the July 2013 return of Pacific to the WCC allowed that conference to add softball as an official sport.\n\n, more recently BYU has had several standout basketball players. This included Jimmer Fredette, who in 2011 was named the NCAA basketball player of the year and led the nation in scoring; Tyler Haws, as part of the 2014-15 season, was a finalist for the Jerry West Award and scored the most points in the nation; and Kyle Collinsworth, who set the NCAA single-season record for triple-doubles with six (in both the 2014–15 and 2015–16 seasons) and holds the NCAA career triple-double record for either men or women of 12 (although the University of Oregon's Sabrina Ionescu is in position to surpass this record in 2018–19, having amassed 10 in her first two seasons).\n\nBYU sponsors extramural competition in six sports under Student Life. These sports are racquetball, men's lacrosse, women's lacrosse, men's rugby, women's rugby, and men's soccer. Men's hockey is not an \"extramural sport\" but is given \"recognized sport\" status.\n\nBYU's stated mission \"is to assist individuals in their quest for perfection and eternal life.\" BYU is thus considered by its leaders to be at heart a religious institution, wherein, ideally, religious and secular education are interwoven in a way that encourages the highest standards in both areas. This weaving of the secular and the religious aspects of a religious university goes back as far as Brigham Young himself, who told Karl G. Maeser when the Church purchased the school: \"I want you to remember that you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the\nmultiplication tables without the Spirit of God.\"\nBYU has been considered by some Latter-day Saints, as well as some university and church leaders, to be \"The Lord's university.\" This phrase is used in reference to the school's mission as an ambassador to the world for the LDS Church, and thus for Jesus Christ. In the past, some students and faculty have expressed dissatisfaction with this nickname, stating that it gives students the idea that university authorities are always divinely inspired and never to be contradicted. Leaders of the school, however, acknowledge that the nickname represents more a goal that the university strives for and not its current state of being. Leaders encourage students and faculty to help fulfill the goal by following the teachings of their religion, adhering to the school's honor code, and serving others with the knowledge they gain while attending.\n\nBYU mandates that its students who are members of the LDS Church be religiously active. Both LDS and Non-LDS students are required to provide an endorsement from an ecclesiastic leader with their application for admittance. Over 900 rooms on BYU campus are used for the purposes of LDS Church congregations. More than 150 congregations meet on BYU campus each Sunday. \"BYU's campus becomes one of the busiest and largest centers of worship in the world\" with about 24,000 persons attending church services on campus.\n\nSome 97 percent of male BYU graduates and 32 percent of female graduates took a hiatus from their undergraduate studies at one point to serve as LDS missionaries. In October 2012, the LDS Church announced at its general conference that young men could serve a mission after they turn 18 and have graduated from high school, rather than after age 19 under the old policy. Many young men would often attend a semester or two of higher education prior to beginning missionary service. This policy change will likely impact what has been the traditional incoming freshman class at BYU. Female students may now begin their missionary service anytime after turning 19, rather than age 21 under the previous policy. For young men, a completed full-time mission lasts two years, and for young women it lasts 18 months (older missionaries have varying lengths of missions).\n\nAll students and faculty, regardless of religion, are required to agree to adhere to an honor code. Early forms of the Church Educational System Honor Code are found as far back as the days of the Brigham Young Academy and early school President Karl G. Maeser. Maeser created the \"Domestic Organization\", a group of teachers who would visit students at their homes to ensure they were following the school's moral rules prohibiting obscenity, profanity, smoking, and alcohol consumption. The Honor Code was not created until about 1940, and was used mainly for cases of cheating and academic dishonesty.\n\nPresident Wilkinson expanded the Honor Code in 1957 to include other school standards. This led to what the Honor Code represents today: rules regarding chastity, dress, grooming, drugs, and alcohol. A signed commitment to live the honor code is part of the application process, and must be adhered by all students, faculty, and staff. Students and faculty found in violation of standards are warned or called to meet with representatives of the Honor Council. In certain cases, students and faculty can be expelled or lose tenure. Both LDS and non-LDS students are required to meet annually with a Church leader to receive an ecclesiastical endorsement for both acceptance and continuance.\n\nThe policy draws a distinction between attraction and behaviour, and it states that LGBTQ status or same-gender \"attraction\" (SSA) is not an Honor Code issue. In an August 2018 devotion speech to students BYU religion professor Eric D. Huntsman urged BYU students to listen to and understand \"what our LGBT brothers and sisters are feeling and experiencing.\" Huntsman said \"we must do better than we have done in the past so that all feel they have a spiritual home\" at BYU. Historically, BYU has regularly been ranked among the most LGBT-unfriendly schools in the United States, and its policies towards LGBTQ students have sparked criticism and protests. In the fall of 2016 BYU faced national criticism when many called its LGBT policies discriminatory while the university was being considered as an addition to the Big 12 Conference. In 2018, BYU hosted a on campus LGBTQ and same sex attraction (SSA) forum with the theme \"Come and Understand what it means to be LGBTQ and SSA at BYU.\" The forum was endorsed and supported by the BYU administration. In a 2015 on campus devotional, LDS Church leader Elder Ronald A. Rasband encouraged students to have respectful conversations about fairness for all, including those who identify themselves within the LGBTQ community, and encouraged students to share their experiences with him on his Facebook page. Historically, policies around and treatment of LGBT students have included being banned from enrolling due to their romantic attractions in the 60s, In the 90s, a poll showed a majority of BYU students supported including gay students at BYU but nearly 80% of BYU students reported they'd refuse to live with a gay roommate. There was a ban on coming out into the 2000s. The Honor Code deems homosexual behavior as inappropriate and a violation of the Honor Code to include not only sexual relations between members of the same sex but all forms of physical intimacy that give expression to homosexual feelings. The same policy likewise proscribes heterosexual sexual relations engaged in outside a traditional marriage relationship.\n\nCurrent policy assures that victims \"will not be disciplined by the university for any related honor code violation occurring at or near the time of the reported sexual misconduct unless a person's health or safety is at risk.\" In 2016 and 2017 the Honor Code, in light of identified potential conflicts with Title IX obligations, was extensively reviewed and updated. Criticism of past policy pointed to conflicts the policies and enforcement created for survivors of sexual assault. Beginning in 2014 and continuing through 2016, some students reported that, after being sexually assaulted or raped, they were told they would face discipline because of honor code violations for consensual sexual relationships in violation of the policy that came to light during the investigation of reported sexual assaults. Criticism has been leveled that this atmosphere may prevent other students from reporting sexual assault crimes to police, a situation that local law enforcement have publicly criticized. In response, the Victim Services Coordinator of the Provo Police Department called for an amnesty clause to be added to the Honor Code, which would not punish sexual assault survivors for past honor code violations discovered during the investigation. BYU launched a review of the practice, which concluded in October 2016. BYU announced several changes to how it would handle sexual assault reports, including adding an amnesty clause, and ensuring under most circumstances that information is not shared between Title IX Office and Honor Code Office without the victim's consent. In June 2017, the policy was further revised to affirm that \"BYU strongly encourages the reporting of all incidents of sexual misconduct so that support services can be offered to victims and sexual misconduct can be prevented and stopped.\"\n\nBYU's social and cultural atmosphere is unique. The high rate of enrollment at the university by members of the LDS Church (more than 98 percent) results in an amplification of LDS cultural norms; BYU was ranked by \"The Princeton Review\" in 2008 as 14th in the nation for having the happiest students and highest quality of life. However, the supposed quirkiness and sometimes \"too-nice\" culture is often caricatured, for example, in terms of marrying early and being very conservative.\n\nOne of the characteristics of BYU most often pointed out is its reputation for emphasizing a \"marriage culture\". Members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints highly value marriage and family, especially marriage within the faith. Approximately 51 percent of the graduates in BYU's class of 2005 were married. This is compared to a national marriage average among college graduates of 11 percent. BYU students on average marry at the age of 22, according to a 2005 study, while the national average age is 29 years for men and 27 years for women.\n\nBYU's honor code, which all BYU students must agree to follow as a condition of studying at BYU, prohibits the consumption of alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and recreational drugs. As mentioned earlier, The Princeton Review has rated BYU the \"#1 stone-cold sober school\" in the nation for several years running, an honor which the late LDS Church president Gordon B. Hinckley had commented on with pride. BYU's 2014 \"#1 stone-cold\" sober rating marked the 17th year in a row the school had earned that rating. BYU has used this and other honors awarded to the school to advertise itself to prospective students, showing that BYU is proud of the rating. According to the Uniform Crime Reports, incidents of crime in Provo are lower than the national average. Murder is rare, and robberies are about 1/10 the national average. \"Business Insider\" rated BYU as the #1 safest college campus in the nation.\n\nIn the mid-1950s, the director of BYU Food Services decided not to sell caffeine-containing products on the BYU campus. That changed in September 2017 when the director of BYU Dining Services, Dean Wright, announced caffeinated beverages would be sold on campus. Wright said the decision was the result of a change in customer preferences.\n\nMany on-campus student activities and clubs are organized by BYUSA, the university's official student association. A popular comedy club is Divine Comedy.\n\nBYU sponsors a question-answering service known as the \"100 Hour Board\". Previously a bulletin board in the Wilkinson Student Center, it is now hosted online. Anyone with an account may ask a question, with topics ranging from academic questions to questions about relationships or church doctrine. The questions are answered in 100 hours by pseudo-anonymous BYU students. It has been affiliated with \"The Universe\" since 2006.\n\nThe BYU Broadcasting Technical Operations Center is an HD production and distribution facility that is home to local PBS affiliate KBYU-TV, local classical music station KBYU-FM Classical 89, BYU Radio, BYU Radio Instrumental, BYU Radio International, BYUtv and BYU Television International with content in Spanish and Portuguese (both available via terrestrial, satellite, and internet signals). BYUtv is also available via cable throughout some areas of the United States. The BYU Broadcasting Technical Operations Center is home to three television production studios, two television control rooms, radio studios, radio performance space, and master control operations.\n\nThe university produces a weekly newspaper called The Universe (it was published daily until 2012), maintains an online news site that is regularly updated called The Digital Universe and has a daily news program broadcast via KBYU-TV. The university also has a recording label called Tantara Records which is run by the BYU School of Music and promotes the works of student ensembles and faculty.\n\nBYU Magazine is the university's alumni publication, distributed quarterly to more than 200,000 addresses. With a history that dates back to the 1920s, BYU Magazine covers a wide variety of BYU activities, from student life and alumni activities to athletics and research. BYU Today is the magazine's email newsletter, distributed twice a month.\n\n, BYU has approximately 362,000 living alumni. Alumni relations are coordinated and activities are held at the new Gordon B. Hinckley Alumni and Visitors Center.\nOver 21 BYU graduates have served in the U.S. Senate and U.S. House of Representatives, such as former Dean of the U.S. Senate Reed Smoot (class of 1876). Cabinet members of American presidents include former Secretary of Agriculture to President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Ezra Taft Benson ('26) and Rex E. Lee ('60), who was United States Solicitor General under President Ronald Reagan. Mitt Romney, former Governor of Massachusetts, 2012 Republican Presidential Nominee, and U.S. Senator-elect, was class of 1971.\n\nBYU alumni in academia include former Dean of the Harvard Business School Kim B. Clark, two time world's most influential business thinker Clayton M. Christensen, Michael K. Young ('73), former president of the University of Washington, Matthew S. Holland, current president of Utah Valley University, Stan L. Albrecht, former president of Utah State University, Teppo Felin, Professor at the University of Oxford, and Stephen D. Nadauld, previous president of Dixie State University. The University also graduated Nobel Prize winner Paul D. Boyer, as well as Philo Farnsworth (inventor of the electronic television) and Harvey Fletcher (inventor of the hearing aid). Four of BYU's thirteen presidents were alumni of the University. Additionally, alumni of BYU who have served as business leaders include Citigroup CFO Gary Crittenden ('76), former Dell CEO Kevin Rollins ('84), Deseret Book CEO Sheri L. Dew, and Matthew K. McCauley, CEO of children's clothing company Gymboree.\n\nIn literature and journalism, BYU has produced several best-selling authors, including Orson Scott Card ('75), Brandon Sanderson ('00 & '05), and Stephenie Meyer ('95). BYU also graduated American activist and contributor for ABC News Elizabeth Smart-Gilmour. Other media personalities include former CBS News correspondent Art Rascon, award-winning ESPN sportscaster and former Miss America Sharlene Wells Hawkes ('86), and former co-host of CBS's \"The Early Show\" Jane Clayson Johnson ('90.\n\nIn entertainment and television, BYU is represented by Johnny Whitaker ('86) (best known for his role as Jody in \"Family Affair)\", Jon Heder ('02) (best known for his role as Napoleon Dynamite), writer-director Daryn Tufts ('98), Golden Globe-nominated Aaron Eckhart ('94), animator and filmmaker Don Bluth ('54), \"Jeopardy!\" all-time runner-up Ken Jennings ('00), Academy Award-winning filmmaker Kieth Merrill ('67), and Richard Dutcher, the \"Father of Mormon Cinema\". In the music industry BYU is represented by lead singer of the Grammy Award-winning band Imagine Dragons Dan Reynolds, multi-platinum selling drummer Elaine Bradley from the band Neon Trees, crossover dubstep violinist Lindsey Stirling, former \"American Idol\" contestant Carmen Rasmusen, and Mormon Tabernacle Choir director Mack Wilberg.\n\nBYU has also produced many religious leaders. Among the alumni are several LDS Church general authorities, including two church presidents: Ezra Taft Benson ('26), and Thomas S. Monson ('74), six apostles (Neil L. Andersen, D. Todd Christofferson ('69), David A. Bednar ('76), Jeffrey R. Holland ('65 & '66), Dallin H. Oaks ('54), and Reed Smoot 1876), and two general presidents of the Relief Society (Julie B. Beck ('73) and Belle Spafford ('20).\n\nA number of BYU alumni have found success in professional sports, representing the University in 7 MLB World Series, 5 NBA Finals, and 25 NFL Super Bowls. In baseball, BYU alumni include All-Stars Rick Aguilera ('83), Wally Joyner ('84), and Jack Morris, ('76). Professional basketball players include three-time NBA champion Danny Ainge ('81), 1952 NBA Rookie of the Year and 4-time NBA All-Star Mel Hutchins ('51), three-time Olympic medalist and Hall of Famer Krešimir Ćosić, ('73), NBA center Shawn Bradley, and consensus 2011 national college player of the year Jimmer Fredette ('11). BYU also claims notable professional football players including two-time NFL MVP and Super Bowl MVP and Pro Football Hall of Fame quarterback Steve Young ('84) & J.D. ('96), Heisman Trophy winner Ty Detmer ('90), and two-time Super Bowl winner Jim McMahon. In golf, BYU alumni include two major championship winners: Johnny Miller ('69) at the 1973 U.S. Open and 1976 British Open and Mike Weir ('92) at the 2003 Masters.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "4162626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4162626", "title": "Cappella Palatina", "text": "Cappella Palatina\n\nThe Palatine Chapel (), is the royal chapel of the Norman kings of Sicily situated on the first floor at the center of the Palazzo Reale in Palermo, southern Italy.\n\nAlso referred to as a \"Palace church\" or \"Palace chapel\", it was commissioned by Roger II of Sicily in 1132 to be built upon an older chapel (now the crypt) constructed around 1080. It took eight years to build, receiving a royal charter the same year, with the mosaics being only partially finished by 1143. The sanctuary, dedicated to Saint Peter, is reminiscent of a domed basilica. It has three apses, as is usual in Byzantine architecture, with six pointed arches (three on each side of the central nave) resting on recycled classical columns.\n\nThe mosaics of the Palatine Chapel are of unparalleled elegance as concerns elongated proportions and streaming draperies of figures. They are also noted for subtle modulations of colour and luminance. The oldest are probably those covering the ceiling, the drum, and the dome. The shimmering mosaics of the transept, presumably dating from the 1140s and attributed to Byzantine artists, with an illustrated scene, along the north wall, of St. John in the desert and a landscape of \"Agnus Dei\". Below this are five saints, the Greek fathers of the church, St. Gregory of Nissa, St. Gregory the Theologian, St. Basil, St. John Chrysostom and St. Nicholas. The three central figures, St. Gregory, St. Basil, St. John Chrysostom, allude to the Orthodox cult known as the Three Hierarchs, which originated fifty years earlier. Every composition is set within an ornamental frame, not dissimilar to that used in contemporaneous mosaic icons. \n\nThe rest of the mosaics, dated to the 1160s or the 1170s, are executed in a cruder manner and feature Latin (rather than Greek) inscriptions. Probably a work of local craftsmen, these pieces are more narrative and illustrative than transcendental. A few mosaics have a secular character and represent oriental flora and fauna. This may be the only substantial passage of secular Byzantine mosaic extant today.\n\nThe chapel combines harmoniously a variety of styles: the Norman architecture and door decor, the Arabic arches and script adorning the roof, the Byzantine dome and mosaics. For instance, clusters of four eight-pointed stars, typical for Muslim design, are arranged on the ceiling so as to form a Christian cross.\n\nOther remarkable features of the chapel include the muqarnas ceiling, which is spectacular. The hundreds of facets were painted, notably with many purely ornamental vegetal and zoomorphic designs but also with scenes of daily life and many subjects that have not yet been explained. Stylistically influenced by Iraqi 'Abbasid art, these paintings are innovative in their more spatially aware representation of personages and of animals.\n\nThe chapel has been considered a union of a Byzantine church sanctuary and a Western basilica nave. The sanctuary, is of an \"Eastern\" artistic nature, while the nave reflects \"Western\" influences.\n\nThe nave, constructed under Roger II, did not contain any Christian images. These were added later by Roger II's successors, William I and William II. The nave's ceiling consists of Arab, Greek and Latin inscriptions.\n\nThe frame for the royal throne sets against the west wall of the nave. There are six steps leading up to where the throne would be, along with two heraldic lions in two roundels upon the spandrels over the throne frame gabel.\n\nAs an expression of Norman culture, St. Dionysius and St. Martin are represented in the sanctuary. Mosaics are of Byzantine culture in their composition and subjects. The apex of the dome consists of the Pantokrator, with rows of angels, prophets, evangelists and saints. The Byzantine motif ends abruptly with scenes from Christ's life along the south wall of the southern transept arm, while the north wall consists of warrior saints.\n\nSlobodan Ćurčić considers the \"Palatine Cappella\" a reflection of Middle Byzantine art. Illustrating architectural and artistic genius to juxtapose Sicily's \"melting pot\" culture.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6139561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6139561", "title": "Columbia Artists Management", "text": "Columbia Artists Management\n\nColumbia Artists Management, Inc. (CAMI) is an international talent management agency.\n\nBased in New York City, it was formed in 1930 as Columbia Concerts Corporation by Arthur Judson and William S. Paley, the then head of the Columbia Broadcasting System, who helped merge seven independent concert bureaus in the United States.\n\nDuring its existence, CAMI has represented a very large number of active classical artists worldwide, including singers Leontyne Price, Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, Renata Tebaldi, Mario Lanza, Jussi Björling, John McCormack, Richard Tucker, Paul Robeson, and George London; pianists Vladimir Horowitz, Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli, and Van Cliburn; violinists Jascha Heifetz, Yehudi Menuhin, and Tossy Spivakovsky; and conductors Leonard Bernstein, Herbert von Karajan, and Otto Klemperer.\n\nComposers Sergei Prokofiev, Igor Stravinsky, and Aaron Copland were managed by CAMI when they appeared as performers.\n\nBritish music commentator Norman Lebrecht has criticized CAMI and Wilford for what Lebrecht deems to be overly pervasive influence of them on conductor salaries and limited time spent by music directors with orchestras.\n\n"}
{"id": "27120931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27120931", "title": "Culture of Jiangxi", "text": "Culture of Jiangxi\n\nThe culture of Jiangxi refers to the culture of the people based in Jiangxi. It has changed greatly over several millenniums, from the land's prehistoric period to its contemporary culture, which incorporates ancient and traditional Chinese culture and modern culture influenced by Western culture.\n\nGeographic situation makes Jiangxi distinguish from its neighbours, as high mountains separate it from Zhejiang to the east, Fujian and Guangdong to the south, Hunan to the west and Yangzi River forms a natural division between the South and northern China.\n\nGan Chinese has always played a significant role in Jiangxi culture. The Chinese variety is spoken mainly in Jiangxi but also in surrounding regions such as Hunan, Hubei, Anhui, and Fujian. Modern Gan is considered as one of Sinitic languages, which derives from Old Gan and still keeps some linguistic traces of ancient languages in South China.\n\nGan Chinese is written in traditional Chinese characters with Gan variants. Many vocabulary items are no longer used in most Chinese varieties, particularly in Mandarin, while they remain in daily usage in Gan. For example, cooking utensils are called \"uoh\" (鑊) or \"tiang\" (鼎) in Gan which date back to the Shang Dynasty. The Bible was also translated into some Gan dialects as the Christianity was introduced into Jiangxi as early as the 16th century, with the arrival of Marco Polo.\n\nSince the academy represents the historical and cultural progress in a place, the importance of it gradually increased during the thousands of years in China. In ancient China, Jiangxi had four famous academies and they brought special learning atmosphere to Jiangxi for more than 2000 years.\n\nTea is one of the most famous drink in the world; as a national drink in China, it represents not only the property of drinker but also the inspiration and tradition within the tea. Lushan Yunwu tea, which is named for Lushan Mountain in Jiangxi Province, shows the optimistic and peaceful character of people in Jiangxi.\n\nMost of the long novels of Jiangxi don't show how reality is, they pay attention to the \"excavation of history and culture\".\n\nDifferent from the novels, the majority of short stories of Jiangxi closely related to the practice world.\nUrbanization beings several topics for writers to discuss how it changes and reforms the structure of society. In addition, the transformation process where traditional concepts are influenced by industrialization is shown in the short stories.\n\nNuo opera, which is said to have some relations with Baiyue culture, is a popular folk opera in Jiangxi and it develops into various styles in different cities. They all have martial scenes involving combat and non-martial scenes narrating ordinary stories, which differs Jiangxi Nuo from other Nuo operas in southwest China.\n\nFrom late Qing Dynasty to now, there were about 150 Nuo opera performing groups. A temple for the \"nuo\" god, which was built in the Ming Dynasty, is still in good function today for people to worship the nuo god. About 80 nuo opera programs date from the past still exist today. The number of nuo opera masks in Jiangxi is over 2000, and there are approximately 2000 professional nuo opera performing folk artists.\n\nJiangxi architecture is heavily influenced by Fengshui theories of Taoism, one of whose birthplaces is located in Mount Longhu. It pays much attention to the harmony between inhabitants and the building and can simply make details to fix the direction of the bed in order to be coordinated to the background of the inhabitant. The Buddhism is also prosperous in Jiangxi, and traditional religional architecture are found in each city.\n\nJiangxi cuisine favors overtly spicy flavors, an important feature of many southern cuisines. Chili peppers are directly treated as vegetable instead of as a flavoring and sometimes they are also used in some traditionally unspicy dishes. Stir frying is one of key techniques in Jiangxi cooking and fish are common ingredients due to numerous rivers within Jiangxi.\nPure Land Buddhism originated in Jiangxi.\n\nJiangxi people or \"Jiangxinese\" (贛人, Gonnin) believe in the bottom-line Chinese values of \"family solidarity\", \"courtesy\" and \"saving face\" that carry significant weight in the culture. Equally, mountainous geography and abundant population have the people learn to be contented being basically well-off (小富則安), sort of Neo-Confucianism developed by Zhu Xi and Lu Jiuyuan.\n\n"}
{"id": "8318989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8318989", "title": "Culture of Saba", "text": "Culture of Saba\n\nSaba's culture bears the influence of its early settlers, among them the English, Scottish, Africans, and Dutch. Because Saba measures only five square miles and has a treacherous coastline (making invasion difficult), its population has always been small. Today its population numbers about 1500 people, with approximately 250 being expatriates. Many of the non-Sabans teach at or attend the Saba University School of Medicine. \n\nAlthough archaeologists have found evidence of early Amerindian presence, a group of shipwrecked Englishmen in 1632 found the island uninhabited. During the colonial period, Saba's ownership changed hands many times between the Spanish, English, Dutch, and French. Although part of the Netherlands Antilles since 1954, Saba's official language (along with that of Sint Maarten and Sint Eustatius) is both Dutch and English, given the fact that the majority of Sabans speak English as their first language. English has been added to Saba's school curriculum by the Dutch government as a result.\n\nMost Sabans are descended from a handful of families. Hassell, Simmons, and Johnson are common surnames. Early settlers relied on farming, fishing, sailing, and shipbuilding for their livings; pirates sought haven there, too. They passed down a hardy nature necessary to survive the island's conditions. \n\nBecause of its difficult terrain (the island is a dormant volcano rising out of the sea), modern conveniences were slow in coming to Saba. In 1938, construction began to connect its four villages with a road – a feat which engineers had said was impossible due to the island's perilous landscape. Full-time electricity only became available in the 1970s. Its houses have a quaint, cottage look with red roofs. The lifestyle is still slow and old-fashioned with little nightlife, even with the emergence of an ecotourism industry in the last few decades. Sabans are proud of their history of environmental conservation, calling Saba “The Unspoiled Queen.” \n\nSaban women continue to make two traditional island products, Saba lace and Saba Spice. Saba Lace is handstitched lace, which the island's women began making in the late 19th century and built into a thriving mail-order business with the United States. Saba Spice is a rum drink, brewed with a combination of spices. \n\nAs in other Caribbean locations, Sabans throw an annual Carnival. Saba's Carnival takes place the last week in July and includes parades, steel bands, competitions, and food. \n\nCatholicism is Saba's predominant religion. Other faiths practiced on the island include the Anglican Church, the Seventh-day Adventist Church, Wesleyan Holiness, Islam, Jehovah's Witnesses, and Judaism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "623166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=623166", "title": "Dihydrogen monoxide parody", "text": "Dihydrogen monoxide parody\n\nThe dihydrogen monoxide parody involves calling water by the unfamiliar chemical name \"dihydrogen monoxide\" (DHMO), or \"hydroxylic acid\" in some cases, and listing some of water's well-known effects in a particularly alarming manner, such as accelerating corrosion and causing suffocation. The parody often calls for dihydrogen monoxide to be banned, regulated, and labeled as dangerous. It illustrates how a lack of scientific literacy and an exaggerated analysis can lead to misplaced fears.\n\nThe parody gained renewed popularity in the late 1990s when a 14-year-old student, Nathan Zohner, collected anti-DHMO petitions for a science project about gullibility. The story has since been used in science education to encourage critical thinking and discussion of the scientific method.\n\nA 1983 April Fools' Day edition of the \"Durand Express\", a weekly newspaper in Durand, Michigan, reported that \"dihydrogen oxide\" had been found in the city's water pipes, and warned that it was fatal if inhaled, and could produce blistering vapors. The first appearance of the parody on the Internet was attributed by the \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" to the so-called \"Coalition to Ban Dihydrogen Monoxide\", a parody organization at UC Santa Cruz following on-campus postings and newsgroup discussions in 1990.\n\nThis new version of the parody was created by Eric Lechner, Lars Norpchen, and Matthew Kaufman—housemates while attending the University of California, Santa Cruz in 1989–1990, revised by Craig Jackson in 1994, and brought to widespread public attention in 1997 when Nathan Zohner, a 14-year-old student, gathered petitions to ban \"DHMO\" as the basis of his science project, titled \"How Gullible Are We?\"\n\nJackson's original site included the following warning:\n\nA mock material safety data sheet has also been created for HO.\n\nThe water molecule has the chemical formula HO, meaning each molecule of water is composed of two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. Literally, the term \"dihydrogen monoxide\" means \"two hydrogen, one oxygen\", consistent with its molecular formula: the prefix \"\" in \"dihydrogen\" means \"two\", the prefix \"\" in \"monoxide\" means \"one\", and an oxide is an oxygen atom attached to another atom in an ionic compound.\n\nUsing chemical nomenclature, various names for water are in common use within the scientific community. Some such names include \"hydrogen oxide\", as well as an alkali name of \"hydrogen hydroxide\", and several acid names such as \"hydric acid\", \"hydroxic acid\", \"hydroxyl acid\", and \"hydroxilic acid\". The term \"hydroxyl acid\" used in the original text is a non-standard name.\n\nUnder the 2005 revisions of IUPAC nomenclature of inorganic chemistry, there is no single correct name for every compound. The primary function of chemical nomenclature is to ensure that each name refers, unambiguously, to a single substance. It is considered less important to ensure that each substance should have a single unambiguous name, although the number of acceptable names is limited. \"Water\" is one acceptable name for this compound, even though it is neither a systematic nor an international name and is specific to just one phase of the compound (its liquid form). The other IUPAC recommendation is \"oxidane,\" which is used by hoax industry groups promoting DHMO as a safe industrial chemical while hinting at dangers and government conspiracies.\n\n"}
{"id": "969975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969975", "title": "Drapery", "text": "Drapery\n\nDrapery is a general word referring to cloths or textiles (Old French \"draperie\", from Late Latin \"drappus\"). It may refer to cloth used for decorative purposes – such as around windows – or to the trade of retailing cloth, originally mostly for clothing, formerly conducted by drapers. \n\nIn art history, drapery refers to any cloth or textile depicted, which is usually clothing. The schematic depiction of the folds and woven patterns of loose-hanging clothing on the human form, with ancient prototypes, was reimagined as an adjunct to the female form by Greek vase-painters and sculptors of the earliest fifth century and has remained a major source of stylistic formulas in sculpture and painting, even after the Renaissance adoption of tighter-fitting clothing styles. After the Renaissance, large cloths with no very obvious purpose are often used decoratively, especially in portraits in the grand manner; these are also known as draperies.\n\nFor the Greeks, as Sir Kenneth Clark noted, clinging drapery followed the planes and contours of the bodily form, emphasizing its twist and stretch: \"floating drapery makes visible the line of movement through which it has just passed... Drapery, by suggesting lines of force, indicates for each action a past and a possible future.\" Clark contrasted the formalized draperies in the frieze at Olympia with the sculptural frieze figures of the Parthenon, where \"it has attained a freedom and an expressive power that have never been equalled except by Leonardo da Vinci\". Undraped male figures, Clark observed, \"were kept in motion by their flying cloaks.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4008035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4008035", "title": "Efficiency Movement", "text": "Efficiency Movement\n\nThe Efficiency Movement was a major movement in the United States, Britain and other industrial nations in the early 20th century that sought to identify and eliminate waste in all areas of the economy and society, and to develop and implement best practices. The concept covered mechanical, economic, social, and personal improvement. The quest for efficiency promised effective, dynamic management rewarded by growth.\n\nAs a result of the influence of an early proponent, it is more often known as Taylorism.\n\nThe Efficiency Movement played a central role in the Progressive Era in the United States, where it flourished 1890–1932. Adherents argued that all aspects of the economy, society and government were riddled with waste and inefficiency. Everything would be better if experts identified the problems and fixed them. The result was strong support for building research universities and schools of business and engineering, municipal research agencies, as well as reform of hospitals and medical schools, and the practice of farming. Perhaps the best known leaders were engineers Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856–1915), who used a stopwatch to identify the smallest inefficiencies, and Frank Bunker Gilbreth, Sr. (1868–1924) who proclaimed there was always \"one best way\" to fix a problem.\n\nLeaders such as Herbert Croly, Charles R. van Hise and Richard Ely sought to improve governmental performance by training experts in public service comparable to those in Germany, notably at the Universities of Wisconsin and Pennsylvania. Schools of business administration set up management programs oriented toward efficiency.\n\nMany cities set up \"efficiency bureaus\" to identify waste and apply the best practices. For example, Chicago created an Efficiency Division (1910–16) within the city government's Civil Service Commission, and private citizens organized the Chicago Bureau of Public Efficiency (1910–32). The former pioneered the study of \"personal efficiency,\" measuring employees' performance through new scientific merit systems and efficiency movement \n\nState governments were active as well. For example, Massachusetts set up its \"Commission on Economy and Efficiency\" in 1912. It made hundreds of recommendations.\n\nLeading philanthropists such as Andrew Carnegie and John D. Rockefeller actively promoted the efficiency movement. In his many philanthropic pursuits, Rockefeller believed in supporting efficiency. He once said,\n\nThe conservation movement regarding national resources came to prominence during the Progressive Era. According to historian Samuel P. Hays, the conservation movement was based on the \"gospel of the efficiency.\".\n\nThe Massachusetts Commission on Economy and Efficiency reflected the new concern with conservation. It said in 1912:\n\nPresident Roosevelt was the nation's foremost conservationist, putting the issue high on the national agenda by emphasizing the need to eliminate wasteful uses of limited natural resources. He worked with all the major figures of the movement, especially his chief advisor on the matter, Gifford Pinchot. Roosevelt was deeply committed to conserving natural resources, and is considered to be the nation's first conservation President.\nIn 1908, Roosevelt sponsored the Conference of Governors held in the White House, with a focus on natural resources and their most efficient use. Roosevelt delivered the opening address: \"Conservation as a National Duty.\"\n\nIn contrast, environmentalist John Muir promulgated a very different view of conservation, rejecting the efficiency motivation. Muir instead preached that nature was sacred and humans are intruders who should look but not develop. Working through the Sierra Club he founded, Muir tried to minimize commercial use of water resources and forests. While Muir wanted nature preserved for the sake of pure beauty, Roosevelt subscribed to Pinchot's formulation, \"to make the forest produce the largest amount of whatever crop or service will be most useful, and keep on producing it for generation after generation of men and trees.\" \n\nIn U.S. national politics, the most prominent figure was Herbert Hoover, a trained engineer who downplayed politics and believed dispassionate, nonpolitical experts could solve the nation's great problems, such as ending poverty.\n\nAfter 1929, Democrats blamed the Great Depression on Hoover and helped to somewhat discredit the movement, though the demand for efficiency and elimination of waste remains an important component of American values.\n\nBoston lawyer Louis Brandeis (1856–1941) argued bigness conflicted with efficiency and added a new political dimension to the Efficiency Movement. For instance, while fighting against legalized price fixing, Brandeis launched an effort to influence congressional policymaking with the help of his friend Norman Hapgood, who was then the editor of Harper's Weekly. He coordinated the publication of a series of articles (\"Competition Kills\", \"Efficiency and the One-Price Article\", and \"How Europe deals with the one-price goods\"), which were also distributed by the lobbying group American Fair Trade League to legislators, Supreme Court justices, governors, and twenty national magazines. For his works, he was asked to speak before a congressional committee considering the price-fixing bill he drafted. Here, he stated that \"big business is not more efficient than little business\" and that \"it is a mistake to suppose that the department stores can do business cheaper than the little dealer.\" Brandeis ideas on which business is most efficient conflicted with Croly's positions, which favored efficiency driven by a kind of consolidation gained through large-scale economic operations.\n\nAs early as 1895 Brandeis had warned of the harm that giant corporations could do to competitors, customers, and their own workers. The growth of industrialization was creating mammoth companies which he felt threatened the well-being of millions of Americans. In \"The Curse of Bigness\" he argued, \"Efficiency means greater production with less effort and at less cost, through the elimination of unnecessary waste, human and material. How else can we hope to attain our social ideals?.\" He also argued against an appeal to Congress by the state-regulated railroad industry in 1910 seeking an increase in rates. Brandeis explained that instead of passing along increased costs to the consumer, the railroads should pursue efficiency by reducing their overhead and streamlining their operations, initiatives that were unprecedented during the time. \n\nThe Bedaux system, developed by Franco-American management consultant Charles Bedaux (1886–1944) built on the work of F.W. Taylor and Charles E. Knoeppel.\n\nIts distinctive advancement beyond these earlier thinkers was the Bedaux Unit or \"B\", a universal measure for all manual work.\n\nThe Bedaux System was influential in the United States in the 1920s and Europe in the 1930s and 1940s, especially in Britain.\n\nFrom the 1920s to the 1950s there were about one thousand companies in 21 countries worldwide that were run on the Bedaux System, including giants such as Swift's, Eastman Kodak, B.F. Goodrich, DuPont, Fiat, ICI and General Electric.\n\nLater movements had echoes of the Efficiency Movement and were more directly inspired by Taylor and Taylorism. Technocracy, for instance, more of a fad than a movement, and others flourished in the 1930s and 1940s.\n\nPostmodern opponents of nuclear energy in the 1970s broadened their attack to try to discredit movements that saw salvation for human society in technical expertise alone, or which held that scientists or engineers had any special expertise to offer in the political realm.\n\nComing into usage in 1990, the Western term Lean manufacturing (lean enterprise, lean production, or simply \"Lean\") refers to a business idea that considered the expenditure of resources for anything other than the creation of value for the end customer to be wasteful, and thus a target for elimination. Today the Lean concept is broadening to include a greater range of strategic goals, not just cost-cutting and efficiency.\n\nIn engineering, the concept of efficiency was developed in Britain in the mid-18th century by John Smeaton (1724–1792). Called the \"father of civil engineering\", he studied water wheels and steam engines. In the late 19th century there was much talk about improving the efficiency of the administration and economic performance of the British Empire.\n\nNational Efficiency was an attempt to discredit the old-fashioned habits, customs and institutions that put the British at a handicap in competition with the world, especially with Germany, which was seen as the epitome of efficiency. In the early 20th century, \"National Efficiency\" became a powerful demand — a movement supported by prominent figures across the political spectrum who disparaged sentimental humanitarianism and identified waste as a mistake that could no longer be tolerated. The movement took place in two waves; the first wave from 1899 to 1905 was made urgent by the inefficiencies and failures in the Second Boer War (1899–1902). \"Spectator\" magazine reported in 1902 there was \"a universal outcry for efficiency in all departments of society, in all aspects of life\". The two most important themes were technocratic efficiency and managerial efficiency. As White (1899) argued vigorously, the empire needed to be put on a business footing and administered to get better results. The looming threat of Germany, which was widely seen as a much more efficient nation, added urgency after 1902. Politically National Efficiency brought together modernizing Conservatives and Unionists, Liberals who wanted to bring modernize their party, and Fabians such as George Bernard Shaw and H. G. Wells, along with Beatrice and Sidney Webb, who had outgrown socialism and saw the utopia of a scientifically up-to-date society supervised by experts such as themselves. Churchill in 1908 formed an alliance with the Webbs, announcing the goal of a \"National Minimum\", covering hours, working conditions, and wages – it was a safety net below which the individual would not be allowed to fall.\n\nRepresentative legislation included the Education Act of 1902, which emphasized the role of experts in the schools system. Higher education was an important initiative, typified by the growth of the London School of Economics, and the foundation of Imperial College.\n\nThere was a pause in the movement between 1904 and 1909, when interest resumed. The most prominent new leaders included Liberals Winston Churchill and David Lloyd George, whose influence brought a bundle of reform legislation that introduced the welfare state to Britain.\n\nMuch of the popular and elite support for National Efficiency grew out of concern for Britain's military position, especially with respect to Germany. The Royal Navy underwent a dramatic modernization, most famously in the introduction of the \"Dreadnought\", which in 1906 revolutionized naval warfare overnight.\n\nIn Germany the efficiency movement was called \"rationalization\" and it was a powerful social and economic force before 1933. In part it looked explicitly at American models, especially Fordism. The Bedaux system was widely adopted in the rubber and tire industry, despite strong resistance in the socialist labor movement to the Bedaux system. Continental AG, the leading rubber company in Germany, adopted the system and profited heavily from it, thus surviving the Great Depression relatively undamaged and improving its competitive capabilities. However most German businessmen preferred the home-grown REFA system which focused on the standardization of working conditions, tools, and machinery.\n\n\"Rationalization\" meant higher productivity and greater efficiency, promising science would bring prosperity. More generally it promised a new level of modernity and was applied to economic production and consumption as well as public administration. Various versions of rationalization were promoted by industrialists and Social Democrats, by engineers and architects, by educators and academics, by middle class feminists and social workers, by government officials and politicians of many parties. It was ridiculed by the extremists in the Communist movement. As ideology and practice, rationalization challenged and transformed not only machines, factories, and vast business enterprises but also the lives of middle-class and working-class Germans.\n\nIdeas of Science Management was very popular in the Soviet Union. One of the leading theorists and practitioners of the Scientific Management in Soviet Russia was Alexei Gastev. The Central Institute of Labour (Tsentralnyi Institut Truda, or TsIT), founded by Gastev in 1921 with Vladimir Lenin's support, was a veritable citadel of socialist Taylorism.\nFascinated by Taylorism and Fordism, Gastev has led a popular movement for the “scientific organization of labor” (Nauchnaya Organizatsiya Truda, or NOT).\nBecause of its emphasis on the cognitive components of labor, some scholars consider Gastev’s NOT to represent a Marxian variant of cybernetics. As with the concept of 'Organoprojection' (1919) by Pavel Florensky, underlying Nikolai Bernstein and Gastev's approach, lay a powerful man-machine metaphor.\n\nW. Edwards Deming (1900–1993) brought the efficiency movement to Japan after World War II, teaching top management how to improve design (and thus service), product quality, testing and sales (the last through global markets), especially using statistical methods. Deming then brought his methods back to the U.S. in the form of quality control called continuous improvement process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85119", "title": "Epona", "text": "Epona\n\nIn Gallo-Roman religion, Epona was a protector of horses, ponies, donkeys, and mules. She was particularly a goddess of fertility, as shown by her attributes of a patera, cornucopia, ears of grain and the presence of foals in some sculptures. She and her horses might also have been leaders of the soul in the after-life ride, with parallels in Rhiannon of the Mabinogion. The worship of Epona, \"the sole Celtic divinity ultimately worshipped in Rome itself\", was widespread in the Roman Empire between the first and third centuries AD; this is unusual for a Celtic deity, most of whom were associated with specific localities.\n\nAlthough known only from Roman contexts, the name Epona ('Great Mare') is from the Gaulish language; it is derived from the inferred Proto-Celtic *\"ekwos\" 'horse', which gives rise to modern Welsh \"ebol\" 'foal', together with the augmentative suffix \"-on\" frequently, though not exclusively, found in theonyms (for example Sirona, Matrona) and the usual Gaulish feminine singular \"-a\". In an episode preserved in a remark of Pausanias, an archaic Demeter Erinys (Vengeful Demeter) too had also been a Great Mare, who was mounted by Poseidon in the form of a stallion and foaled Arion and the Daughter who was unnamed outside the Arcadian mysteries. Demeter was venerated as a mare in Lycosoura in Arcadia into historical times.\n\nFernand Benoît found the earliest attestations of a cult of Epona in the Danubian provinces and asserted that she had been introduced in the \"limes\" of Gaul by horsemen from the east. That suggestion has not been generally taken up.\nAlthough the name is Gaulish, dedicatory inscriptions to Epona are in Latin or, rarely, Greek. They were made not only by Celts, but also by Germans, Romans, and other inhabitants of the Roman Empire. An inscription to Epona from Mainz, Germany, identifies the dedicator as Syrian.\n\nA long Latin inscription of the first century BC, engraved in a lead sheet and accompanying the sacrifice of a filly and the votive gift of a cauldron, was found in 1887 at Rom, Deux-Sèvres, the Roman Rauranum. Olmsted reads the inscription as invoking the goddess with an archaic profusion of epithets: \"Eponina\" 'dear little Epona', \"Atanta\" 'horse-goddess', \"Potia\" 'powerful Mistress' (compare Greek \"Potnia\"), \"Dibonia\" (Latin, the 'good goddess')\", \"Catona\" 'of battle', noble and good \"Vovesia\". However, Olmsted's interpretation has not been generally accepted by other scholars; Meid interprets the same inscription as an invocation of Dibona in vulgar Greek for aid in a romantic dispute.\n\nEpona's feast day in the Roman calendar was given as December 18 on a rustic calendar from Guidizzolo, Italy, although this may have been only a local celebration. She was incorporated into the imperial cult by being invoked on behalf of the Emperor, as \"Epona Augusta\" or \"Epona Regina\".\n\nThe supposed autonomy of Celtic civilization in Gaul suffered a further setback with Fernand Benoît's study of the funereal symbolism of the horseman with the serpent-tailed (\"anguiforme\") daemon, which he established as a theme of victory over death, and Epona; both he found to be late manifestations of Mediterranean-influenced symbolism, which had reached Gaul through contacts with Etruria and Magna Graecia. Benoît compared the rider with most of the riders imaged around the Mediterranean shores.\n\nPerceptions of native Celtic goddesses had changed under Roman hegemony: only the names remained the same. As Gaul was Romanized under the early Empire, Epona’s sovereign role evolved into a protector of cavalry. The cult of Epona was spread over much of the Roman Empire by the auxiliary cavalry, \"alae\", especially the Imperial Horse Guard or \"equites singulares augustii\" recruited from Gaul, Lower Germany, and Pannonia. A series of their dedications to Epona and other Celtic, Roman and German deities was found in Rome, at the Lateran. As Epane she is attested in Cantabria, northern Spain, on Mount Bernorio, Palencia, as Iccona Loiminna in Portugal on the Lusitanian inscription of Cabeço das Fráguas.\n\nA euhemeristic account of Epona's origin occurs in the \"Parallela Minora\", which were traditionally attributed to Plutarch (but are now classed as \"Pseudo-Plutarch\"):\n\nFulvius Stellus hated women and used to consort with a mare and in due time the mare gave birth to a beautiful girl and they named her Epona. She is the goddess that is concerned with the protection of horses. So Agesilaüs in the third book of his \"Italian History.\"\n\nThe tale was passed along in the context of unseemly man-beast coupling in Giambattista Della Porta's edition of \"Magia naturalis\" (1589), a potpourri of the sensible and questionable, erroneously citing Plutarch's \"Life of Solon\". It may represent some recollection of Indo-European horse sacrifice, such as the Vedic \"ashvamedha\" and the Irish ritual described by Giraldus Cambrensis, both of which have to do with kingship. In the Celtic ritual, the king mates with a white mare thought to embody the goddess of sovereignty.\n\nSculptures of Epona fall into five types, as distinguished by Benoît: riding, standing or seated before a horse, standing or seated between two horses, a tamer of horses in the manner of \"potnia theron\" and the symbolic mare and foal. In the Equestrian type, common in Gaul, she is depicted sitting side-saddle on a horse or (rarely) lying on one; in the Imperial type (more common outside Gaul) she sits on a throne flanked by two or more horses or foals. In distant Dacia, she is represented on a stela (now at the Szépmüvézeti Museum, Budapest) in the format of Cybele, seated frontally on a throne with her hands on the necks of her paired animals: her horses are substitutions for Cybele's lions.\n\nEpona is mentioned in \"The Golden Ass\" by Apuleius, where an aedicular niche with her image on a pillar in a stable has been garlanded with freshly picked roses. In his \"Satires\", the Roman poet Juvenal also links the worship and iconography of Epona to the area of a stable. Small images of Epona have been found in Roman sites of stables and barns over a wide territory. Epona is also indirectly mentioned in Victor Hugo's \"Les Misérables\", as one of his characters is named for her- Éponine. In popular video game series \"The Legend of Zelda\", the main character's horse is named \"Epona\" after the goddess. The game horse is always brown or chestnut, with a white mane.\n\nThe probable date of c. 1380-550 BC ascribed to the giant chalk horse carved into the hillside turf at Uffington, in southern England, may be too early to be directly associated with Epona, and may not actually represent a horse at all. The West Country traditional hobby-horse riders parading on May Day at Padstow, Cornwall and Minehead, Somerset, which survived to the mid-twentieth century, even though Morris dances had been forgotten, was thought by folklorists through the 20th Century to have deep roots in the veneration of Epona, as may the British aversion to eating horsemeat. At Padstow formerly, at the end of the festivities the hobby-horse was ritually submerged in the sea. However, there is no firm evidence of the festival before the 18th Century\n\nA provincial, though not crude, small (7.5 cm high) Roman bronze of a seated Epona, flanked by a small mare and stallion, found in England, is conserved in the British Museum. Lying on her lap and on the patera raised in her right hand are disproportionately large ears of grain; ears of grain also protrude from the mouths of the ponies, whose heads are turned towards the goddess. On her left arm she holds a yoke, which curves up above her shoulder, an attribute unique to this bronze statuette.\n\nThe Welsh figure Rhiannon rides a white horse but has no other attributes in common with Epona. A south Welsh folk ritual call Mari Lwyd (Grey Mare) is still undertaken in December, which some folklorists likewise have held up as an apparent survival of the veneration of the goddess, but again there is no firm evidence to support the age of the practice. The pantomime horse is thought to be a related survival.\n\nOn Mackinac Island, Michigan, Epona is celebrated each June with stable tours, a blessing of the animals and the Epona and Barkus Parade. Mackinac Island does not permit personal automobiles; the primary source of transportation remains the horse, so celebrating Epona has special significance on this island in the upper midwest. The \"Feast of Epona\" involves the blessing of horses and other animals by a local churchman.\n\nEpona is also worshipped today by neo-druids and other pagans and polytheists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20986646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20986646", "title": "Etymology of Kapisa", "text": "Etymology of Kapisa\n\nKapiśa is related to and includes Kafiristan. The scholarly community holds that Kapiśa is equivalent to the Sanskrit Kamboja. Kamboja and Kapiśa are believed to be two attempts to render the same foreign word (which could not appropriately be transliterated into Sanskrit). Dr. S. Levi holds that Persian Kambujiya or Kau(n)bojiya, Sanskrit Kamboja as well as Kapiśa, all etymologically refer to the same foreign word. The evidence from third century Buddhist tantra text Mahamayuri, which uses \"Kabusha\" for \"Kapisha\", and the Ramayana-manjri by Sanskrit Acharya, Kshmendra of Kashmir (11th century), which specifically equates Kapiśa with Kamboja, thus substituting the former with the latter, sufficiently attest that Kapiśa and Kamboja are the same. According to the Indian history series: \"History and Culture of Indian People\", Kapisa and Kamboja are the same. Scholars such as Dr. Moti Chandra and Dr. Krishna Chandra Mishra also write that the \"Karpasika\" (of Mahabharata) and Kapisa (\"Ki-pin/Ka-pin/Chi-pin of the Chinese writings\") are synonymous terms. Both Karpasika and Kapiśa are essentially equivalent to Sanskrit Kamboja. The Paninian term \"Kapiśi\" is believed to have been the capital of ancient Kamboja. Kapiśa (\"Ki-pin, Ke-pin, Ka-pin, Chi-pin of the Chinese records\") refers to the Kamboja kingdom, located on the south-eastern side of the Hindukush in the Paropamisadae region. It was anciently inhabited by the Aśvakayana (Greek: Assakenoi), and the Aśvayana (Greek Aspasio) (q.v.) sub-tribes of the Kambojas. Epic Mahabharata refers to two Kamboja settlements: one called Kamboja, adjacent to the Daradas (of Gilgit), extending from Kafiristan to south-east Kashmir including Rajauri/Poonch districts, while the original Kamboja, known as Parama Kamboja, was located north of Hindukush in Transoxiana territory, mainly in Badakshan and Pamirs/Allai valley, as neighbors to the Rishikas in the Scythian land. Ptolemy refers to two Kamboja territories/and or ethnics - viz.: \"Tambyzoi\", located north of Hindukush on Oxus in Bactria/Badakshan, and \"Ambautai\", located on the southern side of Hindukush in Paropamisadae. The Komoi clan of Ptolemy, inhabiting towards Sogdiana mountainous regions north of Bactria, is believed by scholars to represent the Kamboja people. Front ranking scholars like Dr. S. Levi, Dr Michael Witzel, and numerous others accept the identity of Tambyzoi and Ambautai with Sanskrit Kamboja. The Ptolemian \"Ambautai\" formed parts of the Kapiśa kingdom under sway of Aśvakayana/Aśvayana (Aśvaka) Kambojas. It appears probable that the original home of the Kambojas was trans-Oxian Kamboja, from where some tribal sections moved southwards and established colonies in Paropamisan on southern side of Hindukush. Over time, the \"Paropamisan\" settlements came to be addressed as Kamboja proper, whereas the original Kamboja settlement lying north of Hindukush in Transoxiana became known as 'Parama-Kamboja', or \"furthest Kamboja\". Some scholars call Parama Kamboja 'Uttara-Kamboja', or \"northern Kamboja\" or \"Distant Kamboja\". The Kapisa-Kamboja equivalence, as suggested by scholars such as Dr. Levi, applies to the Paropamisan Kamboja settlement.\n\nAccording to the conventional etymology, the name \"Kafir\" derives from Arabic \"Kafir\", commonly translated into English as \"infidels\" or \"idolaters.\" \"Kafiristan\", then, would be \"The Land of the Infidels\". This explanation would justify the renaming of the country after its Islamization.\n\nMany historians, however, opine that the local name \"Kafir\" comes from \"Kapiś\" (= \"Kapish\"), the ancient Sanskrit name of the region that included historic Kafiristan. This is also given as \"Ki-pin\" (or \"Ke-pin, Ka-pin, Chi-pin\") in old Chinese chronicles. This name, unrelated to the Arabic word, is believed to have, at some point, changed into the word \"Kapir\". This linguistic phenomenon is not unusual for this region. The name of King Kanishaka, who once ruled over this region, is also found written as \"Kanerika\", an example of \"ś\" or \"sh\" changing to \"r.\" In a similar way, \"Kapiś\" – the name of the people of Kapiś/Kapiśa – is believed to have changed to Kapir and then Kafir. One of the dominant clan of the Kafirs was known as \"Katir\" until recently.\n\nThe second change from \"Kapir\" to \"Kafir\" may have occurred spontaneously, since the exchange of \"p\" by \"f\" is common in Indo-European languages. It may also have been the result of confusion or intentional wordplay with the Arabic word, since the Kafirs were pagans until 1895.\n\nThe derivation of Kafiristan is now fairly easy, since \"-stan\" in Iranian language means country, abode, or place. Kafiristan would literally mean the \"land or abode of the Kafir (Kapir) peoples\" i.e. people belonging to Kapiśa.\n\nToday, it is disputed if the term \"Kafir\" really defines a traditional ethnic group.\n"}
{"id": "1548677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1548677", "title": "Exercises in Style", "text": "Exercises in Style\n\nExercises in Style (), written by Raymond Queneau, is a collection of 99 retellings of the same story, each in a different style. In each, the narrator gets on the \"S\" bus (now no. 84), witnesses an altercation between a man (a zazou) with a long neck and funny hat and another passenger, and then sees the same person two hours later at the Gare St-Lazare getting advice on adding a button to his overcoat. The literary variations recall the famous 33rd chapter of the 1512 rhetorical guide by Desiderius Erasmus, \"\".\n\nThe book has been translated into the following languages :\n\nBecause, by their nature, the various retellings of the story employ fine subtleties of the French language, \"translations\" into these other languages are adaptations as well as being translations.\n\nThe English translation by Barbara Wright (reprinted in paperback in 1981) consists of the tale retold in the following 'styles', where the original has been adapted (rather than translated) the original title is given in italics following :-\n"}
{"id": "3473503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3473503", "title": "Film series", "text": "Film series\n\nA film series, film franchise, movie series, or movie franchise is a collection of related films in succession that share the same fictional universe, or are marketed as a series.\n\nSometimes the work is conceived from the beginning as a multiple-film work – for example, the \"Three Colours\" series – but in most cases the success of the original film inspires further films to be made. Individual sequels are relatively common, but are not always successful enough to spawn further installments.\n\nThe Marvel Cinematic Universe is the highest grossing film series in unadjusted US Dollar figures surpassing the Wizarding World, \"Star Wars\", James Bond, and J. R. R. Tolkien's Middle-Earth series. However, \"Star Wars\" has the highest when adjusted for inflation.\n\nThe following list is ordered for the highest grossing (up to 500 million gross). Updated to 16 October 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48597", "title": "Furniture", "text": "Furniture\n\nFurniture refers to movable objects intended to support various human activities such as seating (e.g., chairs, stools, and sofas), eating (tables), and sleeping (e.g., beds). Furniture is also used to hold objects at a convenient height for work (as horizontal surfaces above the ground, such as tables and desks), or to store things (e.g., cupboards and shelves). Furniture can be a product of design and is considered a form of decorative art. In addition to furniture's functional role, it can serve a symbolic or religious purpose. It can be made from many materials, including metal, plastic, and wood. Furniture can be made using a variety of woodworking joints which often reflect the local culture.\n\nPeople have been using natural objects, such as tree stumps, rocks and moss, as furniture since the beginning of human civilisation. Archaeological research shows that from around 30,000 years ago, people began constructing and carving their own furniture, using wood, stone, and animal bones. Early furniture from this period is known from artwork such as a Venus figurine found in Russia, depicting the goddess on a throne. The first surviving extant furniture is in the homes of Skara Brae in Scotland, and includes cupboards, dressers and beds all constructed from stone. Complex construction techniques such as joinery began in the early dynastic period of ancient Egypt. This era saw constructed wooden pieces, including stools and tables, sometimes decorated with valuable metals or ivory. The evolution of furniture design continued in ancient Greece and ancient Rome, with thrones being commonplace as well as the klinai, multipurpose couches used for relaxing, eating, and sleeping. The furniture of the Middle Ages was usually heavy, oak, and ornamented. Furniture design expanded during the Italian Renaissance of the fourteenth and fifteenth century. The seventeenth century, in both Southern and Northern Europe, was characterized by opulent, often gilded Baroque designs. The nineteenth century is usually defined by revival styles. The first three-quarters of the twentieth century are often seen as the march towards Modernism. One unique outgrowth of post-modern furniture design is a return to natural shapes and textures.\n\nThe English word \"furniture\" is derived from the French word \"fourniture\", the noun form of \"fournir\", which means to supply or provide. Thus \"fourniture\" in French means supplies or provisions. The English usage, referring specifically to household objects, is specific to that language; French and other Romance languages as well as German use variants of the word \"meubles\", which derives from Latin \"mobilia\", meaning \"moveable goods\".\n\nThe practice of using natural objects as rudimentary pieces of furniture likely dates to the beginning of human civilisation. Early humans are likely to have used tree stumps as seats, rocks as rudimentary tables, and mossy areas for sleeping. During the late palaeolithic or early neolithic period, from around 30,000 years ago, people began constructing and carving their own furniture, using wood, stone and animal bones. The earliest evidence for the existence of constructed furniture is a Venus figurine found at the Gagarino site in Russia, which depicts the goddess in a sitting position, on a throne. A similar statue of a Mother Goddess was found in Catal Huyuk in Turkey, dating to between 6000 and 5500 BCE. The inclusion of such a seat in the figurines implies that these were already common artefacts of that age.\nA range of unique stone furniture has been excavated in Skara Brae, a Neolithic village in Orkney, Scotland. The site dates from 3100–2500 BCE and due to a shortage of wood in Orkney, the people of Skara Brae were forced to build with stone, a readily available material that could be worked easily and turned into items for use within the household. Each house shows a high degree of sophistication and was equipped with an extensive assortment of stone furniture, ranging from cupboards, dressers and beds to shelves, stone seats, and limpet tanks. The stone dresser was regarded as the most important as it symbolically faces the entrance in each house and is therefore the first item seen when entering, perhaps displaying symbolic objects, including decorative artwork such as several Neolithic Carved Stone Balls also found at the site.\n\nAncient furniture has been excavated from the 8th-century BCE Phrygian tumulus, the Midas Mound, in Gordion, Turkey. Pieces found here include tables and inlaid serving stands. There are also surviving works from the 9th-8th-century BCE Assyrian palace of Nimrud. The earliest surviving carpet, the Pazyryk Carpet was discovered in a frozen tomb in Siberia and has been dated between the 6th and 3rd century BCE.\n\nCivilisation in ancient Egypt began with the clearance and irrigation of land along the banks of the River Nile, which began in about 6000 BCE. By that time, society in the Nile Valley was already engaged in organized agriculture and the construction of large buildings. At this period, Egyptians in the southwestern corner of Egypt were herding cattle and also constructing large buildings. Mortar was in use by around 4000 BCE The inhabitants of the Nile Valley and delta were self-sufficient and were raising barley and emmer (an early variety of wheat) and stored it in pits lined with reed mats. They raised cattle, goats and pigs and they wove linens and baskets. Evidence of furniture from the predynastic period is scarce, but samples from First Dynasty tombs indicate an already advanced use of furnishings in the houses of the age.\n\nDuring the dynastic period, which began in around 3200 BCE, Egyptian art developed significantly, and this included furniture design. Egyptian furniture was primarily constructed using wood, but other materials were sometimes used, such as leather, and pieces were often adorned with gold, silver, ivory and ebony, for decoration. Wood found in Egypt was not suitable for furniture construction, so had to be imported into the country from other places, particularly Phoenicia. The scarcity of wood necessitated innovation in construction techniques. The use of scarf joints to join two shorter pieces together and form a longer beam was one example of this, as well as construction of veneers in which low quality cheap wood was used as the main building material, with a thin layer of expensive wood on the surface.\n\nThe earliest used seating furniture in the dynastic period was the stool, which was used throughout Egyptian society, from the royal family down to ordinary citizens. Various different designs were used, including stools with four vertical legs, and others with crossed splayed legs; almost all had rectangular seats, however. Examples include the workman's stool, a simple three legged structure with a concave seat, designed for comfort during labour, and the much more ornate folding stool, with crossed folding legs, which were decorated with carved duck heads and ivory, and had hinges made of bronze. Full chairs were much rarer in early Egypt, being limited to only wealthy and high ranking people, and seen as a status symbol; they did not reach ordinary households until the eighteenth dynasty. Early examples were formed by adding a straight back to a stool, while later chairs had an inclined back. Other furniture types in ancient Egypt include tables, which are heavily represented in art, but almost nonexistent as preserved items – perhaps because they were placed outside tombs rather than within, as well as beds and storage chests.\n\nHistorical knowledge of Greek furniture is derived from various sources, including literature, terracotta, sculptures, statuettes, and painted vases. Some pieces survive to this day, primarily those constructed from metals, including bronze, or marble. Wood was an important material in Greek furniture, both domestic and imported. A common technique was to construct the main sections of the furniture with cheap solid wood, then apply a veneer using an expensive wood, such as maple or ebony. Greek furniture construction also made use of dowels and tenons for joining the wooden parts of a piece together. Wood was shaped by carving, steam treatment, and the lathe, and furniture is known to have been decorated with ivory, tortoise shell, glass, gold or other precious materials.\nThe modern word “throne” is derived from the ancient Greek \"thronos\" (Greek singular: θρόνος), which was a seat designated for deities or individuals of high status or honor. The colossal chryselephantine statue of Zeus at Olympia, constructed by Phidias and lost in antiquity, featured the god Zeus seated on an elaborate throne, which was decorated with gold, precious stones, ebony and ivory, according to Pausanias. Other Greek seats included the \"klismos\", an elegant Greek chair with a curved backrest and legs whose form was copied by the Romans and is now part of the vocabulary of furniture design, the backless stool (diphros), which existed in most Greek homes, and folding stool. The kline, used from the late seventh century BCE, was a multipurpose piece used as a bed, but also as a sofa and for reclining during meals. It was rectangular and supported on four legs, two of which could be longer than the other, providing support for an armrest or headboard. Mattresses, rugs, and blankets may have been used, but there is no evidence for sheets.\n\nIn general, Greek tables were low and often appear in depictions alongside \"klinai\". The most common type of Greek table had a rectangular top supported on three legs, although numerous configurations exist, including trapezoid and circular. Tables in ancient Greece were used mostly for dining purposes – in depictions of banquets, it appears as though each participant would have utilized a single table, rather than a collective use of a larger piece. Tables also figured prominently in religious contexts, as indicated in vase paintings, for example, the wine vessel associated with Dionysus, dating to around 450 BCE and now housed at the Art Institute of Chicago. Chests were used for storage of clothes and personal items, and were usually rectangular with hinged lids. Chests depicted in terracotta show elaborate patterns and design, including the Greek fret.\n\nRoman furniture was based heavily on Greek furniture, in style and construction. In the last few centuries Rome gradually superseded Greece as the foremost culture of Europe, leading eventually to Greece becoming a province of Rome in 146 BCE. Rome thus took over production and distribution of Greek furniture, and the boundary between the two is blurred. The Romans did have some limited innovation outside of Greek influence, and styles distinctly their own.\n\nRoman furniture was constructed principally using wood, metal and stone, with marble and limestone used for outside furniture. Very little wooden furniture survives intact, but there is evidence that a variety of woods were used, including maple, citron, beech, oak, and holly. Some imported wood such as satinwood was used for decoration. The most commonly used metal was bronze, of which numerous examples have survived, for example, headrests for couches and metal stools. Similar to the Greeks, Romans used tenons, dowels, nails, and glue to join wooden pieces together, and also practised veneering.\n\nThe 1738 and 1748 excavations of Herculaneum and Pompeii revealed Roman furniture, preserved in the ashes of the AD 79 eruption of Vesuvius, to the eighteenth century.\n\nIn contrast to the ancient civilisations of Egypt, Greece, and Rome, we have comparatively little evidence of furniture from the 5th to the 15th century. Very few extant pieces survive, and evidence in literature is also scarce. It is likely that the style of furniture prevalent in late antiquity persisted throughout the middle ages. For example, a throne similar to that of Zeus is depicted in a sixth century diptych, while the Bayeux tapestry shows Edward the Confessor and Harold seated on seats similar to the Roman sella curulis.\n\nThe furniture of the Middle Ages was usually heavy, oak, and ornamented with carved designs. Along with the other arts, the Italian Renaissance of the fourteenth and fifteenth century marked a rebirth in design, often inspired by the Greco-Roman tradition. A similar explosion of design, and renaissance of culture in general occurred in Northern Europe, starting in the fifteenth century. The seventeenth century, in both Southern and Northern Europe, was characterized by opulent, often gilded Baroque designs that frequently incorporated a profusion of vegetal and scrolling ornament. Starting in the eighteenth century, furniture designs began to develop more rapidly. Although there were some styles that belonged primarily to one nation, such as Palladianism in Great Britain or Louis Quinze in French furniture, others, such as the Rococo and Neoclassicism were perpetuated throughout Western Europe.\n\nDuring the eighteenth century, the fashion was set in England by the French art. In the beginning of the century Boulle\n\ncabinets were at the peak of their popularity and Louis XIV was reigning in France. In this era, most of the furniture had metal and enamelled decorations in it and some of the furniture was covered in inlays of marbles lapis lazuli, and porphyry and other stones. By mid-century this Baroque style was displaced by the graceful curves, shining ormolu, and intricate marquetry of the Rococo style, which in turn gave way around 1770 to the more severe lines of Neoclassicism, modeled after the architecture of ancient Greece and Rome.\n\nThe nineteenth century is usually defined by concurrent revival styles, including Gothic, Neoclassicism, Rococo, and the EastHaven Movement. The design reforms of the late century introduced the Aesthetic movement and the Arts and Crafts movement. Art Nouveau was influenced by both of these movements.\n\nThis design was in many ways rooted in necessity and emphasizes both form and materials. Early American chairs and tables are often constructed with turned spindles and chair backs often constructed with steaming to bend the wood. Wood choices tend to be deciduous hardwoods with a particular emphasis on the wood of edible or fruit bearing trees such as cherry or walnut.\n\nThe first three-quarters of the twentieth century is often seen as the march towards Modernism. Art Deco, De Stijl, Bauhaus, Wiener Werkstätte, and Vienna Secession designers all worked to some degree within the Modernist idiom. Born from the Bauhaus and Art Deco/Streamline styles came the post WWII \"Mid-Century Modern\" style using materials developed during the war including laminated plywood, plastics, and fiberglass. Prime examples include furniture designed by George Nelson Associates, Charles and Ray Eames, Paul McCobb, Florence Knoll, Harry Bertoia, Eero Saarinen, Harvey Probber, Vladamir Kagan and Danish modern designers including Finn Juhl and Arne Jacobsen. Postmodern design, intersecting the Pop art movement, gained steam in the 1960s and 70s, promoted in the 80s by groups such as the Italy-based Memphis movement. Transitional furniture is intended to fill a place between Traditional and Modern tastes.\n\nGreat efforts from individuals, governments, and companies has led to the manufacturing of products with higher sustainability known as Ecodesign. This new line of furniture is based on environmentally friendly design. Its use and popularity are increasing each year.\n\nOne unique outgrowth of post-modern furniture design is Live edge, heralding a return to natural shapes and textures within the home.\n\nAsian furniture has a quite distinct history. The traditions out of India, China, Pakistan, Indonesia (Bali and Java) and Japan are some of the best known, but places such as Korea, Mongolia, and the countries of South East Asia have unique facets of their own.\n\nThe use of uncarved wood and bamboo and the use of heavy lacquers are well known Chinese styles. It is worth noting that Chinese furniture varies dramatically from one dynasty to the next.\n\nTraditional Japanese furniture is well known for its minimalist style, extensive use of wood, high-quality craftsmanship and reliance on wood grain instead of painting or thick lacquer. Japanese chests are known as Tansu, known for elaborate decorative iron work, and are some of the most sought-after of Japanese antiques. The antiques available generally date back to the Tokugawa and Meiji periods.\n\nSeating is amongst the oldest known furniture types, and authors including Encyclopædia Britannica regard it as the most important. In additional to the functional design, seating has had an important decorative element from ancient times to the present day. This includes carved and sculpted pieces intended as works of art, as well as the styling of seats to indicate social importance, with senior figures or leaders granted the use of specially designed seats.\n\nThe simplest form of seat is the chair, which is a piece of furniture designed to allow a single person to sit down, which has a back and legs, as well as a platform for sitting. Chairs often feature cushions made from various fabrics.\n\nAll different types of woods have unique signature marks that can help in easy identification of the type. Both hardwoods and softwoods are used in furniture manufacturing, and each has their own specific uses.\nMost commonly, quality furniture is made out of hardwood which is made from oak, maple, mahogany, teak, walnut, cherry and birch. Highest quality wood will have been air dried to rid it of its moisture.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "879901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=879901", "title": "Gaelic games", "text": "Gaelic games\n\nGaelic games are sports played in Ireland under the auspices of the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA). Gaelic football and hurling are the two main games. Other games organised by the GAA include Gaelic handball (also referred to as GAA Handball or Wallball) and rounders.\n\nWomen's versions of hurling and football are also played: camogie, organised by the Camogie Association of Ireland, and ladies' Gaelic football, organised by the Ladies' Gaelic Football Association. While women's versions are not organised by the GAA, they are closely associated with it.\n\nAlmost a million people (977,723) attended 45 GAA senior championships games in 2017 (up 29% in hurling and 22% in football on 2016 figures) combined with attendances at other championship and league games generating Gate receipts of €34,391,635 .\n\nGaelic football is played by teams of 15 on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped goals at each end. The primary object is to score by driving the ball through the goals, which is known as a goal (worth 3 points), or by kicking the ball over the bar, which is known as a point (worth 1 point). The team with the highest point score at the end of the match wins. The female version of the game is known as ladies' Gaelic football and is similar to the men's game with a few minor rule changes. Other formats with teams of 7 to 11 players are played in Europe, Middle East, Asia, Argentina and South Africa utilising smaller soccer or rugby pitches .\n\nHurling is a stick and ball game played by teams of 15 on a rectangular grass pitch with H-shaped goals at each end. The primary object is to score by driving the ball through the goals or putting the ball over the bar and thereby scoring a point. Three points is the equivalent of a goal. The team with the highest score at the end of the match wins. It is over three thousand years old, and is said to be the world's fastest field game, combining skills from lacrosse, field hockey, and baseball in a hard-hitting, highly skilled game. The female version of the game is known as camogie and is very similar to hurling with a few minor rule changes. Other formats with teams of 7 to 11 players are played in Europe, Middle East, Asia, Argentina and South Africa utilising smaller soccer or rugby pitches .\n\nGaelic handball is a game in which two players use their hands to return a ball against a wall. The game is similar to American handball. There are three codes of handball: 60x30, 40x20 and One Wall. One Wall handball is the most popular international version of handball with it being played in over 30 countries. It is hoped by GAA Handball that this version of handball will become an Olympic sport. The sport of handball is governed by GAA Handball in Ireland.\n\nRounders is a bat and ball game which is played in Ireland; a similar version is played in England. Rounders is the least popular of the GAA Gaelic games and is organised by a subdivision of the GAA known as the Rounders Council of Ireland. It is similar to softball.\n\nOther Gaelic games such as Gaelic athletics have nearly or completely died out. When founded the GAA organised a number of Gaelic athletics competitions but passed the responsibility to the National Athletic and Cycling Association in 1922. Tailteann Games with Gaelic athletics were held until 1932.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "245808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=245808", "title": "Golden Legend", "text": "Golden Legend\n\nThe Golden Legend (Latin: \"Legenda aurea\" or \"Legenda sanctorum\") is a collection of hagiographies by Blessed Jacobus de Varagine that was widely read in late medieval Europe. More than a thousand manuscripts of the text have survived. It was likely compiled around the year 1260, although the text was added to over the centuries.\n\nInitially entitled \"Legenda sanctorum\" (\"Readings of the Saints\"), it gained its popularity under the title by which it is best known. It overtook and eclipsed earlier compilations of abridged legendaria, the \"Abbreviatio in gestis et miraculis sanctorum\" attributed to the Dominican chronicler Jean de Mailly and the \"Epilogus in gestis sanctorum\" of the Dominican preacher Bartholomew of Trent. Over eight hundred manuscript copies of the work survive, and when printing was invented in the 1450s, editions appeared quickly, not only in Latin, but also in every major European language. Among \"incunabula\", printed before 1501, \"Legenda aurea\" was printed in more editions than the Bible. It was one of the first books William Caxton printed in the English language; Caxton's version appeared in 1483 and his translation was reprinted, reaching a ninth edition in 1527. \n\nWritten in simple, readable Latin, the book was read in its day for its stories. The book is considered the closest to an encyclopaedia of medieval saint lore that survives today; as such it is invaluable to art historians and medievalists who seek to identify saints depicted in art by their deeds and attributes. Its repetitious nature is explained if Jacobus da Varagine meant to write a compendium of saintly lore for sermons and preaching, not a work of popular entertainment.\n\nThe book sought to compile traditional lore about all of the saints venerated at the time of its compilation. Jacobus da Varagine typically begins with an (often fanciful) etymology for the saint's name. An example (in Caxton's translation) shows his method:\n\nAs a Latin author, Jacobus da Varagine must have known that \"Silvester\", a relatively common Latin name, simply meant \"from the forest\". The correct derivation is alluded to in the text, but set out in parallel to fanciful ones that lexicographers would consider quite wide of the mark. Even the \"correct\" explanations (\"silvas\", \"forest\", and the mention of green boughs) are used as the basis for an allegorical interpretation. Jacobus da Varagine's etymologies had different goals from modern etymologies, and cannot be judged by the same standards. Jacobus' etymologies have parallels in Isidore of Seville's \"Etymologiae\", in which linguistically accurate derivations are set out beside allegorical and figurative explanations.\n\nJacobus da Varagine then moves on to the saint's life, compiled with reference to the readings from the Roman Catholic Church's liturgy commemorating that saint; then embellishes the biography with supernatural tales of incidents involving the saint's life.\n\nThe chapter \"St Pelagius, Pope and the History of the Lombards\" begins with the story of St Pelagius, then proceeds to touch upon events surrounding the origin and history of the Lombards in Europe leading up to the 7th century when the story of Muhammad begins. The story then goes on to describe \"Magumeth (Mahomet, Muhammad)\" as \"a false prophet and sorcerer\", detailing his early life and travels as a merchant through his marriage to the widow, Khadija and goes on to suggest his \"visions\" came as a result of epileptic seizures and the interventions of a renegade Nestorian monk named Sergius. The chapter conveys the medieval Christian understanding of the beliefs of Saracens and other Muslims.\n\nMany of the stories also conclude with miracle tales and similar wonderlore from accounts of those who called upon that saint for aid or used the saint's relics. Such a tale is told of Saint Agatha; Jacobus da Varagine has pagans in Catania repairing to the relics of St. Agatha to supernaturally repel an eruption of Mount Etna:\n\nAnd for to prove that she had prayed for the salvation of the country, at the beginning of February, the year after her martyrdom, there arose a great fire, and came from the mountain toward the city of Catania and burnt the earth and stones, it was so fervent. Then ran the paynims to the sepulchre of S. Agatha and took the cloth that lay upon her tomb, and held it abroad against the fire, and anon on the ninth day after, which was the day of her feast, ceased the fire as soon as it came to the cloth that they brought from her tomb, showing that our Lord kept the city from the said fire by the merits of S. Agatha.\n\nA substantial portion of Jacobus' text was drawn from two epitomes of collected lives of the saints, both also arranged in the order of the liturgical year, written by members of his Dominican order: one is Jean de Mailly's lengthy \"Abbreviatio in gestis et miraculis sanctorum\" (\"Summary of the Deeds and Miracles of the Saints\") and the other is Bartholomew of Trent's \"Epilogum in gesta sanctorum\" (\"Afterword on the Deeds of the Saints\"). The many extended parallels to text found in Vincent de Beauvais' \"Speculum historiale\", the main encyclopedia that was used in the Middle Ages, are attributed by modern scholars to the two authors' common compilation of identical sources, rather than to Jacobus' reading Vincent's encyclopedia. More than 130 more distant sources have been identified for the tales related of the saints in the \"Golden Legend\", few of which have a nucleus in the New Testament itself; these hagiographic sources include apocryphal texts such as the \"Gospel of Nicodemus\", and the histories of Gregory of Tours and John Cassian. Many of his stories have no other known source. A typical example of the sort of story related, also involving St. Silvester, shows the saint receiving miraculous instruction from Saint Peter in a vision that enables him to exorcise a dragon:\n\nIn this time it happed that there was at Rome a dragon in a pit, which every day slew with his breath more than three hundred men. Then came the bishops of the idols unto the emperor and said unto him: O thou most holy emperor, sith the time that thou hast received Christian faith the dragon which is in yonder fosse or pit slayeth every day with his breath more than three hundred men. Then sent the emperor for S. Silvester and asked counsel of him of this matter. S. Silvester answered that by the might of God he promised to make him cease of his hurt and blessure of this people. Then S. Silvester put himself to prayer, and S. Peter appeared to him and said: \"Go surely to the dragon and the two priests that be with thee take in thy company, and when thou shalt come to him thou shalt say to him in this manner: Our Lord Jesus Christ which was born of the Virgin Mary, crucified, buried and arose, and now sitteth on the right side of the Father, this is he that shall come to deem and judge the living and the dead, I commend thee Sathanas that thou abide him in this place till he come. Then thou shalt bind his mouth with a thread, and seal it with thy seal, wherein is the imprint of the cross. Then thou and the two priests shall come to me whole and safe, and such bread as I shall make ready for you ye shall eat.Thus as S. Peter had said, S. Silvester did. And when he came to the pit, he descended down one hundred and fifty steps, bearing with him two lanterns, and found the dragon, and said the words that S. Peter had said to him, and bound his mouth with the thread, and sealed it, and after returned, and as he came upward again he met with two enchanters which followed him for to see if he descended, which were almost dead of the stench of the dragon, whom he brought with him whole and sound, which anon were baptized, with a great multitude of people with them. Thus was the city of Rome delivered from double death, that was from the culture and worshiping of false idols, and from the venom of the dragon.\n\nJacobus had his limits; he describes the story of Saint Margaret of Antioch surviving being swallowed by a dragon as \"apocryphal and not to be taken seriously\" (trans. Ryan, 1.369).\n\nThe adverse reaction to \"Legenda aurea\" under critical scrutiny in the 16th century was led by scholars who reexamined the criteria for judging hagiographic sources and found \"Legenda aurea\" wanting; prominent among the humanists were two disciples of Erasmus, Georg Witzel, in the preface to his \"Hagiologium\", and Juan Luis Vives in \"De disciplinis\". Criticism among members of Jacobus' Dominican order were muted by the increased reverence towards the archbishop, which culminated in his beatification in 1815. The rehabilitation of \"Legenda aurea\" in the 20th century, now interpreted as a mirror of the heartfelt pieties of the 13th century, is attributed to Téodor de Wyzewa, whose retranslation into French, and its preface, have been often reprinted.\n\nThe critical edition of the Latin text has been edited by Giovanni Paolo Maggioni (Florence: SISMEL 1998). In 1900, the Caxton version was updated into more modern English by Frederick Startridge Ellis, and published in seven volumes. Jacobus da Varagine's original was translated into French around the same time by Téodor de Wyzewa. A modern English translation of the \"Golden Legend\" has been published by William Granger Ryan, and (2 volumes).\n\nA modern translation of the \"Golden Legend\" is available from Fordham University's Medieval Sourcebook.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2652781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2652781", "title": "Gothicism", "text": "Gothicism\n\nGothicism or Gothism (; ) was a cultural movement in Sweden, centered on the belief in the glory of the Swedish Geats, who were identified with the Goths. The founders of the movement were Nicolaus Ragvaldi and the brothers Johannes and Olaus Magnus. The belief continued to hold power in the 17th century, when Sweden was a great power following the Thirty Years' War, but lost most of its sway in the 18th. It was renewed by the Viking revival and Romantic nationalism in the early 19th century, this time with the Vikings as heroic figures.\n\nThe name is derived from the Gothicists' belief that the Goths had originated from Sweden, based on Jordanes' account of a Gothic \"urheimat\" in Scandinavia (Scandza). The Gothicists took pride in the Gothic tradition that the Ostrogoths and their king Theodoric the Great, who assumed power in the Roman Empire, had Scandinavian ancestry. This pride was expressed as early as the medieval chronicles, where chroniclers wrote about the Goths as the ancestors of the Scandinavians, and the idea was used by Nicolaus Ragvaldi at the Council of Basel to argue that the Swedish monarchy was the foremost in Europe. It also permeated the writings of the Swedish writer Johannes Magnus (\"Historia de omnibus gothorum sueonumque regibus\") as well as those of his brother Olaus Magnus (\"Historia de gentibus septentrionalibus\"). Both had a strong influence on contemporary scholarship in Sweden.\n\nSome scholars in Denmark attempted to identify the Goths with the Jutes; however, these ideas did not lead to the same widespread cultural movement in Danish society as it did in the Swedish. In contrast with the Swedes, the Danes of this era did not forward claims to political legitimacy based on assertions that their country was the original homeland of the Goths or that the conquest of the Roman Empire was proof of their own country's military valour and power through history.\n\nDuring the 17th century, Danes and Swedes competed for the collection and publication of Icelandic manuscripts, Norse sagas, and the two \"Eddas\". In Sweden, the Icelandic manuscripts became part of an origin myth and were seen as proof that the greatness and heroism of the ancient Geats had been passed down through the generations to the current population. This pride culminated in the publication of Olaus Rudbeck's treatise \"Atland eller Manheim\" (1679–1702), in which he claimed that Sweden was identical to Atlantis.\n\nDuring the 18th century, Swedish Gothicism had sobered somewhat, but it revived during the period of Romantic nationalism from 1800 onwards, with Erik Gustaf Geijer and Esaias Tegnér in the Geatish Society.\n\nIn Denmark, Romantic nationalism led writers such as Johannes Ewald, N. F. S. Grundtvig (whose translation of \"Beowulf\" into Danish was the first into a modern language) and Adam Gottlob Oehlenschläger to take a renewed interest in Old Norse subjects. In other parts of Europe, interest in Norse mythology, history and language was represented by the Englishmen Thomas Gray, John Keats and William Wordsworth, and the Germans Johann Gottfried Herder and Friedrich Gottlieb Klopstock.\n\nIn Scandinavian architecture, Gothicism had its prime in the 1860s and 1870s, but it continued until 1900. The interest in Old Norse subjects led to the creation of a special architecture in wood inspired by stave churches, and it was in Norway that the style had its largest impact. The details that are often found in this style are dragon heads, from which it is often called \"dragon style\", false arcades, lathed colonnades, protruding lofts and a ridged roof.\n\n"}
{"id": "26151782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26151782", "title": "Gros (coinage)", "text": "Gros (coinage)\n\nA gros was a type of silver coinage of France from the time of Saint Louis. There were \"gros tournois\" and \"gros parisis\". The \"gros\" was sub-divided in \"half gros\" and \"quarter gros\". The original gros created by St Louis weighed about 4.52 g of nearly pure silver, and was valued at one sou, that is 12 deniers or 1/20 of a livre tournois. Unlike the gold écu that was minted in small numbers, mostly for prestige reasons, the gros was a very common coin, and very widely copied by non royal mints.\n"}
{"id": "25974084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25974084", "title": "Guatitas", "text": "Guatitas\n\nGuatitas (\"[little] guts\" or \"[little] bellies\", from ; \"Gut/Belly\"), or guatitas criollas, is a popular dish in Chile and in Ecuador, where it is considered a national dish.\n\nGuatitas is essentially a stew whose main ingredient is pieces of tripe (cow stomach), known locally as \"guatitas\". The tripe is often cleaned several times in a lemon-juice brine, after which it is cooked for a long time until the meat is tender. Then it is allowed to cool and finely chopped. There are various vegetarian versions of the dish in which wheat gluten is substituted for tripe. Other variations use strong-tasting fish such as tuna. The traditional Ecuadorian recipe is served hot and accompanied by potatoes and a peanut sauce.\n\nThe dish is often considered an acquired taste. Because of its strong taste, it is sometimes served in small quantities.\n\nIn Ecuador, it is believed that guatita helps relieve hangover symptoms. For this reason, it is often served by restaurants early on Saturday and Sunday mornings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3822302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3822302", "title": "Huipil", "text": "Huipil\n\nHuipil (from the Nahuatl word \"huīpīlli\" ) is the most common traditional garment worn by indigenous women from central Mexico to Central America.\n\nIt is a loose-fitting tunic, generally made from two or three rectangular pieces of fabric which are then joined together with stitching, ribbons or fabric strips, with an opening for the head and, if the sides are sewn, openings for the arms. Traditional huipils, especially ceremonial ones, are usually made with fabric woven on a backstrap loom and are heavily decorated with designs woven into the fabric, embroidery, ribbons, lace and more. However, some huipils are also made from commercial fabric.\n\nLengths of the huipil can vary from a short blouse-like garment or long enough to reach the floor. The style of traditional huipils generally indicates the ethnicity and community of the wearer as each have their own methods of creating the fabric and decorations. Some huipils have intricate and meaningful designs. Ceremonial huipils are the most elaborate and are reserved for weddings, burials, women of high rank and even to dress the statues of saints.\n\nThe huipil has been worn by indigenous women of the Mesoamerican region (central Mexico into Central America) of both high and low social rank since well before the arrival of the Spanish to the Americas. It remains the most common female indigenous garment still in use.\n\nIt is most often seen in the Mexican states of Chiapas, Yucatán, Quintana Roo, Oaxaca, Tabasco, Campeche, Hidalgo, Michoacán (where it is called a \"huanengo\"), Veracruz and Morelos . In Central America it is most often used among the Mayas in Guatemala.\n\nAfter the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire and subsequent Spanish expansion, the huipil endured but it evolved, incorporating elements from other regions and Europe. One of the oldest known huipils in existence is the \"La Malinche\", named such because it was believed to have been worn by Hernán Cortés’ interpreter as it looks much like ones in depictions of her in the Lienzo de Tlaxcala and the Florentine Codex. However, carbon 14 tests date it to the 18th century. It is exceptional not only for its age but there is none like it in any collection and it is larger than usual at 120 by 140 cm. It is made of cotton with feathers, wax and gold thread. The design is dominated by an image of a double headed eagle, showing both indigenous and Spanish influence. It is part of the collection of the \"Museo Nacional de Antropología\".\n\nSome huipils, such as those from the Isthmus of Tehuantepec show Asian influence due to cloth brought from the Philippines . In addition, the huipil began to be worn with other garments, especially European skirts, during the colonial period. This led to changes in the garment itself and how it was used. In some cases, the huipil became shorter, to function as a kind of blouse rather than a dress. In the same region, the huipil also evolved into a long flowing and sometimes voluminous head covering which frames the face.\n\nTo this day, the most traditional huipils are made with hand woven cloth on a back strap loom. However, the introduction of commercial fabric made this costly and many indigenous women stopped making this fabric, or making simpler versions. By the early 1800s, women began to wear undecorated huipils or European style blouses. By the end of the 19th century, most Maya women had forgotten the technique of brocade weaving entirely.\n\nThe huipil endures in many indigenous communities, if not as an everyday garment, as one for ceremonies or special occasions. When a woman puts on a huipil, especially a ceremonial or very traditional one, it is a kind of ritual. She becomes the center of a symbolic world as her head passes through the neck opening. With her arms, she forms a cross and is surrounded by myth as between heaven and the underworld.\n\nThe huipil is a tunic-like garment made by stitching together anywhere from one to five pieces of cloth. The most common fiber is cotton, but there are those made from wool and silk as well. Most huipils are made from two or three pieces, which are usually the same size, with one exception being those from the highlands of Chiapas, where the center piece is wider than the side ones. The panels are not sewn together in the normal sense with seams but rather they are joined using ribbons, small strips of cloth or complicated stitching which has the edges of the panels touching or almost touching. This adds a layer of decoration to the garment.\n\nMost classic huipils are wider than they are long although there has been a reduction in width in recent years. Huipils can be as short as waist length or can reach to the ankles or anywhere in between, but most fall just above or just below the knee. Long or short, it is not designed to be a close-fitting garment. The neckline can be round, oval, square or a simple slit. Most are sewn on the sides, leaving an opening in the upper part for the arms to pass through. Some huipils are not sewn on the sides, especially the very short ones.\nWhile huipils today are made from commercial cloth, the most traditional are made from hand woven fabric made on a backstrap loom. The pieces to be used to make the huipil are woven to size and are never cut. Despite its simplicity, the backstrap loom permits more types of techniques and designs to be woven into the cloth than other types of looms. Most of the hand woven fabric have designs woven into them, especially cloth destined for ceremonial huipils. The decorative elements can signify history, cultural identity, something personal about the wearer and more. Since most indigenous come from agricultural societies, clothing designs generally relate to the natural world. The most complicated designs are generally known only to a few older master weavers. In addition to designs embedded into the fabric, other decorative elements can include embroidery, ribbon, feathers, lace and more.\n\nThe making of traditional huipils is an important cultural and economic activity for the Amuzgos, especially in Xochistlahuaca where most people still wear traditional clothing. Girls begin learning the craft when they are young, learning techniques and designs from their mothers and grandmothers. The weaving is an important source of income as agriculture is not enough to meet most families’ needs. While they work on other items such as tablecloths and other items of clothing, the most popular and most valued remains the huipil. Amuzgo women have achieved a certain level of fame, with weavers such as Florentina López de Jesús winning recognition at the 2001 UNESCO handcraft competition for Latin America and Caribbean.\n\nTraditional huipils generally identify the indigenous group and a community of the wearer as each has its own designs for both weaving and embroidering. Some communities, such as Jamiltepec in Oaxaca, have a taboo against huipils made there being worn by women from other areas.\n\nExcept for very long huipils, they are generally worn with other items of clothing such as a skirt or slip. Most huipils hang loose but some can be tied at the waist or can be tucked into a skirt like a blouse. In some cases, such as in San Juan Copala, Oaxaca, the extra length of the huipil is rolled up onto the waist when worn with a skirt.\n\nWomen commonly have an everyday huipil and those worn only on special occasions such as weddings. Decorative elements are often arranged in horizontal bands but those with vertical orientation are found as well. In a number of indigenous communities, extravagant huipils made for a woman’s wedding is then carefully put away and stored to be used later for her funeral. In others, a special huipil is begun when a woman reaches a certain age for this purpose. Ceremonial huipils are also made to dress images of saints. During festivals, these saints can be dressed in many layers of huipils, giving them a fattened appearance.\n\nCuetzalan, Puebla has an annual coffee and huipil festival called the Feria del Huipil y Café, which began in 1949.\n\nThe garment is common among the various Mayan groups. For Mayan women in Guatemala, huipil designs on the front back and shoulders can identify which type of Maya and from what community. Mayan ceremonial huipils are worn only by the statues of saints and the wives of religious officials.\n\nChinanteca huipils are elaborate with the entire garment covered in woven and embroidered geometric designs in various colors, with the edges further decorated with ribbons. In Ojitlán, Oaxaca, Chinanteca women wear special huipils for their wedding, divided into three classes. The first is called “gala” or “red” which used to be the traditional wedding dress. However, because of its cost, few families can afford it. The second type is called “pavo” which is used for special occasions. It is similar to the first but with a less intense red and with smaller designs. The third type, called “pájaros y palomas” (birds and doves) is the most economical of the three and can be found fairly easily in markets. It is white with figures of birds and other animals in vivid and contrasting colors. This used to be reserved for women of middle age or older but it has since been adopted by many.\n\nThe indigenous women of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec are known for wearing two huipils. The first is a short velvet huipil with is heavily embroidered with floral motifs and a second one special occasion, usually white, which frames the face then extends over the head covering the neck and shoulders. The blouse huipil has a length of only about 60 cm and shows modern, European and even Asian influence and is generally worn with a voluminous European style skirt which is also heavily decorated. The head covering is called a “huipil de tapar” (covering huipil) or a bidaniro.\n\nThe huipils of Santa María Magdalena, Chiapas are rich in symbolism with images of gods, flowers, frogs and other images with mythological importance. It also includes a set of symbols which serve as a kind of signature of the weaver. The ceremonial huipil of Magdalenas has designs that represent the universe in the form of a cross with east represented on the right shoulder and west on the left. The south is represented on the chest and north on the back. Upon dressing, the woman becomes the center of the universe. This huipil is used only by women of the highest social rank and it is also used to dress statues of saints.\n\nAmuzgo huipils are made with brocade fabric. Amuzgo huipils have a sophisticated set of designs based on animals, plants, geometric shapes and more. Some of the designs are not obvious, such as the use of two connected triangles to represent butterflies, but all have a particular significance.\n\nThe ceremonial huipil of Zinacantán, Chiapas is also distinguished by its manufacture and symbolism. It is made of white cotton with a square neckline or with a vertical opening with a button fastener. The chest area is marked off with a red line inside of which are white chicken feathers delicately fastened with white, blue or green thread. The lower border has fringe made of the same materials and colors. It is the only garment in Mexico which uses the pre Hispanic art of featherwork today. This huipil is often used for weddings as it is believed that it ensures a good marriage. Other white wedding huipils are found in Pinotepa Nacional, Chopan and Cotzocón in Oaxaca. In Pinotepa Nacional, decorative elements include animals, flowers, human figures, fretwork, moons, suns, fish and insects.\n\nThe ceremonial huipils of the Tzotzils have maintained aspects of pre Hispanic feather art with white feathers found on the chest and lower hem.\n\nIn Ocotepec and Cuquila in Oaxaca, which are high in the Mixtec mountains, there are huipils made of wool to combat the cold with cotton ones usually for festive occasions.\n\nYalaltec huipils in Oaxaca are very simple with decoration only on a chest and back panel with various colors and some fringe.\n"}
{"id": "3659718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3659718", "title": "Information held under Section 142 of the Education Act 2002", "text": "Information held under Section 142 of the Education Act 2002\n\nList 99 (also known as the Children’s Barred List and, later, as information held under Section 142 of the Education Act 2002) was a controversial, confidential register of people barred from working with children by the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) In the United Kingdom. The list contained the names, dates of birth, aliases, and national insurance numbers of those people deemed not suitable to work with children in schools, social work and voluntary settings.\n\nIn 1955, the list that came to be called List 99 was started by the Home Office Consultancy Service.\n\nThe Bichard Enquiry (2003) resulted in a report (2004) that noted shortcomings in the use of List 99.\n\nAs of 2007, List 99 contained approximately 5000 names.\n\nIn January or October 2009, List 99 and some other, similar lists, were replaced by the Children's Barred List, which was created under the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 and which was maintained by the Independent Safeguarding Authority (ISA).\n\nThe ISA merged with the Criminal Records Bureau in 2012 to form the Disclosure and Barring Service.\n\nUnder the Protection of Children Act 1999, people were placed onto List 99 if they had been convicted of, or had received a caution for, an offence against a child.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, List 99 was not primarily concerned with child protection, but section 142 allows the Secretary of State to prohibit certain persons from working in schools. Section 143 prohibits a person from arranging to hire any other person who is\nsubject to a direction under section 142 to work in a school.\n\nAdults convicted of serious sexual offences committed against children under the age of 16 since 1995 were automatically placed on List 99. Additional reasons for inclusion were sexual or violent behaviour towards children, abuses of trust, drug offences, any violent crime (for example, conviction of rioting or football hooliganism), stealing school property and deception in job applications. Medical conditions such as drug or alcohol abuse and mental illness were grounds for exclusion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7160538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7160538", "title": "Interdiscourse", "text": "Interdiscourse\n\nInterdiscourse is the implicit or explicit relations that a discourse has to other discourses. Interdiscursivity is the aspect of a discourse that relates it to other discourses. Norman Fairclough prefers the concept \"orders of discourse\". Interdiscursivity is often mostly an analytic concept, e.g. in Foucault and Fairclough. Interdiscursivity has close affinity to recontextualisation because interdiscourse often implies that elements are imported from another discourse.\n\nThe meaning of interdiscourse varies. It denotes at least three levels:\n\n\nAn example (where 1. corresponds to a., etc.) illustrates the three levels: A minister of environment speaks in the parliament about a proposal.\n\n\nThe example illustrates that 2. and 3. are specific cases of 1, in the sense a-c all relate to another discourse. To avoid this, level 1. might be defined as relations to other discourses \"within\" the same discursive formation and type of discourse. Consequently, the definition of the levels depends on the definition of discursive formation and types of discourse, and the three levels may collapse to the extent that these concepts are not conceived. In short, the stratification of interdiscourse depends on the stratification of discourse.\n\nLevel 2. and 3. may be conceived as particularly salient. This is explained in Marc Angenot and Bruce by reference to Bakhtin: In Bakhtin's dialogism, the utterance is the natural meaningful and finalised unit of speech, which others are supposed to respond to, that is, others \"interpret the utterance by situating it in a discursive context\". But, an utterance may be interpreted (contextualised) in various ways, and interdiscourse and interdiscursivity denote how certain such interpretations (and relations to other discourses) are socially more privileged than others. Since interdiscourse privileges certain interpretations, it has a close affinity to the concepts of ideology, hegemony and power (sociology). For Bakhtin/Voloshinov, signs are a reality that refracts another reality, that is, signs are ideological. Therefore, the embedding of a discourse in an interdiscourse is an ideological interpretation of the discourse.\n\nIn Michel Foucault, interdiscursivity is not bound to ideology, but is a more open concept for analysing relations between discursive formations, that is, mapping their interdiscursive configuration. Such analyses constitute a part of his discourse analysis.\n\nThe cogent and restrictive character of the interdiscourse is reflected in the concept of the \"primacy of interdiscourse\". The interdiscourse is the sayable, the opposite of what cannot be enunciated (l'inénoncable). But, the interdiscourse has also primacy in the sense that it \"defines the relations between discursive entities (or formations) that are constitutive of the discursive entities\". What is acceptable discourse, is in many respects a matter of interdiscursivity at level 2 and 3, because the interdiscursive import and export relations constitute a worksharing between the discursive entities, and this frames what is acceptable discourse within each discursive entity: Generally, a discourse has little authority over what other discourses are assumed to speak of and will therefore accept imported form and content from the other discourses. On the other hand, when a discourse exports content to other discourses, there are expectations as to the exported form and content. Thus, the interdiscursive system shapes the discourses.\n\n"}
{"id": "40704994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40704994", "title": "Johannes Quack", "text": "Johannes Quack\n\nJohannes Quack is an ethnologist at the Goethe University Frankfurt whose primary field of study is religion.\n\nHe is also the head of the Emmy Noether Research Group “Diversity of Non-Religiosity” at the Goethe University Frankfurt. He has researched non-religious and rationalist organisations in India. He received the Max Weber Award from the Max Weber Center for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies at the University of Erfurt for his work “Disenchanting India: Organized Rationalism and Criticism on Religion in India”.\n\nQuack studied religious studies, anthropology and philosophy at the University of Bayreuth. Later, he taught anthropology and religious studies at the University of Heidelberg, Lucerne, Münster, Tübingen and Munich. He used to work at the Cluster of Excellence: Asia and Europe in a Global Context, Heidelberg University as a post-doctoral researcher and McGill University in Montreal as a research fellow.\n\nHis field of research includes religion, Hindu traditions, ritual theory, criticism of religion, and mental illness. He has done field work in India about religious tourism, non-religious group and psychosocial problems.\n\nBooks\n\nPeer-reviewed papers\n\nArticles\n\n"}
{"id": "3192672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3192672", "title": "Kiseru", "text": "Kiseru\n\nTypically the mouth piece and bowl are made from metal, with a tubular shaft of wood or bamboo stretching in between. The bowl is much smaller than that of western-style pipes. Because each kiseru is basically a rod with metal ends, extremely long kiseru could be carried as weapons, especially by the gangster-like kabukimono samurai of Edo period Japan. Many kiseru have been engraved with elaborate details by skilled artisans and were a status symbol for the owner.\n\nTobacco has been known in Japan since the 1570s at the earliest. By the early 17th century, kiseru had become popular enough to even be mentioned in some Buddhist textbooks for children. The kiseru evolved along with the equipment and use of incense associated with the Japanese incense ceremony: kōdō:\nDuring a smoking session, the smoker would put a ball of stringy \"kizami\" tobacco in the bowl, light it at the charcoal fire, then dump the ash into the ash container.\n\nDuring the Edo period weapons were frequently used as objects to flaunt one's financial status. Since commoners were prohibited to carry sharper weapons, an elaborate kiseru carried slung from the waist often served the purpose. After the Meiji restoration and the abolishment of the caste system, many craftsmen who previously had worked on decorating swords moved on to designing kiseru and netsuke for tobacco pouches. \n\nThe word \"kiseru\" today is more commonly used to refer to the practice of defrauding the railway system by buying two cheap tickets to get past the entrance and exit gates while not paying for the distance between them. This is likened to a kiseru as there is only metal at the ends, and nothing in the middle, a metaphor indicating that money (metal) only covers the beginning and end.\n\n"}
{"id": "1339298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339298", "title": "Legendz", "text": "Legendz\n\nThe Legendz anime moves away from the Pokémon-esque \"gotta catch em all\" theme and monster training aspects and deals more with the overall background of the monster characters and their story. The Legendz anime opens with the discovery of the \"Soul Dolls\" which contain legendary creatures of incredible power within them. The Dark Wiz company (DWC) wants access to all of them for unknown reasons, but four of the Soul Dolls go missing. The majority of the anime takes place in Brooklyn, New York City, with the Brooklyn Bridge as a much-featured landmark.\n\nThe Legendz manga was written by Rin Hirai and illustrated by Makoto Haruno. The manga was originally published in Shueisha's \"Monthly Shonen Jump\" from 2003 – 2005. The series was translated and adapted into English by Viz Media and released in four volumes with the first release in March 2005.\n\nThe story is about Ken Kazaki, a boy who attends Ryudo Elementary School. Together with Shiron, his faithful Windragon, fights with other people who like him breed monsters. Ken later participates in the Legendz Carnival.\n\nThe anime was directed by Akitaro Daichi with character designs by Nagisa Miyazaki. The animation was produced by Studio Gallop. The sound director was Kazuya Tanaka. The anime had only one opening theme, by Kyoko. The two ending themes are by Brenda Vaughn, from episode 1 through 37 and another version performed by Linda Yamamoto from 38-49. The anime ran on Fuji TV and Animax in Japan. The final episode aired on Fuji TV on March 27, 2005.\n\n is a Game Boy Advance game that was produced by Bandai Co., Ltd. and released on July 29, 2004. The video game includes a unique accessory to \"Reborn\" the Legendz with a link cable connected to the \"Soul Doll\". Using the dedicated adapter, the Legendz can adventure automatically and the player can view these events as flashbacks. The game also provided growth of the Legendz through sharing with other players.\n\nThe video game, is an action game for the PlayStation 2, originally released on December 16, 2004. Produced by Bandai Co., Ltd., it has a CERO rating for \"All ages\" and supports two player play. The game features more than 60 Legendz that the player uses to battle.\n\nThe third Legendz game to be released is , a Game Boy Advance game that was produced by Bandai Co., Ltd. and released on February 17, 2005. The game requires the \"Soul Doll\" adapter, two versions were sold; one for players who already have the \"Legendz: Island of Ordeal\" and one which included the Soul Doll adapter. The game included the ability to \"rewrite the IC data\" to allow the player to create their own Legendz.\n\n\"\" makes note of the similarities to \"Dragon Drive\" in the introduction of Shu and Shiron. It also notes the similarities to \"Pokémon\" except with dragons and director Daichi's \"stylistic similarities\" to \"Grrl Power\".\nThe manga review compendium \"Manga: The Complete Guide\" praised the \"elaborate universe\" and \"quirky artwork\", but noted that the creatures were \"bland\".\n\n"}
{"id": "54251016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54251016", "title": "List of academic fields", "text": "List of academic fields\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of an topical guide to academic disciplines:\n\nAn academic discipline or field of study is known as a branch of knowledge. It is taught as an accredited part of higher education. A scholar's discipline is commonly defined and recognized by a university faculties. That person will be accredited by learned societies to which he or she belongs along with the academic journals in which he or she publishes. However, no formal criteria exist for defining an academic discipline.\n\nDisciplines varies between universities and programs. These discipline will have well-defined rosters of journals and conferences supported by a few universities and publications. A discipline may have branches, that are called sub-disciplines.\n\nThere is no consensus on how some academic disciplines should be classified (e.g., whether anthropology and linguistics are disciplines of social sciences or fields within the humanities). More generally, the proper criteria for organizing knowledge into disciplines are also open to debate.\n\nHistory of academic disciplines – academic disciplines arose from learning institutions as those grew to include specialized faculties or departments \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Also a branch of electrical engineering\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nChemical Engineering\n\nCivil Engineering\n\nElectrical Engineering\nMaterials Science and Engineering\n\nMechanical Engineering\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3389561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3389561", "title": "List of film director and composer collaborations", "text": "List of film director and composer collaborations\n\n\nJ. J. Abrams\n\n\nLenny Abrahamson\nAndrew Adamson\nBen Affleck\nAlan Alda\nRobert Aldrich\n\n\nIrwin Allen\nPedro Almodóvar\nRobert Altman\n\n\nFede Alvarez\nJon Amiel\nBrad Anderson\nGerry Anderson\nPaul Thomas Anderson\n\n\nWes Anderson\n\n\nMichael Anderson\n\nTheo Angelopoulos\nJean-Jacques Annaud\nMichelangelo Antonioni\nJudd Apatow\nMichael Apted\n\n\nTetsuro Araki\nDario Argento\n\n\nGillian Armstrong\nDarren Aronofsky\nHal Ashby\nRichard Attenborough\nBille August\nJohn G. Avildsen\nJon Avnet\nDavid Ayer\n\nJohn Badham\n\n\nStuart Baird\nCharles Band\n\n\nWes Ball\nTony Barbieri\n\nJules Bass & Arthur Rankin Jr.\n\n\nMichael Bay\n\n\nJ. A. Bayona\nWarren Beatty\nJosh Becker\nBruce Beresford\n\n\nPeter Berg\nIngmar Bergman\n\n\nAndrew Bergman\n\nBernardo Bertolucci\nBibo Bergeron\nLuc Besson\nBahram Beyzai\n\n\nMike Binder\nBrad Bird\nShane Black\n\n\nDon Bluth\n\n\nJames Bobin\nPaul Bogart\nMauro Bolognini\nUwe Boll\nJan de Bont\nDavid Bowers\nDanny Boyle\n\n\nJohn Brahm\n\n\nKenneth Branagh\nMartin Brest\nPhilippe De Broca \nJames L. Brooks\nMel Brooks\n\n\nJohn Carl Buechler\nLuis Buñuel\nCharles Burnett\nJeff Burr\n\n\nMartin Brest\n\nTim Burton\nGina Prince-Bythewood\n\nEdward L. Cahn\n\n\nChristopher Cain\n\n\nJames Cameron\n\n\nMartin Campbell\nFrank Capra\n\n\nJohn Carpenter\nD.J. Caruso\n\nJohn Cassavetes\n\nNick Cassavetes\nNick Castle\nGilbert Cates\nLarry Charles\nDamien Chazelle\nPeter Chelsom\nRoger Christian\n\n\nJon M. Chu\nMichael Cimino\nBob Clark\nGeorge Clooney\nCoen Brothers\nLarry Cohen\n\n\nEtan Cohen\nRob Cohen\nChris Columbus\n\n\nBill Condon\nRyan Coogler\nMartha Coolidge\n\nFrancis Ford Coppola\n\n\nFrank Coraci\nRoger Corman\n\n\nGeorge P. Cosmatos\n\n\nAlex Cox\nWes Craven\n\n\nDestin Daniel Cretton\nMichael Crichton\nJohn Cromwell\nDavid Cronenberg\nCameron Crowe\nAlfonso Cuarón\n\n\nGeorge Cukor\nSean S. Cunningham\nDan Curtis\n\n\nMichael Curtiz\n\nRod Daniel\nLee Daniels\nJoe Dante\n\n\nFrank Darabont\n\n\nDelmer Daves\n\nAndrew Davis\nJohn A. Davis\nJohn DeBello\nDean DeBlois\nÁlex de la Iglesia\nDavid DeCoteau\nAlberto De Martino\nBrian De Palma\n\n\nJonathan Demme\n\n\nTed Demme\nJacques Demy\nHoward Deutch\n\n\nDanny DeVito\nWilliam Dieterle\nMark Dindal\nPete Docter\nXavier Dolan\nRoger Donaldson\nRichard Donner\nMichael Dougherty\nGordon Douglas\nDennis Dugan\nChristian Duguay\nMark Duplass and Jay Duplass\n\nClint Eastwood\n\n\nBlake Edwards\nAtom Egoyan\nSergei Eisenstein\nStephan Elliot\nRoland Emmerich\n\n\nJohn Erman\nGareth Evans\n\nRoberto Faenza\nRainer Werner Fassbinder\nJon Favreau\nPaul Feig\n\n\nFederico Fellini\n\n\nAbel Ferrara\n\n\nTodd Field\nAndy Fickman\nEduardo De Filippo\nDavid Fincher\n\n\nTerence Fisher\nMike Flanagan\nGary Fleder\nRichard Fleischer\nVictor Fleming\nAnne Fletcher\nJames Foley\n\n\nBryan Forbes\nTom Ford\nJohn Ford\nBob Fosse\nScott Frank\nDavid Frankel\nJohn Frankenheimer\nRichard Franklin\nStephen Frears\n\nWilliam Friedkin\n\n\nLucio Fulci\nAntoine Fuqua\n\nAlex Garland\nMick Garris\nAlejandro González Iñárritu\nMel Gibson\nLewis Gilbert\n\n\nTerry Gilliam\n\n\nTony Gilroy\nJohn Glen\nBert I. Gordon\nJean-Luc Godard\nJames Goldstone\n\n\nSeth Gordon\nStuart Gordon\n\n\nDavid S. Goyer\nWilliam Graham\nJames Gray\nPeter Greenaway\nPhilippe Garrel\nPaul Greengrass\nDavid Gordon Green\nTom Gries\nRaja Gosnell\n\n\nChristopher Guest\nJames Gunn\nJohn Guillermin\n\nTaylor Hackford\n\n\nRanda Haines\nJohn Hamburg\nGuy Hamilton\nJohn Lee Hancock\nCurtis Hanson\n\n\nCatherine Hardwicke\nRenny Harlin\n\n\nHal Hartley\nAnthony Harvey\nHenry Hathaway\nHoward Hawks\nTodd Haynes\nAmy Heckerling\nRob Hedden\nStuart Heisler\nJim Henson\nStephen Herek\n\n\nMichael O'Herlihy\nMark Herman\n\n\nRowdy Herrington\nJohn Herzfeld\nWerner Herzog\n\n\nPeter Hewitt\n\n\nColin Higgins\nGeorge Roy Hill\nTim Hill\nWalter Hill\n\n\nArthur Hiller\n\n\nAlfred Hitchcock\n\n\nP.J. Hogan\nAgnieszka Holland\nIshirō Honda\nStephen Hopkins\nTom Hooper\nMamoru Hosoda\nRon Howard\n\n\nReginald Hudlin\nJohn Hughes\nJohn Huston\nPeter Hyams\n\nOtar Iosseliani\n\nDan Ireland\nRobert Iscove\n\n\nNeal Israel\nJim Issac\nJames Ivory\n\nDianne Jackson\nMick Jackson\nPeter Jackson\n\n\nBarry Jenkins\nGarth Jennings\nJean-Pierre Jeunet\nNorman Jewison\n\n\nRoland Joffé\nRian Johnson\nJoe Johnston\n\n\nDuncan Jones\nHarmon Jones\nSpike Jonze\nGlenn Jordan\nNeil Jordan\n\n\nMike Judge\n\nShusuke Kaneko\nJake Kasdan\nLawrence Kasdan\nKazuyoshi Katayama\nLloyd Kaufman\n\nElia Kazan\n\nJennifer Kent\nIrwin Kershner\nBruce Kessler\nKrzysztof Kieślowski\nHenry King\n\nTakesi Kitano\n\n\nRandal Kleiser\n\n\nTravis Knight\nMasaki Kobayashi\nSatoshi Kon\nZoltan Korda\nJoseph Kosinski\nHenry Koster\nStanley Kramer\n\n\nStanley Kubrick\n\nBuzz Kulik\n\nRoger Kumble\nAkira Kurosawa\n\n\nJustin Kurzel\nKaryn Kusama\nEmir Kusturica\nKen Kwapis\n\nAldo Lado\nJohn Landis\n\n\nFritz Lang\nWalter Lang\n\n\nJohn Lasseter\nFrancis Lawrence\nDavid Lean\n\n\nAng Lee\n\n\nMalcolm D. Lee\n\n\nSpike Lee\n\n\nMichael Lembeck\nDavid Leitch\nTony Leondis\nSergio Leone\n\n\nRichard Lester\n\n\nRob Letterman\nBrian Levant\n\n\nHenry Levin\n\n\nBarry Levinson\n\n\nShawn Levy\n\n\nHerschell Gordon Lewis\nDoug Liman\n\n\nJustin Lin\nRichard Linklater\nKen Loach\nPhil Lord & Christopher Miller\nDavid Lowery\nGeorge Lucas\nBaz Luhrmann\nSidney Lumet\n\n\nRod Lurie\nWilliam Lustig\nDavid Lynch\nAdrian Lyne\n\n\nJonathan Lynn\n\nSeth MacFarlane\nJohn Madden\n\n\nTerence Malick\nDavid Mamet\n\n\nJames Mangold\nJoseph L. Mankiewicz\nDaniel Mann\nMichael Mann\n\n\nDelbert Mann\n\nRichard Marquand\nEdwin L. Marin\nGarry Marshall\n\n\nPenny Marshall\nPaul Mazursky\nMartin McDonagh\nVincent McEveety\nBernard McEveety\nMichael McGowan\nDouglas McGrath\nTom McGrath\nAdam McKay\n\n\nAndrew V. McLaglen\n\nChristopher McQuarrie\nSteve McQueen\nJohn McTiernan\n\n\nSam Mendes\nRamón Menéndez\nNicholas Meyer\nNancy Meyers\nJohn Milius\nBennett Miller\nGeorge Miller\n\n\nRob Minkoff\nSteve Miner\n\n\nAnthony Minghella\nVincente Minnelli\nDavid Robert Mitchell\nMike Mitchell\nHayao Miyazaki\nKenji Mizoguchi\nGiuliano Montaldo\nJonathan Mostow\nShuhei Morita\nRobert Mulligan\n\nMike Nawrocki\nJean Negulesco\nJennifer Yuh Nelson\nRalph Nelson\nMike Newell\n\n\nJoseph P. Newman\nPaul Newman\nAndrew Niccol\nJeff Nichols\nMike Nichols\nLeonard Nimoy\nMarcus Nispel\nChristopher Nolan\n\n\nJonathan Nolan\nPhillip Noyce\n\n\nCyrus Nowrasteh\n\nGavin O'Connor\nSteve Oedekerk\nTakao Okawara\nLaurence Olivier\nMark Osborne\nMamoru Oshii\nFrank Oz\nYasujirō Ozu\n\nJosé Padilha\nAlan J. Pakula\n\n\nNick Park\nAlan Parker\nRobert Parrish\nJohn Pasquin\nPier Paolo Pasolini\nAlexander Payne\nSam Peckinpah\nLarry Peerce\n\n\nOz Perkins\nTyler Perry\n\n\nWolfgang Petersen\n\n\nElio Petri\nDonald Petrie\n\n\nDaniel Petrie\n\nBrad Peyton\nRenji Philip\nTodd Phillips\n\n\nSteve Pink\nAngelina Jolie Pitt\nSidney Poitier\nRoman Polanski\n\n\nSydney Pollack\nMichael Powell and Emeric Pressburger\n\nOtto Preminger\n\nMichael Pressman\n\n\nAlex Proyas\nAlbert Pyun\n\nBob Rafelson\nSam Raimi\n\n\nHarold Ramis\nMani Ratnam\nBrett Ratner\n\n\nFred Olen Ray\nRobert Redford\nPeyton Reed\nJerry Rees\nMatt Reeves\nNicolas Winding Refn\n\n\nGodfrey Reggio\nCarl Reiner\n\n\nRob Reiner\nWolfgang Reitherman\n\n\nIvan Reitman\n\n\nJason Reitman\n\n\nTony Richardson\nGuy Ritchie\n\n\nMartin Ritt\n\n\nJay Roach\n\n\nMatthew Robbins\nMark Robson\nChris Rock\nRobert Rodriguez\n\n\nNicholas Roeg\nStuart Rosenberg\nRick Rosenthal\n\n\nHerbert Ross\n\nRoberto Rossellini\nEli Roth\nJoe Roth\nJoseph Ruben\nAlan Rudolph\nRaúl Ruiz\nRichard Rush\nJay Russell\nRusso brothers\n\n\nMark Rydell\n\n\n\nLuciano Salce\nCarlos Saldanha\nSidney Salkow\nDavid F. Sandberg\nChris Sanders\nJoseph Sargent\nJeremy Saulnier\nClaude Sautet\nJohn Sayles\nFranklin J. Schaffner\nFred Schepisi\n\n\nPaul Schrader\nJohn Schultz\nDavid Schmoeller\nJoel Schumacher\n\n\nRobert Schwentke\n\n\nMartin Scorsese\n\n\nRidley Scott\n\n\nTony Scott\n\n\nGeorge Seaton\n\nPeter Segal\n\n\nSusan Seidelman\n\nTom Shadyac\nS. Shankar\nAdam Shankman\n\n\nRon Shelton\n\n\nJim Sheridan\n\n\nGary Sherman\nTrey Edward Shults\nM. Night Shyamalan\nVittorio De Sica\n\n\nDon Siegel\n\n\nBrad Silberling\nMarisa Silver\nBryan Singer\nJohn Singleton\n\n\nDouglas Sirk\nJerzy Skolimowski\nKevin Smith\n\nJack Smight\n\n\nZack Snyder\n\n\nSteven Soderbergh\n\n\nCourtney Solomon\nStephen Sommers\n\n\nBarry Sonnenfeld\n\n\nAlberto Sordi\nSteven Spielberg\n\n\nChad Stahelski\nJohn M. Stahl\nSylvester Stallone\n\n\nRichard Stanley\nAndrew Stanton\nBen Stassen\nLeslie Stevens\nGeorge Stevens\nRobert Stevenson\n\n\nBen Stiller\nJohn Stockwell\nNicholas Stoller\n\n\nOliver Stone\n\n\nTim Story\nMel Stuart\nJohn Sturges\nJeannot Szwarc\nJohn Sturges\n\nYōjirō Takita\nRachel Talalay\nAndrei Tarkovsky\nBéla Tarr\nGenndy Tartakovsky\nFrank Tashlin\n\n\nTate Taylor\nDon Taylor\nJud Taylor\nJulie Taymor\nGary Templeton \nAndy Tennant\nMasaaki Tezuka\nBetty Thomas\nJ. Lee Thompson\nRawson Marshall Thurber\nGeorge Tillman, Jr.\nNorman Tokar\n\n\nGiuseppe Tornatore\nGuillermo del Toro\n\n\nAndre De Toth\nJacques Tourneur\nRobert Townsend\nDan Trachtenberg\nBrian Trenchard-Smith\nColin Trevorrow\nJoachim Trier\nFrancois Truffault\n\n\nJon Turteltaub\nDavid Twohy\n\nRon Underwood\n\nGus Van Sant\nMatthew Vaughn\n\n\nGore Verbinski\n\n\nPaul Verhoeven\n\nKing Vidor\n\nDenis Villeneuve\n\nThe Wachowski Brothers\n\n\nDavid Wain\nChris Walas\nRandall Wallace\nRaoul Walsh\nFred Walton\nJames Wan\n\n\nJohn Waters\nMark Waters\nKeenen Ivory Wayans\nRobert D. Web\nSimon Wells\nLo Wei\nPeter Weir\n\n\nSam Weisman\nChris Weitz\nOrson Welles\nWilliam Wellman\nWim Wenders\n\n\nPaul Wendkos\nPeter Werner\nTi West\nJohn Whitesell\nBilly Wilder\n\n\nGene Wilder\nSimon Wincer\n\n\nJames Wong\nKar-Wai Wong\nMichael Winner\nRobert Wise\nJohn Woo\n\n\nEdgar Wright\n\n\nJoe Wright\nDonald Wrye\nWilliam Wyler\nJim Wynorski\n\nBoaz Yakin\nYoshikazu Yasuhiko\nPeter Yates\nDavid Yates\n\n\nBud Yorkin\nRoger Young\nHiromasa Yonebayashi\nRonny Yu\nRobert M. Young\nTerence Young\n\nAlex Zamm\nRobert Zemeckis\nFred Zinnemann\nJoseph Zito\nRob Zombie\nDavid Zucker\n\n\nJerry Zucker \nValerio Zurlini\nEdward Zwick\n\n\nTerry Zwigoff\n"}
{"id": "2187986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2187986", "title": "Metarealism", "text": "Metarealism\n\nMetarealism is a direction in Russian poetry and art that was born in the 1970s to the 1980s. The term was first used by Mikhail Epshtein, who coined it in 1981 and made it public in the Soviet magazine \"Voprosy Literatury\" in 1983; see below his \"Theses on Metarealism and Conceptualism\" from 1983 and the following years Also: Third Wave: The New Russian Poetry. Ed. K. Johnson & S. M. Ashby. Preface by M. Epshtein, A. Wachtel, A. Parshchikov. University of Michigan Press, 1992 , p. 10, 53, 184 , Tom Epstein's essay «Metarealism» in the anthology Crossing Centuries: The New Generations in Russian Poetry. Ed. High, John. NY: Talisman House Pub., 2000 , , p. 87-89, and Marjorie Perloff \"Russian Postmodernism: An Oxymoron?\" in Postmodern Culture, Volume 3, # 2, January 1993 .\n\nM. Epshtein insists that in its philosophic dimension metarealism is \"metaphysical realism,\" while \"stylistically\" metarealism is \"metaphorical\" realism. (See the most detailed explanation and exposition of this term in Epshtein's articles \"Theses on Metarealism and Conceptualism\" , \"A Catalogue of the New Poetries\" (Russian version) and in its English version Thus, \"meta\" means both \"through\" and \"beyond\" the reality that we all can see; hence, \"metarealism\" is the realism of the hyperphysical nature of things. The main expression of its essence is given through a non-visual metaphor or, according to another Epshtein's term, a \"metabola\" (rather than hyperbole), that means \"transfer\" or \"transition,\" opening many dimensions. [See part 3 in \"Metabola\" is different from the symbol or a \"visual\" metaphor, because it assumes the interosculation of realities. See: M.Epshtein. After the Future: the Paradoxes of Postmodernism & Contemporary Russian Culture. University of Massachusetts Press, 1995, 416 p. , , pp. 40–50. Metarealism has very little to do with surrealism, since it appeals to the superconscious and not to the subconscious, thus opening up a many-dimensional perception of the world.\n\nMetarealism further gained traction after it became a subject of the House of Artists debate at an exhibition of the Hyperrealists, where its utility was discussed as a new method of creation to overcome traditional realism.\n\nMetarealism is synonymous to metaconscience, which means beyond psychological consciousness, beyond a subjective psychological polarized view of reality. Metarealism seeks to depict the reality which exists beyond that psychological subjective perspective. Metarealism proposes not only to communicate further than the pictorial aspect of the perception of other dimensions of reality, but also the essence of those dimensions and their relation to us as human beings. Metarealism then becomes a tool for the evolution of consciousness; just like in the old days when artists painted sacred art to depict their vision of the reality they perceived, through their spiritual interpretation of other dimensions. Thus, Epstein explained that the entire history of world art is the premise and source of metarealism, particularly its condensed codes, encyclopedic summaries, and extracts. For instance, metabola or metabole is derived from the dictionary and a microencyclopedia of culture, compressed and translated from one language to another so that it pertains to a reality consisted of interpenetration of different consubstantial realities. For Epstein, metarealism is an attempt to return to the word the fullness of its figurative and transcendent meanings.\n\nMetarealism could be also considered a sacred art, in that it also tries to depict, through a [metaconscious] perspective, the essence of reality as perceived by a metaconscious mind. Meta meaning, a holistic view of reality as perceived by a metaconscious mind, who sees reality as a whole rather than from a subjective personalized intellectually fragmented point of view. Metarealism is the materialization in pictorial form of the reality of other dimensions and their direct effect, and relation upon us. Metarealism tries to depict the relations between those dimensions of reality and how we psychologically interpret them through our sub mental symbolism. As a narrative style, metarealism does not have a clearly defined lyrical hero and focuses instead on the so-called sum of perceptions, which is \"the geometrical space constituted by points of view.\n\nAccording to Bernard De Montréal, most contemporary visual arts are involutionary art that expresses the dissimulated frustrations and struggle of the unconscious self in her search for real identity through the euphoric, sub mental symbolism of the art form an avocation of the soul that has little in common with the interdimensional identity of the self.\n\nConscious or mental art \"metarealism\" when created by an metaconscious artist is inspired from the higher self, and is a channel for the dictation of the conscious science of art, instead of being simply a lower form of self-expression, a cultural artefact of relative value.\n\nThe mental artist has little need for unconscious expression and directs her creative \"expiration\" toward the exploration of higher consciousness through her art, rather than simply entertaining a fictitious role. Art in its astral form belongs to our kind of civilization. We still need its contention that there is more to reality than appears at first sight. Art in its higher form is therefore created by a totally new human being.\n\n"}
{"id": "7718731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7718731", "title": "Musexpo", "text": "Musexpo\n\nMUSEXPO is an international music, media & technology conference based in Los Angeles. Since its inception in 2005, MUSEXPO has played host to thousands of executives from all around the world and showcased 100+ artists from dozens of countries, many of which left with substantial outcomes. With participation from executives such as Larry King (CNN), Tom Anderson (Co-Founder, MySpace), Chad Hurley (Co-Founder, YouTube), Steve Schnur (Head of Music, Electronic Arts) and many others, MUSEXPO has continually stayed on top of what is current and relevant in today's music industry. Due to popular demand, the event has recently been launched internationally: including the fifth annual International Music, Media & Technology conference MUSEXPO 2009 on Sunday April 26 at the London West Hollywood Hotel, One Movement MUSEXPO Asia Pacific in Perth, Western Australia October 6-10, 2010 and MUSEXPO Europe which takes place in Fall 2011. MUSEXPO LA will be held in Spring 2011.\n\nMUSEXPO: Three Continents, One Vision.\n\nAnimal Alpha, Bloodpit, Breed 77, Cass Fox, Drawn from Bees, Deep Insight, Embrace (English band), Engerica, Evermore, Goldenhorse, Gomo, Infadels, Intercooler (band), Kwan, Missy Higgins, Mudmen, Pilot Speed, Poets of the Fall, Reamonn, Resin Dogs, Spazzys, The Boat People (Australian band), The Gift (band), The Temper Trap, Tina Dico, MENEW, Katy Perry, Jessie J and Losing Focus.\n\n"}
{"id": "12561091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12561091", "title": "New Cybernetics (Gordon Pask)", "text": "New Cybernetics (Gordon Pask)\n\nThis article discusses the term \"New Cybernetics\" as used by Gordon Pask. He explained it as the meaningful transfer of information between coherences in all media in terms of attractions and repulsions between clockwise and anti-clockwise spins. This is a possibly defining paradigm of the new cybernetics or second-order cybernetics.\n\nUnfoldment of coherences of recursively packed concepts by the repulsive \"carapace\" forces of like concepts and coalescence by the attraction of unlike concepts is a further feature. There is both a psychodynamic and panpsychic element to Pask's approach. Whilst he was most certainly a second order cybernetician this he achieved simply by placing co-ordinates on a participant rather than claiming non-participant observer status. Beer, similarly, regarded his Viable System Model as a model of the observer. Pask was liberal in his approach (he eschewed \"flag waving\" claims) he advocated students and practitioners use his tools if they found them applicable. In his introduction to Graham Barnes' 1994 collection of essays on psychotherapy and second-order cybernetics \"Justice, Love and Wisdom\" with these words:\n\nI may claim some fundamental expertise both in the \"old\" and the congruent but significantly advanced \"new\" cybernetics. It is on the \"new\", rather than the \"old\" (of black boxes and input/output relations), that Graham Barnes explicates this illuminating, relevantly informative, insightful and highly innovative book.\n\nBarnes regarded himself as a participant therapist. At the time Pask had completed work on his first draft of \"Interactions of Actors (IA) Theory and Some Applications\" and was working on his last paper \"Heinz von Foerster's Self-Organization, the Progenitor of Conversation and Interaction Theories\". Here he introduced spin-spin forces as the agents of Self-organization, Learning and Evolution.\nThe old cybernetics has been elaborated \"ad infinitum\".\n\nThe new cybernetics (some call it second-order cybernetics in contrast to the first order of classical black boxes and negative feedback) is burgeoning well beyond the bounds of respectability which were imposed by the establishment. If interaction, albeit interrupted by a phone call or a business trip, is unfettered in intellectual flow, I call it a conversation which leads to an exchange of concepts, not necessarily of the topic, but of the participants. It may or may not be about whatever is the alleged topic of conversation. Later we consider interaction of a broader kind, the interaction of actors. Conversations are events which have a beginning and have an end and may be subdivided into kinematic portions, in contrast to interactions of actors which cannot.\n\nFor some years in talks with his research students he had remarked on the \"hard carapace\" (see Gordon Pask for diagram) as a stability criterion for concepts (persisting countably infinite packed recursive spins that produce relations \"in any medium\") and that there were \"No Doppelgangers\". These were perplexing themes and it was some time before the small differences between coherences were seen as productive of differentiation in evolution and learning. These small differences or incommensurabilities are ultimately aggregative as Pask's last theorem showed \"Like concepts repel, unlike concept attract\". The durations for small differences to assert could be very long and it is important to realize that in the strictly field concurrent world of IA theory a communicated concept has opposite spin to its source concept.\n\nA dispersive (e.g. Fourier) transform might be applied to disclose the spin spectra in a particular context from a particular perspective. For many years he discussed these distinctions in his Conversation Theory by insisting that his p-individuals could exist in a single m-individual, where communication was synchronous or in many m-individuals where p-individuals were coherent collections of concepts and m-individuals where the media supporting these states, communicated asynchronously or via a Petri net token protocol.\n\n\"They will come to know\" said Pask of his new approach. He regarded IA as a process theory and his Actors were eternal, supporting the production of all bounded products (e.g. conversations, descriptions or describable coherences) with their forces. His position with regard to the Copenhagen Interpretation and Bohr Complementarity was captured in Pask's Complementarity Principle: \"Products are produced by processes and all processes produce products\". In the last paper remarked that there was a particle aspect to a conversation the recompilation of which by a recipient was the meaning or affective emotion.\n\nOn the \"Many-worlds\" (interpretation of quantum mechanics) he says \"Theories of many universes, one at least for each participant- one to participant A and one to participant B- are bridged by an analogy. As before this is \"the truth value of any interaction: the metaphor for which is culture itself\"\".\n\nIn some respects Pask's new Cybernetics is an evolution of Freud and Jung's ideas of psychodynamics and the doctrines of panpsychism. Amongst the ancients Thales' speculations can be seen in Pask's work. Here, rather than the Boltzmann distribution as fundamental to the model, we have the possible coalitions of concepts in all media which produces a distribution of Stirling numbers of the second kind and their forces of interaction.\n\nKwabena Boahen of Stanford's Department of Bioengineering estimates the currents in the brain sum to around 100 amps (10 watts at 0.1 volts). These currents (100 coulombs/sec) produce field concurrent, changing attractions and repulsions: a dynamic equilibrium of compression and tension. Pask was interested in the prismatic tensegrity as a means of analyzing these concurrent forces.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22666", "title": "Old Norse", "text": "Old Norse\n\nOld Norse was a North Germanic language that was spoken by inhabitants of Scandinavia and inhabitants of their overseas settlements from about the 9th to the 13th century.\n\nThe Proto-Norse language developed into Old Norse by the 8th century, and Old Norse began to develop into the modern North Germanic languages in the mid- to late 14th century, ending the language phase known as Old Norse. These dates, however, are not absolute, since written Old Norse is found well into the 15th century.\n\nOld Norse was divided into three dialects: Old West Norse, Old East Norse, and Old Gutnish. Old West and East Norse formed a dialect continuum, with no clear geographical boundary between them. For example, Old East Norse traits were found in eastern Norway, although Old Norwegian is classified as Old West Norse, and Old West Norse traits were found in western Sweden. Most speakers spoke Old East Norse in what is present day Denmark and Sweden. Old Gutnish, the more obscure dialectal branch, is sometimes included in the Old East Norse dialect due to geographical associations. It developed its own unique features and shared in changes to both other branches.\n\nThe 12th-century Icelandic \"Gray Goose Laws\" state that Swedes, Norwegians, Icelanders, and Danes spoke the same language, \"dǫnsk tunga\" (\"Danish tongue\"; speakers of Old East Norse would have said \"dansk tunga\"). Another term, used especially commonly with reference to West Norse, was \"norrœnt mál\" or \"norrǿnt mál\" (\"Nordic/Northern speech\"). Today Old Norse has developed into the modern North Germanic languages Icelandic, Faroese, Norwegian, Danish, and Swedish, of which Norwegian, Danish and Swedish retain considerable mutual intelligibility.\n\nOld Icelandic was very close to Old Norwegian, and together they formed the Old West Norse dialect, which was also spoken in settlements in Ireland, Scotland, the Isle of Man and northwest England, and in Norse settlements in Normandy. The Old East Norse dialect was spoken in Denmark, Sweden, settlements in Kievan Rus', eastern England, and Danish settlements in Normandy. The Old Gutnish dialect was spoken in Gotland and in various settlements in the East. In the 11th century, Old Norse was the most widely spoken European language, ranging from Vinland in the West to the Volga River in the East. In Kievan Rus', it survived the longest in Veliky Novgorod, probably lasting into the 13th century there. The age of the Swedish-speaking population of Finland is strongly contested, but at latest by the time of the Second Swedish Crusade in the 13th century, Swedish settlement had spread the language into the region.\n\nThe modern descendants of the Old West Norse dialect are the West Scandinavian languages of Icelandic, Faroese, Norwegian and the extinct Norn language of Orkney and Shetland; the descendants of the Old East Norse dialect are the East Scandinavian languages of Danish and Swedish. Norwegian is descended from Old West Norse, but over the centuries it has been heavily influenced by East Norse, particularly during the Denmark–Norway union.\n\nAmong these, Icelandic and the closely related Faroese have changed the least from Old Norse in the last thousand years, although with Danish rule of the Faroe Islands, Faroese has also been influenced by Danish. Old Norse also had an influence on English dialects and Lowland Scots, which contain many Old Norse loanwords. It also influenced the development of the Norman language, and through it and to a smaller extent, that of modern French.\n\nOf the modern languages, Icelandic is the closest to Old Norse. Written modern Icelandic derives from the Old Norse phonemic writing system. Contemporary Icelandic-speakers can read Old Norse, which varies slightly in spelling as well as semantics and word order. However, pronunciation, particularly of the vowel phonemes, has changed at least as much as in the other North Germanic languages.\n\nFaroese retains many similarities but is influenced by Danish, Norwegian, and Gaelic (Scottish and/or Irish). Although Swedish, Danish and the Norwegian languages have diverged the most, they still retain mutual intelligibility. Speakers of modern Swedish, Norwegian and Danish can mostly understand each other without studying their neighboring languages, particularly if speaking slowly. The languages are also sufficiently similar in writing that they can mostly be understood across borders. This could be because these languages have been mutually affected by each other, as well as having a similar development influenced by Middle Low German.\n\nVarious other languages, which are not closely related, have been heavily influenced by Norse, particularly the Norman language. Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Lithuanian, Finnish, Latvian and Estonian also have a number of Norse loanwords; the words \"Rus\" and \"Russia\", according to one theory, may be named after the Rus' people, a Norse tribe; \"see Rus (name)\", probably from present-day east-central Sweden. The current Finnish and Estonian words for Sweden are \"Ruotsi\" and \"Rootsi\", respectively. \n\nA number of loanwords have been introduced into the Irish language – many but not all are associated with fishing and sailing. A similar influence is found in Scots Gaelic, with over one hundred loanwords estimated to be in the language, many of which, but not all, are related to fishing and sailing.\n\nThe vowel phonemes mostly come in pairs of long and short. The standardized orthography marks the long vowels with an acute accent. In medieval manuscripts, it is often unmarked but sometimes marked with an accent or through gemination. All phonemes have, more or less, the expected phonetic realization.\n\nOld Norse has had nasalized versions of all nine vowel places. These occurred as allophones of the vowels before nasal consonants and in places where a nasal had followed it in an older form of the word, before it was absorbed into a neighboring sound. If the nasal was absorbed by a stressed vowel, it would also lengthen the vowel. These nasalizations also occurred in the other Germanic languages, but were not retained long. They were noted in the First Grammatical Treatise, and otherwise might have remained unknown. The First Grammarian marked these with a dot above the letter. This notation did not catch on, and would soon be obsolete. Nasal and oral vowels probably merged around the 11th century in most of Old East Norse. However, the distinction still holds in Dalecarlian dialects. The dots in the following vowel table separate the oral from nasal phonemes.\n\nNote: The open or open-mid vowels may be transcribed differently:\n\nSometime around the 13th century, (spelled ǫ) merged with or in all dialects except Old Danish. In Icelandic, all (ǫ) merged with . This can be determined by their distinction within the 12th-century First Grammatical Treatise but not within the early 13th-century Prose Edda. The nasal vowels, also noted in the First Grammatical Treatise, are assumed to have been lost in most dialects by this time (but notably they are retained in Elfdalian). See Old Icelandic for the mergers of (spelled œ) with (spelled æ) and (spelled ę) with (e).\n\nOld Norse has six plosive phonemes, being rare word-initially and and pronounced as voiced fricative allophones between vowels except in compound words (e.g. veðrabati), already in the Proto-Germanic language (e.g. \"*b\" > [v] between vowels). The phoneme was pronounced as after an \"n\" or another \"g\" and as before and . Some accounts have it a voiced velar fricative in all cases, and others have that realisation only in the middle of words and between vowels (with it otherwise being realised ). The Old East Norse /ʀ/ was an apical consonant, with its precise position is unknown; it is reconstructed as a palatal sibilant. It descended from Proto-Germanic and eventually developed into , as had already occurred in Old West Norse.\n\nThe consonant digraphs \"hl\", \"hr\", \"hn\" occurred word-initially. It is unclear whether they were sequences of two consonants (with the first element realised as or perhaps ) or as single voiceless sonorants , and respectively. In Old Norwegian, Old Danish and later Old Swedish, the groups \"hl\", \"hr\", \"hn\" were reduced to plain \"l\", \"r\", \"n\", which suggests that they had most likely already been pronounced as voiceless sonorants by Old Norse times.\n\nThe pronunciation of \"hv\" is unclear, but it may have been (the Proto-Germanic pronunciation), or . Unlike the three other digrapghs, it was retained much longer in all dialects. Without ever developing into a voiceless sonorant in Icelandic, it instead underwent fortition to a plosive , which suggests that instead of being a voiceless sonorant, it retained a stronger frication.\n\nUnlike Proto-Norse, which was written with the Elder Futhark, runic Old Norse was originally written with the Younger Futhark, which only had 16 letters. Because of the limited number of runes, several runes were used for different sounds, and the distinction between long and short vowels wasn't retained in writing. Medieval runes came into use some time later.\n\nAs for the Latin alphabet, there was no standardized orthography in use in the Middle Ages. A modified version of the letter wynn called vend was used briefly for the sounds , , and . Long vowels were sometimes marked with acutes, but also sometimes left unmarked or geminated. The standardized Old Norse spelling was created in the 19th century, and is for the most part phonemic. The most notable deviation is that the non-phonemic difference between the voiced and the voiceless dental fricative is marked—the oldest texts as well as runic inscriptions use \"þ\" exclusively. Long vowels are denoted with acutes. Most other letters are written with the same glyph as the IPA phoneme, except as shown in the table below.\n\nPrimary stress in Old Norse falls on the word stem, so that \"hyrjar\" would be pronounced . In compound words, secondary stress falls on the second stem (e.g. \"lærisveinn\", ).\n\nAblaut patterns are groups of vowels which are swapped, or ablauted, in the nucleus of a word. Strong verbs ablaut the lemma's nucleus to derive the past forms of the verb. This parallels English conjugation, where, e.g., the nucleus of \"sing\" becomes \"sang\" in the past tense and \"sung\" in the past participle. Some verbs are derived by ablaut, as the present-in-past verbs do by consequence of being derived from the past tense forms of strong verbs.\n\nUmlaut or mutation is an assimilatory process acting on vowels preceding a vowel or semivowel of a different vowel backness. In the case of i-umlaut and ʀ-umlaut, this entails a fronting of back vowels, with retention of lip rounding. In the case of u-umlaut, this entails labialization of unrounded vowels. Umlaut is phonemic and in many situations grammatically significant as a side effect of losing the Proto-Germanic morphological suffixes whose vowels created the umlaut allophones.\n\nSome , , , , , , , and all were obtained by i-umlaut from , , , , , , , and respectively. Others were formed via ʀ-umlaut from , , , , and .\n\nSome , , , , and all , were obtained by u-umlaut from , , , , and , respectively. See Old Icelandic for information on .\n\nOEN often preserves the original value of the vowel directly preceding runic \"ʀ\" while OWN receives ʀ-umlaut. Compare runic OEN \"glaʀ, haʀi, hrauʀ\" with OWN \"gler, heri\" (later \"héri\"), \"hrøyrr/hreyrr\" (\"glass\", \"hare\", \"pile of rocks\").\n\nU-umlaut is more common in Old West Norse in both phonemic and allophonic positions, while it only occurs sparsely in post-runic Old East Norse and even in runic Old East Norse. Compare West Old Norse \"fǫður\" (accusative of \"faðir\", 'father'), \"vǫrðr\" (guardian/caretaker), \"ǫrn\" (eagle), \"jǫrð\" ('earth', Modern Icelandic: \"jörð\"), \"mjǫlk\" ('milk', Modern Icelandic: \"mjólk\") with Old Swedish \"faður\", \"varðer\", \"örn\", \"jorð\" and Modern Swedish \"örn\", \"jord\", \"mjölk\" with the latter two demonstrating the u-umlaut found in Swedish.\n\nThis is still a major difference between Swedish and Faroese and Icelandic today. Plurals of neuters do not have u-umlaut at all in Swedish, but in Faroese and Icelandic they do, for example the Faroese and Icelandic plurals of the word \"land\", \"lond\" and \"lönd\" respectively, in contrast to the Swedish plural \"land\" and numerous other examples. That also applies to almost all feminine nouns, for example the largest feminine noun group, the o-stem nouns (except the Swedish noun \"jord\" mentioned above), and even i-stem nouns and root nouns, such as Old West Norse \"mǫrk\" (\"mörk\" in Icelandic) in comparison with Modern and Old Swedish \"mark\".\n\nVowel breaking, or fracture, caused a front vowel to be split into a semivowel-vowel sequence before a back vowel in the following syllable. While West Norse only broke \"e\", East Norse also broke \"i\". The change was blocked by a \"v\", \"l\", or \"r\" preceding the potentially-broken vowel.\n\nSome or and or result from breaking of and respectively.\n\nWhen a noun, pronoun, adjective, or verb has a long vowel or diphthong in the accented syllable and its stem ends in a single \"l\", \"n\", or \"s\", the \"r\" (or the elder \"r\"- or \"z\"-variant \"ʀ\") in an ending is assimilated. When the accented vowel is short, the ending is dropped.\n\nThe nominative of the strong masculine declension and some i-stem feminine nouns uses one such -r (ʀ). \"Óðin\"-\"r\" (\"Óðin\"-\"ʀ\") becomes \"Óðinn\" instead of \"*Óðinr\" (\"*Óðinʀ\"). \n\nThe verb \"blása\" 'to blow', has third person present tense blæss for \"[he] blows\" rather than \"*blæsr\" (\"*blæsʀ\"). Similarly, the verb \"skína\" 'to shine' had present tense third person skínn (rather than \"*skínr\", \"*skínʀ\"); while \"kala\" 'to cool down' had present tense third person kell (rather than \"*kelr\", \"*kelʀ\").\n\nThe rule is not absolute, with certain counter-examples such as \"vinr\", which has the synonym \"vin\", yet retains the unabsorbed version, and \"jǫtunn\", where assimilation takes place even though the root vowel, \"ǫ\", is short.\n\nThe clusters */Clʀ, Csʀ, Cnʀ, Crʀ/ cannot yield */Clː, Csː, Cnː, Crː/ respectively, instead /Cl, Cs, Cn, Cr/. The effect of this shortening can result in the lack of distinction between some forms of the noun. In the case of \"vetr\", the nominative and accusative singular and plural forms are identical. The nominative singular and nominative and accusative plural would otherwise have been OWN \"*vetrr\", OEN \"*vintrʀ\". These forms are impossible because the cluster */Crʀ/ cannot be realized as /Crː/, nor as */Crʀ/, nor as */Cʀː/. The same shortening as in \"vetr\" also occurs in lax = \"laks\" (as opposed to *\"lakss\", *\"laksʀ\"), botn (as opposed to *\"botnn\", \"*botnʀ\"), and jarl (as opposed to *\"jarll\", *\"jarlʀ\").\n\nFurthermore, wherever the cluster */rʀ/ is expected to exist, such as in the male names \"Ragnarr\", \"Steinarr\" (supposedly \"*Ragnarʀ\", \"*Steinarʀ\"), the result is apparently always /rː/ rather than */rʀ/ or */ʀː/. This is observable in the Runic corpus\n\n\"I/j\" adjacent to \"i\", \"e\", their u-umlauts, and \"æ\" was not possible, nor \"u/v\" adjacent to \"u\", \"o\", their i-umlauts, and \"ǫ\". At the beginning of words, this manifested as a dropping of the initial \"j\" or \"v\". Compare ON \"orð, úlfr, ár\" with English \"word, wolf, year\". In inflections, this manifested as the dropping of the inflectional vowels. Thus, \"klæði\" + \"-i\" remains \"klæði\", and \"sjáum\" in Icelandic progressed to \"sjǫ́um\" > \"sjǫ́m\" > \"sjám\". The \"jj\" and \"ww\" of Proto-Germanic became \"ggj\" and \"ggv\" respectively in Old Norse, a change known as Holtzmann's law.\n\nAn epenthetic vowel became popular by 1200 in Old Danish, 1250 in Old Swedish and Norwegian, and 1300 in Old Icelandic. An unstressed vowel was used which varied by dialect. Old Norwegian exhibited all three: /u/ was used in West Norwegian south of Bergen, as in \"aftur\", \"aftor\" (older \"aptr\"); North of Bergen, /i/ appeared in \"aftir\", \"after\"; and East Norwegian used /a/, \"after\", \"aftær\".\n\nOld Norse was a moderately inflected language with high levels of nominal and verbal inflection. Most of the fused morphemes are retained in modern Icelandic, especially in regard to noun case declensions, whereas modern Norwegian in comparison has moved towards more analytical word structures.\n\nOld Norse had three grammatical genders – masculine, feminine and neuter. Adjectives or pronouns referring to a noun must mirror the gender of that noun, so that one says, \"heill maðr!\" but, \"heilt barn!\" As in other languages, the grammatical gender of an impersonal noun is generally unrelated to an expected natural gender of that noun. While indeed \"karl\", \"man\" is masculine, \"kona\", \"woman\", is feminine, and \"hús\", house, is neuter, so also are \"hrafn\" and \"kráka\", for \"raven\" and \"crow\", masculine and feminine respectively, even in reference to a female raven or a male crow.\n\nAll neuter words have identical nominative and accusative forms, and all feminine words have identical nominative and accusative plurals.\n\nThe gender of some words' plurals does not agree with that of their singulars, such as \"lim\" and \"mund\". Some words, such as \"hungr\", have multiple genders, evidenced by their determiners being declined in different genders within a given sentence.\n\nOld Norse inherited the Proto-Germanic feature of having neuter as the default gender. This means that when the gender of a noun is unknown, adjectives and pronouns referencing it use the neuter gender forms, rather than the masculine or feminine. Thus, if speaking or writing to a general audience, one would say \"velkomit\", \"well is it come,\" rather than \"velkominn\" or \"velkomin\", \"well is [he or she] come,\" as one does not know whether the person hearing it is going to be male or female.\n\nOne generally sees adjectives in their neuter form when used pronominally for this reason. For words more commonly used in this way (rather than to describe a noun) one sees their neuter forms more often than their masculine or feminine. Normally the masculine form would be the most beneficial form of an adjective to learn first, given that the majority of nouns are masculine. In these cases, however, the most practical form to learn first would be the neuter.\n\nNouns, adjectives and pronouns were declined in four grammatical cases—nominative, accusative, genitive and dative, in singular and plural numbers. Adjectives and pronouns were additionally declined in three grammatical genders. Some pronouns (first and second person) could have dual number in addition to singular and plural. The genitive is used partitively, and quite often in compounds and kennings (e.g.: \"Urðarbrunnr\", the well of Urðr; \"Lokasenna\", the gibing of Loki).\n\nThere were several classes of nouns within each gender, the following is an example of the \"strong\" inflectional paradigms:\n\nIn addition to these examples there were the numerous \"weak\" noun paradigms, which had a much higher degree of syncretism between the different cases in its paradigms, i.e. they had fewer forms than the \"strong\" nouns.\n\nA definite article was realised as a suffix, that retained an independent declension e.g. troll (\"a troll\") – trollit (\"the troll\"), hǫll (\" a hall\") – hǫllin (\"the hall\"), armr (\"an arm\") – armrinn (\"the arm\"). This definite article, however, was a separate word, and did not become attached to the noun before later stages of the Old Norse period.\n\nThe earliest inscriptions in Old Norse are runic, from the 8th century. Runes continued to be commonly used until the 15th century and have been recorded to be in use in some form as late as the 19th century in some parts of Sweden. With the conversion to Christianity in the 11th century came the Latin alphabet. The oldest preserved texts in Old Norse in the Latin alphabet date from the middle of the 12th century. Subsequently, Old Norse became the vehicle of a large and varied body of vernacular literature, unique in medieval Europe. Most of the surviving literature was written in Iceland. Best known are the Norse sagas, the Icelanders' sagas and the mythological literature, but there also survives a large body of religious literature, translations into Old Norse of courtly romances, classical mythology, and the Old Testament, as well as instructional material, grammatical treatises and a large body of letters and official documents.\n\nMost of the innovations that appeared in Old Norse spread evenly through the Old Norse area. As a result, the dialects were very similar and considered to be the same language, a language that they sometimes called the Danish tongue (\"Dǫnsk tunga\"), sometimes Norse language (\"Norrœnt mál\"), as evidenced in the following two quotes from Heimskringla by Snorri Sturluson:\n\nHowever, some changes were geographically limited and so created a dialectal difference between Old West Norse and Old East Norse.\n\nAs Proto-Norse evolved into Old Norse, in the 8th century, the effects of the umlauts seem to have been very much the same over the whole Old Norse area. But in later dialects of the language a split occurred mainly between west and east as the use of umlauts began to vary. The typical umlauts (for example \"fylla\" from *\"fullijan\") were better preserved in the West due to later generalizations in the east where many instances of umlaut were removed (many archaic Eastern texts as well as eastern runic inscriptions however portray the same extent of umlauts as in later Western Old Norse).\n\nAll the while, the changes resulting in breaking (for example \"hiarta\" from *\"hertō\") were more influential in the East probably once again due to generalizations within the inflectional system. This difference was one of the greatest reasons behind the dialectalization that took place in the 9th and 10th centuries, shaping an Old West Norse dialect in Norway and the Atlantic settlements and an Old East Norse dialect in Denmark and Sweden.\n\nOld West Norse and Old Gutnish did not take part in the monophthongization which changed \"æi\" (\"ei\") into \"ē\", \"øy\" (\"ey\") and \"au\" into \"ø̄\", nor did certain peripheral dialects of Swedish, as seen in modern Ostrobothnian dialects. Another difference was that Old West Norse lost certain combinations of consonants. The combinations -\"mp\"-, -\"nt\"-, and -\"nk\"- were assimilated into -\"pp\"-, -\"tt\"- and -\"kk\"- in Old West Norse, but this phenomenon was limited in Old East Norse.\n\nHere is a comparison between the two dialects as well as Old Gutnish. It is a transcription from one of the Funbo Runestones (U 990) meaning : \"Veðr and Thane and Gunnar raised this stone after Haursi, their father. God help his spirit\":\n\nThe OEN original text above is transliterated according to traditional scholarly methods, wherein u-umlaut is not regarded in runic Old East Norse. Modern studies have shown that the positions where it applies are the same as for runic Old West Norse. An alternative and probably more accurate transliteration would therefore render the text in OEN as such:\nSome past participles and other words underwent i-umlaut in Old West Norse but not in Old East Norse dialects. Examples of that are Icelandic slegið/sleginn and tekið/tekinn, which in Swedish are slagit/slagen and tagit/tagen. This can also be seen in the Icelandic and Norwegian words sterkur and sterk (\"strong\"), which in Swedish is stark as in Old Swedish. These differences can also be seen in comparison between Norwegian and Swedish.\n\nThe combinations -mp-, -nt-, and -nk- mostly merged to -pp-, -tt- and -kk- in Old West Norse at around the 7th century, marking the first distinction between the Eastern and Western dialects. The following table illustrates this:\n\nAn early difference between Old West Norse and the other dialects was that Old West Norse had the forms \"bú\" \"dwelling\", \"kú\" \"cow\" (accusative) and \"trú\" \"faith\" whereas Old East Norse had \"bó\", \"kó\" and \"tró\". Old West Norse was also characterized by the preservation of \"u\"-umlaut, which meant that for example Proto-Norse *\"tanþu\" \"tooth\" was pronounced \"tǫnn\" and not \"tann\" as in post-runic Old East Norse; OWN \"gǫ́s\" and runic OEN \"gǫ́s\", while post-runic OEN \"gás\" \"goose\".\n\nThe earliest body of text appears in runic inscriptions and in poems composed c. 900 by Þjóðólfr of Hvinir (although the poems are not preserved in contemporary sources, but only in much later manuscripts). The earliest manuscripts are from the period 1150–1200 and concern both legal, religious and historical matters. During the 12th and 13th centuries, Trøndelag and Western Norway were the most important areas of the Norwegian kingdom and they shaped Old West Norse as an archaic language with a rich set of declensions. In the body of text that has come down to us from until c. 1300, Old West Norse had little dialect variation, and Old Icelandic does not diverge much more than the Old Norwegian dialects do from each other.\n\nOld Norwegian differentiated early from Old Icelandic by the loss of the consonant \"h\" in initial position before \"l\", \"n\" and \"r\", thus whereas Old Icelandic manuscripts might use the form \"hnefi\" \"fist\", Old Norwegian manuscripts might use \"nefi\".\n\nFrom the late 13th century, Old Icelandic and Old Norwegian started to diverge more. After c. 1350, the Black Death and following social upheavals seem to have accelerated language changes in Norway. From the late 14th century, the language used in Norway is generally referred to as Middle Norwegian.\n\nOld West Norse underwent a lengthening of initial vowels at some point, especially in Norwegian, so that OWN \"eta\" became \"éta,\" ONW \"akr\" > \"ákr\", OIC \"ek\" > \"ék\".\n\nIn Iceland, initial before was lost. Compare Icelandic \"rangur\" with Norwegian \"vrangr\", OEN \"vrangʀ\". This change is shared with Old Gutnish.\n\nA specifically Icelandic sound, the long, u-umlauted A, spelled Ǫ́ and pronounced , developed circa the early 11th century. It was short-lived, being marked in the Grammatical Treatises and remaining until the end of the 12th century.\n\nAround the 13th century, Œ/Ǿ () merged to Æ (). Thus, pre-13th-century \"grœnn\" 'green' became modern Icelandic \"grænn\". The 12th-century Gray Goose Laws manuscripts distinguish the vowels, and so the Codex Regius copy does as well. However, the 13th-century Codex Regius copy of the Poetic Edda probably relied on newer and/or poorer quality sources—demonstrating either difficulty with or total lack of natural distinction, the manuscripts show separation of the two phonemes in some places, but frequently mix up the letters chosen to distinguish them in others.\n\nTowards the end of the 13th century, Ę () merged to E ().\n\nAround the 11th century, Old Norwegian , , and became , , and . It is debatable whether the sequences represented a consonant cluster, , or a devoicing, .\n\nOrthographic evidence suggests that, in a confined dialect of Old Norwegian, /ɔ/ may have been unrounded before /u/, so that u-umlaut was reversed where the \"u\" had not been eliminated. e.g. \"ǫll\", \"ǫllum\" > \"ǫll\", \"allum\".\n\nThis dialect of Old West Norse was spoken by Icelandic colonies in Greenland. When the colonies died out around the 15th century, the dialect went with it. The phoneme , and some merged to , so that Old Icelandic Þórðr becomes Tortr.\n\nThe following text is from \"Alexanders saga\", an Alexander romance. The manuscript, AM 519 a 4to, is dated c. 1280. The facsimile demonstrates the sigla used by scribes to write Old Norse. Many of these were borrowed from Latin. Without familiarity with these abbreviations, the facsimile will be unreadable to many. In addition, reading the manuscript itself requires familiarity with the letterforms of the native script. The abbreviations are expanded in a version with normalized spelling like the standard normalization system's. Comparing this to the spelling of the same text in Modern Icelandic shows that, while pronunciation has changed greatly, spelling has changed little.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> a printed in uncial. Uncials not encoded separately in Unicode as of this section's writing.\n\nOld East Norse, between 800 and 1100, is called \"Runic Swedish\" in Sweden and \"Runic Danish\" in Denmark, but for geographical not linguistic reasons. Any differences between the two were minute at best during the more ancient stages of this dialect group. Changes had a tendency to occur earlier in the Danish region. Even today many Old Danish changes have still not taken place in modern Swedish. Swedish is therefore the more archaic of the two in both the ancient and the modern languages, sometimes by a profound margin but in general, differences are still minute. The language is called \"runic\" because the body of text appears in runes.\n\nRunic Old East Norse is characteristically archaic in form, especially Swedish (which is still true for modern Swedish compared to Danish). In essence it matches or surpasses the archaicness of post-runic Old West Norse which in its turn is generally more archaic than post-runic Old East Norse. While typically \"Eastern\" in structure, many later post-runic changes and trademarks of OEN had yet to happen.\n\nThe phoneme \"ʀ\", which evolved during the Proto-Norse period from \"z\", was still clearly separated from \"r\" in most positions, even when being geminated, while in OWN it had already merged with \"r\".\n\nMonophthongization of \"æi > ē\" and \"øy, au > ø̄\" started in mid-10th-century Denmark. Compare runic OEN: \"fæigʀ\", \"gæiʀʀ\", \"haugʀ\", \"møydōmʀ\", \"diūʀ\"; with Post-runic OEN: \"fēgher\", \"gēr\", \"hø̄gher\", \"mø̄dōmber\", \"diūr\"; OWN: \"feigr\", \"geirr\", \"haugr\", \"meydómr\", \"dýr\"; from PN *faigiaz, *gaizaz, *haugaz, *mawi- + dōmaz (maidendom; virginity), *diuza ((wild) animal).\n\nFeminine o-stems often preserve the plural ending -aʀ while in OWN they more often merge with the feminine i-stems: (runic OEN) \"*sōlaʀ\", \"*hafnaʀ\"/\"*hamnaʀ\", \"*vāgaʀ\" while OWN \"sólir\", \"hafnir\" and \"vágir\" (modern Swedish \"solar\", \"hamnar\", \"vågar\"; suns, havens, scales; Danish has mainly lost the distinction between the two stems with both endings now being rendered as -er or -e alternatively for the o-stems).\n\nVice versa, masculine i-stems with the root ending in either \"g\" or \"k\" tended to shift the plural ending to that of the ja-stems while OEN kept the original: \"drængiaʀ\", \"*ælgiaʀ\" and \"*bænkiaʀ\" while OWN \"drengir\", \"elgir\" (elks) and \"bekkir\" (modern Danish \"drenge\", \"elge\", \"bænke\", modern Swedish \"drängar\", \"älgar\", \"bänkar\").\n\nThe plural ending of ja-stems were mostly preserved while those of OEN often acquired that of the i-stems: \"*bæðiaʀ\", \"*bækkiaʀ\", \"*væfiaʀ\" while OWN \"beðir\" (beds), \"bekkir\", \"vefir\" (modern Swedish \"bäddar\", \"bäckar\", \"vävar\").\n\nUntil the early 12th century, Old East Norse was very much a uniform dialect. It was in Denmark that the first innovations appeared that would differentiate Old Danish from Old Swedish () as these innovations spread north unevenly (unlike the earlier changes that spread more evenly over the East Norse area) creating a series of isoglosses going from Zealand to Svealand.\n\nIn Old Danish, merged with during the 9th century. From the 11th to 14th centuries, the unstressed vowels -\"a\", -\"o\" and -\"e\" (standard normalization -\"a\", -\"u\" and -\"i\") started to merge into -\"ə\", represented with the letter \"e\". This vowel came to be epenthetic, particularly before \"-ʀ\" endings. At the same time, the voiceless stop consonants \"p\", \"t\" and \"k\" became voiced plosives and even fricative consonants. Resulting from these innovations, Danish has \"kage\" (cake), \"tunger\" (tongues) and \"gæster\" (guests) whereas (Standard) Swedish has retained older forms, \"kaka\", \"tungor\" and \"gäster\" (OEN \"kaka\", \"tungur\", \"gæstir\").\n\nMoreover, the Danish pitch accent shared with Norwegian and Swedish changed into \"stød\" around this time.\n\nAt the end of the 10th and early 11th century initial \"h-\" before \"l\", \"n\" and \"r\" was still preserved in the middle and northern parts of Sweden, and is sporadically still preserved in some northern dialects as \"g-\", e.g. \"gly\" (lukewarm), from \"hlýʀ\". The Dalecarlian dialects developed independently from Old Swedish and as such can be considered separate languages from Swedish.\n\nThis is an extract from \"Västgötalagen\", the Westrogothic law. It is the oldest text written as a manuscript found in Sweden and from the 13th century. It is contemporaneous with most of the Icelandic literature. The text marks the beginning of Old Swedish as a distinct dialect.\n\nDue to Gotland's early isolation from the mainland, many features of Old Norse did not spread from or to the island, and Old Gutnish developed as an entirely separate branch from Old East and West Norse. For example, the diphthong \"ai\" in \"aigu\", \"þair\" and \"waita\" was not retroactively umlauted to \"ei\" as in e.g. Old Icelandic \"eigu\", \"þeir\" and \"veita\". Breaking was especially active in Old Gutnish, leading to forms such as \"bjera\" and \"bjauþa\", mainland \"bera\" and \"bjóða\". Dropping of /w/ in initial /wɾ/ is shared only with Old Icelandic.\n\nThe Gutasaga is the longest text surviving from Old Gutnish. It was written in the 13th century and dealt with the early history of the Gotlanders. This part relates to the agreement that the Gotlanders had with the Swedish king sometime before the 9th century:\n\nOld English and Old Norse were related languages. It is therefore not surprising that many words in Old Norse look familiar to English speakers (e.g., \"armr\" (arm), \"fótr\" (foot), \"land\" (land), \"fullr\" (full), \"hanga\" (to hang), \"standa\" (to stand)). This is because both English and Old Norse stem from a Proto-Germanic mother language. In addition, numerous common, everyday Old Norse words were adopted into the Old English language during the Viking age. A few examples of Old Norse loanwords in modern English are (English/Viking age Old East Norse), in some cases even displacing their Old English cognates:\n\nIn a simple sentence like \"They are both weak\" the extent of the Old Norse loanwords becomes quite clear (Old East Norse with archaic pronunciation: \"Þæiʀ eʀu báðiʀ wæikiʀ\" while Old English \"híe syndon bégen (þá) wáce\"). The words \"they\" and \"weak\" are both borrowed from Old Norse, and the word \"both\" might also be a borrowing, though this is disputed (cf. German \"beide\"). While the number of loanwords adopted from the Norse was not as numerous as that of Norman French or Latin, their depth and everyday nature make them a substantial and very important part of every day English speech as they are part of the very core of the modern English vocabulary.\n\nWords like \"bull\" and \"Thursday\" are more difficult when it comes to their origins. \"Bull\" may be from either Old English \"bula\" or Old Norse \"buli\", while \"Thursday\" may be a borrowing, or it could simply be from the Old English \"Þunresdæg\", which could have been influenced by the Old Norse cognate. The word \"are\" is from Old English \"earun\"/\"aron\", which stems back to Proto-Germanic as well as the Old Norse cognates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12701758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12701758", "title": "Pacific Biological Laboratories", "text": "Pacific Biological Laboratories\n\nPacific Biological Laboratories, abbreviated PBL, was a biological supply house that sold preserved animals and prepared specimen microscope slides, many of which were of maritime aquatic species, to schools, museums, and research institutions. It was located in a building on what is now Monterey's Cannery Row on Monterey Bay in Monterey County, California.\n\nThe building, activities, and business were fictionalized as \"Western Biological Laboratory\" by John Steinbeck in his novel \"Cannery Row\", as was a character based on one of its founders, Ed Ricketts.\n\nThe company was started by Ed Ricketts with his college roommate and business partner Albert Galigher in 1923. Originally located in Pacific Grove at 165 Fountain Avenue, the lab was moved to 740 Ocean View Avenue, Monterey, California around January, 1930, where Ricketts became sole owner. Today, that location is 800 Cannery Row. As a result of marital problems between Ricketts and his first wife Anna, the lab served as Ricketts's home for some time beginning in 1936.\n\nOn November 25, 1936, a fire broke out at the Del Mar Cannery next to the lab (site of today's Monterey Bay Aquarium) and most of the contents of the laboratory were destroyed. The manuscript for \"Between Pacific Tides\" survived the fire as it had already been sent to Stanford University for publication. It was Steinbeck that saved the lab financially after the fire with the purchase of half the company's stock.\n\nThe onset of World War II led to the decline of the commercial operation of the lab. However, the legacy of the specimens collected and distributed by PBL lives on. Museums throughout the United States contain specimens collected by Ricketts, including the Field Museum in Chicago, the Smithsonian Institution, the California Academy of Sciences, the American Museum of Natural History, the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University and the Museum of Zoology at Lund University in Sweden.\n\nThe lab became a meeting place for intellectuals, artists, and writers, including Bruce Ariss, Joseph Campbell, Henry Miller, John Steinbeck, Lincoln Steffens, and Francis Whitaker.\nRicketts produced his first scientific publication, a catalog of marine biological specimens recorded in photographs and drawings. Originally meant for advertisement it may well have been the first record of Monterey Bay intertidal species.\n\nAfter his death the lab was bought by many of Ricketts' old friends who continued meeting there every Wednesday evening very much like in the past. They sold the building to the city of Monterey in 1993. It was restored by the Cannery Row Foundation which was given the Governor's Award for Historic Preservation.\n\nOn May 14, 1997, the 100th anniversary of Ricketts' birth, a commemorative plaque was placed on the 165 Fountain Avenue location by the Pacific Grove Heritage Society and the Pacific Grove Museum of Natural History Association. The Pacific Biological Laboratories is on the National Register of Historic Places.\n"}
{"id": "40476642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40476642", "title": "Poet as legislator", "text": "Poet as legislator\n\nThe theme of poet as legislator reached its grandiose peak in the Romantic era, epitomised in the view of the lonely, alienated poet as 'unacknowledged legislator' to the whole world.\n\nHowever the concept had a long prehistory in Western culture, with classical figures like Orpheus or Solon being appealed to as precedents for the poet's civilising role.\n\nPlato's opposition to poets in his ideal Republic was predicated on the contemporary existence of Homeric expounders who claimed that \"a man ought to regulate the tenour of his whole life by this poet's directions\". Plato only allowed the already censured poet to guide the young, to be an acknowledged legislator at the price of total external control.\n\nLess threatened by the poetic role, the Romans by contrast saw poetry, with Horace, as primarily pleasing, and only secondarily as instructive.\n\nBuilding the view of the fifteenth century Florentine Neoplatonists on the poet as seer, however, Sir Philip Sidney developed a more powerful concept of the poet as overtopping the philosopher, historian and lawyer to stand out as \"the monarch...of all sciences.\n\nSuch a viewpoint was more or less institutionalised in Augustan literature, Johnson's Rasselas maintaining for example that the poet \"must write as the interpreter of nature and the legislator of mankind\" – a fully public, even patriotic role moreover\n\nBy contrast the Romantic view of the poet as \"unackowledged\" legislator emerges at the turm of the century in the writing of William Godwin, with his anarchic view of the poet as \"the legislator of generations and the moral instructor of the world\".\n\nIt received its most memorable formulation however in Percy Bysshe Shelley's 1820 \"A Defence of Poetry\". Shelley maintained that, through their powers of imaginative understanding, 'Poets' (in the widest sense, of ancient Greece) were able to identify and formulate emerging socio-cultural trends; and were as a result \"the hierophants of an unapprehended inspiration...the unacknowledged legislators of the world\".\n\nThe grand claims of the Romantics began to give way in the twentieth century to a more ironic stance – Yeats speaking for his calling in general when he wrote \"We have no gift to set a statesman right\".\n\nWhat remained of the Shelley claim was to be further diminished by Postmodernism's distrust for grand narratives, if not perhaps destroyed entirely.\n"}
{"id": "584318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=584318", "title": "Polarization (politics)", "text": "Polarization (politics)\n\nIn politics, polarization (or polarisation) can refer to the divergence of political attitudes to ideological extremes. Almost all discussions of polarization in political science consider polarization in the context of political parties and democratic systems of government. When polarization occurs in a two-party system, like the United States, moderate voices often lose power and influence.\n\nPolitical polarization refers to the cases in which an individual's stance on a given issue, policy, or person is more likely to be strictly defined by their identification with a particular political party (e.g., Democrat or Republican) or ideology (e.g., liberal or conservative). According to DiMaggio et al. (1996), \"Polarization is both a state and a process. Polarization as a state refers to the extent to which opinions on an issue are opposed in relation to some theoretical maximum. Polarization as a process refers to the increase in such opposition over time.\" Some political scientists argue that polarization requires divergence on a broad range of issues based on a consistent set of beliefs. Others argue polarization occurs when there are stark partisan or ideological divides, even if the opinion is polarized only on a few issues.\n\nPolitical scientists typically distinguish between two types of political polarization: elite polarization and popular polarization. \"Elite polarization\" refers to the polarization of political elites, like party organizers and elected officials, while \"popular polarization\" (or mass polarization) refers to the polarization in the electorate and general public. In either context, opinions and policy positions are characterized by strict adherence to party lines. Elite polarization and popular polarization can occur at the same time or independent of each other. A central issue in the study of political polarization is investigating the relationship between elite polarization and popular polarization, particularly any causal relationships between the two.\n\nElite polarization refers to polarization in the party-in-government and party-as-organization. It occurs when party members (both elected government officials and activists within the party organization itself) grow more internally homogenous on policy positions and more divergent relative to members of other parties. Polarized political parties are internally cohesive, unified, programmatic, and ideologically distinct; they are typically found in a parliamentary system of democratic governance. \n\nIn a two-party system like the U.S., a polarized legislature has two important characteristics: first, there is little-to-no ideological overlap between members of the two parties; and second, almost all conflict over legislation and policies is split across the broad liberal/conservative ideological divide. This leads to the conflation of political parties and ideologies (i.e., Democrat and Republican become nearly perfect synonyms for liberal and conservative) and the collapse of the ideological center.\n\nThe vast majority of studies on elite polarization focus on legislative and deliberative bodies. For many years, political scientists measured polarization by examining the ratings of party members published by interest groups, but now, most analyze roll-call voting patterns to determine trends in party-line voting and party unity. Many political scientists studying American politics rely on Poole and Rosenthal's DW-NOMINATE scores, which assign a single liberal-conservative score to each congressperson, enabling comparisons of members from different Congresses. There is much more research on polarization in Congress than on polarization in the other branches of government or in state governments. Azzimonti's political polarization index is more comprehensive instead because it is based on media coverage of newspaper articles reporting political disagreement about policy in all branches of government. Recent work by Gentzkow, Shapiro, and Taddy has used the text of the Congressional Record to document differences in speech patterns between Republicans and Democrats as a measure of polarization. They find that polarization has increased dramatically since 1994.\n\nPopular polarization, or mass polarization, occurs when the electorate's attitudes towards political issues, policies, and people are starkly divided along partisan lines. Members of the electorate and general public typically become less moderate in cases of popular polarization. In the U.S., media accounts typically simplify popular polarization to a divide between red states and blue states or a \"culture war\" between values-voters and progressives. Political scientists, though, generally agree that such accounts are too simplistic and ignore the complex factors that can account for polarization. Many political scientists consider political polarization a top-down process, in which elite polarization leads to – or at least precedes – popular polarization. However, polarization among elites does not necessarily produce polarization within the electorate, and polarized electoral choices can often reflect elite polarization rather than voters' preferences.\n\nPolitical scientists studying popular polarization typically rely on data from opinion polls and election surveys. They look for trends in respondents' opinions on a given issue, their voting history, and their political ideology (conservative, liberal, moderate, etc.), and they try to relate those trends to respondents' party identification and other potentially polarizing factors (like geographic location or income bracket). Political scientists typically limit their inquiry to issues and questions that have been constant over time, in order to compare the present day to what the political climate has historically been. Oft-cited public opinion polls in the U.S. include those run by the Pew Research Center and Gallup, Inc., while political scientists also rely on more academic surveys, like the General Social Survey and the election surveys and \"feeling thermometer\" polls conducted by National Election Studies.\n\nThere are various causes of political polarization and these include political parties, redistricting, the public's political ideology, and the mass media.\n\nSome scholars argue that diverging parties has been one of the major driving forces of polarization as policy platforms have become more distant. This theory is based on recent trends in the United States Congress, where the majority party prioritizes the positions that are most aligned with its party platform and political ideology. The adoption of more ideologically distinct positions by political parties can cause polarization among both elites and the electorate. For example, after the passage of the Voting Rights Act, the number of conservative Democrats in Congress decreased, while the number of conservative Republicans increased. Within the electorate during the 1970s, Southern Democrats shifted toward the Republican Party, showing polarization among both the elites and the electorate of both main parties.\n\nPolitical scientists have shown politicians have an incentive to advance and support polarized positions. These argue that during the early 1990s, the Republican Party used polarizing tactics to become the majority party in the United States House of Representatives—which political scientists Thomas E. Mann and Norman Ornstein refer to as Newt Gingrich's \"guerrilla war.\" What political scientists have found is that moderates are less likely to run than are candidates who are in line with party doctrine, otherwise known as \"party fit.\"Other theories state politicians who cater to more extreme groups within their party tend to be more successful, helping them stay in office while simultaneously pulling their constituency toward a polar extreme. A study by Nicholson (2012) found voters are more polarized by contentious statements from leaders of the opposing party than from the leaders of their own party. As a result, political leaders may be more likely to take polarized stances.\n\nWith regards to multiparty systems, Giovanni Sartori (1966, 1976) claims the splitting of ideologies in the public constituency causes further divides within the political parties of the countries. He theorizes that the extremism of public ideological movement is the basis for the creation of highly polarized multiparty systems. Sartori named this polarizing phenomenon polarized pluralism and claimed it would lead to further polarization in many opposing directions (as opposed to in simply two directions, as in a polarized two-party system) over policy issues. Polarization in multiparty systems can also be defined along two ideological extremes, like in the case of India in the 1970s. Ideological splits within a number of India's major parties resulted in two polarized coalitions on the right and left, each consisting of multiple political parties.\n\nPolitical fund-raisers and donors can also exert significant influence and control over legislators. Party leaders are expected to be productive fund-raisers, in order to support the party's campaigns. After \"Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission\", special interests in the U.S. were able to greatly impact elections through increased undisclosed spending, notably through Super political action committees. Some, such as \"Washington Post\" opinion writer Robert Kaiser, argued this allowed wealthy people, corporations, unions, and other groups to push the parties' policy platforms toward ideological extremes, resulting in a state of greater polarization. Other scholars, such as Raymond J. La Raja and David L. Wiltse, note that this does not necessarily hold true for mass donors to political campaigns. These scholars argue a single donor who is polarized and contributes large sums to a campaign does not seem to usually drive a politician toward political extremes.\n\nIn democracies and other representative governments, citizens vote for the political actors who will represent them. Some scholars argue that political polarization reflects the public's ideology and voting preferences. Dixit and Weibull (2007) claim that political polarization is a natural and regular phenomenon. They argue that there is a link between public differences in ideology and the polarization of representatives, but that an increase in preference differences is usually temporary and ultimately results in compromise.\n\nMorris P. Fiorina (2006, 2008) posits the hypothesis that polarization is a phenomenon which does not hold for the public, and instead is formulated by commentators to draw further division in government. Other studies indicate that cultural differences focusing on ideological movements and geographical polarization within the United States constituency is correlated with rises in overall political polarization between 1972 and 2004.\n\nReligious, ethnic, and other cultural divides within the public have often influenced the emergence of polarization. According to Layman et al. (2005), the ideological split between U.S. Republicans and Democrats also crosses into the religious cultural divide. They claim that Democrats have generally become more moderate in religious views whereas Republicans have become more traditionalist. For example, political scientists have shown that in the United States, voters who identify as Republican are more likely to vote for a strongly evangelical candidate than Democratic voters. This correlates with the rise in polarization in the United States. Another theory contends that religion does not contribute to full-group polarization, but rather, coalition and party activist polarization causes party shifts toward a political extreme.\n\nIn some post-colonial countries, the public may be polarized along ethnic divides that remain from the colonial regime. In South Africa in the late 1980s, members of the conservative, pro-apartheid National Party of South Africa were no longer supportive of apartheid, and, therefore, no longer ideologically aligned with their party. Dutch Afrikaners, white English, and native Africans split based on racial divisions, causing polarization along ethnic lines.\n\nEconomic inequality can also motivate the polarization of the public. For example, in post-World War I Germany, the Communist Workers Party, and the National Socialists, a fascist party, emerged as the dominant political ideologies and proposed to address Germany's economic problems in drastically different ways. In Venezuela in the late 20th century, the entrance of the oil industry into the local economy caused economic disparities that led to sharp ideological divides. As a result, the disenfranchised working class aligned with extreme socialist leader Hugo Chávez.\n\nGerrymandering or the manipulation of the electoral borders to favor a political party or the electoral outcome affect the redistricting process in the U.S. It has been linked to the rise in polarization by some political scientists. Some scholars argue that the practice of redistricting creates political polarization by making more homogeneous, ideologically distinct districts. This results in elected representatives who represent more polarized beliefs. According to Carson et al. (2007), this makes it easier for more extreme candidates to win elections (and re-election) as the makeup of the voting block shifts in the direction of a polar extreme. This effect is more modest when analyzed over multiple election cycles and in the United States as a whole. Politically motivated redistricting has been associated with the rise in partisanship in the U.S. House of Representatives between 1992 and 1994. Many political scientists however, argue that redistricting practices have not played a major role in causing political polarization. The impact of redistricting on political polarization is measurable, but over broad areas and time periods, the effect of redistricting on polarization is found to be minimal.\n\nThe mass media has grown as an institution over the past half-century. Political scientists argue that this has particularly affected the voting public in the last three decades, as previously less partisan viewers are given more polarized news media choices. The mass media's current, fragmented, high-choice environment has induced a movement of the audience from more even-toned political programming to more antagonistic and one-sided broadcasts and articles. These programs tend to appeal to partisan viewers who watch the polarized programming as a self-confirming source for their ideologies. Countries with less diversified but emerging media markets, such as China and South Korea, have become more polarized due to the diversification of political media. In addition, most search engines and social networks (e.g., Google, Facebook) now utilize computer algorithms as filters, which personalize web content based on a user's search history, location, and previous clicking patterns, creating more polarized access to information. This method of personalizing web content results in \"filter bubbles\", a term coined by digital activist Eli Pariser that refers to the polarized ideological bubbles that are created by computer algorithms filtering out unrelated information and opposing views.\n\nA 2011 study found ideological segregation of online news consumption is lower than the segregation of most offline news consumption and lower than the segregation of face-to-face interactions. This suggests that the filter bubbles effects of online media consumption are exaggerated. Other research also shows that online media does not contribute to the increased polarization of opinions.\n\nA 2017 study found that providing people with impartial, objective information has the potential to reduce political polarization, but the effect of information on polarization is highly sensitive to contextual factors. Specifically, polarization over government spending was reduced when people were provided with a \"Taxpayer Receipt,\" but not when they were also asked how they wanted the money to be spent. This suggests that subtle factors like the mood and tone of partisan news sources may have a large effect on how the same information is interpreted.\n\nThe implications of political polarization \"are not entirely clear and may include some benefits as well as detrimental consequences.\" While its exact effects are disputed, it clearly alters the political process and the political composition of the general public. Solomon Messing and Sean J. Westwood state that individuals do not necessarily become polarized through media because they choose their own exposure, which tends to already align with their views.\n\nNegative effects of polarization on the United States Congress include increased gridlock and partisanship at the cost of quality and quantity of passed legislation. It also incentivizes stall tactics and closed rules, such as filibusters on non-contentious issues and excluding minority party members from committee deliberations. These strategies hamper transparency, oversight, and the government's ability to handle long-term domestic issues, especially those regarding the distribution of benefits. Further, they foster animosity, as majority parties lose bipartisan and legislative coordination trying to expedite legislation to overcome them.\n\nSome scholars claim that political polarization is not so pervasive or destructive in influence, contending that partisan agreement is the historical trend in Congress and still frequent in the modern era, including on bills of political importance. Some studies have found approximately 80% of House bills passed in the modern era to have had support from both parties.\n\nOpinions on polarization's effects on the public are mixed. Some argue that the growing polarization in government has directly contributed to political polarization in the electorate, but this is not unanimous.\n\nSome scholars argue that polarization lowers public interest in politics, party identification and voter turnout. It encourages confrontational dynamics between parties that can lower overall public trust and approval in government., and causes the public to perceive the general political debate as less civil, which can alienate voters. More polarized candidates, especially when voters aren't aware of the increase, also tend to be less representative of the public's wishes.\n\nOn the other hand, others assert that elite polarization has galvanized the public's political participation in the United States, citing greater voting and nonvoting participation, engagement and investment in campaigns, and increased positive attitude toward government responsiveness. Polarized parties become more ideologically unified, furthering voter knowledge about their positions and increasing their standard to similarly-aligned voters.\n\nAs Mann and Ornstein argue, political polarization and the proliferation of media sources have \"reinforce[d] tribal divisions, while enhancing a climate where facts are no longer driving the debate and deliberation, nor are they shared by the larger public.\" As other scholars have argued, the media often support and provoke the stall and closed rules tactics that disrupt regular policy procedure.\n\nWhile the media are not immune to general public opinion and reduced polarization allows them to appeal to a larger audience, polarized environments make it easier for the media and interest groups to hold elected officials more accountable for their policy promises and positions, generally healthy for democracy.\n\nJudicial systems can also be affected by the implications of political polarization. For the United States, in particular, polarization lowers confirmation rates of judges; In 2012, the confirmation rate of presidential circuit court appointments was approximately 50% as opposed to the above 90% rate in the late 1970s and early 1980s. More polarized parties have more aggressively block nominees and used tactics to hinder executive agendas. Political scientist Sarah Binder (2000) argues that \"senatorial intolerance for the opposing party’s nominees is itself a function of polarization.\" Negative consequences of this include higher vacancy rates on appellate courts, longer case-processing times and increased caseloads for judges.\n\nPolitical scientists argue that in highly polarized periods, nominees become less reflective of the moderate voter as \"polarization impacts the appointment and ideological tenor of new federal judges.\" It also influences the politics of senatorial advice and consent, giving partisan presidents the power to appoint judges far to the left or right of center on the federal bench, obstructing the legitimacy of the judicial branch.\n\nUltimately, the increasing presence of ideology in a judicial system impacts the judiciary's credibility. Polarization can generate strong partisan critiques of federal judges, which can damage the public perception of the justice system and the legitimacy of the courts as nonpartisan legal arbiters. \n\nPolitical polarization can undercut unified agreement on foreign policy and harm a nation's international standing; divisiveness on foreign affairs strengthens enemies, discourages allies and destabilize a nation's determination.\n\nPolitical scientists point to two primary implications of polarization with regards to the foreign policy of the United States\". First, when the United States conducts relations abroad and appears divided, allies are less likely to trust its promises, enemies are more likely to predict its weaknesses, and uncertainty as to the country's position in world affairs rises. Second, elite opinion has a significant impact on the public's perception and understanding of foreign policy, a field where Americans have less prior knowledge to rely on.\n\nOutside of the U.S., there are plenty of modern day examples of polarization in politics. A bulk of the research into global polarization comes from Europe. One example includes Pasokification in Greece. This is the trend from a shift from the center-left to a more far-left stance. Pasokification was caused by the Greek populous growing dissatisfied with the country's centrist, left wing party and how they handled the Great Recession and the austerity measures the European Union put in place during recovery. Although the shift further to the left was a massive benefits to the liberal population in Greece, the results in Greece (as well as other nations like Germany, Sweden and Italy) have not been able to sustain themselves. Parties who have made the shift left have recently shown a decline in the voting booths, evidence their supporters are uneasy of the future. \n\nThe shift in Greece to the far-left is similar to the shift in countries like Poland, France and the U.K. to more far-right conservative positions. In those countries, there is heavy anti-Islam sentiment and the rise of populist commentary. The general population of the right in these countries tends to hold onto these more aggressive stances and pulls the parties further to the right. These stances include populist messages with Islamophobic, isolationist, and anti-LGBTQ language. Much of the polarization in these nations leads to either a more socialist left wing party, or more nationalist right wing party. These more polarized parties grow from the discontent of more moderate parties inability to provide progressive changes in either direction. \n\nThere have long been numerous scholarly debates that argue over the concept of political polarization, both in whether it is valid, and how it can accurately be measured. There are four primary arguments against the validity of political polarization: 1) Limitations of the Two-Party System, 2) Issue Partisanship, 3) Cultural Differences, and 4) Westernized Focuses.\n\nBy solely acknowledging voting patterns, one cannot make an accurate conclusion as to the presence or absence of political polarization, because in the United States, there is a limited number of presidential candidates in the two-party system. To assume that the majority of voters are mostly or completely in agreement with the plethora of political issues within their party is a false assumption. Despite contrary beliefs, there are many liberal Republicans and conservative Democrats in the U.S. who have differing political beliefs within their parties. However, these voters most often align with their party because of the limited choice of candidates, and to do otherwise (i.e. vote for a third-party candidate) is perceived as a waste of time.\n\nDespite various claims that argue American society is more polarized today than leading up to the U.S. Civil War, numerous scholars explain that much evidence shows there is a relatively stable public opinion on the majority of sociopolitical issues. Where the most polarization exists, rather, is in the \"hot topic\" or \"sensitive\" issues (e.g. abortion, gay marriage, U.S. involvement in war). Over-reliance on focusing on opinions regarding social issues to draw conclusion about political polarization is not a valid measurement to fully represent the concept.\n\nIn regard to views on public policies, Fiorina and Abrams (2008) found virtually no evidence of an increase in widespread political polarization over the past thirty years. Nonetheless, many scholars explain that it is not an increase in ideological coherence among individuals which separates them; it is the partisan extremism (i.e. Democrat v. Republican) which eventually separates voters into one party or the other.\n\nProponents of the cultural differences argument are critical of political polarization because of numerous factors, influences, and demographics. Among voter demographic features, there is much evidence of race, sex, age, and educational attainment as being some of the main influences in voting behaviors. In addition to these factors, the geographic region often plays a major role in voting behavior. Lastly, one's socioeconomic status is a reliable predictor of voting behavior. The combination of these factors and influences compel researchers to reconsider the causes of political polarization.\n\nMuch like many academic studies, political polarization scholars often are too narrowly focused within one nation and, thus, make broad generalizations regarding the concept from a national study. To have a better picture of the presence or absence of political polarization, scholars must consider widening the scope of their studies to the international contexts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10034332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10034332", "title": "Relational art", "text": "Relational art\n\nRelational art or relational aesthetics is a mode or tendency in fine art practice originally observed and highlighted by French art critic Nicolas Bourriaud. Bourriaud defined the approach as \"a set of artistic practices which take as their theoretical and practical point of departure the whole of human relations and their social context, rather than an independent and private space.\" The artist can be more accurately viewed as the \"catalyst\" in relational art, rather than being at the centre.\n\nOne of the first attempts to analyze and categorize art from the 1990s, the idea of relational art was developed by Nicolas Bourriaud in 1998 in his book \"Esthétique relationnelle\" (\"Relational Aesthetics\"). The term was first used in 1996, in the catalogue for the exhibition \"Traffic\" curated by Bourriaud at CAPC musée d'art contemporain de Bordeaux. \"Traffic\" included the artists that Bourriaud would continue to refer to throughout the 1990s, such as Henry Bond, Vanessa Beecroft, Maurizio Cattelan, Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster, Liam Gillick, Christine Hill, Carsten Höller, Pierre Huyghe, Miltos Manetas, Jorge Pardo, Philippe Parreno, and Rirkrit Tiravanija. The exhibition took its title and inspiration from Jacques Tati's film \"Trafic\"(1971), in which Tati's protagonist is a Parisian automobile designer preparing a new model for an international auto show. In a \"denoument\" that became a fundamental relational aesthetics strategy, particularly for Tiravanija, Tati's entire film is about the designer's journey to the auto show at which he arrives just in time for the show to close.\n\nBourriaud wishes to approach art in a way that ceases \"to take shelter behind Sixties art history\", and instead seeks to offer different criteria by which to analyse the often opaque and open-ended works of art of the 1990s. To achieve this, Bourriaud imports the language of the 1990s internet boom, using terminology such as user-friendliness, interactivity and DIY (do-it-yourself). In his 2002 book \"Postproduction: Culture as Screenplay: How Art Reprograms the World\", Bourriaud describes \"Relational Aesthetics\" as works that take as their point of departure the changing mental space opened by the internet.\n\nBourriaud explores the notion of relational aesthetics through examples of what he calls relational art. According to Bourriaud, relational art encompasses \"a set of artistic practices which take as their theoretical and practical point of departure the whole of human relations and their social context, rather than an independent and private space.\" The artwork creates a social environment in which people come together to participate in a shared activity. Bourriaud claims \"the role of artworks is no longer to form imaginary and utopian realities, but to actually be ways of living and models of action within the existing real, whatever scale chosen by the artist.\"\n\nRobert Stam, the head of new media and film studies at New York University, coined a term for the shared activity group: witnessing publics. Witnessing publics are \"that loose collection of individuals, constituted by and through the media, acting as observers of injustices that might otherwise go unreported or unanswered.\" The meaning of relational art is created when arts perception is altered while leaving the original artifact intact. \n\nIn relational art, the audience is envisaged as a community. Rather than the artwork being an encounter between a viewer and an object, relational art produces encounters between people. Through these encounters, meaning is elaborated \"collectively\", rather than in the space of individual consumption.\n\nWriter and director Ben Lewis has suggested that relational art is the new \"ism\", in analogue with \"ism\"s of earlier periods such as impressionism, expressionism and cubism.\n\nIn \"Antagonism and Relational Aesthetics\", published in 2004 in \"October\", Claire Bishop describes the aesthetic of Palais de Tokyo as a \"laboratory\", the \"curatorial modus operandi\" of art produced in the 1990s. Bishop writes, \"An effect of this insistent promotion of these ideas as artists-as-designer, function over contemplation, and open-endedness over aesthetic resolution is often ultimately to enhance the status of the curator, who gains credit for stage-managing the overall laboratory experience. As Hal Foster warned in the mid-1990s, 'the institution may overshadow the work that it otherwise highlights: it becomes the spectacle, it collects the cultural capital, and the director-curator becomes the star.'\" Bishop identifies Bourriaud's book as an important first step in identifying tendencies in the art of the 1990s but also writes in the same essay that such work “seems to derive from a creative misreading of poststructuralist theory: rather than the interpretations of a work of art being open to continual reassessment, the work of art itself is argued to be in perpetual flux.” Bishop also asks, \"if relational art produces human relations, then the next logical question to ask is what \"types\" of relations are being produced, for whom, and why?\" She continues that \"the relations set up by relational aesthetics are not intrinsically democratic, as Bourriaud suggests, since they rest too comfortably within an ideal of subjectivity as whole and of community as immanent togetherness.\"\n\nIn \"Traffic Control\", published one year later in \"Artforum\", artist and critic Joe Scanlan goes one step further in ascribing to relational aesthetics a palpable peer pressure. Scanlan writes, \"Firsthand experience has convinced me that relational aesthetics has more to do with peer pressure than collective action or egalitarianism, which would suggest that one of the best ways to control human behavior is to practice relational aesthetics.\"\n\nIn 2002, Bourriaud curated an exhibition at the San Francisco Art Institute, \"Touch: Relational Art from the 1990s to Now\", \"an exploration of the interactive works of a new generation of artists.\" Exhibited artists included Angela Bulloch, Liam Gillick, Felix Gonzalez-Torres, Jens Haaning, Philippe Parreno, Gillian Wearing and Andrea Zittel. Critic Chris Cobb suggests that Bourriaud's \"snapshot\" of 1990s art is a confirmation of the term (and idea) of relational art, while illustrating \"different forms of social interaction as art that deal fundamentally with issues regarding public and private space.\"\n\nIn 2008, Guggenheim Museum curator Nancy Spector organized an exhibition with most of the artists associated with Relational Aesthetics, but the term itself was shelved in favor of calling the show \"Theanyspacewhatever\". The exhibition included stalwarts Bulloch, Gillick, Gonzalez-Foerster, Höller, Huyghe, and Tiravanija, along with loosely affiliated artists Maurizio Cattelan, Douglas Gordon, Jorge Pardo, and Andrea Zittel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58189093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58189093", "title": "Robert Foster Cherry Award", "text": "Robert Foster Cherry Award\n\nThe Robert Foster Cherry Award is a prize given biennially by Baylor University for \"great teaching\". The Cherry Award honors professors at the College or University level, in the English-speaking world, with established track records of teaching excellence and the ability to inspire students. Robert Foster Cherry, a graduate of Baylor University (A.B., 1929), made an estate bequest to establish the award. In a typical award cycle, three Finalists are selected based on nomination packages. The Finalists then compete for the award by giving a series of lectures at Baylor University. Each Finalist receives $15,000 and the ultimate award Recipient receives an additional $250,000 prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54289075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54289075", "title": "Sila (mythology)", "text": "Sila (mythology)\n\nSila (alternatively spelled Si'la or called Si'lat) is a supernatural creature assigned to the jinn in Arabian folklore. They are described as talented shapeshifters often appearing in human form and female. Accordingly they are said to seduce men, marry them or even give birth a child from a relationship between human and jinn.\n\n"}
{"id": "10702240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10702240", "title": "Symbolic convergence theory", "text": "Symbolic convergence theory\n\nSymbolic Convergence Theory (SCT) is a communication theory developed by Ernest Bormann where people share common fantasies and these collections of individuals are transformed into a cohesive group. SCT offers an explanation for the appearance of a group's cohesiveness, consisting of shared emotions, motives, and meanings. Through SCT, individuals can build a community or a group consciousness which grows stronger if they share a cluster of fantasy themes. Symbolic convergence theory provides a description of the dynamic tendencies within systems of social interaction that cause communicative practices and forms to evolve. This theory allows theorists and practitioners to anticipate or predict what will happen and explain what did happen. One thing SCT does not do is allow for control of human communication. It attempts to explain how communication can create and sustain group consciousness through the sharing of narratives or fantasies.\n\nTo foster this cohesiveness, dramatizing or using fantasy stories are significant types of communication involved in SCT. SCT explains that meanings, emotions, values, and the motives for action are in the communication contexts by people trying to make sense out of a common experience. It explores the human tendency of trying to understand events in terms of the people involved, who have certain personality traits and motivations, and have agency over how the events unfold. SCT was first proposed by Ernest Bormann in the \"Quarterly Journal of Speech\" in 1972.\n\nBormann and his colleagues at the University of Minnesota introduced SCT as a framework for discovering, describing, and explaining the dynamic process by which humans come to share symbolic reality. Bormann defines the basic communicative dynamic of symbolic convergence theory as, \"the sharing of group fantasies which bring about symbolic convergence for the participants\" (p. 4). It is a process through which collectives create and share a consciousness and develop a common symbolic reality.\n\nSymbolic Convergence Theory is related to attribution theory in that it deals with the human tendency to attribute meaning to signs and objects in order to make sense of them. The process of symbolic convergence resembles empathic communication.\n\nSCT has a three-part structure:\n\nPlato's classical Allegory of the Cave illustrates the creation of a shared perception in the manner of Symbolic Convergence Theory. As show to the right, a group of prisoners are seated in a cave and can only see what is projected on the wall, they have no direct access to the reality the shadows represent. The shadows become language symbols for the prisoners. They may discuss what they see and form agreements on their perceptions. Their process of discussion and agreement on perceptions is Symbolic Convergence Theory in practice. The prisoners can only create their perception of reality from the shadows cast of the wall, however they can not know if they are seeing the shadows of real objects, or distortions of reality, or illusions, or if anything has been omitted from their perceived reality. \n\nUnlike the traditional ideas of what fantasy means, Bormann uses the word to refer to \"the creative and imaginative interpretation of events that fulfills a psychological or rhetorical need. Fantasy themes are used to construct a rhetorical vision or to dramatize messages embraced by the whole group. They are the means through which interpretation is accomplished through communication. SCT isn't concerned with finding truth, but the reaction from the group when these fantasies are shared. Fantasy themes exist in the form of a word, a phrase, or a statement, which attempt to define past events,\npredict future events, or illustrate present events that are chronologically or spatially removed from the actual activities of the group. Most of the time, these fantasies trigger a chain reaction within the group where they will contribute more and more to the conversation or fantasy. Bormann sees these fantasy themes fulfilling a psychological or rhetorical need through creative and organized interpretations of events. Fantasy theme analysis is a humanistic method of rhetorical criticism.\n\nFantasy themes are broken down into the following three forms:\n\nA symbolic cue is a word, phrase, slogan, or a nonverbal sign or gesture that works to trigger previously shared fantasies and emotions. An example of a symbolic cue would be a bumper sticker, which actuates the observer into a larger shared reality. Symbolic cues can also heighten a group's cohesiveness.\n\nA fantasy type is a fantasy theme that has currency across a large number of rhetorical visions. By providing known references, they help make sense out of a new phenomenon.\n\nAn example of a fantasy type would be when Richard Nixon was campaigning through his home state of California in 1952. A fund was put together by some wealthy Southern California businessman on behalf of Nixon. The newspapers picked this up and ran headlines such as \"Secret Rich Men's Trust Fund Keeps Nixon in Style Far Beyond His Salary\". The purpose of this fund was to help Nixon pay for expenses that he could not otherwise pay for out of his income. National newspapers were two to one in the favor of dropping Nixon from the ticket after this and his only hope was to find a way to regain public trust and support. Six days after the crisis, Nixon addressed the public by radio to respond to the charges against him. A fantasy theme emerging from this story would be Nixon presenting himself as the American dream. During his speech over the radio, he emphasized how he made his own way in the world and had to work for living. He also said, \"How does a candidate pay for political expenses not covered by the government? First, is to be a rich man, which I am not. I feel that it is essential in this country of ours that a man of modest means can run for President.\" He offers autobiographical references which allow him to appear as the average man. This is an appropriate fantasy theme because it developed a response to the allegations that he is not a rich man who is getting money from everyone, but a hard working man who started from the ground and worked upwards.\n\nA saga is the telling and re-telling of the accomplishments and events in the life of an individual, group, organization, or larger entity such as a nation. For instance, examples of American sagas include \"the spirit of entrepreneurship\" and \"the power of the ballot box.\" Symbolic convergence theorists argue that the Soviet Union had difficulty maintaining cohesion of the fifteen republics due to the weakening of the communist rhetorical vision and dwindling sagas.\n\nA rhetorical vision is a composite drama that unifies people in a common symbolic reality.\n\nA rhetorical vision has five elements:\n\n\nA shared group consciousness must exist within a rhetorical community in order for a fantasy theme to chain out, a rhetorical vision to develop, a saga to exist, or a symbolic cue to imbue meaning. Some terms that portray a shared group consciousness are a common ground, mutual understanding, created social reality, meeting of minds and empathic communication. Once a group has reached shared group consciousness, they no longer think in terms of \"I\" or \"me\" but in terms of \"us\" and \"we.\" After all, communication is the drive that allows groups of people to move towards their goal. A shared group consciousness also reduces uncertainty by allowing groups to develop an identity that shapes their culture. By shaping their own culture, this can influence norms, roles and even decision making.\n\nA rhetorical vision reality link allows for a viable rhetorical vision that chronicles an authentic account of the phenomena along with tangible evidence. The lack of a rhetorical vision reality link, with no clear observational impressions of the facts, may lead to disprovable fantasies, characterized by rumor, innuendo, gossip, and even paranoia.\n\nFantasy theme artistry is the rhetorical ability to present situations in a form that appears attractive to people so that they will share them. By presenting situations in a form that appears attractive to an audience, or showing that you have an understanding of the stories that group shares, you can speak to their stories and turn their opinions into your favor.\n\nA dramatic event or series of events leads to uncertainty and a need to develop rhetoric to explain the current state of reality. In the case of the Cold War, the emergence of a fantasy-vision was necessary after Stalin's speech made clear his belief that capitalism and communism were incompatible and that war was inevitable. With the Truman Doctrine speech, emerging fantasies of Red Fascism (e.g., communism vs. democracy), Power Politics (e.g., containment strategy), and the Hot War vision (e.g., make the world safe for democracy), crystallized into the yet unknown concept of \"the Cold War.\"\n\nFantasies begin to chain out among a collectivity of people over a common interest. As they co-create a new vision, their lives take on new meaning and emotion and\ntheir behavior changes. The \"principle of critical mass\", when a rhetorical vision begins a period of rapid growth, is central to consciousness-raising. Also key to this stage is the \"principle of dedication\", which asserts that when planned events inspire individuals to act according to the key emotions present in the rhetorical vision their consciousness is raised.\n\nAt this stage, communication is focused on maintaining the commitment of people who have shared the rhetorical vision. The \"principle of shielding\" asserts that visions often remain fundamentally unchanged by containing motivation to quash counter messages. The \"principle of rededication\" asserts that visions may be sustained through severe criticism of counter-rhetoric and strategic positive dramatizations to maintain the visions vitality. The \"principle of reiteration\" asserts that rhetorical visions may be sustained by restating the key fantasy themes and types in new manners that fit within the dramatic structure of the vision, along with framing new information within the old rhetorical forms to maintain explanatory power.\n\nSituations in a rhetorical community can change so rapidly that the vision cannot adapt successfully. The \"principle of explanatory deficiency\" assert that when a rhetorical vision loses its explanatory power, it begins to decline. Another possible reason for decline is explained by the \"principle of exploding free speech\", where a significant period of censorship is followed by a deluge of counter-rhetoric. Along similar lines, the \"principle of resurfacing competitive rhetorical visions\" asserts that with opened channels of communication, competition from alternate rhetorical visions increases.\n\nThe end of a rhetorical vision. The \"principle of rapid implosion\" asserts that an inflexible rhetorical vision will not decline incrementally, but will implode on itself when the combination of problems, inability to explain rapid change, and contradictory motives become too much for the vision to deal with.\n\nSymbolic Convergence Theory has been used to study movements such as the Puritans, the Knights of Columbus, American communism, and the Women's movement. It has been used to study political visions such as the Cold War, the New South, and Vietnam war decision making, amongst others.\n\nThe Cold War rhetorical vision allowed theorists to mesh findings of previous SCT studies to discern, understand, and explicate more fully the intricate life-cycle of a rhetorical vision. Therefore, one set of studies, written by Bormann and others recommended that rhetorical visions can encompass the gamut of shared consciousness from all parts of the political, social, artistic, military, economic and cultural spectrum. Basically, through this study on the Cold War, they see how unrelated rhetorical visions may be combined in to a masterful rhetorical vision providing rhetorical continuity over time.\n\nSCT can also be applied in corporate strategic planning through guiding corporate positioning, market segmentation, and advertising and sales message testing. There are relevant cases consolidating the SCT theory-method-message complex combining with the strategic planning process and other implications.\n\nErnest G. Bormann, the theorist behind Symbolic Convergence Theory, a past professor of communication at University Minnesota, claimed that SCT is both objective and interpretive theory. The methods of determining fantasy themes, types, and visions create a humanistic approach that is interpretive. SCT is often praised and even considered a bit unusual because it meets both criteria for being both objective and interpretive. Ernest G. Bormann, John F. Cragan, & Donald C. Shields responded to initial criticisms in 1994. Bormann noted that one point that SCT lacks is to allow for predication and control of human communication in 1982.\n\nEm Griffen puts forward arguments that Symbolic Convergence Theory is an objective theory. Symbolic Convergence Theory is objective because it focuses on sharing group fantasies that create symbolic convergence which is framed as a universal principle that holds true for all people regardless of the time, culture, and communication context. Below are four of the tests that can be interpreted for SCT on an objective side.\n\n\nIn 2003 Joshua Gunn delivered a sophisticated criticism of of what he considered Bormann's outdated conception of SCT involving a humanist construct of conscious human actors working with agency. In contrast, Gunn proposed a post-modernist construct working in unconscious, and critiqued Bormann's work as a passing era prior to Michael McGee taking rhetorical study onto issues of ideology. Bormann, Cragan, & Shields responded the same year refuting or dismissing Gunn's criticisms. A supporting argument that SCT is a measure of conscious human agency can be seen in the intentional use of rhetoric to create a crafted convergence of a group's perceptions by a religious advocacy group in order to address a specific problem. \n\nThese stories, or fantasies, can help businesses, corporations or politicians guide the positive and negative feedback directly back to those in power. Because SCT is a general theory built on the method of natural sciences, it can be applied to many different cultures and timelines. It has been used to account for the communicative processes, created by a group, used to foster the creation and sustenance of the group's so-called \"consciousness.\" Below are a few points of how and why SCT can be useful in everyday situations.\n\nDetermining communication malfunctions.\nA question that happens a lot within SCT is, \"Why do some fantasy themes spark a chain of sharing while other fail?\" Groups fate as a part of a group have common experiences that predispose them to share fantasies which relate to their concerns. Therefore, these groups will have successful fantasy chains because they have more in common and are able to share more. When issues of power, sexism, role conflict, social rejection and other touchy topics come into play, groups members often find the direct confrontation of such issues to be unsettling. These fantasy chains may begin, but often do not last very long.\n\nAssessing communication efforts and persuasive campaigns.\nThis theory can provide insight within small groups, meetings, lectures and speeches, but it provides a greater use of assessing effects within the media. It is most heavily used within political campaigns. In the 1976 campaign, the investigators included the relationship between the media messages and the audience effects in their study. These studies analyzed the extent to which actual voting behavior can be anticipated by participation. By being able to predict the voting behaviors, political representatives could carefully craft their messages for different groups of people before giving their speeches and lectures to best benefit themselves.\n\nThe role of consciousness.\nWithin fantasy chains there are three phases that keep the chains going. They are consciousness creating, consciousness raising and consciousness sustaining. In the first phase, people to come to create a commonality among their group. If the groups shares this common fantasy, consciousness raising will often fall in line next. And lastly, the two first points combined will create a sustaining fantasy chain that will last.\n\nAn important element of Symbolic Convergence Theory is the propensity of the phenomenon it illustrates to be used against the public good. Whether unintentionally or intentionally, SCT can be seen at work in revisionist history. The intentional malevolent use of SCT principles against the public good can be seen in the rash of \"Fake News\" campaigns in which false perceptions are feed to society in order to create a false, but widely believed, consensus (convergence) of belief. This is tantamount to intentionally creating false representation on the walls of Plato's cave.(See Plato's Allegory of the Cave above) Conversely, unintended convergence of negative social ideas are illustrated by Jonathan Haidt describing the formation of American social and political tribalism. \n\nDramatism (Burke)\n\nDramatism is an attempt to understand the world through the construct of drama. The Dramatism construct allows the analyst to give purpose to life by giving individuals agency as actors within the drama, ties events and locations into the perception of the world as a stage, and as all stories have a plot Dramatism gives existence and humanity purpose. Dramatism provides groups of individuals conceptual tools on which to build a social convergent perception of reality. \n\nSocial Judgement Theory (Sherif, Sherif and Hovland)\n\nA self-persuasion theory defined by the perception and evaluation of an idea by comparing it with current attitudes. Persuasion occurs at the end of the process when a person understands a position and then compares the position it advocates to the other person’s position on the issue. The closer the other person’s position comes to a person’s latitude of acceptance, that position will seem closer than it actually is\n\nSocial Exchange Theory (Thibaut and Kelley)\n\nThe major force in interpersonal relationships is the satisfaction of both people's self-interest. Self-interest is not necessarily bad and can actually enhance relationships. Interpersonal exchanges are analogous to economic exchanges where people are satisfied when they receive a fair return on their expenditures.\n\nSocial Construction of Communication Technology (Fulk)\n\nCommunication technology use is influenced by workgroup attitudes and behaviors. Social influence is greater when individuals are more attractive to their work group.\n\nFantasy Theme Analysis (Bormann)\n\nThis theory is a form of rhetorical criticism. It takes the shared fantasies of a group of people, perhaps the audience for a business presentation or a public speech, and examines them for inside jokes and other cues to a shared consciousness.\n\n"}
{"id": "38660492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38660492", "title": "Syntagma Musicum", "text": "Syntagma Musicum\n\nSyntagma Musicum is a book by the German musicologist Michael Praetorius, published in Wittenberg and Wolfenbüttel in three parts between 1614 and 1620. It is one of the most commonly used research sources for the music theory of the seventeenth century. The second work \"De Organographia\" illustrates and describes musical instruments and their use; becoming a valuable resource for the research and reconstruction of early instruments.\n\nThe three volumes (a fourth was in progress but never published) were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2033477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033477", "title": "Taiwanese literature", "text": "Taiwanese literature\n\nTaiwanese literature refers to the literature written by Taiwanese in any language ever used in Taiwan, including Japanese, Taiwanese Han (Hokkien, Hakka and Mandarin) and Austronesian languages.\n\nTaiwan has a very active literary scene, with a large number of writers of novels and (especially) short stories enjoying a wide readership, many of them for many decades running. A short selection of prominent writers and poets includes:\n\n\nSee the full list of Taiwanese writers.\n\nSimilarly, there is a large poetry community in Taiwan, and there have been several anthologies of Taiwanese poetry in English translation.\n\nTwo areas of cross-pollination between literature and other arts in Taiwan include modern dance (particularly the modern dance troupe Cloud Gate Dance Theater, founded and directed by author Lin Huai-min) and filmmaking (including productions of stories by Huang Chunming directed by the leading Taiwanese filmmaker Hou Hsiao-hsien).\n\nThe 1990s saw the rise of a nativist Taiwan literature movement.\n\nWith the establishment of the Communist regime in mainland China in 1949, books from mainland China were not often published in Taiwan and books from Taiwan were not often published in mainland China. In 1986, the first novel, \"Three Kings\", written by a mainland Chinese writer, Ah Cheng, was openly published as such in Taiwan.\n\nSome books from mainland China still found their way into Taiwan before 1986 by different ways. As pirate editions, under both a different title and a pseudonym for the author, under a different title, but with the author's name unchanged, under a pseudonym but with the title unchanged, or altered by changes in the text itself.\n\nOften books which have a movie based on them sell well in Taiwan. The \"Harry Potter\" series are popular and so is \"Bridget Jones's Diary\". Some non-western popular books are \"The Hooligan Professor\", 流氓教授, by Lin Jian-long 林建隆, and \"Big Hospital Small Doctor\" 大醫院小醫師, by Hou Wun-yong 侯文詠. Both were adapted for television. Other popular non-literary works included books on mastering English and attaining success.\n\nThe awards for Taiwanese literature include Taiwan Literature Award (presented by National Museum of Taiwan Literature), Wu San-Lien Literary Award (Wu San-Lien Award Foundation), Aboriginal Literature Award, and Min-Hakka Literary Award (both by the Ministry of Education of Taiwan).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301618", "title": "The Way (Greg Bear)", "text": "The Way (Greg Bear)\n\nThe Way is the name of a fictional universe in a trilogy of science fiction novels and one short story by Greg Bear. The first novel was \"Eon\" (1985), followed by a sequel, \"Eternity\" and a prequel, \"Legacy\". It also includes \"The Way of All Ghosts\", a short story that falls between \"Legacy\" and \"Eon\".\n\nWithin the universe of \"The Way\", the Thistledown is an asteroid starship built by hollowing out Juno and fitting it with mass-driver (Rail gun) engines and thermonuclear drives. It is built 500 years in the future, as told in Bear's novel, \"Eon\", and is engaged on a multi-generational journey to Epsilon Eridani, around which a habitable planet is known to be circling.\n\nThe journey is meant to take 60 years, as the ship can only maintain a velocity of 20% the speed of light. Such velocities were rendered meaningless after the technology of the Thistledown was improved to include inertial dampeners, allowing higher accelerations.\n\nInhabiting the Thistledown are the best and brightest of Earth, who are quite diverse both culturally and politically. The Thistledown's society includes one transcendent genius - Konrad Korzenowski, whose preference for living in the Thistledown as compared with an outer universe, causes him to experiment with closed-geodesic space time in the Seventh Chamber, 20 years into the Thistledown's voyage. The results of his experiments are shattering in the extreme - he creates a unique pocket universe: The Way.\n\nThe eponymous Way is an extension of the 7th Chamber, and was formed in the novels using the machinery of the 6th chamber. This machinery can best be described as a selective inertial damper, developed by engineers within the Thistledown with twofold purpose - to permit the Thistledown to accelerate to the limit of its engines (up to 99% the speed of light) and to selectively dampen inertia within the vessel, e.g. water within waterways, high velocity train systems. The inertial dampening machinery within the sixth chamber is anchored to the structure of the Thistledown, equally spaced around the chamber at the vertices of a regular heptagon. While selective and automatic, the ability of the machinery to selectively access inertial references within their field envelope is both remarkable as well as puzzling, since with this technology it would be possible to successfully begin construction of trans-luminal vessels, including the Thistledown itself. That the inhabitants did not is explained in the novels by the development of an extension of the selective inertial reference frame into a new 'pocket' universe: the Way.\n\nIn the book series, the origins of The Way are the result of the superspace geometry researches of the fictional Dr. Patricia Luisa Vasquez in the late 20th and early 21st Century, pre- and post-\"Death\" (\"The Death\" being the name given to a nuclear war that occurred in the early 21st century within the timeline of the novels). Vasquez's first exploration into the superspace mathematics of fractional geometry and continua was her Doctoral Dissertation, \"Non-gravity Bent Geodesics of \"n\"-Spatial Reference Frames: An Approach to Superspace Visualisation and Probability Clustering\" in 1989. This work was the fundamental basis of the Way, as it identifies the requirements for accessing superspaces, and the consequences of doing so within the context of a physical object linked to a stable quantum configuration: The Thistledown, connected to the Way.\n\nLater work by Vasquez, specifically the fictional paper \"Theory of n-Spatial Geodesics as Applied to Newtonian Physics with a Special Discourse on ρ-Simplon World Lines.\" (\"Post-Death Journal of Accepted Physics\", IOP Publishing, 2023) identifies the science behind the field technology used to build the selective inertial dampeners of the 6th chamber; The title also indicates the method whereby the folded Geodesics of 'anchored' space time within the Thistledown can be extended to access alternate world-lines, through the propagation of ρ-Simplon transforms of the in-folded geodesics accessed by selective field technology.\n\nThus, all of Vasquez' work leads directly to the application of physical technology to directly access superspace geometry.\n\nAt the creation, and rejoining of the Way to the Thistledown, the character Konrad Korzenowski and his Engineers designed and 'built' the way out of the in-folded Geodesics of the inertial dampening field of the Sixth Chamber machinery. This is described in the books by first considering the inertial dampening field: Within the Thistledown, the field envelops the asteroid, effectively isolating it from the Einsteinian Metrical Frame, permitting relative inertia to be ignored. The Thistledown was, at the time of activation, isolated from its continuum, but only selectively. Its matter and energy anchored it to its continuum and relative time, but its geometry and quantum entanglement had been strained by the inertial dampener, thus making it susceptible to superspace distortions, and therefore it could be affected by them negatively.\n\nKorzenowski, having been taught by Vazquez on Earth, and in developing her work within the Thistledown, planned a radical extension of the inertial field of the sixth chamber - effectively extending the field away to an infinite extent within the seventh chamber. In order to do this effectively, he and his engineers modified a set of semi-sentient field calibration tools to build the first Clavicles. Unlike the field calibration tools from which they were descended, the Clavicles possessed the ability not only to manipulate the field, but extend it as an extension of the will of the operator. Already radical enough, Korzenowski and his team went further. By extending the field of the Sixth Chamber from within the Seventh Chamber of the Thistledown, they could then directly access what Vasquez had calculated within her own work - alternate world lines as non-gravity bent geodesics of superspace.\n\nKorzenowski thus 'felt' superspace within the Seventh Chamber, selecting the infinite selection of possible alternate pocket universes accessible by the Clavicle to form, as a sheer act of will, the Way from his designs and his vision. The resulting structure was constructed, not of matter, but of previously in-folded superspace vectors now infinitely extended. (in the manner of Schwarzschild folded geometry, or of an asymptotic curve.) The Way was thus opened.\n\nThe Way's geometry also gave rise to the Flaw - as superspace geometry of the field boundary was extended infinitely, so the folded geodesics of the field unfold in the geometric centre of the Way to form a singularity. This singularity, the Flaw, rests within the Way's plasma tube (which in turn is sustained by the Flaw). The Flaw 'produces' gravity by actively repulsing matter away from itself in an acceleration at the square of the distance away from itself. In addition, any object encircling the Flaw, and then exerting pressure against it, experiences this pressure as a translation force along the Flaw's length perpendicular to the direction of force. The motion thus induced is controllable by the angle at which an annular ring enclosure is pressed against the Flaw. The same spatial transform also can be used to turn tip turbines in order to generate electricity. The Flaw permits a violation of the First Law of Thermodynamics, therefore defining the Way as a perpetual motion machine of the First Order, making energy out of nothing.\n\nThe Way, as formed, was described by Bear as being in vacuum and did not consist of matter within its infinite length. Due to extremely slight ambiguity involved in its creation, the synchronicity between time within the Way, and within the Thistledown, was not exact. Thus, the Engineers spend two decades working to correct these faults using the Clavicles to manipulate the junction between Way and Thistledown. During this period, ambition led Korzenowksi to use the clavicle to open the first exploratory gate within the way, leading to the universe of the Jarts. Though the gate to Jart world was closed, the advanced Jarts nevertheless successfully managed to re-open, expand, occupy, and even master the workings of the Way. Korzenowski on returning had not taken into account the time dilation effects within the Way, and the Jarts had centuries within the way to access alternate universes, such as the one to the world of the Talsit. They established a trading empire, and were very hostile to the Way's human creators who re-entered their territories having stabilised the connection to the Thistledown.\n\nThe progressive Geshels and conservative Naderites (two fictional groups in the novels) who made their travels into the Way quickly met the Jarts. Conflict ensued in order to drive the Jarts out of the Way - this partly succeeded within the first century of Human expansion into the Way. Both sides fought each other through the use of remote slaved munitions carrier vehicles, of broadly similar design (a consequence of their shared environment). Human vehicles were 'manned' by partial personalities held within memory systems. Jart machines had similar arrangements, though in at least one documented case, one of the war machines was manned by a corporeal Jart duty expediter, subsequently captured.\n\nUltimately, the Jarts were driven back beyond 2 ex 9 ( 2x10^9 km, or 2 billion kilometres), a position they remained at until Journey Year 1174.\n\nAt the conclusion of the Jart Wars at about Journey Year 850, the Geshels and Naderites moved into the Way. The conflict had however resulted in casualties on both sides, and one of the most significant was that of the Engineer, Korzenowski, assassinated by Orthodox Naderites in the Thistledown. His personality was not completely lost, but no complete backups of the Engineer existed until the events of Journey Year 1175.\n\nThe opening of gates and use of field technology permitted the Geshels to cover the Way with soil and living plants, as well as fill it with air, for nearly a lightyear down from the Thistledown. This magnificent area remained as wilderness for much of the life of the Way. Soil, air and water were brought from worlds accessed from within the Way. Quickly, the gate openers discovered that the epoch and origin of the Thistledown within Earth's solar system defined where the gates opened to - almost without exception (and these exceptions included as a consequence of the infinities addressed through superspace geometries as defined by Patricia Vasquez) were alternative versions of Earth within other Universes. Thus commerce was possible with these universes. Covering the surface of the way and filling the way with air was rendered simple by opening gates in proximity to a planet not occupied by intelligence or excessive quantities of animals, and then sucking the air and soil from these worlds to cover the Way's bare surface.\n\nGates are capped with cupolas formed from Space-time itself. As distortions in space-time geometry, their nature can be calculated by 21st century instruments laid on their 'surfaces'. The constant Pi, in particular, is most strongly affected.\n\nWith the opening (and re-opening of previously Jart controlled) gates, the human migrants gained access to remarkable technologies and abilities, and made possible habitation within the Way, and on the Flaw itself, in the newly created Axis Thoreau and Axis Euclid at 1.5 ex 7 (15 million km). They developed trading client-patron relations with the Frants of Timbl, and client-client relations with the Talsit. With development of memory technologies, City Memory was created, and humans not only became immortal, but also gained the ability to be reborn. Government changed, with the formation of the Hexamon and the governing Nexus.\n\nOrthodox Naderites remained within the Thistledown for a century after the end of Jart Wars, but concerns over the safety of the Thistledown and the danger of interference with the Sixth Chamber machinery caused the Geshels to have the Naderites forcibly removed from Thistledown to prevent disaster. Violence erupted during the forced migration, and for acclimation of Naderites, forced occupation of Thistledown City (the Geshel enclave) for most Naderites took place for one year.\n\nBy Journey Year 950, the Thistledown was empty, and history proceeded gently until the cataclysmic events of Journey Year 1175.\n\nThe mathematical construction of the way as written creates a rhythm, or order in which gate loci are located, a consequence of the propagation of World Lines along folded Geodesics. For every kilometer of the Way, time moves back by a year. For every meter of the Way there is a minimum intersection with the world-lines of 100 universes. However, there are significant segments of the Way wherein there are a near-infinity of Universes containing alternate Earths.\n\nThe reason for the Geometry Stacks, as they are called, is described by the author as being a direct consequence of the origin of the Way within the Thistledown, and its development through extension of the inertial dampening field of the Sixth Chamber. Essentially, the Way is anchored to the space-time of the Thistledown—Juno, within the Solar System of Earth. If it were possible to construct a universe like the Way without quantum entanglement, the Geometry Stacks would most likely not exist, or if in existence, would not be tied to a quantum entanglement with a particular continuum. Since the Way and Thistledown are entangled, the existence of the Geometry Stacks is to be expected within mathematical theory first developed by Patricia Vasquez in 1989 with regard to folded spatial transforms expressed as a function of the superspace curvature of the Way.\n\nThere is a sharp consequence to the entanglement of the Way - Alternate Universes accessed by Gates, and to worlds such as that of the Frants (Timbl), Talsit and Jarts, \"must\" by definition share a certain amount of entanglement, even in a most fractional percentage. It is therefore fair to say that these worlds are in fact alternates universes and versions of Earth, though divergence and near-complete lack of similarity in fact make them very different indeed.\n\nThe most noteworthy aspect of the Geometry Stacks is their infinite profusion of alternate Earths, in far greater quantity in comparison with the commerce gates with partners, clients—and enemies. In the case of the world of the Talsit, more than one Gate at more than one location is possible, as the probability of the Talsit world is very well defined indeed. Therefore, it can be demonstrated with mathematical precision that Human beings impose a remarkable set of quantum stresses upon their home continuum, resulting in a near-infinity of timelines for their world—all equally real. Thus, the many-worlds quantum model is proved to be both real and accessible within the novels, a fantastic achievement.\n\nGate openers, by Journey Year 1174, prefer not to work within the Geometry Stacks, as these universes are considered not worth the effort of determination, given the extreme difficulty of tuning a gate in the very tight confines of Stacks, where Universes are often separated by sub-quantum distances.\n\nThe Way, inevitably, will intersect with itself, and with the cores of Stars. Remarkable events are derived from this fact. In addition, the Way encompasses all events within itself within its length.\n\n\"Eon\" chronicles the appearance and discovery of the \"Thistledown\", and its subsequent effect on humanity.\n\nIn the early 21st century, the United States and Russia are on the verge of nuclear war. In that tense political climate, an asteroid appears out of near space after an unusual supernova and settles into an extremely elliptical near Earth orbit. The two nations each try to claim this mysterious object, which appears to be a virtual duplicate of Juno. It is hollow and contains seven vast terraformed chambers. Two of the chambers contain cities long abandoned by human beings who seemed to come from Earth's future. The asteroid is called the \"Thistledown\" by its builders. A startling discovery is that it is bigger inside than outside. The seventh chamber appears to stretch into infinity.\n\nThe human inhabitants of the Thistledown come from an alternate timeline, approximately 1000 years in the future. In their timeline, human civilization was nearly destroyed by the \"Death\", a calamitous World War involving nuclear weapons. The Death occurred at approximately the same time as the appearance of the Thistledown in the present time. Its presence threatens to cause the Death to occur on the current timeline as well.\n\nAn expedition is sent down the seemingly infinite seventh chamber (The \"Way\", as it is known) where it encounters the descendants of humanity. The high technology of this civilization, known as the \"Hexamon\", with its control over genetic engineering, human augmentation, and matter itself are some of the main points of interest here. The Hexamon includes several alien species who have come to live with humanity's descendants. The Hexamon itself is at war with an alien race known as the \"Jarts\" from further down the corridor still.\n\nIn 2007, CGSociety organised a \"CG Challenge\" based upon \"Eon\"\n\nJarts, politics, and technology make up the second book in the series: \"Eternity\".\n\nThe Jart religion is particularly interesting because it is based on the preservation of all data, which encompasses all life forms, past and present, and sending that data to the Jarts' future masters, their descendants.\n\nIn the third book (a prequel, set in the time before \"Eon\"), \"Legacy\", soldier Olmy ap Sennon is sent to spy on a group of dissidents who have used the spacetime tunnel of \"the Way\" (introduced in \"Eon\") to colonize the alien world of Lamarckia, a planet with an ecosystem that learns from its changed environment in a way that resembles Lamarckian evolution. Its plants and animals turn out to actually be parts of continent-sized organisms.\n\nIn the short story, \"The Way of All Ghosts\", soldier Olmy ap Sennon is sent to close a lesion that formed out of a wayward gate into perfection. This story was published in 1999 in \"Far Horizons\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21130778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21130778", "title": "Tomica Hero Series", "text": "Tomica Hero Series\n\nThe was a short-lived series of Japanese tokusatsu children's television dramas. Based on Takara Tomy's Tomica toy car line, the series air on TV Aichi and TV Tokyo before being syndicated around Japan. Takara Tomy previously produced \"Madan Senki Ryukendo\", but \"Ryukendo\" was not based on a pre-existing set of toys for the company. However, it made reference to the Earth Federation which the UFDA is a branch of, its main cast making a cameo in the \"Rescue Force\" movie. Although airing on different days, the Tomica Hero Series served as competition to TV Asahi and Toei Company's Super Sentai and Kamen Rider Series and Tsuburaya Productions' Ultra Series. Only two series were made with the Tomica Hero story, which concluded with a stage show featuring members of the \"Rescue Force\" cast.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18617938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18617938", "title": "Youth Citizenship Commission", "text": "Youth Citizenship Commission\n\nThe Youth Citizenship Commission (YCC) was a commission created in the United Kingdom to promote youth participation in the political process and to foster youth education in citizenship, in response to the July 2007 publication of the 'Governance of Britain' Green Paper, which pointed out such needs. The thirteen independent Commissioners, headed by chair Professor Jonathan Tonge, oversaw the commission. Among the commissioners were three youth participants.\n\nThe YCC focused its attention on individuals between the ages of 11 and 19. In addition to its work with the general youth population, it also focused on developing healthy concepts of citizenship among disadvantaged populations. It advocated volunteerism as a means of youth engagement and explored questions of how the government can be more responsive to youth needs. It considered lowering the voting age to 16. The YCC made its final report in spring 2009 to the Prime Minister, the Secretary of State for Justice and the Secretary of State for Children, Schools and Families. This included sixteen recommendations.\n\n\n"}
