{"id": "51305533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51305533", "title": "2016 PQ", "text": "2016 PQ\n\n2016 PQ is an approximately 20-meter sized asteroid and near-Earth object of the Apollo group, with one of the smallest known minimum orbital intersection distances with Earth.\n\nThe asteroid was discovered by the Pan-STARRS telescope on 2 August 2016, when it had reached magnitude 20.5, and it had brightened by magnitude 19.0 three nights later, after which it became too close to the Sun to spot with ground-based telescopes. It reached its closest approach to the Earth on 7 August 2016, at 0.025 AU, or 9.8 lunar distances.\n\n orbits the Sun at a distance of 0.9–2.9 AU once every 2 years and 8 months (961 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.54 and an inclination of 3° with respect to the ecliptic.\n\nThe asteroid's orbit is near that of a 3:8 resonance with Earth, meaning that for every 8 orbits the Earth makes, makes roughly 3, contributing to the fact that it makes no significant close approaches in the next few decades.\n\n has a very small minimum orbit intersection distance (MOID) to the Earth – only around , corresponding to 0.038 lunar distances or 2.3 Earth radii. It has the 19th lowest MOID of any known asteroid, as well as the 7th lowest MOID of any object larger than it (after , , (85236) 1993 KH, , 2014 DA, and 2004 FH).\n\nDespite its very low MOID, it is not on the Sentry Risk Table, as it is not going to make any nearby close approaches to Earth in the near future. It is too small to be classified as a potentially hazardous asteroid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1813618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813618", "title": "Aisyt", "text": "Aisyt\n\nAisyt (Aysyt, Ajsyt or Ajyhyt; \"Ayııhıt\") is a fertility deity of the Turkic Yakut people from the Lena River region of Siberia. The name means \"birthgiver\" and may also be called the \"Mother of Cradles\". Her full name is given as Ajysyt-ijaksit-khotan, meaning \"Birthgiving nourishing mother\". Aisyt brings the soul from heaven at the birth of a baby and records each one in the Golden Book of Fate and daughter of Yer Tanrı.\n\nAjysyt was responsible for conducting the soul of a newborn child to its birth and attended every birth. Women would channel Ajysyt, believing that doing so would relieve them of pain during childbirth. She kept a golden book in which she recorded each one. She is said to have lived on a mountain top in a house with seven stories, from which she controlled the fate of the world.\n\nThe Yakut revere a variety of ajy (). The primary manifestation, Nelbey Ajyhyt, is responsible for the birth of children; Dzhyësyëgyëy Toyon and Kieng Kieli-Baly Toyon govern the reproduction of horses; Isegey Ajyhyt has responsibility for oxen; and Noruluya manages dogs and foxes. \n\nWhen referring to the fertility deity for the births of male animals, such as stallions or bulls, the word \"ajysyt\" is understood to be male. However, when relating to the birth of a mare or cow, the word is feminine.\n\nOne legend recalls how she appeared from the roots of the Cosmic Tree (alternatively the world pillar of Yryn-al-tojon)to a pale young man; the tree stood beside a lake of milk. By suckling the youth she caused his strength to increase a hundredfold.\n\nAisyt was a daughter of Gok-Tengri (Sky-God) and Toprak Ana (Mother Earth) and was viewed with both fear and affection. She represented the night and was pictured as a noble woman. The night's darkness heralded the emergence of malicious spirits from holes.\n\nAjysyt is a featured figure on Judy Chicago's installation piece \"The Dinner Party\", being represented as one of the 999 names on the \"Heritage Floor.\"\n"}
{"id": "3876442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3876442", "title": "Akari (satellite)", "text": "Akari (satellite)\n\nAkari (ASTRO-F) is an infrared astronomy satellite developed by Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, in cooperation with institutes of Europe and Korea. It was launched on 21 February 2006, at 21:28 UTC (06:28, 22 February JST) by M-V rocket into Earth sun-synchronous orbit. After its launch it was named \"Akari\" (明かり), which means \"light\" in Japanese. Earlier on, the project was known as IRIS (InfraRed Imaging Surveyor).\n\nIts primary mission was to survey the entire sky in near-, mid- and far-infrared, through its aperture telescope.\n\nIts designed lifespan, of far- and mid-infrared sensors, is 550 days, limited by its liquid helium coolant.\n\nIts telescope mirror is made of silicon carbide to save weight. The budget for the satellite was ¥13,4 billion (~).\n\nBy mid-August 2006, Akari finished around 50 percent of the all sky survey.\n\nBy early November 2006, first (phase-1) all-sky survey finished. Second (phase-2) all-sky survey started on 10 November 2006.\n\nDue to the malfunction of sun-sensor after the launch, ejection of telescope aperture lid was delayed, resulting the coolant lifespan estimate to be shortened to about 500 days from launch. However, after JAXA estimated the remaining helium during early March 2007, observation time will be extended at least until 9 September.\n\nOn 11 July 2007, JAXA informed that 90 percent of the sky was scanned twice. Also around 3,500 selected targets have been observed so far.\n\nOn 26 August 2007, liquid-Helium coolant depleted, which means the completion of far- and mid-infrared observation. More than 96 percent of the sky was scanned and more than 5,000 pointed observations were done.\n\nBritish and Japanese project team members were awarded a Daiwa Adrian Prize in 2004, by The Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation in recognition of their collaboration.\n\nDuring December 2007, JAXA performed orbit correction manoeuvres to bring Akari back into its ideal orbit. This was necessary because the boiled off helium led to an increase in altitude. If this would have continued energy supply would have been cut off.\n\nIn May 2011, Akari suffered a major electrical failure that rendered its science instruments inoperable when the satellite is in the Earth's shadow. The operation of satellite was terminated officially on 24 November 2011.\n\n\nThe Akari All-Sky Survey Point Source Catalogues was released on 30 March 2010.\n\nAstronomy and Astrophysics, Vol. 514 (May 2010) was a feature issue of Akari's result.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13084077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13084077", "title": "Amperex Electronic", "text": "Amperex Electronic\n\nAmperex Electronic Corporation was a manufacturer of vacuum tubes and semiconductors.\n\nOriginally located at 79 Washington Street in Brooklyn, New York, Amperex was a long-established manufacturer of transmitting tubes when they were acquired by the Dutch firm, Philips, (known more widely as Norelco in the US), around 1955. Philips continued to improve and enlarge the tube plant in New York, but also used the Amperex name to distribute their new line of Dutch-made miniature tubes, (12AX7, 12AU7, 12AT7) to feed the booming U.S. hi-fi market. Classic hi-fi brands such as Marantz, Fisher, and H. H. Scott, Inc., used these tubes. Amperex also produced the 6DJ8, 6922 and 7308 frame grid tubes. Developed by Amperex in 1958 when transistors were beginning to supplant tubes and originally developed for video and radar use, the 6DJ8 also excelled in audio amplifiers needing its high transconductance, and it still has a niche market among audiophiles.\n\nAmperex tubes were original equipment parts in many models of Tektronix and Hewlett-Packard test equipment. Although Amperex stopped making vacuum tubes long ago, hoards of new old stock (especially the original \"Bugle Boy\" series) are traded for profit, and other manufacturers produced compatible tubes more recently.\n\nA new factory was constructed at 230 Duffy Avenue, Hicksville, New York, to manufacture electron tubes and semiconductors. Miniature receiving tubes, magnetrons, X-ray tubes, Geiger-Muller tubes, and large transmitting tubes were also manufactured at this location. This location became the headquarters for North American Philips (NAP). The factory was completed in 1953 and closed in 1989. All assets were then sold to Richardson Electronics of rural Lafox, near Batavia, Illinois.\n\nThe Hicksville factory had a company-sponsored softball team that played at Eisenhower Park (then called Salisbury Park) in East Meadow, New York.\n\nNorth American Philips Corporation built a plant at 100 Providence Pike, North Smithfield, Rhode Island (Slatersville) on a plot in 1959. The 15-acre property is recorded by the Town of North Smithfield Tax Assessor as Lot No. 60 on Plat No. 4, and Lot No. 385 on Plat No. 5. There are five buildings located on the property. The property is bordered to the north by Industrial Drive; to the south by Comstock Road, to the east by a grassy area; and to the west by Providence Pike. The plant was operated by one of Philips' fully owned subsidiaries, Amperex Electronics, to supply IBM, one of Philips' largest customers, with high speed, gold-doped germanium logic diodes. Millions of these diodes were manufactured at the Slatersville plant every year. With the advent of silicon diodes in 1962 there was a decreasing demand for these germanium diodes, so Philips transferred their germanium Post Alloy Diffused Transistor (PADT) manufacturing to Slatersville to take advantage of the site's capacity.\n\nIn 1960 Philips invented an imaging tube called the Plumbicon to replace the vidicon and Image Orthicon tubes used in studio television cameras. The technical advantages of this new tube allowed true color fidelity to be seen in television broadcasts for the first time. In 1967 the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences presented Philips with an Emmy Award for \"Outstanding Achievement in Engineering Development\" for the invention of the Plumbicon tube.\n\nThe popularity of the Plumbicon tubes was so great that Amperex, built a second plant adjacent to the 1959 building on the Slatersville site to meet the demand. The new plant was , and at the time of construction employed the largest and cleanest clean room facilities in the world. The plant was officially opened in 1967 and is still making Plumbicon camera tubes today. Although the original use of Plumbicon camera tubes was in broadcast television, current demand is primarily in for use in medical imaging equipment.\n\nIn 1973, several years after its acquisition by Amperex, the manufacturing operations of Advanced Micro Electronics were transferred to Slatersville. The products transferred from Advanced Micro Electronics included small signal silicon planar transistors for military and industrial applications, Leadless Inverted Devices (LIDs) and hybrid circuits using both thin and thick film technology. Manufacturing of these three products and the sales office for Philips Semiconductors were housed in Slatersville until 1992 when this business unit was sold.\n\nIn 1998 Philips Components purchased, from English Electric Valve (EEV), the only other lead oxide camera tube business still in existence and so became the World's sole lead oxide camera tube manufacturer.\n\nAmperex had a manufacturing facility at 99 Bald Hill Road, Cranston, Rhode Island, that manufactured monolithic integrated circuits . \nIt was acquired by Micro Components Corporation, later renamed Cherry Semiconductor, moved to 1900 South County Trl, East Greenwich, RI. then sold to ON Semiconductor, a subsidiary of Motorola until 1999.\n\nFerroxcube, in Saugerties, New York, manufactured components for data processing equipment, namely, electromagnetic cores, memory planes, stacks of memory planes with controlled networks, shielding beads, threaded slugs, choke coils, filters, resistors, magnetic recording head assemblies, memory systems, Peltier batteries with or without control networks, capacitors, and magnetostrictive ferrites. Ferroxcube now belongs to Yageo Corporation.\n\nAmperex also operated a site in North Smithfield, RI . In the 1980s it was used for marketing, sales, QC and Engineering R&D of their discrete semi-conductor business. Before any components were shipped to US based customers QC staff would run some or all pieces through EATON testing equipment. Engineers at customer sites would work with Amperex engineers to determine the best use and components for the customer needs.\n\nFor a brief time Amperex distributed a dot matrix printer, model GP-300.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30042225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30042225", "title": "Atmospheric river", "text": "Atmospheric river\n\nAn atmospheric river (AR) is a narrow corridor or filament of concentrated moisture in the atmosphere. Atmospheric rivers consist of narrow bands of enhanced water vapor transport, typically along the boundaries between large areas of divergent surface air flow, including some frontal zones in association with extratropical cyclones that form over the oceans. Pineapple Express storms are the most commonly represented and recognized type of atmospheric rivers; they are given the name due to the warm water vapor plumes originating over the Hawaiian tropics that follow a path towards California.\n\nThe term was originally coined by researchers Reginald Newell and Yong Zhu of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in the early 1990s, to reflect the narrowness of the moisture plumes involved. Atmospheric rivers are typically several thousand kilometers long and only a few hundred kilometers wide, and a single one can carry a greater flux of water than the Earth's largest river, the Amazon River. There are typically 3–5 of these narrow plumes present within a hemisphere at any given time.\n\nIn the current research field of atmospheric rivers the length and width factors described above in conjunction with an integrated water vapor depth greater than 2.0 cm are used as standards to categorize atmospheric river events.\n\nAs data modeling techniques progress, integrated water vapor transport (IVT) is becoming a more common data type used to interpret atmospheric rivers. Its strength lies in its ability to show the transportation of water vapor over multiple time steps instead of a stagnant measurement of water vapor depth in a specific air column (IWV). In addition IVT is more directly attributed to orographic precipitation, a key factor in the production of intense rainfall and subsequent flooding. For instance the water vapor image to the left shows two rivers on 5 December 2015: the first, stretching from the Caribbean to the United Kingdom, caused by Storm Desmond, and the second originating from the Philippines is crossing Pacific Ocean to the west coast of North America.\n\nAtmospheric rivers have a central role in the global water cycle. On any given day, atmospheric rivers account for over 90% of the global meridional (north-south) water vapor transport, yet they cover less than 10% of the Earth's circumference. Atmospheric rivers are also known to contribute to about 22% of total global runoff.\n\nThey also are the major cause of extreme precipitation events that cause severe flooding in many mid-latitude, westerly coastal regions of the world, including the West Coast of North America, Western Europe, the west coast of North Africa, the Iberian Peninsula, Iran and New Zealand. Equally, the absence of atmospheric rivers has been linked with the occurrence of droughts in several parts of the world including South Africa, Spain and Portugal .\n\nThe inconsistency of California's rainfall is due to the variability in strength and quantity of these storms, which can produce strenuous effects on California's water budget. The factors described above make California a perfect case study to show the importance of proper water management and prediction of these storms. The significance atmospheric rivers have for the control of coastal water budgets juxtaposed against their creation of detrimental floods can be constructed and studied by looking at California and the surrounding coastal region of the western United States. In this region atmospheric rivers have contributed 30-50% of total annual rainfall according to a 2013 study. The Fourth National Climate Assessment (NCA) report, released by the U.S. Global Change Research Program (USGCRP) on November 23, 2018 confirmed that along the U.S. western coast, landfalling atmospheric rivers \"account for 30%–40% of precipitation and snowpack. These landfalling atmospheric rivers \"are associated with severe flooding events in California and other western states.\"\n\nThe USGCRP team of thirteen federal agencies—the DOA, DOC, DOD, DOE, HHS, DOI, DOS, DOT, EPA, NASA, NSF, Smithsonian Institution, and the USAID—with the assistance of \"1,000 people, including 300 leading scientists, roughly half from outside the government\" reported that, \"As the world warms, the \"landfalling atmospheric rivers on the West Coast are likely to increase\" in \"frequency and severity\" because of \"increasing evaporation and higher atmospheric water vapor levels in the atmosphere.\"\n\nBased on the North American Regional Reanalysis (NARR) analyses, a team led by National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's (NOAA) Paul J. Neiman, concluded in 2011 that landfalling ARs were \"responsible for nearly all the annual peak daily flow (APDF)s in western Washington\" from 1998 through 2009.\n\nThe front cover of the NCA4 report features a natural-color NASA image of conditions over the northeastern Pacific on February 20, 2017. The report said that this AR brought a \"stunning\" end to the American West's 5-year drought with \"some parts of California received nearly twice as much rain in a single deluge as normally falls in the preceding 5 months (October–February)\". NASA Earth Observatory's Jesse Allen created the front cover visualization with the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) data on the Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (NPP) satellite. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5145147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5145147", "title": "Atmospheric sounding", "text": "Atmospheric sounding\n\nAn atmospheric sounding is a measurement of vertical distribution of physical properties of the atmospheric column such as pressure, temperature, wind speed and wind direction (thus deriving wind shear), liquid water content, ozone concentration, pollution, and other properties. Such measurements are performed in a variety of ways including remote sensing and in situ observations.\n\nThe most common in situ sounding is a radiosonde, which usually is a weather balloon, but can also be a rocketsonde.\n\nRemote sensing soundings generally use passive infrared and microwave radiometers:\n\nSensors that measure atmospheric constituents directly, such as thermometers, barometers, and humidity sensors, can be sent aloft on balloons, rockets or dropsondes. They can also be carried on the outer hulls of ships and aircraft or even mounted on towers. In this case, all that is needed to capture the measurements are storage devices and/or transponders.\n\nThe more challenging case involves sensors, primarily satellite-mounted, such as radiometers, optical sensors, radar, lidar and ceilometer as well as sodar since these cannot measure the quantity of interest, such as temperature, pressure, humidity etc., directly. By understanding emission and absorption processes, we can figure out what the instrument is looking at between the layers of atmosphere.\nWhile this type of instrument can also be operated from ground stations or vehicles—optical methods can also be used inside in situ instruments—satellite instruments are particularly important because of their extensive, regular coverage. The AMSU instruments on three NOAA and two EUMETSAT satellites, for instance, can sample the entire globe at better than one degree resolution in less than a day.\n\nWe can distinguish between two broad classes of sensor: \"active\", such as radar, that have their own source, and \"passive\" that only detect what is already there. There can be a variety of sources for a passive instrument, including scattered radiation, light emitted directly from the sun, moon or stars—both more appropriate in the visual or ultra-violet range—as well light emitted from warm objects, which is more appropriate in the microwave and infrared.\n\nA limb sounder looks at the edge of the atmosphere where it is visible above the Earth. It does this in one of two ways: either it tracks the sun, moon, a star, or another transmitting satellite through the limb as the source gets occultated behind the Earth, or it looks towards empty space, collecting radiation that is scattered from one of these sources. In contrast, a nadir-looking atmospheric sounder looks down through the atmosphere at the surface. The SCIAMACHY instrument operates in all three of these modes.\n\nThe following applies mainly to passive sensors, but has some applicability to active sensors.\n\nTypically, there is a vector of values of the quantity to be retrieved, formula_1, called the state vector and a vector of measurements, formula_2. The state vector could be temperatures, ozone number densities, humidities etc. The measurement vector is typically counts, radiances or brightness temperatures from a radiometer or similar detector but could include any other quantity germain to the problem.\nThe forward model maps the state vector to the measurement vector:\n\nUsually the mapping, formula_4, is known from physical first principles, but this may not always be the case. Instead, it may only be known empirically, by matching actual measurements with actual states. Satellite and many other remote sensing instruments do not measure the relevant physical properties, that is the state, but rather the amount of radiation emitted in a particular direction, at a particular frequency. It is usually easy to go from the state space to the measurement space—for instance with Beer's law or radiative transfer—but not the other way around, therefore we need some method of inverting formula_4 or of finding the inverse model, formula_6.\n\nIf the problem is linear we can use some type of matrix inverse method—often the problem is ill-posed or unstable so we will need to regularize it: good, simple methods include the normal equation or singular value decomposition. If the problem is weakly nonlinear, an iterative method such Newton-Raphson may be appropriate.\n\nSometimes the physics is too complicated to model accurately or the forward model too slow to be used effectively in the inverse method. In this case, statistical or machine learning methods such as linear regression, neural networks, statistical classification, kernel estimation, etc. can be used to form an inverse model based on a collection of ordered pairs of samples mapping the state space to the measurement space, that is, formula_7. These can be generated either from models—e.g. state vectors from dynamical models and measurement vectors from radiative transfer or similar forward models—or from direct, empirical measurement. Other times when a statistical method might be more appropriate include highly nonlinear problems.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6486237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6486237", "title": "Bear worship", "text": "Bear worship\n\nBear worship (also known as the bear cult or arctolatry) is the religious practice of the worshiping of bears found in many North Eurasian ethnic religions such as the Sami, Nivkh, Ainu, pre-Christian Basques, and Finns. There are also a number of deities from Celtic Gaul and Britain associated with the bear, and the Dacians, Thracians, and Getians were noted to worship bears and annually celebrate the bear dance festival. The bear is featured on many totems throughout northern cultures that carve them.\n\nThe existence of an ancient bear cult among Neandertals in Western Eurasia in the Middle Paleolithic has been a topic of discussion spurred by archaeological findings. The Neanderthals would have worshiped the cave bear (\"Ursus spelaeus\") and ancient bear bones have been discovered in several different caves and are believed by some archaeologists to be evidence of a bear cult during the Paleolithic. It was not the mere presence of these bones that intrigued archaeologists, but their peculiar arrangement. Upon excavation, archaeologists on site determined that the bones were found arranged in such a way that it was not naturally possible. Emil Bächler, a main supporter of the argument for the presence of an ancient bear cult, found bear remains in Switzerland and at Mornova Cave in Slovenia. Along with Bächler’s discovery, bear skulls were found by André Leroi-Gourhan arranged in a perfect circle in Saône-et-Loire. The discovery of designs such as those found by André Leroi-Gourhan suggests that these bear remains were placed in their arrangement intentionally; an act which has been attributed to Neandertals and is assumed to have been a part of some sort of ceremony.\n\nWhile some of these findings have been interpreted to indicate the presence of an ancient bear cult, certain analyses and discussions have led to contradicting results. According to Ina Wunn, based on the information archaeologists have about primitive man and bear cults, if Neandertals did, in fact, worship bears, there should be evidence of it in their settlements and camps. Most bear remains have been found in caves, however, and not within early human settlements. This information has implied the non-existence of an ancient bear cult and has instigated the development of new theories. Many archaeologists, including Ina Wunn, have come to believe that since most bear species reside and hide their young in caves during the winter months for hibernation, it is possible that their remains were found in the caves because caves were their natural habitat. Bears lived inside these caves and perished for various reasons, whether it was illness or starvation. Wunn argues that the placement of these remains, whether it appears to be an identified pattern or not, is due to natural causes such as wind, sediment, or water. Therefore, in Wunn’s opinion, the assortment of bear remains in caves did not result from human activities and there is no evidence for a bear cult during the Middle Paleolithic era. Certain archaeologists, such as Emil Bächler, continue to use their excavations to support that an ancient bear cult did exist.\n\nBear were the most worshipped animals of Ancient Slavs. During pagan times, it was associated with the god Volos, the patron of domestic animals. Slavic folklore describes the bear as a totem personifying a male: father, husband, or a fiance. Legends about turnskin bears appeared, it was believed that humans could be turned into bears for misbehavior.\n\nThe bear festival is a religious festival celebrated by the indigenous Nivkh in Russia's far east. A Nivkh Shaman (ch'am) would preside over the Bear Festival, celebrated in the winter between January and February depending on the clan. Bears were captured and raised in a corral for several years by local women, treating the bear like a child. The bear is considered a sacred earthly manifestation of Nivkh ancestors and the gods in bear form. During the Festival the bear is dressed in a specially made ceremonial costume and offered a banquet to take back to the realm of gods to show benevolence upon the clans. After the banquet the bear is killed and eaten in an elaborate religious ceremony. The festival was arranged by relatives to honor the death of a kinsman. The bear's spirit returns to the gods of the mountain 'happy' and rewards the Nivkh with bountiful forests. Generally, the Bear Festival was an inter-clan ceremony where a clan of wife-takers restored ties with a clan of wife-givers upon the broken link of the kinsman's death. The Bear Festival was suppressed in the Soviet period; since then the festival has had a modest revival, albeit as a cultural rather than a religious ceremony.\n\nThe Ainu people, who live on select islands in the Japanese archipelago, call the bear “kamuy” in their language, which translates to mean \"god\". While many other animals are considered to be gods in the Ainu culture, the bear is the head of the gods. For the Ainu, when the gods visit the world of man, they don fur and claws and take on the physical appearance of an animal. Usually, however, when the term “kamuy” is used, it essentially means a bear. The Ainu people willingly and thankfully ate the bear as they believed that the disguise (the flesh and fur) of any god was a gift to the home that the god chose to visit.\n\nWhile on earth – the world of man – the Ainu believed that the gods appeared in the form of animals. The gods had the capability of taking human form, but they only took this form in their home, the country of the gods, which is outside the world of man. To return a god back to his country, the people would sacrifice and eat the animal sending the god’s spirit away with civility. This ritual is called Omante and usually involves a deer or adult bear.\n\nOmante occurred when the people sacrificed an adult bear, but when they caught a bear cub they performed a different ritual which is called Iomante, in the Ainu language, or Kumamatsuri in Japanese. Kumamatsuri translates to “ bear festival” and Iomante means “sending off”. The event of Kumamatsuri began with the capture of a young bear cub. As if he was a child given by the gods, the cub was fed human food from a carved wooden platter and was treated better than Ainu children for they thought of him as a god. If the cub was too young and lacked the teeth to properly chew food, a nursing mother will let him suckle from her own breast. When the cub reaches 2–3 years of age, the cub is taken to the altar and then sacrificed. Usually, Kumamatsuri occurs in midwinter when the bear meat is the best from the added fat. The villagers will shoot it with both normal and ceremonial arrows, make offerings, dance, and pour wine on top of the cub corpse. The words of sending off for the bear god are then recited. This festivity lasts for three days and three nights to properly return the bear god to his home.\n\nAccording to legend, Ungnyeo (literally \"bear woman\") was a bear who turned into a woman, and gave birth to Dangun, the founder of the first Korean kingdom, Gojoseon. Along with the tiger, the bear plays an important role in Korean shamanism.\n\nBetween 1925-1927, Dyrenkova made field observations of bear worship among the Altai, Tubalar (Tuba-Kiji), Telengit, and Shortsi of the Kuznetskaja Taiga as well as among the Sagai tribes in the regions of Minussinsk, near the Kuznetskaja Taiga (1927).\n\nThere are annual bear festivals that take place in various towns and communes in the Pyrenees region. \n\nIn Prats-de-Mollo, the (\"festival of the bear\") held on Candlemas (February 2) is a ritual in which men dressed up as bears brandishing sticks terrorize people in the streets. Formerly, the festival centered on the \"bears\" mock-attacking the women and trying to blacken their breasts (with soot), which seemed scandalous to outside first-time observers. But according to the testimony of someone who remembered the olden days before that, the festival that at Prats-de-Mollo involved elaborate staging, much like the version in Arles.\n\nThe Arles-sur-Tech version () involves a female character named Rosetta (Roseta) who gets abducted by the \"bear\". Rosetta was traditionally played by a man or a boy dressed up as a girl. The \"bear\" would bring the Rosetta to a hut raised on the center square of town (where the victim would be fed sausages, cake, and white wine). The event finished with the \"bear\" being shaved and \"killed\".\n\nA well-known bear festival also occurs at Haute-Vallespir ().\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3151377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3151377", "title": "Birds Hill Provincial Park", "text": "Birds Hill Provincial Park\n\nBirds Hill Provincial Park is a provincial park in Manitoba, Canada located in the Boreal Plains ecozone. The park protects areas representative of Aspen/Oak parkland, as well as provides opportunities for recreation. It is located 24 kilometres north of Winnipeg on Highway 59, and covers approximately 8300 acres (35.1 square kilometres). \n\nBirds Hill Provincial Park was designated a provincial park by the Government of Manitoba in 1964. The park is considered to be a Class III protected area under the IUCN protected area management categories.\n\nBirds Hill Provincial Park is a popular destination, receiving more than a million visitors annually. In summer, festivals and sporting events are held, the main campground is heavily booked, and families enjoy the beach and picnic areas. In winter, trails are groomed for cross-country skiing, skijoring and kick-sledding and the riding stable offers horse-drawn sleigh rides.\n\nMore than half of the park is set aside as backcountry, offering visitors trails for hiking, cross-country skiing, horseback riding and mountain biking. Almost 40% of the park is classified for recreational development use, including the campgrounds, the beach and picnic sites, the scenic roadways, the riding stable and other equestrian facilities, the festival site and the pioneer homesteads.\n\nThree scenic roadways were added when the park was developed, North Drive, South Drive and Festival Drive. The paved shoulders of these roads are frequently used for walking, running, roller sports, and cycling. \n\nThe park is surrounded on three sides by the Rural Municipality of Springfield, and on the north by the Rural Municipality of St. Clements.\nThe park rises in a series of six low rounded hills. Those in the south and west stand 20 meters above the surrounding land while those in the north and east are more than 40 meters higher. A lookout tower has been built on Griffiths Hill at about the halfway point of the Chickadee hiking trail.\n\nThe park's landscape today is still defined by the events of 11,000 to 12,000 years ago as a Pleistocene glacier retreated and melted into glacial Lake Agassiz. Initially the glacier melt water deposited sand and gravel in a complex of eskers. As the glacier continued to retreat, Lake Agassiz submerged the eskers adding silt and clay around them. At the edge of the huge lake, spits and beaches formed and eroded as the lake slowly dropped. Five major strandlines of this glacial lake can be found within the park boundaries.\n\nThe rock layers beneath Birds Hill Park are consistent with those in the surrounding region. Deepest of all are those of the Precambrian Superior Craton, the volcano-plutonic rocks of the Bird River subprovince. The older rocks are overlaid by Paleozoic layers--the dolomitic limestone and dolostone of the Red River Formation on top of the shale and sandstone of the Winnipeg Formation. These two sedimentary layers contain aquifers important to neighbouring communities, including Winnipeg. The glacial and post glacial deposits lying directly on the sedimentary layers within the park allow precipitation to recharge the aquifer beneath. \n\nTrembling aspen and bur oak forest is the dominant plant community found in the park. Prairie species are found in drier upland sites. Wetlands in the park include marshes, black spruce/tamarack bogs and a cedar bog. Other trees found within the park include Manitoba maple, jack pine, paper birch, white spruce, and balsam poplar .\n\nBirds Hill Park is home to over 40 mammal species including White-tailed deer.\n\nOver two hundred species of birds have been found within the park boundaries. These include Northern goshawk, Northern shrike, Boreal chickadee, Red-breasted nuthatch, American woodcock, Northern saw-whet owl, Sprague's pipit, Indigo bunting, Eastern towhee, and Lark sparrow.\n\nWestern Silvery Aster, a species protected under federal and provincial Endangered Species laws has been found growing in the park.\n\nSince the area is higher than the surrounding terrain, what is now Birds Hill Park served early settlers as a refuge from flooding in the years 1826 and 1852.\n\nBetween 1895 and 1899, the settlers of Pine Ridge built a Lutheran church on land then owned by John Uhrich, now within the park. The church closed in 1920 and its building was removed to another site, and later demolished. The church graveyard, Pine Ridge Cemetery, is located near Nimowin Road. Many early settlers of the area are buried there.\n\nThe park was formed from land expropriated from more than 150 local landowners in 1964. The official opening date was marked by a ribbon cutting ceremony by Manitoba premier Duff Roblin on July 15, 1967.\n\nThe park is named in honor of Dr. Curtis Bird, first speaker of the Manitoba provincial legislature in 1873, whose father had been a factor in the Hudson's Bay Company and received a large land grant at this location. \n\nEquestrian and cycling events for the 1967 Pan American Games hosted by Winnipeg were held in the park.\nEvery July since 1974, the park has been the site of the Winnipeg Folk Festival. \n\nSeptember 16 1984, Pope John Paul II celebrated mass at the park during his visit to Manitoba.\n\nOn August 29, 1992, Bryan Adams performed at the \"Waking Up the Nation Festival\" held at the park with the Deadbeat Honeymooners, Extreme, Sass Jordan and Steve Miller.\n\nThe park hosted the 1998 Canadian Triathlon Championships.\n\nThe park was the location of the road cycling, triathlon, and equestrian competitions during the 1999 Pan American Games.\n\nIn 2017, the park was the venue for the triathlon, road cycling and open water swimming events for the Canada Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13783010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13783010", "title": "Bravo Lake Formation", "text": "Bravo Lake Formation\n\nThe Bravo Lake Formation is a mafic volcanic belt and large igneous province located at the northern margin of the Trans-Hudson orogeny on central Baffin Island, Nunavut, Canada. It is exposed along a nearly continuous east-west passage for and changes in stratigraphic thickness from 1 to 2.5 kilometers. The formation is a rare alkaline-suite that formed as a result of submarine rifting during the Paleoproterozoic period. The Bravo Lake Formation is surprisingly undeformed by the Himalayan-scale forming event during the Trans-Hudsonian orogeny.\n\nThe stratigraphy of the Bravo Lake Formation starts with a basic section of iron-oxide rich sandstones, psammites, and semi-pelites which cover a series of deformed pillow lavas which expand in viscosity towards the west, and volcanic/clastic deposits and ultramafic sills. The lower volcanic section is covered by garnet and diopside bearing calc–silicate layers and finely layered metasediments composed of coarse-grained actinolite, hornblende and biotite followed by pelites and semi-pelites that are intruded by separate sills. In the Ridge Lake area, the volcanic belt includes an interlayered series of amphibolite, gabbro, iron formation, sulfidic schist and metasediments.\n\nGeochemical results of pillow lavas and chill boundaries along five transects across the volcanic belt suggest the existence of three chemically different magma types within the Bravo Lake Formation.\n\nLavas of the volcanic belt display geochemical characteristics similar to modern ocean-island–basalt groups. They range from moderately to intensely fractionated. REE-profiles are similar to those from tholeiitic basalts to extremely alkaline lavas in Hawaii.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5703093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703093", "title": "Canaan Valley Resort State Park", "text": "Canaan Valley Resort State Park\n\nCanaan Valley Resort State Park is a state park in the eastern United States, within Canaan Valley in Tucker County, West Virginia. Located in the highest valley east of the Mississippi River, the park contains the second-largest inland wetland area in the United States. The valley featured the first commercial ski development in West Virginia.\n\nIn 1950 and 1951, members of the Washington Ski Club identified the Canaan Valley side of Cabin Mountain as an opportune place for ski development, based on pilots' reports. Because of its protection from the sun, snow on that side of the mountain often remains until April or later.\n\nThe club began slope development in the early 1950s, signing a ten year operational lease with local landowners in 1954. Their slope, named Cabin Mountain Ski Area, featured two rope tows on of terrain stretching from route 32 to a height of . Runs extended down a slope with a vertical drop of . It was the first commercial ski establishment south of the Mason–Dixon line. The ski area closed in 1962.\n\nIn 1955, University of Virginia School of Law student Robert Barton established Weiss Knob Ski Area, climbing the slope of Weiss Knob above the Cabin Mountain site to a height of . It featured of terrain serviced by a T-bar as well as three rope tows. This site was acquired by the state of West Virginia in 1959, so Barton reopened \"Weiss Knob Ski Area\" at a new site on Cabin Mountain's Bald Knob. Opening in fall 1959, the new site featured four rope tows and the first snowmaking equipment in West Virginia; in its first season, of snow fell, burying the equipment and closing the facility for the year. The resort remained open until 1970, when the impending opening of Canaan Valley Resort prompted Barton to go out of business. This new ski area was actually a redevelopment of the original Weiss Knob site; the second Weiss Knob site would be re-opened as the second home of White Grass Ski Touring Center in 1981.\n\nIn 1957, the state of West Virginia made its first land acquisition with an eye toward further developing a ski industry in West Virginia. Sarah Maude Thompson Kaemmerling granted to the state in the 1950s for the formation of a state park with the stipulation that the state make a matching acquisition. The state would go on to claim more than 30 properties between 1964 and 1970. It was not until 1971, however, that the Canaan Valley Resort State Park was established centering on the ski slopes at the southern end of the Valley. In 1972, an 18-hole golf course was also constructed there. The lodge at Canaan Valley Resort State Park Lodge opened in 1977.\n\nThe park has been very successful and several private ski operations have opened nearby and in other parts of the state as well.\n\nCanaan Valley Resort opened for skiing in 1971, on the original site of Weiss Knob Ski Area. It offers 49 ski trails, one terrain park, and a snow tubing area. A chairlift and magic carpet access the resort's beginner skiing area, on the far right of the mountain (facing up the slope). Other than this terrain and one long green trail running from the summit to the resort base, practically all the mountain terrain is marked more difficult or most difficult. These blue and black slopes generally descend the mountain at the same pitch, regardless of their difficulty marking. A triple chair and quad chair access the resort summit; the latter also has a mid-mountain station, which is the point beginners are encouraged to offload as the upper part of the mountain is steeper.\n\nCanaan Valley Resort State Park features a 160 room lodge, plus 23 cabins & cottages, and 34 campsites. The park also provides hiking trails, bike trails, ski area, and 18 hole championship-level golf course. In 2016, a paragliding launch site was opened on Cabin Mountain, and is accessible from the ski lift.\n\nOn Sunday, February 14, 1988, a mid-day explosion and fire in a maintenance building killed three men who were attending an air compressor for the snowmaking system. The building also contained several drums of chemicals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4767343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4767343", "title": "Cape Floristic Region", "text": "Cape Floristic Region\n\nThe Cape Floristic Region is a floristic region located near the southern tip of South Africa. It is the only floristic region of the Cape (South African) Floristic Kingdom, and includes only one floristic province, known as the Cape Floristic Province.\n\nThe Cape Floristic Region, the smallest of the six recognised floral kingdoms of the world, is an area of extraordinarily high diversity and endemism, and is home to over 9,000 vascular plant species, of which 69 percent are endemic. Much of this diversity is associated with the fynbos biome, a Mediterranean-type, fire-prone shrubland. The economical worth of fynbos biodiversity, based on harvests of fynbos products (e.g. wildflowers) and eco-tourism, is estimated to be in the region of R77 million a year. Thus, it is clear that the Cape Floristic Region has both economic and intrinsic biological value as a biodiversity hotspot.\n\nHome to the greatest non-tropical concentration of higher plant species in the world, the region is the only hotspot that encompasses an entire floral kingdom, and holds five of South Africa’s 12 endemic plant families and 160 endemic genera. Covering 78,555 km², Cape Floristic Region hotspot is located entirely within the borders of South Africa. It is one of the five temperate Mediterranean-type systems on the hotspots list, and is one of only two hotspots that encompass an entire floral kingdom (the other being New Caledonia). The Region covers the Mediterranean climate region of South Africa in the Western Cape in the southwestern corner of the country, and extends eastward into the Eastern Cape, a transitional zone between the winter rainfall region to the west and the summer-rainfall region to the east in KwaZulu-Natal.\n\nMost of the region is covered with fynbos, a sclerophyllous shrubland occurring on acid sands or nutrient-poor soils derived from Table Mountain sandstones (Cape Supergroup). Fynbos is home to a diverse plethora of plant species including many members of the protea family (Proteaceae), heath family (Ericaceae), and reed family of restios (Restionaceae). Other vegetation types are sandveld, a soft coastal scrubland found mostly on the west-facing coast of the Western Cape Province, on tertiary sands. Renosterveld is a grassy shrubland dominated by members of the daisy family (Asteraceae, particularly renosterbos (\"Elytropappus rhinocerotis\"), graminoids and geophytes, occurring on the base-rich shaley soils of the coastal forelands. Small pockets of Afromontane forest (Southern Afrotemperate Forest) can be found in humid and sheltered areas.\n\nAccording to Takhtajan (1978), the following families are endemic or subendemic to the region: Grubbiaceae, Roridulaceae, Bruniaceae, Penaeaceae, Greyiaceae, Geissolomataceae, Retziaceae (\"Retzia\") and Stilbaceae.\n\nThe World Wide Fund for Nature divides the Cape floristic region into three ecoregions, the Lowland fynbos and renosterveld, Montane fynbos and renosterveld and the Albany thickets.\n\nThe fynbos ecoregions are designated one of the Global 200 priority ecoregions for conservation. Conservation International declared the Cape floristic region to be a biodiversity hotspot.\n\nIt is thought that the Cape Floristic Region is experiencing one of the most rapid rates of extinction in the world due to habitat loss, land degradation, and invasive alien plants.\n\nIn 2004, the \"Cape Floral Region Protected Areas\" were inscribed as a World Heritage Site. The site includes eight representative protected areas:\n\nThis article incorporates CC BY-3.0 text from the reference\n\n"}
{"id": "27649061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27649061", "title": "Carmacks Group", "text": "Carmacks Group\n\nThe Carmacks Group is a Late Cretaceous volcanic group in southwest-central Yukon, Canada, located between the communities of Dawson City and Whitehorse. It consists of flood basalts, coarse volcaniclastic rocks and sandy tuffs interbedded with subordinate andesite and basaltic lava flows. It has been interpreted to be a displaced portion of the Yellowstone hotspot track that was formed 70 million years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "19690443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19690443", "title": "Celtic animism", "text": "Celtic animism\n\nAccording to classical sources, the ancient Celts were animists. They honoured the forces of nature, saw the world as inhabited by many spirits, and saw the Divine manifesting in aspects of the natural world.\n\nThe Celts of the ancient world believed that many spirits and divine beings inhabited the world around them, and that humans could establish a rapport with these beings. The archaeological and the literary record indicate that ritual practice in Celtic societies lacked a clear distinction between the sacred and profane; rituals, offerings, and correct behaviour maintained a balance between gods, spirits and humans and harnessed supernatural forces for the benefit of the community.\n\nThe pagan Celts perceived the presence of the supernatural as integral to, and interwoven with, the material world. Every mountain, river, spring, marsh, tree and rocky outcrop was inspirited. While the polytheistic cultures of ancient Greece and Rome revolved around urban life, ancient Celtic society was predominantly rural. The close link with the natural world is reflected in what we know of the religious systems of Celtic Europe during the late 1st millennium BCE and early 1st millennium CE. As in many polytheistic systems, the local spirits honoured were those of both the wild and cultivated landscapes and their inhabitants. As Anne Ross observed, \"god-types, as opposed to individual universal Gaulish deities, are to be looked for as an important feature of the religion of the Gauls ... and the evidence of epigraphy strongly supports this conclusion.\" As what some may consider spirits are considered by other authors to be deities, the list of Celtic deities derived from local inscriptions can at times be rather long.\n\nThe ancient Celts venerated the spirits who inhabited local mountains, forests and springs. Certain animals were seen as messengers of the spirits or gods. In Tribal territories, the ground and waters which received the dead were imbued with sanctity and revered by their living relatives. Sanctuaries were sacred spaces separated from the ordinary world, often in natural locations such as springs, sacred groves or lakes. Many topographical features were honored as the abodes of powerful spirits or deities, with geographical features named for tutelary deities. Offerings of jewelry, weapons or foodstuffs were placed in offering pits and bodies of water dedicated to these beings. These offerings linked the donor to the place and spirits in a concrete way.\n\nThe spirits of watery places were honoured as givers of life and as links between the physical realm and the other world. Sequana, for example, seems to have embodied the River Seine at its spring source, and Sulis appears to have been one and the same as the hot spring at Bath, Somerset, (Roman Aquae Sulis) not simply its guardian or possessor. In Ireland, the tutelary goddesses Boann and Sionnan give their names to the rivers Boyne and Shannon, and the tales of these goddesses are the origin stories of the rivers themselves. The threefold goddess Brighid is associated with a number of holy wells and The Morrígan is connected with the River Unius.\n\nThere is abundant evidence for the veneration of water by the Celts and indeed by their Bronze Age forebears. In the Pre-Roman Iron Age, lakes, rivers, springs and bogs received special offerings of metalwork, wooden objects, animals and, occasionally, of human beings. By the Roman period, the names of some water-deities were recorded on inscriptions or were included in contemporary texts. The ancient name for the River Marne was Matrona 'Great Mother;' the Seine was Sequana; the Severn, Sabrina; the Wharfe, Verbeia; the Saône, Souconna, and there are countless others. Natural springs were foci for healing cults: Sulis was prayed to as a healer at Aquae Sulis and the goddess Arnemetia was hailed as a healer at Aquae Arnemetiae. Nemausus, for example, was not only the Gallic name for the town of Nîmes but also that of its presiding spring-god. He had a set of three female counterparts, the Nemausicae. In the same region, the town of Glanum possessed a god called Glanis: an altar from a sacred spring is inscribed 'to Glanis and the Glanicae'.\n\nMeteorological patterns and phenomena, especially wind, rain and thunder, were acknowledged as inspirited and propitiated. Inscribed dedications and iconography in the Roman period show that these spirits were personifications of natural forces. Taranis's name indicates not that he was the god of thunder but that he actually was thunder. Archaeological evidence suggests that the thunder was perceived as especially potent. Inscriptions to Taranis the 'Thunderer' have been found in Britain, Gaul, Germany and the former Yugoslavia and the Roman poet Lucan mentions him as a savage god who demanded human sacrifice. In the insular Celtic lands, Lugh is seen as a god of the storms, as are the Cailleachan - Scottish storm hags - and the Cailleach herself, who brings the first winter snows to the land by washing her great plaid (Gaelic: \"féileadh mòr\") in the Whirlpool of Coire Bhreacain. This process is said to take three days, during which the roar of the coming tempest is heard as far away as inland. When she is finished, her plaid is pure white and snow covers the land.\n\nFrom the early Bronze Age, people in much of temperate Europe used the spoked wheel to represent Taranis. The Romans imported their own celestial god, Jupiter, to continental Celtic lands by \"interpretatio romana\", and his imagery was merged with that of a native deity to produce a hybrid sky-deity who resembled the Roman god but who had additional solar attributes. Altars decorated with wheels were set up by Roman soldiers stationed at Hadrian's Wall, and also by supplicants in Cologne and Nîmes.\n\nThe Celts believed that trees had spirits and revered certain trees. The most sacred trees of Ireland were the bíle trees - old, sacred trees that stood in a central area and were often the social and ceremonial meeting place for a tribe or village. According to the Dindsenchas (lore of Irish places), the five sacred Bíles of Ireland were the Ash of Tortu, the Bole of Ross (a yew tree); the Oak of Mugna, and the Ash of Dathi. These trees were associated with the five Irish provinces then in existence.\n\nAmong both the Continental and Insular Celts, the behaviour of certain animals and birds were observed for omens, and certain spirits were closely associated with particular animals. The names of Artio the ursine goddess and Epona the equine goddess are based on Celtic words for 'bear' and 'horse', respectively. In Ireland, the Morrígan is associated with crows, wolves and horses, among other creatures, and in Scotland Brighid's animals include snakes and cattle. Certain creatures were observed to have particular physical and mental qualities and characteristics, and distinctive patterns of behaviour. An animal like a stag or horse could be admired for its beauty, speed or virility. Dogs were seen to be keen-scented, good at hunting, guarding and healing themselves. Snakes were seen to be emblematic of long (possibly eternal) life, being able to shed their skin and renew themselves. Deer (who shed antlers) suggest cycles of growth; in Ireland they are sacred to the goddess Flidais, while in Scotland they are guarded by the Cailleach. Beavers were seen to be skillful workers in wood. Thus admiration and acknowledgment for a beast's essential nature led easily to reverence of those qualities and abilities which humans did not possess at all or possessed only partially.\n\nHunting deities, whose role acknowledges the economic importance of animals and the ritual of the hunt, highlight a different relationship to nature. The animal elements in half-human, antlered deities suggest that the forest and its denizens possessed a numinous quality as well as an economic value.\n\nHunter-gods were venerated among the Continental Celts, and they often seem to have had an ambivalent role as protector both of the hunter and the prey, not unlike the functions of Diana and Artemis in classical mythology. From Gaul, the armed deer-hunter depicted on an image from the temple of Le Donon in the Vosges lays his hands in benediction on the antlers of his stag companion. The hunter-god from Le Touget in Gers carries a hare tenderly in his arms. Arduinna, the eponymous boar-goddess of the Ardennes, rides her ferocious quarry, knife in hand, whilst the boar-god of Euffigneix in the Haute-Marne is portrayed with the motif of a boar with bristles erect, striding along his torso, which implies conflation between the human animal perception of divinity. Arawn of Welsh mythology may represent the remnants of a similar hunter-god of the forests of Dyfed. Additionally, in Welsh mythology the hunting of a sacred stag often leads the hunters into the Otherworld.\n\nAs with many traditional societies, the hunt was probably hedged about with prohibitions and rituals. The Greek author Arrian, writing in the 2nd century CE, said that the Celts never went hunting without the gods' blessing and that they made payment of domestic animals to the supernatural powers in reparation for their theft of wild creatures from the landscape. Hunting itself may have been perceived as a symbolic, as well as practical, activity in which the spilling of blood led not only to the death of the beast but also to the earth's nourishment and replenishment.\n"}
{"id": "23206350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23206350", "title": "Chaplygin gas", "text": "Chaplygin gas\n\nChaplygin gas, which occurs in certain theories of cosmology, is a hypothetical substance that satisfies an exotic equation of state in the form\nformula_1,\nwhere formula_2 is the pressure, formula_3 is the density, with formula_4 and formula_5 a positive constant. The substance is named after Sergey Chaplygin.\n\nIn some models, generalized Chaplygin gas is considered, where formula_6 is a parameter, which can take on values formula_7.\n\n"}
{"id": "12822286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12822286", "title": "Conflict resource", "text": "Conflict resource\n\nConflict resources are natural resources extracted in a conflict zone and sold to perpetuate the fighting. There is both statistical and anecdotal evidence that belligerent accessibility to precious commodities can prolong conflicts (a \"resource curse\"). The most prominent contemporary example has been the eastern provinces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), where various armies, rebel groups, and outside actors have profited from mining while contributing to violence and exploitation during wars in the region.\n\nThe four most commonly mined conflict minerals (known as 3TGs, from their initials) are cassiterite (for tin), wolframite (for tungsten), coltan (for tantalum), and gold ore, which are extracted from the eastern Congo, and passed through a variety of intermediaries before being purchased. These minerals are essential in the manufacture of a variety of devices, including consumer electronics such as mobile phones, laptops, and MP3 players.\n\nThe extraction and sale of blood diamonds, also known as \"conflict diamonds\", is a better-known phenomenon which occurs under virtually identical conditions. Even petroleum can be a conflict resource; ISIS used oil revenue to finance its military and terrorist activities.\n\nInternational efforts to reduce trade in conflict resources, tried to reduce incentives to extract and fight over them. For example, in the United States, the 2010 Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act required manufacturers to audit their supply chains and report use of conflict minerals. In 2015 a US federal appeals court struck down some aspects of the reporting requirements as a violation of corporations’ freedom of speech, but left others in place.\n\nThe concept of 'conflict resource', or 'conflict commodity' emerged in the late 1990s, initially in relation to the 'conflict diamonds' that were financing rebellions in Angola and Sierra Leone. (The media often called these 'blood diamonds'.) Then 'conflict timber' financed hostilities in Cambodia and Liberia.\n\nThe concept was first officially discussed by the UN General Assembly in the context of 'conflict diamonds': The UN Security Council has since referred to conflict resources in several resolutions.\n\nGlobal Witness has called for an international standardized definition to facilitate a more systematic application of UN resolutions, the prevention of complicity in abuses during hostilities by commercial entities exploiting or trading in conflict resources, and the prosecution of war profiteers suspected of supporting or abetting war criminals.\"\nSince 1996 the Bonn International Center for Conversion has tracked \"resource governance\" and \"conflict intensity\" by country. Aside from fossil fuels, metals, diamonds, and timber it tracks the governance of other primary goods that might fund conflicts, including: poppy seeds and talc (Afghanistan), rubber (Côte d'Ivoire), cotton (Zambia), and cocoa (Indonesia).\n\nThe four most prominent conflict minerals, for example codified in the U.S. Conflict Minerals Law, are:\n\n\nThese are sometimes referred to as \"\"the 3T's and gold\", \"3TG\", or even simply the \"3T's\"\". Under the US Conflict Minerals Law, additional minerals may be added to this list in the future.\n\nAs of 2010, the conflict resource fueling the world's deadliest war is gold in the Congo. Gold bars are less traceable than diamonds, and gold is abundant in the Kivu conflict region. In any case, no jewellery industry standard exists for verifying gold origination, as it does for diamonds (though jeweler's total outlay on gold is five times that on diamonds). Other conflict minerals being illicitly exported from the Congo include cobalt, tungsten, cassiterite, and coltan (which provides the tantalum for mobile phones, and is also said to be directly sustaining the conflict).\n\nArmed conflict and mineral resource looting by the Congolese National Army and various armed rebel groups, including the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR) and the National Congress for the Defense of the People (CNDP), a proxy Rwandan militia group, has occurred throughout the late 20th century and the early 21st century. Additionally, the looting of the Congo's natural resources is not limited to domestic actors. During the Congo Wars (First Congo War (1996–1997) and Second Congo War (1998–2003)), Rwanda, Uganda and Burundi particularly profited from the Congo's resources. These governments continued to smuggle resources out of the Congo to this day.\n\nThe profits from the sale of these minerals have financed fighting in the Second Congo War and ongoing follow-on conflicts. Control of lucrative mines has also itself become a military objective.\n\nMines, in eastern Congo, are often located far from populated areas in remote and dangerous regions. A recent study by International Peace Information Service (IPIS) indicates that armed groups are present at more than 50% of mining sites. At many sites, armed groups illegally tax, extort, and coerce civilians to work. Miners, including children, work up to 48-hour shifts amidst mudslides and tunnel collapses that kill many. The groups are often affiliated with rebel groups, or with the Congolese National Army, but both use rape and violence to control the local population.\n\nIn April 2009, Senator Sam Brownback (R-KS) introduced the Congo Conflict Minerals Act of 2009 (S. 891) to require electronics companies to verify and disclose their sources of cassiterite, wolframite, and tantalum. This legislation died in committee. However, Brownback added similar language as Section 1502 of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which passed Congress and was signed into law by President Barack Obama on July 21, 2010.\n\nThe U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) draft regulations to implement the Conflict Mineral Law, published in the Federal Register of December 23, 2010. would have required U.S. and certain foreign companies to report and make public their use of so-called \"conflict minerals\" from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries in their products. Comments on this proposal were extended until March 2, 2011. The comments on the proposal were reviewable by the public.\n\nOne report on the proposal stated the following statistics for the submitted comments:\nThat report also contained what it calls a \"preview of the final SEC regulations\" synthesized from their detailed research and analysis of a large body of documents, reports and other information on the law, proposed regulation and the current budget/political setting facing the SEC in the current administration.\n\nThe final rule went into effect 13 November 2012.\n\nThe SEC rule did not go unnoticed by the international community, including entities seeking to undermine traceability efforts. A report published by a metals trading publication illustrated one DRC ore/mineral flow method that has apparently been devised to thwart detection.\n\nOn July 15, 2011, the US State Department issued a statement on the subject. Section 1502(c) of the Law mandates that the State Department work in conjunction with SEC on certain elements of conflict minerals policy development and support.\n\nOn October 23, 2012 U.S. State Dept Officials asserted that ultimately, it falls on the U.S. State Dept. to determine when this rule would no longer apply.\n\nIn April 2014, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck down several parts of the SEC Rules as unconstitutional.\n\nUS Conflict Minerals Law contains two requirements that are closely connected: \n\nEven companies not directly regulated by the SEC will be impacted by the audit requirements because they will be pushed down through entire supply chains, including privately held and foreign-owned companies.\n\nSEC estimated that 1,199 \"issuers\" (i.e., companies subject to filing other SEC reports) will be required to submit full conflict mineral reports. This estimate was developed by finding the amount of tantalum produced by the DRC in comparison to global production (15% – 20%). The Commission selected the higher figure of 20% and multiplied that by 6,000 (the total number of \"issuers\" SEC will be required to do initial product/process evaluations). This estimate does not account for the companies who supply materials to the \"issuers\" (but are not themselves SEC-regulated) but who will almost certainly be required to conduct conflict minerals audits to meet the demands of those customers. Other estimates indicate that the total number of US companies likely impacted may exceed 12,000.\n\nA study of the potential impact of the regulation in early 2011 by the \"IPC – Association Connecting Electronic Industries\" trade association. was submitted with the association's comments to the SEC. The study states that the IPC survey respondents had a median of 163 direct suppliers. Applying that number to the SEC's estimated number of impacted issuers results in the possibility of over 195,000 businesses that could be subject to some level of supply chain traceability effort.\n\nUnder the law, companies have to submit an annual conflict minerals report to the SEC if: \n\nA company would be deemed to contract an item to be manufactured if it:\n\nThis language implied that some retailers who are not manufacturers might be subject to the audit and disclosure requirements.\n\n\"Contracting to manufacture\" a product requires some actual influence over the manufacturing of process that product, a determination based on facts and circumstances. A company is not to be deemed to have influence over the manufacturing process if it merely:\n\nThe proposed regulations attempted to clarify that tools used in assembly and manufacturing will not trigger the law. The intent was to cover minerals/metals in the final product only. Nothing specifically addresses intermediate chemical processes that use chemicals that contain conflict minerals. Additionally, neither the law nor the proposed regulation established a de minimis quantity or other form of materiality threshold that would preclude the applicability of the auditing/reporting requirements.\n\nThe law mandates the use of an \"independent private sector auditor\" to conduct the audits. SEC has proposed two different standards for the audits: the \"reasonable inquiry\" and the \"due diligence\". Should the final rule include this structure, the reasonable inquiry would be the first step to determine if the company can on its own, using reasonable efforts and trustworthy information, make a reliable determination as to the source/origin of its tin, tantalum, tungsten and/or gold. Where companies are unable to make such a determination for any reason, they would then be required to take the next step of the \"due diligence\", which is the independent private sector audit.\n\nThe statute specified that the audits be \"conducted in accordance with standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States, in accordance with rules promulgated by the Commission.\" This means that the same auditing standards that apply to other SEC auditing requirements will apply to conflict minerals audits Because of this language, SEC will have little discretion to allow companies to issue self-generated statements or certifications to satisfy the law.\n\nThird party audits for conflict minerals supply chain traceability began in summer 2010 under the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), a US-based electronics manufacturing trade association. Under this program, EICC selected three audit firms to conduct the actual audits, with two of the three participating in the pilot audits in 2010. After concluding the pilot, one of the two firms involved in 2010 withdrew from the program specifically in response to the SEC's proposal and to reduce potential legal risks to the audited entities.\n\nNeither the law nor the proposed regulations provide guidance on what will be considered an acceptable audit scope or process, preferring to allow companies the flexibility meeting the requirement in a manner that is responsive to their own individual business and supply chain. At the same time, the law contains a provision that preserves the government's rights to deem any report, audit or other due diligence processes as being unreliable, and in such cases, the report shall not satisfy the requirements of the regulations, further emphasizing the need for such audits to conform to established SEC auditing standards. Comments on the proposed regulation pointed out that, should SEC not specify an applicable audit standard, it cannot also be silent or ambiguous on the auditor standards as well, or the Commission will violate the plain language of the Law mandating \"standards established by the Comptroller General of the United States\". It is generally expected that SEC will provide specificity on both the audit standard and the auditor standard. SEC's proposal attempted to clarify its position on auditor requirements.\n\nThe Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) published its Guidance on conflict minerals supply chain traceability. This guidance is gaining much momentum as \"the\" standard within US policy. However, a recent critical analysis of the standard in comparison to existing US auditing standards under SEC highlighted a number of significant inconsistencies and conflict with relevant US standards. Companies subject to the US law who implement the OECD Guidance without regard for the SEC auditing standards may face legal compliance risks.\n\nCompanies subject to the SEC reporting requirement would be required to disclose whether the minerals used in their products originated in the DRC or adjoining countries (as defined above). The law mandates that this reporting be submitted/made available annually. Many comments to the proposed regulation asked SEC to clarify whether the report must be \"furnished\"—meaning it is made available to SEC but not directly incorporated within the company's formal financial report—or \"submitted\"—meaning the report is directly incorporated into the financial report. At first glance, this may appear to be a minor point; however, this difference is very important in determining the audit/auditor standards and related liabilities.\n\nIf it is determined that none of the minerals originated in the DRC or adjoining countries, the report must include a statement to that effect and provide an explanation of the country of origin analysis that was used to arrive at the ultimate conclusion. On the other hand, if conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining countries were used (or if it is not possible to determine the country of origin of the conflict minerals used), companies would be required to state as such in the annual report. In either case, companies would also be required to make this information public by posting their annual conflict minerals report on their websites, and providing the SEC with the internet addresses where the reports may be found. Further, the proposed regulations would require companies to maintain records relating to the country of origin of conflict minerals used in their products.\n\nMedia outlets have reported that many companies required to file Specialized Disclosure Reports to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and any necessary conflict minerals reports for 2013 under the SEC’s conflict minerals rule are struggling to meet the June 2, 2014 report filing deadline. Many impacted companies were hoping for clarification regarding filing requirements, from the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit from a lawsuit filed by the National Association of Manufacturers. The appellate court’s ruling left the necessary conflict minerals reporting requirements largely intact and it has been suggested that impacted companies should review the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance’s response to the court’s ruling which provides guidance regarding the effect of the appellate court’s ruling.\n\nOn August 18, 2015 the divided D.C. Circuit Court again held the SEC's conflict materials rule violates the First Amendment. Senior Circuit Judge A. Raymond Randolph, joined by Senior Circuit Judge David B. Sentelle, weighed if the required disclosures were effective and uncontroversial. Citing news reports and a Congressional hearing, the court decided the policy was ineffective. The court next found the required label was controversial because it \"is a metaphor that conveys moral responsibility for the Congo war.\" As such, the court struck down the conflict materials rule’s disclosure requirements as a violation of corporations’ freedom of speech. Circuit Judge Sri Srinivasan dissented, writing that the required disclosures were not controversial because they were truthful.\n\nThe law has been criticised for not addressing the root causes of the conflict, leaving to the Congolese government the responsibility for providing an environment in which companies can practice due diligence and legitimately purchase the minerals they need, when the reality is that mechanisms for transparency do not exist. The effect has been to halt legitimate mining ventures that provided livelihoods for people, reducing the Congo's legal exports of tantalum by 90%.\n\nAn investigation by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that most companies were unable to determine the source of their conflict minerals.\n\nTechnology manufacturers criticized a law which required them to label a product as not \"DRC Conflict Free\" as compelled speech, and in violation of the First Amendment.\n\nThe European Parliament passed legislation in 2015; negotiations are currently underway among member states as to specific wording details.\n\nOn 16 June 2016 the European Parliament confirmed that \"mandatory due diligence\" would be required for \"all but the smallest EU firms importing tin, tungsten, tantalum, gold and their ores\".\n\nOn May 17, 2017 the EU passed Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the Parliament and of the Council on the supply chain due diligence obligations for importers of tin, tantalum, tungsten, their ores, and gold from conflict-affected and high risk areas. The regulation will take effect in January 2021, and will directly apply to companies that import 3TG metals into the EU, no matter where they originate.\n\nOn August 10, 2018 The European Commission published their non-binding guidelines for the identification of conflict-affected and high-risk areas and other supply chain risks under Regulation (EU) 2017/821 of the European Parliament and of the Council.\n\nIncreases in business process outsourcing to globally dispersed production facilities means that social problems and human rights violations are no longer only an organization matter, but also often occur in companies’ supply chains, and challenge for supply chain managers. Besides the harm conflict minerals do where they are produced, human rights violations also raise an enormous risk to corporate reputations. Consumers, mass media and employees expect companies to behave responsibly and have become intolerant of those who don't.\n\nConsequently, firms that are located downstream in the supply chain and that are more visible to stakeholders are particularly threatened by social supply chain problems. The recent debate concerning conflict minerals illustrates the importance of social and human rights issues in supply chain management practice as well as the emerging need to react to social conflicts. Conflict minerals are processed in many different components throughout various industries and hence have a high overall impact on business.\nInitiatives like the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas demand that supply chain managers verify purchased goods as ‘‘conflict-free’’ or implement measures to better manage any inability to do so.\n\nMinerals mined in Eastern Congo pass through the hands of numerous middlemen as they are shipped out of Congo, through neighboring countries such as Rwanda or Burundi, to East Asian processing plants. Because of this, the US Conflict Minerals Law applies to materials originating (or claimed to originate) from the DRC as well as the nine adjoining countries: Angola, Burundi, Central African Republic, Congo Republic, Rwanda, South Sudan, Zimbabwe, Uganda, and Zambia.\n\nFirms have begun to apply governance mechanisms to avoid adverse effects of conflict mineral sourcing. However, the mere transfer of responsibilities upstream in the supply chain apparently will not stop the trade with conflict minerals, notably due to two reasons: \n\nIn the context of mineral supply chains, due diligence represents a holistic concept that aims at providing a chain of custody tracking from mine to export at country level, regional tracking of mineral flows through the creation of a database on their purchases, independent audits on all actors in the supply chain, and a monitoring of the whole mineral chain by a mineral chain auditor. In this sense, due diligence transcends conventional risk management approaches that usually focus on the prevention of direct impacts on the core business activities of companies. Moreover, due diligence focuses on a maximum of transparency as an end itself while risk management is always directed towards the end of averting direct damages. However, besides the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the OECD Guidance, there is still a gap in due diligence practices as international norms are just emerging. Studies found that the motivation for supply chain due diligence as well as expected outcomes of these processes vary among firms. Furthermore, different barriers, drivers, and implementation patterns of supply chain due diligence have been identified in scholarly research.\n\nA number of organizations and celebrities working to find solutions and raise awareness of conflict minerals. These include:\n\n\nMoreover, FairPhone Foundation raises awareness of conflict minerals in the mobile industry and is a company which tries to produce a smart phone with 'fair' conditions along the supply chain. Various industry and trade associations are also monitoring developments in conflict minerals laws and traceability frameworks. Some of these represent electronics, retailers, jewelry, mining, electronics components, and general manufacturing sectors. One organization – ITRI (a UK-based international non-profit organization representing the tin industry and sponsored/supported by its members, principally miners and smelters.) had spearheaded efforts for the development and implementation of a \"bag and tag\" scheme at the mine as a key element of credible traceability. The program and related efforts were initially not likely to extend beyond the pilot phase due to a variety of implementation and funding problems that occurred. In the end however, the device did enter the market.\n\nIn late March 2011, the UK government launched an informational section on its Foreign & Commonwealth Office website dedicated to conflict minerals. This information resource is intended to assist British companies in understanding the issues and, specifically, the US requirements.\n\nOn Jan 6th 2014, the semiconductor giant Intel announced that it would distance itself from conflict minerals. As a result, all Intel microprocessors henceforth will be conflict-free.\n\nManufacturers and supply chain partners needing to comply with the ever-increasing reporting regulations have a few commercial options available.\n\nA major research report from November 2012 by the Southern Africa Resource Watch revealed that gold miners in the east of the Democratic Republic of Congo were being exploited by corrupt government officials, bureaucrats and security personnel, who all demand illegal tax, fees and levies from the miners without delivering any services in return. Despite the alleged gold rush in regions of the country, none of the population and workforce is benefiting from this highly lucrative industry.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7480", "title": "Cross section (physics)", "text": "Cross section (physics)\n\nWhen two particles interact, their mutual cross section is the area transverse to their relative motion within which they must meet in order to scatter from each other. If the particles are hard inelastic spheres that interact only upon contact, their scattering cross section is related to their geometric size. If the particles interact through some action-at-a-distance force, such as electromagnetism or gravity, their scattering cross section is generally larger than their geometric size. When a cross section is specified as a function of some final-state variable, such as particle angle or energy, it is called a differential cross section. When a cross section is integrated over all scattering angles (and possibly other variables), it is called a total cross section. Cross sections are typically denoted (sigma) and measured in units of area.\n\nScattering cross sections may be defined in nuclear, atomic, and particle physics for collisions of accelerated beams of one type of particle with targets (either stationary or moving) of a second type of particle. The probability for any given reaction to occur is in proportion to its cross section. Thus, specifying the cross section for a given reaction is a proxy for stating the probability that a given scattering process will occur.\n\nThe measured reaction rate of a given process depends strongly on experimental variables such as the density of the target material, the intensity of the beam, the detection efficiency of the apparatus, or the angle setting of the detection apparatus. However, these quantities can be factored away, allowing measurement of the underlying two-particle collisional cross section.\n\nDifferential and total scattering cross sections are among the most important measurable quantities in nuclear, atomic, and particle physics.\n\nIn a gas of finite-sized particles there are collisions among particles that depend on their cross-sectional size. The average distance that a particle travels between collisions depends on the density of gas particles. These quantities are related by\n\nwhere\n\nIf the particles in the gas can be treated as hard spheres of radius that interact by direct contact, as illustrated in Figure 1, then the effective cross section for the collision of a pair is\n\nIf the particles in the gas interact by a force with a larger range than their physical size, then the cross section is a larger effective area that may depend on a variety of variables such as the energy of the particles.\n\nCross sections can be computed for atomic collisions but also are used in the subatomic realm. For example, in nuclear physics a \"gas\" of low-energy neutrons collides with nuclei in a reactor or other nuclear device, with a cross section that is energy-dependent and hence also with well-defined mean free path between collisions.\n\nIf a beam of particles enters a thin layer of material of thickness , the flux of the beam will decrease by according to\n\nwhere is the total cross section of \"all\" events, including scattering, absorption, or transformation to another species. The number density of scattering centers is designated by . Solving this equation exhibits the exponential attenuation of the beam intensity:\n\nwhere is the initial flux, and is the total thickness of the material. For light, this is called the Beer–Lambert law.\n\nConsider a classical measurement where a single particle is scattered off a single stationary target particle. Conventionally, a Spherical coordinate system is used, with the target placed at the origin and the axis of this coordinate system aligned with the incident beam. The angle is the scattering angle, measured between the incident beam and the scattered beam, and the is the azimuthal angle.\n\nThe impact parameter is the perpendicular offset of the trajectory of the incoming particle, and the outgoing particle emerges at an angle . For a given interaction (Coulombic, magnetic, gravitational, contact, etc.), the impact parameter and the scattering angle have a definite one-to-one functional dependence on each other. Generally the impact parameter can neither be controlled nor measured from event to event and is assumed to take all possible values when averaging over many scattering events. The differential size of the cross section is the area element in the plane of the impact parameter, i.e. . The differential angular range of the scattered particle at angle is the solid angle element . The differential cross section is the quotient of these quantities, .\n\nIt is a function of the scattering angle (and therefore also the impact parameter), plus other observables such as the momentum of the incoming particle. The differential cross section is always taken to be positive, even though larger impact parameters generally produce less deflection. In cylindrically symmetric situations (about the beam axis), the azimuthal angle is not changed by the scattering process, and the differential cross section can be written as\n\nIn situations where the scattering process is not azimuthally symmetric, such as when the beam or target particles possess magnetic moments oriented perpendicular to the beam axis, the differential cross section must also be expressed as a function of the azimuthal angle.\n\nFor scattering of particles of incident flux off a stationary target consisting of many particles, the differential cross section at an angle is related to the flux of scattered particle detection in particles per unit time by\n\nHere is the finite angular size of the detector (SI unit: sr), is the number density of the target particles (SI units: m), and is the thickness of the stationary target (SI units: m). This formula assumes that the target is thin enough that each beam particle will interact with at most one target particle.\n\nThe total cross section may be recovered by integrating the differential cross section over the full solid angle ( steradians):\n\nIt is common to omit the “differential” qualifier when the type of cross section can be inferred from context. In this case, may be referred to as the \"integral cross section\" or \"total cross section\". The latter term may be confusing in contexts where multiple events are involved, since “total” can also refer to the sum of cross sections over all events.\n\nThe differential cross section is extremely useful quantity in many fields of physics, as measuring it can reveal a great amount of information about the internal structure of the target particles. For example, the differential cross section of Rutherford scattering provided strong evidence for the existence of the atomic nucleus.\n\nInstead of the solid angle, the momentum transfer may be used as the independent variable of differential cross sections.\n\nDifferential cross sections in inelastic scattering contain resonance peaks that indicate the creation of metastable states and contain information about their energy and lifetime.\n\nIn the time-independent formalism of quantum scattering, the initial wave function (before scattering) is taken to be a plane wave with definite momentum :\n\nwhere and are the \"relative\" coordinates between the projectile and the target. The arrow indicates that this only describes the \"asymptotic behavior\" of the wave function when the projectile and target are too far apart for the interaction to have any effect.\n\nAfter the scattering takes place, it is expected that the wave function takes on the following asymptotic form:\n\nwhere is some function of the angular coordinates known as the scattering amplitude. This general form is valid for any short-ranged, energy-conserving interaction. It is not true for long-ranged interactions, so there are additional complications when dealing with electromagnetic interactions.\n\nThe full wave function of the system behaves asymptotically as the sum\n\nThe differential cross section is related to the scattering amplitude:\n\nThis has the simple interpretation as the probability density for finding the scattered projectile at a given angle.\n\nA cross section is therefore a measure of the effective surface area seen by the impinging particles, and as such is expressed in units of area. The cross section of two particles (i.e. observed when the two particles are colliding with each other) is a measure of the interaction event between the two particles. The cross section is proportional to the probability that an interaction will occur; for example in a simple scattering experiment the number of particles scattered per unit of time (current of scattered particles ) depends only on the number of incident particles per unit of time (current of incident particles ), the characteristics of target (for example the number of particles per unit of surface ), and the type of interaction. For we have\n\nIf the reduced masses and momenta of the colliding system are , and , before and after the collision respectively, the differential cross section is given by\n\nwhere the on-shell matrix is defined by\n\nin terms of the S-matrix. Here is the Dirac delta function. The computation of the S-matrix is the main goal of the scattering theory.\n\nAlthough the SI unit of total cross sections is m, smaller units are usually used in practice.\n\nIn nuclear and particle physics, the conventional unit is the barn b, where 1 b = 10 m = 100 fm. Smaller prefixed units such as mb and μb are also widely used. Correspondingly, the differential cross section can be measured in units such as mb/sr.\n\nWhen the scattered radiation is visible light, it is conventional to measure the path length in centimetres. To avoid the need for conversion factors, the scattering cross section is expressed in cm, and the number concentration in cm. The measurement of the scattering of visible light is known as nephelometry, and is effective for particles of 2–50 µm in diameter: as such, it is widely used in meteorology and in the measurement of atmospheric pollution.\n\nThe scattering of X-rays can also be described in terms of scattering cross sections, in which case the square ångström is a convenient unit: 1 Å = 10 m = = 10 b.\n\nFor light, as in other settings, the scattering cross section is generally different from the geometrical cross section of a particle, and it depends upon the wavelength of light and the permittivity, shape and size of the particle. The total amount of scattering in a sparse medium is proportional to the product of the scattering cross section and the number of particles present.\n\nIn terms of area, the \"total cross section\" () is the sum of the cross sections due to absorption, scattering and luminescence. The sum of the absorption and scattering cross sections is sometimes referred to as the extinction cross section.\nThe total cross section is related to the absorbance of the light intensity through the Beer–Lambert law, which says that absorbance is proportional to particle concentration:\nwhere is the absorbance at a given wavelength , is the particle concentration as a number density, and is the path length. The absorbance of the radiation is the logarithm (decadic or, more usually, natural) of the reciprocal of the transmittance :\n\nIn the context of scattering light on extended bodies, the scattering cross section, , describes the likelihood of light being scattered by a macroscopic particle. In general, the scattering cross section is different from the geometrical cross section of a particle, as it depends upon the wavelength of light and the permittivity in addition to the shape and size of the particle. The total amount of scattering in a sparse medium is determined by the product of the scattering cross section and the number of particles present. In terms of area, the \"total cross section\" () is the sum of the cross sections due to absorption, scattering and luminescence:\n\nThe total cross section is related to the absorbance of the light intensity through the Beer–Lambert law, which says that absorbance is proportional to concentration: , where is the absorbance at a given wavelength , is the concentration as a number density, and is the path length. The extinction or absorbance of the radiation is the logarithm (decadic or, more usually, natural) of the reciprocal of the transmittance :\n\nThere is no simple relationship between the scattering cross section and the physical size of the particles, as the scattering cross section depends on the wavelength of radiation used. This can be seen when driving in foggy weather: the droplets of water (which form the fog) scatter red light less than they scatter the shorter wavelengths present in white light, and the red rear fog light can be distinguished more clearly than the white headlights of an approaching vehicle. That is to say that the scattering cross section of the water droplets is smaller for red light than for light of shorter wavelengths, even though the physical size of the particles is the same.\n\nThe scattering cross section is related to the meteorological range :\n\nThe quantity is sometimes denoted , the scattering coefficient per unit length.\n\nThe elastic collision of two hard spheres is an instructive example that demonstrates the sense of calling this quantity a cross section. and are respectively the radii of the scattering center and scattered sphere.\nThe total cross section is\n\nSo in this case the total scattering cross section is equal to the area of the circle (with radius ) within which the center of mass of the incoming sphere has to arrive for it to be deflected, and outside which it passes by the stationary scattering center.\n\nAnother example illustrates the details of the calculation of a simple light scattering model obtained by a reduction of the dimension. For simplicity, we will consider the scattering of a beam of light on a plane treated as a uniform density of parallel rays and within the framework of geometrical optics from a circle with radius with a perfectly reflecting boundary. Its three-dimensional equivalent is therefore the more difficult problem of a laser or flashlight light scattering from the mirror sphere, for example, from the mechanical bearing ball. The unit of cross section in one dimension is the unit of length, for example 1 m. Let be the angle between the light ray and the radius joining the reflection point of the light ray with the center point of the circle mirror. Then the increase of the length element perpendicular to the light beam is expressed by this angle as\nthe reflection angle of this ray with respect to the incoming ray is then , and the scattering angle is\nThe energy or the number of photons reflected from the light beam with the intensity or density of photons on the length is \nThe differential cross section is therefore ()\nAs it is seen from the behaviour of the sine function, this quantity has the maximum for the backward scattering (; the light is reflected perpendicularly and returns), and the zero minimum for the scattering from the edge of the circle directly forward (). It confirms the intuitive expectations that the mirror circle acts like a diverging lens, and a thin beam is more diluted the closer it is from the edge defined with respect to the incoming direction. The total cross section can be obtained by summing (integrating) the differential section of the entire range of angles:\nso it is equal as much as the circular mirror is totally screening the two-dimensional space for the beam of light. In three dimensions for the mirror ball with the radius it is therefore equal .\n\nWe can now use the result from the Example 2 to calculate the differential cross section for the light scattering from the perfectly reflecting sphere in three dimensions. Let us denote now the radius of the sphere as . Let us parametrize the plane perpendicular to the incoming light beam by the cylindrical coordinates and . In any plane of the incoming and the reflected ray we can write now from the previous example:\nwhile the impact area element is \nUsing the relation for the solid angle in the spherical coordinates:\nand the trigonometric identity\nwe obtain\nwhile the total cross section as we expected is\nAs one can see, it also agrees with the result from the Example 1 if the photon is assumed to be a rigid sphere of zero radius.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n\n"}
{"id": "529169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=529169", "title": "Earl Shaffer", "text": "Earl Shaffer\n\nEarl V. Shaffer (November 8, 1918 – May 5, 2002), was an American outdoorsman and author known from 1948 as The Crazy One (and eventually as The Original Crazy One) for attempting what became the first publicized claimed hiking trip in a single season over the entire length of the Appalachian Trail (AT). He also worked as a carpenter, a soldier specializing in radar and radio installation, and an antique dealer.\n\nShaffer was born in rural York, Pennsylvania, which lies approximately twenty miles from the AT, and which he always made his home. In the late 1930s he hiked with a neighbor and close friend, Walter Winemiller, and they made plans to hike the whole of the AT together, after the war that they anticipated the US would eventually enter.\n\nShaffer enlisted in the army in 1941, was well along in his training at the time of the Pearl Harbor attack, and did arduous and risky service as a forward-area radioman in the South Pacific into 1945. His friend Winemiller served in the Pacific Theater as well, and died in the Iwo Jima landings. Shaffer said he did the trail to \"walk the war out of my system\".\n\nIn 1948, he began the journey from Mt. Oglethorpe, in Georgia (the trail's southern end at that time). With sparse equipment that would be regarded as grossly inadequate by most of the through-hikers since – he used worn boots, his army rucksack, and no stove or tent – he reached Mt. Katahdin in Maine, in 124 days, averaging 17 miles per day. Especially after he overcame the skepticism of Appalachian Trail Conference officials (who initially believed his claim of completing the route was obviously fraudulent), his trip raised public awareness of the Trail. He privately published his memoir of the experience; his book, \"Walking With Spring\" (), reflects the experience of most AT hikers, that the project of making the whole trip in the northward direction (the most common choice), is furthered by a start timed to the weather in the Georgia mountains, and by continually taking advantage of the northward progress of milder weather.\n\nIn 1965 Shaffer hiked in 99 days from Maine to Springer Mountain, which had recently replaced Oglethorpe as the Trail's Georgia end, becoming the first person to claim a complete trip in each direction. \n\nIn 1982, the Appalachian Trail Conference published Shaffer's \"Walking With Spring\" commercially; it is now called \"a classic trail diary\".\n\nIn 1998, he claimed another northward through-hike (at age 79) from May 2 to October 21 (six days past official closing of the state park), in 174 days, for the 50th anniversary of his first one, with David Donaldson (known as \"The Spirit of '48\"). He later developed his notes from this trip, under the working title \"Ode to the Appalachian Trail\", into \"The Appalachian Trail: Calling Me Back To The Hills\".\n\nShaffer was diagnosed with liver cancer, and died of its complications soon after on May 5, 2002. Donaldson, his most recent through-hike companion, was at his bedside.\n\nOn June 17, 2011, he was inducted into the Appalachian Trail Hall of Fame at the Appalachian Trail Museum as a charter member.\n\n"}
{"id": "19236636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19236636", "title": "Ecosystem-based management", "text": "Ecosystem-based management\n\nEcosystem-based management is an environmental management approach that recognizes the full array of interactions within an ecosystem, including humans, rather than considering single issues, species, or ecosystem services in isolation. It can be applied to studies in the terrestrial and marine environments with challenges being attributed to both. In the marine realm, they are highly challenging to quantify due to highly migratory species as well as rapidly changing environmental and anthropogenic factors that can alter the habitat rather quickly. To be able to manage fisheries efficiently and effectively it has become increasingly more pertinent to understand not only the biological aspects of the species being studied, but also the environmental variables they are experiencing. Population abundance and structure, life history traits, competition with other species, where the stock is in the local food web, tidal fluctuations, salinity patterns and anthropogenic influences are among the variables that must be taken into account to fully understand the implementation of a \"ecosystem-based management\" approach. Interest in ecosystem-based management in the marine realm has developed more recently, in response to increasing recognition of the declining state of fisheries and ocean ecosystems. However, due to a lack of a clear definition and the diversity involved with the environment, the implementation has been lagging.\n\nTerrestrial ecosystem-based management (often referred to as ecosystem management) came into its own during the conflicts over endangered species protection (particularly the northern spotted owl), land conservation, and water, grazing and timber rights in the western United States in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nThe systemic origins of ecosystem-based management are rooted in the ecosystem management policy applied to the Great Lakes of North America in the late 1970s. The legislation created, the \"Great Lakes Basin and the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement of 1978\", was based on the claim that \"no park is an island\", with the purpose to show how strict protection of the area is not the best method for preservation. This type of management system was however an idea that began long before and evolved through the testing and challenging of common ecosystem management practices.\n\nBefore its complete synthesis, the management system's historical development can be traced back to the 1930s. During this time, the scientific communities who studied ecology realized that current approaches to the management of national parks did not provide effective protection of the species within. In 1932, The Ecological Society of America's Committee for the Study of Plant and Animal Communities recognized that US national parks needed to protect all the ecosystems contained within the park in order to create an inclusive and fully functioning sanctuary, and be prepared to handle natural fluctuations in its ecology. Also the committee explained the importance for interagency cooperation and improved public education, as well as challenged the idea that proper park management would \"improve\" nature. These ideas became the foundation of modern ecosystem-based management.\n\nAs the understanding of how to manage ecosystems shifted, new tenets of the management system were produced. Biologists George Wright and Ben Thompson accounted for the size and boundary limitations of parks and contributed to the re-structuring of how park lines were drawn. They explained how large mammals for example could not be supported within the restricted zones of a national park and in order to protect these animals and their ecosystems a new approach would be needed. Other scientists followed suit, but none were successful in establishing a well-defined ecosystem-based management approach.\n\nIn 1979, the importance of ecosystem-based management resurfaced in ecology from two biologists: John and Frank Craighead. The Craigheads found that grizzly bears of Yellowstone National Park could not sustain a population if only allowed to live within park boundaries. This reinforced the idea that a broader definition of what defines an ecosystem needed to be created, suggesting that it be based on the biotic requirements of the largest mammal present.\n\nThe idea of ecosystem-based management began to catch on and projects throughout American National Parks reflected the idea of protecting an ecosystem in its entirety and not based on legal or ecological restrictions as previously used. Jim Agee and Darryll Johnson published a book-length report on managing ecosystems in 1988 explaining the theoretical framework management. While they did not fully embrace ecosystem-based management by still calling for \"ecologically defined boundaries\", they stated the importance of \"clearly stated management goals, interagency cooperation, monitoring of management results, and leadership at the national policy levels\". Most importantly they demanded the recognition of human influence. It was argued that scientists must keep in mind the \"complex social context of their work\" and always be moving towards \"socially desirable conditions\". This need to understand the social aspects of scientific management is the fundamental step from ecological management to ecosystem-based management.\n\nAlthough it continues to become recognized, a debate over ecosystem-based management continues. Grumbine (1994) believes, while the approach has evolved, it has not been fully incorporated into management practices because the most effective forms of it have yet to be seen. He articulates that the current ecological climate calls for the most holistic approach of ecological management. This is in part due to the rapid decline in biodiversity and because of the constant state of flux in societal and political views of nature. Conflicts over public interest and understanding of the natural world have created social and political climates that require interagency cooperation, which stands as a backbone for ecosystem-based management.\n\nBecause ecosystem-based management is applied to large, diverse areas encompassing an array of interactions between species, ecosystem components, and humans, it is often perceived as a complex process that is difficult to implement. Slocombe (1998b) also noted that in addition, uncertainty is common and predictions are difficult. However, in light of significant ecosystem degradation, there is a need for a holistic approach that combines environmental knowledge and co-ordination with governing agencies to initiate, sustain and enforce habitat and species protection, and include public education and involvement. As a result, ecosystem-based management will likely be increasingly used in the future as a form of environmental management. Some suggestions for implementing ecosystem-based management and what the process may involve are as follows:\n\nDefining clear and concise goals for ecosystem-based management is one of the most important steps in effective ecosystem-based management implementation. Goals must move beyond science-based or science-defined objectives to include social, cultural, economic and environmental importance. Of equal importance is to make sure that the community and stake-holders are involved throughout the entire process. Slocombe (1998a) also stated that a single, end-all goal cannot be the solution, but instead a combination of goals and their relationships with each other should be the focus.\n\nAs discussed by Slocombe (1998a), goals should be broadly applicable, measurable and readily observable, and ideally be collectively supported in order to be achievable. The idea is to provide direction for both thinking and action and should try to minimize managing ecosystems in a static state. Goals should also be flexible enough to incorporate a measure of uncertainty and be able to evolve as conditions and knowledge change. This may involve focusing on specific threatening processes, such as habitat loss or introduced invasive species, occurring within an ecosystem. Overall the goals should be integrative, to include the structure, organization and processes of the management of an area. Correct ecosystem-based management should be based in goals that are both \"substantive\", to explain the aims and importance of protecting an area, and \"procedural\", to explain how substantive goals will be met.\n\nAs described by Tallis et al. (2010), some steps of ecosystem-based management may include:\n\nThis step involves the acquisition of data and knowledge from various sources in order to provide a thorough understanding of critical ecosystem components. Sources may include literature, informal sources such as aboriginal residents, resource users, and/or environmental experts. Data may also be gained through statistical analyses, simulation models, or conceptual models.\n\nEcological indicators are useful for tracking or monitoring an ecosystem's status and can provide feedback on management progress as stressed by Slocombe (1998a). Examples may include the population size of a species or the levels of toxin present in a body of water. Social indicators may also be used such as the number or types of jobs within the environmental sector or the livelihood of specific social groups such as indigenous peoples.\n\nTallis et al. (2010) suggest setting thresholds for each indicator and setting targets that would represent a desired level of health for the ecosystem. Examples may include species composition within an ecosystem or the state of habitat conditions based on local observations or stakeholder interviews. Thresholds can be used to help guide management, particularly for a species by looking at the conservation status criteria established by either state or federal agencies and using models such as the minimum viable population size.\n\nA range of threats and disturbances, both natural and human, often can affect indicators. Risk is defined as the sensitivity of an indicator to an ecological disturbance. Several models can be used to assess risk such as population viability analysis.\n\nEvaluating the effectiveness of the implemented management strategies is very important in determining how management actions are affecting the ecosystem indicators.\nEvaluation: This final step involves monitoring and assessing data to see how well the management strategies chosen are performing relative to the initial objectives stated. The use of simulation models or multi-stakeholder groups can help to assess management.\n\nIt is important to note that many of these steps for implementing ecosystem-based management are limited by the governance in place for a region, the data available for assessing ecosystem status and reflecting on the changes occurring, and the time frame in which to operate.\n\nBecause ecosystems differ greatly and express varying degrees of vulnerability, it is difficult to apply a functional framework that can be universally applied. These outlined steps or components of ecosystem-based management can, for the most part, be applied to multiple situations and are only suggestions for improving or guiding the challenges involved with managing complex issues. Because of the greater amount of influences, impacts, and interactions to account for, problems, obstacles and criticism often arise within ecosystem-based management. There is also a need for more data, spatially and temporally to help management make sound decisions for the sustainability of the stock being studied.\n\nThe first commonly defined challenge is the need for meaningful and appropriate management units. Slocombe (1998b) noted that these units must be broad and contain value for people in and outside of the protected area. For example, Aberley (1993) suggests the use of \"bioregions\" as management units, which can allow peoples involvement with that region to come through. To define management units as inclusive regions rather that exclusive ecological zones would prevent further limitations created by narrow or restricting political and economic policy created from the units. Slocombe (1998b) suggests that better management units should be flexible and build from existing units and that the biggest challenge is creating truly effect units for managers to compare against.\n\nAnother issue is in the creation of administrative bodies. They should operate as the essence of ecosystem-based management, working together towards mutually agreed upon goals. Gaps in administration or research, competing objectives or priorities between management agencies and governments due to overlapping jurisdictions, or obscure goals such as sustainability, ecosystem integrity, or biodiversity can often result in fragmented or weak management. In addition, Tallis (2010) stated that limited knowledge of ecosystem components and function and time constraints that can often limit objectives to only those that can be addressed in the short-term.\n\nThe most challenging issue facing ecosystem-based management is that there exists little knowledge about the system and its effectiveness. Slocombe (1998b) stated that with limited resources available on how to implement the system it is hard to find support for its use.\n\nSlocombe (1998a) said that criticism of ecosystem-based management include its reliance on analogy and comparisons, too broadly applied frameworks, its overlap with or duplication of other methods such as ecosystem management, environmental management, or integrated ecosystem assessment, its vagueness in concepts and application, and its tendency to ignore historical, evolutionary or individual factors that may heavily influence ecosystem functioning.\n\nTallis (2010) stated that ecosystem-based management is seen as a critical planning and management framework for conserving or restoring ecosystems though it is still not widely implemented. An ecosystem approach addresses many relationships across spatial, biological, and organizational scales and is a goal-driven approach to restoring and sustaining ecosystems and functions. In addition, ecosystem-based management involves community influence as well as planning and management from local, regional and national government bodies and management agencies. All must be in collaboration in order to develop a desired future of ecosystem conditions, particularly where ecosystems have undergone radical degradation and change. Slocombe (1998b) said that to move forward, ecosystem-based management should be approached through adaptive management, allowing flexibility and inclusiveness to deal with constant environmental, societal, and political change.\n\nEcosystem-based management for marine environments moves away from the traditional strategies in which single species and single sectors are managed individually; rather it is an integrated approach which considers all key activities, particularly anthropogenic, that affect marine environments. The management must take into account the life history of the fish being studied, its association with the surrounding environment, its place in the food web, where it prefers to reside in the water column and how it is affected by human pressures. The objective is to ensure sustainable ecosystems, thus protecting the resources and services they provide for future generations.\n\nIn recent years there has been increasing recognition of disruption to marine ecosystems resulting from climate change, overfishing, nutrient and chemical pollution from land runoff, coastal development, bycatch, habitat destruction and other anthropogenic sources. There are very clear links between human activities and marine ecosystem functioning; this has become an issue of high importance because there are many services provided by marine ecosystems that are declining as a result of these impacts. These services include the provision of food, fuel, mineral resources, pharmaceuticals, as well as opportunities for recreation, trade, research and education.\n\nGuerry (2005) has identified an urgent need to improve the management of these declining ecosystems, particularly in coastal areas, to ensure a sustainable future. Human communities depend on marine ecosystems for important resources, but without holistic management these ecosystems are likely to collapse. It has been suggested that the degradation of marine ecosystems is largely the result of poor governance and that new approaches to management are required. The Pew Oceans Commission and the United States Commission on Ocean Policy have indicated the importance of moving from current piecemeal management to a more integrated ecosystem-based approach.\n\nIn marine environments, it can be increasingly difficult to determine what part of the population a certain stock comes from. In the case of the Southern bluefin tuna, it is all one taxonomic stock while in the Pacific Northwest, each river has its own stock of pacific salmon and thus, the clear definition of a particular stock can be quite challenging. With knowledge on the specific species life history, stock assessment can be much easier and therefore, knowledge on the animals breeding patterns, juvenile state and morphological patterns are essential.\n\nWhen trying to analyze the specific species, the manager needs to fully understand where the species is in terms of the food web. In the North Sea, the puffin population crashed and no one was quite sure why. After further analysis, they realized that the decline in seabird numbers was due to the sandeel population being severely depleted due to fishing pressures and this is an example of top down. In Alaska, the sea otter was hunted mainly for its pelt and was nearly pushed to extinction. As their numbers dwindled, the kelp beds were disappearing as well at an alarming rate due to the sea urchins having no predators and eating all of the kelp. As the sea otters were removed, the rest of the ecosystem in the food chain beneath them were affected, an example of top-down.\n\nIn the Gulf of Mexico, the red snapper is one of the most important economical species there is. However, it is a very difficult species to manage due to the bycatch associated with the shrimping industry. The juveniles are caught in the smaller mesh size used for the shrimp and thus, a large portion of the red snapper population is subject due to mortality not associated with the red snapper fishery.\n\nAt its core, ecosystem-based management is about acknowledging interdependency connections, including the linkages between marine ecosystems and human societies, economies and institutional systems, as well as those among various species within an ecosystem and among ocean places that are linked by the movement of species, materials, and ocean currents. Of particular importance is how these factors all react and involve each other. In the Caribbean, the spiny lobster is managed based on a classic population model that for most fishery species works quite well. However, this species will grow and then halt its growth when it need to molt its shell and thus instead of a continuous growth cycle, it will pause its growth and invest its energy in a new shell. To further complicate matters, it slows this process down as it gets older to invest more energy into reproduction thus further deviating itself from the von Bertalanffy model of growth that was applied to it. The more information we can gather about an ecosystem and all of the interconnected factors which affect it, the more capable we will be of better managing that system.\n\nEcosystem-based management focuses on how individual actions affect the ecosystem services that flow from coupled socio-ecological systems in an integrated fashion, rather than considering these impacts in a piecemeal manner. Loss of biodiversity in marine ecosystems is an example of how cumulative effects from different sectors can impact on an ecosystem in a compounding way. Overfishing, coastal development, filling and dredging, mining and other human activities all contribute to the loss of biodiversity and therefore degradation of the ecosystem. Work is needed prior to the carrying out of the research to understand the total effects that each species can have on each other and also on the environment. It must be carried out every year as well as species are changing their life history traits and their relationship with the environment as humans are continually modifying the environment.\n\nThe only way to deal with the cumulative effects of human influences on marine ecosystems is for various contributing sectors to set common goals for the protection or management of ecosystems. While some policies may only affect a single sector, others may affect multiple sectors. A policy for the protection of endangered marine species, for example, could affect recreational and commercial fisheries, mining, shipping and tourism sectors to name a few. More effective ecosystem management would result from the collective adoption of policies by all sectors, rather than each sector creating their own isolated policies. For example, in the Gulf of Mexico there are oil rigs, recreational fisheries, commercial fisheries and multiple tourist attractions. One of the main fisheries is that of the Red Snapper which inhabits much of the Gulf and employs thousands of people in the commercial and recreational fishery. During the Deepwater oil spill it became abundantly obvious that it negatively affected the population numbers as well as the integrity of the catch that was being made. The species not only suffered higher mortality rates but the market was less trusting of the product. An environmental disaster interacted with the commercial, recreational, and economic sector for a specific species.\n\nNot all members of the public will be properly informed, or be fully aware, of current threats to marine ecosystems and it is therefore important to change public perceptions by informing people about these issues. It is important to consider the interest of the public when making decisions about ocean management and not just those who have a material interest because community support is needed by management agencies in order to make decisions. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority (GBRMPA) faced the issue of poor public awareness in their proposed management strategy which included no-take fishing zones. Olssen (2008) addressed this problem by starting a 'reef under pressure' information campaign to prove to the public that the Great Barrier Reef is under threat from human disturbances, and in doing so were successful in gaining public support.\n\nTo ensure that all key players are on the same page, it is important to have communication between managers, resource users, scientists, government bodies and other stakeholders. Leslie and McLeod (2007) stated that proper engagement between these groups will enable the development of management initiatives that are realistic and enforceable as well as effective for ecosystem management. If certain small-scale players are not involved or informed, it is highly unlikely and equally challenging to get them to cooperate as well as to follow the rules that need to be put in place. It is of the utmost importance to have every stakeholder involved with every step of the process to increase the cohesion of the process.\n\nCoupled social-ecological systems are constantly changing in ways that cannot be fully predicted or controlled. Understanding the resilience of ecosystems, i.e. the extent to which they can maintain structure, function, and identity in the face of disturbance, can enable better prediction of how ecosystems will respond to both natural and anthropogenic perturbations, and to changes in environmental management. With how much modification humans are doing to environments, it is important to understand these changes on a yearly basis as well. Some species are changing their life histories, Flounder, due to the increased pressures that humans are placing on the environment. Thus, when a manager or government does an assessment on the ecosystem for a given year, the relationship that a species has to others can change very quickly and thus negate the model that you use for an ecosystem very quickly if not redefined.\n\nEcosystem-based management focuses on the diverse benefits provided by marine systems, rather than on single ecosystem services. Such benefits or services include vibrant commercial and recreational fisheries, biodiversity conservation, renewable energy from wind or waves and coastal protection. The goal is to provide a sustainable fisheries while incorporating the impacts of other aspects on that resource. When managed correctly, an ecosystem-based model can greatly improve not only the resource being managed, but those associated with it.\n\nBecause of the lack of control and predictability of coupled social-ecological systems, an adaptive management approach is recommended. There can be multiple different factors that must be overcome (fisheries, pollution, borders, multiple agencies, etc.) to create a positive outcome. Managers must be able to react and adapt as to limit the variance associated with the outcome.\n\nThe Land and Resource Management Planning (LRMP) was implemented by the British Columbia Government (Canada) in the mid-1990s in the Great Bear Rainforest in order to establish a multiparty land-use planning system. The aim was to \"maintain the ecological integrity of terrestrial, marine and freshwater ecosystems and achieve high levels of human well-being\". The steps described in the programme included: protect old-growth forests, maintain forest structure at the stand level, protect threatened and endangered species and ecosystems, protect wetlands and apply adaptive management. MacKinnon (2008) highlighted that the main limitation of this program was the social and economic aspects related to the lack of orientation to improve human well-being.\n\nA Remedial Action Plan (RAP) was created during the Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement that implemented ecosystem-based management. The transition, according to the authors, from \"a narrow to a broader approach \" was not easy because it required the cooperation of both the Canadian and American governments. This meant different cultural, political and regulatory perspectives were involved with regards to the lakes. Hartig et al. (1998) described eight principles required to make the implementation of ecosystem-based management efficacious: \"broad-based stakeholder involvement; commitment of top leaders; agreement on information needs and interpretation; action planning within a strategic framework; human resource development; results and indicators to measure progress; systematic review and feedback; and stakeholder satisfaction\".\n\nPeruvian Bay Scallop is grown in the benthic environment. Intensity of the fishery has caused concern over recent years and there has been a shift to more of an environmental management scheme. They are now using food web models to assess the current situation and to calibrate the stocking levels that are needed. The impacts of the scallops on the ecosystem and on other species are now being taken into account as to limit phytoplankton blooms, overstocking, diseases and overconsumption in a given year. This study is proposed to help guide both fisherman and managers in their goal of providing long term success for the fishery as well as the ecosystem they are utilizing.\n\nThe Elwha dam removal in Washington state is the largest dam removal project in the United States. Not only was it blocking several species of salmon from reaching their natural habitat, it also had millions of tons of sediment built up behind it. Once the dam was removed it has drastically altered the environment that was in place. As the environment continues to change over the unforeseeable future, it is imperative to take into account how the species evolve and respond. During the first few years there were no salmon swimming upriver due to the amount of sediment still built up. However, over the past few years there have been more fish swimming upriver to their historic breeding grounds. The sediment not only affected the salmon but also the forage fish outside the river mouth as well as the seagrass beds. Therefore, management of the seagrass beds, which are linked as a nursery for the forage fish is necessary. The forage fish are also prey for the salmon. There are links associated with every aspect of the ecosystem involved with the dam removal on the Elwha River\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58512652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58512652", "title": "Electric grid security", "text": "Electric grid security\n\nElectric grid security refers to the activities that utilities, regulators, and other stakeholders play in securing the national electricity grid. The American electrical grid is going through one of the largest changes in its history, which is the move to smart grid technology. The smart grid allows energy customers and energy providers to more efficiently manage and generate electricity. Similar to other new technologies, the smart grid also introduces new concerns about security.\n\nUtility owners and operators (whether investor-owned, municipal, or cooperative) typically are responsible for implementing system improvements with regards to cybersecurity. Executives in the utilities industry are beginning to recognize the business impact of cybersecurity.\n\nElectric grids can be targets of military or terrorist activity. When American military leaders created their first air war plan against the Axis in 1941, Germany's electric grid was at the top of the target list.\n\nThe North American electrical power grid is a highly connected system. The ongoing modernization of the grid is generally referred to as the \"smart grid.\" Reliability and efficiency are two key drivers of the development of the smart grid. Another example is the ability for the electrical system to incorporate renewable energy sources such as wind power and geothermal power. One of the key issues for electric grid security is that these ongoing improvements and modernizations have created more risk to the system. As an example, one risk specifically comes from the integration of digital communications and computer infrastructure with the existing physical infrastructure of the power grid.\n\nAccording to the academic journal \"IEEE Security & Privacy Magazine\", \"The smart grid . . . uses intelligent transmission and distribution networks to deliver electricity. This approach aims to improve the electric system's reliability, security, and efficiency through two-way communication of consumption data and dynamic optimization of electric-system operations, maintenance, and planning.\"\n\nIn the U.S., the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) is in charge of the cybersecurity standards for the bulk power system. The system includes systems necessary for operating the interconnected grid.\n\nInvestor-owned utilities operate under a different authority, state public utility commissions. This falls outside of FERC's jurisdiction.\n\nAs of 2018, two evolutions are taking place in the power economic sector. These evolutions could make it harder for utilities to defend from a cyber threat. First, hackers have become more sophisticated in their attempts to disrupt electric grids. \"Attacks are more targeted, including spear phishing efforts aimed at individuals, and are shifting from corporate networks to include industrial control systems.\" Second, the grid is becoming more and more distributed and connected. The growing \"Internet of Things\" world could make it so that every device could be a potential vulnerability.\n\nAs of 2006, over 200,000 miles of transmission lines that are 230 kV or higher existed in the United States. The main problem is that it is impossible to secure the whole system from terrorist attacks. The scenario of such a terrorist attack, however, would be minimal because it would only disrupt a small portion of the overall grid. For example, an attack that destroys a regional transmission tower would only have a temporary impact. The modern-day electric grid system is capable of restoring equipment that is damaged by natural disasters such as tornadoes, hurricanes, ice storms, and earthquakes in a generally short period of time. This is due to the resiliency of the national grid to such events. \"It would be difficult for even a well-organized large group of terrorists to cause the physical damage of a small- to moderate-scale tornado.\"\n\nToday the utility industry is advancing cybersecurity with a series of initiatives. They are partnering with federal agencies. The goal is to improve sector-wide resilience to both physical and cyber threats. The industry is also working with National Institute of Standards and Technology, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, and federal intelligence and law enforcement agencies.\n\nIn September 2018, Brien Sheahan, chairman and CEO of the Illinois Commerce Commission and a member of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Nuclear Energy Advisory Committee, and Robert Powelson, a former Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) commissioner, wrote in a published piece in \"Utility Dive\" that cyberthreats to the national power system require stronger national standards and more collaboration between levels of government. Recent to their article, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security confirmed that Russian hackers targeted the control room's of American public utilities. The electric distribution system has become more and more networked together and interconnected. Critical public services depend on the system: water delivery, financial institutions, hospitals, and public safety. To prevent disruption to the network, Sheahan and Powelson recommended national standards and collaboration between federal and state energy regulators.\n\nSome utility companies have cybersecurity-specific practices or teams. Baltimore Gas and Electric conducts regular drills with its employees. It also shares cyber-threat related information with industry and government partners. Duke Energy put together a corporate incident response team that is devoted to cybersecurity 24 hours a day. The unit works closely with government emergency management and law enforcement.\n\nSome states have cybersecurity procedures and practices:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7648402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7648402", "title": "Energy in Bulgaria", "text": "Energy in Bulgaria\n\nEnergy in Bulgaria describes energy and electricity production, consumption and trade in Bulgaria.\n\nAlthough Bulgaria is not very rich in fossil fuels such as coal, oil and gas, it has very well developed energy sector which is of crucial importance for the Balkans and the whole South Eastern Europe. Nuclear power produces 36% of Bulgaria's power. Bulgaria is a major producer and exporter of electricity in the region and plays an important role in the energy balance on the Balkans. The country's strategic geographical location makes it a major hub for transit and distribution of oil and gas from Russia to Western Europe and other Balkan states.\n\nTo improve the corporate management and supervision of the energy sector, on 13 February 2008 the Government of Bulgaria decided to set up a state-owned energy holding company Bulgarian Energy Holding EAD, a successor of the state-owned 'Neft i Gas' (Oil and Gas) established in 1973. The holding company's business composes of subsidiaries operating in different energy sectors: electricity: Kozloduy nuclear power plant, Maritsa East 2 thermal power plant, NEK EAD and Elektroenergien sistemen operator (ESO); natural gas: Bulgargaz and Bulgartransgaz; coal mining: Mini Maritsa Iztok (Maritsa East mines). The state holds a 100% stake in the holding company.\n\nThe country has extensive deposits of coal but these are mostly lignite. The reserves of lignite coal are estimated to 4.5 billion tons and they are located in the Maritsa Iztok Coal Basin (around 70%), Sofia Coal Basin and Lom coalfield. The reserves of brown coal are 800 million tons with major deposits near Pernik, Bobov Dol and Cherno More mines. The reserves of anthracite are slightly more than 1.2 billion tons but more than 95% of these are located in the Dobruja Coal Basin at depth of some 1.5 km and at this stage cannot be exploited. There are several minor oil and gas deposits in Northern Bulgaria.\n\nBulgaria is believed to have extensive natural gas resources but due to a successful campaign against hydraulic fracturing does not, as of 2014, permit exploration or exploitation of this possibility.\n\nThe production of electricity was 38.07 billion kWh in 2006. For comparison, Romania, which has a population nearly three times larger than that of Bulgaria, produced 51.7 billion kWh in the same year. In production per capita, the country is in fourth place in Eastern Europe.\n\nBulgaria has the Kozloduy Nuclear Power Plant with six reactors, out of which only two are online (four reactors were taken off-line in 2004 and 2007), with a combined capacity of 3,760 MW and covering 36% of country's energy demand.\n\nThermal power plants are also of high importance with most of the capacity concentrated in the Maritsa Iztok Complex. The largest plants are:\n\nThere is a €1.4 billion project for an additional 670 MW for the latter and €900 million for additional 600 MW for \"Maritsa Iztok 3\".\n\nOther minor TPPs are: \"Republika\" in Pernik - 180 MW, \"Sofia\"-130 MW, \"Sofia Iztok\"-120 MW, \"Plovdiv\"-60 MW, \"Pleven\"-40 MW, \"Pernik\"-30 MW, \"Sliven\"-30 MW and others.\n\nIn November 2014 the Maritsa Iztok 2 lignite-fired power station was ranked as the industrial facility that is causing the highest damage costs to health and the environment in Bulgaria and the entire European Union by the European Environment Agency.\n\nDue to the limited hydro-potential of the country (excluding the Danube), the importance of hydro power is not so big. There are currently 87 hydro power plants with a combined capacity of 1,980 MW, most of them being located in the southern and south-western mountainous parts of Bulgaria. The largest hydro cascades are: \"Belmeken-Sestrimo\"-700 MW, \"Dospat-Vacha\"-670 MW, \"Batashki Vodnosilov Pat\"-220 MW. Important HPPs on the Arda river are: \"Kardzhali\"-106 MW; \"Ivailovgrad\" - 104 MW and \"Studen Kladenets\" - 60 MW. There is €65 million project for their modernization.\n\nThree major hydroelectric power plants are under construction: \"Gorna Arda\" - 160 MW; \"Sreden Iskar\" – 93 MW, €60 million; \"Tsankov Kamak\" – 90 MW, €220 million.\n\nLarge-scale prospects for wind energy development have spurred the construction of numerous wind farms, making Bulgaria one of the fastest-growing wind energy producers in the world. However, the country has added very little new wind energy capacity since 2012, as evidenced by the EWEA statistical data below.\n\nSeveral major energy transportation routes are to be passed through Bulgaria. The Burgas-Alexandroupoli pipeline and the Burgas-Vlore pipeline are oil transportation projects through Bulgaria to bypass Turkish straits in transportation of Russian and Caspian oil from the Black Sea to the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nBulgaria is a transit country for Russian natural gas to Turkey, Greece and Macedonia. Natural gas transit projects through Bulgaria are the South Stream pipeline and the Nabucco pipeline. The South Stream pipeline, cancelled as of 2014, would have transported Russian natural across the Black Sea from the Russian coast of Beregoyava to Burgas from where it would have continued to the north-west to Central Europe and to the south-west to Greece and Italy. The Nabucco pipeline would transport Caspian and Middle East gas through Turkey, Bulgaria, Romania, Hungary and Austria to Central Europe.\n"}
{"id": "36257278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36257278", "title": "Feather Mountain", "text": "Feather Mountain\n\nFeather Mountain () is one of many important mythological mountains in Chinese mythology, particularly associated with the Great Flood. According to the mythological studies of Lihui Yang, Gun was executed on the \"outskirts\" of Feather Mountain by Zhu Rong, either for stealing the xirang or for failing to control the flood waters. According to K. C. Wu, Emperor Shun exiled Gun to Feather Mountain for lèse-majesté, but that Gun was not executed; and, rather, that such accounts result from misunderstanding the meanings associated with the ancient Chinese character \"jí\" (殛), which appears in certain source works.\n\nAnthony Christie relays the following three mythic story versions: that on Feather Mountain, Gun was either killed by Zhu Rong, torn into pieces by tortoises and owls, or else that his lifeless-seeming body lay there for three years before being slashed open at the belly with the Wu sword, after which his son Yu emerged as a winged dragon and Gun himself metamorphosed into a yellow bear.\n\n"}
{"id": "41613635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41613635", "title": "Ferguson landslide", "text": "Ferguson landslide\n\nThe Ferguson landslide, also commonly called the Ferguson Slide, is an active landslide in the Merced River canyon in the U.S. state of California which in 2006 blocked a primary access road to Yosemite National Park. The slide still blocked the original road as of early 2018, although temporary bridges allow one-way traffic around the slide and into the park. The slide is a natural phenomenon, and resulted from the erosion dynamics of the river valley.\n\nThe slide began on April 29, 2006, and initially the highway remained open, with active monitoring and occasional temporary closures. By May 28, the road was closed permanently, stopping access to the park from Mariposa and severely impacting the local economy. Many park employees reside in Mariposa, and for several months a two-hour trip (one way) was required to get to work in the park. Revenue via the hospitality market dropped extensively, which included wages, profits to small business owners, and county government income from occupancy taxes. A State of Emergency was declared in June 2006 for Mariposa County.\nInitially two temporary bridges were built in August 2006. While this detour alleviated a significant portion of the economic impact to the area, vehicles over 28 feet could not use it. In June 2008, new temporary bridges which could accommodate longer vehicles were constructed. The detour via the bridges is one-way, controlled by traffic lights. At the height of the tourist season, this has sometimes resulted in significant delays.\n\nThe temporary bridges access a road grade, on the north side of the river, which is a vestige of the Yosemite Valley Railroad.\n\nRepair of the highway was on permanent hold due to the encroachment of an endangered species into the slide area. In 2012, Assemblymember Kristin Olsen authored legislation that would allow the California Department of Fish and Game to do an initial take of the Limestone Salamander and place it in an Ecological Reserve. The legislation paved the way to restoring this important access route to Yosemite. Known officially as Assembly Bill No. 1973, it passed both houses of the California State Legislature and was signed into law by Governor Jerry Brown on July 13, 2012. After considering the option of a tunnel, CalTrans settled on a rock shed design in 2014.\n\nThe Ferguson Project located in the Merced River Canyon on Highway 140 into Yosemite National Park will result in the longest structure of its kind in State of California and only the second to be completed in the State.\nThe Ferguson Project Team was formed in 2008 to work toward developing the Ferguson Project that will restore full access through the Merced River Canyon in Mariposa County, California. After completion of all necessary environmental studies, and receiving feedback from local government agencies, the U.S. Forest Service, the U.S. Department of Interior, the public and other stakeholders, the Ferguson Project team completed the environmental document and project report in early 2014. The team recommended that the Rock Shed Alternative move forward in final design. The project construction will be in two distinct construction projects.\nPhase 1: Will remove the existing talus material and install cable drapery to minimize additional rock fall. Work will begin in spring 2015.\nPhase 2: Will construct a 750-foot rockshed structure on the same alignment.\nThroughout the duration of the both phase 1 and phase 2 Highway 140 is expected to stay open – there are no closures scheduled. The project is expected to be completed by summer 2020.\n\n"}
{"id": "1973309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973309", "title": "Hydroxyl tagging velocimetry", "text": "Hydroxyl tagging velocimetry\n\nHydroxyl tagging velocimetry (HTV) is a velocimetry method used in humid air flows. The\nmethod is often used in high-speed combusting flows because the high velocity and temperature\naccentuate its advantages over similar methods. HTV uses a laser (often an argon-fluoride\nexcimer laser operating at ~193 nm) to dissociate the water in the flow into H + OH. Before entering the flow optics are\nused to create a grid of laser beams. The water in the flow is dissociated only where beams of\nsufficient energy pass through the flow, thus creating a grid in the flow where the\nconcentrations of hydroxyl (OH) are higher than in the surrounding flow. Another laser beam (at either ~248 nm or ~308 nm) in\nthe form of a sheet is also passed through the flow in the same plane as the grid. This laser\nbeam is tuned to a wavelength that causes the hydroxyl molecules to fluoresce in the UV spectrum. The fluorescence is then captured by a charge-coupled device (CCD) camera. Using\nelectronic timing methods the picture of the grid can be captured at nearly the same instant\nthat the grid is created.\n\nBy delaying the pulse of the fluorescence laser and the camera shot an image of the grid that\nhas now displaced downstream can be captured. Computer programs are then used to compare the\ntwo images and determine the displacement of the grid. By dividing the displacement by the known\ntime delay the two dimensional velocity field (in the plane of the grid) can be determined.\n\nOther Molecular tagging velocimetry (MTV) methods have used ozone (O3), excited oxygen and nitric oxide as the tag instead of hydroxyl. In the case of ozone the method is known as Ozone tagging velocimetry or OTV. OTV has been developed and tested in many room air temperature applications with very accurate test results. OTV consists of an initial \"write\" step, where a 193-nm pulsed excimer laser creates ozone grid lines via oxygen (O2) UV absorption, and a subsequent \"read\" step, where a 248-nm excimer laser photodissociates the formed O3 and fluoresces the vibrationally excited O2 product thus revealing the grid lines' displacement.\n\n"}
{"id": "1968588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1968588", "title": "Hypervelocity", "text": "Hypervelocity\n\nHypervelocity is very high velocity, approximately over 3,000 meters per second (6,700 mph, 11,000 km/h, 10,000 ft/s, or Mach 8.8). In particular, hypervelocity is velocity so high that the strength of materials upon impact is very small compared to inertial stresses. Thus, even metals behave like fluids under hypervelocity impact. Extreme hypervelocity results in vaporization of the impactor and target. For structural metals, hypervelocity is generally considered to be over 2,500 m/s (5,600 mph, 9,000 km/h, 8,200 ft/s, or Mach 7.3). Meteorite craters are also examples of hypervelocity impacts.\n\n\"Hypervelocity\" refers to velocities in the range from a few kilometers per second to some tens of kilometers per second. This is especially relevant in the field of space exploration and military use of space, where hypervelocity impacts (e.g. by space debris or an attacking projectile) can result in anything from minor component degradation to the complete destruction of a spacecraft or missile. The impactor, as well as the surface it hits, can undergo temporary liquefaction. The impact process can generate plasma discharges, which can interfere with spacecraft electronics.\n\nHypervelocity usually occurs during meteor showers and deep space reentries, as carried out during the Zond, Apollo and Luna programs. Given the intrinsic unpredictability of the timing and trajectories of meteors, space capsules are prime data gathering opportunities for the study of thermal protection materials at hypervelocity (in this context, hypervelocity is defined as greater than escape velocity). Given the rarity of such observation opportunities since the 1970s, the Genesis and Stardust Sample Return Capsule (SRC) reentries as well as the recent Hayabusa SRC reentry have spawned observation campaigns, most notably at NASA Ames Research Center.\n\nHypervelocity collisions can be studied by examining the results of naturally occurring collisions (between micrometeorites and spacecraft, or between meteorites and planetary bodies), or they may be performed in laboratories. Currently the primary tool for laboratory experiments is a light-gas gun, but some experiments have used linear motors to accelerate projectiles to hypervelocity. The properties of metals under hypervelocity have been integrated with weapons, such as explosively formed penetrator. The vaporization upon impact and liquefaction of surfaces allow metal projectiles formed under hypervelocity forces to penetrate vehicle armor better than conventional bullets.\n\nNASA studies the effects of simulated orbital debris at the White Sands Test Facility Remote Hypervelocity Test Laboratory (RHTL). Objects smaller than a softball cannot be detected on radar. This has prompted spacecraft designers to develop shields to protect spacecraft from unavoidable collisions. At RHTL, micrometeoroid and orbital debris (MMOD) impacts are simulated on spacecraft components and shields allowing designers to test threats posed by the growing orbital debris environment and evolve shield technology to stay one step ahead. At RHTL, four two-stage light-gas guns propel 0.05 mm to 22.2 mm diameter projectiles to velocities as fast as 8.5 km/s.\n\nAccording to the United States Army, \"hypervelocity\" can also refer to the muzzle velocity of a weapon system, with the exact definition dependent upon the weapon in question. When discussing small arms a muzzle velocity of 5,000 ft/s (1524 m/s) or greater is considered hypervelocity, while for tank cannons the muzzle velocity must meet or exceed 3,350 ft/s (1021.08 m/s) to be considered hypervelocity, and the threshold for artillery cannons is 3,500 ft/s (1066.8 m/s).\n\n"}
{"id": "51018286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51018286", "title": "Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy", "text": "Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy\n\nIndian Institute of Petroleum and Energy (IIPE), is a Petroleum University\nestablished in 2016 at Visakhapatnam in the state of Andhra Pradesh. IIPE is offering undergraduate courses in Petroleum and Chemical Engineering. Recently the Parliament has passed Indian Institute of Petroleum and Energy Bill, 2017 which has declared the institute as an institution of National Importance.\n\nThe university has been allotted 210 acres of land in Anakapalli Village, Vishakhapatnam. IIPE has collaborated with oil majors like HPCL, IOCL, ONGC, GAIL, OIL, OIDB, BPCL, and the Ministry of Industry and Commerce and with an academic mentorship from IIT-Kharagpur till 2019.\n\nThe Minister of State (I/C) for Petroleum & Natural Gas, Shri Dharmendra Pradhan launched the website of Indian Institute of Petroleum & Energy (IIPE), Visakhapatnam on 27/05/2016\n\nThe first batch of Petroleum and Chemical Engineering commenced from the first week of August 2016. As of now the maximum intake capacity for each course is 50 seats.\n\nB.Tech (Petroleum Engineering)\n\nPetroleum engineering is the branch of engineering with primary focus on exploration and production of Oil & Gas. The objective of the programme is to prepare graduates for professional practice in industry in the field of petroleum engineering technology with emphasis on upstream activities that encompass exploration, reservoir and production. The programme intends to create technical professionals who are fit to take on engineering responsibilities across the entire value-chain in the Oil & Gas Industry a specialization that has seen growing demand in the recent years. The programme is designed to develop skills and understanding in the fundamental aspects of petroleum engineering and apply best global practices in the Oil & Gas sector fields of natural gas processing, gas transportation and gas utilization techniques.\n\nB.Tech (Chemical Engineering)\n\nThe programme aims to develop competent Chemical Engineers with specific emphasis on industry centric talent requirements. The programme plans to expose the students to the fundamentals of Chemical Engineering and instill innovative thinking to solve the problems related to energy, environment, etc. This programme intends to create professionals who can fit in well in a dynamic sector where they come across various technological advancements. During the course, emphasis will be laid to foster student's ability to deal with complex problems in multidisciplinary situations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19989415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19989415", "title": "Jermaghbyur Geothermal Power Plant", "text": "Jermaghbyur Geothermal Power Plant\n\nThe Jermaghbyur Geothermal Power Plant will be Armenia's largest geothermal power plant having an installed electric capacity of 150 MW. It will be situated in Syunik Province of Armenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "50402709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50402709", "title": "La Compagnie des Lampes", "text": "La Compagnie des Lampes\n\nLa Compagnie des Lampes (\"The Lamp Company\") was the name of several French companies is the area of electrical products.\n\nThe original \"Compagnie des Lampes\" was set up at Ivry-sur-Seine in 1888. The plant was subsequently attached to the CGE (Compagnie Générale d'Electricité) on its acquisition in 1898. The plant is classified as a historical monument.\n\nIn 1915, the plant was the second to start manufacturing \"TM\" triodes (\"Télégraphie Militaire\") in France, under their \"Métal\" brand (the first was E.C.&A. Grammont (Lyon) under their \"Radio Fotos\" brand). Later they made tubes for domestic AC transformer heating such as the BW604 and BW1010 under their \"Métal-Secteur\" brand.\n\nFounded in 1911 by Paul Blavier, \"La Compagnie des Lampes\" was a light bulb factory workshop, located in Saint-Pierre-Montlimart, near Cholet. The company changed its name in 1918 to become \"Manufacture de lampes à incandescence, la Française\". It was associated with the Thomson group in the 1950s.\n\nIn 1921 CFTH (Compagnie Française Thomson-Houston) and CGE (Compagnie Générale d'Electricité) jointly created a new \"Compagnie des Lampes\". It later became a major player in the field of lighting in France, notably through its brand MAZDA.\n\nBetween 1924 and 1939, it was part of the Phoebus cartel, an oligopoly that dominated the market for light bulbs while putting in place an agreement on the principle of planned obsolescence for their products.\n\nBesides light bulbs (and like British \"Ediswan\"), CdL (1921) also made vacuum tubes under the \"Mazda\" brand, for example 6H8G (1947), 3T100A1 (1949), E1 (1950); since 1953 as \"LAMPE MAZDA\": 2G21 (1953), 927 (1954), EL183 (1959), EF816 (1962).\n\nMany of their tubes were also available from \"Compagnie Industrielle Française des Tubes Electroniques\" (CIFTE) under their \"Mazda-Belvu\" brand (originating from \"Societé Radio Belvu\", which sold Grammont's \"Fotos\" tubes).\n"}
{"id": "6095287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6095287", "title": "Lake Burdur", "text": "Lake Burdur\n\nLake Burdur () is a large saline lake of tectonic origin, positioned at the frontier between Burdur and Isparta provinces, in southwestern Turkey. It is located at around . It has an area of 250 km and maximum depth variously reported at between 50 and 110 m. Water level in the lake fluctuates. Lake Burdur is also an important wetland site for many bird species and is designated a Ramsar site.\n\nLake Burdur is among the largest and deepest lakes of Turkey, located at the Lake District Region in south-western Anatolia (37°43′351′′ N, 30°10′878′′ E), within a closed basin. Catchment area is 6150 km. The average depth is 40 m and maximum depth 68 m. Maximum surface area is 140 km at 854 m elevation. It is salty and highly alkaline (pH 9.5) and it never freezes.\n\nLake Burdur is one of the deepest lakes of Turkey. The aquatic plants are not observed in the lake because of the amount of sodium sulphate and chlorine content. Since the lake does not freeze in winter, it serves as a winter refuge for the birds. The ecosystem of the lake is threatened by the presence of an industrial complex and an airport close to the northern shore. The decrease of water levels (because of construction of upstream dams and unknown causes), increasing of sedimentation (from catchment erosion), organic pollution (from food processing and Burdur City raw sewage waste) and inorganic effluent (from a sulphur mine) represent long-term threats to the integrity of the lake. The water level has decreased from 1975 to 2002 due to construction of dams and ponds in catchment basin, resulting in the loss of 27% of the lake area during the period of 27 years. Nowadays the estimated lake area ranges between 140 km or 153 km.\n\nLake Burdur has great ornithological importance harbouring numerous wintering bird species. It is the most important wintering site in the world for the white-headed duck, a globally threatened species. It has also served habitats to 10 other internationally important waterfowl species. Lake Burdur has been a Ramsar Site since 1993 and Wildlife Reserve since 1994. \"Aphanius anatoliae sureyanus\" (the only fish species) and \"A. burduricus\" are endemic species of the lake.\n\nThe formation of the lake began 5 million years ago as a tectonic depression.(Burdur area is in first grade earthquake zone)\nIt is known that the lake maintained fresh water character for long period of time.\nThe altitude in Plio-pleistocene period was 100 m higher, so the lake extended in NE–SW direction. In late Pleistocene period salinization and shrinking of the lake began, which is a process in progress today. Since 1975 an altitude change of −10 m and 27% volume loss has been recorded. The main reasons for this figures are dams and ponds constructed on main sources of the lake, like Bozcay stream, the severe drought between 1988 and 1995 and especially extensive use of aquifers by local farmers.\n\n"}
{"id": "59168336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59168336", "title": "Lake metabolism", "text": "Lake metabolism\n\nLake metabolism represents a lake ecosystem's balance between carbon fixation (gross primary production) and biological carbon oxidation (ecosystem respiration). Lake metabolism includes the carbon fixation and oxidation from all organism within the lake, from bacteria to fishes. \n\nEstimates of lake metabolism typically rely on the measurement of dissolved oxygen or carbon dioxide. Oxygen is produced and carbon dioxide consumed through photosynthesis and oxygen is consumed and carbon dioxide produced through respiration. \n\nPhotosynthesis: formula_1\n\nRespiration: formula_2\n\nPhotosynthesis and oxygen production only occurs in the presence of light, while the consumption of oxygen via respiration occurs in both the presence and absence of light. Lake metabolism terms include: \n\n\nThe free-water dissolved oxygen technique for estimating lake metabolism was first introduced in the 1950's, but was not widely used until the advancement of automated sensor technology. Automated sensor technology enables measurement of dissolved oxygen during periods that are hard to measure manually such as during storms. \n\nSimilar to the free-water dissolved oxygen technique, this method measures diel dissolved gas that is produced and consumed from photosynthesis and respiration. \n\nC can be used along with light and dark bottles to estimate depth-specific pelagic metabolism, or whole-lake metabolism when used in conjunction with sediment chambers. There are \"container effects\" that are a common criticism to using this method. \n\nThis method uses spiked HO and light bottles to measure the amount of O produced from photosynthesis. \n\nMeasuring all the inputs and outputs of carbon to and from a lake can be used to estimate net ecosystem production. \n\nThe free-water measurement techniques require mathematical models to estimate lake metabolism metrics from dissolved gas measurements. These models range in complexity from simple algebraic models to depth-integrated modeling using more advanced statistical techniques. \n\n"}
{"id": "3238386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238386", "title": "Landscape planning", "text": "Landscape planning\n\nLandscape planning is a branch of landscape architecture. According to Erv Zube (1931–2002) landscape planning is defined as an activity concerned with developing landscaping amongst competing land uses while protecting natural processes and significant cultural and natural resources. Park systems and greenways of the type designed by Frederick Law Olmsted are key examples of landscape planning. Landscape designers tend to work for clients who wish to commission construction work. Landscape planners analyze broad issues as well as project characteristics which constrain design projects.\n\nLandscape planners may work on projects which are of broad geographical scope, concern many land uses or many clients or are implemented over a long period of time. As an example, the damage caused by unplanned mineral extraction was one of the early reasons for a public demand for landscape planning.\n\nIn India, the history of landscape planning can be traced to the Vedas and to the Vaastu Shastras. These ancient texts set forth principles for planning settlements, temples and other structures in relation to the natural landscape. Relationships with mountains (the home of the gods) and with rivers (regarded as goddesses) were of particular importance. A square form represented the earth and a circular form represented heaven. A mandala explained the relationship between heaven and earth. Square plans, for both secular and religious structures, were set out with their sides facing north, south, east and west. The earliest surviving stone temple set out in this way is Sanchi.\n\nIn China, landscape planning originated with Feng Shui, which is translated into English as 'wind and water' and is used to describe a set of general principles for the planning of development in relation to the natural landscape. The aim was to find the most auspicious environment possible, one sited in harmony with natural phenomena and the physical and psychological needs of man.\n\nIn Europe, the history of landscape planning can be traced to the work of Vitruvius. In discussing the planning of towns, he wrote about site planning with regard to microclimate, about the planning of streets and about the role of metaphor in design. Vitruvius' theories were revived during the renaissance and came to influence the planning of towns throughout Europe and the Americas. Alberti wrote on the need for town squares for markets and specific implementations to make most use of the space. In North Europe this developed into the idea that residential squares should planned around green spaces. The first space of this type was the Place des Vosges. Residential squares were also made in Britain and their planning developed into the idea of incorporating public open space (public parks within towns). Frederick Law Olmsted gave momentum to this idea with his proposal for a park systems in Boston - the famous Emerald Necklace. Patrick Abercrombie took up this idea and incorporated it in his great 1943-4 Open Space Plan for the County of London.\n\nIn the United States, landscape architects provide landscape planning services focused on the natural environment along with urban planners. But, unlike Canada and Europe, the US does not have a national land use planning system. Frederick Law Olmsted and Ian McHarg are two influential American landscape architects that also worked as planners. McHarg's work on overlay landscape planning contributed to the development of GIS and to the foundation of ESRI by Jack Dangermond.\n\nThe principles of landscape planning are now incorporated in various types of legislation and policy documents. In America, the National Environmental Policy Act was influenced by the work of Ian McHarg on Environmental impact assessment. In Germany, the Federal Nature Conservation Act requires the preparation of landscape plans. For the Europe Union as a whole, the European Landscape Convention has wide-ranging implications for the design and planning of relationships between development and the landscape. In Asia, major development projects are taking place and illustrating the need for good landscape planning. The Three Gorges Dam, for example, will have extensive impacts on the landscape. They have been planned to a degree but future monitoring of the project is likely to show that better landscape planning and design would have been possible.\n\nLandscape planners are concerned with the 'health' of the landscape, just as doctors are concerned with bodily health. This analogy can be taken further. Medical doctors advise both on the health of individuals and on matters of public health. When individuals take actions injurious to their own health this is regarded as a private matter. But if they take actions injurious to public health, these actions are properly regulated by law. The collective landscape is a public good which should be protected and enhanced by legislation and public administration. If, for example, mineral extraction has a damaging impact on the landscape, this is a proper field for intervention. Negative impacts on the landscape could include visual impacts, ecological impacts, hydrological impacts and recreational impacts. As well as protecting existing public goods, societies are responsible for the creation of new public goods. This can be done by positive landscape planning. There are, for example, many former mineral workings (e.g. the Norfolk Broads) which have become important public goods. Medical doctors are trained in anatomy, physiology, biochemistry etc. before becoming practitioners. Landscape doctors are trained in geomorphology, hydrology, ecology etc. before becoming practitioners in design and planning. When qualified, they can specialize in areas of landscape planning:\n\n\nIn each case, the aim is to take a specialist land use and make recommendations for what can be done to enhance its implact on the stock of environmental goods.\n\nThe conventional planning process is a linear progression of activities. The common steps are:\n\n\nLandscape planning not always means an ecological planning method, for that it must be considered that \"planning is a process that uses the scientific and technical information for considering and reaching consensus on a range of choices. Ecology is the study of the relationship of all living things, including people, to their biological and physical environments. Ecological planning then may be defined as the use of biophysical and sociocultural information to suggest opportunities and constraints for decision making about the use of landscape\". (Steiner, 1991)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39541633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39541633", "title": "Large low-shear-velocity provinces", "text": "Large low-shear-velocity provinces\n\nLarge low-shear-velocity provinces, LLSVPs, also called LLVPs or superplumes, are characteristic structures of parts of the lowermost mantle (the region surrounding the outer core) of the Earth. These provinces are characterized by slow shear wave velocities and were discovered by seismic tomography of the deep Earth. There are two main provinces: the African LLSVP and the Pacific LLSVP. Both extend laterally for thousands of kilometers and possibly up to 1000 km vertically from the core-mantle boundary. The Pacific LLSVP has specific dimensions of 3000 km across and 300 m higher than the surrounding ocean-floor, and is situated over four hotspots that suggest multiple mantle plumes underneath. These zones represent around 8% of the volume of the mantle (6% of the Earth). Other names for LLSVPs include \"superwells\", \"thermo-chemical piles\", or \"hidden reservoirs\". Some of these names, however, are more interpretive of their geodynamical or geochemical effects, while many questions remain about their nature.\nLLSVPs were discovered in full mantle seismic tomographic models of shear velocity as slow features in the lowermost mantle beneath Africa and the Pacific. The boundaries of these features appear fairly consistent across models when applying objective k-means clustering. The global spherical harmonic degree two structure is strong and aligns with its smallest moments of inertia along with the two LLSVPs. This means, by using shear wave velocities, the established locations of the LLSVPs are not only verified, a stable pattern for mantle convection emerges. This stable configuration is responsible for the geometry of plate motions at the surface due as well as mantle convection. Another name for the degree two structure, a roughly 200 km thick layer of the lower mantle directly above the core–mantle boundary (CMB), is the D″ (\"D double-prime\" or \"D prime prime\"). The LLSVPs lie around the equator, but mostly on the southern hemisphere. Global tomography models inherently result in smooth features; local waveform modeling of body waves, however, has shown that the LLSVPs have sharp boundaries.\nThe sharpness of the boundaries makes it difficult to explain the features by temperature alone; the LLSVPs need to be compositionally distinct to explain the velocity jump.\nUltra low velocity zones (ULVZ) at smaller scales have been discovered mainly at the edges of these LLSVPs.\n\nBy using the solid Earth tide, the density of these regions has been determined. The bottom two thirds are 0.5% denser than the bulk of the mantle. However tidal tomography cannot say exactly how the excess mass is distributed. The overdensity may be due to primordial material or subducted ocean slabs.\n\nThe current leading hypothesis for the LLSVPs is the accumulation of subducted oceanic slabs. This corresponds with the locations of known slab graveyards surrounding the Pacific LLSVP. These graveyards are thought to be the reason for the high velocity zone anomalies surrounding the Pacific LLSVP and are thought to have formed by subduction zones that were around long before the dispersion—some 750 million years ago—of the supercontinent Rodinia. Aided by the phase transformation, the temperature would partially melt the slabs, to form a dense heavy melt that pools and forms the ultra low velocity zone (ULVZ) structures at the bottom of the core-mantle boundary closer to the LLSVP than the slab graveyards. The rest of the material is then carried upwards due to chemical buoyancy and contributes to the high levels of basalt found at the mid-ocean ridge. The resulting motion forms small clusters of small plumes right above the core-mantle boundary that combine to form larger plumes and then contribute to superplumes. The Pacific and African LLSVP, in this scenario, are originally created by a discharge of heat from the core (4000 K) to the much colder mantle (2000 K), the recycled lithosphere is only fuel that helps drive the superplume convection. Since it would be difficult for the Earth's core to maintain this high heat by itself, it gives support for the existence of radiogenic nuclides in the core, as well as the indication that if fertile subducted lithosphere stops subducting in locations preferable for superplume consumption, it will mark the demise of that superplume.\n\nGeodynamic mantle convection models have included compositional distinctive material. The material tends to get swept up in ridges or piles. When including realistic past plate motions into the modeling, the material gets swept up in locations that are remarkably similar to the present day location of the LLSVPs. These locations also correspond with known slab graveyard locations mentioned in the origin section. These types of models, as well as the observation that the degree two structure of the LLSVPs is orthogonal to the path of true polar wander, suggest these mantle structures have been stable over large amounts of time. This geometrical relationship is also consistent with the position of the supercontinent Pangaea, and the formation of the current geoid pattern due to continental break-up from the superswell below.\nHowever, the heat from the core is not enough to sustain the energy needed to fuel the superplume(s) located at the LLSVPs. There is a phase transition from perovskite to post-perovskite from the down welling slab(s) that causes an exothermic reaction. This exothermic reaction helps to heat the LLSVP, but it is not sufficient enough to account for the total energy needed to sustain it. So it is hypothesized that the material from the slab graveyard can become extremely dense and form large pools of melt concentrate enriched in uranium, thorium, and potassium. These concentrated radiogenic elements are thought to provide the high temperatures needed. So, the appearance and disappearance of slab graveyards predicts the birth and death of an LLSVP, potentially changing the dynamics of all plate tectonics.\n\n"}
{"id": "5299993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5299993", "title": "Life Extension: A Practical Scientific Approach", "text": "Life Extension: A Practical Scientific Approach\n\nLife Extension: A Practical Scientific Approach is a 1982 book () by Durk Pearson and Sandy Shaw that popularized the life extension and smart drug movements.\nThe book discussed free radicals and the idea that they cause aging, and how antioxidants were said to partially prevent the damage they do. The book suggests causes of aging and ways to slow them, with material on improving health and various aspects of the quality of life.\n\nOne notable feature of the book was several full-page pictures of its male and female authors, Durk Pearson and Sandy Shaw, striking bodybuilding poses and showing off some impressive muscles for \"sedentary research scientists,\" which they claimed was due to the \"growth hormone releasers\" they took daily.\nMedical health experts have dismissed Pearson and Shaw's life-extension formula as dangerous. The American Council on Science and Health reported that the risks of their formula included headaches, intestinal disorders and kidney damage. \n\nIn the 1992 documentary \"Never Say Die: The Pursuit of Eternal Youth\", Antony Thomas interviewed Pearson and Shaw, and criticised the anti-aging movement as misguided. A review in \"JAMA: The Journal of the American Medical Association\" by researchers with the Harvard School of Public Health advised that “Some of the \"health\" advice contained in this book would be humorous if it was not so dangerous” and that “Potential readers of this ridiculous book would be wiser to take only the antacids—as we felt the urge to do after the realization that we had spent $22.50 on an unscientific, impractical, and potentially dangerous health fraud that literally made us ill.” \n\nStephen Barrett of Quackwatch wrote that the advice in the book was impractical and unscientific. For example the authors recommended more than thirty supplements and prescription drugs and for the subject to take a medical examination with more than fifty laboratory tests. The authors made inaccurate statements about vitamin supplements and their \"presentation of experimental data is biased and uncritical.\"\n\nNutritionist Kurt Butler has described the book as a hoax and has written:\n\nPearson and Shaw denigrate exercise and claim that all its benefits can be had by taking the pills and remaining sedentary. Many experts believe that following their advice is more likely to accelerate aging rather than retard it. This is because the so-called antioxidants in their regimen are actually redox agents that act as pro-oxidants when taken in the doses the authors recommend, and because exercise is the best proven anti-aging tool available to us. \n\nBiogerontologist Dr. Roy Walford wrote, \"gerontology has always been the happy hunting ground for faddists, charlatans, pseudoscientific fringe characters, and just misinformed enthusiasts with 'ready cures' for aging. ... Pearson and Shaw are among this long list of enthusiasts. ... Most of the Pearson/Shaw book relies on this lower-order category of evidence, and upon the testimonial posturing of Pearson and Shaw themselves.\" In a discussion group posting, biogerontologist Dr. Steve Harris, MD criticizes the book, offering an example of one the authors' \"screwups:\"\n"}
{"id": "46383774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46383774", "title": "List of Madonna records and achievements", "text": "List of Madonna records and achievements\n\nAmerican singer Madonna, throughout her career, spanning three decades, has obtained a remarkable series of statistical achievements, setting and breaking several world records with her participation in entrepreneurial activities, of acting and her performance in the musical scene for her videos, singles, albums, and tours.\n\nHer first appearance in the \"Guinness Book of World Records\" was in 1986 with her third studio album, \"True Blue\". Since then, she has earned multiple appearances, some 20 at least in February 2012, including her insigne record title as the top-selling female recording artist of all time. Madonna's commerciality has achieved scrutiny studies and analysis from different point of view in the academia world or by marketers, through her marketing strategies, controversies and reinvention, surpassing to others new or contemporary artists. In popular culture, many international artists have been called \"Madonna\", many times, by their impact and success in their respective countries or genres. Also, her presence in popular culture, has been led to create world records about Madonna. Dubbed as the most successful and most influential female artist of all time,\n\nWhen she reached number one with \"Music\" in 2000 at Billboard Hot 100, it made Madonna the second artist to achieve number one hits on the Hot 100 in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. Also, when she released \"Who's That Girl\" in 1987 it became Madonna's sixth number-one single in the United States, making her the first artist to accumulate six number-one singles in the 1980s, and the first female performer to get that many number-ones as a solo act. In 2012, with \"Give Me All Your Luvin'\" she became the second female with highest number of \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles by female artists, only behind Aretha Franklin. The song is her 56th appearance on the chart. In 1991, with \"Rescue Me\" when it debuted at No. 15 on the March 2, 1991 Hot 100 chart, it marked the highest-ever bow for a single by a woman. Further, it was —at the time— one of only four titles to debut in the top 20. Madonna is the third oldest female to place a number one at the Billboard Hot 100. The single \"Music\" reached the number-one spot when Madonna was forty-two years one month old (September 2000). She holds the record with 38 singles within the Top 10, most for any artist.\n\nShe has 46 number-one songs in the chart —the most for any artist. Also, is the only active artist to chart continuously since 1982, spanning four decades. \"Billboard\" said: \"comparing her chart champs by decade, Madonna scored nine Dance/Club Songs No. 1s in the '80s and 13 in the '90s. Since 2000, she has almost doubled her total, adding 18 No. 1s in that span\". In 2012, when she release \"Girl Gone Wild\", became her 42nd No. 1 on the record chart, \"Billboard\" said that she has the quickest span of back-to-back No. 1s. Also, the magazine declared that \"essentially, if Madonna releases a single and it charts on Dance/Club Play Songs, it's a safe bet to assume it'll go to No. 1. Since 2000, she's placed 26 hits on the survey. Of those, all but six have gone all the way to No. 1. Also, Madonna is the only artist in history to achieve seven top-ten hits from one album (\"American Life\") and the only artist ever to achieve seven consecutive number-one hits on this chart twice.\n\n\"Give Me All Your Luvin'\" set a record chart, when it debuted at 24 in the Dance/Club Play Songs chart and rose to 9 the next week, having the fastest rising to the top 10 for a song ever \"Hung Up\" became the most successful dance song of the 2000s in the United States, by topping the Dance/Club Play Songs Decade-end tally and \"Music\" became the second most-successful dance song of decade, reaching number two on the record chart. Furthermore, \"Music\" was also the longest-running number one song on Dance/Club Play Songs in the 2000s, with a longevity of five weeks at number one.\n\nShe is the second female artist with most number ones albums, with 8, behind only Barbra Streisand, who has 10 number one albums. Her other achievements on the record chart, tied with Beyoncé as the female artist with most consecutive number-one albums. Also, in 1984 Madonna was the first female to sell over 5 million albums in the US in a single year with \"Like a Virgin\". Madonna is the artist with most top 10 albums on the Billboard 200, with 21 (20 in 2012, with \"MDNA\") George Strait places second with 17 top 10s, followed by Mariah Carey (16). Also, she is the female artist with most number-two albums on Billboard's Top 200 Albums, with six, tied with The Beatles and behind Frank Sinatra's seven\n\nHer albums \"The Immaculate Collection\", \"Like a Virgin\" and \"True Blue\" are among the top 100 certified albums according to the RIAA, with \"The Immaculate Collection\" and \"Like a Virgin\" becoming in one of the best-selling albums in United States with a diamond status. As of 2015, she is the eighth artist with most number-one albums. However, she has a record for the biggest second week sales drop in history in Nielsen SoundScan era with her twelfth studio album, \"MDNA\".\n\nWhen she released \"Open Your Heart\" in Australia, it reached a peak of number 16, breaking a run of nine consecutive top ten singles for Madonna in that country. She is tied with Australian singer Kylie Minogue, having 10 number one singles.\nShe have debuted her albums at number one for nine occasions, with \"Rebel Heart\" her last album, it became Madonna's 19th week atop the chart, ranking her at number 24 on the list of artists with most accumulated weeks at the top. She has 11 number one albums, tied with U2.\n\nShe has a total of 25 #1 singles in Canada — the most for any artist in spanning four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. Only two of these number one singles belong to Canadian Hot 100 and the rest of Canadian RPM singles chart. Her 2000 single \"Music\" was the last number one hit on the Canadian RPM singles chart. Also, she has sixty-eight Top 40, fifty-nine Top 20, fifty-one Top 10 and thirty-nine Top 5 singles. \"4 Minutes\" debuted at the top of the Canadian Contemporary Hit Radio chart. This marked the first time any song entered at the top of the CHR chart in BDS history. With \"Music and \"American Pie\" was the first time in Canadian chart history that an artist held the top two positions on the year-end musical charts.\n\nShe has to date, two album with diamond status in Canada with \"True Blue\" (in June 1987) and \"Like a Virgin\" (July 1992). Making her one of the few artists that have this certification. Also, she has 21 albums in the Top 5, with only 3 on the Top 20.\n\nMadonna had only three number one singles in France, but spanning three decades: 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. She has twenty-two Top 10 singles on the French Top 100 Singles charts and forty-nine Top 40, during four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s.\n\nShe has eight number one albums in France. Also, she has three albums with diamond status in France with \"True Blue\" (1,000,000), \"The Immaculate Collection\" (1,000,000) and \"Confessions on a Dancefloor\" (750,000). Also, she has ten albums number-two and three number-three albums. Generally, her albums always topped the Top 10 places in France.\n\nMadonna had four number one singles in Germany, but has fifty-eight Top 40, thirty-seven Top 20, twenty-five Top 10 and nineteen Top 5 singles.\n\nShe has one album in the top 40 best-selling albums ever in Germany, with \"Ray of Light\" sold 1.5 million units. She has number ones albums during four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s\n\nSource: Media Control Charts\n\nShe has a total of twenty-five number ones singles on Italian charts, spanning for three decades: 1980s, 1990s and 2000s. Also she has sixty-eight Top 40, sixty-five Top 20, fifty-six Top 10 and forty-five Top 5 singles.\n\nShe has a total of 15 number-one albums in Italy and 8 albums number two. Most of her albums have entered the top 5, with only two studio albums, topping the two.\n\nIn Japan, she was the only foreign artist with two albums into the best selling of the 1980 decade, with \"Like a Virgin\" (#33) and \"True Blue\" (#36).\n\nShe has a total of twenty-two singles number one and two number-two singles: \"Angel\", \"The Power of Good-Bye\", \"Don't Tell Me\", \"American Life\" and \"Give Me All Your Luvin'\".\n\nShe has ten number one albums in Spain, spanning during four decades: 1980s, 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. Also, she has twenty Top 5 albums and generally, her albums always topped the Top 20 in Spain.\n\nMadonna has 13 number one hits in United Kingdom, a record for a female recording artist, spanning her number one for three decades: 1980s, 1990s and 2000s\n\nIn 1985, Madonna became the first female artist in UK chart history to hold the top-two positions of the chart simultaneously, with \"Into the Groove\" topping number one and \"Holiday\" the second place By the end of 1985, Madonna achieved up another record with the song, becoming the first female artist to have eight UK top-ten singles in one calendar year. In 1987 when she published \"La Isla Bonita\", she became the female artist with the most number-one singles in the British chart history—a record that has since been maintained by Madonna to date Every single reached the UK Top 20 until 2008's \"Miles Away\". Also, Madonna simultaneously topped the albums and singles charts 4 times in her career, which is unmatched by any other female artist. In 2014, Official Charts Company compiled her Top 40 biggest selling singles, with \"Into the Groove\" in the top with 870,000 copies. Furthermore, Madonna had 71st Top 40 U.K. singles, the most for any female artist. Her others milestones including, eleven Top 2 singles, sixty Top 10 and forty four Top 20 singles.\n\nSource: Official Charts Company \n\nShe has 12 number-one albums with 9 studio albums —the most for any solo artist. Also, she has five number-two albums and twenty Top 5 albums, more than any other female artist. In 1986, \"True Blue\" opened at the top of the UK Albums Chart on July 12, 1986, making it the first album by American artist to debut at number one in British chart history. In 2012, with \"MDNA\" she became the first female in have an album in the number one during the 1980, 1990, 2000 and 2010. Also, Madonna and Kylie Minogue are the only artists ever to have a number-one album and a number-one single in three different decades.\n\nAccording to \"New Musical Express\" her albums \"The Immaculate Collection\" and \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" are one of the 50 fastest selling albums ever in United Kingdom, selling 340,000 and 217,610 respectively. Making in the female artist with most entries. Both Michael Jackson, Madonna had two of the best selling albums of the decade 1980 with \"True Blue\" (#9) and \"Like a Virgin\" (#17). Also during the 2000s, she figured with two albums in the top 100 with \"Music\" and \"Confessions on a Dance Floor\" and she topped the UK chart Christmas with \"The Immaculate Collection\", making the first to the decade 1990s and occupied the record number one during nine weeks.\n\nSource: Official Charts Company \n\nIn popular culture, Madonna has generated records titles by others ways in \"Guinness Book of World Records\". They said: You might not be able to run as fast as Michael Johnson, or sell as many records as Madonna.\n\n\n\nGeneral\n\nSpecific\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19620274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19620274", "title": "List of Ultras of Tibet, East Asia and neighbouring areas", "text": "List of Ultras of Tibet, East Asia and neighbouring areas\n\nThis is a list of all the Ultra prominent peaks (with topographic prominence greater than 1,500 metres) in Tibet, East Asia and neighbouring areas of Burma and India, including South India and Sri Lanka.\n\nE. Jurgalski and others:\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "10115426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10115426", "title": "List of brown algal genera", "text": "List of brown algal genera\n\nThis is a list of the orders, families and genera in the class Phaeophyceae — the brown algae.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13438855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13438855", "title": "List of ecoregions in Afghanistan", "text": "List of ecoregions in Afghanistan\n\nThe following is a list of ecoregions in Afghanistan, according to the World Wildlife Fund (WWF):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "146118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146118", "title": "List of long-distance footpaths", "text": "List of long-distance footpaths\n\nThis is a list of some long-distance footpaths used for walking and hiking.\n\n\n\n\nThe merit of hiking trails in Hong Kong is that hikers can enjoy scenery of both the sea and highland.\n\nTranscaucasian Trail:\n\nA long distance trail in the caucasus has been a lingering idea for trekkers and hikers for many years since they started hiking remote parts of the Caucasus. \nMany sections of the TCT already exist, used by local community members and shepherds for centuries. These trail cross long valleys and traverse mammoth mountains to connect mountain villages together. Unfortunately, in recent years many of these trails have fallen into disrepair, and while many trails are known to locals, they are difficult to navigate for visitors and tourists. \nIn 2015, two Peace Corps volunteers, Paul Stephens and Jeff Haack, mapped and charted known routes in The Republic of Georgia. During this time they succeeded in locating many connections between known trails and publicizing the concept of the trail. In 2016, Tom Allen and Alessandro Mambelli scouted new trail routes in Armenia while the first trail building project began in Svaneti, Georgia. In 2017, the trail building expanded to Dilijan National Park in Armenia while trail building continued in the Svaneti region. \nToday, over 300 km of trail has been improved and marked in Georgia and Armenia. Many 7-10 day guided hikes are available on the TCT this summer. Over the next 5 years, the trail will be expanded to connect all of the sections and create even longer hikes.\nThe TCT can serve many purposes in the Caucasus region. For one, the natural diversity of the area needs to be protected. This habitat fosters many species of animal and provides unique ecosystems created by the mountains. \nMore information about the trail can be found at transcaucasiantrail.org . \nDonations can be sustaining or one-time.\n\n\n\n\n\nHkakabo Razi Trail, climbing the highest peak in Myanmar, in Khakaborazi National Park, and various footpaths in Putao\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: \n\n\n\n\n\n\nSee: List of long-distance hiking tracks in Australia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37835381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37835381", "title": "List of nature centres in Australia", "text": "List of nature centres in Australia\n\nThe following is a list of notable nature centres and environmental education centres in Australia:\n\n"}
{"id": "51088053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51088053", "title": "List of recently extinct plants", "text": "List of recently extinct plants\n\nAs of September 2016, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) lists 116 extinct species, 132 possibly extinct species, 35 extinct in the wild species, 13 possibly extinct in the wild species, five extinct subspecies, one extinct in the wild subspecies, and four extinct varieties of plant.\n\nExtinct species\nPossibly extinct species\n\nThere are three bryophyte extinct species evaluated by the IUCN.\n\nExtinct species\n\nExtinct species\n\nExtinct species\nPossibly extinct species\n\nExtinct in the wild species\n\nPossibly extinct species\n\nExtinct in the wild species\n\nExtinct species\n\nPossibly extinct species\n\nExtinct in the wild species\n\nPossibly extinct in the wild species\n\nExtinct subspecies\n\nExtinct in the wild subspecies\nExtinct varieties\n\nExtinct species\n\nPossibly extinct species\n\nExtinct in the wild species\n\nPossibly extinct in the wild species\nExtinct varieties\n\n"}
{"id": "8591772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8591772", "title": "List of stars in Octans", "text": "List of stars in Octans\n\nThis is the list of notable stars in the constellation Octans, sorted by decreasing brightness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "393306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=393306", "title": "List of urban public parks and gardens in Hong Kong", "text": "List of urban public parks and gardens in Hong Kong\n\nUrban public parks and gardens in Hong Kong include:\n\nNote: Most public parks and gardens in Hong Kong are managed by the Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1989963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1989963", "title": "Mansion of Bahjí", "text": "Mansion of Bahjí\n\nThe Mansion of Bahjí (, Qasr Bahjī, \"mansion of delight\") is a summer house in Acre, Israel where Bahá'u'lláh, the founder of the Bahá'í Faith, died in 1892. His shrine is located next to this house. The whole area was called \"Al-Bahjá\" (\"Place of Delight\").\n\nThe area was originally a garden planted by Sulayman Pasha, who was the ruler of Acre, for his daughter Fatimih, and he named it Bahji. Later the area was further beautified by `Abdu'llah Pasha, and in 1831 when Ibrahim Pasha besieged Acre he used the property as his headquarters. The property was well known for its beautiful gardens and pond fed by an aqueduct. The property then fell into the possession of a Christian family, the Jamals.\n\nIn 1870 `Udi Khammar, a wealthy merchant from Acre who also originally owned the House of `Abbúd, bought some of the land from the Jamals close to the mansion of `Abdu'llah Pasha and built the Mansion of Bahji, over an earlier and smaller building, which Abdu'llah Pasha had had built for his mother. `Udi Khammar had built the house for his family, and when he died was buried in a tomb in the south-east corner of the wall directly around the building. In 1879 an epidemic caused the inhabitants to flee and the building became vacant.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá first rented, and then purchased, the mansion for Bahá'u'lláh and the Bahá'í holy family to live in, and Bahá'u'lláh moved from Mazra'ih to Bahji and resided in the building until his death. In 1890 the Cambridge orientalist Edward Granville Browne met Bahá'u'lláh in this house; after this meeting he wrote his famous pen-portrait of Bahá'u'lláh. \n\nWhen Bahá'u'lláh died in 1892 he was interred in one of the surrounding buildings, and that building became the shrine of Bahá'u'lláh. After his death in 1898, Bahá'u'lláh's son Díyá'u'lláh was initially buried next to his father. However, having been declared a Covenant-breaker, Díyá'u'lláh's remains were disinterred in a \"process\" of \"purification\" through \"cleansing\" the \"inner sanctuary\" of the \"most hallowed shrine\", the \"Qiblih\" of the \"Bahá'í World\". The site has since been beautified with paradise gardens, which are termed \"Haram-i-Aqdas\" (the Most Holy Precincts or Sanctuary) and are intersected by a circular path which serves to circumambulate the shrine of Bahá'u'lláh. The Mansion, shrine, and surrounding gardens are among the most sacred spots on earth for Bahá'ís and are Bahá'í pilgrimage sites.\n\nOn November 12, 1952, a cablegram sent by Shoghi Effendi announced the \"acquisition of vitally-needed property\" of the Mansion of Bahji and the area around it from \"the Development Authority of the State of Israel...The exchange of said property, including land and houses, was made possible by the precipitate flight of the former Arab owners.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54483236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54483236", "title": "Neopluvial", "text": "Neopluvial\n\nNeopluvial is a term referring to a phase of wetter and colder climate in the western United States in the late Holocene, causing the levels of lakes in the Great Basin to increase and previously dry lakes and springs to refill. It is in part correlative to the Neoglacial, and might have been caused by a change in winter time conditions over the North Pacific. It resembles the pluvial period that occurred in western North America during the late last glacial maximum, but was much weaker than the LGM wet period.\n\nIt has been observed in Great Salt Lake, Fallen Leaf Lake, Lake Cochise, the Mojave Desert, Mono Lake, Owens Lake, Pyramid Lake, San Luis Lake, Silver Lake, Summer Lake, Tulare Lake and Walker Lake.\n\nDuring the Neopluvial, the Great Salt Lake became fresher, Pyramid Lake reached a water level of above sea level; there is evidence for at least two highstands. Walker Lake, Owens Lake and Mono Lake experienced their highest Holocene water levels, with the volumes of the latter two lakes more than doubling. Likewise water levels in Lake Tahoe rose to the point of overflowing into the Truckee River. Silver Lake in the Mojave Desert formed a perennial lake and vegetation was more widespread in the Little Granite Mountains. Summer Lake rose above its present-day level to an elevation of , although it was not as high as during the mid-Holocene. Water levels rose in Tulare Lake as well.\n\nIn the White Mountains, meadows formed during the Neopluvial. Glaciers grew in the Sierra Nevada, sagebrush steppe, green Mormon tea and other vegetation expanded in the Great Salt Lake region, marshes expanded in the central and northern Great Basin, mammal communities in the Lake Bonneville basin changed, and tree lines dropped, with the lower limit of wooden vegetation penetrating into deserts. Counterintuitively, higher tree line elevations in the Lake Bonneville area occurred during the Neopluvial. In the Owens Valley region, during the Neopluvial the population became more sedentary and trans-Sierra Nevada trade became established (\"Newberry\"/\"Middle Archaic Period\"). Population around Lake Alvord increased during this time and lasted even after the Neopluvial had ended there.\n\nThe beginning of the Neopluvial occurred about 6,000 years before present, but did not occur everywhere at the same time. Rising water levels in Lake Tahoe drowned trees between 4,800 and 5,700 years before present. In the Great Salt Lake, the Neopluvial commenced 5,000 years before present and water levels reached their maximum between 3,000 and 2,000 years before present. In Pyramid Lake, the Neopluvial commenced starting from 5,000 years before present and reached a maximum between 4,100 - 3,800 years before present in Pyramid Lake, between 4,000 and 2,000 years before present in the Carson Sink, between 3,000 - 4,000 years before present in Lake Cochise, between 5,100 and 2,650 years before present in the central-northern Great Basin, between 4,000 and 2,500 years before present in the Mojave Desert, between 4,000 and 1,900 years ago in the Summer Lake area, and 3,700 years before present in Fallen Leaf Lake. The end of the Neopluvial in Fallen Leaf Lake occurred 3,650 years before present; after that point precipitation became more irregular until the onset of the Little Ice Age about 3,000 years later. In Tulare Lake, the Neopluvial lasted between 4,500 and 2,800 years before present; after that a severe drought occurred. The Neopluvial in the Lake Lahontan basin ended about 2,000 years ago.\n\nThese broadly synchronous patterns in the Great Basin were paralleled in the Rocky Mountains. High elevation lakes with small watersheds, particularly sensitive to a changing water balance, showed synchronous increase in lake levels from 6,000 to 5,000 years before present, centered at 5,700 years ago. This shift was followed by abundant evidence of neoglacial cooling throughout the northern hemisphere. This cooling is primarily explained by steadily declining summer insolation, though synchronous patterns in hydrological responses at sub-millennial scales may be linked to atmospheric circulation shifts driven by factors such as internal variability in ocean-atmosphere teleconnections.\n\nThe term \"neopluvial\" has also been used for a mid-to-late Holocene phase of increased moisture noted in the form of increased wetness in eastern Texas, potentially linked to a stronger monsoon.\n\n"}
{"id": "36710027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36710027", "title": "Rainbows in culture", "text": "Rainbows in culture\n\nThe rainbow, a natural phenomenon noted for its design and its place in the sky, has been a favorite component of art and religion throughout history.\n\nThe rainbow has a place in legend owing to its beauty and the historical difficulty in explaining the phenomenon.\n\nIn Greco-Roman mythology, the rainbow was considered to be a path made by a messenger (Iris) between Earth and Heaven.\n\nIn Chinese mythology, the rainbow was a slit in the sky sealed by goddess Nüwa using stones of five different colours.\n\nThe Irish leprechaun's secret hiding place for his pot of gold is usually said to be at the end of the rainbow. This place is impossible to reach, because the rainbow is an optical effect which depends on the location of the viewer. When walking towards the end of a rainbow, it will appear to \"move\" further away (two people who simultaneously observe a rainbow at different locations will disagree about where a rainbow is).\n\nAccording to Genesis, after Noah's flood God put the rainbow in the sky as the sign of His promise that He would never again destroy the earth with flood (Genesis 9:13–17):\nI do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth. And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud: And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh. And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.Rabbinic Judaism learns from this portion of the Bible that rainbows are a symbol of divine anger and patience. On the occasion of seeing a rainbow, a blessing is said, thanking God for promising to never again flood the world. As well, there were certain Rabbis who never had rainbows appear in their lifetimes, such as Rabbi Shimon bar Yochai and Rabbi Yehoshua ben Levi.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints founder and prophet Joseph Smith stated that the second coming of the Christ would not occur in any year in which a rainbow is seen.\n\nIn the Dreamtime of Australian Aboriginal mythology, the rainbow snake is the deity governing water.\n\nIn Amazonian cultures, rainbows have long been associated with malign spirits that cause harm, such as miscarriages and (especially) skin problems. In the Amuesha language of central Peru, certain diseases are called \"ayona’achartan\", meaning \"the rainbow hurt my skin\". A tradition of closing one's mouth at the sight of a rainbow in order to avoid disease appears to pre-date the Incan empire.\n\nIn New Age and Hindu philosophy, the seven colours of the rainbow represent the seven chakras, from the first chakra (red) to the seventh chakra (violet).\n\nRainbows are generally described as very colourful and peaceful. The rainbow occurs often in paintings. Frequently these have a symbolic or programmatic significance (for example, Albrecht Dürer's Melancholia I). In particular, the rainbow appears regularly in religious art (for example, Joseph Anton Koch's \"Noah's Thank Offering\"). Romantic landscape painters such as Turner and Constable were more concerned with recording fleeting effects of light (for example, Constable's Salisbury Cathedral from the Meadows). Other notable examples appear in work by Hans Memling, Caspar David Friedrich, and Peter Paul Rubens.\n\nIn contemporary visual art, the rainbow often appears as well, notably in Peter Coffin's \"Untitled (Rainbow)\", 2005, and in Ugo Rondinone's \"Hell, Yes!\", 2001. Like many other cultural references to the rainbow, these either emphasize the possible sublimity of the natural world or the cheerfulness, joy, and celebration often culturally associated with a profusion of colors.\n\nIn 2012, American artist, Michael Jones McKean created a large-scale artwork, \"The Rainbow\". The project created, impart, a fully sustainable prismatic rainbow using thousands of gallons of pressurized harvested rainwater, at times stretching several city blocks in size.\nJudith Bauer Stamper's 1987 Find Your Fate book \"Jem and The Holograms #3: The Secret of Rainbow Island \", involves the reader in saving Rainbow Island, a tropical island that frequently has rainbows.\n\nAmerican legend retelling \"The Rough Face Girl\" involves the heroines seeing an invisible Chief, who wears a rainbow as a sash.\n\nStephen King's 1985 book 'It\" features a scene where Ben Hanscom sees a spray bow while fighting with Henry Bowers in The Barrens, and comments on finding gold at the end of it.\n\nThe 1983 \"Care Bears \" book \"A Sister for Ben\" involves Cheer Bear, whose tummy symbol is a rainbow, telling Ben he will see a rainbow when his sister says her first word.\n\nDan Piraro's comic strip \"Bizarro\" featured a 2008 cartoon about fictional pirate Rainbowbeard in response to Proposition 8.\n\nThe rainbow inspires metaphor and simile. Virginia Woolf in \"To the Lighthouse\" highlights the transience of life and Man's mortality through Mrs Ramsey's thought,\n\nWordsworth's 1802 poem \"My Heart Leaps Up\" begins:\n\nThe Newtonian deconstruction of the rainbow is said to have provoked John Keats to lament in his 1820 poem \"\":\n\nIn contrast to this is Richard Dawkins; talking about his book \"Unweaving the Rainbow: Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder\":\n\"My title is from Keats, who believed that Newton had destroyed all the poetry of the rainbow by reducing it to the prismatic colours. Keats could hardly have been more wrong, and my aim is to guide all who are\ntempted by a similar view, towards the opposite conclusion. Science is, or ought to be, the inspiration for great poetry.\"\n\n\n\n\nRainbow flags tend to be used as a sign of a new era, of hope, or of social change. Rainbow flags have been used in many places over the centuries: in the German Peasants' War in the 16th century, as a symbol of the Cooperative movement; as a symbol of peace, especially in Italy; to represent the Tawantin Suyu, or Inca territory, mainly in Peru and Bolivia; by some Druze communities in the Middle east; by the Jewish Autonomous Oblast; to represent the International Order of Rainbow for Girls since the early 1920s, and as a symbol of gay pride and LGBT social movements since the 1970s. In the 1990s, Archibishop Desmond Tutu and President Nelson Mandela described the newly democratic South Africa as the \"rainbow nation\", also alluding to its diversity and multiculturalism.\n"}
{"id": "33941695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33941695", "title": "Solar Energy Perspectives", "text": "Solar Energy Perspectives\n\nSolar Energy Perspectives is a 2011 book by the International Energy Agency.\n\nSolar energy technologies come in various forms – solar heating, solar photovoltaics, solar thermal electricity – and can make considerable contributions to solving some of the most urgent problems the world now faces: \n\nThe development of affordable, inexhaustible and clean solar energy technologies will have huge longer-term benefits. It will increase countries’ energy security through reliance on an indigenous, inexhaustible and mostly import-independent resource, enhance sustainability, reduce pollution, lower the costs of mitigating climate change, and keep fossil fuel prices lower than otherwise. These advantages are global. Hence the additional costs of the incentives for early deployment should be considered learning investments; they must be wisely spent and need to be widely shared.\n\"Solar Energy Perspectives\" builds upon past analyses of solar energy deployment contained in the \"World Energy Outlook\", \"Energy Technology Perspectives\" and several IEA \"Technology Roadmaps\". It aims at \"offering an updated picture of current technology trends and markets, as well as new analyses on how solar energy technologies for electricity, heat and fuels can be used in the various energy consuming sectors, now and in the future\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10084899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10084899", "title": "Static synchronous compensator", "text": "Static synchronous compensator\n\nA static synchronous compensator (STATCOM), also known as a static synchronous condenser (STATCON), is a regulating device used on alternating current electricity transmission networks. It is based on a power electronics voltage-source converter and can act as either a source or sink of reactive AC power to an electricity network. If connected to a source of power it can also provide active AC power. It is a member of the FACTS family of devices. It is inherently modular and electable.\n\nThese compensators are also usable to reduce voltage fluctuations.\n\nUsually a STATCOM is installed to support electricity networks that have a poor power factor and often poor voltage regulation. There are however, other uses, the most common use is for voltage stability.\n\nA STATCOM is a voltage source converter (VSC)-based device, with the voltage source behind a reactor. The voltage source is created from a DC capacitor and therefore a STATCOM has very little active power capability. However, its active power capability can be increased if a suitable energy storage device is connected across the DC capacitor.\nThe reactive power at the terminals of the STATCOM depends on the amplitude of the voltage source. For example, if the terminal voltage of the VSC is higher than the AC voltage at the point of connection, the STATCOM generates reactive current; conversely, when the amplitude of the voltage source is lower than the AC voltage, it absorbs reactive power.\nThe response time of a STATCOM is shorter than that of a static VAR compensator (SVC), mainly due to the fast switching times provided by the IGBTs of the voltage source converter. The STATCOM also provides better reactive power support at low AC voltages than an SVC, since the reactive power from a STATCOM decreases linearly with the AC voltage (as the current can be maintained at the rated value even down to low AC voltage).\n\nA static var compensator can also be used for voltage stability. However, a STATCOM has better characteristics than an SVC. When the system voltage drops sufficiently to force the STATCOM output current to its ceiling, its maximum reactive output current will not be affected by the voltage magnitude. Therefore, it exhibits constant current characteristics when the voltage is low under the limit. In contrast the SVC's reactive output is proportional to the square of the voltage magnitude. This makes the provided reactive power decrease rapidly when voltage decreases, thus reducing its stability. In addition, the speed of response of a STATCOM is faster than that of an SVC and the harmonic emission is lower, however STATCOMs typically exhibit higher losses and may be more expensive than SVCs, so the (older) SVC technology is still widespread.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3644330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3644330", "title": "The Blood of a Poet", "text": "The Blood of a Poet\n\nThe Blood of a Poet () (1930) is an avant-garde film directed by Jean Cocteau, financed by Charles de Noailles and starring Enrique Riveros, a Chilean actor who had a successful career in European films. Photographer Lee Miller made her only film appearance in this movie, which features an appearance by the famed aerialist Barbette. It is the first part of the Orphic Trilogy, which is continued in \"Orphée\" (1950) and concludes with \"Testament of Orpheus\" (1960).\n\n\"The Blood of a Poet\" is divided into four sections. In section one, an artist sketches a face and is startled when its mouth starts moving. He rubs out the mouth, only to discover that it has transferred to the palm of his hand. After experimenting with the hand for a while and falling asleep, the artist awakens and places the mouth over the mouth of a female statue.\n\nIn section two, the statue speaks to the artist, cajoling him into passing through a mirror. The mirror transports the artist to a hotel, where he peers through several keyholes, witnessing such people as an opium smoker and a hermaphrodite. The artist is handed a gun and a disembodied voice instructs him how to shoot himself in the head. He shoots himself but does not die. The artist cries out that he has seen enough and returns through the mirror. He smashes the statue with a mallet.\n\nIn section three, some students are having a snowball fight. An older boy throws a snowball at a younger boy, but the snowball turns out to be a chunk of marble. The young boy dies from the impact.\n\nIn the final section, a card sharp plays a game with a woman on a table set up over the body of the dead boy. A theatre party looks on. The card sharp extracts an Ace of Hearts from the dead boy's breast pocket. The boy's guardian angel appears and absorbs the dead boy. He also removes the Ace of Hearts from the card sharp's hand and retreats up a flight of stairs and through a door. Realizing he has lost, the card sharp commits suicide as the theatre party applauds. A female player transforms into the formerly smashed statue and walks off through the snow, leaving no footprints. In the film's final moments the statue is shown with an ox, a globe, and a lyre.\n\nIntercut through the film, oneiric images appear, including spinning wire models of a human head and rotating double-sided masks.\n\n\n\"The Blood of a Poet\" was funded by Charles, Vicomte de Noailles, who gave Cocteau 1,000,000 francs to make it. Cocteau invited the Vicomte and his wife Marie-Laure de Noailles, along with several of their friends, to appear in a scene as a theatre party. In the scene, they talked among themselves and, on cue, began applauding. Upon seeing the completed film, they were horrified to learn that they were applauding a game of cards that ended with a suicide, which had been filmed separately. They refused to let Cocteau release the film with their scene included, so Cocteau re-shot it with the famed female impersonator Barbette and some extras.\n\nShortly after the completion of the film, rumors began to circulate that it contained an anti-Christian message. This, combined with the riotous reception of another controversial Noailles-produced film, \"L'âge d'or\", led to Charles de Noailles' expulsion from the famous Jockey-Club de Paris, and he was even threatened with excommunication by the Catholic Church. The furore caused the release of \"The Blood of a Poet\" to be delayed for more than a year.\n\nOn Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 94% based on , with a weighted average rating of 7.7/10. Author and film critic Leonard Maltin awarded the film three out of four stars, calling it \"Imaginative, dreamlike, and still a visual delight.\"\n"}
{"id": "473727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473727", "title": "Triple Goddess (Neopaganism)", "text": "Triple Goddess (Neopaganism)\n\nThe Triple Goddess has been adopted by many neopagans as one of their primary deities. In common Neopagan usage the three female figures are frequently described as the Maiden, the Mother, and the Crone, each of which symbolizes both a separate stage in the female life cycle and a phase of the Moon, and often rules one of the realms of earth, underworld, and the heavens. These may or may not be perceived as aspects of a greater single divinity. The Goddess of Wicca's duotheistic theology is sometimes portrayed as the Triple Goddess, her masculine consort being the Horned God.\n\nThe term \"triple goddess\" can be used outside of Neopaganism to instead refer to historical goddess triads and single goddesses of three forms or aspects.\n\nThe Triple Goddess was the subject of much of the writing of the prominent early and middle 20th-century poet, novelist and mythographer Robert Graves, in his books \"The White Goddess\" and \"The Greek Myths\" as well as in his poetry and novels. Modern neo-pagan conceptions of the Triple Goddess have been heavily influenced by Robert Graves who regarded the Triple Goddess as the continuing muse of all true poetry and who speculatively reconstructed her ancient worship, drawing on the scholarship of his time, in particular Jane Ellen Harrison and other Cambridge Ritualists. The influential Hungarian scholar of Greek mythology Karl Kerenyi likewise perceived an underlying triple moon goddess in Greek mythology. More recently the prominent archaeologist Marija Gimbutas has argued for the ancient worship of a Triple Goddess in Europe, attracting much controversy, and her ideas also influence modern neo-paganism.\n\nMany neopagan belief systems follow Graves in his use of the figure of the Triple Goddess, and it continues to be an influence on feminism, literature, Jungian psychology and literary criticism.\n\nThe relationship between the neopagan Triple Goddess and ancient religion is disputed, although it is not disputed that triple goddesses were known to ancient religion; for example, in Stymphalos, Hera was worshiped as a Girl, a Grown-up, and a Widow.\n\nRonald Hutton, a scholar of neopaganism, argues that the concept of the triple moon goddess as Maiden, Mother, and Crone, each facet corresponding to a phase of the moon, is a modern creation of Robert Graves, drawing on the work of 19th and 20th century scholars such as especially Jane Harrison; and also Margaret Murray, James Frazer, the other members of the \"myth and ritual\" school or Cambridge Ritualists, and the occultist and writer Aleister Crowley. The Triple Goddess was here distinguished by Hutton from the prehistoric Great Mother Goddess, as described by Marija Gimbutas and others, whose worship in ancient times he regarded as neither proven nor disproven Nor did Hutton dispute that in ancient pagan worship \"partnerships of three divine women\" occurred; rather he proposes that Jane Harrison looked to such partnerships to help explain how ancient goddesses could be both virgin and mother (the third person of the triad being as yet unnamed). Here she was according to Hutton \"extending\" the ideas of the prominent archaeologist Sir Arthur Evans who in excavating Knossos in Crete had come to the view that prehistoric Cretans had worshiped a single mighty goddess at once virgin and mother. In Hutton's view Evans' opinion owed an \"unmistakable debt\" to the Christian belief in the Virgin Mary.\n\nAs a poet and mythographer, Graves claimed a historical basis for the triple-goddess, and an ongoing tradition of her worship among poets. Although Graves's work is widely discounted by academics as pseudohistory (see The White Goddess § Criticism and The Greek Myths § Reception), it continues to have a lasting influence on many areas of Neopaganism.\n\nAuthor and Pagan scholar Raven Grimassi, in his books \"Old World Witchcraft\" (Weiser, 2012), and \"The Witches’ Craft\" (Llewellyn 2002), points out that certain ancient writings are in sharp contrast against the views of scholars such as Ronald Hutton (who he specifically refers to). Grimassi presents ancient literary writings that mention the basic concept of a Triformis goddess associated with Witchcraft. One of his source examples appears in Lucan's ancient tale of a group of witches, written in the first century BCE. In Lucan's work (LUC. B.C. 6:700-01) the witches make the following comment: \"\"Persephone, who is the third and lowest aspect of our goddess Hecate\"...\" \"'(Lucan: The Civil War, Harvard University Press, 2006)\". Grimassi concludes that this source strongly suggests the concept of Witches having a triformis or three-fold goddess (and the notion appears almost two thousand years prior to Gerald Gardner's time). Another source example offered by Grimassi is found in Ovid's tale (Met. 7:94–95) in which Jason swears an oath to the witch Medea, saying he would \"be true by the sacred rites of the three-fold goddess\" \"(Penguin Classics, Ovid Metamorphoses, 2004)\". Grimassi’s position is that these sources clearly demonstrate that, contrary to scholarly opinion, the basic concept of a triformis goddess venerated in Witchcraft is not a modern construction, and pre-exists the Romantic era and the work of Gerald Gardner and his cohorts. It is Grimassi's contention that the \"Triple Goddess\" in Neopaganism is rooted in ancient thought and literature, from which it is ultimately derived.\n\nAccording to Ronald Hutton, the concept of a Triple Goddess with Maiden, Mother and Crone aspects and lunar symbology was Robert Graves's contribution to modern paganism. Hutton says that Graves, in his \"The White Goddess: a Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth\" (1948), took Harrison's idea of goddess-worshipping matriarchal early Europe\nand the imagery of three aspects, and related these to the Triple Goddess.\n\nGraves wrote extensively on the subject of the Triple Goddess who he saw as the Muse of all true poetry in both ancient and modern literature. He thought that her ancient worship underlay much of classical Greek myth although reflected there in a more or less distorted or incomplete form. As an example of an unusually complete survival of the \"ancient triad\" he cites from the classical source Pausanias the worship of Hera in three persons. Pausanias recorded the ancient worship of \"Hera Pais\" (Girl Hera), \"Hera Teleia\" (Adult Hera), and \"Hera Khera\" (Widow Hera, though \"Khera\" can also mean separated or divorced) at a single sanctuary reputedly built by Temenus, son of Pelasgus, in Stymphalos. Other examples he gives include the goddess triad Moira, Ilythia and Callone (\"Death, Birth and Beauty\") from Plato's Symposium; the goddess Hecate; the story of the rape of Kore, (the triad here Graves said to be Kore, Persephone and Hecate with Demeter the general name of the goddess); alongside a large number of other configurations. A figure he used from outside of Greek myth was of the Akan Triple Moon Goddess Ngame, who Graves said was still worshipped in 1960.\n\nGraves regarded \"true poetry\" as inspired by the Triple Goddess, as an example of her continuing influence in English poetry he instances the \"Garland of Laurell\" by the English poet, John Skelton (c.1460–1529) — \"Diana in the leavës green, Luna that so bright doth sheen, Persephone in Hell.\" — as evoking his Triple Goddess in her three realms of earth, sky and underworld. Skelton was here following the Latin poet Ovid. James Frazer's seminal Golden Bough centres around the cult of the Roman goddess Diana Nemorensis who had 3 aspects, ruling the sky, the earth and the underworld and was associated especially with the moon.\n\nGraves states that his Triple Goddess is the Great Goddess \"in her poetic or incantatory character\", and that the goddess in her ancient form took the gods of the waxing and waning year successively as her lovers. Graves believed that the Triple Goddess was an aboriginal deity also of Britain, and that traces of her worship survived in early modern British witchcraft and in various modern British cultural attitudes such as what Graves believed to be a preference for a female sovereign.\n\nIn the anthology \"The Greek Myths\" (1955), Graves systematically applied his convictions enshrined in \"The White Goddess\" to Greek mythology, exposing a large number of readers to his various theories concerning goddess worship in ancient Greece. Graves posited that Greece had been settled by a matriarchal goddess-worshipping people before being invaded by successive waves of patriarchal Indo-European speakers from the north. Much of Greek myth in his view recorded the consequent religious political and social accommodations until the final triumph of patriarchy. Graves did not invent this picture but drew from nineteenth and early twentieth century scholarship. This account has not been disproved, but alternative explanations have emerged, and it is not accepted as a consensus view. The twentieth century archaeologist Marija Gimbutas (see below) also argued for a triple goddess-worshipping European neolithic modified and eventually overwhelmed by waves of partiarchal invaders although she saw this neolithic civilization as egalitarian and \"matristic\" rather than \"matriarchal\" in the sense of gynocratic.\n\nIn the 1949 novel \"Seven Days in New Crete\", Graves extrapolated this theory into an imagined future society where the worship of the Triple Goddess (under the three aspects of the maiden archer Nimuë, the goddess of motherhood and sexuality Mari, and the hag-goddess of wisdom Ana) is the main form of religion.\n\nIn her discussion of James Mellaart's theories regarding Çatalhöyük, Lynn Meskell says it is probable that the Triple Goddess originated with the work of Jane Ellen Harrison. Harrison asserts the existence of female trinities, discusses the Horae as chronological symbols representing the phases of the Moon and goes on to equate the Horae with the Seasons, the Graces and the Fates. and the three seasons of the ancient Greek year, and notes that \"[T]he matriarchal goddess may well have reflected the three stages of a woman's life.\"\n\nRonald Hutton writes:[Harrison's] work, both celebrated and controversial, posited the previous existence of a peaceful and intensely creative woman-centred civilization, in which humans, living in harmony with nature and their own emotions, worshipped a single female deity. The deity was regarded as representing the earth, and as having three aspects, of which the first two were Maiden and Mother; she did not name the third. ... Following her work, the idea of a matristic early Europe which had venerated such a deity was developed in books by amateur scholars such as Robert Briffault's \"The Mothers\" (1927) and Robert Graves's \"The White Goddess\" (1946).\n\nJohn Michael Greer writes:Harrison proclaimed that Europe itself had been the location of an idyllic, goddess-worshipping, matriarchal civilization just before the beginning of recorded history, and spoke bitterly of the disastrous consequences of the Indo-European invasion that destroyed it. In the hands of later writers such as Robert Graves, Jacquetta Hawkes, and Marija Gimbutas, this 'lost civilization of the goddess' came to play the same sort of role in many modern Pagan communities as Atlantis and Lemuria did in Theosophy.\n\nThe \"myth and ritual\" school or the Cambridge Ritualists, of which Harrison was a key figure, while controversial in its day, is now considered passé in intellectual and academic terms. According to Robert Ackerman, \"[T]he reason the Ritualists have fallen into disfavor... is not that their assertions have been controverted by new information... Ritualism has been swept away not by an access of new facts but of new theories.\"\n\nRonald Hutton wrote on the decline the \"Great Goddess\" theory specifically: \"The effect upon professional prehistorians was to make most return, quietly and without controversy, to that careful agnosticism as to the nature of ancient religion which most had preserved until the 1940s. There had been no absolute disproof of the veneration of a Great Goddess, only a demonstration that the evidence concerned admitted of alternative explanations.\"\n\nScholar Marija Gimbutas's theories relating to goddess-centered culture among pre-Indo-European \"Old Europe\" (6500–3500 BCE) have been widely adopted by New Age and ecofeminist groups. She had been referred to as the \"Grandmother of the Goddess Movement\" in the 1990s.\n\nGimbutas postulated that in \"Old Europe\", the Aegean and the Near East, a great Triple Goddess was worshipped, predating what she deemed as a patriarchal religion imported by the Kurgans, nomadic speakers of Indo-European languages. Gimbutas interpreted iconography from Neolithic and earlier periods of European history evidence of worship of a triple goddess represented by:\nThe first and third aspects of the goddess, according to Gimbutas, were frequently conflated to make a goddess of death-and-regeneration represented in folklore by such figures as Baba Yaga. Gimbutas regarded the Eleusinian Mysteries as a survival into classical antiquity of this ancient goddess worship, a suggestion which Georg Luck echos.\n\nSkepticism regarding her goddess-centered Old Europe thesis is widespread within the academic community. Gimbutas's work in this area has been criticized as mistaken on the grounds of dating, archaeological context and typologies, with most archaeologists considering her goddess hypothesis implausible. Lauren Talalay, reviewing Gimbutas' last book, \"The Living Goddesses\", says that it reads \"more like a testament of faith than a well-conceived thesis\", stating that \"Just because a triangle schematically mimics the female pubic region, or a hedgehog resembles a uterus (!), or dogs are allied with death in Classical mythology, it is hardly justifiable to associate all these images with 'the formidable goddess of regeneration'.\" Lynn Meskell considers such an approach \"irresponsible\". However, linguist M. L. West has called Gimbutas's goddess-based \"Old European\" religion being overtaken by a patriarchal Indo-European one \"essentially sound\".\n\nAcademic rejection of her theories has been echoed by some feminist authors, including Cynthia Eller. Others argue that her account challenges male-centred histories and creates a powerful origin-myth of female empowerment. John Chapman suggests that Gimbutas' Goddess theories were a poetic projection of her personal life, based on her idealized childhood and adolescence.\n\nWhile many Neopagans are not Wiccan, and within Neopaganism the practices and theology vary widely, many Wiccans and other neopagans worship the \"Triple Goddess\" of maiden, mother, and crone, a practice going back to mid-twentieth-century England. In their view, sexuality, pregnancy, breastfeeding — and other female reproductive processes — are ways that women may embody the Goddess, making the physical body sacred.\n\n\nThe triple goddess sign is identified with Greek moon goddesses: \n\nHelen Berger writes that \"according to believers, this echoing of women's life stages allowed women to identify with deity in a way that had not been possible since the advent of patriarchal religions.\" The Church of All Worlds is one example of a neopagan organization which identifies the Triple Goddess as symbolizing a \"fertility cycle\". This model is also supposed to encompass a personification of all the characteristics and potential of every woman who has ever existed. Other beliefs held by worshippers, such as Wiccan author D. J. Conway, include that reconnection with the Great Goddess is vital to the health of humankind \"on all levels\". Conway includes the Greek goddesses Demeter, Kore-Persephone, and Hecate, in her discussion of the Maiden-Mother-Crone archetype. For Conway, the Triple Goddess stands for unity, cooperation, and participation with all creation, while in contrast male gods represent dissociation, separation and dominion of nature. These views have been criticized by members of both the neopagan and scholarly communities as re-affirming gender stereotypes and symbolically being unable to adequately face humanity's current ethical and environmental situation.\n\nThe Dianic tradition adopted Graves's Triple Goddess, along with other elements from Wicca, and is named after the Roman goddess Diana, the goddess of the witches in Charles Godfrey Leland's 1899 book \"Aradia\". Zsuzsanna Budapest, widely considered the founder of Dianic Wicca, considers her Goddess \"the original Holy Trinity; Virgin, Mother, and Crone.\" Dianic Wiccans such as Ruth Barrett, follower of Budapest and co-founder of the \"Temple of Diana\", use the Triple Goddess in ritual work and correspond the \"special directions\" of \"above\", \"center\", and \"below\" to Maiden, Mother, and Crone respectively. Barrett says \"Dianics honour \"She who has been called\" by Her daughters throughout time, in many places, and by many names.\"\n\nSome neopagans assert that the worship of the Triple Goddess dates to pre-Christian Europe and possibly goes as far back as the Paleolithic period and consequently claim that their religion is a surviving remnant of ancient beliefs. They believe the Triple Goddess is an archetypal figure which appears in a number of different cultures throughout human history, and that many individual goddesses can be interpreted as Triple Goddesses, The wide acceptance of an archetype theory has led to neopagans adopting the images and names of culturally divergent deities for ritual purposes; for instance, Conway, and goddess feminist artist Monica Sjöö, connect the Triple Goddess to the Hindu Tridevi (literally \"three goddesses\") of Saraswati, Lakshmi, and Parvati (Kali/Durga).\n\nSeveral advocates of Wicca, such as Vivianne Crowley and Selena Fox, are practising psychologists or psychotherapists, and the work of Jung has had a large influence on their work. Wouter J. Hanegraaff comments that Crowley's works can give the impression that Wicca is little more than a religious and ritual translation of Jungian psychology.\n\nThe Triple Goddess as an archetype is discussed in the works of Carl Jung and Karl Kerényi, and the later works of their follower, Erich Neumann. Jung considered the general arrangement of deities in triads as a pattern which arises at the most primitive level of human mental development and culture.\n\nIn 1949 Jung and Kerényi theorized that groups of three goddesses found in Greece become quaternities only by association with a male god. They give the example of Diana only becoming three (Daughter, Wife, Mother) through her relationship to Zeus, the male deity. They go on to state that different cultures and groups associate different numbers and cosmological bodies with gender. \"The threefold division [of the year] is inextricably bound up with the primitive form of the goddess Demeter, who was also Hecate, and Hecate could claim to be mistress of the three realms. In addition, her relations to the moon, the corn, and the realm of the dead are three fundamental traits in her nature. The goddess's sacred number is the special number of the underworld: '3' dominates the chthonic cults of antiquity.\"\n\nKarl Kerenyi, wrote in 1952 that several Greek goddesses were triple moon goddesses of the Maiden Mother Crone type, including Hera and others.\n\nIn discussing examples of his Great Mother archetype, Neumann mentions the Fates as \"the threefold form of the Great Mother\", details that \"the reason for their appearance in threes or nines, or more seldom in twelves, is to be sought in the threefold articulation underlying all created things; but here it refers most particularly to the three temporal stages of all growth (beginning-middle-end, birth-life-death, past-present-future).\" Andrew Von Hendy claims that Neumann's theories are based on circular reasoning, whereby a Eurocentric view of world mythology is used as evidence for a universal model of individual psychological development which mirrors a sociocultural evolutionary model derived from European mythology.\n\nValerie H. Mantecon follows Annis V. Pratt that the Triple Goddess of Maiden, Mother and Crone is a male invention that both arises from and biases an androcentric view of femininity, and as such the symbolism is often devoid of real meaning or use in depth-psychology for women. Mantecon suggests that a feminist re-visioning of the Crone symbolism away from its usual associations with \"death\" and towards \"wisdom\" can be useful in women transitioning to the menopausal phase of life and that the sense of history that comes from working with mythological symbols adds a sense of meaning to the experience.\n\nThe figure of the Triple Goddess is used by goddess feminists to critique societies' roles and treatment of women. Literary critic Jeanne Roberts sees a rejection of the crone figure by Christians in the Middle Ages as a root cause of the persecution of witches.\n\nAuthor Margaret Atwood recalls reading Graves's \"The White Goddess\" at the age of 19. Atwood describes Graves' concept of the Triple Goddess as employing violent and misandric imagery, and says the restrictive role this model places on creative women put her off being a writer. Atwood's work has been noted as containing Triple Goddess motifs who sometimes appear failed and parodic. Atwood's \"Lady Oracle\" has been cited as a deliberate parody of the Triple Goddess, which subverts the figure and ultimately liberates the lead female character from the oppressive model of feminine creativity that Graves constructed.\n\nLiterary critic Andrew D. Radford, discussing the symbolism of Thomas Hardy's 1891 novel \"Tess of the d'Urbervilles\", in terms of Myth sees the Maiden and Mother as two phases of the female lifecycle through which Tess passes, whilst the Crone phase, Tess adopts as a disguise which prepares her for harrowing experiences .\n\nThe concept of the triple goddess has been applied to a feminist reading of Shakespeare.\n\nThomas DeQuincey developed a female trinity, Our Lady of Tears, the Lady of Sighs and Our Lady of Darkness, in \"Suspiria De Profundis\", which has been likened to Graves's Triple Goddess but stamped with DeQuincey's own melancholy sensibility.\n\nAccording to scholar Juliette Wood, modern fantasy fiction plays a large part in the conceptual landscape of the neo-pagan world. The three supernatural female figures called variously the Ladies, Mother of the Camenae, the Kindly Ones, and a number of other different names in \"The Sandman\" comic books by Neil Gaiman, merge the figures of the Fates and the Maiden-Mother-Crone goddess. Alan Garner's \"The Owl Service\", based on the fourth branch of the \"Mabinogion\" and influenced by Robert Graves, clearly delineates the character of the Triple Goddess. Garner goes further in his other novels, making every female character intentionally represent an aspect of the Triple Goddess. In George R.R. Martin's \"A Song of Ice and Fire\" series, the Maid, the Mother, and the Crone are three aspects of the septune deity in the Faith of the Seven, much as the neopagan triple goddess is incorporated in Marion Zimmer Bradley's \"The Mists of Avalon\". Terry Pratchett has also incorporated variations on this theme. \n\nGraves's Triple Goddess motif has been used by Norman Holland to explore the female characters in Alfred Hitchcock's film \"Vertigo\". Roz Kaveney sees the main characters in James Cameron's movie \"Aliens\" as: The Alien Queen (Crone), Ripley (Mother) and Newt (Maiden).\n\nAmerican heavy metal band The Sword's song, \"Maiden, Mother & Crone\", on their album \"Gods of the Earth\", describes an encounter with the Triple Goddess. The video prominently features three aspects of the goddess and a waxing, full, and waning moon.\n\nThere has also been references to the Triple Moon Goddesses on K-pop group Loona's Odd Eye Circle, as each of the three members are portrayed as the goddesses.\n\n"}
{"id": "20433613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20433613", "title": "Universality–diversity paradigm", "text": "Universality–diversity paradigm\n\nThe universality–diversity paradigm is the analysis of biological materials based on the universality and diversity of its fundamental structural elements and functional mechanisms. The analysis of biological systems based on this classification has been a cornerstone of modern biology.\n\nFor example, proteins constitute the elementary building blocks of a vast variety of biological materials such as cells, spider silk or bone, where they create extremely robust, multi-functional materials by self-organization of structures over many length- and time scales, from nano to macro. Some of the structural features are commonly found in many different tissues, that is, they are highly conserved. Examples of such universal building blocks include alpha-helices, beta-sheets or tropocollagen molecules. In contrast, other features are highly specific to tissue types, such as particular\nfilament assemblies, beta-sheet nanocrystals in spider silk or tendon fascicles. This coexistence of universality and diversity—referred to as the universality–diversity paradigm (UDP)—is an overarching feature in biological materials and a crucial component of materiomics. It might provide guidelines for bioinspired and biomimetic material development, where this concept is translated into the use of inorganic or hybrid organic-inorganic building blocks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52740650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52740650", "title": "Zeta Muscae", "text": "Zeta Muscae\n\nThe Bayer designation ζ Muscae (Zeta Muscae, ζ Mus) is shared by two stars in the constellation Musca:\n"}
