{"id": "10495152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10495152", "title": "A5120 road", "text": "A5120 road\n\nThe A5120 is an A-class road in Bedfordshire, linking the conjoined towns of Ampthill and Flitwick to Dunstable and, via the M1 motorway, Luton and London. It connects with the M1 at junction 12, being the sole road at this junction, in close proximity to the Toddington services. On its route from Ampthill to Dunstable, the A5120 serves Westoning, Harlington, Toddington and Tebworth. Unusually for an A-road, it does not meet another A-road at any point between its start on the A507 and its end on the A5. This would change if the A505 Dunstable North Bypass were to be built, however.\n\nWhen the A5120 meets the A5 in Dunstable, the latter is multiplexed with the A505 road. The road passes through the Houghton Regis area of Dunstable as it approaches the town from the north. The road actually continues past the A5, without its A5120 number, as an unclassified road, into the Beecroft industrial estate, where it meets the B489 road from Ivinghoe.\n"}
{"id": "14124037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14124037", "title": "Altitudinal zonation", "text": "Altitudinal zonation\n\nAltitudinal zonation (or elevational zonation) in mountainous regions describes the natural layering of ecosystems that occurs at distinct elevations due to varying environmental conditions. Temperature, humidity, soil composition, and solar radiation are important factors in determining altitudinal zones, which consequently support different vegetation and animal species. Altitudinal zonation was first hypothesized by geographer Alexander von Humboldt who noticed that temperature drops with increasing elevation. Zonation also occurs in intertidal and marine environments, as well as on shorelines and in wetlands. Scientist C. Hart Merriam observed that changes in vegetation and animals in altitudinal zones map onto changes expected with increased latitude in his concept of life zones. Today, altitudinal zonation represents a core concept in mountain research.\n\nA variety of environmental factors determines the boundaries of altitudinal zones found on mountains, ranging from direct effects of temperature and precipitation to indirect characteristics of the mountain itself, as well as biological interactions of the species. The cause of zonation is complex, due to many possible interactions and overlapping species ranges. Careful measurements and statistical tests are required prove the existence of discrete communities along an elevation gradient, as opposed to uncorrelated species ranges.\n\nDecreasing air temperature usually coincides with increasing elevation, which directly influences the length the growing season at different elevations of the mountain. For mountains located in deserts, extreme high temperatures also limit the ability of large deciduous or coniferous trees to grow near the base of mountains. In addition, plants can be especially sensitive to soil temperatures and can have specific elevation ranges that support healthy growth.\n\nThe humidity of certain zones, including precipitation levels, atmospheric humidity, and potential for evapotranspiration, varies with elevation and is a significant factor in determining altitudinal zonation. The most important variable is precipitation at various elevations. As warm, moist air rises up the windward side of a mountain, the air temperature cools and loses its capacity to hold moisture. Thus, the greatest amount of rainfall is expected at mid-latitudes and can support deciduous forest development. Above a certain elevation the rising air becomes too dry and cold, and thus discourages tree growth. Even though rainfall may not be a significant factor for some mountains, atmospheric humidity or aridity can be more important climatic stresses that affect altitudinal zones. Both overall levels of precipitation and humidity influence soil moisture as well. One of the most important factors that control the lower boundary of the Encinal or forest level is the ratio of evaporation to soil moisture.\n\nThe nutrient content of soils at different elevations further complicates the demarcation of altitudinal zones. Soils with higher nutrient content, due to higher decomposition rates or greater weathering of rocks, better support larger trees and vegetation. The elevation of better soils varies with the particular mountain being studied. For example, for mountains found in the tropical rainforest regions, lower elevations exhibit fewer terrestrial species because of the thick layer of dead fallen leaves covering the forest floor. At this latitude more acidic, humose soils exist at higher elevations in the montane or subapline levels. In a different example, weathering is hampered by low temperatures at higher elevations in the Rocky Mountain of the western United States, resulting in thin coarse soils.\n\nIn addition to physical forces, biological forces may also produce zonation. For example, a strong competitor can force weaker competitors to higher or lower positions on the elevation gradient. The importance of competition is difficult to assess without experiments, which are expensive and often take many years to complete. However, there is an accumulating body of evidence that competitively dominant plants may seize the preferred locations (warmer sites or deeper soils). Two other biological factors can influence zonation: grazing and mutualism. The relative importance of these factors is also difficult to assess, but the abundance of grazing animals, and the abundance of mycorrhizal associations, suggests that these elements may influence plant distributions in significant ways.\n\nLight is another significant factor in the growth of trees and other photosynthetic vegetation. The earth’s atmosphere is filled with water vapor, particulate matter, and gases that filter the radiation coming from the sun before reaching the earth’s surface. Hence, the summits of mountains and higher elevations receive much more intense radiation than the basal plains. Along with the expected arid conditions at higher elevations, shrubs and grasses tend to thrive because of their small leaves and extensive root systems. However, high elevations also tend to have more frequent cloud cover, which compensates for some of the high intensity radiation.\n\nThe physical characteristics and relative location of the mountain itself must also be considered in predicting altitudinal zonation patterns. The Massenerhebung effect describes variation in the tree line based on mountain size and location. This effect predicts that zonation of rain forests on lower mountains may mirror the zonation expected on high mountains, but the belts occur at lower elevations. A similar effect is exhibited in the Santa Catalina Mountains of Arizona, where the basal elevation and the total elevation influence the elevation of vertical zones of vegetation.\n\nIn addition to the factors described above, there are a host of other properties that can confound predictions of altitudinal zonations. These include: frequency of disturbance (such as fire or monsoons), wind velocity, type of rock, topography, nearness to streams or rivers, history of tectonic activity, and latitude.\n\nElevation models of zonation are complicated by factors discussed above and thus the relative elevations each zone begins and ends is not tied to a specific elevation. However it is possible to split the altitudinal gradient into five main zones used by ecologists under varying names. In some cases these level follow each other with the decrease in elevation, which is called \"vegetation inversion\".\nFor detailed breakdowns of the characteristics of altitudinal zones found on different mountains, see List of life zones by region.\n\nThe most decisive biogeographic and climatic boundary along elevation gradients is the climatic high-elevation treeline. The treeline separates the montane from the alpine zone and marks the potential for tree growth, irrespective of whether trees are present or not. So when trees had been cut or burnt, and thus, are absent from the treeline, it is still in place as defined by the treeline isotherm. At the tree line, tree growth is often sparse, stunted, and deformed by wind and cold krummholz (German for \"crooked wood\"). The tree line often appears well-defined, but it can be a more gradual transition. Trees grow shorter and often at lower densities as they approach tree line, above which they cease to exist.\n\nAnimals also exhibit zonation patterns in concert with the vegetational zones described above. Invertebrates are more clearly defined into zones because they are typically less mobile than vertebrate species. Vertebrate animals often span across altitudinal zones according to the seasons and food availability. Typically animal species diversity and abundance decrease as a function of elevation above the montane zone because of the harsher environmental conditions experienced at higher elevations. Fewer studies have explored animal zonation with elevation because this correlation is less defined than the vegetation zones due to the increased mobility of animal species.\n\nThe variability of both natural and human environments has made it difficult to construct universal models to explain human cultivation in altitudinal environments. With more established roads however, the bridge between different cultures has started to shrink. Mountainous environments have become more accessible and diffusion of ideas, technology, and goods occur with more regularity. Nonetheless, altitudinal zonation caters to agricultural specialization and growing populations cause environmental degradation.\n\nHuman populations have developed agricultural production strategies to exploit varying characteristics of altitudinal zones. Elevation, climate, and soil fertility set upper limits on types of crops that can reside in each zone. Populations residing in the Andes Mountain region of South America have taken advantage of varying altitudinal environments to raise a wide variety of different crops. Two different types of adaptive strategies have been adopted within mountainous communities.\nWith improved accessibility to new farming techniques, populations are adopting more specialized strategies and moving away from generalized strategies. Many farming communities now choose to trade with communities at different elevations instead of cultivating every resource on their own because it is cheaper and easier to specialize within their altitudinal zone.\n\nPopulation growth is leading to environmental degradation in altitudinal environments through deforestation and overgrazing. The increase in accessibility of mountainous regions allows more people to travel between areas and encourage groups to expand commercial land use. Furthermore, the new linkage between mountainous and lowland populations from improved road access has contributed to worsening environmental degradation.\n\nNot all mountainous environments exhibit sudden changes in altitudinal zones. Though less common, some tropical environments show a slow continuous change in vegetation over the altitudinal gradient and thus do not form distinct vegetation zones.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2705757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2705757", "title": "Area code 246", "text": "Area code 246\n\nThe area code 246 in the North American Numbering Plan (NANP) is a composite part of the telephone numbering plan for Barbados. It is regulated by the government's Telecommunications Unit, which holds responsibility for telecommunications. The number 246 spells , a nickname for the island.\n\nDue to a long established affiliation with the NANP, telephone numbers in Barbados are often styled as \"(246) NXX-xxxx\". However, this can cause confusion with Diego Garcia which is assigned the country code 246 under the International Telecommunications Union standard E.164. As such, other international standards like E.123 advocate the inclusion of the prefix \"+1\" to indicate \"246\" is a part of the NANP.\n\nArea code 246 was created during a split from the original area code 809, which used permissive dialing from 1 July 1996 to 15 January 1997 at which time all calls placed to Barbados required the use of the prefix \"1 246\" prefix.\n\nWhen calling Barbados from elsewhere in the North American Numbering Plan (e.g. from the United States or Canada), callers dial as if undertaking regular ten-digit dialing within those countries. Callers must simply dial 1 + 246 + seven digit phone number.\n\nWhen calling to Barbados from outside the NANP (e.g. from the United Kingdom), callers must dial their international dialling prefix followed by 1 to access the North American Numbering Plan. For example, a call placed from the United Kingdom would be dialled as 00 + 1 + 246 + local seven digit phone number. Failure to include the prefix \"1\" results in accessing country calling code 246 of British Indian Ocean Territory (\"Diego Garcia\").\n\nWhen placing a phone call from Barbados, also known as HPNA, callers simply use seven-digit dialling (i.e. dialling the last seven digits of the phone number). Unlike in some other Caribbean islands, most residential landline subscribers have unlimited/un-metered rates for calling other local landlines.\n\nWhen calling to other places in the North American Numbering Plan, calls are dialed as if undertaking regular ten-digit dialing in those countries. Callers must simply dial 1 + NPA (area code) + seven digit phone number.\n\nThough usually toll-free when dialled from the US, not all 1-800, 1-888, 1-877, or 1-866 are toll-free when being dialled from Barbados, and may be treated as a toll call. If the number is not toll-free a recording will give directions of how to place a fee based call.\n\nWhen calling to areas outside the NANP (e.g. the United Kingdom), callers dial 011 + country calling code + phone number. In the case of the UK, a user would dial 011 + 44 + area code + UK phone number.\n\nIn the NANP telephone format \"1-NPA-NXX-xxxx\", the central office codes fall in the position of NXX. In 1996 the following central office numbering plan was put in place by the incumbent local exchange carrier.\n\nFollowing liberalisation of the telecommunications industry in Barbados, various central office codes were implemented for local mobile carriers. The following COs were outlined in 2004 by the Minister of Energy and Public Utilities. In most cases Barbados numbers beginning with the following central office codes do not permit incoming collect calls. This list was updated to include allocations for Ozone Wireless from 2014.\n\nOther landline central office codes which have been activated include the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33999157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33999157", "title": "Axel Sømme", "text": "Axel Sømme\n\nAxel Christian Zetlitz Sømme (April 19, 1899 – July 14, 1991) was a Norwegian educator, economist and geographer. During the 1920s, he was a political activist, magazine editor and newspaper editor.\n\nHe was born in Stavanger, Norway. His parents were Andreas Sømme (1849-1937) and Maren Sophie Berner (1858-1946). His father was a shipowner who was a grandson of Jacob Kielland (1788–1863), one of the largest merchants in Stavanger. His uncle, Jacob Kielland Sømme (1862-1950), was a noted artist. \n\nHe attended Stavanger Cathedral School graduating in 1917. He received his cand.philol. at the University of Oslo in 1924. As a student he was politically active in the Mot Dag movement and edited the magazine \"Mot Dag\" in 1921. He was the first editor of the newspaper \"Rjukan Arbeiderblad\". In this position he was sentenced to 30 days imprisonment for publishing articles encouraging the 1924 military strike.\n\nBetween 1927-29, he completed secondary studies in economics at Paris and became Dr. Philos. in 1931 on the basis on his dissertation \"La Lorraine métallurgique\". From 1925-32, Sømme was a teacher at Oslo Handelsgymnasium and then a lecturer and principal of Genèveskolen in Geneva (\"Nordisk folkehøyskole i Genève\") from 1932-35. He became a lecturer in trade geography when the Norwegian School of Economics in Bergen opened in 1936. He was appointed professor at the Norwegian School of Economics from 1948 to 1969. \n\nAmong his most important scientific works was \"Jordbrukets geografi i Norge\" which was published in two volumes (J.W. Eides Forlag, 1949 and 1954).\n\nHe was married twice. In 1927 he married Gabrielle Kielland Holst (1899-1952), the marriage dissolved in 1939.\nIn 1945, he married Johanne Wilhelmine Barclay Nitter (1904-1999).\nAxel Sømme died during 1991 in Bergen, Norway.\n\n"}
{"id": "48191577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48191577", "title": "Beaches of Warsaw", "text": "Beaches of Warsaw\n\nBeaches in Warsaw - recreational areas outlined for sunbathing in Warsaw, Masovian Voivodeship; in Poland.\n\nThe Beaches in Warsaw began to be popular with sunbathing during the interwar period of the 20th century. In around the Miedzeszyński Embankment (\"Wał Miedzeszyński\") functioned a popular beach area, this included the Beach of the Kozłowski Brothers (\"Plaża Braci Kozłowskich\") and the \"Poniatówka\" urban beach - both of which had wooden pavilions and changing rooms. The modern functional beaches in Warsaw were featured in \"National Geographic\"'s \"Top Urban Beaches in the World\".\n\nThe modern twenty first century functioning beaches in Warsaw are (from north to south):\n\n\nIn 2014, due to the increasing popularity of urban beaches the City of Warsaw launched a night tram line from the Poniatowski Bridge.\n"}
{"id": "30714362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30714362", "title": "Blue Marble Geographics", "text": "Blue Marble Geographics\n\nBlue Marble Geographics is a developer and provider of geographic information system]] software products focused on data translation. They provide software products and services for working with GIS data in different formats and for addressing the unique challenges associated with Geospatial data.\n\nBlue Marble's focus is on highly accurate mapping as evidenced by their new product line and services offering including applied geodesy training, consulting and software development.\n\nBlue Marble is a member of the Open Geospatial Consortium and TechMaine.\n\nBlue Marble's first software product, the Geographic Calculator, was developed in 1992 and released in 1993. The Geographic Calculator is a coordinate conversion library with a database of coordinate mathematical objects including projections, coordinate systems, datums, ellipsoids, linear and angular units. The tool is primarily used to translate map coordinates from one system to another. The Geographic Calculator quickly grew in popularity over that first decade and has maintained its reputation as the best coordinate conversion solution on the market. In 2004, the underlying GeoCalc library was re-written and in 2007 a new version was released as the Blue Marble Desktop.\n\n2013 saw a rebranding of the Blue Marble Desktop back to the Geographic Calculator. Blue Marble incorporated all of the functionality of the Blue Marble Desktop including the Geographic Transformer, Translator and Spatial Connect products into the new Geographic Calculator. This did away with the confusing versioning and introduced an easier-to-follow annual naming convention with one or two service pack updates between releases.\n\nThe all-in-one interface of the Geographic Calculator enables users to complete a number of geodetic and geospatial transformation functions on various types of data in the same interface with unmatched accuracy and accountability. The enterprise collaboration tools such as workspaces and network folders enable consistency and repeatability of highly accurate data translation across your organization.\n\nGlobal Mapper is a geographic information system software package currently developed by Blue Marble Geographics that runs on Microsoft Windows. Global Mapper handles both vector, raster, and elevation data, and provides viewing, conversion, and other general GIS features. Global Mapper has an active user community with a mailing list and online forums.\n\nIn 1995 the USGS was in need of a Windows viewer for their data products, so they developed the dlgv32 application for viewing their DLG (Digital Line Graph) vector data products. Between 1995 and 1998 the dlgv32 application was expanded to include support for viewing other USGS data products, including DRG (topographic maps) and DEM (digital elevation model) and SDTS-DLG and SDTS-DEM data products. The development process is described in detail in the USGS paper titled 'A Programming Exercise'.\n\nIn 1998 the USGS released the source code for dlgv32 v3.7 to the public domain. In 2001, the source code for dlgv32 was further developed by a private individual into the commercial product dlgv32 Pro v4.0 and offered for sale via the internet. Later that same year the product was renamed to Global Mapper and become a commercial product of the company Global Mapper Software LLC. The USGS was distributing a version of the software under the name dlgv32 Pro (Global Mapper).\n\nBlue Marble acquired Global Mapper, LLC at the end of 2011. Mike Childs, the original developer of Global Mapper, continues to work for Blue Marble as a lead developer.\n\nIn 2013, Blue Marble released a major version update to Global Mapper that also introduced the new Global Mapper LiDAR Module. The Global Mapper LiDAR Module offers optional enhancement to base Global Mapper application and provides numerous advanced LiDAR processing tools (e.g., automatic point cloud classification, automatic extraction of buildings, trees, and powerlines, cross-sectional viewing and point editing, custom digitizing or extraction of 3D line and area features, etc.).\n\nAs of 2018, The latest version of Global Mapper available is v19.1 \n\nOn June 22, 2016 the Global Mapper Mobile was released for iOS Devices and Android Beta on May 9, 2017.\n\nBlue Marble Geographics was established in 1993 and was originally located in Gardiner, Maine. The company founder, Jeffrey Bennett Cole, retired in 2003 and Patrick Cunningham took over as President, adding employees and re-focusing the product offering over the next few years. In 2008, they received the Governor’s Award for technology company of the year at the TechMaine technology awards showcase. Blue Marble is one of a handful of geospatial or GIS software companies to come out of Maine in the nineties. The company's founder studied at the University of Maine and like other well known GIS companies from Maine, its roots are tied to the surveying and forestry programs of the University of Maine. After years of growing, the company has moved its home office to Hallowell, Maine.\n\n"}
{"id": "30531946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30531946", "title": "Bošnjaković", "text": "Bošnjaković\n\nBošnjaković () is a family name found in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and Serbia. It may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49525731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49525731", "title": "Caribmap", "text": "Caribmap\n\nCaribmap is a non-profit online library of historical and modern maps, including topographic maps, of the Caribbean islands. Since its establishment in 1999, the site has accumulated approximately 1800 maps of the islands that have been printed since the beginning of the 16th century The purpose of the site is to allow users, such as historians and scientists, to gain detailed information, including place names, from the high resolution map scans. For this, it uses a zoomable user interface (ZUI), Deep Zoom, so that the scale of the viewed area can be changed.\n\nCaribmap is created and directed by a scientist, S. Blair Hedges, who is responsible for managing all content. It has received large donations of map images from public and private institutions such as the Branner Earth Sciences Library & Map Collections of Stanford University, the Norman B. Leventhal Map Center at the Boston Public Library, the Perry-Castañeda Library of the University of Texas at Austin, and the George A. Smathers Libraries of the University of Florida.\n\nCaribmap encompasses the geographic range of the Caribbean Sea and its islands, including those bordering the Middle and South American mainland, such as the Bay Islands of Honduras, ABC Islands (Aruba, Bonaire, and Curaçao), Trinidad, and Tobago. The Bahamas and Turks and Caicos Islands are also incorporated due to their cultural, economic, and historic links to the Caribbean islands.\n\nThe site features scans of high-resolution maps, organized by islands, which allow the capability to zoom in on details of historic or scientific importance. Map thumbnail images pertaining to that island are sorted in chronological order by the year the map was made, above the viewing area. Bibliographic information (title, year, maker, medium, size, and credit) is displayed under each map. The site also has a feature called “map tours,” focused on individual islands (currently only Jamaica), which are short videos featuring historical maps and 3D scenes from Google Earth. One demonstrated use of Caribmap, given its large number of high-resolution map images, has been quantitative historical analysis, which traces the use of toponyms (place names) through time.\n\n"}
{"id": "8295172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8295172", "title": "Cartographic labeling", "text": "Cartographic labeling\n\nCartographic labeling is a form of typography and strongly deals with form, style, weight and size of type on a map. Essentially, labeling denotes the correct way to label features (points, arcs, or polygons).\n\nIn type, form describes anything from lengths between letters to the case and color of the font. Form works well for both nominal (qualitative) and ordered (quantitative) data.\n\nItalics describe the sloping of letters setting it apart from non-italicized words (or vice versa). Using italics on a map also slightly decreases the size of the font as it shapely squeezes it around features. When introduced, the idea was to condense the text by italicizing it, thus creating more text on the pages. The slope in the font was created to mimic the flow of cursive handwriting and thus, the angles of italic letters range anywhere from 11 to 30 degree and consequently, serifs are absent.\n\nAs a general rule on maps, the smaller the point size of a font, the more condensed and difficult it becomes to read. In an example of labeling a globe, ocean features are generally italicized to give an obvious discernment. In cartographic conventions, natural features are adequate in italics such as the aforementioned hydrographic features.\n\nCase is another way of emphasizing—whether it be uppercase, lowercase or a combination of the two (or even different size points within the same case). In general, uppercase fonts denote a higher emphasis, but according to Bringhurst (1996), an uppercase initial of a word has the seniority; but the lowercase letters have the control. In other words, the strong boldness of a larger letter draws the audience into its viewpoint. The lowercase letters contain the information needed to convey further. When viewing text on maps, it is still crucial to gain the audience’s attention as a way of informing them of something other than the map(s). As for design, uppercase is much harder to read than mixed-use. In the globe example, mountain ranges should be in uppercase. When showing a larger scale, such as a region of the United States, it is useful to classify different case sizes. States should be in uppercase, with counties in small uppercase, and cities in lowercase.\n\nColor (value and hue) alterations also allow for a further emphasis on certain features. By changing the color of the font to correspond to the feature it is representing, the two become joined. If the cartographer were to label a river, the extra emphasis would be inherent if the font chosen was blue, to correspond with the blue feature (arc). On the contrary though, this is not always necessarily the case. If the cartographer chose a color of font for an ocean feature (polygon), blue would not be the obvious choice because it would appear to be washed out and thus, no emphasis. In this case, it is useful to label the feature with a more rich, bolder color (such as black font on blue polygon).\n\nThe spacing of the letters on features also gives a more appealing map-—visually speaking. By enlarging the increments between each letter of a word, the word in turn, becomes more pronounced. In the case for a long arc feature (river), to add more emphasis on the label, the letters would need to be extended or stretched. On the other hand, in some cases, the letters would have to be condensed (shortened increment gaps) to give a more proportional label for a feature.\n\nThe type style affects to overall look of the map and is adequately used to symbolize nominal (qualitative) data within the map. In general, style amounts to the use of serifs versus sans serifs. A serif is, by definition, a cross-line at the end of a stroke along a letter. On a map, the text that is chosen should be consistent. Generally, serif fonts are utilized to give a more regimented block body of text—similar to those used in traditional printing. Serifs are more widely used for historical information or a historical map.\n\nThe serif counterpart is sans serifs (meaning without serifs). Sans serif fonts are the more modern of the two fonts. But choosing one over the other requires that the audience will be able to read the text without strain. Generally, sans serifs are not for large bodies of text in print but instead, are ideal for the internet. On the same facet, sans serifs are optimal for a more-clean appearance in such places like a header, title, or legend. In map design, it’s useful to also use sans serifs for natural features.\n\nThe type weight provides a substantial amount of emphasis of the cartographer’s choosing. Weight is important because it involves the difference between bold and regular contrast. The degree of power that is increased with weight, must be proportional to the size of the letter. If not, a letter can be too intense and thus more difficult to read. Similarly, the spacing between the letters must be extended to provide adequate to read smoothly. Bold text creates direct attention to the eyes of the audience to pronounce certain information from cartographer.\n\nThe type size of fonts stresses the importance and emphasis of the intended map. Size is expressed in points through the American point system with 1 point equaling 1/72\" of vertical height. Furthermore, points also show the spacing between letters, words and lines. A larger size implies more importance or a greater relative quantity; smaller denotes less importance or less quantity. For design purposes, text using a size of less than 6 point is difficult to read. On the contraire, text that is larger than 26 point is too cumbersome for a standard-size paper format. For titles, a font larger than 10 point generally allows for a good working title. Also, it is important to use at least a 2-point difference between type sizes to allow the audience to see subtle changes.\n\nWith all of the type in order and adequately designed, the final step is the correct placement of labels. Placement describes each feature and its subsequent label(s). For area features, it is important to curve and extend the spaces to properly fill in the areas enough that the audience can discern different areas. As a cartographic convention, labels are usually as horizontal as possible with no upside-down labels. For line features, it is useful to allow the label to conform to the line pattern. Similar to a river (e.g. geographic features), the label should flow around the edges along the line being careful not to have the letters too extended. For point patterns, the minor patterns to follow include keeping labels on/in their respective features (e.g. coastal cities with labels on the land and not ocean). The major pattern for points is the placement along the point itself. The most widely accepted pattern is to start at the center and work outward towards the northeast quadrant from the point. Many studies have been researched to address the correct strategy for the placements. The point feature cartographic label placement (PFCLP) problem offers the solutions when point boxes overlap. Many software features automatically choose label placements for the cartographer, but these are not always a fail-safe option. The use of good judgment and cartographic conventions are important to gain the best placement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25955866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25955866", "title": "Claude-Joseph Drioux", "text": "Claude-Joseph Drioux\n\nAbbé Claude-Joseph Drioux (1820–1898) was a French priest, popular educator, cartographer, geographer, historian, and religious writer.\n\nDrioux was born 17 February 1820 at Bourdons, Haute-Marne. He was first priest, then professor at the seminary of Langres, \"vicaire général\", finally \"chanoine\".\n\nDrioux was the \"star author\" of the publishers Belin. The 51 school textbooks of the Abbé Drioux had a great vogue in France for over thirty years and some ran to 30 editions, \"they almost had a monopoly on the education of children of both sexes in the free institutions both primary and secondary schools of our country\" The total number of books sold exceeded one million. This author derived a steady income from Belin allowing him to purchase the Chateau de Lanty Nièvre, Bourgogne, France, former property of the Marquise de Coligny, where he died 13 May 1898.\n\nAs a religious writer and popular educator Drioux was influential not only on schoolchildren but adults in bringing the findings of German scholars to the popular French audience. His pictorial Bible (1864) and history of Rome (1876) contain many interpretations evidently sourced from contemporary German sources, but also renaissance sources such as Menochius. He perhaps independently identified the \"five brothers\" as the sons of Annas and the \"rich man\" as Caiaphas in the parable of Lazarus in Luke 16.\n\nAs a geographer Drioux worked primarily with cartographer Charles Leroy. As an editor of Latin theological works he worked with a series of co-editors.\n\n\nBibliography and notes in French\n"}
{"id": "38147325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38147325", "title": "Delaware Boundary Markers", "text": "Delaware Boundary Markers\n\nDelaware Boundary Markers is a national historic district located on the State boundary lines between Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania. The district includes 94 contributing sites along the Mason–Dixon line and includes the Transpeninsular Line, \"Post Marked West\" site, Mason–Dixon line, Tangent Line, The Arc, and The 12-Mile Circle.\n\nIt was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1975.\n"}
{"id": "673508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673508", "title": "Departments of the Republic of the Congo", "text": "Departments of the Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Republic of the Congo is divided into twelve departments (\"départements\", singular \"département\"). These departments replaced former regions (\"régions\", singular \"région\") in 2002:\nThese regions are subdivided into 86 districts and 7 communes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40280914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40280914", "title": "Die Berg Komt Er", "text": "Die Berg Komt Er\n\nDie Berg Komt Er (\"That Mountain Is Coming\") was a proposed construction in the Netherlands. The concept was to create a man-made mountain in a country famed for its generally flat landscape. It was suggested in a column by Thijs Zonneveld, whose thoughts on the idea were initially intended to be comedic. However, it quickly gained attention due to serious responses and feasibility studies.\n\nIn July 2011, Thijs Zonneveld, a journalist and semi-professional cyclist, wrote a column in NU.nl about the need for a mountain in the Netherlands. He proposed that the country should build a mountain tall and wide. Although not intended to be a serious suggestion, it quickly gained support from organisations including the Dutch Ski Association, Dutch Climbing and Mountaineering Association (NKBV), and Royal Dutch Cycling Union (KNWU).\n\nZonneveld's column suggested that there would be significant benefits to Dutch sport, noting a lack of success in ski-jumping, bobsledding, and cycling. He also wrote about the possibility of including a road with hairpin bends and an ice rink. There would be further benefits for athletes who would be able to train at high altitudes.\n\nInitial feasibility studies suggested that the construction might be possible but only if it were hollow. If a solid mountain of the proposed size were to be constructed it would take up to 7.7 billion cubic metres (2.7 billion tons) of sand. The weight of this addition to the landscape could affect ground levels for distances up to away, lowering the altitude by up to .\n\nThe required volume of materials needed for the construction of the project would be a significant barrier to its success in terms of availability and financial cost. There would also be substantial carbon dioxide emissions in the production of the materials.\n\nIn early 2012, Bartels Consulting Engineers gathered mathematicians from across Europe to investigate the potential problems that could be encountered with the construction. They met as part of the 2012 Mathematics with Industry conference in Eindhoven. They looked into the possibility that the weight of the structure might affect minor geological faults and cause earthquakes, and how the weather systems might be changed by the structure.\n\nThe Mathematics with Industry report summarises:\nA report by the Eindhoven University of Technology later in 2012 demonstrated that the proposal was not financially feasible, with potential costs reaching up to 7 trillion euros. Zonneveld at that time suggested a more modest altitude of , with the possibility of later construction to higher elevations.\n\nZonneveld suggested that there would be sufficient available space in the north-east of the Netherlands or that land could be reclaimed from the sea.\n\nAt the 2012 Mathematics with Industry conference in Eindhoven, eight potential locations were investigated, with six being ruled out. They decided that building off the coast of Zeeland or in the IJsselmeer close to Flevoland would too badly affect shipping routes particularly around Rotterdam. Air traffic from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol meant that building in the Markermeer could prove problematic.\n\nThe build would be likely to affect local ecosystems and the suggestion of construction being sited near the island of Texel was ruled out because of the environmental problems that it might cause. Creating the mountain in the sea near The Hague might amplify or change the currents around the area, contributing to coastal erosion. Though there would be the potential to harness this for use as a form of sustainable energy it was ruled out pending computer simulations.\n\nIn order to minimise the effect on existing infrastructure the team decided that building the mountain in the IJsselmeer near to the Afsluitdijk would be unwise. They therefore favoured a build in the North Sea near Bergen aan Zee or in the province of Flevoland.\n\n"}
{"id": "8148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8148", "title": "Diogo Cão", "text": "Diogo Cão\n\nDiogo Cão (), anglicised as Diogo Cam and also known as Diego Cam, was a Portuguese explorer and one of the most notable navigators of the Age of Discovery. He made two voyages sailing along the west coast of Africa in the 1480s, exploring the Congo River and the coasts of the present-day Angola and Namibia.\n\nCão was born in Vila Real (some say in Évora), in the middle of the 15th century, the illegitimate son of Álvaro Fernandes or Gonçalves Cão, fidalgo of the Royal Household, himself the illegitimate son of Gonçalo Cão. He married and had four children: Pedro Cão, Manuel Cão, André Afonso Cão, and Isabel Cão.\n\nHe was the first European known to sight and enter the Congo River and to explore the West African coast between Cape St. Catherine in Gabon and Cape Cross, almost from the equator to Walvis Bay in Namibia.\n\nWhen King John II of Portugal restarted the work of Henry the Navigator, he sent out Cão (probably around midsummer 1482) to explore the African coast south of the equator. He discovered the mouth and estuary of the Congo, probably in August 1482 and marked it with a padrão, or stone pillar erected on Shark Point, attesting to the sovereignty of Portugal. This padrão still stands to this day, albeit in ruins. He also ascended the great river for a short distance, and commenced modest commerce with the natives of the Bakongo kingdom. Cão then coasted down along the present Angola (Portuguese West Africa), and erected a second padrão, probably marking the termination of this voyage, at Cape Saint Mary (the Monte Negro of these first visitors). He returned to Lisbon by 8 April 1484, where John II ennobled him, promoting him from esquire to a knight of his household, and granted him an annuity and a coat of arms. On his return he discovered the Island of Annobón.\n\nThat Cão, on his second voyage of 1484–1486, was accompanied by Martin Behaim (as alleged on the latter's Nuremberg globe of 1492) is very doubtful. But it is known that the explorer revisited the Congo and erected two more padrão on land beyond his previous voyage. The first was at Cabo Negro, Angola, the second at Cape Cross. The Cape Cross pillar probably marked the end of his progress southward, some 1,400 kilometers. Cão ascended the Kongo River (which he thought led towards the realm of Prester John), up to the neighborhood of the site of Matadi. There, in October or November 1485, near the falls of Ielala, he left an inscription engraved on the stone which testifies of its passage and that of his men: \"Aqui chegaram os navios do esclarecido rei D.João II de Portugal - Diogo Cão, Pero Anes, Pero da Costa.\" (\"Here reached the ships of the enlightned king John II of Portugal – Diogo Cão, Pero Anes, Pero da Costa\").\n\nAccording to one authority (a legend on the 1489 map of Henricus Martellus Germanus), Cão died off Cape Cross; but João de Barros and others wrote of his return to the Kongo, and subsequent taking of a native envoy to Portugal. The four pillars set up by Cão on his two voyages have all been discovered still on their original site, and the inscriptions on two of them from Cape Santa Maria and Cape Cross, dated 1482 and 1485 respectively, are still to be read and have been printed. The Cape Cross padrão is now at Berlin (replaced on the spot by a granite facsimile); those from the Kongo estuary and the more southerly Cape Santa Maria and Cabo Negro are in the Museum of the Lisbon Geographical Society.\n\nDiogo Cão is the subject of \"Padrão\", one of the best-known poems in Fernando Pessoa's book \"Mensagem\", the only one published during the author's lifetime. He also figures strongly in the 1996 novel \"Lord of the Kongo\" by Peter Forbath.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11909942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11909942", "title": "Divided regions", "text": "Divided regions\n\nDivided regions are transnational regions, islands, etc. (i.e. areas that are known under a common name) that may have at one time been a united sovereign state but are or have been subsequently politically divided by national borders, into separate sovereign and/or administrative divisions. The later qualification includes many reorganized regions within nation states blurring the pure \"transnational\" distinction, but retaining the sense of a historic region once governed together which is significant both historically and culturally.\n\nTypically the divided parts still retain the common geographical placename, or a variation thereof, and may or may not be subject to irrendentist claims and territorial disputes. They are by their very nature situated in border areas.\n\nDivided regions frequently have close cultural, economic and transportation ties and not infrequently authorities or commissions which smooth the process of co-operative efforts across their common borders.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSamtskhe-Javakheti is a part of the Georgia with an Armenian majority that some feel is part of Armenia.\n\n"}
{"id": "54474911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54474911", "title": "Earth Summits", "text": "Earth Summits\n\nThe Earth Summits are decennial meetings of world leaders, organized since 1972 with help of the United Nations, to help defining ways to stimulate sustainable development at the global level. The aim is to bring together the best individuals and organisations humanity can bring forward from all kind of categories of life, to identify and update what are humanity's most pressing challenges, to quantify them, identify solutions and develop a plan of action not to run into a wall. This plan of action is called Agenda 21 and implemented by many local governments under the name Local Agenda 21. The plan of action is designed as a TQM - Total Quality Manual, designed smartly and open enough, so that also organisations, companies and individuals can use it as a basis for their own plan of action and guidance not to miss out on important issue; it helps speed up understanding and identifying partners by e.g. using similar wordings and symbols. The 2000-2015 Millennium Development Goals and the 2015-2030 Global Goals are results from these Earth Summits. The first summit took place in Stockholm ([Sweden]) in 1972, the second in Nairobi (Kenya) in 1982, the third in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil) in 1992 and the fourth in Johannesburg (South Africa) in 2002. Last Earth Summit, called Rio+20, also took place in Rio de Janeiro in 2012.\n\nEvidence of the development of a global culture of respect for the environment, the Earth Summits are symbolically very important as - together with the United Nations ObservancesCalendar - they aim to demonstrate the collective capacity to manage, address and bring attention to humanities most pressing challenges, global problems and affirm the need to respect ecological constraints. The 1972 summit gave birth to the United Nations Environment Program (UNEP), while the 1992 Summit launched the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), whose signatory countries have met annually since 1995.\n\nThe entry into force of an international treaty usually takes several years. This is a complex process as each country needs to complete two steps to join: signing the treaty, and then ratifying it formally. The treaty enters into force only when a sufficient number of countries have ratified it (the number varies from one treaty to another).\n\nThe signatory countries of this type of treaty organize, roughly once a year, a conference of the parties (COP). Before each conference there is a preparatory meeting called the Subsidiary Body on Scientific, Technical and Technological Advice (SBSTTA) where governments negotiate the technical details of the treaty. The process is similar for the Earth Summit, which includes a series of preparatory pre-conferences.\n\n"}
{"id": "14506604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14506604", "title": "Eastern Gemini Seamount", "text": "Eastern Gemini Seamount\n\nThe Eastern Gemini Seamount, also known as Oscostar, is a seamount in the southwestern Pacific Ocean, about halfway between Vanuatu's Tanna and Matthew Islands. The only recorded eruption from Eastern Gemini was observed by a passing ship on February 18, 1996 when bursts of very dark water were observed.\n\n"}
{"id": "321382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321382", "title": "Energy flow (ecology)", "text": "Energy flow (ecology)\n\nIn ecology, energy flow, also called the calorific flow, refers to the flow of energy through a food chain, and is the focus of study in ecological energetics. In an ecosystem, ecologists seek to quantify the relative importance of different component species and feeding relationships.\n\nA general energy flow scenario follows:\n\nThe energy is passed on from trophic level to trophic level and each time about 90% of the energy is lost, with some being lost as heat into the environment (an effect of respiration) and some being lost as incompletely digested food (egesta). Therefore, primary consumers get about 10% of the energy produced by autotrophs, while secondary consumers get 1% and tertiary consumers get 0.1%. This means the top consumer of a food chain receives the least energy, as a lot of the food chain's energy has been lost between trophic levels. This loss of energy at each level limits typical food chains to only four to six links.\n\nEcological energetics appears to have grown out of the Age of Enlightenment and the concerns of the Physiocrats. It began in the works of Sergei Podolinsky in the late 1800s, and subsequently was developed by the Soviet ecologist Vladmir Stanchinsky, the Austro-American Alfred J. Lotka, and American limnologists, Raymond Lindeman and G. Evelyn Hutchinson. It underwent substantial development by Howard T. Odum and was applied by systems ecologists, and radiation ecologists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7487953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7487953", "title": "GSHHG", "text": "GSHHG\n\nGSHHG (Global Self-consistent, Hierarchical, High-resolution Geography Database; formerly \"Global Self-consistent, Hierarchical, High-resolution Shoreline Database\" (\"GSHHS\")) is a high-resolution shoreline data set amalgamated from two data bases (the CIA world database WDBII, and the World Vector Shoreline database) in the public domain. The data have undergone extensive processing and are free of internal inconsistencies such as erratic points and crossing segments. The shorelines are constructed entirely from hierarchically arranged closed polygons. The four-level hierarchy is as follows: seashore, lakes, islands within lakes, ponds within islands within lakes.\n\nThe data can be used to simplify data searches and data selections, or to study the statistical characteristics of shorelines and land-masses. It comes with access software and routines to facilitate decimation based on a standard line-reduction algorithm.\n\nGSHHS is developed and maintained by Dr. Paul Wessel at the University of Hawai'i, and Dr. Walter H. F. Smith at the NOAA Laboratory for Satellite Altimetry.\n\n\n\n\n\"This article contains public domain text created by the U.S. Federal government, taken from the NOAA website at \"\n"}
{"id": "73247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=73247", "title": "Geography of Cuba", "text": "Geography of Cuba\n\nCuba is an island nation in the Caribbean Sea. Cuba has an official area (land area) of . Its area is including coastal and territorial waters. The main island (Cuba) has of coastline and of land borders—all figures including the United States territory at Guantánamo Bay, where the U.S. Navy's Guantanamo Bay Naval Base is located.\n\nCuba lies west of the North Atlantic Ocean, east of the Gulf of Mexico, south of the Straits of Florida, northwest of the Windward Passage, and northeast of the Yucatán Channel. The main island (Cuba) makes up most of the land area .\n\nThe island is long and across its widest points and across its narrowest points. The largest island outside the main island is the Isla de la Juventud (Isle of Youth) in the southwest, with an area of .\n\nCuba is located west of Haiti across the Windward Passage, south of the Bahamas, south of Florida, east of Mexico, and north of Jamaica. It was made in three stages.\n\nCuba is the largest country by land area in the Caribbean. Its main island is the seventeenth-largest island in the world by land area. The island rises between the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean. It is bordered on the north by the Straits of Florida, on the northeast by Nicholas Channel and the Old Bahama Channel. The southern part is bounded by the Windward Passage and the Cayman Trench, while the southwest lies in the Caribbean Sea. To the west, it reaches to the Yucatán Channel, and the northwest is open to the Gulf of Mexico.\n\nMore than 4,000 islands and cays are found in the surrounding sea and bays. The southern coast includes such archipelagos as Jardines de la Reina and the Canarreos. The northeastern shore is lined by the Sabana-Camagüey Archipelago, which includes Jardines del Rey and is composed of approximately 2,517 cays and islands. The Colorados Archipelago is developed on the north-western coast.\n\nTerrain is mostly flat to rolling plains, with rugged hills and mountains in the southeast. The lowest point is the Caribbean Sea at 0 m (sea level) and the highest point is Pico Turquino at , part of the Sierra Maestra mountain range, located in the southeast of the island.\n\nOther mountain ranges are Sierra Cristal in the southeast, Escambray Mountains in the center of the island, and Sierra del Rosario in the northwest. White sand beaches (most notably in Varadero), as well as mangroves and marshes can be found in the coastal area. The largest is the Zapata Swamp, with over .\n\nCuba has negligible inland water area. The largest natural water mirror is Laguna de Leche at , while the man-made Zaza Reservoir, at , is the largest inland water surface by area in the country.\n\nCuba makes maritime claims that include a territorial sea of and an exclusive economic zone of .\n\nExtreme points in Cuba are:\n\nNatural resources include cobalt, nickel, iron ore, copper, salt, timber, silica, oil and petroleum. At one time, the whole island was covered with forests and there are still many cedar (\"Cedrela odorata\"), chechem (\"Metopium brownei\"), mahogany (\"Swietenia mahagoni\"), and other valuable trees. Large areas were cleared to grow more sugarcane, and so few trees remained that timber had to be imported.\n\nThe most important Cuban mineral economic resource is nickel. Cuba has the second largest nickel reserves in the world after Russia. Sherritt International, a Canadian energy company, operates a large nickel mining facility in Moa, Cuba. Another leading mineral resource is cobalt, a byproduct of nickel mining operations. Cuba ranks as the fifth largest producer of refined cobalt in the world.\n\nPetroleum is extracted on Cuba's northern shore, in the provinces of La Habana and Matanzas. Recent petroleum exploration has revealed that the North Cuba Basin could produce approximately to of petroleum. , Cuba has now started to test-drill these locations for possible exploitation. The petroleum is of low quality, and used for energy generation only.\n\nSugarcane was the most important part of the economy in Cuba's history, and is still grown on large areas. Extensive irrigation systems are developed in the south of Sancti Spíritus Province. Tobacco, used for some of the world's cigars, is grown especially in the Pinar del Río Province.\nCuba's climate is tropical savanna in the Koppen Climate classification. The dry season lasts from November to April and the rainy season from May to October. \n\nCuba is an archipelago of islands located in the Caribbean Sea, with the geographic coordinates 21°3N, 80°00W. Cuba is the principal island, which is surrounded by four main groups of islands. These are the Colorados, the Sabana-Camagüey, the Jardines de la Reina and the Canarreos. The main island of Cuba constitutes most of the nation's land area or and is the seventeenth-largest island in the world by land area. The second largest island in Cuba is the Isla de la Juventud (Isle of Youth) in the southwest, with an area of . Cuba has a total land area of .\n\nThe main island consists mostly of flat to rolling plains. At the southeastern end is the Sierra Maestra, a range of steep mountains whose highest point is the Pico Real del Turquino at . The climate is tropical, though moderated by trade winds. In general (with local variations), there is a drier season from November to April, and a rainier season from May to October. The average temperature is in January and in July.\n\nCuba lies in the path of hurricanes, and these destructive storms are most common in September and October. Havana is the largest city and capital; other major cities include Santiago de Cuba and Camagüey. Better known smaller towns include Baracoa which was the first Spanish settlement on Cuba, Trinidad, a UNESCO world heritage site, and Bayamo.\n\nCuba is divided into 15 Provinces and one special municipality (Isla de la Juventud). The provinces are further subdivided into level 3 subdivisions, called municipalities (), of which there are 168 following the 2010 administrative redistribution.\n\n"}
{"id": "10709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10709", "title": "Geography of Finland", "text": "Geography of Finland\n\nThe geography of Finland is characterized by its northern position, its ubiquitous landscapes of intermingled boreal forests and lakes and its low population density. Finland can be divided into three areas: archipelagoes and coastal lowlands, a slightly higher central lake plateau and uplands to north and northeast. Bordering the Baltic Sea, Gulf of Bothnia, and Gulf of Finland, as well as Sweden, Norway, and Russia, Finland is the northernmost country in the European Union. Most of the population and agricultural resources are concentrated in the south. Northern and eastern Finland are sparsely populated containing vast wilderness areas. Taiga forest is the dominant vegetation type. \n\nFinland's total area is . Of this area 10% is water, 69% forest, 8% cultivated land and 13% other. Finland is the eighth largest country in Europe after Russia, France, Ukraine, Spain, Sweden, Norway and Germany.\n\nAs a whole, the shape of Finland's boundaries resembles a figure of a one-armed human. In Finnish, parallels are drawn between the figure and the national personification of Finland – Finnish Maiden (\"Suomi-neito\") – and the country as a whole can be referred in the Finnish language by her name. Even in official context the area around Enontekiö in northwestern part of the country between Sweden and Norway can be referred to as the \"Arm\" (\"käsivarsi\"). After the Continuation War Finland lost major land areas to Russia in the Moscow Armistice of 1944, and the figure was said to have lost the other of her arms, as well as a hem of her \"skirt\".\n\nThe bedrock of Finland belong to the Baltic Shield and was formed by a succession of orogenies in Precambrian time. The oldest rocks of Finland, those of Archean age, are found in the east and north. These rocks are chiefly granitoids and migmatitic gneiss. Rocks in central and western Finland originated or came to place during the Svecokarelian orogeny. Following this last orogeny Rapakivi granites intruded various locations of Finland during the Mesoproterozoic and Neoproterozoic, specially at Åland and the southeast. So-called Jotnian sediments occur usually together with Rapakivi granites. The youngest rocks in Finland are those found in the northwestern arm which belong to Scandinavian Caledonides that assembled in Paleozoic times. During the Caledonian orogeny Finland was likely a sunken foreland basin covered by sediments, subsequent uplift and erosion would have eroded all of these sediments.\n\nAbout one third of Finland lies below 100 m, and about two thirds lies under 200 m. Finland can be divided into three topographical areas; the coastal landscapes, the interior lake plateau also known as Finnish lake district and Upland Finland. The coastal landscapes are made up mostly of plains below 20 m. These plains tilt gently towards the sea so that where its irregularities surpasses sea-level groups is islands like the Kvarken Archipelago or the Åland Islands are found. Åland Islands is connected to the Finnish mainland by a shallow submarine plateau that does not exceed 20 m in depth. Next to the Gulf of Bothnia the landscape of Finland is extremely flat with height differences no larger than 50 m. This region called the Ostrobothnian Plain extends inland about 100 km and constitute the largest plain in the Nordic countries. \n\nThe interior interior lake plateau is dominated by undulating hilly terrain with valley to top height differences of 100 or less and occasionally up to 200 m. Only the area around the lakes Pielinen and Päijänne stand with a subtly more pronounced relief. The relief of the interior lake plateau bears some resemblance to the Swedish Norrland terrain. Upland Finland and areas higher than 200 m are found mostly in the north and east of the country. A limited number of hills and mountains exceed 500 m in height in these regions. Inselberg plains are common in the northern half of the country. In the far north hills reach 200 to 400 m and the landscape is a Förfjäll (Fore-fell). Only the extreme northwest contain a more dramatic mountain landscape. \n\nThe subdued landscape of Finland is the result of protracted erosion that has leveled down ancient mountain massifs into near-flat landforms called peneplains. The last major leveling event resulted in the formation of the Sub-Cambrian peneplain in Late Neoproterozoic time. While Finland has remained very close to sea-level since the formation of this last peneplain some further relief was formed by a slight uplift resulting in the carving of valleys by rivers. The slight uplift does also means that at parts the uplifted peneplain can be traced as summit accordances. The Quaternary ice ages resulted in the erosion of weak rock and loose materials by glaciers. When the ice masses retreated eroded depressions turned into lakes. Fractures in Finland's bedrock were particularly affected by weathering and erosion, leaving as result trace straight sea and lake inlets. \n\nExcept a few rivers along the coasts most rivers in Finland drain at some stage into one or more lakes. The drainage basins drain into various directions. Much of Finland drain into the Gulf of Bothnia including the country's largest and longest rivers, Kokemäenjoki and Kemijoki respectively. Finland's largest lake drain by Vuoksi River into Lake Ladoga in Russia. Upland Finland in the east drain east across Russian Republic of Karelia into the White Sea. In the northeast Lake Inari discharges by Paatsjoki into Barents Sea in the Arctic. \n\nThe ice sheet that covered Finland intermittently during the Quaternary grew out from the Scandinavian Mountains. During the last deglaciation the first parts of Finland to became ice-free, the southeastern coast, did so slightly prior to the Younger Dryas cold-spell 12,700 years before present (BP). The retreat of the ice cover occurred simultaneously from the north-east, the east and southeast. The retreat was fastest from the southeast resulting in the lower course of Tornio being the last part of Finland to be deglaciated. Finally by 10,100 years BP the ice cover had all but left Finland to concentrate in Sweden and Norway before fading away.\n\nAs the ice sheet became thinner and retreated the land begun to rise by effect of isostacy. Much of Finland was under water when the ice retreated and was gradually uplifted in a process that continues today. Albeit not all areas were drowned at the same time it is estimated at time or another about 62% has been under water. Depending on location in Finland the ancient shoreline reached different maximum heights. In southern Finland 150 to 160 m, in central Finland about 200 m and in eastern Finland up to 220 m.\n\nLatitude is the principal influence on Finland's climate. Because of Finland's northern location, winter is the longest season. Only in the south coast is summer as long as winter. On the average, winter lasts from early December to mid March in the archipelago and the southwestern coast and from early October to early May in Lapland. This means that southern portions of the country are snow-covered about three to four months of the year and the northern, about seven months. The long winter causes about half of the annual of precipitation in the north to fall as snow. Precipitation in the south amounts to about annually. Like that of the north, it occurs all through the year, though not so much of it is snow.\n\nThe Atlantic Ocean to the west and the Eurasian continent to the east interact to modify the climate of the country. The warm waters of the Gulf Stream and the North Atlantic Drift Current, which warm Norway and Sweden, also warm Finland. Westerly winds bring the warm air currents into the Baltic areas and to the country's shores, moderating winter temperatures, especially in the south. These winds, because of clouds associated with weather systems accompanying the westerlies, also decrease the amount of sunshine received during the summer. By contrast, the continental high pressure system situated over the Eurasian continent counteracts the maritime influences, occasionally causing severe winters and high temperatures in the summer.\n\nThe highest ever recorded temperature is (Liperi, 29 July 2010). The lowest, (Kittilä, 28 January 1999). The annual middle temperature is relatively high in the southwestern part of the country (), with quite mild winters and warm summers, and low in the northeastern part of Lapland ().\n\nTemperature extremes for every month:\n\nExtreme highs:\n\nExtreme lows:\n\nArea:\n\"total:\"\n\n\"land:\"\n\n\"water:\"\nArea – comparative:\nslightly smaller than Germany, Montana, and Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nLand boundaries:\n\"total:\"\n\n\"border countries:\"\nNorway , Sweden , Russia \nCoastline:\nMaritime claims:\n\"territorial sea:\"\n, in the Gulf of Finland; there is a stretch of international waters between Finnish and Estonian claims; Bogskär has separate internal waters and 3 nmi of territorial waters\n\"contiguous zone:\"\n\n\"exclusive fishing zone:\"\n\"continental shelf:\"\n\nElevation extremes:\n\"lowest point:\"\nBaltic Sea 0 m\n\"highest point:\"\nHaltitunturi \n\nNatural resources:\ntimber, iron ore, copper, lead, zinc, chromite, nickel, gold, silver, limestone\n\nLand use:\n\"arable land:\"\n7.40%\n\"permanent crops:\"\n0.01%\n\"other:\"\n92.59% (2012)\n\nIrrigated land:\n685.8 km² (2010)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n110 km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n<br> \"total:\"\n1.63 km/yr (25%/72%/3%)\n<br> \"per capita:\"\n308.9 m/yr (2005)\n\nNatural hazards:\nCold periods in winter pose a threat to the unprepared.\n\nEnvironment – current issues:\nair pollution from manufacturing and power plants contributing to acid rain; water pollution from industrial wastes, agricultural chemicals; habitat loss threatens wildlife populations\n\nEnvironment – international agreements:\n\"party to:\"\nAir Pollution, Air Pollution-Nitrogen Oxides, Air Pollution-Sulphur 85, Air Pollution-Sulphur 94, Air Pollution-Volatile Organic Compounds, Antarctic-Environmental Protocol, Antarctic Treaty, Biodiversity, Climate Change, Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Marine Life Conservation, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution, Tropical Timber 83, Tropical Timber 94, Wetlands, Whaling, Air Pollution–Persistent Organic Pollutants (signed 2001, ratified 2002), Climate Change–Kyoto Protocol (signed May 1998, ratified together with 14 other EU countries May 31, 2002).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46696410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46696410", "title": "Gunnar Hoppe", "text": "Gunnar Hoppe\n\nErnst Gunnar Hoppe was a Swedish geographer and Quaternary geologist. He became a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1964. At \"Stockholms högskola\" (as Stockholm University was known before it was granted university status in 1960) he succeeded Hans Wilhelmsson Ahlmann as professor of geography in 1954, holding that position until 1980. He was rector of Stockholm University from 1974 to 1978. In 2004, he obtained an honorary doctorate from the University of Iceland. Hoppe also was a member of the Bavarian Academy of Sciences and Humanities, the Academy of Sciences Leopoldina, Academia Europaea and the Polish Academy of Sciences.\n"}
{"id": "26949906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26949906", "title": "Island range", "text": "Island range\n\nAn island range is a mountain range that exists in total or almost total isolation from a larger chain of ranges and sub-ranges. From a distance on the plains, these ranges appear as \"islands\" of higher ground. They are often described as islands of mountainous land because they exist in the \"sea\" of lower elevation and flatter prairie country; many examples are found in the northern Rocky Mountains of the United States. Island ranges include the Big Snowy Mountains of east-central Montana, the Crazy Mountains of south-central Montana, or the Wichita Mountains of southwestern Oklahoma. Island ranges, due to their isolation, often have animal and/or plant species or subspecies found nowhere else. \n\n"}
{"id": "302993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302993", "title": "John Aubrey", "text": "John Aubrey\n\nJohn Aubrey (12 March 1626 – 7 June 1697) was an English antiquary, natural philosopher and writer. He is perhaps best known as the author of the \"Brief Lives\", his collection of short biographical pieces. He was a pioneer archaeologist, who recorded (often for the first time) numerous megalithic and other field monuments in southern England, and who is particularly noted as the discoverer of the Avebury henge monument. The Aubrey holes at Stonehenge are named after him, although there is considerable doubt as to whether the holes that he observed are those that currently bear the name. He was also a pioneer folklorist, collecting together a miscellany of material on customs, traditions and beliefs under the title \"Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme\". He set out to compile county histories of both Wiltshire and Surrey, although both projects remained unfinished. His \"Interpretation of Villare Anglicanum\" (also unfinished) was the first attempt to compile a full-length study of English place-names. He had wider interests in applied mathematics and astronomy, and was friendly with many of the greatest scientists of the day.\n\nFor much of the 19th and 20th centuries, thanks largely to the popularity of \"Brief Lives\", Aubrey was regarded as little more than an entertaining but quirky, eccentric and credulous gossip. Only in the 1970s did the full breadth and innovation of his scholarship begin to be more widely appreciated. He published little in his lifetime, and many of his most important manuscripts (for the most part preserved in the Bodleian Library) remain unpublished, or published only in partial form.\n\nAubrey was born at Easton Piers or Percy, near Kington St Michael, Wiltshire, to a long-established and affluent gentry family with roots in the Welsh Marches. His grandfather, Isaac Lyte, lived at Lytes Cary Manor, Somerset, now owned by the National Trust. Richard Aubrey, his father, owned lands in Wiltshire and Herefordshire. For many years an only child, he was educated at home with a private tutor, he was \"melancholy\" in his solitude. His father was not intellectual, preferring field sports (hunting) to learning. Aubrey read such books as came his way, including Bacon's \"Essays\", and studied geometry in secret. He was educated at the Malmesbury grammar school under Robert Latimer. (Latimer had numbered the philosopher Thomas Hobbes among his earlier pupils, and Aubrey first met Hobbes, whose biography he would later write, at Latimer's house.) He then studied at the grammar school at Blandford Forum, Dorset.\n\nHe entered Trinity College, Oxford, in 1642, but his studies were interrupted by the English Civil War. His earliest antiquarian work dates from this period in Oxford. In 1646 he became a student of the Middle Temple. He spent a pleasant time at Trinity in 1647, making friends among his Oxford contemporaries, and collecting books. He spent much of his time in the country, and in 1649 he first discovered the megalithic remains at Avebury, which he later mapped and discussed in his important antiquarian work \"Monumenta Britannica\". He was to show Avebury to Charles II at the King's request in 1663. His father died in 1652, leaving Aubrey large estates, but with them some complicated debts.\n\nBlessed with charm, generosity of spirit and enthusiasm, Aubrey went on to become acquainted with many of the most celebrated writers, scientists, politicians and aristocrats of his day, as well as an extraordinary breadth of less well-placed individuals: booksellers, merchants, the royal seamstress, mathematicians and instrument makers. He claimed that his memory was \"not tenacious\" by 17th-century standards, but from the early 1640s he kept thorough (if haphazard) notes of observations in natural philosophy, his friends' ideas, and antiquities. He also began to write \"Lives\" of scientists in the 1650s. In 1659 he was recruited to contribute to a collaborative county history of Wiltshire, leading to his unfinished collections on the antiquities and the natural history of the county. His erstwhile friend and fellow-antiquary Anthony Wood predicted that he would one day break his neck while running downstairs in haste to interview some retreating guest or other. Aubrey was an apolitical Royalist, who enjoyed the innovations characteristic of the Interregnum period while deploring the rupture in traditions and the destruction of ancient buildings brought about by civil war and religious change. He drank the King's health in Interregnum Herefordshire, but with equal enthusiasm attended meetings in London of the republican Rota Club.\n\nIn 1663 Aubrey became a member of the Royal Society. He lost estate after estate due to lawsuits, till in 1670 he parted with his last piece of property and ancestral home, Easton Piers. From this time he was dependent on the hospitality of his numerous friends; in particular, Sir James Long, 2nd Baronet and his wife Lady Dorothy of Draycot House, Wiltshire. In 1667 he had made the acquaintance of Anthony Wood at Oxford, and when Wood began to gather materials for his \"Athenae Oxonienses\", Aubrey offered to collect information for him. From time to time he forwarded memoranda in a uniquely casual, epistolary style, and in 1680 he began to promise the work \"Minutes for Lives,\" which Wood was to use at his discretion.\n\nAubrey died of an apoplexy while travelling, in June 1697, and was buried in the churchyard of St Mary Magdalen, Oxford.\n\nAubrey approached the work of the biographer much as his contemporary scientists had begun to approach the work of empirical research by the assembly of vast museums and small collection cabinets. Collating as much information as he could, he left the task of verification largely to Wood, and thereafter to posterity. As a hanger-on in great houses, he had little time and little inclination for systematic work, and he wrote the \"Lives\" in the early morning while his hosts were sleeping off the effects of the night before. These texts were, as Aubrey entitled them, \"Schediasmata\", \"pieces written extempore, on the spur of the moment\". Time after time, he leaves marks of omission in the form of dashes and ellipses for dates and facts, inserting fresh information whenever it is presented to him. The margins of his notebooks are dotted with notes-to-self, most frequently the Latin \"quaere\". This exhortation, to \"go and find out\" is often followed. In his life of Thomas Harcourt, Aubrey notes that one Roydon, a brewer living in Southwark, was reputed to be in possession of Harcourt's petrified kidney: \"I have seen it\", he writes approvingly; \"he much values it\".\n\nAubrey himself valued the evidence of his own eyes above all, and he took great pains to ensure that, where possible, he noted not only the final resting places of people, but also of their portraits and papers. Though his work has frequently been accused of inaccuracy, this charge is misguided. In most cases, Aubrey simply wrote what he had seen, or heard. When transcribing hearsay, he displays a careful approach to the ascription of sources. For example, in his life of Thomas Chaloner (who, Aubrey notes, was himself fond of spreading rumours in the concourse of Westminster Hall, coming back after lunch to find them changed), he recorded an inaccurate and bawdy anecdote about Chaloner's death, but subsequently found it to be in fact about James Chaloner. Aubrey let the initial story stand in his text, while highlighting the error in a marginal note. A number of similar occurrences suggest that he was interested not only in the oral history he was noting down, but in the very processes of transmission and corruption by which it was formed.\n\nIn 1680, Aubrey began work on his collection of biographical sketches, which he entitled \"Schediasmata: Brief Lives\". He presented them to Anthony Wood in 1681 but continued to work on them until 1693, when he deposited his manuscripts (in three folio volumes) in the Ashmolean Museum: they are now in the Bodleian Library, as MSS Aubrey 6–8.\n\nAs private, manuscript texts, the \"Lives\" were able to contain the richly controversial material which is their chief interest today, and Aubrey's chief contribution to the formation of modern biographical writing. When he allowed Anthony Wood to use the texts, however, he entered the caveat that much of the content of the Lives was \"not fitt to be let flie abroad\" while the subjects and the author were still living.\n\nAubrey's relationship with Wood was to become increasingly fraught. Aubrey asked Wood to be \"my index expurgatorius\": a reference to the Church's list of banned books, which Wood seems to have taken not as a warning, but as a licence to simply extract pages of notes to paste into his own proofs. In 1692, Aubrey complained bitterly that Wood had mutilated forty pages of his manuscript, perhaps for fear of a libel case. Wood was eventually prosecuted for insinuations against the judicial integrity of the school of Clarendon. One of the two statements called in question was founded on information provided by Aubrey and this may explain the estrangement between the two antiquaries and the ungrateful account that Wood gives of Aubrey's character. It is now famous: \"a shiftless person, roving and magotie-headed, and sometimes little better than crased. And being exceedingly credulous, would stuff his many letters sent to A. W. with folliries and misinformations, which would sometimes guid him into the paths of errour\".\n\nA large part of the \"Lives\" was published in 1813 as \"Letters Written by Eminent Persons in the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries\". A near-complete transcript, \"Brief Lives, Chiefly of Contemporaries, Set Down by John Aubrey, Between the Years 1669 and 1696\", was edited for the Clarendon Press in 1898 by the Rev. Andrew Clark. This remained the standard edition for scholarly use for many years, but (from a modern perspective) was flawed by the number of excisions Clark had made in the interests of \"decency\". In the 20th century, a number of more popular editions appeared, which often included the expurgated passages, but were in other respects far more selective: these included versions edited by John Collier (under the title \"The Scandal and Credulities of John Aubrey\"; 1931), Anthony Powell (1949), Oliver Lawson Dick (1949), Richard Barber (1975), and John Buchanan-Brown (2000; with an introduction by Michael Hunter). The most scholarly and complete edition, and now the standard edition for reference purposes, is Kate Bennett (ed.), \"Brief Lives with An Apparatus for the Lives of our English Mathematical Writers\" (2 volumes, Oxford, 2015), which was described on publication by Michael Hunter as \"the edition we have been waiting for\".\n\nThe \"Lives\" present a number of difficult editorial problems as to what should be included or excluded, and how best to present the material. A controversial book for its time, \"Lives\" bluntly mocked the scandalous lives of eminent figures. For instance, Aubrey wrote of John Milton: \"“His complexion exceeding faire—he was so faire that they called him the Lady of Christ’s College.” He wrote of William Butler: \"“The Dr. lying at the Savoy in London, next the water side where was a balcony look’t into the Thames, a patient came to him that was grievously tormented with an ague. The Dr. orders a boat to be in readiness under his window, and discoursed with the patient (a gent) in the balcony, when on a signal given, 2 or 3 lusty fellows came behind the gent, and threw him a matter of 20 feet into the Thames. This surprise absolutely cured him.” Of Ben Jonson: “He lies buried in the north aisle in the path of square stone… with this inscription only on him, in a pavement square of blue marble about 14” square; O RARE BEN JONSON.” Of William Shakespeare: “His comedies will remain wit as long as the English tongue is understood, for that he handles mores hominum [the ways of mankind]. Now our present writers reflect so much on particular persons and coxcombeities that twenty years hence they will not be understood.” Aubrey also wrote of Francis Bacon that \"he was a Pederast.\"\n\nAt somewhat greater length, Aubrey also wrote a life of the philosopher Thomas Hobbes (author of \"Leviathan\"), entitled \"The Life of Mr Thomas Hobbes of Malmesbury\": this is now Bodleian MS Aubrey 9. It is often grouped with the \"Brief Lives\", but is really a separate and self-contained work. It served as the basis for Richard Blackburne's Latin biography, \"Vitae Hobbianae auctarium\", published in 1681. The life of Hobbes was included in Clark's 1898 edition of \"Brief Lives\", but not in Bennett's 2015 edition.\n\nThe \"Monumenta Britannica\" was Aubrey's principal collection of archaeological material, written over some thirty years between about 1663 and 1693. It falls into four parts: (1) \"Templa Druidum\", a discussion of supposed \"druidic\" temples, notably Avebury and Stonehenge; (2) \"Chorographia Antiquaria\", a survey of other early urban and military sites, including Roman towns, \"camps\" (hillforts), and castles; (3) a review of other archaeological remains, including sepulchral monuments, roads, coins and urns; and (4) a series of more analytical pieces, including four exercises attempting to chart the chronological stylistic evolution of handwriting, medieval architecture, costume, and shield-shapes. Of these last, the essay on architecture, \"Chronologia Architectonica\", written in 1671, was the most detailed, and (although in its unpublished state it remained little known) is now regarded as a highly perceptive milestone in the development of architectural history.\n\nThe manuscript of \"Monumenta Britannica\" is now Bodleian MSS Top.Gen.c.24 and 25. An edition of the first three parts (reproduced, following unorthodox editing principles, partly in facsimile, and partly in printed transcript) was published by John Fowles and Rodney Legg in two volumes in 1980–82. This edition has, however, been criticised for doing Aubrey \"less than justice\" on various grounds: for a failure to consolidate what were essentially drafts and working notes into a coherent whole, for silent omissions and rearrangements, for inadequate and occasionally inaccurate annotation, and for the omission of the important fourth part of the work.\n\nAubrey began work on compiling material for a natural historical and antiquarian study of Wiltshire in 1656. Independently, in 1659, a self-appointed committee of Wiltshire gentry determined that a county history should be produced on the model of William Dugdale's \"Antiquities of Warwickshire\". It was agreed that Aubrey would deal with the northern division of the county.\n\nHe chose to divide the work into two separate projects, on the antiquities and the natural history of the county respectively. The work on the antiquities (which he entitled \"Hypomnemata Antiquaria\") was closely modelled on Dugdale, and was largely finished by 1671: Aubrey deposited his draft in the Ashmolean Museum in two manuscript volumes. Unfortunately, one of these was withdrawn by his brother in 1703 and subsequently lost. He then turned to the county's natural history. Some of his interim observations were read to the Royal Society in 1668 and 1675–6. In 1685 Aubrey recast the work, now modelling it on Robert Plot's \"Natural History of Oxford-shire\" (published in 1677); and it was effectively finished by 1690–91, when he transcribed a fair copy. Shortly afterwards the Royal Society commissioned another transcript, at a cost of £7. In 1693 Aubrey asked his brother William Aubrey and Thomas Tanner to bring the project to completion, but despite their best intentions they failed to do so.\n\nThe manuscript of the \"Naturall Historie\" is now Bodleian MSS Aubrey 1 and 2. The Royal Society's copy, which includes material (mainly on supernatural phenomena) that Aubrey afterwards removed from his own manuscript, is now Royal Society MS 92. The surviving manuscript of the \"Antiquities\" is now Bodleian MS Aubrey 3. A highly selective edition of the \"Naturall Historie\" was published by John Britton in 1847 for the Wiltshire Topographical Society. The \"Antiquities\" were published (again, with certain omissions) by John Edward Jackson in 1862 as \"Wiltshire: the Topographical Collections of John Aubrey\".\n\n\nIn 1673, the royal cosmographer and cartographer John Ogilby, planning a national atlas and chorography of Britain, licensed Aubrey to undertake a survey of Surrey. Aubrey carried out the work, but in the event Ogilby's project was curtailed, and he did not use the material. Aubrey, however, continued to add to his manuscript until 1692.\n\nThe manuscript is now Bodleian MS Aubrey 4. In a much-revised form (with both additions and excisions) it was published by Richard Rawlinson as the \"Natural History and Antiquities of Surrey\" in five volumes in 1718–19.\n\nThe \"Remaines of Gentilisme and Judaisme\" was Aubrey's collection of material on customs, traditions, ceremonies, beliefs, old wives' tales and rhymes—or what today would be termed folklore. It was compiled over many years, but written up between 1687 and 1689.\n\nThe manuscript came into the hands of White Kennett, and as a result it is not with Aubrey's other collections in the Bodleian: it is in the British Library, as Lansdowne MS 231. An edition was published by James Britten for the Folklore Society in 1881. It was more satisfactorily re-edited in 1972 by John Buchanan-Brown.\n\nAubrey's \"Interpretation of Villare Anglicanum\" (its preface dated 31 October 1687) was the first attempt to devote a work entirely to the subject of English place-names. It is, however, unfinished (or, as Gillian Fellows-Jensen observes, \"hardly begun\"). Aubrey compiled a list of some 5,000 place-names, but managed to provide derivations for only a relatively small proportion of them: many are correct, but some are wildly wrong. The manuscript is now Bodleian MS Aubrey 5.\n\nThe only work published by Aubrey in his lifetime was his \"Miscellanies\" (1696; reprinted with additions in 1721), a collection of 21 short chapters on the theme of \"hermetick philosophy\" (i.e. supernatural phenomena and the occult), including \"Omens\", \"Prophesies\", \"Transportation in the Air\", \"Converse with Angels and Spirits\", \"Second-Sighted Persons\", etc. Its contents mainly comprised documented reports of supernatural manifestations. The work did much to bolster Aubrey's posthumous reputation as a superstitious and credulous eccentric.\n\nAubrey's papers also included \"Architectonica Sacra\"; and \"Erin Is God\" (notes on ecclesiastical antiquities).\n\nHis \"Adversaria Physica\" was a scientific commonplace book, which by 1692 amounted to a folio \"an inch thick\". It is lost, although extracts have survived in the form of copies.\n\nHe wrote two plays, both comedies intended for Thomas Shadwell. The first has not survived; the second, \"Countrey Revell\", remained unfinished.\n\nIn 1967, English director Patrick Garland created a one-man show, \"Brief Lives\", based on Dick's edition of Aubrey's work. Starring Roy Dotrice, it became the most successful one-man production ever seen, with Dotrice giving over 1800 performances across forty years on both sides of the Atlantic. For many, the play became an essential means of understanding a \"vanished time\" and one version of it. Aubrey scholars, however, have sometimes seen the production as over-emphasising its subject's eccentricities and lack of organisation, to the detriment of a wider appreciation of his contributions to scholarship.\n\nIn the 1978 \"Doctor Who\" serial \"The Stones of Blood\"—which features a neolithic stone circle—the Doctor quips, \"I always thought that Druidism was founded by John Aubrey in the seventeenth century as a joke. He had a great sense of humour, John Aubrey.\"\n\nIn 2008, \"Aubrey's Brief Lives\" was a five-part drama serial on Radio 4. Writer Nick Warburton intertwined some of Aubrey's biographical sketches with the story of the turbulent friendship between Aubrey and Anthony Wood. Abigail le Fleming produced and directed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52122653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52122653", "title": "John O. Norrman", "text": "John O. Norrman\n\nJohn Olof Norrman (29 July 1929 – 14 December 2013) was a Swedish geographer and geomorphologist known for his contributions to the coastal dynamics. Together with the other Ph.D. students of Filip Hjulström; Anders Rapp, Valter Axelsson and Åke Sundborg, Norrman was part of what came to be known as the Uppsala School of Physical Geography. Norrman became in 1971 professor of physical geography at Uppsala and in 1987 he was elected member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences.\n"}
{"id": "47081346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47081346", "title": "Kamchik Pass", "text": "Kamchik Pass\n\nThe Kamchik Pass (; ) is a mountain pass in the Qurama Mountains in eastern Uzbekistan. The pass provides a strategically important route as an access for ground transport traveling between the Tashkent and Namangan Regions in the Fergana Valley bypassing neighboring Tajikistan. It connects the capital city of Tashkent with Osh, the second-largest city in neighboring Kyrgyzstan. The peak of the pass reaches above sea level.\n\nThe Tashkent-Osh (A373) international highway now winds through the pass. Approximately 10,000 to 15,000 vehicles travel through the Kamchik Pass each day.\n\nThe Kamchik Pass is frequently closed in the winter due to avalanche hazards. Mudslides and landslides are also threats to vehicles along the route and the nearby villages. In February 2015, the United Nations Development Programme announced it would help aid a disaster risk-reduction project for the Kamchik Pass. The plan is to improve an early warning monitoring system, emergency assistance and education for the people living in remote and rural disaster-prone regions nearby. The project is funded by the European Commission's Humanitarian Aid and Civil Protection Department (ECHO).\n\nIn March 2013, Uzbek Railways announced plans to build a new railway through the Kamchik Pass to allow freight traffic to bypass neighboring Tajikistan. The long electric rail line connects existing railways at Angren and Pap in order to create a direct route between the cities of Tashkent and Namangan. The new rail allows Uzbekistan to abandon the Soviet-era line that cuts across Tajikistan's Sughd Region, saving Uzbekistan a reported $25 million in transit fees it pays to Tajikistan each year. The line opened in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "37715641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37715641", "title": "Kantia", "text": "Kantia\n\nKantia is the name of a phantom island in the Caribbean that Johann Otto Polter, a German merchant from Leipzig, claimed to have seen in 1884. He described its position as \"at the 14th circle of latitude below the Tropic of Cancer\". He named the island after the philosopher Immanuel Kant. In four subsequent expeditions between 1884 and 1909, he failed to rediscover the island to proclaim it for the German emperor.\nAccording to the German sociologist Wulf D. Hund, the story of Kantia is a mere fictional account conceived by Samuel Herzog. \n"}
{"id": "30842555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30842555", "title": "List of French possessions and colonies", "text": "List of French possessions and colonies\n\nDuring the 19th and 20th centuries, the French colonial empire was the second largest colonial empire behind the British Empire; it extended over of land at its height in the 1920s and 1930s. In terms of population however, on the eve of World War II, France and her colonial possessions totalled only 110 million inhabitants, compared to 330 million for British India alone.\n\nFrance began to establish colonies in North America, the Caribbean and India, following Spanish and Portuguese successes during the Age of Discovery, in rivalry with Britain. A series of wars with Britain during the 18th century and early 19th century, which France finally lost, almost ended its colonial ambitions in these regions, and without it what some historians term the \"first\" French colonial empire. In the 19th century, starting with the conquest of Algiers in 1830, France began to establish a new empire in Africa and Southeast Asia.\n\nThe following is a list of all the countries that were part of the French colonial empires in the last 500 years, either entirely or in part, either under French sovereignty or as mandate.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5780425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5780425", "title": "List of German exonyms in the Pilsen Region", "text": "List of German exonyms in the Pilsen Region\n\nList of German exonyms in the Plzeň Region of western Bohemia, in the western region of the Czech Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31537189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31537189", "title": "List of airlines of the Cook Islands", "text": "List of airlines of the Cook Islands\n\nThis is a list of airlines currently operating in Cook Islands.\n"}
{"id": "409879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409879", "title": "List of cities in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "List of cities in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThis is a list of cities in Antigua and Barbuda, sorted by alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34795818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34795818", "title": "List of countries by sector composition of the labor force", "text": "List of countries by sector composition of the labor force\n\nThis is a List of countries by sector composition of the labor force mostly based on The World Factbook \n"}
{"id": "28492747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28492747", "title": "List of diplomatic missions of Abkhazia", "text": "List of diplomatic missions of Abkhazia\n\nThis page lists the diplomatic missions of Abkhazia. The Republic of Abkhazia is a state with limited recognition, which declared independence from Georgia in 1999, but did not receive recognition from any UN member states until after the 2008 South Ossetia war. Abkhazia is recognized by Russia, Nicaragua, Venezuela, Nauru and Syria. In addition, it is recognized also by Nagorno-Karabakh, South Ossetia, and Transnistria, which are not members of the United Nations. Abkhazia has four embassies abroad and small network of representative offices in near countries. Abkhazia also has four honorary consulates.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15905139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15905139", "title": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area", "text": "List of political and geographic subdivisions by total area\n\nThis is an index of a series of comprehensive lists of continents, countries, and first level administrative country subdivisions such as states, provinces, and territories, as well as certain political and geographic features of substantial area. Some divisions are listed twice, with one listing including territory that is excluded in the other for various reasons, including territorial disputes. Names of currently existing countries are bolded, while names of geographic features are \"italicized\". There is intentional overlap between the lists in order to maximize ease of use.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36624520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36624520", "title": "List of recipients of the Order of the Liberator General San Martín", "text": "List of recipients of the Order of the Liberator General San Martín\n\nHere is a classification of the most notable recipients of the Order of the Liberator General San Martín, the highest order of the Republic of Argentina.<br> Mainly Heads of State, members of Royal families & international VIPs\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39654234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39654234", "title": "List of years in Bolivia", "text": "List of years in Bolivia\n\nThis is a list of years in Bolivia. See also the timeline of Bolivian history. For only articles about years in Bolivia that have been written, see . \n\n"}
{"id": "673438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=673438", "title": "Local government in the Bahamas", "text": "Local government in the Bahamas\n\nLocal government in the Bahamas exists in two forms, namely second-schedule and third-schedule district councils. There are a total of 32 local government districts: 13 second-schedule districts, which are further sub-divided into town areas, and 19 third-schedule districts, which are all unitary authorities. The second and third schedules together make up the first schedule. Local government policy is formulated and administered by the Department of Lands and Local Government through the Office of the Prime Minister. The day-to-day policy handling of the portfolio falls to the Minister of Local Government who also is empowered to create new local government areas from time to time based on demographics. The administrative and financial management is overseen by the ministry’s permanent secretary.\n\nLocal government previously existed in the Bahamas in the form of appointed \"Board of Works\". Here towns and villages held their influence over these Board of Works, but almost all final decisions were made by the central government through that islands' Commissioner. The modern system of local government that is in use today was implemented on 8 March 1996. The Out Islands of the country could now enjoy a somewhat greater degree of autonomy, but New Providence Island, in which the capital city Nassau is located, was to be directly governed by the central government. The act that implemented local government had described all districts as either being Second-Schedule or Third-Schedule districts.\n\nThe Districts of the Bahamas provide a system of Local Government everywhere in The Bahamas except New Providence (where Nassau the capital is located, whose affairs are handled directly by the central government). The current system dates from 1996 when 23 districts were \"created\" by The Bahamas Local Government Act of 1996 a further 9 have been added since 1999.\n\nLocal Government in The Bahamas has seen great success since its introduction, but there has been concern over the case of New Providence and whether or not it should have local government.\n\n\nEvery district in the Bahamas has a districts council. A district council is a corporate body with perpetual succession; capable of entering into contracts, of suing and being sued, of acquiring, holdings, leasing and disposing of property of any description, and of doing all such things and entering into such transactions that are within the scope of the \"Local Government Act.\" District Councillors are elected by the population of that district in accordance with Local Government Act. As stated in The Bahamas Local Government Act 1996, Districts councillors shall within two weeks of their election, elect from among themselves a Chief Councillor. The Chief Councillor shall be the representative of a Districts Council for all affairs. He or she is to preside over all meetings and also themselves co-ordinate these meetings.\n\nAll districts councils are classed as first-schedule councils. The first-schedule is further sub-divided into two types of councils: two tier second-schedule district councils that have town committees within their jurisdiction, and unitary third-tier district councils. Second-schedule districts have the following statutory boards and committees:\n\n\nTown committees are sub-structures of the second-schedule district councils, but are also corporate bodies themselves. They share responsibility with second-schedule district councils for a number of the schedule local government functions. They also have statutory responsibility for local regulation and licensing within their jurisdiction. Third-schedule districts councils are unique within the Bahamas because they combine the responsibilities of the second-schedule districts and of the town committees. It should \nbe noted that both second- and third-schedule district councils carry out a building control function...\n\nLocal government elections take place once every three years in the Bahamas with the most recent elections taking place in June 2011 in which 391 positions were contested. The voting system used in local government elections is the first-past-the-post system. Both councillors of third-schedule district councils and members of town committees are directly elected, while members of second-schedule councils are indirectly elected from town committees. Third schedule district councils have between five and nine members, whereas the size of councils in both second-schedule councils and town committees varies according to population size. Bye elections are held whenever the need arises. A councillor is deemed to have resigned if they are absent for three consecutive meetings.\n\nFor both types of district councils the Chief Councillors and their deputies are indirectly elected from amongst the elected officials. They serve for the lifetime of the council and the Minister of Local Government determines their stipend. Second-schedule district councils' statutory boards also elect chairpersons and their deputies from amongst their members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2235142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2235142", "title": "Manning formula", "text": "Manning formula\n\nThe Manning formula is an empirical formula estimating the average velocity of a liquid flowing in a conduit that does not completely enclose the liquid, i.e., open channel flow. However, this equation is also used for calculation of flow variables in case of flow in partially full conduits, as they also possess a free surface like that of open channel flow. All flow in so-called open channels is driven by gravity. It was first presented by the French engineer Philippe Gauckler in 1867, and later re-developed by the Irish engineer Robert Manning in 1890.\n\nThe Manning formula is also known as the Gauckler–Manning formula, or Gauckler–Manning–Strickler formula in Europe. In the United States, in practice, it is very frequently called simply Manning's equation.\n\nThe Gauckler–Manning formula states:\n\nwhere:\n\nNOTE: \"Ks\" strickler = 1/\"n\" manning. The coefficient \"Ks\" strickler varies from 20 (rough stone and rough surface) to 80 m/s (smooth concrete and cast iron).\n\nThe discharge formula, \"Q\" = \"A\" \"V\", can be used to \"manipulate\" Gauckler–Manning's equation by substitution for \"V\". Solving for \"Q\" then allows an estimate of the volumetric flow rate (discharge) without knowing the limiting or actual flow velocity.\n\nThe Gauckler–Manning formula is used to estimate the average velocity of water flowing in an open channel in locations where it is not practical to construct a weir or flume to measure flow with greater accuracy. The friction coefficients across weirs and orifices are less subjective than \"n\" along a natural (earthen, stone or vegetated) channel reach. Cross sectional area, as well as \"n, will likely vary along a natural channel. Accordingly, more error is expected in estimating the average velocity by assuming a Manning's \"n\", than by direct sampling (i.e., with a current flowmeter), or measuring it across weirs, flumes or orifices. Manning's equation is also commonly used as part of a numerical step method\"', such as the standard step method, for delineating the free surface profile of water flowing in an open channel.\n\nThe formula can be obtained by use of dimensional analysis. In the 2000s this formula was derived theoretically using the phenomenological theory of turbulence.\n\nThe demonstration is here:\nhttps://www.academia.edu/37869711/MANNING_FORMULA_DEMONSTRATION\n\nThe hydraulic radius is one of the properties of a channel that controls water discharge. It also determines how much work the channel can do, for example, in moving sediment. All else equal, a river with a larger hydraulic radius will have a higher flow velocity, and also a larger cross sectional area through which that faster water can travel. This means the greater the hydraulic radius, the larger volume of water the channel can carry.\n\nBased on the 'constant shear stress at the boundary' assumption, hydraulic radius is defined as the ratio of the channel's cross-sectional area of the flow to its wetted perimeter (the portion of the cross-section's perimeter that is \"wet\"):\n\nwhere:\nFor channels of a given width, the hydraulic radius is greater for deeper channels. In wide rectangular channels, the hydraulic radius is approximated by the flow depth.\n\nThe hydraulic radius is \"not\" half the hydraulic diameter as the name may suggest, but one quarter in the case of a full pipe. It is a function of the shape of the pipe, channel, or river in which the water is flowing.\n\nHydraulic radius is also important in determining a channel's efficiency (its ability to move water and sediment), and is one of the properties used by water engineers to assess the channel's capacity.\n\nThe Gauckler–Manning coefficient, often denoted as \"n\", is an empirically derived coefficient, which is dependent on many factors, including surface roughness and sinuosity. When field inspection is not possible, the best method to determine \"n\" is to use photographs of river channels where \"n\" has been determined using Gauckler–Manning's formula.\n\nIn natural streams, \"n\" values vary greatly along its reach, and will even vary in a given reach of channel with different stages of flow. Most research shows that \"n\" will decrease with stage, at least up to bank-full. Overbank \"n\" values for a given reach will vary greatly depending on the time of year and the velocity of flow. Summer vegetation will typically have a significantly higher \"n\" value due to leaves and seasonal vegetation. Research has shown, however, that \"n\" values are lower for individual shrubs with leaves than for the shrubs without leaves.\nThis is due to the ability of the plant's leaves to streamline and flex as the flow passes them thus lowering the resistance to flow. High velocity flows will cause some vegetation (such as grasses and forbs) to lay flat, where a lower velocity of flow through the same vegetation will not.\n\nIn open channels, the Darcy–Weisbach equation is valid using the hydraulic diameter as equivalent pipe diameter. It is \nthe only sound method to estimate the energy loss in man-made open channels. For various reasons (mainly historical reasons), empirical resistance coefficients (e.g. Chézy, Gauckler–Manning–Strickler) were and are still used. The Chézy coefficient was introduced in 1768 while the Gauckler–Manning coefficient was first developed in 1865, well before the classical pipe flow resistance experiments in the 1920–1930s. Historically both the Chézy and the Gauckler–Manning coefficients were expected to be constant and functions of the roughness only. But it is now well recognised that these coefficients are only constant for a range of flow rates. Most friction coefficients (except perhaps the Darcy–Weisbach friction factor) are estimated \"100% empirically\" and they apply only to fully rough turbulent water flows under steady flow conditions.\n\nOne of the most important applications of the Manning equation is its use in sewer design. Sewers are often constructed as circular pipes. It has long been accepted that the value of \"n\" varies with the flow depth in partially filled circular pipes. A complete set of explicit equations that can be used to calculate the depth of flow and other unknown variables when applying the Manning equation to circular pipes is available. These equations account for the variation of \"n\" with the depth of flow in accordance with the curves presented by Camp.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11304746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11304746", "title": "Marsica", "text": "Marsica\n\nMarsica is a geographical area in the Abruzzo, central Italy, including 37 \"comuni\" in the province of L'Aquila, the most important of which is Avezzano. It is located between the plain of the former Fucine Lake, the National Park of Abruzzo, Lazio and Molise, the plain of Carsoli and the valley of Sulmona.\n\nThe area takes its name from the Marsi Italic tribe. In the center of the area there is the Fucino former lake, dried up in 1877, surrounded by parks and nature reserves. Avezzano is the most populous city of the territory.\n\nThe Marsica includes 37 \"comuni\": Aielli, Avezzano, Balsorano, Bisegna, Canistro, Capistrello, Cappadocia, Carsoli, Castellafiume, Celano, Cerchio, Civitella Roveto, Civita d'Antino, Collarmele, Collelongo, Gioia dei Marsi, Lecce nei Marsi, Luco dei Marsi, Magliano de' Marsi, Massa d'Albe, Morino, Opi, Oricola, Ortona dei Marsi, Ortucchio, Ovindoli, Pereto, Pescasseroli, Pescina, Rocca di Botte, San Benedetto dei Marsi, San Vincenzo Valle Roveto, Sante Marie, Scurcola Marsicana, Tagliacozzo, Trasacco, Villavallelonga.\n\nThe Marsica territory is rich in parks and natural reserves. Apart the Abruzzo National Park, it includes the natural reserve of Zompo lo Schioppo, the Regional Natural Park of Sirente-Velino, the Monte Velino Natural Reserve, and the Monte Salviano Natural Reserve. The most characteristic animal species is the Marsican brown bear, an endemism of Marsica.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17764148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17764148", "title": "Neorxnawang", "text": "Neorxnawang\n\nNeorxnawang (also Neorxenawang, Neorxnawong; possibly \"field of contentment\") is an Old English term used to translate the Christian concept of \"paradise\" in Anglo-Saxon literature. The term is often theorized as originally having referred to a mythological \"heavenly meadow\", or place without toil or worries, in Germanic paganism.\n\nWhile the second half of the word, \"-\"wang\"\", is widely considered to mean \"field\" and \"waggs\" appears for \"paradise\" in Gothic, the first half of the word has not resulted in a standard form, though at least a dozen attempts have been made to interpret it. Scholar Rudolf Simek states that it is possible to consider the term as a Proto-Germanic term for \"Asgard\" or \"Other World\" due to the unclear meaning, that Christian authors who used it seemed to have a poor understanding of it as well, and that it corresponds with the North Germanic terms \"Iðavöllr\" (possibly \"field of activity\" or \"the continually renewing, rejuvenating field\") and \"Glæsisvellir\" (\"the shining fields\").\n\n19th century scholar Jacob Grimm comments that etymological connections have been proposed between \"Norn\" and \"Neorxnawang\", but says that the theory raises etymological and lore problems: \"The A. gen. pl. neorxana, which only occurs in 'neorxena wong' = paradisus, has been proposed, but the abbreviation would be something unheard of, and even the nom. sing. neorxe or neorxu at variance with norn; besides,the Parcae are nowhere found connected with paradise.\"\n\nLate 19th and early 20th century philologist James Bright proposes that the variant \"neorxena-\" element derives from the phrase \"ne wyrcan\", meaning \"no working\".\n\nIn a 2012 paper, Joseph S. Hopkins and Haukur Þorgeirsson propose a connection between Old Norse \"Fólkvangr\", an afterlife location overseen by the goddess Freyja, and a variety of other Germanic words referring to the afterlife that contain extensions of Proto-Germanic *\"wangaz\" (including Old English \"Neorxnawang\"), potentially pointing to an early Germanic \"'*wangaz\" of the dead'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5100815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5100815", "title": "Paraglacial", "text": "Paraglacial\n\nParaglacial means unstable conditions caused by a significant relaxation time in processes and geomorphic patterns following glacial climates. Rates of landscape change and sediment output from the system are typically elevated during paraglacial landscape response.\n\nWhen a large mass of ice melts, the newly exposed landscape is free of vegetation and is generally unstable. Often, the retreating glacier is providing the area with high stream discharge, further increasing erosion. The combination of a lack of vegetation, high discharge, and a changing climate (the cause of deglaciation) forces ecological communities, sediment deposition patterns and surface morphology to adjust to the new conditions over time.\n\nPeriglacial processes—those that directly involve ice—may be prominent in the early stages of paraglacial landscape response, but the two terms are not synonymous. Many geomorphic processes that don't require freezing conditions—for example fluvial erosion, transport and deposition—are typically involved in paraglacial change.\n\n"}
{"id": "28917994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28917994", "title": "Red Hen Systems", "text": "Red Hen Systems\n\nRed Hen Systems, Inc. is a technology company that develops integrated hardware and software solutions for multimedia asset mapping. Their spatial digital video recorders (DVRs) and still cameras instantly geotag video and still photos at the time of data collection. Corresponding mapping software provides the capability to view photographs, video, and audio using GPS coordinates.\n\nIn Fall 1997, Neil Havermale and Ken Burgess founded Red Hen Systems, Inc. as a software engineering and systems manufacturer, developing in-field data collection, harvest yield recording systems, and input prescription mapping software for agricultural applications. Red Hen Systems, Inc. became an early leader in using GPS (Global Positioning System) data to sample and map field data, as well as process and monitor crop yields.\n\nA year later, the company was searching for a way to edge-detect entry into and exit from a field at harvest to better align crop yield maps. The result was the use of hand-held video recorders that evolved into a video mapping system, developed by Ken Burgess, to help crop scouts identify and locate weeds and pests in the field. This system soon proved there would be new uses for geo-referenced imagery beyond the agricultural field.\n\nToday, Red Hen Systems provides technology to a wide variety of markets including GIS professionals, aerial video, the military, natural resource and environmental management, transportation, and utilities.\n\nRed Hen Systems produces two products for certain Nikon DSLR cameras capable of geotagging digital still images. The Blue2CAN connects the camera with a Bluetooth-enabled GPS unit, allowing the camera’s software to geotag photos as they are taken. For non-Bluetooth applications, the DX-GPS includes a Garmin Geko unit designed to connect directly to the camera. Red Hen Systems is also a pioneer in smartphone integration, providing Blue2CAN users the ability to link their Android smart phone's GPS with the Blue2CAN and its Nikon hosts as of September 2010.\n\nThe integrated hardware and software solutions produced by Red Hen Systems create Geospatially Enabled Media (GEM). GEM is a full-motion video metadata recording system which associates the what (video) with the who, what, when, where, and why's via UTC, GPS, and other encoding. This is done by DAC and ADC recording of digital GPS and other metadata as an audible modem squelch into the left audio channel of a video camera's stereo recordings. The significance of this technology is that it allows for the editing of video while maintaining the integrity of its corresponding metadata. The encoding device that does this is referred to as a video mapping system, or VMS. Currently, there are multiple versions of this device capable of suiting many different applications. In addition to individual VMS units, Red Hen Systems produces packaged digital video recorder (DVR) solutions that store geo-referenced video as it is produced.\n\nThe development of the VMS led to the creation of software to decode this audio signal. In 2001, Red Hen Systems received a patent of a method to match this metadata with the recorded images. The original software designed to do this was made to work with tape-based media (as opposed to digital), and was called VMS player. This early version was noted for its ease of use and flexibility since it supported maps from ESRI, a major producer of GIS products. Red Hen software has continued to evolve with video technology, moving from tape to mini-DVD to digital media, with each iteration allowing for more information.\n\nCurrent offerings include hardware for mapping photo and video, and software for ESRI and non-ESRI applications, as well as a server for organization-wide content sharing.\n\n"}
{"id": "44592132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44592132", "title": "Roman fort, Mušov", "text": "Roman fort, Mušov\n\nThe Roman fort (), also known as and , is an archaeological site located in Mušov, Czech Republic, of a Roman army camp on the Dyje-Svratka-Jihlava confluence. It was intended to be the capital of the proposed Marcomannia province (Moravia).\n\nThe site is located on the Dyje-Svratka-Jihlava confluence. It is situated 18 km from Brno and 86 km from Vienna.\n\nThe \"castra\" in Mušov originated as a Roman army camp. Its name is unknown (possibly, but uncertainly, it was \"Eburon\", from Ptolemy's Eβυρον). Romans made it his base of operations in the campaigns against Maroboduus (Marbod). So far the important in the Europe-wide context remains the unique site encompassing large variety of evidences of the period of the Marcomannic Wars (166-180 AD) - the central military base on the hill Hradisko (Hillfort) at Mušov (now cadastral area of Pasohlávky). It was built by the Marcus Aurelius' soldiers deep inside the enemy territory, roughly 86 km to the north of the antique Vindobona (today Vienna). The base covers flat minor hilltop, superelevated by 50 m above surrounding terrain, and its southern mild slopes, on the banks of the river Dyje (Thaya). From this strategically situated location was possible to control and manage crossings of river (fort) and overland routes at the confluence of the rivers Svratka, Svitava and Dyje (Thaya) as well as surrounding areas along the rivers, densely populated by the Germanic tribes of Marcomanii.\n\nEven in Roman times it had a history as a trading center for amber (\"in analogy\" as in Carnuntum), brought from the north to traders who sold it in Italy; the main arm of the Amber Road crossed the Danube at Carnuntum and continue on the right bank of Dyje. Marcus Aurelius resided there for short time in the operations time, shortly before his death (180 AD) - during the war against the Marcomanni. During the Barbarian Invasions (reocuppy of the territory - \"Eburon\" was eventually abandoned and used as a cemetery and source of building material for building projects elsewhere. Eventually, its remains were covered by decaying plant material.\n\nThe remains of the civilian city extended around the fortress (on the top). Housing around the upper (real roman) fort was in fact measuring more than 11 square kilometres, lightly fortified, area densely populated by the Germanic tribes of Marcomanni (or Quadi) - (the part of them traded and collaborated with the Romans and enjoyed luxury roman goods). They had the best out of comfort of (partly) civilised life. The area was (of natural development) bounded by left (northern) bank of Dyje river in the south, right (western) bank of Jihlava River in the east and in the north by rectangular plan enclosed V-shaped ditch (and light fence ?). History of this area and its development is probably more older than history of real Roman fort on top of the hill.\n\nThe inner build-up area of the Roman fortress at Hradisko was uncovered in very limited scale so far. Yet between the years 1926 and 1928 were uncovered unique evidences of antic architecture in the north parts of fortified area by archeologist Anton Gnirs and supported by president Masaryk. Back then discovered enclosure, consisting of residential building with four rooms and baths, considering the war conditions, could be interpreted as luxury residential complex, some sort of ad hoc residence for the highest representatives of military authorities and commanders. Smaller scales of the baths implies rather private use, but there were all necessary rooms including cold and hot water. Baths determined for ordinary Roman soldiers will be at Hillfort (Hradisko) perhaps discovered in the future.\n\nIn the close surrounding was discovered more than 12 temporary Roman military camps (marching camps). In the seasonal operations (179 AD) was settled there more than 50 000 legionars, mostly from the X. legio - GEMINA PIA FIDELIS\n\nOn the open area among the buildings were uncovered simple round kilns and one sizable waste pit. This installation served as workshop district, specialized among others to reparations and perhaps simple production of the Roman military equipment and weaponry. This evidence support an idea that inside the fortified area operated certain numbers of civilian personnel under protection of the Roman army. Their sustenance depended on contracts with the Roman army and for that they followed them even in the time of war into the hostile territory\n\n"}
{"id": "1342676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1342676", "title": "Slave Coast of West Africa", "text": "Slave Coast of West Africa\n\nThe Slave Coast is a historical name formerly used for parts of coastal West Africa along the Bight of Benin. The name is derived from the region's history as a major source of African slaves during the Atlantic slave trade from the early 16th century to the late 19th century. Other nearby coastal regions historically known by their prime colonial export are the Gold Coast, the Ivory Coast, and the Pepper Coast (or Grain Coast).\n\nEuropean sources began documenting the development of trade in this region and its integration into the trans-Atlantic slave trade around 1670. The slave trade became so extensive in the 18th and 19th centuries that an “Atlantic community” was formed. The slave trade was facilitated on the European end by the Portuguese, the Dutch, the French and the British. Slaves went to the New World, mostly to Brazil and the Caribbean. Ports that exported these slaves from Africa include Ouidah, Lagos, Aného (Little Popo), Grand-Popo, Agoué, Jakin, Porto-Novo, and Badagry. These ports traded in slaves that were supplied from African communities, tribes and kingdoms, including the Alladah and Ouidah, which were later taken over by the Dahomey kingdom.\n\nResearchers estimate that between two and three million slaves were exported out of this region and traded for goods like alcohol and tobacco from the Americas and textiles from Europe. Current estimates are that about 12 million Africans were shipped across the Atlantic from West Africa, although the number purchased by traders was considerably higher.\n\nThis complex exchange fostered political and cultural as well as commercial connections between these three regions. Religions, architectural styles, languages, knowledge, and other new goods were mingled at this time. In addition to the slaves, free men used the exchange routes to travel to new places, and both slaves and free travellers aided in blending European and African cultures. Intermarriage has been documented in ports like Ouidah where Europeans were permanently stationed. Communication was quite extensive between all three areas of trade, to the point where even individual slaves could be tracked.\n\nAfter slavery was abolished by European countries, the slave trade continued for a time with independent traders instead of government agents. Cultural integration had become so extensive that the defining characteristics of each culture were increasingly broadened. In the case of Brazilian culture—which had differentiated itself from Portuguese culture through its combination of African, Portuguese and New World traditions—Brazilian-style dress, cuisine and speaking Portuguese had become the main requirements for Brazilian identity, regardless of ethnicity, religion, or geographic location.\n\n\n7. Anissa Smith \n\n"}
{"id": "56649977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56649977", "title": "Stefano Bonsignori (cartographer)", "text": "Stefano Bonsignori (cartographer)\n\nStefano Bonsignori or Buonsignori (died 21 September 1589, Florence) was an Italian Olivetan monk and cartographer to Francesco I, Grand Duke of Tuscany. He was born in Florence and is most notable for his eponymous Bonsignori Map of Florence.\n"}
{"id": "7336114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7336114", "title": "Tehran County", "text": "Tehran County\n\nTehran County () is a county in Tehran Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Tehran. At the 2006 census, the county's population was 7,882,843, in 2,313,002 families. The county is subdivided into three districts: the Central District, Kan District, and Aftab District. The county has one city: Tehran.\n\nGreater Tehran is situated mostly in Tehran County. It is the most populous county in Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "29707012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29707012", "title": "Thomas Mountains", "text": "Thomas Mountains\n\nThomas Mountains () is a separate cluster of rocky mountains, about 5 nautical miles (9 km) long, standing 15 nautical miles (28 km) northeast of Mount Horne in Palmer Land. Discovered by the Ronne Antarctic Research Expedition (RARE), 1947–48, under Ronne, who named these mountains for noted author and radio commentator Lowell Thomas, a supporter of the expedition.\n"}
{"id": "1756250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1756250", "title": "Tumbes-Chocó-Magdalena", "text": "Tumbes-Chocó-Magdalena\n\nTumbes-Chocó-Magdalena is a biodiversity hotspot, which includes the tropical moist forests and tropical dry forests of the Pacific coast of South America and the Galapagos Islands. The region extends from easternmost Panama to the lower Magdalena Valley of Colombia, and along the Pacific coast of Colombia and Ecuador to the northwestern corner of Peru. Formerly called the Chocó-Darién-Western Ecuador Hotspot, it has been expanded to include several new areas, notably the Magdalena Valley in northern Colombia. It is bounded on the east by the Andes Mountains. The Tumbes-Choco-Magdalena Hotspot is 1,500 km long and encircles 274,597 km². Tumbes-Choco-Magdalena is near the Pacific Ocean. The factors that threaten Tumbes-Choco-Magdalena are farming encroachment, deforestation, illegal crops, and population growth. Whereas the Panamanian and Colombian portion of the hotspot are relatively intact, approximately 98% of native forest in coastal Ecuador has been cleared, rendering it the most threatened tropical forest in the world. The hotspot includes a wide variety of habitats, ranging from mangroves, beaches, rocky shorelines, and coastal wilderness to some of the world's wettest rain forests in the Colombian Chocó. The hotspot includes a number of ecoregions:\n\n\nSome of the endemic species of this hotspot are the following:\n\nEndemic Plant Species: 2,750\n\nEndemic Threatened Birds: 21\n\nEndemic Threatened Mammals: 7\n\nEndemic Threatened Amphibians: 8\n\nHuman Population Density (people/km²): 51\n"}
