{"id": "55354264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55354264", "title": "11th century in philosophy", "text": "11th century in philosophy\n\nThis is a list of philosophy-related events in the 11th century.\n\nAlberic of Monte Cassino wrote on the Eucharistic Controversy, opposing the views of Berengar. This was a significant moment in moving the dispute away from hermeneutics and philosophy towards a theological approach preferred by the prelates.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29330911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29330911", "title": "Aleksander Birkenmajer", "text": "Aleksander Birkenmajer\n\nAleksander Ludwik Birkenmajer (8 July 1890 – 30 September 1967) was a Polish historian of exact sciences and philosophy, bibliologist, professor of the Jagiellonian University in Kraków and of the Warsaw University.\n\nHe was the son of astronomer and historian of science Ludwik Antoni Birkenmajer. Aleksander was educated in Chernikhov and in the Jesuit high school in Chyrow. In 1908-1912 he studied classical philology, physics, mathematics and history at the Jagiellonian University in Kraków. In 1914 defended there his PhD thesis based on the monograph about Henri Bate de Malines as an astronomer and philosopher of the 13th century, and annotated to him, Critics of the King Alphons tables (Alfonsine tables). The dissertation was prepared under the supervision of Władysław Natanson. During the studies he also worked in the Jagiellonian Astronomical Observatory. Since 1919 he cooperated with the Jagiellonian Library, where in 1924 he became a curator of the Department of Manuscripts and Old Prints. After presenting and defending of the next monograph on the Renaissance of mathematical and natural sciences in the Middle Ages he became a professor and the head of the History of Exact Sciences Department of the University in Kraków. In 1938 he became a full extraordinary professor. But earlier in 1931 he resigned the post in the History of Exact Sciences Department to protest against the lack of activity of the Polish Ministry of Religious Denominations and Public Instruction and the Jagiellonian University authorities, because of their absence of endeavors to develop Polish science.\n\nIn November 1939 he was arrested and imprisoned in the KZ Sachsenhausen during the Sonderaktion Krakau. Released in the autumn of 1940 he got back to the library as a simple librarian, and struggled to save and secure the collections during the war. In the midst of 1944 he was fired from Library, because some valuable manuscripts - previously destined to be sent to Nazi Germany - had disappeared. After the war he was simultaneously the director of the Jagiellonian Library and the University of Poznan Library, till 1947. In 1951 he became an ordinary professor of Warsaw University, and the head of the Bibliology Chair. He was one of the organizers of the future Institute for the History of Science, Polish Academy of Sciences. In 1954-1966 he conducted its Section of the History of Mathematical, Physico-Chemical and Geological-Geographical Sciences in the Department of the History of Science and Technology of the Polish Academy of Sciences, as well as was the president of its Academic Counsel.\n\nBirkenmajer prepared the first edition of the \"De revolutionibus\" of Nicolaus Copernicus (1953). He studied also a scientific output of Witelo, revealed the authorship of the opus Philosophia Pauperum of Saint Albert the Great, he studies Aristotle. He became quickly a renown international expert in the field of research of Copernicus and Aristotle' heritage. He was member of the Polish Academy of Sciences and Letters in Kraków (1936), International Academy of the History of Science (1935), and its vice-president in 1959-1965, and also a member of the Royal Historical Society in London, and a member of the Association of Czech Librarians in Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2425766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2425766", "title": "Alleged Ouze Merham interview of Ariel Sharon", "text": "Alleged Ouze Merham interview of Ariel Sharon\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, a paragraph alleged to come from a 1956 interview of Ariel Sharon, conducted by an Israel Defense Forces general named Ouze Merham, was quoted in a number of publications. The paragraph advocates burning Palestinian children and raping Palestinian women and Arab girls, as well as Sharon claiming to have killed 750 Palestinian civilians during the Suez Crisis. The interview, the paragraph, and the existence of Ouze Merham himself have been denounced as fabrications. In 1956 Sharon, who later became Prime Minister of Israel, was a major in the IDF.\n\nAccording to the allegations, Sharon was interviewed by a general named Ouze Merham about his service in the 1956 Suez Crisis, and said the following:\n\nThe disputed quotation was published by a number of media outlets and websites in the Muslim world and elsewhere in conjunction with anti-Israel commentary, including on IslamOnline; the English language Pakistani newspaper, \"The Nation;\" and the London-based Arabic newspaper, \"Al-Hayat,\" which published the quote in a July 11, 2005, opinion article. As'ad Abdul Rahman, chairman of the \"Palestinian Encyclopedia,\" used the quote as his lede for an opinion piece about alleged Jewish control of the world media in the \"Gulf News\" of December 4, 2004.\n\nA student columnist used the quote in her December 11, 2003 \"Daily Illini\" column, but later admitted the quote was false and apologized.\nThe incident was still being discussed as late as 2007.\n\nA columnist for \"The Hoya\", the student newspaper of Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., used the quotation on March 19, 2002, introducing it with \"Then again, we shouldn't be surprised about Sharon's feelings toward Palestinians; in 1956 when talking with Israeli General Ouze Merham, he said […]\"\n\"The Daily Star\" English-language newspaper in Bangladesh published the quotation on January 31, 2005 in a commentary article by retired Brigadier General M. Abdul Hafiz, who introduced the quotation with \"Back in 1956 in an interview with general Ouze Merham, Sharon, a remorseless butcher of Sabra and Shatilla, said […]\"\n\nTariq A. Al-Maeena, a columnist for the Saudi Gazette, used the quotation on August 23, 2017 (“Netanyahu is calculatedly following the game plan set by his mentor Ariel Sharon, a former Israeli prime minister who once said in a recorded interview: ‘I don’t know something called International Principles. I vow that I’ll burn every Palestinian child (that) will be born in this area.[...]’”).\n\nAccording to the Committee for Accuracy in Middle East Reporting in America (CAMERA, a pro-Israel media research group), there is no record of any Israeli general named \"Ouze Merham\" existing, nor any record of Sharon giving such an interview in 1956. It is also unclear why an Israeli general would interview Sharon (who, at the time, was only a major), and then publish the interview. CAMERA has also stated that the quote cannot be found in any text book, news article, or published record.\n\nThe quotation was reportedly put on the website of MIFTAH, a Palestinian organization founded by Hanan Ashrawi, who is on the executive committee of the group's governing board. MIFTAH has been accused by the pro-Israeli group NGO Monitor of fabricating the quotation.\n\nBased on the reported Ouze Merham interview, the Islamic Human Rights Commission announced Sharon as the winner of the \"Most Islamophobic International Politician of the Year\" award at the 2003 Annual Islamophobia Awards ceremony. The host told the recipient, described as a \"Palestinian freedom fighter,\" to personally deliver the award to Sharon.\n\nIn a June 9, 2004 interview on Australian Broadcasting Corporation's \"The Religion Report\", interviewer Stephen Crittenden challenged Arzu Merali, the organizer of the Islamophobia awards, on the Sharon presentation. Crittenden pointed out that the IHRC's own website stated that the alleged interview could not be corroborated. Merali replied \"Well you know, I can take that further with the people who researched that, but pretty much everything that went out last year was well researched. If you want, I’ll go out and dig up the verification for you. I’m happy to do it.\" \nThe IHRC website stated that the veracity of the quote had not been confirmed:\nWhilst this quotation can be found on several reputable sites, we could not independently verify its authenticity. If you know the source please do let us know.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6564419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6564419", "title": "Allen G. Debus", "text": "Allen G. Debus\n\nAllen George Debus (August 16, 1926 – March 6, 2009) was an American historian of science, known primarily for his work on the history of chemistry and alchemy. In 1991 he was honored at the University of Chicago with an academic conference held in his name. Paul H. Theerman and Karen Hunger Parshall edited the proceedings, and Debus contributed his autobiography of which this article is a digest.\n\nAllen Debus attended the Evanston public school system where he showed an early interest in history. A great aunt passed on her legacy of an epoch of music to him in the form of a 1908 Victrola and a record collection up to 1923. Due to the topical material and dialect songs, he wrote \"studying this music gave me an opportunity early on to place past events in their historical context\". In the contextual approach to history, developments should be compared across fields, and this is a feature of the school of Alexandre Koyre, I. Bernard Cohen, and Walter Pagel, the latter two being teachers of Debus.\n\nDebus studied chemical engineering and history, graduating with a major in chemistry in the summer of 1947 from Northwestern University. He pursued his master's degree at Indiana University where he had followed John J. Murray. In June 1949 he presented his master's thesis \"Robert Boyle and Chemistry in England 1660-1700\" under John J. Murray. Subsequently, he worked towards a master's in chemistry at the same institution. He went to work for Abbott Laboratories, a company for which he filed five patents. He wrote that slow reaction times for some of his work provided reading time for broader investigations in history of science and chemistry literature. In fall 1956 he began his Ph.D. studies at Harvard under I. Bernard Cohen. His teaching assistant work was supervised by Leonard K. Nash. In a seminar with W. K. Jordan he presented a paper on the English followers of Paracelsus which received the Bowdoin Prize in the Natural Sciences, the first of two from his years at Harvard. In September 1959 he went to London, England to delve more deeply into the topic. There he met regularly with Walter Pagel and attended University College of London courses given by Douglas McKie. Returning to Harvard, he completed the requirements for a Harvard Ph.D. in history of science.\n\nIn 1961, Debus took up a position at the University of Chicago under William McNeill in the Department of History, with one-third of the time as assistant professor in history of science, and two-thirds in undergraduate physical science coursework. In 1965 he was raised to Associate Professor on the strength of his book \"The English Paracelsians\". For the school-year 1966/7 he went on an overseas fellowship to Churchill College, Cambridge. Back at the University of Chicago, Debus described attempts by the philosophy department to intrude on the history of science program in the history department.\n\nDebus was instrumental in the development of the \"Morris Fishbein Center\": he served as its first director for two three-year terms. In 1978 he was elected to the academic chair at University of Chicago established in honor of Morris Fishbein. Allen G. Debus developed a three-quarter sequence in history of science, leading from ancient science to the beginning of the twentieth century. He also led seminars in Renaissance science and medicine. He was at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton working on the Renaissance chemical philosophy. He was awarded the George Sarton Medal (1994) and the Pfizer Award (1978) from the History of Science Society. He was also awarded the Dexter Award (1987) of the American Chemical Society and the Edward Kremers Award of the American Institute of the History of Pharmacy. In 1984 he received an honorary Ph.D. from the Catholic University of Louvain.\n\nAllen G. Debus noted that his academic career was an innovation in his familial lineage. His father formed the company \"Modern Boxes\", where Allen served as salesman for a time in 1950. Allen met Brunilda Lopez Rodriguez from Puerto Rico at Indiana University. They married in 1951, and studied Latin, French, and German together preparing for Debus' push for the Ph.D. They had three children: Allen (1954), Richard (1957–2007), and Karl (1961).\n\n\nDebus reprinted 16th and 17th century texts by Elias Ashmole, John Dee and Robert Fludd.\n\nHe programmed and prepared notes for CDs released by Archeophone Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "14275640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14275640", "title": "Antonio Valeriano", "text": "Antonio Valeriano\n\nAntonio Valeriano (c. 1521–1605) was a colonial Mexican, Nahua scholar and politician. He was a collaborator with fray Bernardino de Sahagún in the creation of the twelve-volume \"General History of the Things of New Spain\", the Florentine Codex, He served as judge-governor of both his home, Azcapotzalco, and of Tenochtitlan, in Spanish colonial New Spain.\n\nAntonio de Valeriano was the most accomplished pupil and then native scholar at the Franciscan Colegio de Santa Cruz de Tlatelolco. As with other students at the colegio, Valeriano was taught literacy in Nahuatl, Spanish, and Latin. Bernardino de Sahagún singled out Valeriano as \"one of my collaborators ... collegians expert in grammar. The principal and most learned of them was Antonio de Valeriano of Atzcapoltzalco.\" He was also praised by Franciscan Fray Juan Bautista, who preserved the last letter that Valeriano wrote him in Latin. Valeriano says that \"my hands are trembling, my eyes are clouded, and my ears closed\" [\"manus namque vacillant, oculi calignant, et aures occlusae\"] and signing as \"Your most loving, but unworthy, Antonius Valerianus\" [\"Tui amantissimus etsi indignus. Antonius Valerianus\"].\n\nValeriano and other pupils and former pupils of the colegio are to be credited with their collaboration with the Franciscans in creating religious texts, dictionaries, and other texts such as Sahagún's magnum opus of the \"General History of the Things of New Spain\", the Florentine Codex.\n\nThe question of Valeriano's authorship of the Nahuatl text known as \"Nican Mopohua\" has become a point of contention in the long-running dispute over the historicity of the apparitions of the Virgin Mary (under the title Our Lady of Guadalupe) to Juan Diego in 1531. The \"Nican Mopohua\" was published in 1649 by Luis Lasso de la Vega as part of a composite text known from its opening words as the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\", and de la Vega's claims of authorship in the preface to that work notwithstanding, the \"Nican Mopohua\" has long been attributed to Valeriano. This attribution is based on a tradition dating back to the Informaciones Jurídicas de 1666 and the assertions of Luis Becerra Tanco and, subsequently, Don Carlos de Sigüenza y Góngora as to Valeriano's authorship and as to their acquaintance with the relative manuscripts in his hand-writing.\n\nSuggestions have been made that its content is incompatible with someone (such as Valeriano) who had close bonds with the Franciscans, and others have suggested that the \"Huei tlamahuiçoltica\" is a unitary work which – despite the considerable objections against such a possibility – de la Vega wrote, with the assistance of a collaborator. Nevertheless, the general consensus among Mexican scholars (ecclesiastical and secular) remains that Valeriano is indeed the author of the \"Nican Mopohua\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13345677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13345677", "title": "Bira, Russia", "text": "Bira, Russia\n\nBira () is an urban locality (an urban-type settlement) in Obluchensky District of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, Russia. Population: \n\nBira railway station was built in 1908. In 1937, a larger railway station and a depot were constructed.\n\nIn 2006, the Chief Rabbi of the Jewish Autonomous Oblast, Mordechai Scheiner, visited Bira to inspect local cemeteries and gather information about the Jews buried there in the years prior to World War II.\n\n"}
{"id": "41342383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41342383", "title": "Boris Fausto", "text": "Boris Fausto\n\nBoris Fausto (São Paulo, 8 December 1930) is a Brazilian historian, political scientist and writer.\n\nDuring his career, he carried out studies on the political history of Brazil in the republican period, about mass immigration to Brazil, crime and criminality in São Paulo and authoritarian thinking.\n\nOne of his main works is \"Revolução de 1930 - historiografia e história\" (The 1930 Revolution - historiography and history), first published in 1970, in which he confronts visions that defend the state of São Paulo during the 1930 revolution and the subsequent 1932 Constitutionalist Revolution.\n\nFausto was born to a family of Jewish immigrants. His mother, Eva, was born in Turkey, while his father Simon, was born in Transylvania, current Romania. He attended Colégio Mackenzie as an elementary student and Colégio São Bento at high school. He graduated in Law in 1953 and then mastered in History in 1966 at University of São Paulo (USP). In 1965, he became an assistant professor at the School of Philosophy and Human Sciences of the Pontifical Catholic University of São Paulo (PUC-SP) In 1968 he post-graduated at USP and, in the same year, obtained his doctor's degree. In 1975 he became an Associate Professor of political sciences at USP and from 1988 to 1997, he was a retired professor-collaborator of the Political Sciences Department of USP. In 2001, he was nominated for the Brazilian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1961, he married educator and co-founder of Escola Vera Cruz, Cynira Stocco Fausto (1931-2010), with whom he had two sons, sociologist Sérgio Fausto and anthropologist Carlos Fausto.\n\n\n\nA collection released in the 1990s and re-released in the 2000s by Editora Bertrand Brasil, co-written with Sérgio Buarque de Hollanda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7892899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7892899", "title": "Charles Frederick Lawrence", "text": "Charles Frederick Lawrence\n\nCharles Frederick Lawrence (April 15, 1873 – June 29, 1940) was an antiquarian who discovered a number of Neolithic celts in Middlewich in Cheshire, England. C F Lawrence was also the clerk to Middlewich town council, and wrote two histories of the town.\n\nCharles Lawrence was the eldest son of John Lawrence, a builder in Middlewich. He was educated at the Church of England School, and in 1893 married Hannah Ramsell of Sandbach, at St. Mary's church, Sandbach. He was appointed the clerk to Middlewich Council in 1904 and remained in this position until retiring in 1938.\n\n\"Quite accidentally [Lawrence] realised his greatest antiquarian ambition when he found a Neolithic stone celt among some stones which had been thrown out in digging in Lawrence Gardens. This led to a considerable amount of spare-time digging, with the result that some rudely worked stones were unearthed in the underlying gravel, which have been pronounced to be Palæolithic. These are now in the Grosvenor Museum, Chester. A beautifully chipped Neolithic spear-head of flint, of the shouldered form rarely found in England, a bone needle, a done pin, two stone celts, and a bronze-flanged socketed celt, have also been discovered, some of which are preserved at Chester, and others in the town.\" (\"Bygone Middlewich\", 1905)\n\n"}
{"id": "12732653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12732653", "title": "Chronica Gallica of 511", "text": "Chronica Gallica of 511\n\nThe Chronica or Cronaca Gallica of 511, also called the Gallic Chronicle of 511, is a chronicle of Late Antiquity preserved today in a single manuscript of the thirteenth century now in Madrid. It resembles in all its traits another late antique Gallic chronicle, the \"Chronica Gallica of 452\", of which it may be a continuation. \nLike the chronicle of 452, it was written in the south of Gaul, possibly at Arles or Marseille. The sources of its author include the earlier chronicle, the chronicle of Sulpicius Severus, that of Hydatius, that of Orosius, and the imperial consular records. It was added to a compilation of texts in Spain in 733. \n\nThe chronicle covers the period from 379 to 509/511, from which derives its name. Its entries are short and pointed, but only (approximately) datable by the rare reference to the regnal year of an emperor and by the (assumed) chronological ordering of events. Among the events for which there is no other extant source is the defeat and death of Anthemiolus around 471. \n"}
{"id": "3734380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3734380", "title": "Chunyun", "text": "Chunyun\n\nChunyun (), also referred to as the Spring Festival travel season or the \"Chunyun\" period, is a period of travel in China with extremely high traffic load around the time of the Chinese New Year. The period usually begins 15 days before Lunar New Year's Day and lasts for around 40 days. The number of passenger-journeys during the Chunyun period is projected to be hitting over 2.9 billion in 2016. It has been called the largest annual human migration in the world. Rail transport experiences the biggest challenge during the period, and myriad social problems have emerged. This phenomenon is also seen in parts of East Asia such as Taiwan, Vietnam and South Korea.\n\nThree main factors are responsible for the heightened traffic load during the Chunyun period.\n\nFirst, it is a long-held tradition for most Chinese people to reunite with their families during Chinese New Year. People return home from work or study to have Reunion dinner with their families on New Year's Eve. Since the Chinese economic reforms of the late 1970s, new economic opportunities have emerged, often at a considerable distance from people's hometowns. Places such as the Special Economic Zones and the wealthy coastal regions offer employment and often, a more sought-after lifestyle. Consequently, there has been a massive migration from rural to urban areas over the course of the last few decades, reminiscent of other industrial revolutions around the world. The number of these migrant workers was estimated at 50 million at 1990 and unofficially estimated at 150 million to 200 million in 2000.\nDuring the Chunyun period, many of these laborers return to their home towns.\n\nSecond, Chinese education reforms have increased the number of university students, who often study outside of their hometown. The Spring Festival holiday period falls around the same time frame as their winter break. Among the 194 million railway passengers of the 2006 Chunyun period were 6.95 million university students.\n\nFinally, because the Spring Festival Period is one of the week-long holiday periods in the People's Republic of China (the only other being National Day, Oct 1), many people choose to travel for pleasure around this time. Tourism in mainland China is reaching record levels, further adding to the pressure on the transportation system.\n\nThese factors exacerbate current problems with China's current inter-city transportation systems. The railway network is insufficient to handle the number of passengers, and does not reach enough places. The locations not serviced by rail must rely on buses for transportation, which faces problems such as inadequate equipment and road network.\n\nThe most affected modes of transportation are inter-city surface passenger transportation systems, namely railway and road networks. Most Chinese middle-class citizens cannot readily afford air transport. International, urban and waterway transportation are slightly affected. Until 2007, due to the high demand, the prices of tickets are increased during the period. In 2007's Chunyun period (Feb 4-March 14), however, the government imposed strict regulations against inflated prices on railway tickets.\n\nIn 2012, the PRC government announced that national highways would be toll free for Golden Week, and as a result 86 million people traveled by road (13% increase compared to the previous year). The same year, 7.6 million people traveled via domestic airlines, and 60.9 million people traveled via railway.\n\nThe Ministry of Railways estimated that 340 million passengers would take trains during the 2009 Chunyun period. However, the average daily capacity of the Chinese railway system is 3.4 million. The shortage of railway resources led many passengers to pay double or even triple-priced tickets from scalpers or to wait in lines for up to a day at railway stations.\n\nBecause of the extremely long waiting period, many customers become frustrated and search for solutions even cutting in line, often resulting in conflict. Fighting over places in line is often seen, and as people get closer to the ticket booth, much pushing and shoving ensues. The overworked ticket booth workers are generally frustrated with the repetitive and dull nature of their work, which, in most places in the country, come in long shifts every time, and therefore reflect a largely negative and frustrated image to the customers. Inquiries by customers are not always answered correctly or at all; customers are not offered many options to begin with, if time is allotted for indecision the customer is usually pushed aside by the next person in the line. The same problem is found with phone lines, which saves the anxiety of waiting in line, but are severely overloaded and the reception is often rude when a ticket agent finally picks up after several hours of waiting. In Shenzhen it is estimated that 23 days worth of tickets can be gone in a matter of 14 minutes if telephone was the only method employed. An internet system is present, but at times inadequate.\n\nTo fit demand, hundreds of \"temporary trains\" (\"Linke\") and hundreds of thousands of temporary buses are operated during this period, the number of ticket offices is increased and selling periods are extended to cope with the demand, with temporary booths springing up. Batch orders from schools and factories are organized to distribute tickets ahead of time. These measures, however, are generally inadequate and often tampered with. For example, during the 2005 Chunyun period, the ticket offices in Shenzhen had tens of telephone lines, and at times got millions of calls per hour. In the Guangzhou area, the number of calls reached 19.91 million per hour. Guangzhou Railway Group increased the number of telephone lines at their ticket offices to 8,000 in the 2006 Chunyun period.\n\nDue to the basic nature of Chinese railway tickets and the loosely set limitations on the number of \"standing tickets\" (which is basically a pass to get on a crowded railway car), Scalpers (\"piaofanzi\" 票贩子 or \"huangniu\" 黄牛, lit. \"yellow bull\" in Chinese) profit greatly during the Chunyun period. Organizations of scalpers have emerged, and the scalpers inside the sometimes intricate network work collectively to make the most gain out of the tickets. They pick up tickets in great numbers minutes after they go on sale, and then deal them out in and around the railway station at highly inflated prices. A significant problem has also emerged with the illegal dealing of tickets through obsolete ticket modification or even printing outright fake tickets using computer technology. Although measures have been put in place to prevent fake tickets, passengers who purchase the tickets become extremely frustrated when the authenticity of their tickets is questioned only upon arrival at the ticket validation officer, what would be minutes before boarding the train. Because of the worsening nature of the problem, the government has issued many warnings and began various campaigns to crack down on the scalpers. Unfortunately, because of the complicated nature of the problem and the social networks which surround the scalper organizations, police and other authorities who are supposed to be in charge of the crackdown often become involved in the illicit activity themselves, and take many bribes from the scalpers.\n\nThere has also developed a significant safety risk during the Chunyun season. Theft, robbery, fraud and other crimes are the most flagrant during the time period. Passenger supervision and checks on luggage become stricter. The common belief in the safety of railway travel is undermined by the fact that many railway cars are severely overcrowded. Bus companies, in order to gain a bigger profit, overwork the bus drivers on irregular schedules, overloading people every round, causing a higher accident rate. Trains also face a problem with scheduling, as an overcrowded network cannot ensure the overall accuracy of train schedules, and some trains are habitually late hours at a time, cause unease and frustration with passengers. The government has taken to passing legislation to regulate late trains, and make a public notice and apology for late trains mandatory.\n\nThe passenger flow during the Chunyun period is usually imbalanced. Before the Spring Festival, passengers usually gather in developed coastal cities, railway interchange cities such as Beijing, Shanghai, Shenzhen and Guangzhou, and basically flow from more developed urban areas to less developed rural areas. The passenger flow direction is reversed after the Spring Festival. In addition, passenger flow is very sensitive to disruption, such as bad weather. In 2007, round-trip train tickets became available for college students.\n\nSevere snow storms in late January 2008 stranded many thousands of migrant workers as they attempted to get home. At one time over 100,000 people were at the main railway station in the southern city of Guangzhou. Around 1.3 million troops and reservists were drafted in around the country to clear blocked roads and rail lines to enable people to travel.\n\nDespite initial opposition from the Chinese Ministry of Railways, train tickets were upgraded in late 2009 to accommodate QR codes on a ticket, thus enabling personal information to be stored. This would link the ticket with its legal purchaser, paving the way for a \"real name and ID\" requirement to be implemented. Such a policy went into effect on a trial basis beginning early 2010 (for the duration of the Chunyun period on all non high-speed trains). In 2011, the \"real name and ID\" requirement expanded to more cities in China, and was made permanent for the Wuhan-Guangzhou High-Speed Railway even after the Chunyun period. The requirement became mandatory for all CRH high speed trains with effect from June 1, 2011 and was expanded to nearly all passenger trains on January 1, 2012. It is now policy for station staff and rail police to check all riders against their document of identity and to deny boarding to those without a ticket or with no linked ID.\n\nAs a result, stations that see large passenger flow, such as the Beijing West Railway Station, are obliged to set up extra ticket inspection counters to allow only legal holders of train tickets to enter the waiting area or the station area at all, especially during the Spring Festival travel peak. The result has been a requirement for more passengers to arrive earlier at stations. It did not completely eradicate scalpers, but did reduce their activity significantly.\n\nAir transportation is less affected as most travelers are workers who cannot afford air transport, but nevertheless the Chunyun impact is increasing. In 2008 roughly 28 million passengers used air transportation as their method of travel inside China. Xiamen Airlines, for example, added nearly 210 flights to its roster during the Chunyun period, with thirty flights especially placed to Hong Kong and Macau and another ten flights to international destinations in Southeast Asia and Korea. Cross-strait flights between Taiwan and mainland China were also permitted during this period before regular year-round flights were established. To prevent accidents in the air, the Chinese government has brought in very strict regulations on not overloading planes. The General Administration of Civil Aviation of China (CAAC) estimates at least 36 million passengers will fly during the 2009 Chunyun period.\n\nIn Taiwan, spring travel is also a major event. \n\nThe majority of transportation before the Lunar New Year in western Taiwan is southbound long distance travel, in which people travel from the urbanized north to their hometowns in the rural south. Transportation in eastern Taiwan and between Taiwan and outlying islands is somewhat less convenient. Cross-strait flights between Taiwan and mainland China began in 2003 as part of Three Links, mostly for \"Taiwanese businessmen\" to return to Taiwan for the New Year. After the New Year, there are many local family tours throughout the holidays. On the second and the third day, there is a second wave of medium-long distance travel when the families go to the hometowns of the wives. Near the end of the holidays there is a wave of northbound returning travels which is less concentrated than the southbound travels. In 2012, on the second day of the Lunar New Year, there were an estimated 3 million cars on the island's freeways, and on the 8th day (the Friday of the holiday week) there were \"2.7 million vehicles, about 1.7 times the average daily traffic volume of about 1.6 million.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52250", "title": "Darmstadt", "text": "Darmstadt\n\nDarmstadt () is a city in the state of Hesse in Germany, located in the southern part of the Rhine-Main-Area (Frankfurt Metropolitan Region). Darmstadt had a population of around 157,437 at the end of 2016. The Darmstadt Larger Urban Zone has 430,993 inhabitants.\n\nDarmstadt holds the official title \"City of Science\" () as it is a major centre of scientific institutions, universities, and high-technology companies. The European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) is located in Darmstadt, as well as GSI Centre for Heavy Ion Research, where several chemical elements such as bohrium (1981), meitnerium (1982), hassium (1984), darmstadtium (1994), roentgenium (1994), and copernicium (1996) were discovered. The existence of the following elements were also confirmed at GSI Centre for Heavy Ion Research: nihonium (2012), flerovium (2009), moscovium (2012), livermorium (2010), and tennessine (2012). The Facility for Antiproton and Ion Research (FAIR) is an international accelerator facility under construction. Darmstadt is also the seat of the world's oldest pharmaceutical company, Merck, which is the city's largest employer.\n\nDarmstadt was formerly the capital of a sovereign country, the Grand Duchy of Hesse and its successor, the People's State of Hesse, a federal state of Germany. As the capital of an increasingly prosperous duchy, the city gained some international prominence and remains one of the wealthiest cities in Europe. In the 20th century, industry (especially chemicals), as well as large science and electronics (later information technology) sectors became increasingly important, and are still a major part of the city's economy. It is also home to the football club SV Darmstadt 98.\n\nThe name Darmstadt first appears towards the end of the 11th century, then as \"Darmundestat\". Its origins are unknown. 'Dar-mund' in Middle Low German is translated as \"Boggy Headlands\", but it could be a misspelling in local dialect of another name. It is sometimes stated that the name derives from the 'Darmbach' (a small stream formerly running through the city). In fact, the stream received its current name much later, after the city, not \"vice versa\".\n\nDarmstadt was chartered as a city by the Holy Roman Emperor Ludwig the Bavarian in 1330, at which time it belonged to the counts of Katzenelnbogen. The city, then called \"Darmstait\", became a secondary residence for the counts, with a small castle established at the site of the current, much larger edifice.\n\nWhen the house of Katzenelnbogen became extinct in 1479, the city was passed to the Landgraviate of Hesse, and was seat of the ruling landgraves (1567–1806) and thereafter (to 1918) of the grand dukes of Hesse.\n\nThe city grew in population during the 19th century from little over 10,000 to 72,000 inhabitants. A polytechnical school, which later became a Technical University now known as TU Darmstadt, was established in 1877.\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, Darmstadt was an important centre for the art movement of Jugendstil, the German variant of Art Nouveau. Annual architectural competitions led to the building of many architectural treasures of this period. Also during this period, in 1912 the chemist Anton Kollisch, working for the pharmaceutical company Merck, first synthesised the chemical MDMA (ecstasy) in Darmstadt. Darmstadt's municipal area was extended in 1937 to include the neighbouring localities of Arheilgen and Eberstadt, and in 1938 the city was separated administratively from the surrounding district (\"Kreis\").\n\nDarmstadt was the first city in Germany to force Jewish shops to close in early 1933, shortly after the Nazis took power in Germany. The shops were only closed for one day, for \"endangering communal order and tranquility\". In 1942, over 3,000 Jews from Darmstadt were first forced into a collection camp located in the Liebigschule, and later deported to concentration camps where most eventually died.\n\nSeveral prominent members of the German resistance movement against the Nazis were citizens of Darmstadt, including Wilhelm Leuschner and Theodor Haubach, both executed for their opposition to Hitler's regime.\n\nDarmstadt was first bombed on 30 July 1940, and 34 other air raids would follow before the war's end. The old city centre was largely destroyed in a British bombing raid on 11 September 1944. This attack was an example of the \"firestorm\" technique, which was subsequently used against the historic city of Dresden in February 1945. To create a firestorm, a number of incendiary bombs are dropped around the city before the explosive blast bombs are dropped, thus beginning a self-sustaining combustion process in which winds generated by the fire ensure it continues to burn until everything possible has been consumed. Darmstadt was selected as the secondary target for the raid, but was promoted to the primary target after clouds were observed over the primary which would have hindered any reconnaissance of the after-effects. During this fire attack an estimated 11,000 to 12,500 of the inhabitants burned to death, and 66,000 to 70,000 were left homeless. Over three quarters of Darmstadt's inner city was destroyed. Post-war rebuilding was done in a relatively plain architectural style, although a number of the historic buildings were rebuilt to their original appearance following the city's capture on 20 March 1945 by the American 4th Armored Division.\n\nThroughout the 19th and 20th centuries, Darmstadt became home to many technology companies and research institutes, and has been promoting itself as a \"city of science\" since 1997. It is well known as a high-tech centre in the vicinity of Frankfurt Airport, with important activities in spacecraft operations (the European Space Operations Centre, European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites), chemistry, pharmacy, information technology, biotechnology, telecommunications (substantial Deutsche Telekom presence) and mechatronics. In 2000, its region also scored Rank 3 amongst 97 German regions in the \"WirtschaftsWoche\" test ranking Germany's high-tech regions.\n\nThe roots of Darmstadt University of Applied Sciences goes back to 1876 along with Technische Universität Darmstadt(\"the first electrical engineering chair and inventions fame\"), when both these Universities were an integrated entities, a need for a separate industry based research educational institution was felt in the early 1930s, finally University of Applied sciences emerged as a separate industry based research educational institution in 1971 and is the largest University of Applied Sciences in Hesse (German: Hessen) with about 11,000 students.\n\nThe TU Darmstadt is one of the important technical institutes in Germany and is well known for its research and teaching in the Electrical, Mechanical and Civil Engineering disciplines. Together with other tertiary institutions, the TU is responsible for the large student population of the city, which stood at 33,547 in 2004.\n\nDarmstadt has nine official 'Stadtteile' (boroughs). These are:\n\n\n\nDarmstadt is highly connected to all means of transportation, including the Autobahn Network, the Intercity-Express Network and a major international airport.\n\nDarmstadt is connected to a number of major roads, including two Autobahnen (Bundesautobahn 5 and Bundesautobahn 67). The main road passing west-east is the Bundesstraße 26, the Bundesstraße 3 runs north-south. The rural areas east of the city in the Odenwald are accessed by several secondary roads.\n\nThe extensive public transport system of Darmstadt is integrated in the RMV (the transportation authority of the Frankfurt Metropolitan Area). The backbone of public transport in Darmstadt is its modern tram system with 9 lines and a local bus service serving all parts of the city. Darmstadt is furthermore connected to the Frankfurt S-Bahn system and being served by regional bus lines. Furthermore, regional rail lines (R64, R65, R66) connect six secondary railway stations within the city.\n\nDarmstadt is connected to the Frankfurt rapid transit network by S-Bahn line S3. Besides that, a number of regional trains connect secondary railway stations within Darmstadt and the region with Darmstadt Hauptbahnhof (main station), offering a net of inner city and regional train links.\n\nBy its main railway station \"Darmstadt Hauptbahnhof\", which is located in the western part of the central city, Darmstadt is connected to the rest of Germany and Europe by the Intercity-Express network and other long-distance trains. Darmstadt Hauptbahnhof is a busy station with 12 platforms which serves as a transportation hub for the southern Hesse/Odenwald region.\n\nDarmstadt can be easily accessed from around the world via Frankfurt Airport (\"Flughafen Frankfurt am Main\") which is located\n from central Darmstadt and connected to it via Autobahn 5, S-Bahn, several bus lines and a direct express bus-link (\"Airliner\"). The airport ranks among the world's busiest airports by passenger traffic and is the second-busiest airport by cargo traffic in Europe. The airport also serves as the main hub for German flag carrier Lufthansa.\n\nFrankfurt Egelsbach Airport (\"Flugplatz Frankfurt-Egelsbach\") is a busy general aviation airport located 5 km north of Darmstadt, near the town of Egelsbach.\n\nDespite the name, Frankfurt Hahn Airport (\"Flughafen Frankfurt-Hahn\") is located far outside the Frankfurt Metro Area, approximately away in Lautzenhausen (Rhineland-Palatinate). Hahn Airport is a major base for low-cost carrier Ryanair. This airport can only be reached by car or bus.\n\nDarmstadt is being served by several national and European bus links which connect Darmstadt with other German and European cities.\n\nDarmstadt was the capital of an independent country (the Grand Duchy of Hesse) until 1871 and the capital of the German state of Hesse until 1945. It is due to its past as a capital city that it has many architectural testimonies of this period. Many of its major architectural landmarks were created by Georg Moller who was appointed the court master builder of the Grand Duchy of Hesse. Due to the fact that the last ruling Grand Duke of Hesse, Ernst Ludwig was a grandson of Queen Victoria and brother to Empress Alexandra of Russia, the architecture of Darmstadt has been influenced by British and Russian imperial architecture with many examples still existing, such as the Luisenplatz with its grand-ducal column, the old Hessian State Theatre (at Karolinenplatz) and the Russian Chapel by Leon Benois. The Russian church, St. Mary Magdalene Chapel, is named in honor of the patron saint of Tsar Nicholas' mother and was built of Russian stone on Russian soil brought to Darmstadt by train. It was used by the Russian imperial family and court during regular visits to the Tsarina's brother and family in Darmstadt. The grand-ducal palace of Darmstadt is located in the city centre. It was the residence of the counts of Hesse-Darmstadt, later as Grand Dukes of Hesse by the grace of Napoleon. The rulers of Hesse also owned a hunting lodge in Kranichstein which is a nowadays used as a five star hotel. The most famous castle in the Darmstadt region is Frankenstein Castle due to claims that the real castle may have had an influence on Mary Shelley's decision to choose the name Frankenstein for her monster-creating scientist. This castle dates back to the 13th century, but it was acquired by the counts of Hesse-Darmstadt in 1662.\n\nDarmstadt has a rich tradition in modern architecture. After 1945 several \"Meisterbauten\" (\"Masterful Architectonic Creations\") were built that set standards for modern architecture. These buildings still exist and are used for various public and private purposes. In the late 1990s the Waldspirale ('Forest Spiral') was built, a residential complex by Austrian Friedensreich Hundertwasser. As an almost surreal building, it is internationally famous for its almost absolute rejection of rectangular forms, down to every window having a different shape, the style being a trademark of Hundertwasser's work. Hundertwasser died before the Waldspirale was finished.\n\nDarmstadt was a centre of the Art Nouveau movement. Surviving examples of the Jugendstil period include the Rosenhöhe, a landscaped English-style rose garden from the 19th century, recently renovated and replanted, the Mathildenhöhe, with the \"Hochzeitsturm\" ('Wedding tower', also commonly known as the 'Five-Finger-Tower') by Joseph Maria Olbrich, the Russian Chapel in Darmstadt and large exhibition halls as well as many private villas built by Jugendstil architects who had settled in Darmstadt. German Art Nouveau is commonly known by its German name, Jugendstil. The name is taken from the artistic journal, Die Jugend, which was published in Munich and which espoused the new artistic movement. It was founded in 1896 by Georg Hirth (Hirth remained editor until his death in 1916, and the magazine continued to be published until 1940). The magazine was instrumental in promoting the style in Germany. As a result, its name was adopted as the most common German-language term for the style: Jugendstil (\"young style\"). Although, during the early 20th century, the word was applied to only two-dimensional examples of the graphic arts, especially the forms of organic typography and graphic design found in and influenced by German magazines like Jugend, Pan, and Simplicissimus, it is now applied to more general manifestations of Art Nouveau visual arts in Germany, the Netherlands, the Baltic states, and Nordic countries. The two main centres for Jugendstil art in Germany were Munich and Darmstadt.\n\nThe \"Luisenplatz\", the central square of the city, forms the centre of the city and is the main public transport hub. In 1844 the \"Ludwigsäule\" (called \"Langer Lui\", meaning \"Long Ludwig\"), a 33-metre column commemorating Ludwig I, first Grand Duke of Hesse, was placed in the middle of the square. While the column still stands, the square is today surrounded by mostly modern buildings. Other important squares are the \"Marktplatz\" (see image) near the old city hall and the \"Sabaisplatz\" at the \"Mathildenhöhe\".\n\nThe city has a high density of parks. Among the most important parks are the English style \"Herrngarten\" in central Darmstadt. In former times it was part of the Royal Gardens used exclusively by the dukes of Darmstadt. Today it is a public park, heavily used in every season of the year. Other important parks are the French style parks \"Prinz-Georgs-Garten\" and \"Orangerie\", the modern style \"Bürgerpark\" (\"People's Park\") in northern Darmstadt and the mystical \"Park Rosenhöhe\", (\"Rose Heights\") which also serves as the cemetery for the dukes, with two impressive mausoleum buildings in its remote parts. The Botanischer Garten in eastern Darmstadt is a botanical garden maintained by the Darmstadt University of Technology with a fine collection of rare plants and trees.\n\nThe Protestant \"Stadtkirche\" church, built in 1369, is in the pedestrian zone of the downtown city center, next to the historic Hotel Bockshaut. The church has gothic elements along with renaissance and baroque, it houses the royal crypt. Hotel Bockshaut was built in 1580 for a church presbytery. The most important Catholic Church is \"St. Ludwig\" in central Darmstadt. The Russian Chapel in Darmstadt is a Russian orthodox church which is still in use. It was built and used as a private chapel by the last Tsar of Russia, Nicholas II, whose wife Alexandra was born in Darmstadt. Although Russian orthodox churches also exist in other cities outside Russia, the Russian Chapel in Darmstadt was the only official Russian church used by the Tsar outside the Russian Empire. It is said that the chapel was built on Russian soil that was brought to Darmstadt exclusively for the purpose of building the Tsar's private chapel on it.\n\nEvery year on the first weekend of july the Heinerfest festival is held in the streets surrounding the old ducal palace. It is a traditional German festival with music acts, beer halls, amusement rides and booths selling trinkets and food. The similar 'Schloßgrabenfest', which is more live music-oriented, is held in the same location every year in May.\nThese two festivals attract 700,000 and 400,000 visitors respectively.\n\nDarmstadt has a rich cultural heritage. The Staatstheater Darmstadt (\"State Theatre Darmstadt\") dates back to the year 1711. The present building has been in use since 1972 and has three halls which can be used independently. The \"Grand Hall\" (\"Großes Haus\") provides seats for 956 people and serves as Darmstadt's opera house. The \"Small Hall\" (\"Kleines Haus\") is mostly used for plays and dance and has 482 seats. A separate small hall (\"Kammerspiele\") with 120 seats is used for chamber plays.\n\nAmong the museums in Darmstadt the most important are the \"Hessisches Landesmuseum\" (Hessian State Museum), the \"Porcelain Museum\" (exhibition of the ducal porcelain), the \"Schlossmuseum\" (exhibition of the ducal residence and possessions), the \"Kunsthalle Darmstadt\" (exhibitions of modern art), the exhibition centre \"Mathildenhöhe\" and the \"Museum Künstlerkolonie\" (Art Nouveau museum).\n\nThe Jazz-Institut Darmstadt is Germany's largest publicly accessible jazz archive.\n\nThe Internationales Musikinstitut Darmstadt, harboring one of the world's largest collections of post-war sheet music, also hosts the biennial \"Internationale Ferienkurse für Neue Musik\", a summer school in contemporary classical music founded by Wolfgang Steinecke. A large number of avant-garde composers have attended and given lectures there, including Olivier Messiaen, Luciano Berio, Milton Babbitt, Pierre Boulez, Luigi Nono, John Cage, György Ligeti, Iannis Xenakis, Karlheinz Stockhausen, Mauricio Kagel, and Helmut Lachenmann.\n\nThe Deutsche Akademie für Sprache und Dichtung provides writers and scholars with a place to research the German language. The Academy's annual Georg Büchner Prize, named in memory of Georg Büchner, is considered the most prestigious literary award for writers of German language.\n\nDarmstadt is located in the Upper Rhine Plain (German: Oberrheinische Tiefebene), a major rift, about 350 km long and on average 50 km wide, between the cities of Frankfurt in the north and Basel in the south. Darmstadt's southeastern boroughs are located in the spurs of the Odenwald, a low mountain range in Southern Hesse between the Main and Neckar rivers.\n\nSouthern Hesse is well known for its mild climate which allows winegrowing on a large scale in the region south of Darmstadt. The weather is often volatile with the summers being warm and humid with frequent thunderstorms, the winters mostly relatively mild with frequent periods of high fog. Snowfall is most likely in January and February, but mild winters without considerable snowfall can occur.\n\nThe City of Darmstadt offers students a broad variety of public primary, secondary and tertiary schools. Besides them private schools exist, e.g. the catholic secondary school \"Edith-Stein-Schule\", the Adventists' \"Schulzentrum Marienhöhe\", an anthroposophic \"Waldorf School\", a \"Comenius\" \"School\" and other faith based private schools.\n\n\nDarmstadt is home to many research institutions such as the Fraunhofer Society (Fraunhofer IGD, Fraunhofer LBF, Fraunhofer SIT) and the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung (GSI, \"Society for Heavy Ion Research\"), which operates a particle accelerator in northern Darmstadt. The GSI, amongst other elements, discovered the chemical element darmstadtium (atomic number: 110), named after the city in 2003. This makes Darmstadt one of only eight settlements with elements named after them (the others being Ytterby in Sweden (four elements); Stockholm in Sweden (holmium); Strontian in Scotland; Copenhagen in Denmark (whose Latin name gives hafnium); Paris (whose Latin name gives lutetium); Berkeley, California; and Dubna in Russia). Various other elements, including meitnerium (atomic number: 109) (1982), hassium (atomic number: 108) (1984), roentgenium (atomic number: 111) (1994) and copernicium (atomic number: 112) (1996) were also synthesized in the Darmstadt facility.\n\nThe European Space Operations Centre (ESOC) of the European Space Agency is located in Darmstadt. From here, various deep-space exploration spacecraft and Earth-orbiting satellites are operated for the purposes of scientific research, and technology development and demonstration.\n\nEUMETSAT, the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites, operates the principal European meteorological satellites from its headquarters, including the first and second generations of Meteosat geostationary satellites, and the polar-orbiting Metop series.\n\nDarmstadt is a centre for the pharmaceutical and chemical industry, with Merck, Röhm and Schenck RoTec (part of The Dürr Group) having their main plants and centres here.\n\nU.S. forces entered the city of Darmstadt on 25 March 1945. At the end of World War II, Darmstadt was among the 112 communities where U.S. forces were stationed. Early units stationed here included elements of the U.S. Constabulary, Air Force units and a Quartermaster School.\n\nOver the years, the U.S. military community Darmstadt — under a variety of designations — served as home for thousands of American soldiers and their families. It included six principal installations in Darmstadt and nearby Babenhausen, Griesheim and Münster, plus several housing areas, an airfield and a large number of smaller facilities as far away as Bensheim and Aschaffenburg. The military newspaper European \"Stars and Stripes\" also had its headquarters there. As of 1993, the Darmstadt military community also assumed responsibility for the remaining U.S. Army facilities in the Frankfurt area.\n\nAs part of the U.S. Army's ongoing transformation in Germany, the Darmstadt military community, by then designated U.S. Army Garrison Darmstadt, inactivated on 30 September 2008. Even after the garrison inactivation, however, there is still one unit active in Darmstadt: The 66th Military Intelligence Group at the Dagger Complex on Eberstädter Weg. It draws its support from the nearby U.S. Army Garrison Wiesbaden. The website of the 66th Military Intelligence Brigade claims they moved out in 2008, but Google Maps and Bing satellite imagery still show a respectively full and quarter-full parking lot, and the U.S. Army Garrison Wiesbaden's website mentions the unit still being active in Darmstadt, and a Marine Corps company being stationed there as well. With the exception of Dagger Complex, all remaining US installations are now empty and closed to the public, pending property disposal by the German authorities.\n\n\n\n\nDarmstadt is twinned with:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "840171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=840171", "title": "Einsiedeln Abbey", "text": "Einsiedeln Abbey\n\nEinsiedeln Abbey () is a Benedictine monastery in the village of Einsiedeln in the canton of Schwyz, Switzerland. The abbey is dedicated to Our Lady of the Hermits, the title being derived from the circumstances of its foundation, for the first inhabitant of the region was Saint Meinrad, a hermit. It is a territorial abbey and, therefore, not part of a diocese, subject to a bishop. It has been a major resting point on the Way of St. James for centuries.\n\nMeinrad was educated at the abbey school on Reichenau Island, in Lake Constance, under his kinsmen, Abbots Hatto and Erlebald, where he became a monk and was ordained a priest. After some years at Reichenau, and at a dependent priory on Lake Zurich, he embraced an eremitical life and established his hermitage on the slopes of the mountain of Etzel. He died on January 21, 861, at the hands of two robbers who thought that the hermit had some precious treasures, but during the next 80 years the place was never without one or more hermits emulating Meinrad's example. One of them, named Eberhard, previously Provost of Strassburg, erected in 934 a monastery and church there, of which he became first abbot. \n\nThe church was miraculously consecrated, so the legend runs, in 948, by Christ himself assisted by the Four Evangelists, St. Peter, and St. Gregory the Great. This event was investigated and confirmed by Pope Leo VIII and subsequently ratified by many of his successors, the last ratification being by Pope Pius VI in 1793, who confirmed the acts of all his predecessors. \n\nIn 965 Gregory, the third Abbot of Einsiedeln, was made a prince of the Holy Roman Empire by Emperor Otto I, and his successors continued to enjoy the same dignity up to the cessation of the empire in the beginning of the 19th century. In 1274 the abbey, with its dependencies, was created an independent principality by Rudolf I of Germany, over which the abbot exercised temporal as well as spiritual jurisdiction. It remained independent until 1798, the year of the French invasion. It is still a territorial abbey, meaning that it is located in a territory that is not part of any diocese which the abbot governs \"as its proper pastor\" (Canon 370, \"Codex Juris Canonici\") with the same authority as a diocesan bishop.\n\nFor the learning and piety of its monks, Einsiedeln has been famous for a thousand years, and many saints and scholars have lived within its walls. The study of letters, printing, and music have greatly flourished there, and the abbey has contributed largely to the glory of the Benedictine Order. It is true that discipline declined somewhat in the fifteenth century and the rule became relaxed, but Ludovicus II, a monk of St. Gall who was Abbot of Einsiedeln 1526-44, succeeded in restoring the stricter observance. \n\nIn the 16th century the religious disturbances caused by the spread of the Protestant Reformation in Switzerland were a source of trouble for some time. Zwingli himself was at Einsiedeln for a while, and used the opportunity for protesting against the famous pilgrimages, but the storm passed over and the abbey was left in peace. Abbot Augustine I (1600–29) was the leader of the movement which resulted in the erection of the Swiss Congregation of the Order of St. Benedict in 1602, and he also did much for the establishment of unrelaxed observance in the abbey and for the promotion of a high standard of scholarship and learning amongst his monks. \n\nThe pilgrimages, just mentioned, which have never ceased since the days of St Meinrad, have tended to make Einsiedeln the rival even of Rome, the Holy House of Loreto and Santiago de Compostela, serving as a major stopping point on the Way of St. James leading there. Pilgrimages constitute one of the features for which the abbey is chiefly celebrated. The pilgrims number around one million, from all parts of Catholic Europe or even further. The statue of Our Lady from the 15th century, enthroned in the little chapel erected by Eberhard, is the object of their devotion. It is the subject of the earliest preserved print of pilgrimage, by the Master E.S. in 1466. The chapel stands within the great abbey church, in much the same way as the Holy House at Loreto is encased in a marble shrine and is elaborately decorated.\n\nSeptember 14 and October 13 are the chief pilgrimage days, the former being the anniversary of the miraculous consecration of Eberhard's basilica and the latter that of the translation of St Meinrad's relics from Reichenau Island to Einsiedeln in 1039. The millennium of St Meinrad was kept there with great splendour in 1861 as well as that of the Benedictine monastery in 1934. The great church has been many times rebuilt, the last time by Abbot Maurus between the years 1704 and 1719. The last big renovation ended after more than twenty years in 1997. The library contains nearly 250,000 volumes and many priceless manuscripts. The work of the monks is divided chiefly between prayer, work and study. At pilgrimage times the number of confessions heard is very large. \n\nIn 2013 the community numbered 60 monks. Attached to the abbey are a seminary and a college for about 360 pupils who are partially taught by the monks, who also provide spiritual direction for six convents of Religious Sisters.\n\nIn 1854, when the monastery was again facing suppression, a colony was sent to the United States from Einsiedeln to minister to the local German-speaking population and to develop a place of refuge, if needed. The delegation started a new foundation, now St. Meinrad Archabbey in St. Meinrad, Indiana, which became part of the Swiss-American Congregation formed in 1881. As of 01 April 2018, the Swiss-American Congregation consists of 14 monasteries from Canada to Guatemala, five of which were founded from St. Meinrad Archabbey and its daughter houses.\n\nOne of the abbey's apostolates is a school (\"Gymnasium\") for the seventh to twelfth grades which has existed in its present form since 1848. It is the continuation of a tradition of education that dates to the early Middle Ages. Its distinguished alumni include Gall Morel, Franz Fassbind, Philipp Etter, Hans Hürlimann and his son Thomas Hürlimann, Bruno Frick, and Anatole Taubman.\n\nLocated in separate cantons, Einsiedeln Abbey and Fahr Monastery, a community of Benedictine nuns, form a double monastery, both under the authority of the Abbot of Einsiedeln.\n\nThe western lake shore town wall respectively the fortifications of Rapperswil probably were built in the early 13th century by the Counts of Rapperswil. The so-called \"Endingen\" area in Rapperswil was given as a fief by the Einsiedeln Abbey which is still owner of the land, including the site where the Capuchin monastery was built. That's why the adjoint building traditionally was named \"Einsiedlerhaus\", meaning \"house of the Einsiedeln abbey\". Historians mention a 10th-century ferry station located there – in 981 AD as well as the abbey's vineyard on the Lindenhof hill – between Kempraten on Kempratnerbucht, the Lützelau and Ufenau islands and assumably present Hurden. The ferry services allowed the pilgrims towards Einsiedeln to cross the lake before the prehistoric Holzbrücke Rapperswil-Hurden at the Seedamm isthmus was re-built between 1358 and 1360. Endingen, the \"Einsiedlerhaus\", and even the lake area are still in the possession of the Einsiedeln abbey, as well as the Ufenau island.\n\n\nThe monastery complex, the abbey's library, archives and music collection are listed in the Swiss inventory of cultural property of national and regional significance as \"Class A\" objects of national importance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19888098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19888098", "title": "Eqrem Vlora", "text": "Eqrem Vlora\n\nEqrem Vlora (1 December 1885 – 25 May 1964) also known as Ekrem bey Vlora, was an Albanian lord, politician, writer, and one of the delegates to the Assembly of Vlorë, which proclaimed the Albanian Declaration of Independence in November 28, 1912.\n\nHe was born in Vlora, the son of Syrja Bey Vlora, member of one of the wealthiest landowning families of the south. He was related both to Ismail Qemali and also to his main political opponent Esad Pasha, who were both his uncles from his father's and mother's side respectively. He was educated at the Theresianum in Vienna, 1899–1903, and studied law and religion in Istanbul, 1904. After working for the Ottoman Foreign Ministry for a time, including a three-month tour of duty at the Ottoman embassy in St. Petersburg in 1907, and years of travel in Europe, Albania and the Orient, he joined his uncle Ismail Qemali in the movement for Albanian independence. During these travels he met some of the most important personalities of the time, including Herbert Kitchener, Franz Conrad von Hotzendorf, several Arab sheikhs who would become the monarchs of the Arab countries and also a young lieutenant, Mustafa Kemal, who would eventually become the president of Turkey. According to Vlora's memoirs, members of his family were \"de facto\" (not \"de jure\") sanjakbeys of Sanjak of Avlona in period 1481—1828.\n\nIn mid-October, Vlora arrived in Vienna after being sent on a mission by Albanian notables of middle and south central Albania to seek support from Austro-Hungarian officials regarding Albania's future and its borders especially along the Kalamas river and the inclusion of Chameria up to Preveza. During the Balkan Wars, he was given the rank of reserve major and the command of a territorial battalion for the defense of Vlora by the Turkish commander in Ioannina. After several successful skirmishes with the Greek forces in the area of Himarë, he was recalled to Vlora by his uncle, Ismail bey.\n\nIn 1912, he was made deputy president of the senate. He was sent in Neuwied to meet the Prince Wilhelm of Wied, chosen to rule Albania. Later, he served in the Foreign Ministry during the Prince's reign and was distinguished as the commander of a volunteer artillery battery during the attack of peasant rebels on Durrës. He also received the Order of the Eagle for gallantry shown during the siege. He was a known supporter of the Central Powers during World War I for which reason he kept under arrest in Italy during most of the war but subsequently became a promoter of close relations between Italy and Albania. He was friendly towards the Italian commanders during the Italian invasion of Vlora in 1920. Vlora was elected to parliament in 1924, representing a conservative wing and, in 1925, became a senator for a short period of time. His relations with Ahmet Zogu were tenuous, though he served the latter on various diplomatic missions abroad. He was a close friend of the Bavarian baroness Marie Amelie, Freiin von Godin, with whom he translated the \"Kanun\" of Lekë Dukagjini into German.\n\nVlora welcomed the Italian invasion of April 1939 and had close links to the Italian fascists. In 1942, Mustafa Merlika-Kruja appointed him Minister for Kosovo, the western half of which had been incorporated to Albania. His anti-Slavic policies, however, gave rise to widespread resistance among the Serbs and Montenegrins. In the summer of 1944, he was made Foreign Minister and Minister of Justice before going into Italian exile during the communist takeover. He died in Vienna and was buried at the Neustift am Walde Cemetery till 30 March 2014. Since 30 March 2014 his remains were reinterred in Vlorë.\n\nAs a writer, Eqrem bej Vlora is remembered for his monograph \"Aus Berat und vom Tomor: Tagebuchblätter\" ('From Berat and Tomorr: Pages of a Diary', ), Sarajevo 1911, and, in particular, for his two-volume German-language memoirs, published posthumously as \"Lebenserinnerungen\" ('Memoirs'), Munich 1968, 1973, which provide insight into the world of an early 20th-century Albanian nobleman. They have recently been translated into Albanian as \"Kujtime\" ('Memoirs'), Tirana 2002, and Turkish as \"Osmanli Arnavutluk'undan anilar, 1885-1912\" ('Notes from Ottoman Albania, 1885-1912'), Istanbul 2006. Unpublished remains his monumental 1200-page typescript \"Beiträge zur Geschichte der Türkenherrschaft in Albanien: eine historische Skizze\" ('Contributions to the History of Turkish Rule in Albania: an Historical Sketch'), from which this account of the noble families of Medieval Albania is taken.\n\n"}
{"id": "37262818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37262818", "title": "Farkas Bethlen", "text": "Farkas Bethlen\n\nFarkas Bethlen de Bethlen (1639 – 30 December 1679) was a Hungarian noble and chronicler in the Principality of Transylvania, who served as Chancellor of Transylvania from 1678 to 1679.\n\nFarkas was the son of Ferenc Bethlen, Ispán (Count; \"comes\") of Fehér County, Marshal of George II Rákóczi, and Kata Kemény de Magyargyerőmonostor. He had three sisters and five brothers. He married Borbála Ostrosith.\n\nHe studied in the Unitarian Academy at Kolozsvár (today: \"Cluj-Napoca, Romania\"). After that his educator was Pál Keresztúri in the court of George II Rákóczi. He participated in the Prince's unsuccessful campaign against the Kingdom of Poland in 1657. In the next year Rákóczi commissioned him to negotiate with Habsburg Hungary in Pressburg and Vienna to organize an alliance against the Ottoman Empire which did not tolerate Rákóczi's foreign policy.\n\nFarkas Bethlen served as Master of doorkeepers since March 1659. He also functioned as Ispán of Fehér County from 1661 until his death with a short break. After the death of Rákóczi he was a supporter of princes John Kemény and Michael I Apafi. He was a member of the Royal Council since 1664. He took part in the Battle of Nagyszőlős, where John Kemény was killed. He served as acting Chancellor between 1676 and 1677 when his distant relative János Bethlen was charged with conspiracy. Farkas became Chancellor in 1678 however he died suddenly in the next year. The position remained vacant after his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30540709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30540709", "title": "Frei João Álvares", "text": "Frei João Álvares\n\nFrei João Álvares (Torres Novas, 1400 – Paço de Sousa c. 1490) was a 15th-century Portuguese friar of a military Order, chronicler and writer.\n\nÁlvares served as chamberlain and secretary of the Portuguese royal prince or \"infante\" the holy Ferdinand, the youngest of the 'Illustrious Generation' () – the children of King John I and Philippa of Lancaster). He accompanied Ferdinand on the ill-fated Portuguese campaign to conquer Tangier from Marinid Morocco in 1437. To preserve his army from destruction, Prince Henry the Navigator, commander of the expedition, signed a treaty that agreed to deliver Ceuta (captured by the Portuguese earlier in 1415) back to Morocco. Henry handed over his brother Ferdinand to the Marinids as a noble hostage to ensure the delivery of Ceuta. As a member of his household, Álvares accompanied Ferdinand into Moroccan captivity.\n\nAs it turns out, the Portuguese refused to honor the treaty and deliver Ceuta, with the result that Ferdinand was left in Marinid captivity, first at Asilah, then at Fez, where he eventually died in 1443. However, Álvares was successfully ransomed in 1448, five years after his master's death. He returned to Morocco in 1450 to ransom remaining captives and to collect the relics of Ferdinand, who was now starting to be religiously cultivated as the Holy Prince (\"Infante Santo\") in Portugal.\n\nAfter returning to Portugal, Prince Henry commissioned Álvares to draft a chronicle of Ferdinand's life. Written by Álvares between 1451 and 1460 and first published in Lisbon in 1527, it is one of the few eyewitness accounts of the Battle of Tangiers and the captivity of Ferdinand. Its details are often at odds with the account of official royal chronicler Rui de Pina and, despite being commissioned by Henry, often unflattering of Henry's leadership during the Tangier campaign. Intended as Christian hagiography to promote the saintly cult of Ferdinand, Álvares's chronicle details Ferdinand's patient endurance of the humiliations and sufferings he underwent in Moroccan captivity. But Álvares refrains from endorsing the popular view that Ferdinand had volunteered for martyrdom, making it reasonably clear that Ferdinand originally expected the treaty to be honored and his release to be secured swiftly.\n\nSometime before 1460, Álvares accompanied Isabella of Portugal (Duchess of Burgundy) to Flanders. He is also known to have traveled to Rome in 1470, seeking spiritual indulgences attached to the veneration of Ferdinand.\n\nJoão Álvares was a member of the military order of the Knights of St. Benedict of Aviz and in 1461 was named commendatory abbot of the Benedictine monastery at Paço de Sousa (near Penafiel in northern Portugal). He translated several religious works into Portuguese, including the first edition of \"The Imitation of Christ\" of Thomas à Kempis. He died in Paço de Sousa around 1490.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50750434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50750434", "title": "Frédéric Barbier (historian)", "text": "Frédéric Barbier (historian)\n\nFrédéric Barbier (born 27 August 1952) is a French historian of the book and research director at Centre national de la recherche scientifique.\n\n"}
{"id": "9924698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9924698", "title": "Geofact", "text": "Geofact\n\nA geofact (a portmanteau of \"geology\" and \"artifact\") is a natural stone formation that is difficult to distinguish from a man-made artifact. Geofacts could be fluvially reworked and be misinterpreted as an artifact, especially when compared to paleolithic artifacts.\n\nSome of the proposed criteria for distinguishing geofacts from artifacts for paleolithic specimens resembling debitage have been subjected to evaluation by experimental and actualistic studies. If the artifact has two or more of the following, then the artifact is more than likely to be a geofact.\n\nDistinguishing geofacts from lithic debitage, through experiments and comparisons:\n\nPossible examples include several purported prominent ancient artifacts, such as the Venus of Berekhat Ram and the Venus of Tan-Tan. These are thought by many in the archaeological community to be geofacts. A site which shows an abundance of what are likely geofacts is the Gulf of Cambay.\n\nGeofacts versus artifacts or as British scientists refer “artefacts” are just one of the battles archaeologists go through while excavating a site. In the article, “Artefact-Geofact Analysis of The Lithic Material from The Susiluola Cave,” by Hans-Peter Schulz (2007) whom explained Geofacts are multi-shaped rocks that can be found while archaeologists are trying to find true artifacts during past glacial periods. Glacial periods such as the Eemian interglacial and the Middle Weichselian glaciation located in the northern parts of the world melted and began to move rocks from their original areas while they scraped everything around them. The rock movement created sometimes weapon like spears from smaller rocks and appear as artifacts but instead are just a product of glacial melting. Another element Schulz explained is the mixing of natural and salt water during the glaciations, which changed sediment locations within rocks such as the Susiluola cave located in Finland. Once the ice melted the sediment and ice created some artificial markings on pebble sized rocks. Some elements that could morph rock shapes in caves include sandstone, siltstone and quartzite creating a kinetic process of shaping the rocks. There are measurements Schulz created to distinguish a geofact such as blow angles from a sandstone or quartzite rock with a limit between 45 and 90 degrees, and if the abrasions were rounded these are considered geofacts.\n\nArtifacts are interpreted as geofacts so often that they have entire articles filled with correcting excavations. Archeological geologist Paul V. Henrich (2002) corrects journalist Graham Hancock in article, “Artifacts or Geofacts? Alternative Interpretations of Items from the Gulf of Cambay” of his alleged artifacts found in the Gulf of Cambay, India is geofacts. Henrich illustrates in pictures that these designed artifacts were a combination of cement, layered coarse and fine laminated sand stacked tightly together from lamented lake silts with enough porosity appearing rigid to look like a human design. Other corrections Henrich made were Hancock’s “Cambay pendants” large flat rock objects with a hole in between assumed as jewelry but are naturally formed holes created by marine organisms. Henrich claims during excavations the team should have a geologist on site because they are experts in rock formations to help distinguish between an artifact and geofact.\n\nArtifacts mixed with human remains can certainly contain mixtures of Geofacts. In the article, “The alleged Early Paleolithic artefacts are in reality geofacts: a revision of the site of Konczyce Weilkie 4 in the Moravian Gate, South Poland,” Wiśniewski et. all. (2014), explain when geofacts are mixed with artifacts in a fluvial gravel pit it becomes very difficult to distinguish between the two. Another issue Wisniewski questioned is if the site was livable during the Paleolithic period because artifacts are mobile and therefore would not be found in situ however, rocks that are native to the area would usually be a geofact. A helpful hint to decide if an item is an artifact or geofact is if there are multiple rocks that have similar edges and shapes and this type of rock is in its natural environment then it is most likely a geofact. An argument the previous excavators claimed was that some rocks were found over 140 meters from their original environment meaning they could have been artifacts moved by humans. However this was quickly refuted because evidence in glacial moraines and fluvial-glacial deposits caused many rocks to move a similar distance from their original environment. Clearly distinguishing geofacts from artifacts is not a simple task however, if excavators stick with the proper requirements and assumptions there will be far less misinterpretations in the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13325630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13325630", "title": "Henk Wesseling", "text": "Henk Wesseling\n\nHenk Wesseling (6 August 1937 – 18 August 2018) was a Dutch historian. He was a professor emeritus of contemporary history at Leiden University, former rector of the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study between 1995 and 2002.\n\nIn 1988 he became member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "4885862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4885862", "title": "History of the Aztecs", "text": "History of the Aztecs\n\nThe Aztecs were a Pre-Columbian Mesoamerican people of central Mexico in the 14th, 15th and 16th centuries. They called themselves Mexicah (pronounced [meˈʃikaʔ]). \nThe capital of the Aztec Empire was Tenochtitlan. During the empire, the city was built on a raised island in Lake Angels. Modern-day Mexico City was constructed on the ruins of Tenochtitlan. The Spanish colonisation of the Americas reached the mainland during the reign of Hueyi Tlatoani Moctezuma II (Montezuma II). In 1521, Hernán Cortés, along with an allied army of other Native Americans, conquered the Aztecs through germ warfare (germ theory not being established until 1560 by earliest records, this was an unintentional result of Europeans coming to the New World), siege warfare, psychological warfare, and from direct combat.\n\nFrom 1376 until 1572, the Mexicah were a tributary of Azcapotzalco. The Aztec rulers Acamapichtli, Huitzilihuitl and Chimalpopoca were, in fact, vassals of Tezozomoc, the Tepanec ruler of Azcapotzalco.\n\nWhen Tezozomoc died in 1421, his son Malazia ascended to the throne of Azcapotzalco. Matla (nick name) sought to tighten Azcapotzalco's grip on the nearby city-states in the Valley of Mexico. In the process, Chimalpopoca, tlatoani of Tenochtitlan, was assassinated by Maxtla's agents while Nezahualcoyotl of Texcoco was forced into exile.\n\nIn the Valley of Mexico (c. AD 1250), there existed numerous city-states, including Chalco, Xochimilco, Tlacopan, Culhuacan, and Atzcapotzalco. The most powerful were Culhuacan on the south shore of Lake Texcoco and Azcapotzalco on the west shore.\nAs a result, when the Mexica arrived in the Valley of Mexico as a semi-nomadic tribe, they found most of the area already occupied. In roughly 1248, they first settled on Chapultepec, a hill on the west shore of Lake Texcoco, the site of numerous springs.\nIn time, the Tepanecs of Azcapotzalco ousted the Mexica from Chapultepec and the ruler of Culhuacan, Cocoxtli, gave the Mexicah permission to settle in the empty barrens of Tizaapan in 1299. There they married and assimilated into Culhuacan culture.\nIn 1323, they asked the new ruler of Culhuacan, Achicometl, for his daughter, in order to make her the goddess Yaocihuatl. Unknown to the king, the Mexicah actually planned to sacrifice her. The Mexicah believed that by doing this the princess would join the gods as a deity. As the story goes, during a festival dinner, a priest came out wearing her flayed skin as part of the ritual. Upon seeing this, the king and the people of Culhuacan were horrified and expelled the Mexicah.\nForced to flee, in 1325 they went to a small island on the west side of Lake Texcoco where they began to build their city Tenochtitlan, eventually creating a large artificial island. It is said that the Aztec god, Huitzilopochtli, instructed the Aztecs to found their city at the location where they saw an eagle, on a cactus, with a snake in its talons (which is on the current Mexican flag). The Aztecs, apparently, saw this vision on the small island where Tenochtitlan was founded.\nAnother Mexica (meːˈʃiʔkaʔ) group settled on the north side of this island: this would become the city of Tlatelolco. Originally, this was an independent Mexicah kingdom, but eventually it was absorbed by Tenochtitlan, and treated as a \"fifth\" quadrant. The famous marketplace described by Hernán Cortés and Bernal Diaz del Castillo was actually located in Tlatelolco.\nIn 1376 the Mexica elected their first tlatoani, Acamapichtli, following customs learned from the Culhuacan. These customs required cleaning daily nonstop as a ritual.\n\nThe Triple Alliance of Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and Tlacopan would, in the next 100 years, come to dominate and extend its power to both the Gulf of Mexico and the Pacific shores. From the beginning of the Triple Alliance, Tenochtitlan was mostly in charge of the military and conquest, whereas the other two cities had other responsibilities. This military dominance of Tenochtitlan gradually led to this city becoming the dominant power in the alliance. When the alliance received tributes 2/5 went to Tenochitlan, 2/5 to Texcoco, and 1/5 to Tlacopan.\n\nThe first Tlatoani of the Triple Alliance was Itzcoatl and he, along with his Texcocan co-ruler Nezahualcoyotl, began expanding the territory dominated by the alliance towards the south, conquering Nahua-speaking cities like Cuauhnahuac (now Cuernavaca), and towards Huexotla, Coatlinchan, and Tepoztlan in the modern-day state of Morelos which was then dominated by the Tlahuica. During this period the Nahuan cities immediately on the lakeside, such as Xochimilco, Culhuacan and Mixquic were also subdued.\n\nTwo of the primary architects of the Aztec empire were the half-brothers Tlacaelel and Moctezuma I. They were sons of Huitzilíhuitl, the 3rd \"Hueyi Tlatoani\", half-brothers to have they were called ---> Chimalpopoca, the 4th \"Hueyi Tlatoani\", and nephews of Itzcoatl, the 5th. Moctezuma I succeeded Itzcoatl as the 6th \"Hueyi Tlatoani\" in 1449. Tlacaelel became the power behind the throne and reformed both the Aztec state and the Aztec religion.\n\nMoctezuma I began the expansion in earnest. First he had to reconquer towns which were first conquered by Itzcoatl, but had since rebelled. He asked a number of smaller cities to contribute to the construction of a new Great Temple, and only Chalco refused, which caused Moctezuma to start a war against them which lasted for several years. He then conquered Huastec territory under a pretext of securing Aztec merchants in that area, and then he went to war against the Mixtecs of Coixtlahuaca. Coixtlahuaca was successfully conquered although the Mixtec ruler Atonal received military assistance from the Nahua states of Tlaxcala and Huexotzinco, by now enemies of the Aztecs. After the defeat of Coixtlahuaca many Mixtec artisans were relocated to the Aztec capital. Later Moctezuma marched upon the Totonacan cities of Vera Cruz and conquered \"Xalapa\", \"Cosamaloapan\", Cotaxtla (modern day Cuetlachtlan), Ahuilizapan (Modern day Orizaba) and north into Huastec territory conquering Tuxpan and Xilotepec.\n\nTlacaelel was one of the primary architects of the Aztec empire. Rising to prominence during the war against the Tepanec in the late 1420s, Tlacaelel wielded power as something of a Grand Vizier during the reigns of four \"Hueyi Tlatoani\", until his death in 1487.\n\nTlacaelel recast or strengthened the concept of the Aztecs as a chosen people and elevated the tribal god/hero Huitzilopochtli to the top of the pantheon of gods. In tandem with this, Tlacaelel increased the level and prevalence of human sacrifice, particularly during a period of natural disasters that started in 1446 (according to Durán). During the reign of Moctezuma I, he instigated the flower wars in which the Aztecs fought Tlaxcala and other Nahuan city-states.\n\nTo strengthen the Aztec nobility, he helped create and enforce sumptuary laws, prohibiting commoners from wearing certain adornments such as lip plugs, gold armbands, and cotton cloaks.\n\nAt the start of Tlacaelel's tenure, the Mexica were vassals. By the end, they had become the Aztecs, rulers of a socially stratified and expansionistic empire.\n\nMoctezuma I's son, Axayacatl, ascended to the throne in 1469. During his reign, Tenochtitlan absorbed the kingdom of Tlatelolco. Axayacatl's sister was married to the \"tlatoani\" of Tlatelolco, and, as a pretext for war, Axayacatl declared that she was mistreated.\n\nHe went on to conquer the Matlatzinca and Mazahua cities of Tollocan, Ocuillan, and Malinalco west of the Valley of Mexico.\n\nAt this point Tenochtitlan experienced a brief \"civil war\" when the small city of Tlatelolco, considered a part of Tenochtitlan by the Aztecs, rebelled under their Tlatoani Moquihuix, who sought to ally himself with the longstanding enemies of the Tenochca, the Chalca, Tlaxcalteca, Chololteca and Huexotzinca. The Tlatelolca were defeated and Axayacatl then ordered the execution of all the rulers who had aided him, including the ruler of Xochimilco.\n\nContinuing campaigns in the west in 1479, he suffered an unprecedented defeat by the Purépechas at Tzintzuntzan. This was the Aztecs' first great defeat; once recovered he had to consolidate control of the Huasteca region which had already been conquered by his predecessor.\n\nIn 1481 Axayacatl's brother Tizoc ruled briefly, but his rule was marred by the humiliation he received in his coronation war: fighting the Otomies at Metztitlan he brought home only 40 prisoners for sacrifice at his coronation ceremony. After this defeat Tizoc had to fight principally to maintain control of the already conquered territories, and failing to subdue new towns he was replaced, possibly poisoned, by his younger brother Ahuitzotl.\n\nMoctezuma II was, although many sources depict him otherwise, a notable warrior who extended the tributary system, and consolidated the conquests made by his predecessors as well as conquering new territories. His campaigns reached as far south as Tapachula in the Soconusco region and the Chontal Maya states of Xicallanco in Tabasco. Only the Aztec archenemies of Tlaxcala, Huexotzinco and the Purépecha remained undefeated, as well as the Mixtec kingdoms of Tututepec and Yopitzinco which didn't interest the Aztecs. Thus the Aztec Empire had its largest geographical extent when the Spaniards arrived in 1519. In some sources, it claims that Moctezuma II, and the Aztecs, believed the arriving Spanish to linked to the supposed return of an exiled god, Quetzlcoatl, who was supposed to return pale and bearded.\n\nThe Aztecs were conquered by Spain in 1521 after a long siege of the capital, Tenochtitlan, where much of the population died from hunger and smallpox. Cortés, with 508 Spaniards, did not fight alone but with as many as 150,000 or 200,000 allies from Tlaxcala, and eventually other Aztec tributary states. It was not difficult for Cortes to find allies to fight with him, the Aztecs were not generally liked by the neighbouring city-states. Cuauhtémoc, the last \"Hueyi Tlatoani\" surrendered to Cortés on August 13, 1521.\n\nIt took nearly another 60 years of war before the Spaniards completed the conquest of Mesoamerica (the Chichimeca wars), a process that could have taken longer were it not for three separate epidemics, including a rare strain of paratyphoid fever, that took a heavy toll on the remaining Native American population. The Spanish conquest of Yucatán took almost 170 years.\n\nAfter the fall of Tenochtitlan, most of the other Mesoamerican cultures remained intact. In fact, the conquest of the Aztec empire did not have an immediate impact on other Mesoamerican cultures.\n\nAs allies of the Spaniards, the Tlaxcalans gained the most. The Spaniards would eventually break the alliance, but not until decades later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14986299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14986299", "title": "Jand (Transoxania)", "text": "Jand (Transoxania)\n\nJand (also Jend), was a medieval town on the right bank of the lower Jaxartes river in Transoxiana. It was the winter capital of Seljuk power before their migration to Khurasan, and was ruined by the Mongols, and is now a decayed village.\n\nSighnaq\n\n•C.F. Bosworth, \"The Ghaznavids\", Edinburgh, 1963.\n"}
{"id": "26929219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26929219", "title": "Josip Mikoczy-Blumenthal", "text": "Josip Mikoczy-Blumenthal\n\nDr. Josip Mikoczy-Blumenthal (; February, 1734 in Zagreb – 22 March 1800 in Zagreb) was a Croatian historian and founder of the Theory of Croatian Kurdish origin in 1797.\n\nJosip Mikoczy-Blumenthal was born in Zagreb on 2 March 1734. He finished Jesuit gymnasium in Zagreb and became professor in university in Trnava, Slovakia. Since 1773 he worked as a professor of rhetoric and Greek language. He became librarian in Faculty of Law in Zagreb in 1792 and from 1793 until 1797 he worked in its historiographical department. Dr. Mikoczy-Blumenthal died in 1800.\n\nImportant works of Dr. Mikoczy-Blumenthal include \"Josephi Mikocsi otiorum Croatiae liber unus\" in 1806 which was the first historiographical debate in Croatia and \"Banorum Dalmatiae, Croatiae et Slavoniae ad seculum XIV. perducta series 1792\" in which he gave detailed and thorough list of all Croatian bans through five centuries. Others non published works include \"Lexicon historicum et topographicum\" and \"Geographica descriptio Croatiae et Slavoniae\".\n\nHowever, his most important work is \"Hrvati rodom Slaveni, potekli od Sarmata potomaka Medijaca\" (eng. \"Croats of Slavic group originated from Sarmatians descending from Medians\") which he defended as a doctoral dissertation in Royal Academy in Zagreb in 1797. With this work he became the founder of Croatian Iranian origin theory. According to him Croats were people descending from Medes from western Iran. His dissertation mysteriously disappeared during Yugoslavia in which this theory was officially banned and punishable by law.\n\n"}
{"id": "478716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=478716", "title": "Lenaia", "text": "Lenaia\n\nThe Lenaia () was an annual Athenian festival with a dramatic competition. It was one of the lesser festivals of Athens and Ionia in ancient Greece. The Lenaia took place in Athens in the month of Gamelion, roughly corresponding to January. The festival was in honour of Dionysus Lenaios. \n\n\"Lenaia\" probably comes from \"\"lenos\" 'wine-press' or from \"lenai\"\", another name for the Maenads (the female worshippers of Dionysus).\n\nThe Lenaia is depicted on numerous vases, which show both typical Maenad scenes and those of aristocrats and wine-mixing rituals. It is unknown exactly what kind of worship occurred at the festival, but it may have been in honor of Dionysus as a youth or the rebirth of Dionysus after his murder by the Cyclopes. It may have also had some connection with the Eleusinian Mysteries, as some of the same religious officials were involved (such as the \"Archon basileus \" and the \"epimeletai\"). These officials led the procession (πομπή \"pompe\"), which probably ended with a sacrifice of some kind.\n\nIn Athens, the festival was originally held in the Lenaion (possibly a theatre outside the city or a section of the Agora) but probably moved to the Theatre of Dionysus by the mid-fifth century. Beginning in the second half of the 5th century BCE, plays were performed (as they were at the City Dionysia festival later in the year). The audiences for the Lenaia were usually limited to the local population, since travel by sea at that time of year was considered unsafe. Metics, however, were apparently allowed to both participate and act as \"choregoi\". Around 442 BCE, new comic contests were officially included in the Lenaia, though plays may have been performed there earlier on an informal basis. At first, the festival held dramatic competitions only for comedy, but in 432 BCE a tragic contest was introduced. Many of Aristophanes' plays were first performed there, such as 'Knights'. As with the competition at the City Dionysia, five comedies usually competed (except during the Peloponnesian War when only three were staged). When the contest for tragedy was introduced, two tragedians competed, each presenting two plays. No contests for satyr plays, nor for the singing and dancing of dithyrambs, were included. Towards the end of the century, the festival's plays were performed in the Theatre of Dionysus (though it is unclear when this location was first used). It is unknown when the Lenaia was abandoned, but contests of some sort continued into the 2nd century BCE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31605382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31605382", "title": "Luiz Castanho de Almeida", "text": "Luiz Castanho de Almeida\n\nLuiz Castanho de Almeida (Guareí, November 6, 1904 - Sorocaba, February 28, 1981) was a priest, historian and writer. Son of Colonel Anibal Castanho de Almeida and Ana Candida Rolim. He published several books under the pseudonym of Aluisio de Almeida. In 1918, he entered the seminary and attended Philosophy and Theology. Was ordered a priest on May 8, 1927, the Sorocaba Metropolitan Cathedral. After serving as a priest in Itararé, Itapetininga and Guareí in 1933 moved to Sorocaba, where he moved and took over the parish of \"Bom Jesus dos Aflitos\", in the neighborhood Alem-ponte, Sorocaba. Between 1940 and 1944, he was rector of the diocesan Minor Seminary of São Carlos Borromeu of Sorocaba. He became nationally known for her articles that discuss about folklore, customs, history, biography, and religion. He worked devotedly for the preservation of memory of Sorocaba. He left some 22 books published and unpublished, which are on file of the Historical, Geographical and Genealogical Institute of Sorocaba - Ihggs, located in the \"House of Aluisio de Almeida.\" The library of the University of Sorocaba takes its name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "409215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=409215", "title": "Mary Durack", "text": "Mary Durack\n\nDame Mary Durack AC, DBE (20 February 1913 – 16 December 1994) was an Australian author and historian. She wrote \"Kings in Grass Castles\" and \"Keep Him My Country\".\n\nMary Durack, born in Adelaide, South Australia, to Michael Patrick Durack (1865–1950) and Bessie Durack (née Johnstone), and her siblings lived at the remote Argyle Downs and Ivanhoe cattle stations in the Kimberley region of Western Australia. In the late 1920s and early 1930s Mary and her sister Elizabeth would manage the Ivanhoe cattle station, whilst their brother would leave to manage Argyle Downs. During these times they would live and work very closely with the indigenous people who worked on, and lived near the station. They learnt from the local indigenous women everything from how to cook to how to muster cattle. The Durack family were pioneers in the settlement of the area by Europeans. The story of her family's history, beginning with the mid-19th century migration from Ireland, is presented by Durack in \"Kings in Grass Castles\", and its sequel, \"Sons in the Saddle\".\n\nIn 1935 Mary and her sister, Elizabeth, were to publish their first collaboration. The text in \"All About: The Story of a Black Community on Argyle Station\" was supplied by Mary and the illustrations were by Elizabeth. The collaboration was to produce a number of children's books: \"Chunuma\" in 1936; \"Son of Djaro\" and the \"Way of the Whirlwind\" in 1940–1941;\"The Magic Trumpet\" in 1946 and \"To Ride a Fine Horse\" (1963).\n\nMary Durack wrote under the name \"Virgilia\" for The Western Mail between 1934–38, in a column for women and children in rural areas called Virgilians' Friendly Corner. The column represented some of the first work Durack published as a paid writer, however, she felt limited by the demands of her readers and would often hide in her office to avoid meeting with fans of 'The Corner'. In 1950 she wrote the novel \"Keep Him My Country\". Other important works include the saga of the Durack family, \"Kings in Grass Castles\" (1959) and its sequel, \"Sons in the Saddle\"; and a play, \"Swan River Saga: Life of Early Pioneer Eliza Shaw\" (1976). A biography, \"To Be Heirs Forever\", also used Eliza Shaw as a subject. Durack also continued to write children's literature, most notably the story of the Nyungar man, Yagan, which was published in 1964 as \"The Courteous Savage: Yagan of the Bibbulmun\" and \"Tjakamarra: Boy between two worlds.\"\n\nOther works by Mary Durack included a two–act play, \"Ship of Dreams\"; an Australian Settler (1968); \"The Rock and the Sand\" (1969) is a history of missionaries in the state; \"The Aborigines in Australian Literature\" (1978) is part of the non-fiction component of her work, a subject often forming the basis of many of her works of fiction.\n\nDurack adapted \"Keep Him My Country\" into the libretto for a one-act opera, \"Dalgerie\", by James Penberthy; it premiered in Perth on 22 January 1959. On 25 July 1973, along with Larry Sitsky's \"The Fall of the House of Usher\", it was one of the first two operas to be given an evening performance at the Sydney Opera House.\n\nOn 2 December 1938 she married the aviator, Captain Horrie C. Miller, OBE, who died in 1980. They had two sons and four daughters, including Robin Miller, a famous aviator and nurse who was known as \"The Sugarbird Lady\" after her work fighting polio. Two of Mary Durack's daughters predeceased her.\n\nDurack was appointed a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) for her services to literature on 31 December 1977. On 12 June 1989 she was appointed a Companion of the Order of Australia (AC).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "271786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=271786", "title": "Meliorism", "text": "Meliorism\n\nMeliorism is an idea in metaphysical thinking holding that progress is a real concept leading to an improvement of the world. It holds that humans can, through their interference with processes that would otherwise be natural, produce an outcome which is an improvement over the aforementioned natural one.\n\nMeliorism, as a conception of the person and society, is at the foundation of contemporary liberal democracy and human rights and is a basic component of liberalism.\n\nAnother important understanding of the meliorist tradition comes from the American Pragmatic tradition. One can read about it in the works of Lester Frank Ward, William James, and John Dewey.\n\nMeliorism has also been used by Arthur Caplan to describe positions in bioethics that are in favor of ameliorating conditions which cause suffering, even if the conditions have long existed (e.g. being in favor of cures for common diseases, being in favor of serious anti-aging therapies as they are developed).\n\nA closely related concept discussed by Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Marquis de Condorcet is that of perfectibility of man. \n\nCondorcet's statement, \"Such is the object of the work I have undertaken; the result of which will be to show, from reasoning and from facts, that no bounds have been fixed to the improvement of the human faculties; that the \"perfectibility of man\" is absolutely indefinite; that the progress of this perfectibility, henceforth above the controul of every power that would impede it, has no other limit than the duration of the globe upon which nature has placed us.\" anticipates James' meliorism.\n\nRousseau's treatment is somewhat weaker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23083748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23083748", "title": "New Atheism", "text": "New Atheism\n\nNew Atheism is a term coined in 2006 by the agnostic journalist Gary Wolf to describe the positions promoted by some atheists of the twenty-first century. This modern-day atheism is advanced by a group of thinkers and writers who advocate the view that superstition, religion and irrationalism should not simply be tolerated but should be countered, criticized, and exposed by rational argument wherever their influence arises in government, education, and politics. According to Richard Ostling, Bertrand Russell, in his 1927 essay \"Why I Am Not a Christian\", put forward similar positions as those espoused by the New Atheists, suggesting that there are no substantive differences between traditional atheism and New Atheism.\n\nNew Atheism lends itself to and often overlaps with secular humanism and antitheism, particularly in its criticism of what many New Atheists regard as the indoctrination of children and the perpetuation of ideologies founded on belief in the supernatural. Some critics of the movement characterise it pejoratively as \"militant atheism\" or \"fundamentalist atheism\".\n\nThe Harvard botanist Asa Gray, a believing Christian and one of the first supporters of Charles Darwin's theory of evolution, commented in 1868 that the more worldly Darwinists in England had \"the English-materialistic-positivistic line of thought\". Darwin's supporter Thomas Huxley was openly skeptical, as the biographer Janet Browne describes:\nHuxley was rampaging on miracles and the existence of the soul. A few months later, he was to coin the word \"agnostic\" to describe his own position as neither a believer nor a disbeliever, but one who considered himself free to inquire rationally into the basis of knowledge, a philosopher of pure reason [...] The term fitted him well [...] and it caught the attention of the other free thinking, rational doubters in Huxley's ambit, and came to signify a particularly active form of scientific rationalism during the final decades of the 19th century. [...] In his hands, agnosticism became as doctrinaire as anything else--a religion of skepticism. Huxley used it as a creed that would place him on a higher moral plane than even bishops and archbishops. All the evidence would nevertheless suggest that Huxley was sincere in his rejection of the charge of outright atheism against himself. He refused to be \"a liar\". To inquire rigorously into the spiritual domain, he asserted, was a more elevated undertaking than slavishly to believe or disbelieve. \"A deep sense of religion is compatible with the entire absence of theology,\" he had told [Anglican clergyman] Charles Kingsley back in 1860. \"Pope Huxley\", the [magazine] \"Spectator\" dubbed him. The label stuck.\" —Janet Browne\n\nThe 2004 publication of \"The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason\" by Sam Harris, a bestseller in the United States, was joined over the next couple years by a series of popular best-sellers by atheist authors. Harris was motivated by the events of 11 September 2001, which he laid directly at the feet of Islam, while also directly criticizing Christianity and Judaism. Two years later Harris followed up with \"Letter to a Christian Nation\", which was also a severe criticism of Christianity. Also in 2006, following his television documentary \"The Root of All Evil?\", Richard Dawkins published \"The God Delusion\", which was on the \"New York Times\" best-seller list for 51 weeks.\n\nIn a 2010 column entitled \"Why I Don't Believe in the New Atheism\", Tom Flynn contends that what has been called \"New Atheism\" is neither a movement nor new, and that what was new was the publication of atheist material by big-name publishers, read by millions, and appearing on bestseller lists.\n\nOn 6 November 2015, the \"New Republic\" published an article entitled, \"Is the New Atheism dead?\" The atheist and evolutionary biologist David Sloan Wilson wrote, \"The world appears to be tiring of the New Atheism movement..\" In 2017, PZ Myers who formerly considered himself a new atheist, publicly renounced the New Atheism movement.\n\nOn 30 September 2007, four prominent atheists (Richard Dawkins, Sam Harris, Christopher Hitchens and Daniel Dennett) met at Hitchens' residence in Washington, D.C., for a private two-hour unmoderated discussion. The event was videotaped and titled \"The Four Horsemen\". During \"The God Debate\" in 2010 featuring Christopher Hitchens versus Dinesh D'Souza, the men were collectively referred to as the \"Four Horsemen of the Non-Apocalypse\", an allusion to the biblical Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse from the Book of Revelation. The four have been described disparagingly as \"evangelical atheists\".\n\nSam Harris is the author of the bestselling non-fiction books \"The End of Faith\", \"Letter to a Christian Nation\", \"The Moral Landscape\", and \"\", as well as two shorter works, initially published as e-books, \"Free Will\" and \"Lying\". Harris is a co-founder of the Reason Project.\n\nRichard Dawkins is the author of \"The God Delusion\", which was preceded by a Channel 4 television documentary titled \"The Root of All Evil?\". He is the founder of the Richard Dawkins Foundation for Reason and Science. He wrote: \"I don't object to the horseman label, by the way. I'm less keen on 'new atheist': it isn't clear to me how we differ from old atheists.\"\n\nChristopher Hitchens was the author of \"God Is Not Great\" and was named among the \"Top 100 Public Intellectuals\" by \"Foreign Policy\" and \"Prospect\" magazines. In addition, Hitchens served on the advisory board of the Secular Coalition for America. In 2010 Hitchens published his memoir \"Hitch-22\" (a nickname provided by close personal friend Salman Rushdie, whom Hitchens always supported during and following \"The Satanic Verses\" controversy). Shortly after its publication, Hitchens was diagnosed with esophageal cancer, which led to his death in December 2011. Before his death, Hitchens published a collection of essays and articles in his book \"Arguably\"; a short edition \"Mortality\" was published posthumously in 2012. These publications and numerous public appearances provided Hitchens with a platform to remain an astute atheist during his illness, even speaking specifically on the culture of deathbed conversions and condemning attempts to convert the terminally ill, which he opposed as \"bad taste\".\n\nDaniel Dennett, author of \"Darwin's Dangerous Idea\", \"Breaking the Spell\" and many others, has also been a vocal supporter of The Clergy Project, an organization that provides support for clergy in the US who no longer believe in God and cannot fully participate in their communities any longer.\n\nAfter the death of Hitchens, Ayaan Hirsi Ali (who attended the 2012 Global Atheist Convention, which Hitchens was scheduled to attend) was referred to as the \"plus one horse-woman\", since she was originally invited to the 2007 meeting of the \"Horsemen\" atheists but had to cancel at the last minute. Hirsi Ali was born in Mogadishu, Somalia, fleeing in 1992 to the Netherlands in order to escape an arranged marriage. She became involved in Dutch politics, rejected faith, and became vocal in opposing Islamic ideology, especially concerning women, as exemplified by her books \"Infidel\" and \"The Caged Virgin\". Hirsi Ali was later involved in the production of the film \"Submission\", for which her friend Theo Van Gogh was murdered with a death threat to Hirsi Ali pinned to his chest. This event resulted in Hirsi Ali's hiding and later immigration to the United States, where she now resides and remains a prolific critic of Islam. She regularly speaks out against the treatment of women in Islamic doctrine and society and is a proponent of free speech and the freedom to offend.\n\n\nMany contemporary atheists write from a scientific perspective. Unlike previous writers, many of whom thought that science was indifferent or even incapable of dealing with the \"God\" concept, Dawkins argues to the contrary, claiming the \"God Hypothesis\" is a valid scientific hypothesis, having effects in the physical universe, and like any other hypothesis can be tested and falsified. The late Victor Stenger proposed that the personal Abrahamic God is a scientific hypothesis that can be tested by standard methods of science. Both Dawkins and Stenger conclude that the hypothesis fails any such tests, and argue that naturalism is sufficient to explain everything we observe in the universe, from the most distant galaxies to the origin of life, the existence of different species, and the inner workings of the brain and consciousness. Nowhere, they argue, is it necessary to introduce God or the supernatural to understand reality. New Atheists reject Jesus' divinity.\n\nNon-believers assert that many religious or supernatural claims (such as the virgin birth of Jesus and the afterlife) are scientific claims in nature. They argue, as do deists and Progressive Christians, for instance, that the issue of Jesus' supposed parentage is not a question of \"values\" or \"morals\" but a question of scientific inquiry. Rational thinkers believe science is capable of investigating at least some, if not all, supernatural claims. Institutions such as the Mayo Clinic and Duke University are attempting to find empirical support for the healing power of intercessory prayer. According to Stenger, these experiments have thus far found no evidence that intercessory prayer works.\n\nStenger also argues in his book, \"\", that a God having omniscient, omnibenevolent and omnipotent attributes, which he termed a \"3O God\", cannot logically exist. A similar series of logical disproofs of the existence of a God with various attributes can be found in Michael Martin and Ricki Monnier's \"The Impossibility of God\", or Theodore M. Drange's article, \"Incompatible-Properties Arguments\".\n\nRichard Dawkins has been particularly critical of the conciliatory view that science and religion are not in conflict, noting, for example, that the Abrahamic religions constantly deal in scientific matters. In a 1998 article published in \"Free Inquiry\" magazine and later in his 2006 book \"The God Delusion\", Dawkins expresses disagreement with the view advocated by Stephen Jay Gould that science and religion are two non-overlapping magisteria (NOMA), each existing in a \"domain where one form of teaching holds the appropriate tools for meaningful discourse and resolution\". In Gould's proposal, science and religion should be confined to distinct non-overlapping domains: science would be limited to the empirical realm, including theories developed to describe observations, while religion would deal with questions of ultimate meaning and moral value. Dawkins contends that NOMA does not describe empirical facts about the intersection of science and religion: \"It is completely unrealistic to claim, as Gould and many others do, that religion keeps itself away from science's turf, restricting itself to morals and values. A universe with a supernatural presence would be a fundamentally and qualitatively different kind of universe from one without. The difference is, inescapably, a scientific difference. Religions make existence claims, and this means scientific claims.\"\n\nPopularized by Sam Harris is the view that science and thereby currently unknown objective facts may instruct human morality in a globally comparable way. Harris' book \"The Moral Landscape\" and accompanying TED Talk \"How Science can Determine Moral Values\" propose that human well-being and conversely suffering may be thought of as a landscape with peaks and valleys representing numerous ways to achieve extremes in human experience, and that there are objective states of well-being.\n\nNew Atheism is politically engaged in a variety of ways. These include campaigns to draw attention to the biased privileged position religion has and to reduce the influence of religion in the public sphere, attempts to promote cultural change (centering, in the United States, on the mainstream acceptance of atheism), and efforts to promote the idea of an \"atheist identity\". Internal strategic divisions over these issues have also been notable, as are questions about the diversity of the movement in terms of its gender and racial balance.\n\nThe theologians Jeffrey Robbins and Christopher Rodkey take issue with what they regard as \"the evangelical nature of the New Atheism, which assumes that it has a Good News to share, at all cost, for the ultimate future of humanity by the conversion of as many people as possible.\" They believe they have found similarities between New Atheism and evangelical Christianity and conclude that the all-consuming nature of both \"encourages endless conflict without progress\" between both extremities.\n\nSociologist William Stahl said, \"What is striking about the current debate is the frequency with which the New Atheists are portrayed as mirror images of religious fundamentalists.\"\n\nThe atheist philosopher of science Michael Ruse has made the claim that Richard Dawkins would fail \"introductory\" courses on the study of \"philosophy or religion\" (such as courses on the philosophy of religion), courses which are offered, for example, at many educational institutions such as colleges and universities around the world. Ruse also claims that the movement of New Atheism—which is perceived, by him, to be a \"bloody disaster\"—makes him ashamed, as a professional philosopher of science, to be among those holding to an atheist position, particularly as New Atheism does science a \"grave disservice\" and does a \"disservice to scholarship\" at more general level.\n\nPaul Kurtz, editor in chief of Free Inquiry, founder of Prometheus Books, was critical of many of the new atheists. He said, \"I consider them atheist fundamentalists... They're anti-religious, and they're mean-spirited, unfortunately. Now, they're very good atheists and very dedicated people who do not believe in God. But you have this aggressive and militant phase of atheism, and that does more damage than good\".\n\nJonathan Sacks, author of \"The Great Partnership: Science, Religion, and the Search for Meaning\", feels the new atheists miss the target by believing the \"cure for bad religion is no religion, as opposed to good religion\". He wrote: \nThe philosopher Massimo Pigliucci contends that the new atheist movement overlaps with scientism, which he finds to be philosophically unsound. He writes: \"What I do object to is the tendency, found among many New Atheists, to expand the definition of science to pretty much encompassing anything that deals with 'facts', loosely conceived..., it seems clear to me that most of the New Atheists (except for the professional philosophers among them) pontificate about philosophy very likely without having read a single professional paper in that field... I would actually go so far as to charge many of the leaders of the New Atheism movement (and, by implication, a good number of their followers) with anti-intellectualism, one mark of which is a lack of respect for the proper significance, value, and methods of another field of intellectual endeavor.\"\n\nAtheist professor Jacques Berlinerblau has criticised the New Atheists' mocking of religion as being inimical to their goals and claims that they haven't achieved anything politically.\n\n"}
{"id": "21194784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21194784", "title": "Nikola Milev", "text": "Nikola Milev\n\nProfessor Nikola Iliev Milev () (1881–1925) was a Bulgarian historian, publicist, public figure, diplomat, and a participant in the Macedonian revolutionary movement.\n\nMilev was born in Mokreni (today Variko, Florina regional unit, Greece), a Bulgarian-populated village in Macedonia, then in the Ottoman Empire. He finished the Bulgarian primary school in his birthplace and went with his father to Cairo, Egypt, where he lived for a period. He continued his education in Galatasaray High School in Tsarigrad (Istanbul). In 1902, he was a teacher in Istanbul and worked for Simeon Radev's newspaper \"Evening Mail\". He then studied at the Sofia University, from where he graduated in history (1903–1909). With the recommendations of Professor Vasil Zlatarski and with a Marin Drinov scholarship, Milev specialized history in Vienna, Florence and Rome from 1910 to 1912.\n\nDuring the Balkan Wars, Milev was an interpreter at the headquarters of the Second Bulgarian Army. After the Balkan Wars, he became an associate professor at the Department of Bulgarian History and History of the Balkan Nations at Sofia University (1915–1922).\n\nIn 1918 Milev, became director of the press at the Bulgarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He was among the founders of the political party People's Accord (\"Naroden sgovor\") in 1921. In 1922, he worked as the head of the daily newspaper \"Slovo\" (\"Speech\"). As President of the Association of the Journalists in Sofia, he protected the freedom of speech and press and, as grandmaster of the Zora freemason's lodge, he advocated for the cause of the Macedonian Bulgarians and an autonomous Macedonia. Regardless of his negative attitude towards the policy of the Bulgarian Premier Aleksandar Stamboliyski, Milev was included in the Bulgarian delegation at the Conference of Lausanne in 1922.\n\nNikola Milev was considered among the potential foreign ministers of the new government after the Bulgarian coup d'état of 1923, but was rejected for of fear of the reaction of the State of Slovenes, Croats and Serbs and Greece. He was member of Bulgarian parliament in 1923–1925 and served as adviser to the Bulgarian representation in the League of Nations in Geneva.\n\nIn 1925 Milev was selected as the representative of Bulgaria in the United States, but was killed days before his departure. The decision to kill Milev was taken by a group of Macedonian figures around Dimitar Vlahov. It is believed that Milev was one of the main ideological opponents to the Comintern and its supporters in the Macedonian movement. The decision to murder Milev was approved by Stanke Dimitrov and the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party.\n\nMilev's funeral on 15 February 1925 was one of the most crowded in Sofia in those years. His murder increased tension in the Bulgarian society in this period. The actual killer was captured by Macedonian workers, and after his confession was killed by the Internal Macedonian Revolutionary Organization (IMRO), but instead of the actual instigators, their supporters deputies Todor Strashimirov and Haralampi Stoyanov were killed.\n\nNikola Milev joined IMORO as a student in 1898, but more actively joined the activities of the organizations of Macedonian Bulgarians after 1919. He participated in the activities of the Macedonian brotherhood in Sofia and cooperated with the periodicals of the Macedonian Bulgarians. Although he wasn't an IMRO member after World War I, along with the professors Lyubomir Miletich and Ivan Georgov Nikola Milev was advisor to the leader of IMRO Todor Aleksandrov. Milev was one of the opponents of the communist attempts to take control over Macedonian organizations.\n\nNikola Milev was one of the moral and intellectual leaders of the refugees from Macedonia. Ivan Mihailov describes him thus:\n\n\"\"He possessed a combination of humility and firm conviction. His all person and especially his speech exhales an angelic warmth and security. He spoke simply and cordially. And all that he said was in due measure. He won with by means of his tact, amazed with his mind, conquered through his modesty... He had a chosen place among the elite of Bulgarian intellectuals that was difficult to fill again.\"”\n\nNikola Milev became one of the founders of the Macedonian Scientific Institute in 1923 and was elected to its first Board of Directors.\n\nNikola Milev's research covers various periods of the historical development of the Bulgarian people: from the 7th century until the time of the Bulgarian Revival. He published his first studies in the scientific journals \"Periodical Journal\", \"Proceedings of the Bulgarian Historical Society\" and others. The most famous of his works are those dealing with the Catholic propaganda in Bulgaria during the Ottoman period and the Catholic Bulgarians. His monography of 1914 \"Catholic Propaganda in Bulgaria in the 18th Century\" is highly appreciated and it paved the way to his career of a university professor. This book has been defined as \"brilliant\" in the Bulgarian historiography.\n\nIn the period 1914-1923 Nikola Milev was a free associate professor of history at Sofia University, and from 1923 on was a professor.\n\nIn 1923 Nikola Milev became one of the founders of the Macedonian Scientific Institute and was elected to his first Board of Directors.\n\n"}
{"id": "58346759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58346759", "title": "Ob-Ugric creation myth", "text": "Ob-Ugric creation myth\n\nThe Ob-Ugric creation myth is the genesis story of the world in the mythology of the Khanty and Mansi people of Western Siberia. Their creation myth is very similar to the creation myths of other Uralic peoples, sharing a lot of common elements, such as the skygod, the primordial waterfowl, the primordial waters, etc, but is also similar to the creation myths of many peoples of the northern hemisphere such as the Cherokees, Yukaghirs, Chukchis and Ainus. It is categorised as an Earth diver myth.\"There once lived an old man and an old woman (skygod Numi-Toorum and fertility goddess Kaltaš). They lived in a cottage in the middle of an ocean. They lived like that for a long time, until one day a rumble was heard from the upper sky. The old man looked outside of the window and saw that from the sky fell a loon, who landed on the water and was looking for land. It dived into the water three times, until it finally found a bit of mud and flew with it back to the sky. The next day, a rumble was heard again. The same loon came down from the sky and was looking for land again. After diving into the water three times, it came out with mud on it's beak. The loon rubbed the mud on the house where the old man and old woman lived, and flew back to the sky once again. The mud grew and grew and after three days, the whole world was covered in it.\"\n"}
{"id": "2443341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2443341", "title": "Peter Dawkins (writer)", "text": "Peter Dawkins (writer)\n\nPeter Dawkins (born 12 November 1945) is a philosopher, seer, geomancer, historian, author, lecturer, workshop leader and teacher.\n\nDawkins is a particular specialist in 'landscape temples' and sacred space, the Western wisdom traditions, the 'matter' of Britain, and Baconian and Shakespearean studies.\n\nAfter practising as an architect for nine years in both England and Scotland, from 1978 onwards Dawkins has devoted himself full-time to research, education and healing work in connection with the world's wisdom traditions, mythology, architecture and landscape, with an especial focus on the intimate relationship between the human being, the landscape and the spiritual realms. He teaches, runs courses and leads wisdom tours and geomantic pilgrimages in several countries. He has written many books, newsletters and articles, advised teachers, actors, directors and film-makers, and been interviewed internationally on TV, radio and documentaries.\n\nDawkins is founder and principal of The Francis Bacon Research Trust (FBRT), co-founder and elder of Gatekeeper Trust, and founder of the Zoence Academy and Mystery School which he runs in partnership with his wife Sarah. He has also served as a trustee of the Shakespearean Authorship Trust and of the British Council of the UN University of Peace.\n\nDawkins was born Anthony Peter Dawkins in Birmingham, England, the son and eldest child of David George Dawkins and Jeanne Mary Jefferies. He has one sister, Sally, wife of John Stenning. From childhood he has always had an artistic and visionary gift, including the ability to see angels, etc., which has never left him, but developed further.\n\nDawkins was educated first at Hallfield Preparatory School, Edgbaston, Birmingham (1952–59), then at King Edward VI High School, Edgbaston, Birmingham (1959–1964). In October 1964 he went to St Catharine's College, Cambridge, to study architecture on a 3-year degree course (1964–67) followed by a post-graduate 2-year diploma course (1967–69). Whilst at Cambridge he played as a drummer in the South Side Jazz Band and took part in rowing eights. His other main interests were hill-walking and exploring the landscape generally, sacred and megalithic architecture, classical philosophy and the ancient wisdom traditions. It was during this time that he began to appreciate the powerful effect that the environment has on people in different ways, including health, consciousness and behaviour, and therefore where best to build or not to build, etc., and thought that there should be a proper science concerning this. He also began to perceive earth energies and chakra systems in the landscape.\n\nAfter Cambridge Dawkins entered architectural practice, first with A. G. Sheppard Fidler & Associates in their Birmingham office (1969–1972), becoming a registered architect in October 1971), then with Rowand Anderson Kininmonth & Paul in their Edinburgh office (1972–76), and finally with The Scottish Special Housing Association (1976–78), working in both Edinburgh and Glasgow.\n\nDuring this time Dawkins continued his landscape researches and wisdom studies, together with meditation and other spiritual practices. In addition, shortly after marrying in March 1973, Dawkins was given extraordinary instructions in a dream that threw him directly into research work concerning the philosopher Francis Bacon and the Rosicrucians, and the rich heritage that they have left for us today. Then, in 1978, following a powerful inner calling given in meditation and vision, Dawkins left the practice of architecture to devote himself full-time to research and educational work in connection with the wisdom traditions, the landscape and environment generally, and the Baconian-Rosicrucian-Shakespeare mysteries.\n\nBy this time Dawkins had met Sir George Trevelyan who invited him to speak at Wrekin Trust events, encouraged him to make his landscape research and discoveries known publicly, and introduced him to the poetry and wisdom of Shakespeare. In this way Dawkins started to become a lecturer and teacher. Dawkins had also met Hope Brameld, secretary of the Francis Bacon Society, and the research work started with her in 1973 led eventually, with the help of the Marquess of Northampton and others, to the founding of the Francis Bacon Research Trust as an educational charity in 1980. Dawkins also met Stanley Messenger in the 1970s and, together with him and a group of friends, started a movement that gave rise to the Gatekeeper Trust, registered as an educational charity in 1982. Dawkins was also a trustee and honorary president of the British Council of the UN University for Peace (1986–87), and a trustee of the Shakespearean Authorship Trust (2002–2013).\n\nFrom 1980 onwards Dawkins’ public educational work started in earnest, first of all by means of the FBRT and Gatekeeper Trust, and then also with Zoence Academy, co-founded with his wife Sarah Dawkins in 1994. All three organisations continue to exist and flourish.\n\nThe educational work and geomantic pilgrimages in which Dawkins is involved are or have been in the UK, Republic of Ireland, France, Switzerland, Germany, Denmark, Norway, Spain, Belgium, Austria, Slovenia, Greece, Bulgaria, Turkey, Israel, Egypt, India, South Africa, South America and the USA.\n\nDawkins received an award for distinguished scholarship in Shakespeare Authorship Studies from Concordia University, Portland, Oregon, USA, in April 2008.\n\nThe philosophy and wisdom embodied in the Shakespeare plays has been an important part of Dawkins’ studies, and as a result he has given Wisdom of Shakespeare seminars, summer schools and other events since the mid-1980s, first with Sir George Trevelyan in Warwickshire, then with Mark Rylance at the Shakespeare Globe Theatre, London (1997–2005), and since then with Jill Line in Warwickshire and Mark Rylance elsewhere.\n\nDawkins married Sarah Hiscock on 31 March 1973. They have three children: John, Elene and Samuel.\n\nConcerned especially with the harmonious relationship of humanity with both the spiritual and natural worlds, Dawkins’ pioneering researches, begun in the 1960s, have led directly to a developing art and science of ‘landscape temples’ and ‘geomantic pilgrimage’, and their association with the spiritual or archetypal realms of existence and underlying wisdom or laws of life. This ‘geocosmology’, together with a synthesis of the heart truths of the various wisdom traditions, has been named ‘Zoence’—a word coined by Peter and Sarah Dawkins and meaning ‘science of life’ or ‘pathways of the soul’. Since the 1970s Dawkins has introduced many people of different nations to the concept and experience of both sacred landscape and townscape, as ‘landscape temples’ and ‘townscape temples’, and how to live, serve and pilgrimage within them in healing and life-enhancing ways. The word ‘Zoence’ is registered to Peter Dawkins and Zoence Academy is his business partnership with his wife Sarah. Zoence Academy runs a regular programme of events and hosts an informative website.\n\nThe FBRT specialises in research into Francis Bacon, Shakespeare, the Rosicrucians and the Western Wisdom Tradition, and their involvement with the extraordinary 50-year blossoming of the English Renaissance that, to a large degree, powered the birth of modern science, law, culture and society. The Baconian work, which is involved with knowledge of the landscape as well as history, philosophy, mythology, culture and consciousness, concerns one of the great doorways into the otherwise esoteric Western Wisdom Tradition. Shakespeare, Freemasonry and the Rosicrucians are part of this story. The FBRT shares its research via a programme of talks, seminars, summer schools and wisdom tours, its informative website, and a newsletter plus various articles for FBRT friends. The FBRT is a UK Registered Charitable Trust (# 280616) and has a governing board of trustees. Dawkins is the principal of the Trust.\n\nThe Gatekeeper Trust is devoted to personal and planetary healing through pilgrimage and the arts, such as sacred song and dance. It seeks to rediscover the ancient art of pilgrimage as a way of journeying with an awareness of and respect for the sacred nature of our environment, and for the wisdom and archetypal patterns that underlie it. It researches both ancient and modern knowledge about the landscape, and shares that knowledge through an annual programme of journeys, workshops, talks and conferences, and an informative website. As well as nationally organised events, the Gatekeeper Trust has several active local groups, and it runs a friendship scheme. Gatekeeper Trust is a UK Registered Educational Charity (# 326416) and has a governing board of trustees. Dawkins was a founder-trustee and is now an elder of the Trust.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12942315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12942315", "title": "Peter Novick", "text": "Peter Novick\n\nPeter Novick (July 26, 1934, Jersey City – February 17, 2012, Chicago) was an American historian, and Professor of History at the University of Chicago. He was best known for writing \"That Noble Dream: The \"Objectivity Question\" and the American Historical Profession\" and \"The Holocaust in American Life\". The latter title has also been published as \"The Holocaust and Collective Memory\", especially for non-US anglophonic markets.\n\nThough deemed a precursor, Novick was a sharp critic of Norman Finkelstein, but also of his opponent Alan Dershowitz. He died in 2012 in Chicago of lung cancer.\n\nNovick earned his bachelor's and doctoral degrees from Columbia University, in 1957 and 1965 respectively.\n\n\"That Noble Dream: The \"Objectivity Question\" and the American Historical Profession\" questions the origins and prevalence of the notion of objectivity in current and 20th century history. It focuses on developments in university history departments within the United States, though it traces the concept of objectivity in history's origins back to 19th century Germany and Leopold von Ranke.\n"}
{"id": "20644421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20644421", "title": "Petrus Ryff", "text": "Petrus Ryff\n\nPetrus Ryff ( ; ; May 8, 1552 – May 19, 1629) was a Swiss mathematician, physician and chronicler from Basel.\n\nPetrus Ryff was born in Basel, Switzerland. He was the son of Daniel Ryff (1529–1612), and Ursula Zimmermann, and the grandnephew of Basler chronicler Fridolin Ryff.\n\nPetrus Ryff enrolled in the University of his hometown in 1569; he received the Baccalaureus in 1572 and the \"Magister Philosophiae\" degree in 1576. He continued to study Medicine, following the lectures of Theodor Zwinger, Thomas Erastus, Felix Plater, and Johann Nicolaus Stupanus. He was awarded the degree of Medical Doctor in 1584. After that he practiced medicine for a few years, until he succeeded Christian Wursteisen as Professor of Mathematics at the University of Basel in 1586, a position he held until his death in 1629. In 1596 he became a Consultant of the School of Medicine, where he was an active member and 7 times Dean.\n\nHe was the author of several books of mathematics, astronomy, and astrology. Among the last is a prognostication for 1594. However, Petrus Ryff is best remembered for continuing and publishing the Basler Chronicles his granduncle Fridolin Ryff maintained between 1514 and 1541. After Fridolin died the chronicles were bequeathed to his daughter Magdalena, who passed them on to Petrus Ryff. He continued the chronicles from 1543–1585, and in 1585 he published the chronicles. The \"Basler Chroniken\" were edited and re-published in 1872 by the \"Historische und Antiquarische Gesellschaft zu Basel\". They provide an invaluable source of information about the history of Basel, and that part of Europe in the 16th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1201823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1201823", "title": "Philip A. Barker", "text": "Philip A. Barker\n\nPhilip Arthur Barker (22 August 1920 – 2001) was a British archaeologist most famous for his work on excavation methodology.\n\nHe left school with no qualifications and served in the RAF during the Second World War before training as a teacher. He became interested in archaeology and later became an academic at the University of Birmingham. For many years he was the archaeologist at Worcester Cathedral.\n\nDuring the 1970s and '80s he worked to help establish Rescue and the Institute of Field Archaeologists and undertook excavation work at Wroxeter and Hen Domen.\n\nHe wrote the comprehensive guide to field archaeology, \"Techniques of Archaeological Excavation\" in 1977 and it remains in print.\n\n"}
{"id": "82746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82746", "title": "Philochorus", "text": "Philochorus\n\nPhilochorus of Athens (; ; c. 340 BC – c. 261 BC), was a Greek historian and Atthidographer of the 3rd century BC, and a member of a priestly family. He was a seer and interpreter of signs, and a man of considerable influence.\n\nPhilochorus was strongly anti-Macedonian in politics, and a bitter opponent of Demetrius Poliorcetes. When Antigonus Gonatas, the son of the latter, besieged and captured Athens (261 BC), Philochorus was put to death for having supported Ptolemy II Philadelphus of Egypt, who had encouraged the Athenians in their resistance to Macedonia.\n\nHis investigations into the usages and customs of his native Attica were embodied in an \"Atthis\", in seventeen books, a history of Athens from the earliest times to 262 BC. Considerable fragments are preserved in the lexicographers, scholiasts, Athenaeus, and elsewhere. The work was epitomized by the author himself, and later by Asinius Pollio of Tralles (perhaps a freedman of the famous Gaius Asinius Pollio).\n\nPhilochorus also wrote on oracles, divination and sacrifices; the mythology and religious observances of the tetrapolis of Attica; the myths of Sophocles; the lives of Euripides and Pythagoras; the foundation of Salamis, Cyprus. He compiled chronological lists of the \"archons\" and Olympiads, and made a collection of Attic inscriptions, the first of its kind in Greece.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14970862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14970862", "title": "Prehistoric medicine", "text": "Prehistoric medicine\n\nPrehistoric medicine is any use of medicine from before the invention of writing and the documented history of medicine. Because the timing of the invention of writing varies per culture and region, the term \"prehistoric medicine\" encompasses a wide range of time periods and dates.\n\nThe study of prehistoric medicine relies heavily on artifacts and human remains, and on anthropology. Previously uncontacted peoples and certain indigenous peoples who live in a traditional way have been the subject of anthropological studies in order to gain insight into both contemporary and ancient practices.\n\nDifferent diseases and ailments were more common in prehistory than today; there is evidence that many people suffered from osteoarthritis, probably caused by the lifting of heavy objects which would have been a daily and necessary task in their societies. For example, the transport of latte stones, though this practice only started during the neolithic era which involved hyper extension and torque of the lower back, while dragging the stones, may have contributed to the development of micro fractures in the spine and subsequent spondylolysis. Things such as cuts, bruises, and breakages of bone, without antiseptics, proper facilities, or knowledge of germs, would become very serious if infected, as they did not have sufficient ways to treat infection.\nThere is also evidence of rickets, bone deformity and bone wastage (Osteomalacia), which is caused by a lack of Vitamin D.\n\nThe life expectancy in prehistoric times was low, 25–40 years, with men living longer than women; archaeological evidence of women and babies found together suggests that many women would have died in childbirth, perhaps accounting for the lower life expectancy in women than men. Another possible explanation for the shorter life spans of prehistoric humans may be malnutrition; also, men as hunters may have sometimes received better food than the woman, who would consequently have been less resistant to disease.\n\nPlant materials (herbs and substances derived from natural sources) were among the treatments for diseases in prehistoric cultures. Since plant materials quickly rot under most conditions, historians are unlikely to fully understand which species were used in prehistoric medicine. A speculative view can be obtained by researching the climate of the respective society and then checking which species continue to grow in similar conditions today and through anthropological studies of existing indigenous peoples. \nUnlike the ancient civilisations which could source plant materials internationally, prehistoric societies would have been restricted to localised areas, though nomadic tribes may have had a greater variety of plant materials at their disposal than more stationary societies.\n\nThe effects of different plant materials could have been found through trial and error. Gathering and dispensing of plant materials was in most cultures handled by women, who cared for the health of their family. Plant materials were an important cure for diseases throughout history. This fund of knowledge would have been passed down orally through the generations.\nThe \"birch polypore\" fungus, commonly found in alpine environments, may have been used as a laxative by prehistoric peoples living in Northern Europe, since it is known to bring on short bouts of diarrhoea when ingested, and was found among the possessions of a mummified man.\n\nEarths and clays may have provided prehistoric peoples with some of their first medicines. This is related to geophagy, which is extremely widespread among animals in the wild as well as among domesticated animals. In particular, geophagy is widespread among contemporary non-human primates. Also, early humans could have learned about the use of various healing clays by observing animal behaviour. Such clay is used both internally and externally, such as for treating wounds, and after surgery (see below). Geophagy, and the external use of clay are both still quite widespread among aboriginal peoples around the world, as well as among pre-industrial populations.\n\n\"Trepanning\" (sometimes \"Trephining\") was a basic surgical operation carried out in prehistoric societies across the world, although evidence shows a concentration of the practice in Peru. Several theories question the reasoning behind trepanning; it could have been used to cure certain conditions such as headaches and epilepsy.. There is evidence discovered of bone tissue surrounding the surgical hole partially grown back, so therefore survival of the procedure did occur at least on occasion.\n\nMany prehistoric peoples, where applicable (geographically and technologically), were able to set broken or fractured bones using clay materials. An injured area was covered in clay, which then set hard so that the bone could heal properly without interference. Also, primarily in the Americas, the pincers of certain ant species were used to close up wounds from infection; the ant was held above the wound until it bit, where its head would be removed allowing the pincers to remain and hold closed the wound.\n\n\"Medicine men\" (also witch-doctors, shamans) maintained the health of their tribe by gathering and distributing herbs, performing minor surgical procedures, providing medical advice, and supernatural treatments such as charms, spells, and amulets to ward off evil spirits. In Apache society, as would likely have been the case in many others, the medicine men initiate a ceremony over the patient, which is attended by family and friends. It consists of magic formulas, prayers, and drumming. The medicine man then, from patients' recalling of their past and possible offenses against their religion or tribal rules, reveals the nature of the disease and how to treat it.\n\nThey were believed by the tribe to be able to contact spirits or gods and use their supernatural powers to cure the patient, and, in the process, remove evil spirits. If neither this method nor trepanning worked, the spirit was considered too powerful to be driven out of the person. Medicine men would likely have been central figures in the tribal system, because of their medical knowledge and because they could seemingly contact the gods. Their religious and medical training were, necessarily, passed down orally.\n\nArchaeologists in Mehrgarh in Balochistan province in the present day Pakistan discovered that the people of Indus Valley Civilization from the early Harappan periods (c. 3300 BC) had knowledge of medicine and dentistry. The physical anthropologist who carried out the examinations, Professor Andrea Cucina from the University of Missouri, made the discovery when he was cleaning the teeth from one of the men. Later research in the same area found evidence of teeth having been drilled dating to 7,000 B.C.E.\n\nThere is no written evidence which can be used for investigation into the prehistoric period of history by definition. Historians must use other sources such as human remains and anthropological studies of societies living under similar conditions. A variety of problems arise when the aforementioned sources are used.\n\nHuman remains from this period are rare and many have undoubtedly been destroyed by burial rituals or made useless by damage. The most informative archaeological evidence are mummies, remains which have been preserved by either freezing or in peat bogs; no evidence exists to suggest that prehistoric people mummified the dead for religious reasons, as Ancient Egyptians did. These bodies can provide scientists with subjects' (at the time of death): weight, illnesses, height, diet, age, and bone conditions, which grant vital indications of how developed prehistoric medicine was.\n\nNot technically classed as 'written evidence', prehistoric people left many kinds of paintings, using paints made of minerals such as lime, clay and charcoal, and brushes made from feathers, animal fur, or twigs on the walls caves. Although many of these paintings are thought to have a spiritual or religious purpose, there have been some, such as a man with antlers (thought to be a medicine man), which have revealed some part of prehistoric medicine. Many cave paintings of human hands have shown missing fingers (none have been shown without thumbs), which suggests that these were cut off for sacrificial or practical purposes, as is the case among the Pygmies and Khoikhoi.\n\nThe writings of certain cultures (such as the Romans) can be used as evidence in discovering how their contemporary prehistoric cultures practiced medicine. People who live a similar nomadic existence today have been used as a source of evidence too, but obviously there are distinct differences in the environments in which nomadic people lived; prehistoric people who once lived in Britain for example, cannot be effectively compared to aboriginal peoples in Australia, because of the geographical differences.\n\n"}
{"id": "32127814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32127814", "title": "Pseudoarchaeology of Cornwall", "text": "Pseudoarchaeology of Cornwall\n\nThe pseudoarchaeology of Cornwall concerns aspects of the study of Cornwall that fall outside mainstream archaeology, history, and cultural studies. Pseudoarchaeological approaches differ from the mainstream disciplines in methodology, which often leads to very different ideas. Mainstream scholars generally do not consider the methodologies used in pseudoarcheology to be valid, since they do not follow the scientific method.\n\nPseudohistorical myths associated with Cornwall, notably the Arthurian tradition and the Brutus myth form an important part of cultural history and have had great influence.\n\nThe density and antiquity of archaeological sites in Cornwall has attracted many, including people associated with the New Age, and neo-pagan movements.\n\nPseudoarchaeology and ideas like it may go by other names including \"alternative archaeology\" and Earth mysteries.\n\nThere is a Cornish legend of the lost land of Lyonesse, which was lost to the sea in the past. The exact location of Lyonesse is in doubt. It is claimed to represent the folk memory of the flooding of the Isles of Scilly and Mount's Bay near Penzance. For example, the Cornish name of St Michael's Mount is \"Karrek Loos y'n Koos\", literally, \"the grey rock in the wood\". The Breton legend of Ys is a similar concept.\n\nSome people believe that the Cornish language was not the first language spoken in Cornwall after the end of the most recent glacial period within the Ice Age. One idea is that Vasconic languages, related to present day Basque were spoken in Cornwall and other areas of Europe. This idea has been advanced by mainstream scholars, but it has also been used by others in support of pseudohistorical assertions.\n\nLinks with the ancient Middle East are also involved in pseudohistorical claims related to Cornwall and the wider Celtic Britain, including speculation concerning the identity of the Picts. Some have associated the Cornish piskies of folklore with the Picts. The identity and origins of the Picts have attracted various speculations, including a Middle Eastern Semitic, or pharaonic Egyptian origin to the Pictish language. Most mainstream scholars believe the Pictish language to have been P-Celtic (i.e. an Indo-European language of the Celtic branch), and there is no real evidence that legends of piskies are related to the historical Picts.\n\nThere is evidence that there was long-distance trade in tin or copper from Cornwall in Iron Age times. Some speculate that the traders were of Phoenician or Carthaginian origin. Timothy Champion found it likely that the trade of the Phoenicians with Britain was indirect and under the control of the Veneti of Brittany.\n\nThere is also a legendary tradition concerning a visit by the biblical Joseph of Arimathea to Cornwall, which in some forms, makes the claim that the boy Jesus accompanied him.\n\nThe Cornish language is also a topic that has attracted pseudohistorical interpretations and folk etymologies, notably the origin of the Cornish word \"kyttrin\", meaning in English, bus (motorbus) (in the context of public transport) Folk etymology has also been associated with surnames derived from the Cornish language. The Cornish language is however of mainstream linguistic, historic, and cultural interest.\n\nJohn Boson writes in 1710 (transliterated into a revived Cornish orthography):\n\n\nThere is a variety of traditional Cornish folklore which includes stories concerning giants, piskies and other folkloric beings. The Brutus myth, is an important phase in the pseudohistory of Cornwall, wherein Corineus defeated the giant Gogmagog and founded the kingdom of Cornwall.\n\nThe pre-Christian era religious beliefs in Cornwall are also important. The preeminent pseudohistoric personage in Cornwall is King Arthur. Although details concerning his life are difficult to separate from later medieval interpretations, he does seem to be based on a historical leader of the Celtic Britons. The legendary Dukes of Cornwall also feature in pseudohistory. The Cornish strand of the Arthurian tradition has been summarised and reviewed in a book entitled \"Inside Merlin's Cave: a Cornish Arthurian reader 1000–2000\".\n\nThe 19th century Celtic revival, Neo-Paganism, and the New Age movements draw greatly on the pseudohistory of Cornwall.\n\nLey lines are a popular concept in pseudoarchaeology, although some, including Andy Norfolk, have considered Aboriginal songlines in the context of Cornwall. The pseudogeography of Cornwall has been studied by Carl Phillips. One difference between ley lines and songlines, are that ley lines are straight, whereas songlines may not be.\n\n\nHistorical linguistic ideas that are sometimes drafted in to support pseudohistorical claims:\n\nRelevant concepts in pseudogeography:\n"}
{"id": "18012700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18012700", "title": "Rajat Kanta Ray", "text": "Rajat Kanta Ray\n\nRajat Kanta Ray () is a historian of South Asian history, specializing in Modern Indian history.\n\nHe is the son of Kumud Kanta Ray, ICS who was a Home Secretary of West Bengal in the 1960s. His grandfather, Kamakshya Ray was a contemporary of Rathindranath Tagore in Santiniketan.\n\nHe completed his schooling at Ballygunge Government High School, Calcutta, and his B.A. (Honours) in History at Presidency College, Calcutta where he was a student of Ashin Dasgupta. He then completed his Ph.D. under the supervision of Anil Seal at the University of Cambridge.\n\nHe was an Assistant Professor of History at the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta. From 1975-1982 he was Reader and then from 1982-2006 he was the Professor and Head of the Department of History at Presidency College, Calcutta. He is one of the longest serving professors of the college. From 2006 to 2011, he was the Upacharya of Visva Bharati. He is now Emeritus Professor of History at Presidency University, Calcutta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25582859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25582859", "title": "Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea", "text": "Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea\n\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea, MA BE KHS (9 February 1905 – 20 January 1983) was a Mexican historian, diplomat, scholar, professor, art collector and sugarcane entrepreneur who made significant contributions toward the study of the haciendas of the State of Jalisco (Mexico) in the twentieth century. He spoke Spanish, English, French, Italian and Latin fluently. He authored and published numerous articles for newspapers and specialized magazines in Mexico, South America, Spain, United Kingdom and United States. His enthusiasm for History led him to become a professor of Regional History at the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters of Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara in 1965. Later on, in 1973, he earned his MA degree in Latin American Studies at the University of New Mexico. He is especially mentioned by Mexican academics Mauricio Beuchot (2001) and José María Murià (2003) as an early historian of the haciendas in Western Mexico.\n\nHis published biographical notes were written by:\n\nSince 2005 his name has been listed among the \"Illustrious People\" (\"Personajes Ilustres\") of the State of Jalisco at its official webpage as: \"Ricardo Lancaster Jones y Verea (1905–1983). Ingeniero, diplomático, catedrático.\"\n\nThe Congress of the State of Jalisco has published some biographical notes about \"Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea\" in 2010.\n\nMexican author Carlos Monsiváis, in his book \"Amor Perdido\" (2005), mentions the \"Lancaster-Jones\" family among the Porfiriato's distinguished families in the dawn of Mexico's 20th century.\n\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea born in Guadalajara, Jalisco (the second largest city in Mexico) to Alberto Lancaster-Jones y Mijares and Isabel Verea y Vallarta. Through Spanish historian Fernando Muñoz Altea (1925–2018) and local journalist José Jorge Vázquez-Tagle, it is possible to trace Lancaster-Jones y Verea's immediate and extended family. His father, Alberto Lancaster-Jones y Mijares (1873–1958) MEng KHS, was a British-Mexican sugarcane entrepreneur and scientist. He was Chairman of the Board of \"Ingenio Santa Cruz y El Cortijo\" (a sugar refinery located in Zapotiltic, Jalisco); in 1919 he cofounded the \"Instituto de Ciencias\" in Guadalajara, being his first Director (1919–1934). Fourteen years later, in 1934, he founded the \"Faculty of Chemical Sciences\" at the Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara, being its first Dean (1934–1958). On 5 March 1986, the lecture hall No. 9 of such Faculty of Chemical Sciences was named as \"Ing. Alberto Lancaster-Jones y Mijares\" to honour his memory.\n\nAlberto Lancaster-Jones y Mijares' parents were: Ricardo Lancaster-Jones (1831–1922), a British-Mexican banker and entrepreneur (grandson of the English innovator on public education Joseph Lancaster), Mayor of Guadalajara and Treasurer of the State of Jalisco; and Francisca Mijares y Añorga (great-granddaughter of the 8th Señor De Añorga in San Sebastián, Gipuzkoa, Basque region of Spain). Through his extended family, Alberto Lancaster-Jones y Mijares was nephew of: A) Alfonso Lancaster-Jones (1842–1903), a British-Mexican jurist, politician and Mexico's Ambassador to the UK (1836–1909). B) José Antonio Pintó y Añorga, 1st Count de Añorga in Spain. C) Catalina Barron y Añorga, who married Antonio de Escandón y Garmendia (1824–1877) KHS, Spanish-Mexican entrepreneur who introduced the railroad in Mexico. D) Dolores Barron y Añorga, who married General Pedro Rincón Gallardo y Rosso (1836–1909), Mexican Ambassador to Russia and Germany. E) Guillermo Barron y Añorga (1829–1903), British-Mexican entrepreneur, Chairman of the Board of \"Barron, Forbes & Co\".\n\nIsabel Verea y Vallarta's parents were: José María Verea y González de Hermosillo (1826–1884), Mexican jurist and author of the State of Jalisco's \"Ley de Enjuiciamiento Civil\" (1872); and Isabel Vallarta y Ogazón. Through her extended family, Isabel Verea y Vallarta was niece of: A) Count Francisco de Paula Verea y González de Hermosillo (1813–1884), Pope Pius IX's Domestic Prelate (1862); he was one of the Mexican delegates to the First Vatican Council (1869–1870), and Bishop of the dioceses of Nuevo León and Puebla. B) Pedro Ogazón Rubio (1824–1890), Mexican jurist, politician and military; Minister of War, Governor of the State of Jalisco and President of Mexico's Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation. C) Ignacio Luis Vallarta Ogazón (1830–1893), Mexican jurist and politician; Minister of Interior, Governor of the State of Jalisco and President of Mexico's Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation. D) Bernardo Reyes Ogazón (1850–1913), Mexican military and politician; Minister of War and Governor of the State of Nuevo León.\n\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea was nephew of Alfonso Reyes (1889–1959), Mexican man-of-letters, poet, philosopher and Mexico's Ambassador to Argentina and Brazil; and cousin of: A) Manuel Sandoval Vallarta (1899–1977), a Mexican physicist co-author of the \"Lemaître-Vallarta\"'s theory about the cosmic rays' effects on earth. B) Elena Verea y Corcuera, married with Carlos Alfonso Mitjans y Fitz-James Stuart (1907–1997), XXII Count of Teba y Baños, Grandee of Spain. C) Sofía Verea y Corcuera, married with Ignacio Bernal (1910–1992), an eminent Mexican anthropologist and archaeologist. D) Marta Verea y Corcuera, married with Francisco Pérez de Salazar y Solana, distinguished Mexican connoisseur.\n\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea's early life passed between Guadalajara, Mexico City (where his paternal grandfather lived) and his family's Hacienda of \"Santa Cruz y El Cortijo\" (located in Zapotiltic, Jalisco), where he enjoyed exploring the countryside, horseback riding, hunting, swimming and fishing. This fact influenced him some years later when he became interested in the history of Jalisco's haciendas. When he turned 27 years old, he was asked to choose Citizenship (he could have taken British nationality owing to his father's citizenship), but chose Mexican nationality by a document dated on 29 September 1932.\n\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea studied in Mexico (\"Instituto de Ciencias\" and \"Escuela Libre de Ingenieros\", both in Guadalajara), and in the United States (St Charles College, Grand Coteau, Louisiana and the University of Dayton, Ohio). He earned a Topographical Engineering degree at the \"Escuela Libre de Ingenieros de Jalisco\" (1928) and a Bachelor of Engineering (BE) degree at the University of Dayton (1929).\n\nAs the eldest child of his family, he entered the sugarcane business in 1930 at the already mentioned \"Ingenio Santa Cruz y El Cortijo\", where he made important contributions until 1942. In 1944, he became a member of the Board of Directors of \"Ingenio Tamazula\" (a sugar refinery located in Tamazula de Gordiano, Jalisco). In 1946, he was founding member of \"Sociedad de Ingenieros y Arquitectos de Guadalajara\" (Engineers and Architects Society of Guadalajara) serving as General Manager since 1949. Then, in 1950 he became a member of the Board of Directors of \"Banco Industrial de Jalisco\".\n\nBeginning in 1934, Lancaster-Jones wrote for the \"Gaceta de Guadalajara\" magazine, later becoming a contributing journalist for the \"El Informador\" newspaper. He continued writing for different magazines and newspapers from Guadalajara and Mexico City, such as \"Crónica Social Tapatía\", \"El Mundo\", \"Estudios Históricos\", \"Excelsior\", \"El Occidental\", et al.\n\nIn Guadalajara, on 28 October 1935, Ricardo Lancaster-Jones married Luz Padilla y España (5 April 1913 – 5 March 1978); the wedding reception was held at the Verea y Vallarta's mansion in Guadalajara (nowadays, this building is the seat of the Congress of the State of Jalisco). On 18 February 1955, Luz Padilla y España was named Dame of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem.\n\nLuz Padilla y España was the eldest child of Arcadio Padilla y Romo de Vivar, and of Guadalupe España y Araujo.\n\nArcadio Padilla y Romo de Vivar was a well-known Guadalajaran attorney-at-law who also was Mexico's National Railroads representative in Mexico City (1920–1935), and the State of Jalisco's Senior Deputy to Mexico's National Congress (1928–1930).\n\nGuadalupe España y Araujo was granddaughter of José María Araujo, a Guadalajaran attorney-at-law, District Judge and Knight of the Imperial Order of Guadalupe (27 February 1865).\n\nThrough her extended family, Luz Padilla y España was niece of: A) Carmen Padilla y Romo de Vivar, wife of the Guadalajaran academic and painter José Vizcarra (1874–1956). B) Sara España y Araujo, wife of Alfredo Navarro Branca (1881–1979), a famous Guadalajaran architect from post-revolutionary period; nowadays, among his buildings, the one of the Universidad de Guadalajara (1914) stands out.\n\nDuring the course of his life, Lancaster-Jones participated in some diplomatic activities with the United States, El Salvador, the United Nations and the Holy See:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLancaster-Jones was included by Luis González y González among the notable historians of the second half of the 20th century in Mexico (1973).\n\nDuring the course of his life, he contributed with such authors as:\n\nIn 1954, Lancaster-Jones gave more than a dozen photos to Paul Alexander Bartlett, depicting the haciendas \"Santa Cruz\" and \"El Cortijo\" (Jalisco) from 1880 to 1940, contributing to Bartlett's large-scale study of more than 350 haciendas throughout Mexico that Bartlett conducted between 1943 and 1985. Nowadays, these photographs are kept in the Benson Latin American Collection at the University of Texas at Austin.\n\nIn 1952 the Governor of the State of Jalisco, José Jesús González Gallo (1900–1957), appointed Lancaster-Jones as Curator of the \"Museo Regional de Guadalajara\", serving this post until 31 December 1953. During the two years he was in office, he reorganized the exhibition rooms, commanded the restoration of priceless works of art, and made a detailed inventory of the various museum collections.\n\n\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea's published works gave him an important role in Mexico's cultural circles and abroad:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn 1965 Antonio Leaño Álvarez del Castillo (1913–2010), Rector and Chairman of the Board of Universidad Autónoma de Guadalajara, appointed Ricardo Lancaster-Jones as professor of regional history at the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters.\n\nIn 1973 Lancaster-Jones earned his M.A. in Latin American Studies at University of New Mexico with the thesis \"Haciendas de Jalisco y aledños: fincas rústicas de antaño, 1506–1821\" (published in Mexico the next year as \"Haciendas de Jalisco y Aledaños (1506-1821)\"). Then, he continued with the PhD studies under the guidance of Donald C. Cutter (1922–2014), emeritus professor of history at University of New Mexico from 1976 until 1978, then, his health broke down. After he recovered his health in late 1978, he didn't continued with the PhD degree due to personal reasons.\n\nAnother noted disciple of Lancaster-Jones was Áurea Zafra Oropeza (died 11 August 2010, Guadalajara), among whose publications are \"Agustín Rivera y Agustín de la Rosa ante la filosofía novohispana\" (Sociedad Jalisciense de Filosofía, Guadalajara, 1994) and \"Las cofradías de Cocula\" (Agata, Guadalajara, 1996). Her \"La mujer en la historia de Jalisco\" was awarded in 1996 by the Government of the State of Jalisco.\n\nAccording to Leopoldo I. Orendain (1898–1972), Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea was a \"real Connoisseur\" whose enthusiasm as an art collector brought him to become advisor to several governors of Jalisco and various businessmen who sought for his help during the formation of their own collections of art. He was also a referee in testamentary appraisals. Lancaster-Jones was the first person, since 1948, to question the authenticity of a group of six paintings ellaborated on copper sheet, attributed to Rubens and that are in the collection of the Basilica of Our Lady of San Juan de los Lagos (Jalisco).\n\nJosé Cornejo Franco (1900–1977), Director of the Public Library of the State of Jalisco (1949–1977), avers that Lancaster-Jones collaborated with the formation of several private libraries and contributed with the reorganization of the Public Library of the State of Jalisco (1950–1959). In 1970 the restoration of the former Franciscan convent of Guadalajara owed to his work \"El Uso de Documentos en la Restauración de Edificios Antiguos\" (\"Use of Documents in the Restoration of old Buildings\"). This study was published the year before (1969), through it, he examines an inventory from 1718 of the same Franciscan convent (a manuscript of his own collection). Anticipating to his times as thirty years had to pass and so in the year 2000, the \"Escuela de Conservación y Restauración de Occidente\" (\"School of Conservation and Restoration of the West\") was founded in Guadalajara.\n\nWhen Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea's paternal grandfather died in 1922, he inherited an important collection of Mexican Colonial Art (pieces from the Viceroyalty of New Spain period), a collection which was increased through time with more pieces from the Colonial period as well as from Mexican 19th century. His art collection also included some selected pieces from 20th century's artists like Chucho Reyes (1880–1977), José Clemente Orozco (1883–1949) and Jorge González Camarena (1908–1980). He is mentioned among the most important art collectors in the State of Jalisco by Xavier Torres Ladrón de Guevara (1997).\n\nGuadalajaran art collector Carlos Navarro gives \"remarkable importance\" to his oil painting portrait collection in his book \"El Retrato en Jalisco\" (2004). This collection included works from artists like: José María Estrada (1764–1860), Juan Cordero (1822–1884), Pablo Valdéz (1839–1898), Felipe Castro (1832–1902), Jacobo Gálvez (1821–1882), Gerardo Suárez (1834–1870), José Pamplona (1845–1867), Carlos Villaseñor (1849–1920) and José Vizcarra (1874–1956).\n\nLancaster-Jones is mentioned by Ramiro Villaseñor y Villaseñor as one of the notable booklovers of Jalisco. His library had more than 35,000 volumes, most of them collected through the course of his life. Nowadays, those volumes are distributed among the libraries of \"El Colegio de Jalisco\", the University of Texas and the University of New Mexico, as well as in private collections in Mexico and abroad.\n\nHis bookplate was catalogued in 1970 by the Mexican academic José Miguel Quintana (1908–1987) in \"Libros Mexicanos\"; it was designed by the artist and academic Carlos Stahl (1892–1984). Nowadays, one of Ricardo Lancaster-Jones’ bookplates can be found at the \"Colección de ex-libris de Guillermo Tovar de Teresa\" (\"Guillermo Tovar de Teresa’s Bookplates Collection\") at the Universidad Iberoamericana in Mexico City.\n\nIn 1953 Lancaster-Jones established the \"Sociedad de Anticuarios de Guadalajara\" (\"Society of Antiquarians of Guadalajara\"), serving as General Secretary from 1953 to 1980.\n\nAccording to Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea: an hacienda in all its types: plantations, mines, business factories, etc., was the medium that made possible the population of large dispersed areas (sometimes isolated); it was the base of the acculturation process and the core around which the incorporation to civilized life by the indigenous took place.\nGiven the extension of the territory of New Spain (now Mexico), the haciendas became excellent autonomous centers. Their inhabitants lived in a microcosm that allowed them to channel their spiritual and material needs.\n\nThe haciendas that existed in the ancient Kingdom of New Galicia were located through a diverse and rich geography. Local circumstances changed the regional customs in the haciendas of this area, distinguishing them from the rest of New Spain. The origin of the features that distinguish Mexico in the world today: charreria, mariachi and tequila, can be found in the Haciendas of Jalisco.\n\nDuring the course of his life, Ricardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea was member of the following institutions:\nRicardo Lancaster-Jones y Verea is mentioned by Heriberto García Rivas (1971) among the notable authors of the late 20th century in Mexico. As a published author, his name can be found also like: \"Ricardo Lancaster-Jones\" or \"Ing. Ricardo Lancaster-Jones\". His publications include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5893557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5893557", "title": "Rif War", "text": "Rif War\n\nThe Rif War was an armed conflict fought from 1920 to 1927 between the colonial power Spain (later joined by France) and the Berber tribes of the Rif mountainous region. Led by Abd el-Krim, the Riffians at first inflicted several defeats on the Spanish forces by using guerrilla tactics and captured European weapons. After France's military intervention against Abd el-Krim's forces and the major landing of Spanish troops at Al Hoceima, considered the first amphibious landing in history to involve the use of tanks and aircraft, Abd el-Krim surrendered to the French and was taken into exile.\n\nIn 1909, Rifian tribes aggressively confronted Spanish workers of the iron mines of the Rif, near Melilla, which led to the intervention of the Spanish Army. The military operations in Jebala, in the Moroccan West, began in 1911 with the Larache Landing. Spain worked to pacify a large part of the most violent areas until 1914, a slow process of consolidation of frontiers that lasted until 1919 due to World War I. \n\nThe following year, after the signing of the Treaty of Fez, the northern Moroccan area was adjudicated to Spain as a protectorate. The Riffian populations strongly resisted the Spanish, unleashing a conflict that would last for several years. In 1921, the Spanish troops suffered the catastrophic Disaster of Annual, the biggest defeat in the history of Spain, in addition to a rebellion led by Rifian leader Abd el-Krim. As a result, the Spanish retreated to a few fortified positions while Abd el-Krim ultimately created an entire independent state: the Republic of the Rif. The development of the conflict and its end coincided with the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, who took on command of the campaign from 1924 to 1927. In addition, and after the Battle of Uarga in 1925, the French intervened in the conflict and established a joint collaboration with Spain that culminated in the Alhucemas landing which proved a turning point. By 1926 the area had been pacified; Abd-el-Krim surrendered in July 1927; and the Spanish regained the previously lost territory.\n\nThe Rif War is still considered controversial among historians. Some see in it a harbinger of the decolonization process in North Africa. Others consider it one of the last colonial wars, as it was the decision of the Spanish to conquer the Rif — nominally part of their Moroccan protectorate but \"de facto\" independent — that catalyzed the entry of France in 1924.\n\nThe Rif War left a deep memory both in Spain and in Morocco. The Riffian insurgency of the 1920s can be interpreted as a precursor to the Algerian war of independence, which took place three decades later.\n\nDuring the early 20th century, Morocco was divided into protectorates ruled by France and Spain. The Rif region had been assigned to Spain, but given that the Sultans of Morocco had been unable to exert control over the region, Spanish sovereignty over the Rif was strictly theoretical. For centuries, the Berber tribes of the Rif had fought off any attempt of outsiders to impose control on them. Though nominally Muslim, the tribes of the Rif had continued many pagan animist practices, such as worshipping water spirits and forest spirits. Attempts by the Moroccan sultans to impose orthodox Islam on the Rif had been successfully resisted by the tribesmen.\n\nFor centuries, Europeans had seen the Rif mountains and people on the mountains from ships in the Mediterranean Sea, but almost no European had ever ventured into the area. Walter Burton Harris, the Morocco correspondent for \"The Times\", who covered the war, wrote that as late as 1912 only \"one or two Europeans had been able to visit the cedar forests that lie south of Fez. A few had traveled in the southern Atlas and pushed on into the Sus...and that was almost all\". As Harris wrote, the Berbers \"were often as inhospitable to the Arab as they were to the foreigner\", and generally killed any outsiders who ventured into their territory.\n\nVincent Sheean, who covered the war for \"The New York Times\", wrote that the Rif was a truly beautiful countryside of \"Crimson mountains flung against a sky of hieratic blue, gorges magnificent and terrifying, peaceful green valleys between protecting precipices\", a place that reminded him of his native Colorado. The Rif was also rich in high-grade iron, which could be easily extracted via open pit mining. The promise of the Spanish state collecting revenues in the form of taxes and royalties from iron mining here was incentive for it to bring the Rif under its control. \n\nThe Crown granted the concession to mine iron in the Rif to the millionaire Don Horacio Echevarrieta. By 1920 he had brought out 800,000 tons of valuable high grade iron through relatively inexpensive open pit mining. Though profitable, the iron mining caused much environmental damage and required the displacement of the native people. As they received no share of the profits, the Rifians soon began to oppose the mining in their territory.\n\nWhen King Alfonso XIII of Spain ascended to the throne in 1886, Spain was considered a world power, with colonies in the Americas, Africa, Asia and the Pacific. But in the Spanish–American War, Spain lost Cuba, Puerto Rico, and the Philippines, and in 1899 it sold the Mariana and Caroline Islands to Germany, retaining only some footholds on the Moroccan coast and Spanish Guinea. To compensate for the lost empire in the Americas and Asia, there emerged a powerful \"africanist\" faction in Spain led by Alfonso, who wanted a new empire in Africa. Finally, the Roman Catholic Church was politically powerful in Spain, and much of the Spanish clergy preached the need for new crusade to continue the \"Reconquista\" by conquering Morocco, thus adding their voices to the \"africanist\" choir. For all these reasons, Spain began pushing into the Rif in 1909.\n\nThe Berber tribesmen had a long tradition of fierce fighting skills, combined with high standards of fieldcraft and marksmanship. They were capably led by Abd el-Krim, who showed both military and political expertise. However, the Rifian regular army was never a very large force. The elite of the Rifian forces formed regular units which according to Abd el-Krim, quoted by the Spanish General Manuel Goded, numbered 6,000 to 7,000. Other sources put it much lower, at around 2,000 to 3,000.\n\nThe remaining Rifians were tribal militia selected by their Caids; they were not liable to serve away from their homes and farms for more than 15 consecutive days. General Goded estimated that at their peak, in June 1924, the Rifian forces numbered about 80,000 men, although Abd el-Krim was never able to arm more than 20,000 men at a time. However, this force was largely adequate in the early stages of the war. In the final days of the war, Rifian forces numbered about 12,000 men. In addition Rifian forces were not well armed, with weapons badly maintained and in poor condition.\n\nInitially, the Spanish forces in Morocco were largely composed of conscripts and reservists from Spain itself. These \"Peninsular\" troops were poorly supplied and prepared, few had marksmanship skills and proper battle training, and widespread corruption was reported amongst the officer corps, reducing supplies and morale. Of the Spanish troops in Morocco in 1921, well over half were completely illiterate conscripts from the poorest elements of Spanish society who had been sent to Morocco with minimal training. Despite Silvestre's assurances that his equipment was sufficient to defeat the Rifians, in fact about three-quarters of the rifles at the Melilla arsenal were in shoddy condition due to poor maintenance, and a report from late 1920, which Silvestre had never bothered to read, warned that many of the rifles held there were either unusable or more of a danger to the soldier firing them than to the enemy.\n\nThe average Spanish soldier in Morocco in 1921 was paid the equivalent of thirty-four US cents per day, and lived on a simple diet of coffee, bread, beans, rice and the odd piece of meat. Many soldiers bartered their rifles and ammunition at the local markets in exchange for fresh vegetables. The barracks that the soldiers lived in were unsanitary and medical care at the few hospitals very poor. Up in the mountains, Spanish soldiers lived in small outposts known as \"blocaos\", which the American historian Stanley Payne observed: \"Many of these lacked any sort of toilet, and the soldier who ventured out of the filthy bunker risked exposure to the fire of lurking tribesmen\". Continuing a practice first begun in Cuba, corruption flourished amongst the venal Spanish officer corps, with goods meant for the troops being sold on the black market and the funds intended to build roads and railroads in Morocco ending up in the pockets of senior officers. A high number of Spanish officers could not read maps, which explains why Spanish units so frequently got lost in the Rif mountains. In general, studying war was not considered to be a good use of an officer's time, and most officers devoted their time in Melilla in words of the American journalist James Perry to \"gambling and whoring, sometimes molesting the native Moorish women\". Morale in the Army was extremely poor and most Spanish soldiers just wanted to go home and leave Morocco forever. Because of the prostitutes from Spain, who attached themselves in great number to the Spanish bases in Morocco, venereal diseases were rampant in the Spanish Army. Silvestre was well aware of the poor morale of his soldiers, but he did not regard this as a problem, believing that his enemy was so inferior that the problems afflicting his troops were not an issue.\n\nEven with their numerical superiority, the \"Peninsular\" troops proved no match for the highly skilled and motivated Rifian forces. Accordingly, much reliance came to be placed on the mainly professional units comprising Spain's Army of Africa. Since 1911, these had included regiments of Moroccan Regulares, who proved to be excellent soldiers. \nThe initiative was unpopular in parts of Spain as well. In 1909, during early conflicts with the Rif tribesmen, an attempt by the Spanish government to call up reservists led to a working class uprising in Barcelona known as Tragic Week. The Catalan trade unions, many led by anarchists, argued that the working class of Barcelona had no quarrel with the people of the Rif. After the Tragic Week of 1909, the Spanish government starting in 1911 tried to raise as many \"Regulare\" units as possible to avoid further working class resistance to colonial wars as much of the Spanish working class had no desire to see their sons sent to Morocco, beginning a policy of what the Spanish historian Jose Alvarez called \"Moroccanizing\" the conquest of the Rif. Following the difficulties and setbacks that it had experienced in 1909-11, the Spanish army began to adopt much in organization and tactics from the French North African forces garrisoning most of Morocco and neighboring Algeria. Particular attention was paid to the French Foreign Legion and a Spanish equivalent, the \"Tercio de Extranjeros\" (\"Foreigners brigade\"), known in English as the \"Spanish Legion\", was formed in 1920. The regiment's second commander was then-Col. Francisco Franco, having risen rapidly through the ranks. In the Rif war, it was the \"Regulares\" and the Spanish Foreign Legion founded in 1919 that provided the elite forces that won Spain the war. Less than 25% of this \"Foreign Legion\" were, in fact, non-Spanish. Harshly disciplined and driven, they quickly acquired a reputation for ruthlessness. As their number grew, the Spanish Legion and the Regulares increasingly led offensive operations after the disasters that had been suffered by the conscript forces.\n\nAs an outcome of the Treaty of Fez (1912) Spain gained possession of the lands around Melilla and Ceuta. In 1920, the Spanish commissioner, General Dámaso Berenguer, decided to conquer the eastern territory from the Jibala tribes, but had little success. The second-in-command was General Manuel Fernández Silvestre who commanded the eastern sector. Silvestre had spread out his troops out in 144 forts and \"blocaos\" from Sidi Dris on the Mediterranean across the Rift mountains to Annual and Tizi Azza and on to Melilla. A typical \"blocao\" held about dozen men while the larger forts had about 800 men. Silvestre, known for his boldness and impetuosity had pushed his men too deep into the Rif mountains hoping to reach Alhucemas Bay without undertaking the necessary work to build a logistical support network capable of supplying his men out in the \"blocaos\" up in the Rif mountains. Krim had sent Silvestre a letter warning him not to cross the Amekran river or else he would die. Silvestre commented to the Spanish press about the letter that: \"This man Abd el-Krim is crazy. I'm not going to take seriously the threats of a little Berber \"caid\" [judge] whom I had at my mercy a short time ago. His insolence merits a new punishment\". Krim allowed Silvestre to advance deep into the Rif, knowing the Spanish logistics were in the words of the Spanish historian Jose Alvarez \"tenuous\" at best.\n\nOn 1 July 1921, the Spanish army in north-eastern Morocco under the command of General Manuel Fernández Silvestre collapsed when defeated by the forces of Abd el-Krim, in what became known in Spain as the disaster of Annual, some 8,000 soldiers and officers reported killed or disappeared out of some 20,000. The final Spanish death toll, both at Annual and during the subsequent rout that took Rifian forces to the outskirts of Melilla, was reported to the Cortes Generales as totaling 13,192. The Spanish were pushed back and during the following five years, occasional battles were fought between the two. The Rifian forces advanced to the east and captured over 130 Spanish military posts.\nBy late August 1921, Spain lost all the territories it had gained since 1909. Spanish troops were pushed back to Melilla, which was their biggest base in the eastern Rif. Spain still had 14,000 soldiers in Melilla. However, Abd el-Krim ordered his forces not to attack the town. He subsequently told the writer J. Roger-Matthieu that since citizens of other European nations were residing in Melilla, it was feared they would intervene in the war should their citizens come to harm. Other reasons included the dispersal of Rifian fighters from several loosely allied tribes following the victory at Annual; and the arrival in Melilla of substantial reinforcements from the Legion and other Spanish units recalled from operations in western Morocco. By the end of August Spanish forces at Melilla numbered 36,000 under General Jose Sanjurjo and the slow process of recovering the lost territory could begin.\n\nThus the Spanish could keep their biggest base in the eastern Rif. Later Abd el-Krim would admit: \"I bitterly regret this order. It was my biggest mistake. All the following tenor of events happened because of this mistake.\"\n\nBy January 1922 the Spanish had retaken their major fort at Monte Arruit (where they found the bodies of 2,600 of the garrison) and had reoccupied the coastal plain as far as Tistutin and Batel. The Rifian forces had consolidated their hold of the inland mountains and stalemate was reached.\n\nThe Spanish military suffered losses even at sea; in March the transport ship \"Juan de Joanes\" was sunk in Alhucemas Bay by Riffian coastal batteries, and in August 1923, while shelling Riffian positions, the battleship \"España\" ran aground off Cape Tres Forcas and was eventually scrapped \"in situ\".\n\nIn a bid to break the stalemate, the Spanish military turned to the use of chemical weapons against the Riffians. \n\nWith the \"africanists\" comprising only a minority, it was clear that it was only a matter of time before the \"abandonistas\" forced the Spanish to give up on the Rif, which was part of the reason for the military coup d'état later in 1923. On September 13, 1923, General Miguel Primo de Rivera, 2nd Marqués de Estella, seized power in a military coup d'état. General Primo de Rivera was in the words of the American journalist James Perry a \"moderate dictator\" who was convinced that the divisions between the \"africanists\" vs. the \"abandonistas\" had pushed Spain to the brink of civil war, and who had seized power to find a way out of the crisis. General Primo de Rivera soon concluded that the war was unwinnable, and considered pulling back his troops to the coast with the aim of at least temporarily abandoning the Rif. In late July 1924, Primo de Rivera visited a Spanish Foreign Legion post at Ben Tieb in the Rif, and was served a banquet of eggs in different forms. In Spanish culture, eggs are a symbol of the testicles, and the dishes were intended to send a clear message. Primo de Rivera responded calmly that the army would be required to abandon only the minimum of territory and that junior officers should not dictate the measures necessary to resolve the Moroccan problem. However he subsequently modified the plans for withdrawal, pulling the Spanish forces back from Chaouen and the Wad Lau region to a prepared fortified boundary named the \"Primo Line\".\n\nIn May 1924, the French Army had established a line of out-posts north of the Oureghla River in disputed tribal territory. On 12 April 1925, an estimated 8,000 Rifians attacked this line and in two weeks over 40 of 66 French posts had been stormed or abandoned. French casualties exceeded 1,000 killed, 3,700 wounded and 1,000 missing – representing losses of over 20 percent of their forces deployed in the Rif. The French accordingly intervened on the side of Spain, employing up to 160,000 well trained and equipped troops from Metropolitan, Algerian, Senegalese and Foreign Legion units, as well as Moroccan regulars (tirailleurs) and auxiliaries (goumiers). With total Spanish forces now numbering about 90,000 the Rifian forces were now seriously outnumbered by their Franco-Spanish opponents. Final French deaths from battle and disease, in what had now become a major war, were to total 8,628.\n\nFor the final attack commencing on 8 May 1925, the French and Spanish had ranged 123,000 men, supported by 150 aircraft, against 12,000 Rifians. Superior manpower and technology soon resolved the course of the war in favour of France and Spain. The French troops pushed through from the south while the Spanish fleet and army secured Alhucemas Bay by an amphibious landing, and began attacking from the north. After one year of bitter resistance, Abd el-Krim, the leader of both the tribes, surrendered to French authorities, and in 1926 Spanish Morocco was finally retaken.\n\nHowever, the unpopularity of the war in Spain and the earlier humiliations of the Spanish military contributed to the instability of the Spanish government and the military coup of 1923.\n\n\n\nSeries Viking Fund publications in anthropology ; no. 55, Notes. Bibliography: pages 533–546.\" Tucson, Arizona, (1976)\n"}
{"id": "31614174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31614174", "title": "Rupert Gerritsen", "text": "Rupert Gerritsen\n\nRupert Gerritsen (1953–2013) was an Australian historian and a noted authority on Indigenous Australian prehistory. Coupled with his work on early Australian cartography, he played an influential part in re-charting Australian history prior to its settlement by the British in 1788. He died in Canberra, A.C.T. on Sunday 3 November 2013.\n\nRupert Gerritsen was born in Geraldton, Western Australia in 1953, of Dutch parents. He grew up in Geraldton where he experienced first hand the excitement of the discovery of the wreck of the Batavia in 1963 and came to know some of those involved in its discovery and the discovery of other 17th and 18th century shipwrecks on the coast of Western Australia.\n\nFrom 1960s through to the 1980s he was involved in radical politics and social activism and promoted social justice and empowerment.\n\nProfessionally he was engaged for many years in Western Australia and the ACT in youth work, community work and mental health, and specialise in developmental work.\n\nAlthough not his first work published, \"And Their Ghosts May Be Heard\", (1994, 2nd edition in 2002), is perhaps the best known. It is a detailed exploration of the fate of the Dutch mariners castaway on the Western Australian coast in the 1600s and early 1700s.\n\nGerritsen was involved in establishing that possibly some 16% of Nhanda, an Aboriginal language of the central west coast of Western Australia, was derived from Dutch as a result of interaction with marooned sailors. This groundbreaking discovery has led to major reevaluation in the perceptions of the early prehistory in that Aboriginal Australians were not mute witnesses to the unfolding events history but active participants who embraced parts of European culture long before the British settlement of the continent.\n\nOn a more specific level, Gerritsen also researched the location where two mutineers from the Batavia mutiny, possibly Australia’s first European settlers, were marooned on 16 November 1629. As a consequence of his research Gerritsen established that Hutt River, 500 kilometres north of Perth, was the site where Wouter Loos and Jan Pelgrom de Bye first set foot on mainland Australia. These discoveries wrought a complete change in the methodology of recording early Western Australian pre-history. Many subsequent scholars have embraced this new historical paradigm in their works. The result is the ending of triumphal history which described the inevitability of growth of wealth and prosperity of Western Australia under the shroud of British colonialism. Such a view suppressed the inclusiveness of other voices which, through the march of time, proved to be an anathema to a multicultural society.\n\nAfter the appearance of \"Ghosts\", Gerritsen published a range of papers and monographs in diverse fields, from archaeology to historical linguistics, and another book, \"Australia and the Origins of Agriculture\". This work put forward evidence that some Indigenous groups in Australia in traditional circumstances were engaged in food production, including agriculture, and lived in large permanent settlements.\n\nGerritsen undertook research and published extensively on a diverse range of subjects. This included:\n\nIn recognition of his work on Australian pre-history and its Dutch influence, in 2007, Queen Beatrix of the Netherlands conferred upon Gerritsen the honour of Knight of the Order of Orange-Nassau.\n\nIn August 2012 Gerritsen was awarded the Dorthy Prescott Prize for the paper, \"Getting the strait facts straight\", he gave at the Brisbane International Geospatial Forum.\n\nGerritsen was co-founder, along with Peter Reynders, of \"Australia on the Map: 1606–2006\", and was that organisation’s National Secretary. At his death he was Chair of its successor organisation, the \"Australia on the Map\" Division of the Australasian Hydrographic Society which aims to make Australians more aware of Australia's early history and heritage, beginning in 1606.\n\nUnder the Australia on the Map Division of the Australasian Hydrographic Society, Gerritsen had sole or joint responsibility for a number of projects, including the \"Search for the Deadwater Wreck\".\n\nGerritsen was a Petherick Researcher at the National Library of Australia since April 1995. and focussed his research and writing on early Australian history.\n\n"}
{"id": "42085878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42085878", "title": "Russian military intervention in Ukraine (2014–present)", "text": "Russian military intervention in Ukraine (2014–present)\n\nIn February 2014, Russia made several military incursions into Ukrainian territory. After Euromaidan protests and the fall of Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych, Russian soldiers without insignias took control of strategic positions and infrastructure within the Ukrainian territory of Crimea. Russia then annexed Crimea after a referendum in which Crimeans voted to join the Russian Federation, according to official results. In April, demonstrations by pro-Russian groups in the Donbass area of Ukraine escalated into an armed conflict between the Ukrainian government and the Russia-backed separatist forces of the self-declared Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics. In August, Russian military vehicles crossed the border in several locations of Donetsk Oblast. The incursion by the Russian military was seen as responsible for the defeat of Ukrainian forces in early September.\n\nIn November 2014, the Ukrainian military reported intensive movement of troops and equipment from Russia into the separatist-controlled parts of eastern Ukraine. The Associated Press reported 80 unmarked military vehicles on the move in rebel-controlled areas. The Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) Special Monitoring Mission observed convoys of heavy weapons and tanks in DPR-controlled territory without insignia. OSCE monitors further stated they observed vehicles transporting ammunition and soldiers' dead bodies crossing the Russian-Ukrainian border under the guise of humanitarian aid convoys. As of early August 2015, OSCE observed over 21 such vehicles marked with the Russian military code for soldiers killed in action. According to \"The Moscow Times\", Russia has tried to intimidate and silence human rights workers discussing Russian soldiers' deaths in the conflict. OSCE repeatedly reported that its observers were denied access to the areas controlled by \"combined Russian-separatist forces\".\n\nThe majority of members of the international community and organizations such as Amnesty International have condemned Russia for its actions in post-revolutionary Ukraine, accusing it of breaking international law and violating Ukrainian sovereignty. Many countries implemented economic sanctions against Russia, Russian individuals or companies to which Russia responded in kind.\n\nIn October 2015, \"The Washington Post\" reported that Russia has redeployed some of its elite units from Ukraine to Syria to support Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. In December 2015, Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin admitted that Russian military intelligence officers were operating in Ukraine, insisting though that they were not the same as regular troops.\n\nDespite being an independent country since 1991, Ukraine has been perceived by Russia as being part of its sphere of interest. Iulian Chifu and his co-authors claim that in regard to Ukraine, Russia pursues a modernized version of the Brezhnev Doctrine on \"limited sovereignty\", which dictates that the sovereignty of Ukraine cannot be larger than that of the Warsaw Pact prior to the demise of the Soviet sphere of influence. This claim is based on statements of Russian leaders that possible integration of Ukraine into NATO would jeopardize Russia's national security.\n\nAfter the collapse of the Soviet Union, both nations retained very close ties. At the same time, there were several sticking points, most importantly Ukraine's significant nuclear arsenal, which Ukraine agreed to abandon in the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances on the condition that Russia (and the other signatories) would issue an assurance against threats or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of Ukraine. In 1999, Russia was one of signatories of Charter for European Security, where it \"reaffirmed the inherent right of each and every participating State to be free to choose or change its security arrangements, including treaties of alliance, as they evolve\"; both would prove worthless in 2014.\n\nA second point was the division of the Black Sea Fleet. Ukraine agreed to lease the Sevastopol port so that the Russian Black Sea fleet could continue to occupy it together with Ukraine. Starting in 1993, through the 1990s and 2000s, Ukraine and Russia engaged in several gas disputes. In 2001, Ukraine, along with Georgia, Azerbaijan, and Moldova, formed a group called GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development, which was seen by Russia as a direct challenge to the CIS, the Russian-dominated trade group established after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Russia was further irritated by the Orange Revolution of 2004, which saw the Ukrainian populist Viktor Yushchenko elected president instead of the pro-Russian Viktor Yanukovich. Moreover, Ukraine continued to increase its cooperation with NATO, deploying the third-largest contingent of troops to Iraq in 2004, as well as dedicating peacekeepers to NATO missions such as the ISAF force in Afghanistan and KFOR in Kosovo.\n\nA pro-Russian president, Viktor Yanukovich, was elected in 2010 and Russia felt that many ties with Ukraine could be repaired. Prior to this, Ukraine had not renewed the lease of Black Sea Naval base at Sevastopol, meaning that Russian troops would have to leave Crimea by 2017. However, Yanukovich signed a new lease and expanded allowable troop presence as well as allowing troops to train in the Kerch peninsula. Many in Ukraine viewed the extension as unconstitutional because Ukraine's constitution states that no permanent foreign troops shall be stationed in Ukraine after the Sevastopol treaty expired. Yulia Tymoshenko, the main opposition figure of Yanukovich, was jailed on what many considered trumped up charges, leading to further dissatisfaction with the government. In November 2013, Viktor Yanukovich declined to sign an association agreement with the European Union, a treaty that had been in development for several years and one that Yanukovich had earlier approved of. Yanukovich instead favored closer ties with Russia.\n\nIn September 2013, Russia warned Ukraine that if it went ahead with a planned agreement on free trade with the EU, it would face financial catastrophe and possibly the collapse of the state. Sergey Glazyev, adviser to President Vladimir Putin, said that, \"Ukrainian authorities make a huge mistake if they think that the Russian reaction will become neutral in a few years from now. This will not happen.\" Russia had already imposed import restrictions on certain Ukrainian products and Glazyev did not rule out further sanctions if the agreement was signed. Glazyev allowed for the possibility of separatist movements springing up in the Russian-speaking east and south of Ukraine. He suggested that, contrary to international law, if Ukraine signed the agreement, Russia would consider the bilateral treaty that delineates the countries' borders to be void. Russia would no longer guarantee Ukraine's status as a state and could possibly intervene if pro-Russian regions of the country appealed directly to Russia.\n\nFollowing months of protests as part of the Euromaidan movement, on 22 February 2014, protesters ousted the government of Viktor Yanukovych, who had been democratically elected in 2010. The protesters took control of government buildings in the capital city of Kiev, along with the city itself. As the police abandoned their posts across the capital Kiev and the opposition established control over key intersections and the parliament, President Yanukovych fled Kiev for Kharkiv in the east of Ukraine, where he traditionally has had more support. After this incident, the Ukrainian parliament voted to restore the 2004 Constitution of Ukraine and remove Yanukovych from power. A vote on the resolution that stated that Yanukovych \"is removing himself [from power] because he is not fulfilling his obligations\" emerged 328–0 in support. The vote was 10 short of three-quarters of the Parliament members, the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine for impeachment. Yanukovych stated that the vote was unconstitutional because of this issue, and refused to resign. Politicians from the eastern and southern regions of Ukraine, including Crimea, declared continuing loyalty to Yanukovych.\n\nOne of the first issues the parliament approached was that of the language, annulling a bill that provided for Russian to be used as a second official government language in regions with large Russian-speaking populations. The parliament adopted a bill to repeal the 2012 law on minority languages, which protected the status of languages other than Ukrainian. The proposal alienated many in the Russian-speaking regions of Ukraine and a few days later, on 1 March, acting President Oleksandr Turchynov vetoed the bill, effectively stopping its enactment.\n\nIn the meantime, on the morning of 27 February, Berkut special police units from Crimea and other regions of Ukraine, which had been dissolved on 25 February, seized checkpoints on the Isthmus of Perekop and Chonhar peninsula. According to Ukrainian MP Hennadiy Moskal, former chief of the Crimean police, these Berkut had armoured personnel carriers, grenade launchers, assault rifles, machine guns, and other weapons. Since then, they have controlled all land traffic between Crimea and continental Ukraine.\n\nIn August 2016 the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) published telephone intercepts from 2014 of Sergey Glazyev (Russian presidential adviser), Konstantin Zatulin, and other people where they discussed covert funding of pro-Russian activists in Eastern Ukraine, occupation of administration buildings and other actions that in due course led to the armed conflict. Glazyev refused to deny authenticity of the intercepts, and another subject, Zatulin, confirmed they were real but taken out of context. As early as February 2014 Glazyev was giving direct instructions to various pro-Russian parties in Ukraine to instigate unrest in Donetsk, Kharkiv, Zaporizhia, and Odessa.\n\nOn 4 March 2014, Russian permanent representative to the United Nations Vitaly Churkin presented a photocopy of a letter signed by Victor Yanukovich on 1 March 2014 asking that Russian president Vladimir Putin use Russian armed forces to \"restore the rule of law, peace, order, stability and protection of the population of Ukraine\". Both houses of the Russian parliament voted on 1 March to give President Putin the right to use Russian troops in Crimea. On 24 June Vladimir Putin asked Russian parliament to cancel resolution on use of Russian forces in Ukraine. The next day the Federation Council voted to repeal its previous decision, making it illegal to use the Russian organized military forces in Ukraine.\n\nDays after Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovich fled the capital of Kiev in late February 2014, armed men opposed to the Euromaidan movement began to take control of the Crimean Peninsula. Checkpoints were established by unmarked Russian soldiers with green military-grade uniforms and equipment in the capital of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Simferopol, and the independently administered port-city of Sevastopol, home to a Russian naval base under the Kharkiv Pact of 2010. The local population and the media referred to these men as \"little green men\". After the occupation of the Crimean parliament by these unmarked troops, believed to be Russian special forces, the Crimean leadership announced it would hold a referendum on secession from Ukraine. This heavily disputed referendum was followed by the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation in mid-March. Ukraine and most of the international community refused to recognize the referendum or the annexation. On 15 April, the Ukrainian parliament declared Crimea a territory temporarily occupied by Russia. Since annexing Crimea, the Russian government increased its military presence in the region, with Russian president Vladimir Putin saying a Russian military task force would be established there. In December 2014 Ukrainian Border Guard Service announced Russian troops began withdrawing from the areas of Kherson Oblast. Russian troops occupied parts of the Arabat Spit and the islands around the Syvash which are geographically parts of Crimea but are administratively part of Kherson Oblast. One of such villages occupied by Russian troops was Strilkove, Henichesk Raion, located on the Arabat Spit, which housed an important gas distribution centre. Russian forces stated they took over the gas distribution center to prevent terrorist attacks. Russian forces withdrew from southern Kherson and continued to occupy the gas distribution center outside Strilkove. The withdrawal from Kherson ended nearly 10 months of Russian occupation of the region. Ukraine's border guards stated the areas that were under Russian occupation will have to be checked for mines prior to them overtaking these positions.\n\nIn November, NATO stated that it believed Russia was deploying nuclear-capable weapons to Crimea.\n\nAndrey Illarionov, former advisor of Vladimir Putin, said in a speech on 31 May 2014 that some technologies of Russo-Georgian War, were updated and again being exploited in Ukraine. According to him, since Russian military operation in Crimea began on 20 February 2014, Russian propaganda could not argue that the Russian aggression was the result of Euromaidan. The war in Ukraine did not happen \"all of sudden\", but was pre-planned and the preparations began as early as 2003. Illarionov later stated that one of the Russian plans envisaged war with Ukraine in 2015 after a presidential election, however Maidan accelerated the confrontation.\n\nOn August 8, 2016 Ukraine reported that Russia had increased its military presence along the Crimea demarcation line. Border crossings were then closed. On August 10, Russia claimed two servicemen were killed and 10 injured in clashes with Ukrainian commandos in Armyansk (Crimea) on August 7, and that Ukrainian operatives had been captured. Russian media reported that one of the killed soldiers was a commander of the Russian GRU, and later was buried in Simferopol. Ukraine denied that the incident took place, and parallel to the incident on August 9 a Ukrainian officials claimed that a number of Russian soldiers had deserted but had not entered into Ukraine, and that skirmishes broke out between Russian intelligence officers and border guards. Russian President Putin accused Ukraine of turning to the \"practice of terrorism\". Ukrainian President Poroshenko called the Russian version of events \"equally cynical and insane\". The U.S. denied Russia's claims, with its ambassador to Ukraine (Geoffrey R. Pyatt) stating \"The U.S. Government has seen nothing so far that corroborates Russian allegations of a \"Crimea incursion\".\n\nUkrainian president Petro Poroshenko warned that Russia was preparing for a full-scale invasion of Ukraine, something that Europe is too weak to prevent it from doing.\nOn 25 November, near the Russia-controlled Kerch Strait, Russian warships fired on and seized three Ukrainian vessels: (P175) Berdiansk and (P176) Nikopol Gyurza-M artillery boats and the (А947) Yany Kapu tugboat. A day later on 26 November 2018, lawmakers in the Ukraine Parliament overwhelmingly backed the imposition of martial law along Ukraine's coastal regions and those bordering Russia in response to the firing upon and seizure of Ukrainian naval ships by Russia near the Crimean peninsula a day earlier. A total of 276 lawmakers in Kiev backed the measure, which takes effect on 28 November 2018 and will automatically expire in 30 days.\n\nThe war in Donbass is an armed conflict in the Donbass region of Ukraine. From the beginning of March 2014, demonstrations by pro-Russian and anti-government groups took place in the Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts of Ukraine, together commonly called the \"Donbass\", in the aftermath of the 2014 Ukrainian revolution and the Euromaidan movement. These demonstrations, which followed the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation, and which were part of a wider group of concurrent pro-Russian protests across southern and eastern Ukraine, escalated into an armed conflict between the Russia-backed separatist forces of the self-declared Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republics (DPR and LPR respectively), and the Ukrainian government. The SBU claimed key commanders of the rebel movement during the beginning of the conflict, including Igor Strelkov and Igor Bezler were Russian agents. The prime minister of Donetsk People's Republic from May to August 2014 was a Russian citizen Alexander Borodai. From August 2014 all top positions in Donetsk and Lugansk have been held by Ukrainian citizens. Russian citizens are reported to make up from 15% to 80% of the combatants, with many claimed to be former military personnel. Recruitment for the Donbass insurgents was performed openly in Russian cities using private or voyenkomat facilities, as was confirmed by a number of Russian media.\n\nIn an interview with French television channel TF1 and Radio Europe1, Russian president Vladimir Putin said: \"There are no armed forces, no 'Russian instructors' in Ukraine—and there never were any.\"\n\nIn late March Russia continued the buildup of military forces near Ukraine reaching 30-40,000 troops total. Concerns were expressed that Russia may again be readying an incursion into Ukraine following its annexation of Crimea.\n\nAmerican and Ukrainian officials said they had evidence of Russian interference in Ukraine, including intercepted communications between Russian officials and Donbass insurgents.\n\nUkrainian media have described the well-organised and well-armed pro-Russian militants as similar to those which occupied regions of Crimea during the Crimean crisis. The former deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Admiral Ihor Kabanenko, said that the militants are Russian military reconnaissance and sabotage units. Arsen Avakov stated that the militants in Krasnyi Lyman used Russian-made AK-100 series assault rifles fitted with grenade launchers, and that such weapons are only issued in the Russian Federation. \"The Government of Ukraine is considering the facts of today as a manifestation of external aggression by Russia,\" said Avakov. Militants in Sloviansk arrived in military lorries without license plates. A reporter from Russia's \"Novaya Gazeta\", having visited separatist artillery positions in Avdeyevka, wrote that in his opinion \"it's impossible that the cannons are handled by volunteers\" as they require a trained and experienced team, including observers and adjustment experts.\n\nDavid Patrikarakos, a correspondent for the \"New Statesman\" said the following: \"While at the other protests/occupations there were armed men and lots of ordinary people, here it almost universally armed and masked men in full military dress. Automatic weapons are everywhere. Clearly a professional military is here. There's the usual smattering of local militia with bats and sticks but also a military presence. Of that there is no doubt.\" Zbigniew Brzezinski, a former American National Security Advisor, said that the events in the Donbass were similar to events in Crimea, which led to its annexation by Russia, and noted that Russia acted similarly.\n\nIn April 2014, a US State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said, \"there has been broad unity in the international community about the connection between Russia and some of the armed militants in eastern Ukraine\". The Ukrainian government released photos of soldiers in eastern Ukraine, which the US State Department said showed that some of the fighters were Russian special forces. US Secretary of State John Kerry said the militants \"were equipped with specialized Russian weapons and the same uniforms as those worn by the Russian forces that invaded Crimea.\" The US ambassador to the United Nations said the attacks in Sloviansk were \"professional,\" \"coordinated,\" and that there was 'nothing grass-roots seeming about it'. The British foreign secretary, William Hague, stated, \"I don't think denials of Russian involvement have a shred of credibility, [...] The forces involved are well armed, well trained, well equipped, well co-ordinated, behaving in exactly the same way as what turned out to be Russian forces behaved in Crimea.\" The commander of NATO operations in Europe, Philip M. Breedlove, assessed that soldiers appeared to be highly trained and not a spontaneously formed local militia, and that \"what is happening in eastern Ukraine is a military operation that is well planned and organized and we assess that it is being carried out at the direction of Russia.\"\n\"The New York Times\" journalists interviewed Sloviansk militants and found no clear link of Russian support: \"There was no clear Russian link in the 12th Company's arsenal, but it was not possible to confirm the rebels' descriptions of the sources of their money and equipment.\" Commenting on the presence of the Vostok Battalion within insurgent ranks, Denis Pushilin, self-declared Chairman of the People's Soviet of the Donetsk People's Republic, said on 30 May, \"It's simply that there were no volunteers [from Russia] before, and now they have begun to arrive – and not only from Russia.\"\n\nA significant number of Russian citizens, many veterans or ultranationalists, are currently involved in the ongoing armed conflict, a fact acknowledged by separatist leaders. Carol Saivets, Russian specialist for the Security Studies Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, described the role of Russian soldiers as 'almost certainly' proceeding with the blessing and backing of the Russian state, \"even if the Russians are indeed volunteers rather than serving military men\".\n\nA Russian opposition politician, Ilya Ponomarev, said \"I am absolutely confident that in the eastern regions of Ukraine there are Russian troops in very small numbers. And it's not regular soldiers, but likely representatives of special forces and military intelligence.\" Later in July, after the shooting down of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, he said that \"Putin now understands that he has passed weapons to the wrong people\". He also said that even if Moscow stopped the supply of weapons to the Donbass, there would still be enough supporters of the war in the Russian military to continue such shipments unofficially.\n\nSeparatist leaders such as Aleksey Mozgovoy visited Moscow and were evasive about who was supplying their weapons.\n\nAt a meeting held on 7 July, in the city of Donetsk, Russian politician Sergey Kurginyan held a press conference with representatives of the Donbass People's Militia, including Pavel Gubarev, and said that Russia did provide significant military support for the separatists. During a discussion among the participants, Gubarev complained that the arms that had been sent were old, and not fully functional. In response, Kurginyan listed specific items, including 12,000 automatic rifles, grenade launchers, 2S9 Nona self-propelled mortars, two BMPs, and three tanks, that he knew had been supplied to the separatists by Russia. He also said he saw new, fully functional weapons unloaded at locations in Donbass which he would not \"disclose as we are filmed by cameras\". Kurginyan admitted that Russia had initially sent \"4th category weapons\", but since 3 June had supplied equipment that was fully functional. He also said one of his goals whilst in Donetsk was to ensure that military support from Russia was increased.\n\nAn An-26 military cargo plane was shot down over the Ukrainian village of Davydo Myilske near the Russian border on 14 July. It had been flying at an altitude of 6,500 metres. The head of Ukraine's Security Service Valentyn Nalyvaichenko, stated on 15 July that the SBU had \"indisputable\" evidence of Russian involvement in the attack.\n\nMalaysia Airlines Flight 17 was shot down over the conflict zone on 17 July near Torez in Donetsk Oblast, over an area of Ukraine controlled by pro-Russia separatists. Evidence from open sources indicated that Buk missile launcher, that widely believed to have been used to shoot down the passenger flight, came from Russia, and was transported on 17 July from Donetsk to Snizhne. According to Bellingcat, the launcher was operated by Russian military of 53rd Anti-Aircraft Rocket Brigade.\nIn August, Russia sent dozens of white lorries, green army trucks painted white, into eastern Ukraine, without inspection by Ukraine. The trucks were \"almost empty\" the BBC's Steve Rosenberg reported, and the action was characterized as a diversion, a distraction, so that at other points equipment and personnel came into Ukraine.\n\nOn 17 August, Ukraine accused Russia of sending more military equipment, including Grad rocket launchers, across the border and on to Nizhny Nagolchyk. Sergei Lavrov continued to deny that Russia was sending any equipment across the border. He asserted that an OSCE observer mission placed at border crossing points in the region had not identified any unlawful crossings of the border but the OSCE mission that Lavrov mentioned had no mandate to check the long, unguarded sections of the border where crossings of men and equipment occurred frequently.\n\nUkrainian Defence Minister Valeriy Heletey said on 21 August that the militants were using Russian-made weapons that had never been used or bought by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Injured pro-Russian fighters were usually treated in Russia, with help from the Russian Ministry of Emergency Situations. They were also questioned and registered by the Federal Security Service (FSB), the Russian domestic security and intelligence agency.\n\nBellingcat has reported on the presence of Russian T-72B3 and T-90A tanks in the Donbass since 2014; the significance of this is that these tanks were not exported to or fielded by Ukraine. T-72B3 and T-90A tanks have reportedly been used near Ilovaisk, Luhansk airport and Debaltseve.\n\nRussia shelled Ukrainian units from across the border since mid-July. On 11 July 2014 Ukrainian camp in Zelenopillya village near Ukrainian-Russian border was shelled by modern Russian MLRS system 9K51M \"Tornado-G\", suffering heavy casualties.\nOn 24 July the American government stated that it had evidence that the Russian military was firing on Ukrainian territory from across the border. A spokesman for the US Department of Defence stated that there was \"no question\" as to Russia's involvement in the attacks on Ukrainian Armed Forces. On 28 July it published satellite photos showing heavy artillery shelling Ukrainian positions from Russian territory. On 27 July, U.S. officials confirmed Russia had shelled Ukrainian territory. At the time, Russian government spokesman denied these allegations.\n\nThe shelling escalated at least one week prior to the invasion. According to NATO reports, Russian military shelled Ukrainian positions across the border from mid-August, and by 22 August, Russian artillery and personnel had crossed the border into Ukraine itself.\n\nIn early August, according to Igor Strelkov, Russian servicemen, supposedly on \"vacation\" from the army, began to arrive in Donbass.\n\nOn 13 August, members of the Russian Human Rights Commission stated that over 100 Russian soldiers had been killed in the fighting in Ukraine and inquired why they were there.\n\nA convoy of military vehicles, including armoured personnel carriers, with official Russian military plates crossed into Ukraine near the militant-controlled Izvaryne border crossing on 14 August. The Ukrainian government later announced that they had destroyed most of the armoured column with artillery. Secretary General of NATO Anders Fogh Rasmussen said this incident was a \"clear demonstration of continued Russian involvement in the destabilisation of eastern Ukraine\". The same day, Russian President Vladimir Putin, speaking to Russian ministers and Crimean parliamentarians on a visit to Crimea, undertook to do everything he could to end the conflict in Ukraine, saying Russia needed to build calmly and with dignity, not by confrontation and war which isolated it from the rest of the world. The comments came as international sanctions against Russia were being stepped up.\n\nOn 22 August 2014, according to NATO officials, Russia moved self-propelled artillery onto the territory of Ukraine.\n\nOn 24 August 2014, President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko referred to the conflict as Ukraine's \"Patriotic War of 2014\" and a war against \"external aggression\". The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine labeled the conflict an invasion on 27 August 2014.\n\nOn 26 August 2014, a mixed column composed of at least 3 T-72B1s and a lone T-72BM was identified on a video from Sverdlovsk, Ukraine by the International Institute for Strategic Studies. The sighting undermined Russia's attempts to maintain plausible deniability over the issue of supplying tanks and other arms to the separatists. Russia continuously claimed that any tanks operated by the separatists must have been captured from Ukraine's own army. The T-72BM is in service with the Russian Army in large numbers. This modernized T-72 is not known to have been exported to nor operated by any other country. Reuters found other tanks of this type near Horbatenko in October. In November, the United Kingdom's embassy in Ukraine also published an infographic demonstrating specific features of the T-72 tanks used by separatists not present in tanks held by Ukrainian army, addressing it to \"help Russia recognize its own tanks\". The equipment included for example Thales Optronics thermal vision instruments exported to Russia between 2007 and 2012 only.\n\nOn 27 August, two columns of Russian tanks entered Ukrainian territory in support of the pro-Russian separatists in Donetsk and Luhansk and engaged Ukrainian border forces, but US officials were reluctant to declare that Russia had begun invading Ukraine. NATO officials stated that over 1,000 Russian troops were operating inside Ukraine, but termed the incident an incursion rather than an invasion. The Russian government denied these claims. NATO published satellite photos which it said showed the presence of Russian troops within Ukrainian territory. The pro-Russian separatists admitted that Russian troops were fighting alongside them, stating that this was \"no secret\", but that the Russian troops were just soldiers who preferred to take their vacations fighting in Ukraine rather than \"on the beach\". The Prime Minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic stated that 3,000 to 4,000 Russian troops had fought in separatist ranks and that most of them had not returned to Russia, having continued to fight in Ukraine.\n\nOn 28 August, members of the commission called the presence of Russian troops on Ukrainian soil \"an outright invasion\". The same day, Ukraine ordered national mandatory conscription.\n\nIn late August, NATO released satellite images which it considered to be evidence of Russian operations inside Ukraine with sophisticated weaponry, and after the setbacks of Ukrainian forces by early September, it was evident Russia had sent soldiers and armour across the border and locals acknowledged the role of Putin and Russian soldiers in effecting a reversal of fortunes.\n\nThe 76th Guards Air Assault Division based in Pskov allegedly entered Ukrainian territory in August and engaged in a skirmish near Luhansk, suffering 80 dead. The Ukrainian Defense Ministry said that they had seized two of the unit's armoured vehicles near Luhansk city, and reported about another three tanks and two armoured vehicles of pro-Russian forces destroyed in other regions. The Russian government denied the skirmish took place.\n\nAround 29–30 August, Russian tanks destroyed \"virtually every house\" in Novosvitlivka, a suburb village of Luhansk, according to Ukrainian military spokesman Andriy Lysenko.\n\nOn 18 August, the 76th Guards Air Assault Division was awarded with Order of Suvorov, one of Russia's highest awards, by Russian minister of defence Sergey Shoigu for the \"successful completion of military missions\" and \"courage and heroism\". Russian media highlighted that the medal is awarded exclusively for combat operations and reported that a large number of soldiers from this division had died in Ukraine just days before, but their burials were conducted in secret. Some Russian media, such as \"Pskovskaya Guberniya\", reported that Russian paratroopers may have been killed in Ukraine. Journalists traveled to Pskov, the reported burial location of the troops, to investigate. Multiple reporters said they had been attacked or threatened there, and that the attackers erased several camera memory cards. \"Pskovskaya Guberniya\" revealed transcripts of phone conversations between Russian soldiers being treated in a Pskov hospital for wounds received while fighting in Ukraine. The soldiers reveal that they were sent to the war, but told by their officers that they were going on \"an exercise\".\n\nBellingcat contributor had published a series of investigations revealing the involvement of the Russian Northern Fleet Coastal troops units, 200th Motor Rifle Brigade and 61st Naval Infantry Brigade, which had participated in combats in Luhansk region. Troops of the 200th Motor Rifle Brigade fought in a battle of Luhansk Airport, and later in October in clashes for 32nd checkpoint. Marines of the 61st Naval Infantry Brigade were spotted in Luhansk and took part in fights in villages nearby.\n\nOn 24 August 2014, Amvrosiivka was occupied by Russian paratroopers. Ten Russian paratroopers of the 331st Guards Airborne Regiment, military unit 71211 from Kostroma, were captured in Dzerkalne that day, a village near Amvrosiivka, from the border, after their armored vehicles were hit by Ukrainian artillery. On 25 August, the Security Service of Ukraine reported about the captured paratroopers, claiming they've crossed Ukrainian border in the night of 23 August. The SBU also released their photos and names. The next day, the Russian Ministry of Defence said that they had crossed the border \"by accident\". On 31 August, the Russian media reported that ten Russian paratroopers captured inside Ukraine had returned home following a troop exchange. The 64 Ukrainian troops provided in exchange were captured after entering Russia to escape the upsurge in fighting. Russia claimed that the Russian troops had mistakenly crossed an unmarked area of the border while on patrol. Ukraine released videos of captured Russian soldiers which challenged Russia's claim that it had nothing to do with the conflict.\n\nOn 29 August, after Ukrainian forces agreed to surrender Ilovaisk, they were bombarded by Russian forces while they evacuated through a \"green corridor.\" The assault on the troops who were marked with white flags was variously described as a \"massacre.\" At least 100 were killed.\n\nAccording to Bellingcat, Russian military vehicles crossing the border of Ukraine and artillery positions close to the Ukrainian borders are clearly visible on satellite photos from 23 August 2014.\n\nOn 25 August, a column of Russian tanks and military vehicles was reported to have crossed into Ukraine in the southeast, near the town of Novoazovsk located on the Azov sea coast, and headed towards Ukrainian-held Mariupol. The Bellingcat's investigation reveals some details of this operation. Russian forces captured the city of Novoazovsk. and Russian soldiers began arresting and deporting to unknown locations all Ukrainians who did not have an address registered within the town. Pro-Ukrainian anti-war protests took place in Mariupol which was threatened by Russian troops. The UN Security Council called an emergency meeting to discuss the situation.\n\nOn 3 September, a Sky News team filmed groups of troops near Novoazovsk wearing modern combat gear typical for Russian units and traveling in new military vehicles with number plates and other markings removed. Specialists consulted by the journalists identified parts of the equipment (uniform, rifles) as currently used by Russian ground forces and paratroopers.\n\nOn 3 September, Ukrainian President Poroshenko said he had reached a permanent ceasefire agreement with Russian President Putin. Russia then denied the ceasefire took place, denying being party to the conflict at all. Ukraine then retracted its previous statement concerning the potential ceasefire.\n\nAlso on 3 September, the OSCE for the first time reported \"light and heavy calibre shootings from the east and south-east areas which are also bordering Ukraine\". The report also stated that the OSCE Observer Teams had seen an increase of military-style dressed men crossing the border in both directions, including ones with LPR and Novorossiya symbols and flags, and wounded being transported back to Russia.\n\nLindsey Hilsum wrote in the Channel 4 news blog that in early September Ukrainian troops at Dmytrivka came under attack from BM-30 Smerch rockets from Russia. On 4 September, she wrote of rumours that Ukrainian troops who had been shelling Luhansk for weeks were retreating west and that Russian soldiers with heavy armour were reported to have come over the border to back up the rebels.\n\nJournalist Tim Judah wrote in the NYR blog about the scale of the devastation suffered by Ukrainian forces in southeastern Ukraine over the last week of August 2014 that it amounted \"to a catastrophic defeat and will long be remembered by embittered Ukrainians as among the darkest days of their history.\" The scale of the destruction achieved in several ambushes revealed \"that those attacking the pro-government forces were highly professional and using very powerful weapons.\" The fighting in Ilovaysk had begun on 7 August when units from three Ukrainian volunteer militias and the police attempted to take it back from rebel control. Then, on 28 August, the rebels were able to launch a major offensive, with help from elsewhere, including Donetsk—though \"not Russia,\" according to Commander Givi, the head of rebel forces there. By 1 September it was all over and the Ukrainians had been decisively defeated. Commander Givi said the ambushed forces were militias, not regular soldiers, whose numbers had been boosted, 'by foreigners, including Czechs, Hungarians, and \"niggers.\" '\n\nMick Krever wrote on the CNN blog that on 5 September Russia's Permanent Representative to the OSCE, Andrey Kelin had said it was natural pro-Russian separatists \"are going to liberate\" Mariupol. Ukrainian forces stated that Russian intelligence groups had been spotted in the area. Kelin said 'there might be volunteers over there.' NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen meanwhile said there were several thousand regular Russian forces operating in Ukraine. Lindsey Hilsum reported on the Channel 4 news blog about the total destruction of Luhansk International Airport which was being used as a base by the Ukrainian forces to shell Luhansk, probably because the Russians decided to 'turn the tide' - the terminal building and everything around was utterly destroyed. Forces from Azerbaijan, Belarus and Tajikistan who were fighting on the side of the rebels allowed themselves to be filmed.\n\nOn 12 September 2014, the \"Guardian\" saw a Russian armoured personnel carrier in Lutuhyne. The next day, it was reported that Moscow had sent a convoy of trucks delivering \"aid\" into Ukraine without Kiev's consent. This convoy was not inspected by Ukraine or accompanied by the ICRC. Top Ukrainian leaders largely remained silent about the convoys after the ceasefire deal was reached. The \"aid\" was part of the 12-point Minsk agreement.\n\nThe speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament and Russian state television channels acknowledged that Russian soldiers entered Ukraine, but referred to them as \"volunteers\". A reporter for \"Novaya Gazeta\", an opposition newspaper in Russia, stated that the Russian military leadership paid soldiers to resign their commissions and fight in Ukraine in the early summer of 2014, and then began ordering soldiers into Ukraine. This reporter mentioned knowledge of at least one case when soldiers who refused were threatened with prosecution. Russian opposition MP Lev Shlosberg made similar statements, although he said combatants from his country are \"regular Russian troops\", disguised as units of the DPR and LPR.\n\nIn December, Ukrainian hackers published a large cache of documents coming allegedly from a hacked server of Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs (MID). The documents originated from various departments coordinated by MID, such as local police, road police, emergency services etc. The cache included documents describing Russian military casualties arriving on 25 August to hospitals in the Rostov area after a battle \"10 km northwest of the small village of Prognoi\", which matched a battle in Krasnaya Talovka reported on the same date by Ukrainian side.\n\nIn early September 2014, Russian state-owned television channels reported on the funerals of Russian soldiers who died in Ukraine during the war in Donbass, but described them as \"volunteers\" fighting for the \"Russian world\". Valentina Matviyenko, a top politician in the ruling United Russia party, also praised \"volunteers\" fighting in \"our fraternal nation\", referring to Ukraine. Russian state television for the first time showed the funeral of a soldier killed fighting in east Ukraine. State-controlled TV station Channel One showed the burial of paratrooper Anatoly Travkin in the central Russian city of Kostroma. The broadcaster said Travkin had not told his wife or commanders about his decision to fight alongside pro-Russia rebels battling government forces. \"Officially he just went on leave,\" the news reader said.\n\nAfter a series of military defeats and setbacks for the Donetsk and Lugansk separatists, who united under the banner of \"Novorossiya\", a term Russian President Vladimir Putin used to describe southeastern Ukraine, Russia dispatched what it called a \"humanitarian convoy\" of trucks across the Russo-Ukrainian border in mid-August 2014. Ukraine reacted to the move by calling it a \"direct invasion\". Ukraine's National Security and Defense Council published a report on the number and contents of these convoys, claiming they were arriving almost daily in November (up to 9 convoys on 30 November) and their contents were mainly arms and ammunition. In total, in November there were 1,903 trucks crossing the border from Russia to Donbass, 20 buses with soldiers or volunteers, 402 armoured personnel carriers, 256 tanks, 138 \"Grad\" launchers, 42 cannons and howitzers, 35 self-propelled artillery vehicles, 5 \"Buk\" launchers, 4 \"Uragan\" launchers, 4 \"Buratino\" flamethrowers, 6 pontoon bridge trucks, 5 \"Taran\" radio interception systems, 5 armoured recovery vehicles, 3 radiolocation systems, 2 truck cranes, 1 track layer vehicle, 1 radiolocation station, unknown number of \"Rtut-BM\" electronic warfare systems, 242 fuel tankers and 205 light off-road vehicles and vans.\n\nAbout the same time, multiple reports indicated separatist militias were receiving reinforcements that allowed them to turn the tables on government forces. Armoured columns coming from Russia also pushed into southern Donetsk Oblast and reportedly captured the town of Novoazovsk, clashing with Ukrainian forces and opening a new front in the Donbass conflict.\n\nRussian officials denied reports that Russian military units were operating in Ukraine (see War in Donbass), claiming instead they had been sent on routine drills close to the border with Ukraine and crossed the border by mistake. On 28 August 2014 Dutch Brigadier-General Nico Tak, head of NATO's crisis management center, said that \"over 1,000 Russian troops are now operating inside Ukraine\".\n\nOn 5 September, Sergey Krivenko, a member of Russian President's Council for Civil Society and Human Rights, commented on the growing number of Russian soldiers killed in Ukraine, saying that \"the situation now is very strange, something unusual is going on; it could be described as massive dying of soldiers, which is not typical for a time of peace; people from different military units are killed as a result of shots, from loss of blood, all these reasons are documented; and the military command explains that it happened during training or provides no explanation at all\".\n\nOn 7 November, NATO officials confirmed the continued invasion of Ukraine, with 32 Russian tanks, 16 howitzer cannons and 30 trucks of troops entering the country. On 12 November, NATO reiterated the prevalence of Russian troops; US general Philip Breedlove said \"Russian tanks, Russian artillery, Russian air defence systems and Russian combat troops\" were sighted. The Lithuanian Mission to the United Nations denounced Russia's 'undeclared war' on Ukraine. Journalist Menahem Kahana took a picture showing a 1RL232 \"Leopard\" battlefield surveillance radar system in Torez, east of Donetsk; and Dutch freelance journalist Stefan Huijboom took pictures which showed the 1RL232 traveling with the 1RL239 \"Lynx\" radar system.\n\nBurnt-out remains of tanks and vehicles left after battles appeared to provide further evidence of Russian involvement.\n\nThe Associated Press reported 80 unmarked military vehicles on the move in rebel-controlled areas. Three separate columns were observed, one near the main separatist stronghold of Donetsk and two outside the town of Snizhne. Several of the trucks were seen to be carrying troops.\n\nOSCE monitors further observed vehicles apparently used to transport soldiers' dead bodies crossing the Russian-Ukrainian border in one case a vehicle marked with Russia's military code for soldiers killed in action crossed from Russia into Ukraine on 11 November 2014 and later returned. On 23 January 2015 the Committee of Soldiers' Mothers warned about conscripts being sent to east Ukraine. NATO said it had seen an increase in Russian tanks, artillery pieces and other heavy military equipment in eastern Ukraine and renewed its call for Moscow to withdraw its forces.\n\nThe Center for Eurasian Strategic Intelligence estimated, based on \"official statements and interrogation records of captured military men from these units, satellite surveillance data\" as well as verified announcements from relatives and profiles in social networks, that over 30 Russian military units were taking part in the conflict in Ukraine. In total, over 8,000 soldiers had fought there at different moments. The Chicago Council on Global Affairs stated that the Russian separatists enjoyed technical advantages over the Ukrainian army since the large inflow of advanced military systems in mid-2014: effective anti-aircraft weapons (\"Buk\", MANPADS) suppressed Ukrainian air strikes, Russian drones provided intelligence, and Russian secure communications system thwarted the Ukrainian side from communications intelligence. The Russian side also frequently employed electronic warfare systems that Ukraine lacked. Similar conclusions about the technical advantage of the Russian separatists were voiced by the Conflict Studies Research Centre.\n\nIn November 2014, Igor Girkin gave a long interview to the extreme right-wing nationalist newspaper \"Zavtra\" (\"Tomorrow\") where for the first time he released details about the beginning of the conflict in Donbass. According to Girkin, he was the one who \"pulled the trigger of war\" and it was necessary because acquisition of Crimea alone by Russia \"did not make sense\" and Crimea as part of the Novorossiya \"would make the jewel in the crown of the Russian Empire\". Girkin had been directed to Donbass by Sergey Aksyonov and he entered Ukraine with a group of 52 officers in April, initially taking Slavyansk, Kramatorsk and then other cities. Girkin also talked about the situation in August, when separatist forces were close to defeat and only a prompt intervention of Russian \"leavers\" (ironic term for \"soldiers on leave\") saved them. Their forces took command in the siege of Mariupol as well. In response to internal criticism of the Russian government's policy of not officially recognizing Russian soldiers in Ukraine as fulfilling military service and leaving their families without any source of income if they are killed, president Vladimir Putin signed a new law in October entitling their families to a monthly compensation. Two new entitlement categories were added: \"missing in action\" and \"declared dead\" (as of 1 January 2016).\n\nAlexandr Negrebetskih, a deputy from the Russian city of Zlatoust who fought as a volunteer on the side of separatists, complained in an interview that \"the locals run to Russia, and we have to come here as they are reluctant to defend their land\" which resulted in his detachment being composed of 90% Russians and only 10% locals from Donetsk.\n\nIn November, Lev Shlosberg published a response from a military attorney's office to questions he asked about the status of Pskov paratroopers killed in Ukraine in August. The office answered that the soldiers died while \"fulfilling military service outside of their permanent dislocation units\" (Pskov), but any further information on their orders or location of death was withheld as \"classified\". A political expert Alexey Makarkin compared these answers to those provided by Soviet ministry of defence during the Soviet–Afghan War when the USSR attempted to hide the scale of their casualties at any cost.\n\nNumerous reports of Russian troops and warfare on Ukrainian territory were raised in United Nations Security Council meetings. In 12 November meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom also accused Russia of intentionally constraining OSCE observatory missions' capabilities, pointing out that the observers were allowed to monitor only two kilometers of border between Ukraine and Russia, and drones deployed to extend their capabilities were being jammed or shot down.\n\nIn November, Armament Research Services published a detailed report on arms used by both sides of the conflict, documenting a number of \"flag items\". Among vehicles, they documented the presence of T-72B Model 1989 and T-72B3 tanks, armoured vehicles of models BTR-82AM, MT-LB 6MA, MT-LBVM, and MT-LBVMK, and an Orlan-10 drone and 1RL239 radar vehicle. Among the ammunition, they documented 9K38 Igla (date of manufacture 2014), ASVK rifle (2012), RPG-18 rocket launchers (2011), 95Ya6 rocket boosters (2009) MRO-A (2008), 9M133 Kornet anti-tank weapons (2007), PPZR Grom (2007), MON-50 (2002), RPO-A (2002), PKP (2001), OG-7 (2001), and VSS rifles (1987). These weapons, mostly manufactured in Russia, were used by pro-Russian separatists in the conflict zone, but never \"were in the Ukrainian government inventory prior to the outbreak of hostilities\". The report also noted the use of PPZR Grom MANPADs, produced in Poland and never exported to Ukraine. They were however exported to Georgia in 2007 and subsequently captured by the Russian army during the Russian-Georgian War 2008. Also in November, Pantsir-S1 units were observed in separatist-controlled areas near Novoazovsk, which were never part of the UAF's inventory. Bellingcat maintains a dedicated database of geolocated images of military vehicles specific to each side of the conflict, mostly focused on Russian military equipment found on Ukrainian territory.\n\nIn January 2015, an image of a BPM-97 apparently inside Ukraine, in Luhansk, provided further evidence of Russian military vehicles inside Ukraine.\n\nPoroshenko spoke of a dangerous escalation on 21 January amid reports of more than 2,000 additional Russian troops crossing the border, together with 200 tanks and armed personnel carriers. He abbreviated his visit to the World Economic Forum in Davos because of his concerns at the worsening situation.\n\nIn January, Donetsk, Lugansk, and Mariupol were the three cities that represented the three fronts on which Ukraine was pressed by forces armed, trained and backed by Russia.\n\nOn 29 January, the chief of Ukraine's General Military Staff Viktor Muzhenko said 'the Ukrainian army is not engaged in combat operations against Russian regular units,' but that he had information about Russian civilian and military individuals fighting alongside 'illegal armed groups in combat activities.' Reporting from DPR-controlled areas on 28 January, the OSCE observed on the outskirts of Khartsyzk, east of Donetsk, \"a column of five T-72 tanks facing east, and immediately after, another column of four T-72 tanks moving east on the same road which was accompanied by four unmarked military trucks, type URAL. All vehicles and tanks were unmarked.\" It reported on an intensified movement of unmarked military trucks, covered with canvas. After the shelling of residential areas in Mariupol, NATO's Jens Stoltenberg said: \"Russian troops in eastern Ukraine are supporting these offensive operations with command and control systems, air defence systems with advanced surface-to-air missiles, unmanned aerial systems, advanced multiple rocket launcher systems, and electronic warfare systems.\"'\n\nSvetlana Davydova, a mother of seven, was accused of treason for calling the Ukrainian embassy about Russian troop movements and arrested on 27 January 2015. She was held at the high-security Lefortovo jail in Moscow until her release on 3 February with charges against her still pending. The Russian General Staff said details of the case constituted a \"state secret.\"\n\nIn 2015, president Putin awarded the honorary name of \"Guards\" to two divisions: 11. paratroopers brigade from Ulan-Ude, 83. paratroopers brigade from Ussuriysk and 38. communications regiment from Moscow area. The status was awarded for undisclosed combat operations.\n\nBoth Ukrainian and DNR sides have reported unknown sabotage groups firing at both sides of the conflict and also on residential areas, calling them a \"third force\". SBU published an intercepted call in which DNR commanders reported such a group had been arrested with Russian passports and military documents. DNR confirmed that such groups were indeed stopped and \"destroyed\" but called them \"Ukrainian sabotage groups working to discredit the armed forces of the Russian Federation\".\n\nAccording to a top U.S. general, Russian supplied drones and electronic jamming have ensured Ukrainian troops struggle to counter artillery fire by pro-Russian militants. \"The rebels have Russian-provided UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles) that are giving the rebels the detection capability and the ability to target Ukrainian forces\". Advanced electronic jamming was also reported by OSCE observers on numerous occasions.\n\nUS Army commander in Europe Ben Hodges stated in February 2015 that \"it's very obvious from the amount of ammunition, type of equipment, there's direct Russian military intervention in the Debaltseve area\".\n\nOn 9 February 2015, a group of twenty contract soldiers from Murmansk raised an official complaint to the Russian ministry of defence when they were told they would \"go to the Rostov area and possibly cross the Ukrainian border to fulfill their patriotic duty\". The soldiers notified human rights activists and requested the orders in written form, which they were not given. On 13 February, a young soldier, Ilya Kudryavtsev, was found dead after calling home and informing his relatives that he was to be sent on a mission to Rostov-on-Don, which is the usual starting point to Ukraine. Although he was severely beaten, his death was officially classified as a suicide.\n\nAccording to estimates by the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Russian separatists forces number around 36,000 troops (as compared to 34,000 Ukrainian), of which 8,500-10,000 are purely Russian soldiers. Additionally, around 1,000 GRU troops are operating in the area. According to a military expert, Ilya Kramnik, total Ukrainian forces outnumber the Russian forces by a factor of two (20,000 Russian separatists vs. 40,000 fighting for Ukraine).\n\nIn March 2015, Novaya Gazeta published an interview with a Russian soldier, Dorzhi Batomunkuev, who operated a tank in the Battle of Debaltseve and was wounded. He confirmed that the tanks came from his military unit in Ulan-Ude in Russia and that his unit \"painted over the serial numbers and unit signs straight away on the rail platforms\". In November 2014, Batomunkuev was sent as a conscript to Rostov-on-Don, where he became a contract soldier. Traveling by train with his unit from Ulan-Ude, Batomunkuev said he saw \"plenty of such trains\" travelling along with them \"day after day\". After three months at Kosminskiy training facility, their unit of 31 tanks and 300 soldiers in total (mostly Buryats) was given an order to move on 8 February 2015 and crossed the Ukrainian border in the night, arriving in Donetsk in the morning. They took part in the battle on 12–14 February. Joseph Kobzon met Batomunkuev in the same hospital a few days before the NG interview. In 2016 Alexander Minakov, another Russian soldier wounded in the battle of Debaltseve, was awarded a medal \"For services to the Fatherland\".\n\nA report by Igor Sutyagin published by the Royal United Services Institute in March 2015 stated that a total of 42,000 regular Russian combat troops have been involved in the fighting, with a peak strength of 10,000 in December 2014. The direct involvement of the Russian troops on Ukrainian territory began in August 2014, at a time when Ukrainian military successes created the possibility that the pro-Russian rebels would collapse. According to the report, the Russian troops are the most capable units on the anti-Ukrainian side, with the regular Donetsk and Luhansk rebel formations being used essentially as \"cannon fodder\". The Chicago Council on Global Affairs stated that the Russian separatists enjoyed technical advantages over the Ukrainian army since the large inflow of advanced military systems in mid-2014: effective anti-aircraft weapons (\"Buk\", MANPADS) suppressed Ukrainian air strikes, Russian drones provided intelligence, and Russian secure communications system thwarted the Ukrainian side from communications intelligence. The Russian side also frequently employed electronic warfare systems that Ukraine lacked. Similar conclusions about the technical advantage of the Russian separatists were voiced by the Conflict Studies Research Centre.\n\nIn February 2015, the leading independent Russian newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" reported that it had obtained documents, allegedly written by oligarch Konstantin Malofayev and others, which provided the Russian government with a strategy in the event of Viktor Yanukovych's removal from power and the break-up of Ukraine, which were considered likely. The documents outlined plans for the annexation of Crimea and the eastern portions of the country, closely describing the events that actually followed after Yanukovych's fall. The documents also described plans for a public relations campaign which would seek to justify Russian actions.\n\nIn March 2015, a commander of the DPR special forces unit, Dmitry Sapozhnikov, gave an interview to the BBC in which he spoke openly about the involvement of Russian soldiers in the conflict. He described the arrival of Russian military vehicles and personnel from across the border as critical to the success of large-scale operations such as the battle of Debaltseve. Russian high-rank officers planned the operations and regular Russian army units with DPR forces carried them out jointly. In Sapozhnikov's opinion, \"everyone knows that\" and it's \"no secret\", but he was surprised to find out that it is not so widely acknowledged in Russia when he returned to Saint Petersburg.\n\nIn April 2015, a group of Russian volunteers returning to Ekaterinburg complained in an interview to local media about a lack of support from the local population, who sometimes called them \"occupiers\", and their highly ambiguous status while in Donbass: Ukraine and \"the court in Madrid\" considered them to be terrorists; the DPR considered them \"illegal armed groups\" and offered them contracts, but if they signed they would become mercenaries under Russian law. Another volunteer, a citizen of Latvia nicknamed \"Latgalian\", told on his return from Donbass that he was disappointed with how the situation there differed from what he had seen in the Russian media: he saw no support and sometimes open hostility to the insurgents from the local civilians, presence of Russian troops and military equipment. Also in early April, a number of Russian spetznaz soldiers took pictures of themselves changing their military uniforms into \"miner's battledress\" used by the insurgents, and posted them on their VK pages, where they were picked up by Ukrainian media. Another volunteer, Bondo Dorovskih, who left to Donbass to \"fight fascism\" gave a long interview to Russian media on his return, describing how he found himself \"not in an army, but in a gang\", involved in large-scale looting. He also described the methods used by Russian army to covertly deliver military equipment, people and ammunition to Donbass, as well as hostile attitude of the local civilian population.\n\nOn 22 April 2015, the US Department of State accused the \"combined Russian-separatist forces\" of accumulating air defence systems, UAV along with command and control equipment in eastern Ukraine, and of conducting \"complex\" military training that \"leaves no doubt that Russia is involved in the training\". Russia is also reinforcing its military presence on the eastern border with Ukraine as well as near Belgorod which is close to Kharkiv.\n\nIn May 2015, Reuters interviewed a number of Russian soldiers, some named and some speaking under condition of anonymity, who were serving in Donbass as truck drivers, crew of a T-72B3 tank and of a \"Grad\" launcher. Some of their colleagues resigned when asked to go to Donbass by their commanders, which was \"not an easy decision\" because the salary offered was between 20 and 60,000 rubles per month. The members of the \"Grad\" launcher crew confirmed they were shelling targets in Ukraine from Russian territory, around 2 km from the border.\n\nAllies of Boris Nemtsov released \"Putin. War\", a report on Russian involvement that he had been working on before his death. Other Russian opposition activists announced that they had found fresh graves of members of a GRU special forces brigade that had operated in Ukraine.\n\nIn May, two GRU soldiers, Alexander Alexandrov and Yevgeny Yerofeyev, were captured alive in a battle near Schastie and were later interviewed by press, admitting to being on active duty at the time of capture. Russian military command declared they left active service in December 2014, a claim that was repeated on Russian television by the wife of Alexandrov. Consequently, Ukraine declared it would try them as terrorists, not prisoners of war, and a controversy developed in the Russian press regarding the status of the soldiers. At the same time, Russian journalists found out that their families were strictly isolated from contacts with press and the captured soldiers. While Alexandrov declared he would seek legal methods to confirm his status in Russia, military analyst Alexander Golts considers this impossible as special forces soldiers routinely sign contract termination declaration to be backdated in such a situation.\n\nShortly afterward, a Russian military drone, \"Forpost\", was shot down near Avdeevka and recovered in good condition, with all the serial numbers and nameplates intact. On 28 May 2015, the \"Atlantic Council\" released \"Hiding in Plain Sight: Putin's War in Ukraine\", a report which they said provided \"irrefutable evidence of direct Russian military involvement in eastern Ukraine\".\n\nOn 17 May 2015 two Russian soldiers of the 3rd Guards Spetsnaz Brigade were captured by Secret Service of Ukraine during a battle near town Shchastya (Lughansk oblast, Ukraine). On 18 May they were transferred to Kiev. On 19 May a spokesman for the Russian Defense Ministry stated that the two named prisoners were not active servicemen when they were captured, thus depriving the two Russians of their status as combatants and their protection under the Geneva Convention. The head of Ukraine's Security Service stated that the two men will be prosecuted for \"terrorist acts\". On 20 May 2015 members of the OSCE mission to Ukraine spoke with the Russian soldiers in the hospital. The OSCE 20 May 2015 report includes the following: \n\nIn June 2015, \"Vice News\" reporter Simon Ostrovsky investigated the movements of Bato Dambaev, a Russian contract soldier from Buryatia, through a military camp in Rostov Oblast to Vuhlehirsk in Ukraine during the battle of Debaltseve and back to Buryatia, finding exact locations where Dambaev photographed himself, and came to a conclusion that Dambaev had fought in Ukraine while in active service in the Russian army. With Russia refusing to allow the OSCE to expand its mission, OSCE observer Paul Picard stated that \"We often see how Russian media outlets manipulate our statements. They say that we have not seen Russian troops crossing the borders. But that only applies to two border crossings. We have no idea what is going on at the others.\"\n\nIn July 2015, Ukraine arrested a Russian officer, Vladimir Starkov, when his truck loaded with ammunition took a wrong turn and ended up at a Ukrainian checkpoint. On arrest, Starkov declared that he was a Russian military officer in active service and later explained that he was officially assigned to a Russian military unit in Novocherkassk, but immediately on arrival reassigned to join DPR forces.\n\nIn November 2015, a Russian judge accepted serving in the DNR militia as a mitigating circumstance. On 17 December 2015, Putin admitted that Russian military intelligence officers were operating in Ukraine, stating \"We never said there were not people there who carried out certain tasks including in the military sphere.\"\n\nIn September 2016 OSCE monitoring mission noticed military trucks with partially covered Russian number plates 26 km east from Donetsk. Also in September a Russian soldier Denis Sidorov surrendered to the Ukrainian forces in Shirokaya Balka, revealing details of Russian leadership of the local DNR forces in the area.\n\nOn 17 October 2016 the OSCE mission noted a minivan with \"black licence plates with white lettering\" which are used on military vehicles in Russia. A number of people in civilian and military camouflage were travelling on the vehicle.\n\nRussia officially has long denied organized presence of their military units in Ukraine. Nevertheless, evidence of its soldiers' involvement is rampant. OSCE monitoring mission has on numerous occasions spotted military convoys covertly crossing the border from Russia into Donbass, as well as presence of military equipment produced in Russia and never exported to Ukraine.\n\nOn 25 August 2014 ten Russian paratroopers were captured in Ukraine, the Russian Ministry of Defense maintained that the men were lost and crossed the border into Ukraine by accident. In May 2015 two suspected Russian GRU agents (Military intelligence) were detained by Ukrainian forces, Russia's Ministry of Defense stated the men were former soldiers who were not on active duty at the time of capture. The two men were later exchanged for captured Ukrainian pilot and politician Nadiya Savchenko In July 2015 a Russian major was detained near Donetsk as he drove an ammunition truck into a Ukrainian checkpoint, the Russian military maintained the man was not involved with the Russian military and fought for local separatists. The major was later exchanged for captured Ukrainian soldiers. In September 2015 Ukraine's border guards detained 2 Russian internal troops when they crossed the border in Ukraine's Luhansk oblast, the Russian servicemen stated they were lost and crossed the border by accident, with the Russian Military of Defense accusing Ukraine's forces of crossing into the nearby Russian village and abducting the servicemen. In October 2015, Russian Ministry of Defence admitted that \"special forces were pulled out of Ukraine and sent to Syria\" and that they were serving in eastern Ukraine on territories held by pro-Russian rebels. On 17 December 2015 when asked about the two detained Russian citizens in Ukraine who were being accused of being military intelligence officers President Vladimir Putin responded: \"We never said there were not people there who carried out certain tasks including in the military sphere.\" This was generally taken as an admission that Russian military operatives were deployed to Ukraine. Before that declaration there had been a large amount of circumstantial evidence that confirmed the presence of Russia's military. \n\nLarge part of the circumstantial evidence are military vehicles and weapons that are unique to Russian armed forces and never present in Ukraine before the conflict captured by journalists and found on social media. The OSCE monitoring mission has also noted the presence of troops declaring themselves as Russian servicemen in DPR-controlled territory. As the rest of the post-Soviet republics every Russian military equipment has a hull number (\"bortovoi nomer\"). However equipment in possession of the LPR and DPR has all hull number painted over to conceal its relation to the Russian Armed Forces.\n\nIn 2015, NATO spokesman Robert Pszczel stated in an interview for Dozhd TV that the alliance has sufficient evidence to make \"28 member states of the alliance have no doubts about military involvement of Russia\" in the Donbass conflict.\n\nIn a battle at Donetsk airport at least 31 of the people killed were Russian citizens and were delivered back to Russia. A report for the independent news site \"Novaya Gazeta\", reprinted in \"The Guardian\", tracked down the widow of one Russian man who died during the fighting at Donetsk airport, and sought to shed light onto the obscure structures that organised the transfer of fighters to Ukraine. The report further highlighted the 'frustration of dealing with Russian officialdom apparently so keen to cover up all traces of those fighting across the border'.\n\nAlexander Zakharchenko said that 1200 fighters had trained in Russia for four months, crossed the border, and were ready to fight. Zakharchenko said the reinforcements included 30 tanks and 120 armoured vehicles. He later denied making the comments.\n\nCases of Russian soldiers killed and wounded in Ukraine are widely discussed in local Russian media in the republics from which they originated. Recruitment for Donbass is performed rather openly via veteran and other paramilitary organisations. Vladimir Yefimov, leader of one of such organisations, explained in details in an interview how the process works in Ural area. The organisation recruits mostly army veterans, but also policemen, firefighters etc. with military experience. The cost of equipping one volunteer is estimated at around 350,000 rubles (around $6500) plus cost of the volunteer's salary from 60,000 to 240,000 rubles per month depending on their experience. The volunteers are issued a document claiming that their participation is limited to \"offering humanitarian help\" to avoid Russian mercenary laws. In Russia's anti-mercenary legislation a mercenary is defined as someone who \"takes part [in fighting] with aims counter to the interests of the Russian Federation\". The recruited travel to the conflict zone without weapons, which are given at the destination. Often, Russian troops have travelled disguised as Red Cross personnel. Igor Trunov, head of Russian Red Cross in Moscow condemned these convoys, saying they made delivery of real humanitarian aid more difficult.\n\nAnother leader of a \"patriotic organisation\" from Orsk, Pavel Korovin, estimated that a total of around 12,000 fighters for Donbass had been recruited from Russia. A significant proportion were people in difficult financial situations, attracted by a high salary (one of the volunteers was promised 100,000 rubles or $1600). Responding to concerns about crossing the Ukrainian border, he explained that \"there is a green light for the volunteers on the border\" and \"all that is covered by appropriate structures\". The family of a killed volunteer, when asking about help in bringing back the body, is advised to \"speak to the FSB, only they are controlling everything there\".\n\nShortly before his death, Boris Nemtsov was reportedly contacted by a group of \"paratroopers from Ivanovo\" who complained about significant losses in their unit during a battle in Ukraine and the lack of the promised payment. Nemtsov was preparing a larger report documenting cases of Russian soldiers taking part in the war in Donbass, which is considered a possible reason for his assassination.\n\nThe repatriation of Russians killed in action or taken as prisoners of war has become a controversial topic in the media due to the Russian state's denial of involvement in Ukraine. The \"Associated Press\" compared it to the Soviet Union's secrecy during its war in Afghanistan, noting \"When the true numbers of casualties became known, the invasion turned unpopular.\" Russian military officials tell family members only that the soldiers are on \"training exercises\".\n\nValentina Melnikova, head of the Russian Union of Committees of Soldiers' Mothers, has said that the Russian authorities were threatening the relatives of soldiers who had been killed in Ukraine, and forcing them to keep silent about their deaths. The Kremlin has tried to systematically intimidate and silence human rights workers who have raised questions about Russian soldiers' deaths in Ukraine. In mid-September 2014, Ksenia Batanova, a senior producer for the news network \"Dozhd\", was assaulted in an attack that fractured her skull. \"Dozhd\" is a channel that has covered the Russian involvement in Ukraine, and kept a running tally of soldiers' deaths. The Kremlin's pressure on \"Dozhd\" intensified during the Ukraine crisis. The BBC reported on the death on 12 August 2014 of a Russian soldier, Konstantin, whose telephone calls to his sister had spoken of Ukraine. The BBC team was stopped and attacked by thugs and its video camera smashed. Lev Shlosberg, an MP who was beaten unconscious after investigating the deaths of twelve paratroopers, said, \"A great many Russian servicemen have died in Ukraine and their families are outraged but they don't speak out because they are afraid for their lives.\" Boris Vishnevsky, of the Yabloko political party, and Lyudmila Ivakhnina of the civil rights group Memorial, said that gathering information about conscripts pressured to sign professional contracts is difficult because of the fear of reprisals.\n\nThe Union of the Committees of Soldiers' Mothers of Russia started actively questioning the government's policy of \"secret war\" after a number of Russian soldiers officially sent for \"training\" to Rostov area died for reasons never officially revealed to the families. These cases were further investigated by non-mainstream media in Russia. The Russian Ministry of Defence always denied the presence of any Russian soldiers in Ukraine and, when presented with undeniable evidence about specific individuals, suggested that they might have crossed the border \"by mistake\", were \"on holiday\" at the time, or that their contracts were cancelled (but actually backdated). Soldier's Mothers stated that if the deceased Russian soldiers weren't officially sent to the war zone, their families would not receive social support and the veteran's pension.\n\nOn 2 October 2014, RBC published \"An RBC investigation: Where Russian soldiers in Ukraine are from\", in which it listed Russian military divisions, soldiers of which are assumed to have been secretly dispatched from Russia to Ukraine and used there. In 2015, Vice News published a series titled \"Russia's Ghost Army in Ukraine\" in which they spoke to a number of families of Russian soldiers killed in Ukraine. The mother of Sergey Andrianov, a Russian from Podsolnechnoe in Samara Oblast who was killed on 28 August 2014, presents a number of documents she received from her son's military unit: the death certificate issued in Rostov-on-Don that specifies that he died at a \"place of temporary placement\" while \"completing a special task\" and a document certifying \"transportation of the body through the border of Russian Federation\". All of the mother's questions to her son's commanders were dismissed as a \"state secret\" and she was told that she would receive compensation of 100,000 rubles ($1600).\n\nOn 16 October 2014, the deputy chief of the Security Service of Ukraine said that the service had released 16 out of 131 servicemen of the Armed Forces of Russian Federation back home to their relatives who petitioned through a hotline.\n\nAccording to soldiers' rights advocates, the families of Russian soldiers killed after being sent to Ukraine have been told to keep silent, and some families say they have not received the various compensations they are entitled to after a breadwinner in military service has been killed. Svetlana Davydova, a mother of seven, was arrested in 2015, accused of treason for calling the Ukrainian embassy about Russian troop movements, and was held at the high-security Lefortovo jail in Moscow. The Russian General Staff said details of the case constituted a \"state secret\". The charges against Davydova were dropped the following month. An amendment signed by Putin in late May 2015 banned information about the deaths of Russian servicemen \"during special operations\" in peacetime.\n\nDiscussing Russian volunteers in an interview with RIA Novosti on 22 June 2015, Nikolai Patrushev, secretary of the Security Council of Russia, stated: \"We don't call on anyone to do this, we don't encourage it. But realistically, to stop them would be impossible\". While Russia has charged one of its citizens, Roman Zheleznov, for fighting in the Ukrainian Azov Battalion, as of 25 June 2015, it has charged no one for fighting alongside the separatists. Since counting began on 1 September 2014 until 1 June 2015, the European monitoring mission on the Russian side of the border has recorded 20,021 men in military uniforms crossing to and from rebel-controlled eastern Ukraine.\n\nIn July 2015, a number of Russian contract soldiers at \"Kadamovskiy\" poligon (Rostovskaya oblast) were charged with desertion after they refused to go into Ukraine as \"volunteers\". They reported frequent visits of recruiters promising veteran status and daily payment of 8,000 rubles for those fighting in Donbass. They said they were unaware that the money is rarely paid and in case of death, capture or injury in battle they will be most likely abandoned and their official military status denied by Russian army. Later that year they were convicted for \"refusal to carry out orders\" in spite of lack of any orders presented by the prosecution and other inconsistencies.\n\nIn September 2015 OSCE monitoring mission spotted Russian TOS-1 \"Buratino\" thermobaric weapon launchers in separatist training area near Lugansk and in June 2016 its drone spotted a camouflaged R-330ZH \"Zhitel\" electronic countermeasure station 15 km from Donetsk, these findings being notable as both weapons are unique to the army of Russian Federation.\n\nBy October 2015, eastern Ukraine and Crimea were two of Russia's frozen zones. The chances were that the frozen conflict might persist in the Donbass, where the fighting was at a low level, but the threat of escalation remained.\n\nIn June 2017 another GRU officer Viktor Ageyev was captured by Ukrainian Forces in Zhelobok in the Luhansk oblast. Russian Ministry of Defence denied that he was in active military service but investigation by BBC Russian Service confirmed Ageyev was on military contract in Russian army since March 2017.\n\nOn 30 June 2017 Sergey Lavrov, Russian minister of foreign affairs, openly admitted and justified Russian involvement in Donbass:\n\nCitizen journalist Eliot Higgins has pointed to the unusual spike in medals awarded to Russian troops coinciding with major battles occurring in Ukraine. It was noticed that between 25 August 2003 and 7 November 2014 there was 0.6 medals \"For Distinction in Combat\" awarded to Russian servicemen per day. However, between 7 November 2014 and 18 February 2016 there was an average of 9.3 medals awarded per day, over a fifteenfold increase. Moreover, the award dates directly coincide with major conflicts occurring in Ukraine at the time. August 2014 sees an initial spike of 60 medal per day being awarded, which coincides with reports of regular Russian troops crossing into Ukraine to aid separatist forces. The medal awards peak during November and December 2014, at over 70 per day, which was a crucial turning point during the Second Battle of Donetsk Airport, continuing to remain at over 10 medals per day until March 2015, which coincides with the Battle of Debaltseve. Also important to note is that the medal \"For Distinction in Combat\" may only be awarded for activities undertaken during a combat mission, therefore the large spike in medals awarded in late 2014 and early 2015 suggests a large contingent of Russian servicemen undertaking combat missions. In all 4300 medals were awarded between 7 July 2014 and 18 February 2016, suggesting combat operations involving active duty Russian military personnel occurred during the time period. Likewise spikes in awarding other medals were seen as well. The medal \"For Courage\" which was awarded at a rate of 1.4 medals per day between September 2008 and August 2014 increased to 6.3 medals per day between August 2014 and November 2015. The \"Medal of Suvorov\" saw an increase of award rate from 1.5 medals per day between October 2013 and November 2014 to 6.8 medals per day after November 2014. In fact in the time period between 24 November 2014 and 25 January 2015 more of the medals were awarded then all of 2013 combined.\n\nIn a press briefing by the Ukrainian Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council (NSDC), Andriy Parubiy stated that militants were trained in a military facility in Rostov-on-Don, Russia. \"Near Rostov-on-Don, there is a big military base where terrorists are preparing for deployment into the territory of the Ukrainian state. This is confirmed not only by our intelligence, but also Russian prisoners who were detained, and they testify about this base,\" Parubiy said. He added that more than a thousand militants are trained by Russian instructors, and then they in small armed groups try to break into the territory of Ukraine. On 21 May, Ukraine detained a Russian citizen trying to enter the country; he had military experience and was found to have recently trained in the Rostov facility.\n\nAccording to Russian 'volunteer' insurgent organiser Aleksandr Zhuchkovsky, Rostov-on-Don acts as a staging area, where soldiers live in hotels, rented flats and tent camps. In particular, the New York Times reports that the small village of Golovinka (about northwest of Rostov-on-Don) and nearby Kuzminka military base is a staging area for Russian soldiers and weapons headed to Ukraine.\n\nIn June 2014, Jen Psaki stated that the United States Department of State was confident that Russia had sent tanks and rocket launchers from a deployment site in southwest Russia into eastern Ukraine, and NATO satellite imagery showed that on 10 and 11 June main battle tanks were stationed across the border at Donetsk in a staging area in Rostov-on-Don.\n\nIn July 2014, Reuters published a logbook of an 9K38 Igla missile that was signed out of military storage in Moscow for a military base in Rostov-on-Don, and ended up with insurgents in Donbass, where it was eventually taken over by the Ukrainian forces.\n\nAfter OSCE observers arrived at Gukovo border crossing on 9 August, they reported that there was a stream of multiple groups of people wearing military-style dress crossing the border between Russia and Ukraine, in both directions, some of them clearly identifying themselves as members of DNR militia. They also observed several ambulance evacuations of wounded supporters of the DPR and LPR.\n\nIn February 2015, a group of Spanish nationals were arrested in Madrid for fighting in the war in Donbass on the separatist side. Travelling through Moscow, they were met by a \"government official\" and sent to Donetsk, where they were provided with accommodation, uniforms and weapons, but they fought as volunteers. They stated there are \"a few hundreds\" of Western volunteers, mostly from Serbia and France, \"half of them communists, half Nazis\", fighting jointly for the \"liberation of Russia from Ukrainian invasion\".\n\nIn March 2016, Germany's Bild reported that minutes from an October 2015 meeting of the \"Interministerial Commission for the Provision of Humanitarian Aid for the Affected Areas of the Southeast of the Donetsk and Lugansk Regions\" indicated that Russia was running militant-controlled parts of east Ukraine. According to Bild, \"It is notable that no members of the self-declared people's republics in eastern Ukraine are on the commission\".\n\nInterim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov accused Russia of \"provoking a conflict\" by backing the seizure of the Crimean parliament building and other government offices on the Crimean peninsula. He compared Russia's military actions to the 2008 Russo-Georgian War, when Russian troops occupied parts of the Republic of Georgia and the breakaway enclaves of Abkhazia and South Ossetia were established under the control of Russian-backed administrations. He called on Putin to withdraw Russian troops from Crimea and stated that Ukraine will \"preserve its territory\" and \"defend its independence\". On 1 March, he warned, \"Military intervention would be the beginning of war and the end of any relations between Ukraine and Russia.\"\n\nOn 1 March, Acting President Oleksandr Turchynov placed the Armed Forces of Ukraine on full alert and combat readiness.\n\nOn 15 April 2014 the Law of Ukraine № 1207-VII \"On Securing the Rights and Freedoms of Citizens and the Legal Regime on the Temporarily Occupied Territory of Ukraine\" was adopted.\n\nOn 16 September 2015 the Ukrainian parliament voted for the law that sets 20 February 2014 as the official date of the Russian temporary occupation of Crimean peninsula. On 7 October 2015 the President of Ukraine signed the law into force.\n\nThe Ministry of Temporarily Occupied Territories and IDPs was established by Ukrainian government on 20 April 2016 to manage occupied parts of Donetsk, Luhansk and Crimea regions affected by Russian military intervention of 2014.\n\nOn 4 March 2014, the United States pledged $1 billion in aid to Ukraine.\n\nRussia's actions increased tensions in nearby countries historically within its sphere of influence, particularly the Baltic and Moldova. All have large Russian-speaking populations, and Russian troops are stationed in the breakaway Moldovan territory of Transnistria. Some devoted resources to increasing defensive capabilities, and many requested increased support from the U.S. and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which they had joined in recent years. The conflict \"reinvigorated\" NATO, which had been created to face the Soviet Union, but had devoted more resources to \"expeditionary missions\" in recent years.\nNATO increasingly saw Russia as an adversary, though officials hoped this would be temporary. Initial deployments in March and early April were restricted to increased air force monitoring and training in the Baltics and Poland, and single ships in the Black Sea. On 16 April, officials announced the deployment of ships to the Baltic and Mediterranean Seas, and increasing exercises in \"Eastern Europe\". The measures were apparently limited so as not to appear aggressive. Leaders emphasized that the conflict was not a new Cold War but some analysts disagreed. Others supported applying George F. Kennan's concept of containment to possible Russian expansion. Former U.S. Ambassador to Russia Michael McFaul said, \"We are enduring a drift of disengagement in world affairs. As we pull back, Russia is pushing forward. I worry about the new nationalism that Putin has unleashed and understand that many young Russians also embrace these extremist ideas.\"\n\nBeginning 23 April 600 US troops from the 173rd Airborne Brigade Combat Team held bilateral exercises in Poland and the Baltic. Plans were made for a communications mission to counter Russian propaganda in eastern Ukraine, improve internal Ukrainian military communication, and handle apparent Russian infiltration of the security services.\n\nGeorgia intensified its push for entry into NATO. It had hoped to gain Membership Action Plan status in September. It also expressed interest in a missile defence system via NATO.\n\nOn 5 March the Pentagon announced, independently of NATO, that it would send six fighter jets and a refueling aircraft to augment the four already participating in the Baltic Air Policing mission.\nThe US rotation was due to last through the end of April. The Polish Air Force was scheduled to participate from 1 May through 31 August.\n\nAn , , crossed into the Black Sea on 6 March to participate in long-planned exercises with Bulgaria and Romania. American officials stated that it was part of a routine deployment for exercises with the Bulgarian and Romanian navies. \"Truxtun\" left the Black Sea by 28 March, but some politicians argued that it should return as a show of support. An additional 175 Marines were to be deployed to the Black Sea Rotational Force in Romania, though this was decided in late 2012.\n\nOn 10 April, the guided missile destroyer entered the Black Sea to \"reassure NATO allies and Black Sea partners of America's commitment to strengthen and improve interoperability while working towards mutual goals in the region\", according to a Pentagon spokesman. On 14 April, the ship was repeatedly buzzed by a Su-24 Russian attack aircraft. \"Donald Cook\" left the Black Sea on 28 April, leaving .\n\nOn 30 April, Canada redeployed from counter-terrorist operations in the Arabian Sea, likely to join Standing NATO Maritime Group 1, which had itself been reassigned to the eastern Mediterranean in response to events in Ukraine.\n\n\nNATO foreign ministers at a meeting in early April did not rule out stationing troops in countries near Russia, saying that Russia had \"gravely breached the trust upon which our cooperation must be based\". Poland requested that \"two heavy brigades\" be stationed on its territory, to mixed responses; NATO considered increased support for Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Moldova.\n\nAccording to \"Stars and Stripes\", the Atlas Vision exercise with Russia (planned for July) was cancelled. The Rapid Trident exercise in western Ukraine, scheduled for the same time, was to proceed as planned, as was the naval exercise Sea Breeze.\n\nFrance suspended most military cooperation with Russia and considered halting the sale of two warships it had been contracted to build.\nCanada, the UK,\nand Norway\nall suspended cooperation to some extent. On 1 April, NATO suspended all military and civilian cooperation with Russia. Russian diplomatic access to NATO headquarters was restricted.\n\nOn 8 May, Russia conducted a large-scale military drill simulating US/NATO nuclear attacks. Analysts considered it to be politically motivated to compete with NATO.\n\nNATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has called for more cooperation with Russia in the fight against terrorism following a deadly attack on the headquarters of a French satirical weekly magazine \"Charlie Hebdo\" in January 2015.\n\nIn March 2014 Ukraine reported that Russian units in Belarus were participating in Russia's military exercises near the Ukrainian border and expressed concern about this being a direct threat to Ukraine.\n\nOn 7 March 2014, the Turkish Air Force reported it scrambled six F-16 fighter jets after a Russian surveillance plane flew along Turkey's Black Sea coast. It was the second incident of its kind reported that week, with one occurring the day before on 6 March. The Russian plane remained in international airspace. Diplomatic sources revealed that Turkey has warned Russia that if it attacks Ukraine and its Crimean Tatar population, it would blockade Russian ships' passage to the Black Sea.\n\nSeveral members of the international community have expressed grave concerns over the Russian intervention in Ukraine and criticized Russia for its actions in post-revolutionary Ukraine, including the United States, the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, South Korea, Georgia, Moldova, Turkey, Australia and the European Union as a whole, which condemned Russia, accusing it of breaking international law and violating Ukrainian sovereignty. Many of these countries implemented economic sanctions against Russia or Russian individuals or companies, to which Russia responded in kind. Amnesty International has expressed its belief that Russia is fuelling the conflict.\nThe UN Security Council held a special meeting March 1, 2014 on the crisis. The G7 countries condemned the violation of Ukraine's sovereignty, and urged Russia to withdraw. All G7 leaders are refusing to participate in it due to assumed violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine, in contravention of Russia's obligations under the UN Charter and its 1997 basing agreement with Ukraine.\n\nIn 2014, OSCE Parliamentary Assembly published a statement (the \"Baku Declaration\") discussing the events in Ukraine in detail. Specifically, it pointed out that Russia is a signatory of the Helsinki Accords and committed to observing its rules, including respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of other member countries, as well as the Budapest Memorandum on Security Assurances that specifically guaranteed the integrity of Ukraine's borders. As noted by OSCE, \"Russian Federation has, since February 2014, violated every one of the ten Helsinki principles in its relations with Ukraine, some in a clear, gross and thus far uncorrected manner, and is in violation with the commitments it undertook in the Budapest Memorandum, as well as other international obligations\". OSCE condemned actions of the Russian Federation, calling them \"coercion\" and \"military aggression\" that are \"designed to subordinate the rights inherent in Ukraine's sovereignty to the Russian Federation's own interests\". In 2016 OSCE deputy mission head in Ukraine Alexander Hug summarized the mission's two years of observations stating that \"since the beginning of the conflict\" the mission has seen \"armed people with Russian insignia\", vehicle tracks crossing border between Russia and Ukraine as well as talked to prisoners who were declaring themselves Russian soldiers.\n\nIn January 2015, Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) accepted a resolution that noted \"the direct involvement of the Russian Federation in the emergence and worsening of the situation in these parts of Ukraine\" and called both sides to fully respect the terms of Minsk Agreement.\n\nIn June 2015, OSCE PA repeated condemnation of \"Russia's aggression against Ukraine, including its illegal annexation and occupation of Crimea\" (\"Helsinki Declaration\"). On 28 August 2015 Poland's newly elected President Andrzej Duda said in Berlin during talks with German President Joachim Gauck and Chancellor Angela Merkel that Poland is already taking in large numbers of refugees from the Ukraine conflict as part of the EU's refugee programme, and does not intend to join in talks conducted since 2014 by France, Germany, Russia and Ukraine. The policy of strategic partnership between Kiev and Warsaw requires further strengthening of military and technical cooperation, best exemplified by the Lithuanian–Polish–Ukrainian Brigade, but the more immediate task, informed Poland's State secretary Krzysztof Szczerski, is the Ukraine's constitutional reform leading to broad decentralization of power, in which Poland's post-Soviet experience is going to be used.\n\nIn September 2015 the United Nations Human Rights Office estimated that 8000 casualties had resulted from the conflict, noting that the violence has been \"fuelled by the presence and continuing influx of foreign fighters and sophisticated weapons and ammunition from the Russian Federation\".\n\nThe intervention caused turbulence in financial markets. Many markets around the world fell slightly due to the threat of instability. The Swiss franc climbed to a 2-year high against the dollar and 1-year high against the Euro. The Euro and the US dollar both rose, as did the Australian dollar. The Russian stock market declined by more than 10 percent, whilst the Russian ruble hit all-time lows against the US dollar and the Euro. The Russian central bank hiked interest rates and intervened in the foreign exchange markets to the tune of $12 billion to try to stabilize its currency. Prices for wheat and grain rose, with Ukraine being a major exporter of both crops. In early August 2014, the German DAX was down by 6 percent for the year, and 11 percent since June, over concerns Russia, Germany's 13th biggest trade partner, would retaliate against sanctions.\n\n\nStreet protests against the war in Ukraine have arisen in Russia itself. Notable protests first occurred in March and large protests occurred in September when \"tens of thousands\" protested the war in Ukraine with a peace march in downtown Moscow on Sunday, 21 September 2014, \"under heavy police supervision\".\n\nCritics of Vladimir Putin also express cautious criticism in the press and social media. Garry Kasparov, a consistent critic of Putin, whom he has called 'a revanchist KGB thug', has written on the Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 shootdown and called for Western action.\n\nAn August 2014 survey by the Levada Center reported that only 13% of those Russians polled would support the Russian government in an open war with Ukraine.\n\nFormer Russian vice-minister of foreign affairs Giorgi Kunadze said that if Western policy toward Russia had been tougher in 2008, during the Russo-Georgian War, \"there would be no Crimea nor Lugandon\" (the latter was a reference to the LPR).\n\nA poll of the Ukrainian public, excluding Russian-annexed Crimea, was taken by the International Republican Institute from 12–25 September 2014. 89% of those polled opposed 2014 Russian military intervention in Ukraine. As broken down by region, 78% of those polled from Eastern Ukraine (including Dnipropetrovsk Oblast) opposed said intervention, along with 89% in Southern Ukraine, 93% in Central Ukraine, and 99% in Western Ukraine. As broken down by native language, 79% of Russian speakers and 95% of Ukrainian speakers opposed the intervention. 80% of those polled said the country should remain a unitary country.\n\nIn March 2014, Estonia's president Toomas Hendrik Ilves said: \"Justification of a military invasion by a fabricated need to protect ethnic \"compatriots\" resuscitates the arguments used to annex Sudetenland in 1938.\" During the Group of 20 (G-20) summit of world leaders in Brisbane, Australia in November 2014, an incident occurred during private meetings that became quite public. At the private leaders' retreat, held the weekend before the official opening of the summit, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper told Russian President Vladimir Putin \"I guess I'll shake your hand but I have only one thing to say to you: You need to get out of Ukraine.\" The incident occurred as Putin approached Harper and a group of G-20 leaders and extended his hand toward Harper. After the event was over, a \"spokesman for the Russian delegation said Putin's response was: 'That's impossible because we are not there'.\"\n\nIn 2017, Ukraine opened a case against Russia for involvement and financing of terrorism in military occupied Autonomous Republic of Crimea and part of Donbas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43225606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43225606", "title": "Saul M. Ginsburg", "text": "Saul M. Ginsburg\n\nSaul M. Ginsburg (Sha'ul Moiseevich Ginsburg, שאול גינזבורג; born Minsk, 1866 – died New York, 16 November 1940) was a Jewish-Belarusian American author, editor, and historian of Russian Jewry.\n\nGinsburg was born in Minsk, in the Russian Empire. He received both a traditional Jewish and a secular education. In 1891 he graduated with a law degree from the University of St. Petersburg.\n\nIn 1892 Ginsburg began writing for the Russian-Jewish periodical Voskhod in St. Petersburg, where he remained for the next several decades. His contributions to \"Voskhod\" included articles on Russian Jewish history, and a regularly appearing survey of the Hebrew press (under the pseudonym \"Ha-Kore\"). In 1899 he became a member of the editorial board.\n\nTogether with Pesach Marek, Ginsburg compiled an anthology of Yiddish-language folk songs (\"Evreiskiia narodnyia piesni v Rossii\"), which was published as a supplement to \"Voskhod\" in 1901, and came to be regarded as a landmark work in Jewish folklore.\n\nIn 1903 Ginsburg founded \"Der fraynd\" (The Friend), the first Yiddish-language newspaper to be published in St. Petersburg, and the first Yiddish daily in the Russian Empire. With its high literary and orthographic standards, the paper is credited with helping to shape the development of modern Yiddish culture.\n\nGinsburg withdrew as an editor at \"Der fraynd\" in 1908 and in the following years devoted himself more fully to studies of the political, social, and cultural history of Russian Jewry. In 1913 he published a study of Russian Jews at the time of the invasion of Russia in 1812 during the Napoleonic Wars (\"Otechestvennaya voina 1812 goda i russkie yevrei\"). He also co-edited the Russian-language journal \"Perezhitoe\" (1908–1913), which specialized in the publication of primary sources for Russian Jewish history.\n\nIn 1919 Ginsburg became a professor of Jewish history at the newly opened Institute of Higher Jewish Studies in Petrograd – as St. Petersburg was by then known – which offered the first university-level program in Jewish studies in Russia. He continued to teach there until the institute closed, in 1925, by which time the Soviet Union had been established (in 1922), and the city had been renamed Leningrad (in 1924).\n\nGinsburg emigrated from the Soviet Union in 1930, settling at first in Paris. Around 1933 he immigrated to the United States and settled in New York City. There he published popular historical essays regularly in the Yiddish-language newspaper \"Forverts\" (Jewish Daily Forward). A three-volume Yiddish-language collection of Ginsburg's historical writings on Russian Jewry (\"Historishe verk\") was published in New York in 1937–1938; two additional volumes of collected writings were published posthumously, in 1944 and 1946.\n\nSaul Ginsburg was married to Bronislawa Berchine Ginsburg. The couple had one son, Michael Ginsburg, who, like his parents, emigrated to the United States. Bronislawa Ginsburg sometimes assisted her husband in his research and writing, and the preparation of articles for the newspaper. Michael Ginsburg went on to have a distinguished career in the United States as a professor of Slavic studies.\n\nIn Yiddish\n\nIn English\n\n"}
{"id": "21280034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21280034", "title": "Semyon Reznik", "text": "Semyon Reznik\n\n'Semyon Reznik (Russ.Семён Ефимович Резник) (b. 1938 in Moscow) is a Russian writer, journalist, man of letters and historian, noted in particular for his study of the blood libel and the resurgence of Neonazism in Russia. He was the longtime editor of the important Soviet era biographical book series \"Lives of Remarkable People\" (\"ЖЗЛ\") to which he also contributed several items as an author. \n\nHe emigrated to the United States in 1982, where he became a radio personality and a writer for the Russian desk of the Voice of America. He is a member of the International PEN Club; member of the Union of Writers of Moscow.\n\nIn 2016 he wrote an open letter to Aaron Sorkin in which he expressed his support for Donald Trump, called Sorkin “talkative underwit” and “shameless demagogue” and suggested that he leaves the United States, because “it will improve the environment”, “the air will become cleaner”.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42220079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42220079", "title": "Socialist mode of production", "text": "Socialist mode of production\n\nIn Marxist theory, socialism (also called the socialist mode of production) refers to a specific historical phase of economic development and its corresponding set of social relations that supersede capitalism in the schema of historical materialism. The Marxist definition of socialism is a mode of production where the sole criterion for production is use-value and therefore the law of value no longer directs economic activity. Marxist production for use is coordinated through \"conscious\" economic planning, while distribution of economic output is based on the principle of \"to each according to his contribution\". The social relations of socialism are characterized by the working class effectively owning the means of production and the means of their livelihood, either through cooperative enterprises or by public ownership or private artisanal tools and self-management, so that the social surplus accrues to the working class and society as a whole.\n\nThis view is consistent with, and helped to inform, early conceptions of socialism where the law of value no longer directs economic activity, and thus monetary relations in the form of exchange-value, profit, interest and wage labor would not operate and apply to Marxist socialism. \n\nThe Marxian conception of socialism stands in contrast to other early conceptions of socialism, most notably early forms of market socialism based on classical economics such as mutualism and Ricardian socialism. Unlike the Marxian conception, these conceptions of socialism retained commodity exchange (markets) for labor and the means of production, seeking to perfect the market process. The Marxist idea of socialism was also heavily opposed to utopian socialism.\n\nAlthough Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels wrote very little on socialism and neglected to provide any details on how it might be organized, numerous social scientists and neoclassical economists have used Marx's theory as a basis for developing their own models of socialist economic systems. The Marxist view of socialism served as a point of reference during the socialist calculation debate.\n\nSocialism is a post-commodity economic system, meaning that production is carried out to directly produce use-value (to directly satisfy human needs, or economic demands) as opposed to being produced with a view to generating a profit. The stage in which the accumulation of capital was viable and effective is rendered insufficient at the socialist stage of social and economic development, leading to a situation where production is carried out independently of capital accumulation in a supposedly \"planned\" fashion. Although Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels understood \"planning\" to involve the input and decisions of the individuals involved at localized levels of production and consumption, planning has been interpreted to mean centralized planning by Marxist-Leninists during the 20th century. However, there have been other conceptions of economic planning, including decentralized-planning and participatory planning. It is important to notice and to not make the mistake that Marx' theory and thinking output has anything to do with what Stalin has made from it. Marx' main manuscript, a postum work is called 'Grundrisse' was published in 1953 (the year Stalin died). In this work, most areas of Marx' thinking output are explored: production, consumption, distribution, social impact of capitalism, communism as the next level after capitalism as a live model for humans emphasizing fair distribution of goods, equality and the optimum environment for humans to live in to develop themselves to their best capabilities (art, politics, philosophy) in order to achieve happiness and to satisfy intrinsic needs (whatever they may be). The goal of Marx was to design a social system which eliminates the differences in classes between the poor (proletarians) and the rich (bourgeoise). By achieving this elimination, the tension and the power differences are gone to force the workers to work under bad conditions with way too low salaries (loans). Capitalism was, according Marx, a system which was guarateed to lead to a secured downfall because big companies will buy small companies leading to monopolism, so there will be a very small population owning all the money (and power) and there will be a huge amount of people having no money and therefore no potential to buy products from the capitalistic production system. For sure a revolution would happen. What Marx' oversaw was that the loanworkers were paid as such that they were and still are able to buy products from the capitalistic production system, in other words, the workers became as essential part to assure the capitalistic system is still alive and dominant in most of world's nations. \n\nIn contrast to capitalism, which relies upon the coercive market forces to compel capitalists to produce use-values as a byproduct of the pursuit of profit, socialist production is to be based on the rational planning of use-values and coordinated investment decisions to attain economic goals. As a result, the cyclical fluctuations that occur in a capitalist market economy will not be present in a socialist economy. The value of a good in socialism is its physical utility rather than its embodied labor, cost of production and exchange value as in a capitalist system.\n\nSocialism would make use of incentive-based systems, and inequality would still exist but to a diminishing extent as all members of society would be worker-owners. This eliminates the severity of previous tendencies towards inequality and conflicts arising over ownership of the means of production and property income accruing to a small class of owners. The method of compensation and reward in a socialist society would be based on an authentic meritocracy, along the principle of \"from each according to his ability, to each according to his contribution\".\n\nThe advanced stage of socialism, referred to as \"upper-stage communism\" in the \"Critique of the Gotha Programme\", is based on the socialist mode of production but is differentiated from lower-stage socialism in a few fundamental ways. While socialism implies public ownership (by a state apparatus) or cooperative ownership (by a worker cooperative enterprise), communism would be based on common ownership of the means of production. Class distinctions based on ownership of capital cease to exist, along with the need for a state. A superabundance of goods and services are made possible by automated production that allow for goods to be distributed based on need rather than merit.\n\nThe fundamental goal of socialism from the view of Marx and Engels was the realization of human freedom and individual autonomy. Specifically, this refers to freedom from the alienation imposed upon individuals in the form of coercive social relationships as well as material scarcity, whereby the individual is compelled to engage in activities merely to survive (to reproduce his or herself). The aim of socialism is to provide an environment whereby individuals are free to express their genuine interests, creative freedom, and desires unhindered by forms of social control that force individuals to work for a class of owners who expropriate and live off the surplus product.\n\nAs a set of social relationships, socialism is defined by the degree to which economic activity in society is planned by the associated producers, so that the surplus product produced by socialized assets is controlled by a majority of the population through democratic processes. The sale of labor power would be abolished so that every individual participates in running their institution as stakeholders or members with no one having coercive power over anyone else in a vertical social division of labor (which is to be distinguished from a non-social, technical division of labor which would still exist in socialism). The incentive structure changes in a socialist society given the change in the social environment, so that an individual laborers' work becomes increasingly autonomous and creative, creating a sense of responsibility for his or her institution as a stakeholder.\n\nIn Marxist theory, the state is \"the institution of organised violence which is used by the ruling class of a country to maintain the conditions of its rule. Thus, it is only in a society which is divided between hostile social classes that the state exists.\" The state is thus seen as a mechanism that is dominated by the interests of the ruling class and utilized to subjugate other classes in order to protect and legitimize the existing economic system.\n\nAfter a workers' revolution, the state would initially become the instrument of the working class. Conquest of the state apparatus by the working class must take place to establish a socialist system. As socialism is built, the role and scope of the state changes as class distinctions (based on ownership of the means of production) gradually deteriorate due to the concentration of means of production in state hands. From the point where all means of production become state property, the nature and primary function of the state would change from one of political rule (via coercion) over men by the creation and enforcement of laws into a scientific administration of things and a direction of processes of production; that is the state would become a coordinating economic entity rather than a mechanism of class or political control, and would no longer be a state in the Marxian sense.\n"}
{"id": "19884150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19884150", "title": "Spanish conquest of Iberian Navarre", "text": "Spanish conquest of Iberian Navarre\n\nThe Spanish conquest of the Iberian part of Navarre was initiated by Ferdinand II of Aragon and completed by his grandson and successor Charles V in a series of military campaigns lasting from 1512 to 1524. The war ended in 1528, confined by then to Lower Navarre, north of the Pyrenees. Ferdinand was both the king of Aragon and regent of Castile in 1512. When Pope Julius II declared a Holy League against France in late 1511, Navarre attempted to remain neutral. Ferdinand used this as an excuse to attack Navarre, conquering it while its potential protector, France, was beset by England, Venice, and Ferdinand's own Italian armies.\n\nSeveral attempts were made to reconquer Iberian Navarre immediately following the Castilian invasion. There was a half-hearted attempt in 1516 and a full-fledged Franco-Navarrese campaign in 1521. All attempts were defeated by the Spanish and clashes came to a halt to the north of the Pyrenees in 1528, when Spanish troops withdrew from Lower Navarre. The Treaty of Cambrai between Spain and France in 1529 sealed the division of Navarre along the Pyrenees; the independent Kingdom of Navarre survived in Lower Navarre, ruled by the House of Albrets and united with their principality of Béarn It maintained close links with France. The kingdom was absorbed into France in 1620 (nominally in 1790).\n\nNavarre was mired in instability over the throne since the mid-15th century. At the same time, the Navarre nobility split into two warring factions in the War of the Bands: the Beaumonts; and the Agramonts. This caused ramifications both within and out of Navarre and made it susceptible to external meddling.\n\nWhen Queen Catherine of Navarre married John III of Albret, many in Navarre contested this arrangement. Starting in 1474 the King of Castile, Ferdinand II of Aragon, instituted a combination of alliances and military efforts aimed at securing the control of neighbouring kingdoms. This included attempting to turn Navarre into a \"de facto\" protectorate of Castile in 1476. However, during the following decade the Aragonese king and Queen Isabella I of Castile focused their military efforts on subduing [the [Emirate of Granada]] during a 10-year war. This ended in 1492 with Castile annexing the emirate and putting an end to the Reconquista. After the fall of Granada, pressure on Navarre intensified.\n\nAfter Isabella's death in 1504, Ferdinand unexpectedly married the French princess Germaine of Foix, daughter of a claimant to the throne of Navarre John of Foix, Viscount of Narbonne. Any children from Ferdinand's marriage would have a claim on the crown of Navarre. Ferdinand also wanted to spite his son-in-law and successor Philip, the new King of Castile. As of 1507, with Ferdinand again administering the politics of Castile as a regent, the defiant count of Lerín Louis Beaumont, Ferdinand's key ally in Navarre, revolted along with other lords. However, the royal authority—Catherine and John III—warned Ferdinand that this time no demands from the count would be accepted and no pardon would be granted to the Count of Lerín. It was in 1507, during the fight for Viana, that the \"condottiero\" Cesare Borgia, then in the service of John, was killed by Beaumont knights. In 1508, after a year-long stand-off, the crown launched an offensive to quell the Count's rebellion. Lerín was occupied, and a severe defeat inflicted on Louis.\nRelations between Ferdinand and King Louis XII improved after the former's marriage to Germaine of Foix. The French king put pressure on the Albrets to give up on their principalities outside Navarre—Béarn, Bigorre, County of Foix, etc.—but was met with their strong refusal. In 1507 the Parliament of Navarre appointed a diplomatic task force to France led by John of Jaso—president of the Royal Council of Navarre and father of Francis Xavier—and the bishop of Lescar. The effort was weak, as were other diplomatic approaches. Louis XII coveted the Albrets' territories and resorted to the Parliament of Toulouse, which issued a confiscation decree. When the Parliament of Navarre (\"The Three States\") and the States-General of Béarn were confronted with the possibility of a French takeover in 1510, a military mobilization was decreed and a bill passed to create a Béarn-Navarre confederation and a permanent joint defense provision against external assault. Ferdinand II again searched for allies among the Navarrese Beaumont party.\n\nIn summer 1510 the international scene took a sharp turn in the Italian Wars. Pope Julius II was one of the most ambitious Popes of the era. He had declared a Holy League against Venice in 1508, and defeated it. Then the formerly allied Papal States and France went to war with one another. Julius II declared a new Holy League against France on 4August 1511 after siding with King Ferdinand in the French-Spanish struggle for power in Italy. Navarre refused to join and declared neutrality. Ferdinand II declared war on France in March 1512. A month later, Gaston of Foix died, meaning that Ferdinand's wife Germaine of Foix was able to claim the Pyrenean territories of the Albrets.\n\nKing Louis became more conciliatory with Queen Catherine and King John III, backing down on his territorial demands. Catherine and John III negotiated with Ferdinand too, who intertwined proposals and menaces with the movement of troops to the borders of Navarre. In February 1512, Ferdinand allied with England in a move leading to military intervention in the French royal territory of Guyenne, present-day region Aquitaine. The Navarrese authorities made arrangements for the defense, while Ferdinand designed a plan to invade the kingdom This included a propaganda scheme in which the Navarrese crown would be labeled as schismatic with the support of a papal bull from Pope Julius. To obtain papal agreement to this, Castilian diplomats negotiated with Rome for months.\n\nIn June 1512, tension mounted when the Holy League made a formal petition to send English and Castilian troops through Navarre to France. At the same time a Navarrese diplomatic mission sent to France was holding talks with Louis XII lasting a month, while Ferdinand threatened to cross the border if an agreement was reached. The talks led to the Fourth Treaty of Blois on 18July 1512, providing for mutual assistance to keep Navarre's neutrality. It also brought attention to the English threat to France after their disembarkation in Hondarribia, Gipuzkoa in Basque territory suzerain to Castile. The next day Ferdinand sent his troops across the border from Álava into Navarre, commanded by General Don Fadrique de Toledo, Duke of Alba, who had been involved in the conquest of Granada. By that time a Gipuzkoan militia had broken into Navarre from the north-west and captured Goizueta, a village and fortress bordering on Gipuzkoa on 10July.\n\nIn a few days Castilian troops advanced without resistance to the outskirts of Pamplona, where Ferdinand's ally Count John of Beaumont played host to the invading troops in his fortified palace of Arazuri. The assault troops of the expedition numbered 6,000 veterans, but the whole caravan including the rearguard amounted to 15,000. The population of Pamplona was less than 10,000. Catherine and John III left for Tudela hoping to raise troops among loyal lords, but managed to recruit only 500. Overwhelmed by the sheer size of the Spanish expedition, the loyalists veered east to Lumbier (Irunberri), and on to Lower Navarre. Catherine, John III and their troops retreated to Orthez, Béarn.\n\nPamplona's outer walls were flimsy, and the threat of a sack pronounced by the Duke of Alba loomed over the town. In view of the royal family's retreat to Lumbier, the local authorities surrendered on 25July. Without delay, messengers were sent out by the Castilians to the main fortresses across Navarre demanding that they follow suit. Most of them submitted, except for Amaiur (Baztan), Estella-Lizarra, Tudela and Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port. The authorities of Pamplona were required to vow loyalty to Ferdinand, but they alleged that they could not as they had pledged allegiance to John III, their natural lord, and he was alive. In late August 1512 Ferdinand claimed that he was King of Navarre in law:\"de jure propio\".\n\nTudela in turn was besieged, and resisted the Aragonese assault led by Alfonso of Aragon, a bastard son of Ferdinand II and archbishop of Zaragoza, who was commanding 3,000 infantry and 300 cavalry. The determined loyalty of the local authorities to the Navarrese crown could not hide their low morale on account of the Pope's bull and the hopelessness of their resistance, as set down on letters to the King by the defenders. The town surrendered by 9September 1512 in order to avoid being sacked, further confiscations, and futile bloodshed. Alfonso took an oath to respect the Navarrese laws, following his father Ferdinand's instructions.\n\nBy late August 1512, virtually all Iberian Navarre was under Spanish rule. The Duke of Alba, commanding a force of 3,000 infantry and 300 cavalry supported by a further 400 artillerymen, occupied the Pyrenean valleys of Aezkoa, Salazar, and Roncal. They crossed the Pyrenean passes northbound, taking the Chapel of Roncevaux by surprise, and setting fire to the village. The Castilian forces spearheaded by Colonel Villalba (or the Beaumont party lord Martin of Ursua, depending on sources) arrived in Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port on 10September, only to find that its garrison under the lord of Miossens (an Albret) was abandoning the stronghold. The Castilian forces set about pillaging, burning and terrorising the villages of Lower Navarre, a tactic the Castilian commander tried to justify in his letters. The Church appears to have approved of the enslavement of the Navarrese population.\n\nThe Castilians demanded the submission of all the lords in Lower Navarre (\"Ultrapuertos, Deça-Ports\"), while the Duke of Alba ordered the pulling down of all the tower houses in the territory. The orchards in the Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port (Donibane Garazi in Basque) area were cut down, leaving the local population struggling for subsistence. At this point, Ferdinand demanded a capitulation of Catherine and John III, but offered to negotiate their hold on the throne on condition that they sent their heir apparent Henry to be raised in the court of Castile. The demand was met with a flat refusal.\n\nMeanwhile, a French army was stationed in Bayonne (Labourd, in Guyenne) guarding against possible English or Castilian moves. Ferdinand still planned to invade Guyenne, home to both Albrets' possessions and French royal lands, or at least Bayonne, a strategic port for Navarre. However, time was running out for the Castilians in Lower Navarre, short of food, supplies and under adverse weather conditions. 1,000 discontented veteran troops in Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port mutinied. The Duke of Alba negotiated their removal to the less hostile area of Burgui and Salazar, breaking up the uprising.\n\nBy mid-October, John III had raised an army of 15,000 Navarrese, Gascons and landsknechts ready to counterattack. Three columns advanced into Gipuzkoa and the heartland of Navarre. The first laid siege to Hondarribia and Donostia, and occupied a number of small towns of the area. This was to divert the attention of any Castilian relief attempt for the besieged troops in Pamplona. By then, tired of Ferdinand II's unreliability, the English had decided to leave the theatre of war, after sacking a number of villages and towns (Errenteria). The second column, commanded by the Duke of Longueville, was made up of 8,000 Gascons, 1,000 Navarrese, 1,500 landsknechts, and corresponding artillery. It set off from Peyrehorade, engaged the Castilians in Ainhize, and defeated them on 19October.\n\nThe third column crossed the Pyrenees from Roncal (Erronkari) and reached Burgui. Fearful of having his communications with Pamplona cut, the Duke of Alba withdrew to the capital, leaving a well equipped garrison in Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port. The Navarrese column advanced from Salazar towards Pamplona. On hearing the news of the Navarrese army's approach, Estella-Lizarra and the fortress of Monjardin next to it revolted against the occupiers. On 24October 1512, the Duke of Alba reached Pamplona, followed by Navarrese loyalist forces, who laid siege to the capital.\n\nIn Estella-Lizarra, the rebels led by John Ramirez de Baquedano and Jaime Velaz de Medrano were soon opposed by the forces of Pedro de Beaumont, supported by the Castilians the Duke of Nájera and the Marquis of Comares. The Navarrese leaders made a last stand at the Monjardin fortress, but eventually a capitulation was signed. The investment of Pamplona lasted for a month, but the coming of winter and the arrival of reinforcements from Castile thwarted any prospects of a successful conclusion to the operation. The loyalists retreated and the Castilian troops made their way back across the Pyrenees to Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port and Lower Navarre, engaging in regular skirmishes with the disgruntled Beaumont party Lord of Luxe.\n\nOn 7December 1512, a detachment of the Navarrese army's decimated landsknechts who were escorting twelve artillery pieces when they encountered a patrol led by the governor of Gipuzkoa Juan de Silva at the Belate pass. The Gipuzkoan militia took on the landsknechts, who retreated in disarray, and were pursued and largely slaughtered. The skirmish was later exaggerated to a wholesale battle, with the cannons seized being added in 1513 to the official coat of arms of Gipuzkoa.\n\nAs of December 1512, the clashes were confined to Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port and its hinterland, still occupied by the Castilians. Between 13 and 23March 1513 the Parliament of Navarre, reduced to the Beaumount party representatives who had sided with the Castilian conquest, was called and accepted Ferdinand as their \"natural lord and king.\" Ferdinand in turn agreed to keep Navarrese institutions and identity. At the same time, the first Castilian viceroy, Diego Fernández de Córdoba, took an oath to respect Navarrese law, known as the \"fueros\".\n\nInitially the kingdom was attached to Ferdinand—and therefore to the Crown of Aragon—as an \"earned good\", falling back on the Papal bulls. Aragon was a Pyrenean realm with a similar confederate institutional make-up, as opposed to the authoritarian Castile. Castillian pressure resulted in the bequeathing of Navarre to Castilian Queen Isabella's daughter, Joanna of Castile, and annexing the Basque kingdom to Castile in 1515. The annexation was confirmed after Ferdinand took an oath to respect Navarre's laws and institutions, the \"pactum subjectionis\". On 11June 1515 the \"Cortes\" of Burgos met. It was not attended by any Navarrese representatives. Even the Navarrese count of Lerin Louis of Beaumont, Ferdinand II's accomplice up to that point, protested at this annexation to Castile, and was incarcerated.\n\nCastile and Navarre had different institutional and legal systems, and dissimilar social and ethnic make-ups. Once the Castilian and Aragonese military confirmed their occupation of all the strongholds, the ground was paved for a progressive institutional takeover marked by the centralizing drive of the Spanish-Castilian Crown. This was the source of frequent frictions and tensions. The diplomat and writer Niccolò Machiavelli anticipated a prompt and easy understanding by Ferdinand II with France \"on the only condition of keeping Navarre, giving up instead the Duchy of Milan for its vicinity to the Helvetians.\"\n\nFerdinand wished to present his military intervention as legally justified. He commissioned a report by the legal specialists Antonio de Nebrija and Juan López de Palacios Rubios in order to make the case for his actions with a wide range of claims over the Basque kingdom. During the following decades and centuries these reports were to become a reference point for debates on the morality of the Spanish conquest. Both scholars were acting as servants of their masters King Ferdinand II and the Duke of Alba when they accepted these propaganda assignments, as pointed out by the historian Alfredo Floristan. López de Palacios would later develop the doctrine legitimizing the Spanish conquest of the West Indies.\n\nIn late August 1512, once the conquest of the heartland of Navarre was completed, Ferdinand issued a statement defending his right to attack Navarre according to the \"iure belli\" or \"fair war\" doctrine passed by the Roman Church in 1511. With Pamplona on his hands and the royal family in Béarn, Ferdinand further justified his claim on the Crown of Navarre by \"de iure propio\", entitlement in his own right.\n\nAnother claim involved a so-called \"right of way\" across Navarre in order to achieve military goals in Guyenne, supported by Ferdinand's divine right as a king. Ferdinand also claimed that he was \"observing international treaties\" by invading Navarre in order to help his ally England. An additional claim was that the Navarrese lineage starting with Iñigo Arista (824–851) was an usurpation of the rightful Castilian claimant, the alleged heir to the Visigothic kingdom via the Kingdom of Asturias, the Visigoths being the holders of Roman Emperor Honorius' mandate for Hispania. Lastly, Ferdinand advanced a number of claims to the Navarrese throne related to his marriage to Germaine of Foix, and to his, father John II of Aragon.\n\nFerdinand was informed by spies of the progress of the negotiations between Navarrese diplomats and Louis XII at Blois. On the eve of the invasion, 17July 1512, Ferdinand had a forged draft copy of the Treaty of Blois, signed on 18July, circulated. This aimed to smear both parties. The Papal ruling \"Pastor Ille Caelestis\" issued on 21July, just three days after the start of the invasion, authorized Ferdinand to wage war on Church enemies and to claim their lands and subjects providing they lie outside Italy, which would apply to Louis XII's France and the \"heretic\" crown of Navarre. This provision was added at the instigation of Ferdinand in December 1511.\n\nOn 5June 1512, Ferdinand had addressed a letter to the Pope Julius II urging him to issue a bull excommunicating \"everyone in the kingdom of Navarre and the principality of Béarn\" and allocating him Navarre, or failing that, the right to take it over, and appealing to the Pope's own interests in Spain. \"You just need a scroll and ink\" he added). On 7June 1512 Ferdinand addressed another letter to his ambassador in Rome urging him to secure the bulls as soon as possible, for \"our army is up and the artillery ready\" to invade Navarre.\n\nHowever, the Navarrese crown was not cited explicitly in the \"Pastor Ille Caelestis\" bull. Echoing Ferdinand's claim in late August 2012, the \"Exigit Contumatium\" Papal bull was issued half a year later, on 18February 1513. Catherine and John III were labelled as schismatic and therefore unworthy holders of the royal title, excommunicating them and confiscating their properties. The members of the Parliament of Navarre attending the session held in Pamplona on 13–24March 1513 accepted Ferdinand II as king.\nDespite the papal support to his actions, Ferdinand—and his successors— was haunted by allegations of tyranny and usurpation, and these concerns were to leave an imprint in the status of Navarre after the invasion. Ferdinand arranged to present the invasion as a mere dynastic change, attempting to conceal the fact of the military takeover. Despite Navarre being considered an \"earned good\" for the free disposition of Ferdinand, the \"pactum subjections\" was applied—taking an oath to respect the Navarrese law and identity. Navarre was no Granada, which was considered not only a legitimate conquest by Roman Catholic standards but a \"reconquest\" of the Visigoth Kingdom. On the other side, Navarre was widely held to be an old Christian kingdom, with secular institutions and an entrenched identification of its population with the native social order. \"Prior tempore, potior iure\", or \"earlier in time, stronger in law\": the kingdom was stronger than the crown itself.\n\nBy 1516 Ferdinand was dead and his sixteen-year-old grandson by Isabella, Charles of Austria, had ascended to the throne of both Castile and Aragon. However, in 1516 he still lived in the Burgundian Netherlands. John III of Navarre saw an opportunity to reconquer Iberian Navarre. He raised an army in Sauveterre-de-Bearn made up of two columns, one commanded by himself and the other by Pedro, Marshal of Navarre. This small army aimed at reaching Sanguesa and Lumbier, and there inciting an uprising against the Castilians.\n\nThe first column led by John III failed to overcome the Castilian garrison occupying St-Jean-Pied-de-Port, while the second was no more successful. Pedro advanced towards Roncevaux on 12March 1516, but Cardinal Cisneros had been informed of the Navarrese intentions and had Colonel Villalba waiting him at Roncevaux. Pedro in turn decided to avoid Roncevaux by way of Salazar and Roncal, but weather and the little sympathy shown by the local population (except for Roncal) eroded the 600-strong column. The column was engaged in battle and defeated by Colonel Villalba near Isaba, in the valley of Roncal, and the survivors taken prisoner. Pedro was assassinated years later while in custody at Simancas, although it was presented as a suicide.\n\nAmong the captured were several lords, including Valentin of Jaso, cousin of Francis Xavier. The prisoners were taken to Atienza and held in chains with restricted communications. Extreme security measures were taken and no Navarrese were allowed into the town, with any resident hosting a Navarrese or not reporting their presence being subject to a 1,000 maravedi fine and two years imprisonment. The surviving 7 Navarrese Agramont lords were eventually released on acceptance of their submission, but they all joined the 1521 French-Navarrese expedition commanded by General Asparros.\n\nThe reconquest attempt failed, and on 14August 1516 the Treaty of Noyon was signed between Francis I of France and Charles V, in which Charles agreed in the context of a wider agreement to reconsider his rights over the Kingdom of Navarre and listen to Queen Catherine's envoys. However, Franco-Spanish tensions mounted again, Catherine died in early 1517 and the provisions on Navarre set out in the treaty were never enforced. Talks continued between Navarrese diplomats and Charles V to reach an agreement over a marriage between Charles' sister Eleonor and the new king of Navarre, Henry II. The Parliament of Navarre in Pamplona, attended only by Beaumont party members, demanded the reattachment to Higher Navarre of \"Coastal Navarre\", the Basque districts better known as Biscay until the early 19th century.\n\nThe Spanish cardinal Cisneros was acting as regent for the newly proclaimed emperor Charles. As such, in 1517 he decreed that all Navarrese castles be pulled down to prevent future resistance. Prominent Navarre figures who had stood up for the Navarrese monarchs were imprisoned in Atienza or forced into exile. The repression was aimed, in Cardinal Cisneros' words, at further \"subjugating and constraining [Navarre], so that no one in that kingdom dares or ventures to rebel\".\n\nMimicking the 1502 royal decision in Castile—the details of the decision are not well known—the Spanish imperial authorities decreed the forced conversion or the expulsion of the Navarrese Muslims living in and around Tudela, probably on 1May 1516. However, by 1516 many of them had emigrated following exactions imposed for decades. Muslims emigrated from Navarre until 1520, with many of them settling in Aragon, where they found temporary shelter until their 1526 expulsion.\nThe institutional framework of Navarre was preserved following the 1512 invasion. Once Ferdinand II of Aragon died in January, the Parliament of Navarre gathered in Pamplona, urging Charles V, aged 16, to attend a coronation ceremony in the town following tradition. The Parliament's envoys were met with the Emperor's utter indifference, if not contempt. He refused to attend any ceremony and stated \"let us say that I am happy and [the proclamation proposal] pleases me\". Eventually the Parliament met in 1517 without Charles V, who was represented by the Duke of Najera. He pronounced an array of promises, while Parliament kept submitting grievances and demands for damages to the Emperor, a total of sixty-seven. The second viceroy of Navarre, Fadrique de Acuña, was deposed in 1515; probably for passing on the grievances. Contradictions in the documents relating to the Emperor's purported oath pledge in 1516 point to a contemporary manipulation of the records.\n\nIn 1520 and 1521, Castile was distracted by the Revolt of the Comuneros. The Crown of Aragon was also suffering economic difficulties as a consequence of the Revolt of the Brotherhoods. As a result, Spain was seen as a target of opportunity by the King Francis I of France. Meanwhile, the young King Henry II of Navarre, based in Béarn, saw a way to reconquer Navarre. Taking advantage of the synergies with France, Henry began raising a 12,000-strong army, mainly Gascons and Navarrese exiles. This Franco-Navarrese army was commanded by General Asparros (or Esparre). It consisted of 12,000 infantry, 800 mounted knights, and 29 pieces of artillery.\n\nThe Castilian Viceroy of Navarre, Antonio Manrique de Lara, 2nd Duke of Nájera, was caught off-guard. The Duke was responsible for guarding the Navarrese lands conquered in 1512, but he had moved the bulk of his troops away from Navarre to suppress the Revolt of the Comuneros in his home territory of Castile. Rumors of a \"French\" invasion had been widespread, with former comunero noble Pedro Girón warning of the impending invasion in April 1521.\n\nAngry at the Castilian takeover of the ecclesiastic, administrative and judicial institutions in Navarre, the Navarrese rose up in support of Henry II on hearing the news of Henry II's expedition. Volunteer bands were created in many places to expel the Castilians. As the Franco-Navarrese army approached Pamplona, the citizens revolted and besieged the Castilian military governor, Ignatius of Loyola, in his newly built castle. The garrison surrendered after a few days of resistance in late May 1521 in the Battle of Pampeluna (Pamplona). In less than three weeks, all of Navarre was reconquered.\n\nStill, not all was settled. The absence of Henry II was disquieting to the population. Additionally, the troops led by General Asparros indulged in looting on arrival at Viana, leaving many angry and disappointed with an expedition that was meant to liberate them. The Franco-Navarrese army then moved out of friendly territory and into Castile, crossing the Ebro and besieging the town of Logroño, where the count of Lerin was stationed with a 4,000-strong force.\n\nUnfortunately for the King of Navarre and the French, the Revolt of the Comuneros had been crushed at the Battle of Villalar in April. Not only was the Castilian government able to send its soldiers back to Navarre, but a large number of Castilian nobles who had supported the comuneros or vacillated between sides were now presented with an opportunity to prove their loyalty to Castile. Many formerly rebel-held towns sent soldiers to Navarre as well. Backed by a suddenly reunified Castile, an army of 30,000 men approached Navarre. On June 11, Asparros abandoned his siege of Logroño and retreated back to Tiebas, in Navarre. Asparros desperately requested reinforcements from Béarn, but Henry II refused the request, presumably not wanting to risk them in a battle that was likely already lost.\n\nThe Franco-Navarrese were completely defeated at the Battle of Esquiroz (Noáin) near Pamplona, on 30June 1521. The French-Navarrese force did not have sufficient artillery to defend themselves, and were outnumbered by more than two-to-one. French and Navarrese losses numbered more than 6,000 dead, and General Asparros was captured, and released in return for a ransom of 10,500 ducats, and the surrender of Pamplona. The Castilian fatalities numbered between 50 and 300. The victory was followed by an occupation in which the Navarrese were subject to abuse, pillaging, marginalization and exile. This situation bred despair among many Navarrese, with many lords opting to switch sides to the victorious Castilians. The Castilians did not relent, and continued to send reinforcements to the area as Charles V and France went to war across Europe.\n\nWith the defeat at Noain still fresh in their memories, Kings Henry II of Navarre and Francis I of France allied again to strike back. This time on the northern fringes of Navarre—probably expecting the Spanish to be worn out militarily and financially by their relentless war activity. In late September 1521, the Franco-Navarrese divided in two columns and advanced towards the Bidasoa. The first column, made up of Agramont-party Navarrese, Normans and Gascons, was based in Labourd (in French royal territory), while the second, formed by German, Gascon and Norman infantry, set off from Saint-Jean-Pied-de-Port—then in the hands of troops loyal to Henry II. A total of 27,000 combatants under the command of Guillaume Gouffier, seigneur de Bonnivet. Most of the troops were raised in the Norman and Pyrénées-based possessions of the Foix-Albret. After taking over Roncal, the second column headed west along the Pyrénées range, and captured Roncevaux.\n\nThe Franco-Navarrese force approached the fortress of Amaiur (Baztan, Navarre), laying siege to the fortress the Castilians had just reinforced. On 3October 1521 the Castilians capitulated in exchange for free passage to Castile.The troops of Guillaume Gouffier then headed to Labourd and on to Behobia, capturing the fortress of Urantzu and moving on to invest the coastal stronghold of Hondarribia (Fuenterrabía, Fontarabie) at the tip of Gipuzkoa in the Basque Country. This stronghold was captured on 12October 1521 (other sources state 6October). The Franco-Navarrese held sway over an area extending from Belate to the mouth of the Bidasoa river.\n\nIn May 1522, with Charles V in Pamplona, the Spanish forces started to gather the funds and troops necessary to respond. In July 1522, with Navarrese Amaiur about to fall, the Emperor disembarked in Santander with 4,000 landsknechts. Many Basques from Biscay proper, Gipuzkoa, Álava, and even Navarre joined Charles V's forces, as did a number of Aragonese. Ahead of the Castilian expedition to the Bidasoa, a combination of Gipuzkoan militias supported by 1,000 landsknecht engaged the Franco-Navarrese at the fortress of Urantzu in the celebrated Battle of San Marcial. The pro-Imperial forces took the position on 30June 1522.\n\nWhile Charles V made military arrangements, he also issued a decree pardoning many of the banished and exiled Agramont party members loyal to Henry II. Charles V seems to have followed Ferdinand II's tactics, the partial pardon was intertwined with repression, such as a new order to pull down remaining Agramont and other Navarrese fortresses, besides putting Agramont leaders loyal to King Henry II to trial on lèse-majesté charges.\n\nOn 4July 1522, a 7,000-strong Castilian expedition left from Pamplona, and by 15July Amaiur was invested. The fortress was defended by 200 Navarrese knights loyal commanded by Jaime Velaz de Medrano, the 1512 rebel of Estella-Lizarra. However, no relief force arrived and it ultimately fell to the Count of Miranda on 19July 1522. A commemorative monolith now stands on the site of the fortress. After the capitulation of Amaiur, orders were issued by the Venetian-born Castilian bishop of Pamplona, John de Rena, to level the fortress and pull down a number houses owned by Agramont sympathisers, as well as setting fire to the Abbey of Urdazubi.\n\nThe 39 surviving Navarrese lords of Amaiur were taken to Pamplona and held captive in the Saint Nicolas fortress. Besides Jaime Velez de Medrano, they included Miguel de Jaso, lord of Xavier, and Francis Xavier's oldest brother. They were imprisoned in Pamplona, and Jaime and his son were poisoned. Miguel managed to escape dressed in woman garments; he joined his brother John de Jaso and the 3,000 strong garrison of Hondarribia—1,000 Navarrese and 2,000 French. The garrison included Claude of Lorraine as one of its commanders.\n\nAt the peak of Francis' and Henry II's campaign, the Navarrese king made a symbolic gesture: he called the Parliament of Navarre in Saint-Palais (Donapaleu), took an oath to respect the Navarrese laws (\"fueros\"), and reorganized the Navarrese administration according to actual territorial control. Charles V felt his authority in Navarre was being defied, and designed a plan to subdue Henry II and Francis, and finally suppress Navarrese resistance. His ambitious plan aimed at invading Lower Navarre, Toulouse, Bayonne, and Hondarribia after Amaiur was captured.\n\nThe Viceroy of Aragon advanced to Oloron in Béarn and laid siege to the town, while the army of the Prince of Orange Philibert of Chalon failed to take Bayonne. Frustrated at his failure, on his withdrawal south Philibert devastated Ustaritz, and sacked Biarritz and Saint-Jean-de-Luz (Donibane Lohizune). Other towns and villages inland straddling the Navarre-Béarn border were also devastated. Eventually, the Imperial forces focused all their strength on capturing Hondarribia. On 15December 1523, Charles V issued a new pardon, this time including most of the Navarrese Agramont leaders, except for 152 prominent figures, some of them still fighting in Hondarribia.\n\nThe Battle of Fuenterrabía (Hondarribia) would last until April 1524. On 29February 1524, the Navarrese forces commanded by Pedro de Navarra, son of the assassinated Navarrese marshall, capitulated to Iñigo Fernandez de Velasco, his own uncle. They were promised a restitution of their properties, but only after vowing loyalty to Charles V. Ultimately, some of the defenders of the position were given positions in Charles V court—but far from Navarre—and their properties were partially or fully restored, but not without problems. With this surrender, Navarrese resistance to the Spanish-Castilian occupation was dealt its final blow.\n\nLocalized military clashes were now confined to the southern fringes of Lower Navarre (Nafarroa Beherea in Basque, see map). In 1525, a Spanish attack captured St-Jean-Pied-de-Port again, it was held by the Spanish for almost two years, but in 1527 the lord of Luxe (Lukuze) and Esteban de Albret, lord of Miossens, recaptured the position. Except for a Spanish outpost in Luzaide/Valcarlos the region was abandoned in 1528 due to Charles V's loss of interest and the difficulties of defending it. France's loss of the wider war, with King Francis' and Henry II's capture at the Battle of Pavia in February 1525, sealed the division of Navarre. While Henry II managed to escape from prison, the Treaty of Madrid on 1January 1526 and the Treaty of Cambray in 1529 confirmed Spanish control over the Iberian part of Navarre—Francis I committed to denying assistance to Henry II.\n\nThe successive pardons decreed by Charles V were intended to help integrate Navarre into Habsburg Spain. A series of pardons to clergy who had sided with the legitimate monarchs were also decreed, with the first just after the 1512 invasion. However, distrust to the loyalty of the Navarrese was maintained throughout the 16th century while Protestant and independent Navarre existed to the north of the Pyrénées, prior to its absorption into France in 1620. Holdings confiscated from subjects loyal to Henry II began to be returned, but the procedures were fraught with problems, were accompanied by judicial persecution, and were accompanied by exemplary sentences for Agramont party leaders.\n\nWhile no burning of books is attested, as happened during the follow-up to the conquest of Granada in Oran (on Cardinal Cisneros' orders), large numbers of books, records and archives are missing; these relate to jurisprudence, accountancy, appointments, Parliament and Royal Council sessions, as well as property titles of the period prior to the 1512 invasion from the mid 15th century to early 16th century, with records resuming in 1512. Files relating to the previous period appear to have been seized by the Spanish monarchy or their newly appointed authorities. The vast majority of the population was Basque-speaking and was mostly illiterate, relying on a bilingual notary who could write in Romance (a Navarrese variant merging with Castilian) or Latin, but a requirement was imposed to re-register property titles before Castilian officials. Failing registration, ownership of the holding was invalidated and was subject to confiscation in favour the occupier.\n\nNavarre remained on a state of military occupation at until at least 1530. All positions in the kingdom's government were taken over by Castilian appointees, namely bishops, viceroys, and administrative personnel of the Royal Tribunals, the Royal Council, Accounts Chamber (\"Comptos\"), and the curia. Pamplona, and other Navarrese towns were garrisoned by Castilian or Castilian-controlled troops. Navarrese ecclesiastics were prevented from rising to the position of abbot or above. Navarrese showing a submissive demeanour were occasionally kept or appointed as officials.\n\nSince the Spanish conquest, each time a bishop vacancy occurred, either the cathedral chapter of Pamplona, or later the \"Diputacion\". requested a Navarrese bishop, but no avail. For example, in 1539 an extensive report insisted on choosing a native ecclesiastic for the position on a number of accounts, one of them being that he could speak Basque and would be obeyed by his subjects, \"for his native origin and because the Basque people, the main part of the kingdom, love like no other nation their own nature and language.\" The report was turned down without explanation, and a Castilian bishop appointed. Historian of the church Goñi Gaztanbide (\"Historia de los Obispos de Pamplona\", 1985) is adamant in his criticism, denouncing the \"Castilian assimilation of Navarrese Church at all levels,\" to the point of considering that it was subjected to a colonial regime.\n\nThe Navarrese continued turning their eyes to their Protestant brethren to the north, in Henry II's independent Navarre with Béarn. Navarre, like Gipuzkoa, became a hotspot of penetration for Protestant ideas as early as 1521, when the Inquisition seized and set fire to a number of books. A ban was imposed on reading them, or even writing or preaching against Protestant doctrines, in order to avoid bringing attention to their claims.\n\nIn 1525, on the heat of Henry II's two failed reconquest campaigns, the first witchcraft allegations were instigated by the graduate Balanza, a member of the Royal Council and a commissioner of inquiries on witchcraft for Navarre. He sent letters to the Castilian bishop of Pamplona, John de Rena, (an able military administrator, but not ordained for religious functions). Balanza asserted that there existed \"so much evil\" in a number of southern Pyrenean valleys—starting from Salazar and Roncal, to Burguete (Auritz), Baztan, Bortziriak, Malerreka (to Pamplona)—located in the rear of the St-Jean-Pied-de-Port front in Lower Navarre, and an active theatre of war just a few years or months before, \"it should not be only me who is aware of it\" . After his inquiry and the resultant trials, held between January and August 1525, 30–40 people, mostly women, were condemned and burnt alive by the occupation authorities; other sources point to 200. A further 43 were stripped of their property.\n\nOn 15August 1532, Ana of Albret, the sister of Henry II, died. She expressed in her will the wish to be buried with her parents Catherine I and John III in Pamplona, but her wish was not honoured. She also bequeathed her dominion as Princess of Viana to her brother King Henry II. Doubts over the occupation of Navarre perturbed Charles V until death. He attempted to find a compromise suiting both his ambitions and the monarchs of Navarre. To that end, he tried to marry his son and successor Philip II of Spain to the heir-apparent of Navarre, Jeanne d'Albret, in 1539, highlighting her high educational background and intelligence. These attempts ultimately failed, but Charles V left Philip II instructions on his will to give Navarre back, \"following his conscience\". That never happened.\n\n"}
{"id": "54468810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54468810", "title": "Stolpersteine in Neratovice", "text": "Stolpersteine in Neratovice\n\nStolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They memorialize the fate of the victims of Nazi Germany being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide. The Stolpersteine in Neratovice, a town in the Central Bohemian Region () of the present-day Czech Republic (formerly Czechoslovakia), were collocated in 2010.\n\nThe Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the \"Česká unie židovské mládeže\" (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague. Generally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: \"Kameny zmizelých\", stones of the disappeareds.\n\nThe Stolpersteine in Neratovice were all collocated in 2010:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54444079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54444079", "title": "Tel Erani", "text": "Tel Erani\n\nTel Erani (Hebrew) or Tell esh-Sheikh Ahmed el-ʿAreini (Arabic) is a multi-period archaeological site on the outskirts of Kiryat Gat in the Southern District of Israel. The tell was first occupied in the Chalcolithic period, but its most notable remains are from the Bronze Age and Iron Age, when it was the site of a substantial Philistine city with links to Egypt. It has been identified with the biblical cities of Libnah, Gath, \"Mmst\", Eglon and Makkedah, but none of these identifications are certain. The city was destroyed in the 6th century BCE, possibly by the Babylonians. In the Persian period, it was the site of a temple. There are also signs of settlement in the Hellenistic, Byzantine, and Mamluk periods. The Palestinian village of Iraq al-Manshiyya was located at the foot of the tell until it was depopulated in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\nTel Erani was first documented by Claude Reignier Conder and Herbert Kitchener in their 1872–1877 survey for the Palestine Exploration Fund. They described the contemporary village of Iraq al-Manshiyya and remarked that the site was \"evidently ancient and important, and seems possibly to represent the ancient Libnah.\" The identification of Tel Erani with the biblical city of Libnah was based on the chalk in the hills nearby – the name of the city meaning 'the white' in ancient Hebrew. In 1921, William F. Albright argued that the site was a poor fit with Libnah, and instead proposed it was the major Philistine city of Gath. He placed Libnah at Tell es-Safi, which most scholars of the time identified with Gath. When the Palestinian population was forced out of the area in the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, Albright's theory was the basis for naming the new Israeli settlements of Kiryat Gat and Kibbutz Gat.\n\nIn the late 1950s, Shmuel Yeivin opened excavations at the site (then known as Tel Gat) to confirm Albright's identification. Although he did find Iron Age material, the pottery was not consistent with a Philistine city. Albright's theory was therefore rejected. Instead, Yeivin discovered that the main phase of occupation of the site was earlier, in the Early Bronze Age. He also found what was then the earliest evidence of contact between Egypt and Canaan: a potsherd bearing the \"serekh\" of the pharaoh Narmer.\n\n"}
{"id": "22788275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22788275", "title": "Waterfront Historic Area League", "text": "Waterfront Historic Area League\n\nThe Waterfront Historic Area LeaguE, also known as WHALE, is a non-profit historic preservation organization located in New Bedford, Massachusetts. Its mission is: \"to promote the value and reuse of greater New Bedford's historic structures through preservation, education and advocacy\". The organization often promotes its cause with the words of one of its founders, Sarah Delano (President of WHALE, 1966-1982). Delano said, \"if you bulldoze your heritage, you become just anywhere\".\n\nThe organization was founded by a group of concerned citizens in 1962, at a time when urban renewal threatened much of the city's history and architectural heritage. The original focus was on the city's waterfront district, a dense area of whaling era buildings suffering from severe neglect and disrepair. WHALE took on the preservation/restoration of as many as 20 buildings within the district's boundaries over the years. This became the organization's first neighborhood revitalization project and lead to the establishment of Bedford Landing Waterfront National Register Historic District. With WHALE's leadership, the district would later be designated, New Bedford Whaling National Historical Park. Over time, WHALE expanded to properties beyond this district, taking on preservation projects throughout the city. WHALE has now completed over 45 preservation and restoration projects in the greater New Bedford area between 1962 and 2009.\n\n1960's\nComplete Inventory of National Landmark Historic District\nBenjamin Rodman House\nReynolds Building\n\n1970's\nAbijah Hathaway House\nBedford Landing-Waterfront Historic District\nBourne Warehouse Trust\nCaleb Spooner House\nEggers Building\nHaile Luther House\nHenry Beetle House\nMacComber-Sylvia Building\nMcCullough Warehouse\nSeth Russell House\nSundial Building\nRodman Candleworks\nWilliam Tallman Russell House\nWilliam Tallman Warehouse\n\n1980's\nEdward Coffin Jones Carriage House\nHatch Properties\nRotch-Jones-Duff House and Garden Museum\nSchooner Ernestina\nZeiterion Theater\n\n1990's\nBenjamin Almy House\nConnections Project\nCorson Block\nCustom House Square\nGrinnell Congregate Home\nHarborvisions Charrette\nNathan and Polly Johnson House\nNew Bedford Visitor Center\nNew Bedford Whaling National Historical Park\nPaul Revere Sign\nRe-Design of Route 18\n\nToday, WHALE is run by an elected board of directors and hired staff. WHALE staff positions consist of an Executive Director and an Office and Events Manager along with volunteers and occasional consultants. WHALE works closely with other organizations in the area, including the City of New Bedford, New Bedford Historical Commission, the Massachusetts Historical Commission (MHC), the National Park Service and more. Currently, WHALE is working on its Neighborhood Restoration Program, which focuses on the revitalization of the Washington Square Gateway Neighborhood, located in the New Bedford's south end.\n\n"}
{"id": "251235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251235", "title": "William Archer Butler", "text": "William Archer Butler\n\nWilliam Archer Butler (c. 1814–1848) was an Irish historian of philosophy.\n\nHe was born at Annerville, near Clonmel in Ireland. His father was a Protestant, his mother a Roman Catholic, and he was brought up as a Catholic. As a boy he was imaginative and poetical, and some of his early verses were remarkable. While yet at Clonmel school he became a Protestant. Later he entered Trinity College, Dublin, where he had a brilliant career. He specially devoted himself to literature and metaphysics, and was noted for the beauty of his style. In 1834 he gained the ethical moderatorship, newly instituted by Provost Lloyd, and continued in residence at college. In 1837 he decided to enter the Church, and in the same year he was elected to the professorship of moral philosophy, specially founded for him through Lloyd's exertions.\n\nAbout the same time he was presented to the prebend of Clondahorky, Donegal, and resided there when not called by his professorial duties to Dublin. In 1842 he was promoted to the rectory of Raymochy. He died on 5 July 1848.\n\nHis \"Sermons\" (2 vols., 1849) were brilliant and forceful. The Lectures on the \"History of Ancient Philosophy\", edited by W. Hepworth Thompson (2 vols., 5856; 2nd ed., 1 vol. 1875) were among the few British works on the history of philosophy. These works include introductory lectures, the early Greek thinkers, and lectures on Plato.\n\nAmong his other writings were papers in the \"Dublin University Magazine\" (1834-1837); and \"Letters on Development\" (in the \"Irish Ecclesiastical Journal\", 1845), a reply to Newman's famous \"Essay on the Development of Christian Doctrine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "188885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188885", "title": "William Whiston", "text": "William Whiston\n\nWilliam Whiston (9 December 1667 – 22 August 1752) was an English theologian, historian, and mathematician, a leading figure in the popularisation of the ideas of Isaac Newton. He is now probably best known for helping to instigate the Longitude Act in 1714 (and his attempts to win the rewards that it promised) and his important translations of the \"Antiquities of the Jews\" and other works by Josephus (which are still in print). He was a prominent exponent of Arianism and wrote \"A New Theory of the Earth\".\n\nWhiston succeeded his mentor Newton as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge. In 1710 he lost the professorship and was expelled from the university as a result of his unorthodox religious views. Because Whiston recognized the Bible as a book of spiritual truth, he rejected the notion of eternal torment in hellfire. He viewed it as absurd and cruel, as well as an insult to God. What especially pitted him against church authorities, was he viewed the Trinity as a lie after extensive research convinced him the origin of the Trinity teaching to be pagan.\n\nWhiston was born to Josiah Whiston and Katherine Rosse at Norton-juxta-Twycross, in Leicestershire, where his father was rector. He was educated privately, for his health, and so that he could act as amanuensis to his blind father. He studied at Queen Elizabeth Grammar School, Tamworth. After his father's death, he entered Clare College, Cambridge as a sizar on 30 June 1686. He applied himself to mathematical study, was awarded the degree of Bachelor of Arts (BA) (1690), and AM (1693), and was elected Fellow in 1691 and probationary senior Fellow in 1693.\n\nWilliam Lloyd ordained Whiston at Lichfield in 1693. In 1694, claiming ill health, he resigned his tutorship at Clare to Richard Laughton, chaplain to John Moore, the bishop of Norwich, and swapped positions with him. He now divided his time between Norwich, Cambridge and London. In 1698 Moore gave him the living of Lowestoft where he became rector. In 1699 he resigned his Fellowship of Clare College and left to marry.\n\nIn 1701 Whiston resigned his living to become Isaac Newton's substitute, giving the Lucasian lectures at Cambridge. He succeeded Newton as Lucasian professor in 1702. There followed a period of joint research with Roger Cotes, appointed with Whiston's patronage to the Plumian professorship in 1706. Students at the Cotes–Whiston experimental philosophy course included Stephen Hales, William Stukeley, and Joseph Wasse.\n\nIn 1707 Whiston was Boyle lecturer; this lecture series was at the period a significant opportunity for Newton's followers, including Richard Bentley and Samuel Clarke, to express their views, especially in opposition to the rise of deism. The \"Newtonian\" line came to include, with Bentley, Clarke and Whiston in particular, a defence of natural law by returning to the definition of Augustine of Hippo of a miracle (a cause of human wonderment), rather than the prevailing concept of a divine intervention against nature, which went back to Anselm. This move was intended to undermine arguments of deists and sceptics. The Boyle lectures dwelt on the connections between biblical prophecies, dramatic physical events such as floods and eclipses, and their explanations in terms of science. On the other hand, Whiston was alive to possible connections of prophecy with current affairs: the War of the Spanish Succession, and later the Jacobite rebellions.\n\nWhiston supported a qualified biblical literalism: the literal meaning should be the default, unless there was a good reason to think otherwise. This view again went back to Augustine. Newton's attitude to the cosmogony of Thomas Burnet reflected on the language of the Genesis creation narrative; as did Whiston's alternative cosmogony. Moses as author of \"Genesis\" was not necessarily writing as a natural philosopher, nor as a law-giver, but for a particular audience. The new cosmogonies of Burnet, Whiston and John Woodward were all criticised for their disregard of the biblical account, by John Arbuthnot, John Edwards and William Nicolson in particular.\n\nThe title for Whiston's Boyle lectures was \"The Accomplishment of Scripture Prophecies\". Rejecting typological interpretation of biblical prophecy, he argued that the meaning of a prophecy must be unique. His views were later challenged by Anthony Collins. There was a more immediate attack by Nicholas Clagett in 1710. One reason prophecy was topical was the Camisard movement that saw French exiles (\"French prophets\") in England. Whiston had started writing on the millenarianism that was integral to the Newtonian theology, and wanted to distance his views from theirs, and in particular from those of John Lacy. Meeting the French prophets in 1713, Whiston developed the view that the charismatic gift of revelation could be demonic possession.\n\nIt is no longer assumed that Whiston's \"Memoirs\" are completely trustworthy on the matter of his personal relations with Newton. One view is that the relationship was never very close, Bentley being more involved in Whiston's appointment to the Lucasian chair; and that it deteriorated as soon as Whiston began to write on prophecy, publishing \"Essay on the Revelation of St John\" (1706). This work proclaimed the millennium for the year 1716.\n\nWhiston's 1707 edition of Newton's \"Arithmetica Universalis\" did nothing to improve matters. Newton himself was heavily if covertly involved in the 1722 edition, nominally due to John Machin, making many changes.\n\nIn 1708–9 Whiston was engaging Thomas Tenison and John Sharp as archbishops in debates on the Trinity. There is evidence from Hopton Haynes that Newton reacted by pulling back from publication on the issue; his antitrinitarian views, from the 1690s, were finally published in 1754 as \"An Historical Account of Two Notable Corruptions of Scripture\".\n\nWhiston was never a Fellow of the Royal Society. In conversation with Edmond Halley he blamed his reputation as a \"heretick\". Also, though, he claimed Newton had disliked having an independent-minded disciple; and was unnaturally cautious and suspicious by nature.\n\nWhiston's route to rejection of the Nicene Creed, the historical orthodox position against Arianism, began early in his tenure of the Lucasian chair as he followed hints from Samuel Clarke. He read also in Louis Ellies Dupin, and the \"Explication of Gospel Theism\" (1706) of Richard Brocklesby. His study of the \"Apostolic Constitutions\" then convinced him that Arianism was the creed of the early church.\n\nThe general election of 1710 brought the Tories solid political power for a number of years, up to the Hanoverian succession of 1714. Their distrust of theological innovation had a direct impact on Whiston, as well as others of similar views. His heterodoxy was notorious. In 1710 he was deprived of his professorship and expelled from the university.\n\nThe matter was not allowed to rest there: Whiston tried to get a hearing before Convocation. He did have defenders even in the high church ranks, such as George Smalridge. For political reasons, this development would have been divisive at the time. Queen Anne made a point of twice \"losing\" the papers in the case. After her death in 1714 the intended hearing was allowed to drop. The party passions of these years found an echo in Henry Sacheverell's attempt to exclude Whiston from his church of St Andrew's, Holborn, taking place in 1719.\n\nWhiston founded a society for promoting primitive Christianity, lecturing in support of his theories in halls and coffee-houses at London, Bath, and Tunbridge Wells. Those he involved included Thomas Chubb, Thomas Emlyn, John Gale, Benjamin Hoadley, Arthur Onslow, and Thomas Rundle. There were meetings at Whiston's house from 1715 to 1717; Hoadley avoided coming, as did Samuel Clarke, though invited. A meeting with Clarke, Hoadley, John Craig and Gilbert Burnet the younger had left these leading latitudinarians unconvinced about Whiston's reliance on the \"Apostolical Constitutions\".\n\nFranz Wokenius wrote a 1728 Latin work on Whiston's view of primitive Christianity. His challenge to the teachings of Athanasius meant that Whiston was commonly considered heretical on many points. On the other hand, he was a firm believer in supernatural aspects of Christianity. He defended prophecy and miracle. He supported anointing the sick and touching for the king's evil. His dislike of rationalism in religion also made him one of the numerous opponents of Hoadley's \"Plain Account of the Nature and End of the Sacrament\". He was fervent in his views of ecclesiastical government and discipline, derived from the \"Apostolical Constitutions\".\n\nAbout 1747 Whiston finally left the Anglican communion for the Baptists. He quitted the church literally as well as figuratively, as the clergyman began to read the Athanasian Creed.\n\nWhiston began lecturing on natural philosophy in London. He gave regular courses at coffee houses, particularly Button's, and also at the Censorium, a set of riverside meeting rooms in London run by Richard Steele. At Button's, he gave courses of demonstration lectures on astronomical and physical phenomena, and Francis Hauksbee the younger worked with him on experimental demonstrations. His passing remarks on religious topics were sometimes objected to, for example by Henry Newman writing to Steele.\nHis lectures were often accompanied by publications. In 1712, he published, with John Senex, a chart of the solar system showing numerous paths of comets. In 1715, he lectured on the total solar eclipse of 3 May 1715 (which fell in April Old Style in England); Whiston lectured on it at the time, in Covent Garden, and later, as a natural event and as a portent.\n\nBy 1715 Whiston had also become adept at newspaper advertising. He frequently lectured to the Royal Society.\n\nIn 1714, he was instrumental in the passing of the Longitude Act, which established the Board of Longitude. In collaboration with Humphrey Ditton he published \"A New Method for Discovering the Longitude, both at Sea and Land\", which was widely referenced and discussed. For the next forty years he continued to propose a range of methods to solve the longitude reward, which earned him widespread ridicule, particularly from the group of writers known as the Scriblerians. In one proposal for using magnetic dip to find longitude he produced one of the first isoclinic maps of southern England in 1719 and 1721. In 1734, he proposed using the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites.\n\nWhiston's \"A New Theory of the Earth from its Original to the Consummation of All Things\" (1696) was an articulation of creationism and flood geology. It held that the global flood of Noah had been caused by a comet. The work obtained the praise of John Locke, who classed the author among those who, if not adding much to our knowledge, \"At least bring some new things to our thoughts.\" He was an early advocate, along with Edmond Halley, of the periodicity of comets; he also held that comets were responsible for past catastrophes in Earth's history. In 1736, he caused widespread anxiety among London's citizens when he predicted the world would end on 16 October that year because a comet would hit the earth. William Wake as Archbishop of Canterbury officially denied this prediction to calm the public.\n\nThere was no consensus within the Newtonians as to how far mechanical causes could be held responsible for key events of sacred history: John Keill was at the opposite to extreme to Whiston in minimising such causes. As a natural philosopher, Whiston's speculations respected no boundary with his theological views. He saw the creation of man as an intervention in the natural order. He picked up on Arthur Ashley Sykes's advice to Samuel Clarke to omit an eclipse and earthquake mentioned by Phlegon of Tralles from future editions of Clarke's Boyle lectures, these events being possibly synchronous with Christ's crucifixion. Whiston published \"The Testimony of Phlegon Vindicated\" in 1732.\n\nThe series of Moyer Lectures often made Whiston's unorthodox views a particular target.\n\nWhiston held that \"Song of Solomon\" was apocryphal and that the \"Book of Baruch\" was not. He modified the biblical Ussher chronology, setting the Creation at 4010 BCE. He challenged Newton's system of \"The Chronology of Ancient Kingdoms Amended\" (1728). Westfall absolves Whiston of the charge that he pushed for the posthumous publication of the \"Chronology\" just to attack it, commenting that the heirs were in any case looking to publish manuscripts of Newton, who died in 1727.\n\nWhiston's advocacy of clerical monogamy is referenced in \"The Vicar of Wakefield\". His last \"famous discovery, or rather revival of Dr Giles Fletcher, the Elder's,\" which he mentions in his autobiography, was the identification of the Tatars with the lost tribes of Israel.\n\nWhiston married Ruth, daughter of George Antrobus, his headmaster at Tamworth school. He had a happy family life and died in Lyndon Hall, Rutland, at the home of his son-in-law, Samuel Barker, on 22 August 1752. He was survived by his children Sarah, William, George, and John.\n\nWhiston's later life was spent in continual controversy: theological, mathematical, chronological, and miscellaneous. He vindicated his estimate of the \"Apostolical Constitutions\" and the Arian views he had derived from them in his \"Primitive Christianity Revived\" (5 vols., 1711–1712). In 1713 he produced a reformed liturgy. His \"Life of Samuel Clarke\" appeared in 1730.\n\nHis translation of the works of Josephus (1737), with notes and dissertations, was often reprinted. In 1745 he published his \"Primitive New Testament\" (on the basis of Codex Bezae and Codex Claromontanus).\n\nWhiston left memoirs (3 vols., 1749–1750). These do not contain the account of the proceedings taken against him at Cambridge for his antitrinitarianism, which was published separately at the time.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33571833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33571833", "title": "Zeriuani", "text": "Zeriuani\n\nThe Zeriuani or Zeruiani was a Slavic tribe mentioned by the 9th-century Bavarian Geographer (). It states that the Zeruiani \"which is so great a realm that from it, as their tradition relates, all the tribes of the Slavs are sprung and trace their origin\". Scholarship connect it to Procopius' \"Sporoi\", the Serbs, and Severians.\n\nWhile earlier assumed by scholars to have been connected to early Serbs (or White Serbs), modern Polish scholars believe it is a corrupted form of the name of the Severians. It is claimed that the Serb ethnonym was never written with the Slavic suffix \"-jane\" (\"-eani\"), while the tribal name of the Severians was written in both collective \"Sever\" and plural \"Severjane\" form, etymologically implying Severian tribes. Gerard Labuda considered those tribes arrived from the Lesser Poland and western Ukraine, while Ryszard Kiersnowski assumed the Zeriuani were a relic of a large group which lived along the river Oder, but as there was no recorded tribe with such a name in those parts it also indicates the Ruthenian and Balkan Severians.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
