{"id": "5250634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5250634", "title": "2004 unrest in Kosovo", "text": "2004 unrest in Kosovo\n\nThe worst ethnic violence in Kosovo since the end of the 1999 conflict erupted in the partitioned town of Mitrovica, leaving hundreds wounded and at least 14 people dead. UN peacekeepers and Nato troops scrambled to contain a raging gun battle between Serbs and ethnic Albanians. In Serbia the events were also called the March Pogrom.\n\nInternational courts in Pristina have prosecuted several people who attacked several Serbian Orthodox churches, handing down jail sentences ranging from 21 months to 16 years.\n\nThe Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) was an ethnic-Albanian paramilitary organisation which had as its founding goal unification of Albanian inhabited lands in the Balkans, stressing Albanian culture, ethnicity and nation. Conflict escalated from 1997 onward due to the Yugoslavian army retaliating with a crackdown in the region resulting in violence and population displacements. The bloodshed, ethnic cleansing of thousands of Albanians driving them into neighbouring countries and the potential of it to destabilize the region provoked intervention by international organizations and agencies, such as the United Nations, NATO and INGOs. Some people from non-Albanian communities such as the Serbs and Romani fled Kosovo fearing revenge attacks by armed people and returning refugees while others were pressured by the KLA and armed gangs to leave. Post conflict Kosovo was placed under an international United Nations framework with the \"UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo\" (UNMIK) overseeing administrative affairs and the \"UN Kosovo Force\" (KFOR) dealing with defence. Within post-conflict Kosovo Albanian society, calls for retaliation for previous violence done by Serb forces during the war circulated through public culture. In 2004, prolonged negotiations over Kosovo's future status, sociopolitical problems and nationalist sentiments resulted in the Kosovo unrest.\n\nOn 15 March 2004 an 18-year-old Serb, Jovica Ivić, was murdered in a drive-by shooting in the village of Čaglavica in the central region of Kosovo.\n\nOn 16 March, three KLA war veterans associations organized widespread demonstrations in ethnic Albanian cities and towns, protesting the arrests of former KLA leaders on war crime charges, including the February arrests of four commanders. The pro-KLA, anti-UNMIK protests, with 18,000 protesters, lay the basis for the following demonstrations sparked by the sensational reports of drowning of three Albanian children.\n\nOn 16 March, three Albanian children drowned in the Ibar River in the village of Čabar, near the Serb community of Zubin Potok. A fourth boy survived. It was speculated that he and his friends had been chased into the river by Serbs in revenge for the shooting of Ivić the previous day, but this claim has not been proven.\n\nUN police spokesman Neeraj Singh said the surviving boy had been under intense pressure from ethnic Albanian journalists who had suggested what he should say. His version of events differed from that of two other children who had also been in the river, Singh told a news conference in Pristina. The spokesperson said there were \"very significant\" inconsistencies in the accounts given by the child during two separate interviews, and a lack of corroboration of his story. \"In fact, it is logically at odds in several respects with other evidence,\" Mr. Singh said. The UN found no evidence that Serbs were responsible for drowning the three Albanian children.\n\nOn 17 and 18 March 2004, a wave of violent riots swept through Kosovo, triggered by two incidents perceived as ethnically-motivated acts. Demonstrations, although seemingly spontaneous at the outset, quickly focused on Serbs throughout Kosovo.\n27 people were killed (11 Kosovo Albanians, 16 Kosovo Serbs), more than 900 persons were injured (including 65 international police officers and 58 Kosovo Police Service officers), and more than 800 buildings destroyed or damaged (including 29 churches or monasteries). \n\nBy one estimate, more than 50,000 people participated in the riots. The Legal System Monitoring Section of the OSCE Mission in Kosovo (“the OSCE”) has closely monitored the investigations and trials from March 2004 until present. With its monitoring of 73 cases (Municipal, District and Minor Offences Courts) pending between December 2005 and March 2008, the OSCE now follows up on a first report of December 2005.\n\nThousands of Albanians gathered at the south end of the bridge across the Ibar at Kosovska Mitrovica, which divides the Serb and Albanian districts of the town. A large crowd of Serbs gathered at the north end to prevent the Albanians from crossing. Peacekeepers from the NATO-led Kosovo Force (KFOR) blockaded the bridge, using tear gas, rubber bullets and stun grenades to keep the crowds apart. However, gunmen on both sides opened fire with sub-machine guns and grenades, killing at least eight people (two Albanians and six Serbs) and wounding over 300. Eleven peacekeepers were also injured, of which two seriously.\n\nThe violence quickly spread to other parts of Kosovo, with Kosovo Serb communities and Serbian cultural heritage (churches and monasteries) attacked by crowds of Albanians. Serb returnees were attacked. Some of the locations were ostensibly under the protection of KFOR at the time. During the riots and violence, eight Serbs were killed. Among damaged property were at least 35 churches, including 18 monuments of culture, demolished, burnt or severely damaged. The casualty toll at the end of the day was 28 and 600 people were injured, including 61 peacekeepers and 55 police officers.\n\nIn Čaglavica, 12,000 Kosovo Albanian rioters tried to storm the Serb-populated areas. Norwegian KFOR peacekeepers created a blockade by using tear gas, rubber bullets, and stun grenades, in order to keep the two groups apart. A truck was driven by a Kosovo Albanian at full speed towards the barricade in an attempt to penetrate the line. After firing warning shots at the truck, the Norwegians had to use deadly force to avoid friendly casualties, and shot the driver. 16 Norwegian peacekeepers were injured, and 13 had to be evacuated. \n\nAnother KFOR unit consisting of mostly Swedish soldiers also participated in defending Čaglavica that day, supported by people from the barracks who normally worked with non-military tasks. Lieutenant Colonel Hans Håkansson, who commanded 700 people during the unrest, reported that the fighting went on for 11 hours, and that many collapsed due to dehydration and injuries while struggling to fend off waves of rioters. In total, 35 people were injured while defending the town. Hans Håkansson was awarded with a medal for his actions by the Royal Swedish Academy of War Sciences in 2005.\n\nFollowing the attacks in Čaglavica, the mob of Albanians turned their attention on the few remaining Serbs living in Priština in the YU Program apartments. The apartments came under attack after the mob of Albanians blocked all of the entrances and set fire to the ground floors. Serbs who tried to flee the apartments were shot at by firearms or stabbed by members of the crowd. The mob began to loot apartments and were chanting pro Kosovo Liberation Army chants and calling for the killing of Serbs. It took KFOR and UNMIK police over 6 hours to evacuate the Serbs who were under constant fire from armed Albanians. Following the evacuation the crowd began to converge on the Church of the Christ Savour burning and damaging the facade and inside.\n\nAlbanians rioted in the city of Peć, attacking UN offices. One Albanian was killed by UN police. Serb returnees were attacked at .\n\nAlbanians and KFOR were engaged in gunfights in the town of Lipljan. Four Serbs were murdered, while Serbs taking refuge in the local Orthodox church were attacked.\n\nAll Serb houses in the Serb-inhabited village of Svinjare in Vučitrn, near Kosovska Mitrovica, were burnt down.\n\nOn 17 March, ethnic Albanians started attacking the Serb settlement in Prizren, including the Seminary, and reportedly there was no UNMIK, Kosovo Police and KFOR present there at the time. The mob set the Seminary on fire, with people inside, and beat several elder people, with one man dying in the burning. \n\nThe German KFOR's refusal to mobilize to protect the local Serbs are one of the main security failures of the 2004 unrest. UNMIK in Prizren said that the terror, 56 Serb houses and 5 historical churches that were burnt down, could have been prevented by the KFOR.\n\nIn an urgent appeal, issued on 18 March by the extraordinary session of the Expanded Convocation of the Holy Synod of Serbian Orthodox Church (), it was reported that a number of Serbian churches and shrines in Kosovo had been damaged or destroyed by rioters. At least 30 sites were completely destroyed, more or less destroyed, or further destroyed (sites that had been previously damaged). Apart from the churches and monasteries, tens of support buildings (such as parish buildings, economical buildings and residences), bringing the number close to 100 buildings of the SPC destroyed. \n\nAll churches and objects of the SPC in Prizren were destroyed. The list includes several UNESCO World Heritage Sites. Among those destroyed and damaged were:\n\n\nHRW lists 27 Orthodox churches and monasteries burned and looted.\n\nKosovo Albanian politicians such as President Ibrahim Rugova and Prime Minister Bajram Rexhepi joined UN governor Harri Holkeri, NATO southern commander Gregory Johnson, and other KFOR officials in condemning the violence and appealing for peace in Kosovo.\n\nHashim Thaçi, the former Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) leader, \"rejected ethnic division of Kosovo and said independence is a pre-condition for stability in the region.\" He has also said, \"Kosovo, NATO and the West have not fought for Kosovo only for Albanians, nor for a Kosovo ruled by violence. Violence is not the way to solve problems, violence only creates problems.\"\n\nKosovo Police established a special investigation team to handle cases related to the 2004 unrest and according to Kosovo Judicial Council by the end of 2006 the 326 charges filed by municipal and district prosecutors for criminal offenses in connection with the unrest had resulted in 200 indictments: convictions in 134 cases, and courts acquitted eight and dismissed 28; 30 cases were pending. International prosecutors and judges handled the most sensitive cases. By March 2010, 143 Kosovars of Albanian ethnicity were convicted, of which 67 received prison terms of over a year.\n\nThe events in Kosovo brought an immediate angry reaction on the streets of Serbia. On the evening of 17 March, crowds gathered in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Niš to demonstrate against the treatment of the Kosovo Serbs. Despite appeals for calm by Metropolitan Amfilohije, the 17th-century Bajrakli Mosque was set on fire. Islam Aga mosque in the southern city of Niš was also set on fire, while demonstrators chanted \"Kill, kill Albanians!\" When police arrived the mosque was already burning and some media reported that the police didn't move the crowd, so they blocked the fire fighters access to the mosque, leaving them unable to extinguish the fire. Both buildings were extensively damaged but were saved from complete destruction by the intervention of police and firefighters. Also properties of Muslim minorities, such as Goranis, Turks or Albanians were vandalized in Novi Sad and other cities throughout Serbia. Human Rights Watch has concluded that the Serbian state failed to prosecute violence in Novi Sad.\n\nThe Serbian government publicly denounced the violence in Kosovo. Prime Minister Vojislav Koštunica strongly criticized the failure of NATO and the UN to prevent the violence, and called for a state of emergency to be imposed on Kosovo. He gave a speech blaming organized Albanian separatists: \"The events in northern Kosovo-Metohija reveal the true nature of Albanian separatism, its violent and terrorist nature ... [The government will] do all it can to stop the terror in Kosovo\". The Minister of Minority Rights of Serbia and Montenegro, Rasim Ljajić, himself a Muslim, said \"What is now happening in Kosovo confirms two things: that this is a collapse of the international mission, and a total defeat of the international community.\" Nebojsa Čović, the Serbian government's chief negotiator on matters relating to Kosovo, was sent to Kosovska Mitrovica on March 18 in a bid to calm the situation there. Serbian security forces also guarded the border between Serbia and Kosovo in a bid to prevent demonstrators and paramilitaries from entering the province to foment further unrest. The events were compared by Prime Minister Koštunica to ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe Serbs, represented by the \"Union of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija\", described the ordeal as \"genocide\" in a letter sent to the Serbian and Russian patriarchs, to Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Serbian government, where, besides that, they quote the burning of seven villages during the World War II-German occupation to the \"several hundreds\" burnt \"under the rule of the troops of Christian Europe and America\" and according to which the \"occupation of Kosovo surpasses all we had to sustain under fascism.\" The spared Serb villages are compared to \"concentration camps\" because of the missing freedom of movement, electricity and heating. According to the letter, after 1999 there were 8,500 homicides or disappearances of non-Albanian people with no single accomplice tried.\n\nIn 2011, seven years after the incident, Foreign Minister Vuk Jeremić spoke at the Wheaton College in Chicago:\n\nIn less than 72 hours, 35 churches and monasteries were set on fire, many of which date back to the 14th century or even further away in history, which represents an irretrievable loss for the mankind. Dozens of people were killed. Several thousand were wounded. Thousands of houses and shops were leveled to the ground. More than 4,000 Kosovo Serbs were expelled from their homes.\n\nIn Serbia the events were also called the March Pogrom.\n\nThe international community was taken by surprise by the sudden upsurge in violence. Kosovo had been fairly quiet since the end of 1999, although there had been occasional small-scale ethnic clashes throughout the past five years and an ongoing tension between Serbs and Albanians. This had, however, largely gone unnoticed by the Western media since 1999.\n\nKFOR troops closed Kosovo's borders with the remainder of Serbia and Montenegro and the UN suspended flights in and out of the province. NATO announced on 18 March that it would send another 1,000 troops – 750 of them from the United Kingdom – to reinforce the 18,500 troops already there.\n\nThe UN and European Union both appealed for calm, calling on local leaders to restrain their supporters. UN Secretary General Kofi Annan urged both sides to cooperate with the peacekeeping forces but pointedly reminded the Kosovo Albanians that they had a responsibility \"to protect and promote the rights of all people within Kosovo, particularly its minorities\".\n\nAn Austrian OSCE official called the events an orchestrated plan to drive out the remaining Serbs, while one anonymous UNMIK official reportedly referred to the event as \"Kosovo's Kristallnacht\". The commander of NATO's South Flank, Admiral Gregory G. Johnson, said on 19 March that the violence verged on ethnic cleansing of Serbs by Albanians. On 20 March, Kosovo's UN administrator, Harri Holkeri, told journalists that \"Maybe the very beginning was spontaneous but after the beginning certain extremist groups had an opportunity to orchestrate the situation and that is why we urgently are working to get those perpetrators into justice.\"\n\nAccording to Amnesty International, at least 19 people died—11 Albanians and eight Serbs—and over 1,000 were injured while some 730 houses belonging to minorities, mostly Kosovo Serbs, as well as 36 Orthodox churches, monasteries and other religious and cultural sites were damaged or destroyed. In less than 48 hours, 4,100 minority community members were newly displaced (more than the total of 3,664 that had returned throughout 2003), of whom 82% were Serbs and the remaining 18% included Romani (and Ashkali) as well as an estimated 350 Albanians from the Serb-majority areas of Kosovska Mitrovica and Leposavić.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "993987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993987", "title": "Absent-minded professor", "text": "Absent-minded professor\n\nThe absent-minded professor is a stock character of popular fiction, usually portrayed as a talented academic whose academic brilliance is accompanied by below-par functioning in other areas, leading to forgetfulness and mistakes. One explanation of this is that highly talented individuals often have unevenly distributed capabilities, being brilliant in their field of choice but below average on other measures of ability. Alternatively, they are considered to be so engrossed in their field of study that they forget their surroundings. \n\nThe phrase \"absent-minded professor\" is also commonly used more generally in English to describe people who are so engrossed in their \"own world\" that they fail to keep track of their surroundings. It is a common stereotype that professors get so obsessed with their research that they pay little attention to anything else.\n\nThe stereotype is very old: the ancient Greek biographer Diogenes Laërtius wrote that the philosopher Thales walked at night with his eyes focused on the heavens and, as a result, fell down a well.\n\nIsaac Newton, Adam Smith, André-Marie Ampère, Jacques Hadamard, Sewall Wright, Nikola Tesla, Norbert Wiener, Archimedes, Pierre Curie and Albert Einstein were all scholars considered to be absent-minded – their attention absorbed by their academic studies. William Archibald Spooner, who gave his name to the spoonerism, was known for his absent-mindedness and eccentricity.\n\n\"Doc\" Emmett Brown from \"Back to the Future\" is an example of an absent-minded professor in film. Another example is the title character in the film \"The Absent-Minded Professor\" and its less successful film remakes, all based on the short story \"A Situation of Gravity\" by Samuel W. Taylor. \n\nExamples in television include Professor Farnsworth in \"Futurama\", Professor Frink in \"The Simpsons\", Walter Bishop in the Fox television series \"Fringe\", and Professor Von Schlemmer in \"Adventures of Sonic the Hedgehog\". Multo, one of the characters in the children's series \"The Zula Patrol\", is another example of an absent-minded professor. \n\nProfessor Kokintz in \"The Mouse That Roared\" by Leonard Wibberley is an example from literature. Professor Branestawm, created in the 1930s by Norman Hunter, is an earlier example of the archetype, and Jacques Paganel from the Jules Verne's 1867 novel \"In Search of the Castaways\" is probably the codifier of the archetype in the modern literature. Professor Caractacus Potts in the story of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" qualifies as an absent-minded inventor. \n\nComic strip examples include Professor Calculus in \"The Adventures of Tintin\"; Eli Eon in \"Little Orphan Annie\"; and Professor Edgewise, a minor recurring character in Marvel Family stories. \n\nIsaac Kleiner from the \"Half-Life\" saga and Professor Harold MacDougal from \"Red Dead Redemption\" are examples in videogames.\n\nThe archetype is sometimes mixed with that of the mad scientist, often for comic effect, as in the Jerry Lewis film \"The Nutty Professor\" or the Profesor Bacterio in the \"Mortadelo y Filemón\" comics and movies. However, the mad scientist archetype usually has malevolent connotations, while the absent-minded professor is typically characterized as benevolent. \n\nThe fictional absent-minded professor is often a college professor of science or engineering; in the fantasy genre, a similar character may appear as a wizard. Examples of this include the characterisation of Merlin in \"The Sword in the Stone\" (particularly in the Disney adaptation) and Albus Dumbledore in the \"Harry Potter\" series.\n"}
{"id": "18836975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18836975", "title": "Always Becoming", "text": "Always Becoming\n\nAlways Becoming is an artwork created in 2007 by Nora Naranjo-Morse (born 1953), a Native American Potter and poet. She currently resides in Española, New Mexico, just north of Santa Fe and is a member of the Santa Clara Pueblo.\n\nThe sculpture consists of five separate sculptures, that make up a family.\n\nGrounded in figures from Santa Clara Pueblo oral tradition the sculptures are named:\n\nThe sculptures were built in-situ over the summer of 2007, Nora Naranjo-Morse worked with her niece Athena Swentzell Steen and her husband Bill Steen who are experts at building structures with natural material, and the family of Don Juan Morales (Tepehuan) from the Mexican state of Durango, as well as many volunteers including museum staff and visitors.\n\nThe Sculptures are made entirely of natural materials: dirt, sand, straw, clay, stone, black locust wood, bamboo, grass, and yam vines. These natural elements were selected to take on a life of their own and thus affect the sculptures over time. In this way the materials ensure the forms are 'always becoming'.\n\nThe five sculptures range in size from seven and a half to sixteen feet tall.\n\nOn May 24, 2006, the National Museum of the American Indian announced that Naranjo-Morse had won its outdoor sculpture design competition. \"Always Becoming\" was selected unanimously from more than 55 entries submitted by Native artists from throughout the Western Hemisphere.\n\nDuring the summer of 2007, on the grounds of the National Museum of the American Indian, Washington, DC, Naranjo-Morse built a family of clay sculptures. The commissioned work is located on the 'Native landscape' at the museum's south entrance on Maryland Avenue S.W. near 4th Street and Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, D.C.\n\nA public dedication, officially opening these public works of art, took place on September 1, 2007.\n\nThe sculptures are intended to disintegrate over time, and the lives of sculptures from the initial idea through the continued process of stewardship are being documented by Filmmaker Dax Thomas (Laguna/Acoma). As the sculptures disintegrate the films of their life will form a more permanent record of their existence and are therefore an essential part of the artistic process, and the work of art itself.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "263676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263676", "title": "Café society", "text": "Café society\n\nCafé society was the description of the \"Beautiful People\" and \"Bright Young Things\" who gathered in fashionable cafes and restaurants in New York, Paris, and London beginning in the late 19th century. Maury Henry Biddle Paul is credited with coining the phrase \"cafe society\" in 1915. Lucius Beebe created the term \"chromium mist\" for the cafe society lifestyle he chronicled in his weekly column, \"This New York,\" for the\" New York Herald Tribune\" during the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nThey attended each other's private dinners and balls, and took holidays in exotic locations or at elegant resorts. In the United States, café society came to the fore with the end of Prohibition in December 1933 and the rise of photojournalism, to describe the set of people who tended to do their entertaining semi-publicly, in restaurants and night clubs, and who would include among them movie stars and sports celebrities. Some of the American night clubs and New York City restaurants frequented by the denizens of café society included the 21 Club, El Morocco, Restaurant Larue, and the Stork Club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17643866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17643866", "title": "Canadian Anti-racism Education and Research Society", "text": "Canadian Anti-racism Education and Research Society\n\nThe Canadian Anti-racism Education and Research Society (CAERS) is a Canadian non-profit organization that tracks hate groups and extremism, provides direct support to victims of racism and discrimination, and lobbies government and governmental agencies for the development of effective policy and legislation to stop racism. The social justice law firm, Rush, Crane, Guenther, provides legal counsel. CAERS has been criticized for its tactics and financial practices. CAERS maintains a website at Stopracism.ca .\n\nIn 1998, CAERS received the BC Eliminates Racism Together Award from the Ministry of Multiculturalism for research that led to exposing the head of the Ku Klux Klan in British Columbia and organizing against hate.\n\nIn 2001, CAERS received an award from the Ministry of Multiculturalism and Immigration for organizing provincial consultations for the United Nations World Conference Against Racism. According to the Minister:\n\nThe Ministry of Multiculturalism and Immigration greatly acknowledges the important contribution to the United to Combat Racism: Equality-Dignity-Justice by the Canadian Anti-racism Education and Research Society. Your input, collaboration and leadership made this initiative [WCAR consultations] a success and effectively demonstrated the benefits when government and non-governmental organizations work together to build a society that is free from racism.\n\nFive foreign trained medical doctors began a hunger strike in 1990 to draw attention to discrimination in the allocation of medical internships in the province of British Columbia, Canada. In response to a request from the doctors, CAERS and other representatives met with Bill Vander Zalm, then Premier of the province, and John Jensen, then Minister of Health, to demand that the Ministry of Health and the College of Physicians and Surgeons provide equal access for immigrant doctors to internship programs. A report on the demands was written. Meetings were also arranged with the College of Physicians and Surgeons and political opposition parties. Failing to achieve equal access, a complaint was made to the BC Human Rights Tribunal alleging discrimination in the allocation of internships by the BC Ministry of Health, the College of Physicians and Surgeons and Hospitals. In 1999, the Tribunal ruled that foreign trained doctors were discriminated against by the College based on place of origin, but that Hospitals and the BC Ministry of Health had not discriminated.\n\nIn 1990, CAERS was invited to address the House of Commons legislative committee on proposed legislation to create the Canadian Race Relations Foundation (CRRF) as part of a reparations settlement for the internment of Japanese-Canadian during World War II. CAERS' submission was that the name of the CRRF was inappropriate and should not reflect popular misconceptions about the biological significance of the concept of \"race\" in socio-economic relations. CAERS also argued that careful measures were needed to ensure that the Foundation would be at arms length from Government and that it should be a national voice on anti-racism to aid and support NGOs in the development of sustainable anti-racism initiatives.\n\nIn 1990, CAERS was requested to administer funding from the Canadian Labour Force Development Board to establish a national visible minority reference group for labour force development. The National Visible Minority (NVMC) arose from that funding.\n\nThe growth of hate groups and the widespread distribution of hate propaganda throughout North America, particularly in the early 1990s, led CAERS to lobby the Government of Canada to strengthen and broaden hate crime legislation, improve policing and lobby the various Attorneys General in each province to lay charges under the Criminal Code since the consent of the AG is a required before charges under the Criminal Code of Canada for the production and distribution of hate propaganda and advocating genocide can be laid. No charges had been made to then for the production or distribution of hate propaganda under the Criminal Code. To assess the degree of the problem and proposed solutions, CAERS convened an international conference on racism, hate crime and the law funded by the province of British Columbia. In response to a request from the Department of Justice, CAERS prepared a report on the production and distribution of hate material by white supremacist organizations.\n\nBased on the recommendations of the Racism, Hate Crime and the Law conference and the report prepared for the Department of Justice, CAERS began lobbying the Attorney General of BC to establish a dedicated policing unit focusing on hate crime. The first hate crime unit in Canada was soon formed with representation from various police forces in the province and the Community Liaison Branch of the Ministry of the Attorney General and in 1998 the Attorney General of BC gave CAERS an award for exposing the head of the KKK and for providing public education on how to stop the spread of racism. However, no charges were laid against the Klan under the Criminal Code.\n\nIn 1997, CAERS warned that the Heritage Front and Odin’s Law were establishing themselves in Surrey and in Vancouver’s Eastend and that violence would ensue. On January 4, 1998 five racist skinheads kicked to death Mr. Nirmal Singh Gill outside the Guru Nanack temple. CAERS was requested to develop a manual on combatting hate groups with funding from the Ministry of the Attorney General.\n\nNeo-Nazi and other extremist groups have historically used public facilities for meetings because of their low cost and because they lend credibility to their cause. (pic) In response to the use of publicly funded facilitates by hate groups, CAERS began lobbying all levels of government and holding demonstrations outside libraries. In response, the BC Library Association argued that libraries were independent of government control and that freedom of speech had no limits when libraries were concerned. The controversy about the responsible use of tax-payer supported institutions versus free speech generated a great deal of debate and a number of important motions by various city councils to develop acceptable use policy for publicly funded institutions. A complaint to the Ombudsman of BC resulted in the recommendation that libraries in BC issue a written statement of acceptable use regarding meeting room rental much like the acceptable use policy governing computer use and sexually explicit images and that persons using libraries comply with all federal, provincial and municipal legislation and regulations. The Library board chair called the Ombudsman’s recommendations ludicrous.\n\nIn response to a request from the Ministry of Community, Aboriginal and Women’s Services (MCAW) in 2004, Alan Dutton represented CAERS on a steering committee to establish a strategic direction on anti-racism and multiculturalism for British Columbia. The committee developed a \"Blueprint for Change\" document that was to guide ministry programs and activities for the next three to five years. Despite the representation by CAERS and other NGOs, the Government of BC ignored the major recommendations of the committee and began to isolate itself from grass roots organizations and NGOs in favour of five or six large immigrant settlement agencies in the province and to develop a Safe Harbour program without teeth, accountability or grass-roots community support. CAERS viewed the program as a fundamental shift from anti-racism to symbolic multiculturalism.\n\nIn 2007 the Department of Justice Canada conducted a national study to develop recommendations to better respond to hate on the Net, or cyber hate. A national conference was held in Toronto to examine the recommendations from the study. CAERS lobbied against one national hot line because of competing interests and definitions and for support of community hot lines and proactive measures to counter-act cyber hate and the recruitment of youth into extremist groups.\n\nCAERS has been instrumental in building community coalitions to expose and oppose racism across Canada. In 1992 CAERS helped form a coalition to boycott Japanese Air Lines (JAL) for alleged discriminatory seating and stop-over policy in Japan. An employee of Canadian Airlines, the booking agent for JAL, revealed a written policy that ordered JAL attendants to seat Delhi-bound passengers at the back of the plane. It was also alleged that hotel reservations for stopovers in Japan were discriminatory since Delhi-bound passengers were allocated basement accommodation. JAL denied that the seating and reservation policy were discriminatory. JAL agreed that there would be no seating and stop-over reservations without the consent of passengers.\n\nIn 1992, CAERS held a media conference and a rally to stop Tom Metzger of the California-based White Aryan Resistance Movement (WAR) from organizing in B.C. Over 3,000 attended the anti-racist rally at the Vancouver Art Gallery in downtown Vancouver . The local organizer for WAR was Tony McAleer who had been found to have contravened section 13 of the CHRC that prohibits the dissemination of messages likely to expose groups to hatred by telephone and who was later jailed for contempt when he circumvented the CHRC decision by establishing a telephone message system in Washington State.\n\nIn the early 1990s, a local newspaper in the suburbs of Vancouver, the North Shore News, began to regularly publish articles suggesting that immigrants from Iran were taking over Canada, were responsible for crime and that the Holocaust did not occur. Authorities cited for these claims were Ernst Zündel and a number of European Holocaust deniers, including David Irving. CAERS organized demonstrations to denounce the publisher and newspaper. Two human rights complaints were subsequently filed under the BC Human Rights Code against the editor and the writer, Doug Collins. The first, by the Canadian Jewish Congress, failed but the second, by a private small businessman, succeeded and the newspaper was fined and forced to print an apology.\n\nNews of Charles Scott recruiting in the armed forces and schools in several smaller communities in BC broke in 1995. Scott was the Canadian leader of the racist Church of Christ in Israel. In response, CAERS worked with several groups, including Salmon Arm Coalition Against Racism and local Mayors to organize public events in each of the local communities Charles Scott had set up the group, including Abbotsford, Kelowna, Creston and Yahk.\n\nRadio station AM 1040 broadcast a series of interviews in 1995 with Holocaust denier David Irving, Doug Collins and leader of Aryan Nations in Canada, Charles Scott, CAERS gave interviews to several newspapers complaining that the radio station was providing a forum for racists. Radio station AM 1040 retaliated by suing CAERS and Alan Dutton for libel. Of the two newspapers that carried interviews with Dutton, only the Western Jewish Tribune was included in the libel suit. The issue was resolved when AM 1040 dropped the libel suit and paid legal costs.\n\nIn 1999 when Nirmal Sign Gill, a caretaker at the Guru Nanak Temple in Surrey, B.C., was kicked to death by five racist skinheads, CAERS helped from an anti-racist coalition to organize a mass community march and rally. The skinheads charged in the murder of care caretaker were caught by police surveillance planning to kill many more at the Temple. The call for a mass rally was opposed by several groups and by Surrey City Council that feared that the march and rally would end in violence. To fan the fears, the Vancouver Sun reported that the neo-Nazi Heritage Front was organizing a counter-demonstration. In July 1999 more than 3,000 men, women and children peacefully marched to Bear Creek Park to hear speeches and listen to music commemorating the death of Mr. Gill. The Surrey RAMP detachment supplied over 50 uniformed police officers for traffic control and security.\n\nIn response to requests from employees at a Surrey telephone call-in centre, CAERS organized a series of community meetings concerning employment and human rights. The BC Government Employees Union had mounted a campaign to organize the employees and several had complained of retaliation from the employer. CAERS represented several employees at mediation hearings before the BC Human Rights Tribunal and Employment Insurance and won major settlements.\n\nCAERS received support from the National Film Board of Canada, the Department of Canadian Heritage, the Province of British Columbia and Knowledge Network to interview leaders and present and former members of racist groups to produce educational resources on the recruitment and recovery of youth from racist groups. Video-taped interviews were conducted with Ernst Zündel, Charles Scott, Christopher Brodsky, Dan Sims, Kerry Noble, and Johnny Lee Carey.\n\nIn 1999, five hate crime conferences for aboriginal communities in the province were funded in 1998 and CAERS was tasked with presenting research on hate groups affecting Aboriginal Communities in each of the regional conferences.\n\nFollowing a number of incidents in Correctional facilities in 1998, CAERS was tasked by Corrections Canada to develop a manual on racist symbols, to develop educational materials for Corrections staff, to deliver workshop for staff and to hold meetings with inmates on issues related to racism within Corrections.\n\nIn 1999 the United Nations proposed a world conference on racism and discrimination to be held in Durban South Africa and several regional preparatory conferences were held throughout the world. CAERS was a delegate of the Government of Canada to the European prep-conference held in Strasbourg, France and was funded to attend the main conference in Durban. In Canada, CAERS was commissioned to organize regional preparatory conferences for the WCAR by the BC Government. In 2001 the Ministry Of Multiculturalism And Immigration recognized CAERS with an award for community leadership for the work done for the WCAR. The Government of Canada also sponsored regional prep-conferences and CAERS was represented on the advisory committee and thematic sub-committees.\n\nTo address hate on the Net and its impact on youth, a conference, Anti-racism Online, was held with support from the BC Human Rights Commission and Simon Fraser University.\n\nFollowing several incidents between students of Asian and European descent, the Pitt Meadow School District contracted with CAERS to provide workshops on anti-racism and to conduct meetings between faculty and student groups. Over the course of several months, tensions were reduced and new guidelines were developed for dealing with complaints.\n\nIn 2006 CAERS began continued to be active with other community-based groups in monitoring the development of groups like the Aryan Guard in Calgary and Lethbridge, Alberta and Regina, Saskatchewan.\n\nCAERS, Alan Dutton and the Jewish Western Bulletin were sued for libel when Dutton was quoted as saying that radio station AM 1040 was broadcasting interviews with racists. AM 1040 had broadcast extensive interviews with Paul Fromm, David Irving, Doug Collins of the North Shore News, Charles Scott of the Church of Jesus Christ in Israel, and Tony McAleer of the White Aryan Resistance Movement. The White Aryan Resistance Movement was a racist California based group. The leader was Tom Metzger who was found to have encouraged the murder of an African immigrant in Portland, Oregon. The Georgia Straight carried the same allegations as the Jewish Western Bulletin but was not sued. The case went to discovery but was dropped. AM 1040 paid legal costs.\n\n"}
{"id": "53730266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53730266", "title": "Caveman Principles", "text": "Caveman Principles\n\nCaveman Principles is a book by Carl Rosier-Jones. It was published in the UK by Filament Publishing of London in November 2015. The book was designed and written to deliver a different look at stress in a simple and humorous format.\n\nThere are currently 3 Principles, all of which are based on the fact that we are evolved Cavemen. Carl's theories are based on the fact that stress is a result of a natural human response. Concentrating on the fight or flight principles, he surmises that this once life saving response is now a debilitating condition that cause us the daily stress of today. He uses theories as far back as Socrates to describe his communication tool, The Caveman Tribal sorter, personality profiling.\n\nHis principles are:\n\n1st principle - is that everyone has a stress mammoth.\n\n2nd principle - is that communication is key.\n\n3rd principle - is that personal change is always needed.\n\nThe use of characters and the simplicity in the writing of the book has meant that it is being implemented into schools and teaching methods across the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "36322270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36322270", "title": "Changzhou School of Thought", "text": "Changzhou School of Thought\n\nChangzhou School of Thought 常州學派, the Changzhou-centered influential school of scholarship of the late Ming (1368-1644) and Qing dynasties (1644-1912). Scholars in this school are best known for their contribution to the New Text Confucianism.\n\nTang Shunzhi 唐順之 (1507-1560), the famous Ming mathematician and advocate of the ancient prose style, is considered the precursor of the school, since his work underlined importance of calendaric studies and mathematics in the Han scholarship. Tang's argument for the \"concrete studies\" (\"shixue\"), as well as concern about diluting influence of the Buddhist and Daoist teachings on Confucianism of Wang Yangming became an important feature of the Changzhou intellectual framework. \n\nTang Shunzhi was married to the grandmother of Zhuang Qiyuan (1559-1633), who compiled genealogies of Tangs and Zhuangs and claimed intellectual affinity to his predecessors. Qiyuan was influenced by Catholicism and Diego de Pantoja in particular, praising it as superior to Buddhism. Zhuang Qiyuan's sons kept the proclivity for practical knowledge: Zhuang Yinqi (\"jinshi\" 1643) reissued a Ming book on children diseases, expanded with his own commentaries; Zhuang Yinghui (\"jinshi\" 1628), with help of his brothers and sons, compiled a work on military history, extolling the \"Confucian technical expertise\".\n\nBy the beginning of Qing, \"Changzhou \"shixue\"\" was distinct from the Suzhou and Yangzhou traditions. However, its proponents were less interested in the Han learning, sticking to the Cheng-Zhu orthodoxy as a reliable way to examination success.\n\nIn the middle of Qing, however, Changzhou had a plethora of Han learning scholars: Sun Xingyan, Hong Liangji (1746–1809), Huang Jingyan, Zhao Huaiyu, Zhao Yi, Li Zhaole (1769-1849). The spread of Han learning was stimulated by Lu Wenchao, a Hangzhou native, who moved to the Changzhou Longcheng Academy after being the head of the Jiyang Academy 暨陽書院 in the nearby Jiangyin in 1790-96. \n\nZhuang Youke 莊有可, though largely unknown outside Changzhou, was recognized as a fine scholar dealing with the Old text/New text controversy. He was praised for mastery of the Shuowen dictionary and produced a number works on the \"Change classic\" and the \"Chunqiu\". His support to Yan Ruoqu-Hui Dong's refutation of the Old Text \"Shangshu\" chapters stood in opposition to Zhuang Cunyu's politics-bound view: Cunyu held that the \"renxin-Daoxin\" 人心 道心 notion of the \"Councils of Yu the Great\" chapter was crucially important for the imperial ethics, while the \"Han xue\" proponents, including Youke, interpreted it as a heterodox Buddhist influence on the Confucian doctrine.\n\nZhuang Cunyu (another prominent native of Changzhou), however, had an intellectual influence other than textological: he was an embodiment of the message that scholarly activity for a Confucian cannot be divorced from the political. Besides, he was the tutor of the younger generations of his lineage, including Zhuang Shuzu (cousin), Zhuang Shoujia and Liu Fenglu (grandsons). Shoujia was instrumental in publishing grandfather's works, restraining from popularization of his own writings.\n\nDue to the diplomatic and scholarly success of Liu Fenglu (, 1776—1829) in Beijing, the Changzhou school obtained national fame. Thus, he persuaded Ruan Yuan (1764-1849) to include a number of Changzhou-originated studies of classics into the \"Huang Qing jingjie\" 皇清经解.\n\nThe new intellectual generation in Chanzhou showed interest in paleography. Zhuang Shoujia, developing the ideas of Shuzu, authored the \"Shi shuming\" (Explication of writing and names), providing a history of ancient calligraphy with etymological (\"xungu\") and paleographic (\"wenzixue\") insights. Among the sources of his studies, Shoujia used remnants of the Xiping Stone Classics (Han dynasty). Shuzu's pupil Song Xiangfeng (1776-1860) developed specialization in etymology, studying the Erya disctionary. However, quite in spirit of Zhuang Cunyu, he claimed: \"In antiquity, those who studied the Classics did not drown in etymological glosses... Etymologists, if they reach farfetched explanations, and theorists, if they wind up in airy and distant studies, must both be criticized... if the Tao is not put into effect, then the empire will not be ordered. The blame will fall on no one else but on scholars.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30950412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30950412", "title": "Chronostasis", "text": "Chronostasis\n\nChronostasis (from Greek χρόνος, chrónos, \"time\" and στάσις, stásis, \"standing\") is a type of temporal illusion in which the first impression following the introduction of a new event or task-demand to the brain can appear to be extended in time. For example, chronostasis temporarily occurs when fixating on a target stimulus, immediately following a saccade (i.e., quick eye movement). This elicits an overestimation in the temporal duration for which that target stimulus (i.e., postsaccadic stimulus) was perceived. This effect can extend apparent durations by up to 500 ms and is consistent with the idea that the visual system models events prior to perception.\n\nA common occurrence of this illusion is known as the stopped-clock illusion, where the second hand of an analog clock appears to stay still for longer than normal when looking at it for the first time.\n\nThis illusion can also occur in the auditory and tactile domain. For instance, a study suggests that when someone listens to a ringing tone through a telephone, while repetitively switching the receiver from one ear to the other, it causes the caller to overestimate the temporal duration between rings.\n\nOverall, chronostasis occurs as a result of a disconnection in the communication between visual sensation and perception. Sensation, information collected from our eyes, is usually directly interpreted to create our perception. This perception is the collection of information that we consciously interpret from visual information. However, quick eye movements known as saccades disrupt this flow of information. Because research into the neurology associated with visual processing is ongoing, there is renewed debate regarding the exact timing of changes in perception that lead to chronostasis. However, below is a description of the general series of events that lead to chronostasis, using the example of a student looking up from his desk toward a clock in the classroom.\n\n\nIn studying chronostasis and its underlying causes, there is potential bias in the experimental setting. In many experiments, participants are asked to perform some sort of task corresponding to sensory stimuli. This could cause the participants to anticipate stimuli, thus leading to bias. Also, many mechanisms involved in chronostasis are complex and difficult to measure. It is difficult for experimenters to observe the perceptive experiences of participants without \"being inside their mind.\" Furthermore, experimenters normally do not have access to the neural circuitry and neurotransmitters located inside the braincases of their subjects.\n\nBecause of its complexity, there are various characteristics of stimuli and physiological actions that can alter the way one experiences chronostasis.\n\nThe greater the amplitude (or duration) of a saccade, the more severe the resulting overestimation. The further the student in the above example's eyes must travel in order to reach the clock, the more dramatic his perception of chronostasis. This connection supports the assertion that overestimation occurs in order to fill in the length of time omitted by saccadic masking. This would mean that, if the saccade lasted for a longer period of time, there would be more time that needed to be filled in with overestimation.\n\nWhen shifting focus from one object to a second object, the saccadic movement of one's eyes is also accompanied by a conscious shift of attention. In the context of the stopped clock illusion, not only do your eyes move, but you also shift your attention to the clock. This led researchers to question whether the movement of the eyes or simply the shift of the observer's attention towards the second stimulus initiated saccadic masking. Experiments in which subjects diverted only their attention without moving their eyes revealed that the redirection of attention alone was not enough to initiate chronostasis. This suggests that attention is not the time marker used when perception is filled back in. Rather, the physical movement of the eyes themselves serves as this critical marker. However, this relationship between attention and perception in the context of chronostasis is often difficult to measure and may be biased in a laboratory setting. Because subjects may be biased as they are instructed to perform actions or to redirect their attention, the concept of attention serving as a critical time marker for chronostasis may not be entirely dismissed.\n\nFollowing investigation, one may wonder if chronostasis still occurs if the saccadic target is moving. In other words, would you still experience chronostasis if the clock you looked at were moving? Through experimentation, researchers found that the occurrence of chronostasis in the presence of a moving stimulus was dependent on the awareness of the subject. If the subject were aware that the saccadic target was moving, they would not experience chronostasis. Conversely, if the subject were not aware of the saccadic target's movement, they did experience chronostasis. This is likely because antedating does not occur in the case of a consciously moving target. If, after the saccade, the eye correctly falls on the target, the brain assumes this target has been at this location throughout the saccade. If the target changes position during the saccade, the interruption of spatial continuity makes the target appear novel.\n\nProperties of stimuli themselves have shown to have significant effects on the occurrence of chronostasis. In particular, the frequency and pattern of stimuli affect the observer's perception of chronostasis. In regard to frequency, the occurrence of many, similar events can exaggerate duration overestimation and makes the effects of chronostasis more severe. In regard to repetition, repetitive stimuli appear to be of shorter subjective duration than novel stimuli. This is due to neural suppression within the cortex. Investigation using various imaging techniques has shown that repetitive firing of the same cortical neurons cause them to be suppressed over time. This occurs as a form of neural adaptation.\n\nThe occurrence of chronostasis extends beyond the visual domain into the auditory and tactile domains. In the auditory domain, chronostasis and duration overestimation occur when observing auditory stimuli. One common example is a frequent occurrence when making telephone calls. If, while listening to the phone's dial tone, research subjects move the phone from one ear to the other, the length of time between rings appears longer. In the tactile domain, chronostasis has persisted in research subjects as they reach for and grasp objects. After grasping a new object, subjects overestimate the time in which their hand has been in contact with this object. In other experiments, subjects turning a light on with a button were conditioned to experience the light before the button press. This suggests that, much in the same way subjects overestimate the duration of the second hand as they watch it, they may also overestimate the duration of auditory and tactile stimuli. This has led researchers to investigate the possibility that a common timing mechanism or temporal duration scheme is used for temporal perception of stimuli across a variety of sensory domains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "918986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=918986", "title": "Contempt", "text": "Contempt\n\nContempt, not classified among Paul Ekman's six basic emotions of anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness, and surprise, is a mixture of disgust and anger. The word originated in 1393, from the Latin word \"contemptus\" meaning \"scorn\". It is the past participle of \"contemnere\" and from \"com\"- intensive prefix + \"temnere\" \"to slight, scorn\". The origin is uncertain. \"Contemptuous\" appeared in 1529.\n\nRobert C. Solomon places contempt on the same continuum as resentment and anger, and he argues that the differences between the three are that resentment is anger directed toward a higher-status individual; anger is directed toward an equal-status individual; and contempt is anger directed toward a lower-status individual.\n\nEkman and Friesen (1986) identified a specific facial expression that observers in ten different cultures, both Western and non-Western, agreed signaled contempt. In this study, citizens of West Sumatra, Indonesia, were given photos of American, Japanese, and Indonesian peoples. Their ability to classify some facial expressions as contempt versus the primary emotions of anger, disgust, happiness, sadness, fear, or surprise showed that across cultures, general contempt is universally understood (with level of agreement equating to 75%). “An expression in which the corner of the lip is tightened and raised slightly on one side of the face (or much more strongly on one side than the other) signaled contempt.” This study showed that contempt, as well as the outward expression of contempt, can be pointed out across Western and Non-Western peoples when contrasted with other primary emotions.\n\nPaul Ekman, a widely recognized psychologist, found six emotions that were universally recognized: anger, disgust, fear, joy, sadness, and surprise. Findings on contempt are less clear, though there is at least some preliminary evidence that this emotion and its expression are universally recognized.\n\nIn the 1990s Ekman proposed an expanded list of emotions, this time including contempt.\n\nContempt has five features. Contempt requires a judgment concerning the appearance or standing of the object of contempt. In particular, contempt involves the judgment that, because of some moral or personal failing or defect, the contemned person has compromised his or her standing \"vis-à-vis\" an interpersonal standard that the contemptor treats as important. This may have not been done deliberately but by a lack of status. This lack of status may cause the contemptuous to classify the object of contempt as utterly worthless, or as not fully meeting a particular interpersonal standard. Therefore, contempt is a response to a perceived failure to meet an interpersonal standard. Contempt is also a particular way of regarding or attending to the object of contempt, and this form of regard has an unpleasant affective element. However, contempt may be experienced as a highly visceral emotion similar to disgust, or as cool disregard.\n\nContempt has a certain comparative element. In David Hume's studies of contempt, he suggests that contempt essentially requires apprehending the “bad qualities” of someone “as they really are” while simultaneously making a comparison between this person and ourselves. Because of this reflexive element, contempt also involves what we might term a “positive self-feeling” of the contemptuous. A characteristic of contempt is the psychological withdrawal or distance one typically feels regarding the object of one’s contempt. This psychological distancing is an essential way of expressing one’s nonidentification with the object of one’s contempt and it precludes sympathetic identification with the object of contempt. (Hume, 2002, 251) Contempt for a person involves a way of negatively and comparatively regarding or attending to someone who has not fully lived up to an interpersonal standard that the person extending contempt thinks is important. This form of regard constitutes a psychological withdrawal from the object of contempt.\n\nContempt can be useful to being a functioning member of the moral community. An ethics of contempt provides a much larger breadth of answers than other competing systems of ethics, whether they be based on ethics of actions (judging actions by their rightness or wrongness) or ethics of feelings (e.g., ethics of resentment). By feeling contempt for those things which are found to be unethical, immoral, or morally unsavory, one can both show that they are bad and remove them from the moral community.\n\nThe main response of contempt lies within “publicized expression of low regard for the objects held in contempt” (Miller, C.H., 2005). By this reasoning, a person holding contempt would not have the urge to openly confront the person with whom they are at odds, nor would they themselves try to remove the object of contempt; rather, one who holds contempt would have the tendency to hold the view that others should remove the object of contempt, or hold the view that the object of contempt should remove itself. So while one would make their feelings known to others, the person with contempt would not necessarily want to directly deal with the situation at hand. One who is experiencing contempt would exhibit negative affective behaviors that may be labeled as “cold” – this simply meaning that one who is experiencing the emotion of contempt would tend to alienate those responsible.\n\nMen and women act differently when displaying contempt in same-sex relationships. Not only do girls engage in more non-verbal forms of social aggression than boys do, girls dissembled more than boys do, speaking nicely but making mean faces. In the research provided by Underwood (2004) in their laboratory observation studies where they watch girls and boys in an identical social context in which best friends respond to a provoking newcomer, gender differences emerge not for the verbal behaviours, but for the nonverbal expressions of disdain and contempt (which are so glaring that they were observed with high degrees of inter-coder reliability by both women and men, kappa’s exceeding .8; Underwood et al., 2003).\n\nThere are several reasons why girls can be especially prone to conveying anger and contempt by nonverbal forms of social exclusion. One reason may be that girls are socialized from infancy onward to be overtly nice and conciliatory and do so to avoid conflict whenever possible, for fear of being excluded from relationships, disliked, or punished (for reviews, see Brown and Gilligan, 1993; Underwood, 2003; Zahn-Waxler, 2000). Non-verbal forms of social exclusion may be a highly effective way to harm someone with relatively few social consequences; the hurtful act is fleeting, can often be executed behind the victim’s back and outside of the watchful eyes of adults, and, even if caught, mean faces are typically not punished. Second, girls may hurt one another via non-verbal expressions of exclusion or disdain because girls and women may gaze at others more for reasons related to their lower social status, so as to learn as much as possible about others’ needs and desires (see LaFrance, 2002, for a discussion of ‘Smile boycotts and other body politics’, p. 319). Because girls and women gaze at others often, perhaps mean glares are more effective as a means of wielding power. Third, non-verbal forms of social exclusion may be powerful for girls because their relationships involve high levels of intimacy and self-disclosure (see Buhrmester and Prager, 1995, for a review), thus even subtle indicators of exclusion are threatening. Fourth, non-verbal forms of social exclusion may be powerful for girls because although they fiercely desire and defend popularity with other girls, they dread being labelled as ‘stuck up’ (Merten, 1997).\n\nIn 2003, the Palo Alto City Council defeated a resolution that would have discouraged elected officials from facial expressions conveying contempt at public meetings; this was proposed because council members were so weary of colleagues intimidating one another by these subtle but rude facial expressions.\n\nResearch demonstrates how childhood abuse ties into maladaptive communication dynamics consisting of contempt-laden conflict and emotional withdrawal. These findings are important because maladaptive marital communication may be one mechanism by which traumatic childhood experiences translate into poor adult relationship quality.\n\nForms of verbal aggression, such as contempt, belligerence, and defensiveness, are associated with destructive, hostile patterns of conflict resolution ( [Gottman et al., 1998] and [Straus, 1979]). Couples who use such communication styles are more likely to have higher levels of marital distress (Roberts, 2000), lower levels of marital satisfaction (Holman and Jarvis, 2003), and lower levels of marital stability ([Gottman et al., 1998], [Holman and Jarvis, 2003] and [DeMaris, 2000]).\n\nGottman (1999) identified several behaviors that are particularly indicative of distress in relationships. One series of behaviors, which he termed the \"four horsemen,\" includes a cascading of responses such as expressing criticism, defensiveness, contempt, sarcasm, hostility, and withdrawal, the combination of which indicate a critical state of marriage dissolution.\n\nCarstensen, Gottman, and Levenson (1995) found that “Negative emotional behavior, such as expressed anger, sadness, contempt, and other negative emotions, appears to be the best discriminator between satisfied and dissatisfied marriages”. Carstensen, Gottman, and Levenson (1995) also discovered that “In terms of speaker behaviors, wives were coded as showing more total emotion, negative emotion, anger, joy, contempt, whining, and sadness.” This supports the stereotype that women express more emotion than men both in general and in relationships. It also supports the idea that men are less expressive than women and tend to be more defensive minded in conversations.\n\nSix short self-report measures were used to assess several component communication skills (Gottman 1999). Specifically, the questionnaires assessed Repair Attempts, Accepting Influence, Harsh Start-Up, Flooding, Gridlock, and the Four Horsemen. These six measures were chosen because they were of theoretical and clinical interest to the authors, incorporated both adaptive and maladaptive communication behaviors, and included those aspects of couple communication considered by many to be most toxic, including withdrawal and contempt (Gottman 1999; Gottman et al. 1998; Johnson 2003).\n\nFinally, the Four Horsemen create a cascading sequence of responses in which one partner expresses criticism and the other partner responds with defensiveness, causing the first partner to react to the defensiveness with contempt, sarcasm, and/or hostility with their partner, eventually withdrawing from, or stonewalling, the conversation. This cascading negative sequence which occurs as a repetitive, interlocking pattern is believed to signify a critical end-stage process of relationship dissolution, representing a final common causal pathway to relationship dissolution (see Gottman 1994).\n\nIn the book Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking, author Malcolm Gladwell discusses John Gottman's theories of how to predict which couples will stay married. Gottman's theory states that there are four major emotional reactions that are destructive to a marriage: defensiveness, stonewalling, criticism, and contempt. Among these four, Gottman considers contempt the most destructive of them all.\n\nFor all other forms of aggression the Four Horsemen emerged as significant predictors of classification, which is expected given that this construct includes very negative, contemptuous behaviors. This is consistent with marital research, which contends that these communication behaviors are highly toxic, and erode relationship satisfaction (Cornelius et al. 2007; Gottman 1999).\n\nIn abusive relationships between parents and children, the abusive parent may hold contemptuous views towards their child, or vice versa.\n\nPeople feel contempt towards a low status individual at a distant proximity, with other emotions resulting from different combinations.\n\n"}
{"id": "40190398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40190398", "title": "Contour boxplot", "text": "Contour boxplot\n\nIn statistical graphics and scientific visualization, the contour boxplot is an exploratory tool that has been proposed for visualizing ensembles of feature-sets determined by a threshold on some scalar function (e.g. level-sets, isocontours). Analogous to the classical boxplot and considered an expansion of the concepts defining functional boxplot, the descriptive statistics of a contour boxplot are: the envelope of the 50% central region, the median curve and the maximum non-outlying envelope.\n\nTo construct a contour boxplot, data ordering is the first step. In functional data analysis, each observation is a real function, therefore data ordering is different from the classical boxplot where scalar data are simply ordered from the smallest sample value to the largest. More generally, data depth, gives a center-outward ordering of data points, and thereby provides a mechanism for constructing rank statistics of various kinds of multidimensional data. For instance, functional data examples can be ordered using the method of band depth or a modified band depth. In contour data analysis, each observation is a feature-set (a subset of the domain), and therefore not a function. Thus, the notion of band depth and modified band depth is further extended to accommodate features that can be expressed as sets but not necessarily as functions. Contour band depth allows for ordering feature-set data from the center outwards and, thus, introduces a measure to define functional quantiles and the centrality or outlyingness of an observation. Having the ranks of feature-set data, the contour boxplot is a natural extension of the classical boxplot which in special cases reduces back to the traditional functional boxplot.\n\nSet band depth (introduced in ), denoted as sBD, is a method for establishing a center-outward ordering of a collection of sets. As with other band depth, data ordering methods, set band depth, computes the probability of whether a sample lies in the band formed by \"j\" other samples from the distribution. We say that a set \"S\" ∈ \"E\" is an element of the band of a collection of \"j\" other sets \"S\", ..., \"S\" ∈ \"E\" if it is bounded by their union and intersection. That is:\n\nThe set band depth is the sum of probabilities of lying in bands formed by different numbers of samples (2, ..., \"J\").\n\nSet band depth is shown to be a generalization of function band depth. Set band depth has a modified form that is derived from a relaxed form of subset, which requires only a percentage of a set to be included in another.\n\nContour band depth (cBD) is a direct application of sBD, where the sets are derived from thresholded input functions, \"F\"(\"x\") > \"q\". In this way, an ensemble of scalar input functions and a threshold value, gives rise to a collection of contours, and sorting cBD gives a data-depth ordering (highest-to-lowest probability gives greatest-to-smallest depth) of those contours. By relying on the set formulation, contour boxplots avoid any explicit correspondence of points on different contours.\n\nIn the classical boxplot, the box itself represents the middle 50% of the data. Since the data ordering in the contour boxplot is from the center outwards, the 50% central region is defined by the band delimited by the 50% of deepest, or the most central observations. The border of the 50% central region is defined as the envelope representing the box in a classical boxplot. Thus, this 50% central region is the analog to the interquartile range (IQR) and gives a useful indication of the spread of the central 50% of the curves. This is a robust range for interpretation because the 50% central region is not affected by outliers or extreme values, and gives a less biased visualization of the curves' spread. The observation in the box indicates the median, or the most central observation which is also a robust statistic to measure centrality.\n\nThe \"whiskers\" of the boxplot are the vertical lines of the plot extending from the box and indicating the maximum envelope of the dataset except the outliers. In contour boxplots, this is formed by considering the difference of the union and intersection formed by all non-outlying samples. Outliers are determined as having a cBD value that is less than some multiplier (less than one) times the cBD of the 50% ranked samples.\n\nThe following example is an ensemble of data from 2D incompressible Navier–Stokes simulation consisting of 40 members, where each ensemble member is a simulation with Reynolds number and inlet velocity chosen randomly. The inlet velocity values are randomly drawn from a normal distribution with mean value of 1 and standard deviation of ±0.01 (in non-dimensionalized units); likewise, Reynolds numbers are generated from a normal distribution with mean value of 130 and standard deviation of ±3.\nThe example below is from an ensemble of publicly available data from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) [1]. The ensemble data are formed through different runs of a simulation model with different perturbations of the initial conditions to account for the errors in the initial conditions and/or model parameterizations. The ensemble consists of isocontours of the temperature field (isovalue −15C) at 500mb in altitude.\n\n"}
{"id": "6061225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6061225", "title": "Delegated authority", "text": "Delegated authority\n\nDelegated authority is an authority obtained from another that has authority since the authority does not naturally exist.\n\nTypically this is used in a government context where an organization that is created by a legitimate government, such as a Board, City, Town or other Public Corporations to allow them to legally function in the name of the constitutional government.\n\n"}
{"id": "26899002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26899002", "title": "Dickinson S. Miller", "text": "Dickinson S. Miller\n\nDickinson Sargeant Miller (October 7, 1868 – November 13, 1963) worked with many world-renowned philosophers, including William James, George Santayana, John Dewey, Edmund Husserl, and Ludwig Wittgenstein.\n\nMiller received the A.B. degree in 1889 under George Fullerton at the University of Pennsylvania. He studied psychology under G. Stanley Hall at Clark University for a year, and then went to Harvard where he was a graduate student under William James, G. H. Palmer, Josiah Royce, and Santayana. He received the A.M. from Harvard in 1892.\n\nHe then spent a year in Germany studying at Berlin and Halle under Max Dessoir, Hermann Ebbinghaus, and Friedrich Paulsen, earning his Ph.D. with a dissertation on \"Das Wesen der Erkenntnis und des Irrthums\", which was published as \"The Meaning of Truth and Error\" in \"The Philosophical Review\" in 1893.\n\nThis article led James to abandon Royce's solution of the knowledge problem in terms of an absolute mind. James recommended Miller to a post at Bryn Mawr College in 1893, where he was a close friend of Woodrow Wilson.\n\nIn 1899, Miller became a strong critic of James's famous arguments in \"The Will to Believe\" that the beneficial effects of a belief somehow increased its \"truth.\" His critical article was \"The Will to Believe and the Duty to Doubt.\"\n\nMiller left Bryn Mawr that year to become an instructor of philosophy at Harvard, where he had a strong and productive collaboration with James. James referred to Miller as \"my most penetrating critic and intimate enemy.\" \n\nIn 1904, Miller left Harvard to be a lecturer in philosophy at Columbia and professor in 1911. There he worked with Arthur O. Lovejoy and John Dewey.\n\nMiller retired from academic work after two years at Smith College (1926-26) and went into a \"European retirement.\" He visited Rome at first and then alternated between Florence and Vienna, where he made contact with the \"Vienna Circle\" of philosophers, including Moritz Schlick, Otto Neurath, Rudolf Carnap, Herbert Feigl, and others.\n\nMiller challenged a basic principle of the Circle that \"no sentence can be admitted to philosophical thought as having a meaning unless it is verifiable in experience.\" Such a principle, he argued \"cuts the ground from under its own feet\" because a sentence has to already have meaning before you can apply the test.\n\nIn Vienna he met with Ludwig Wittgenstein who was then loosely associated with the Vienna Circle.\n\nIn 1934, as Miller left to return for America, he published a landmark article in \"Mind\" under the pseudonym R. E. Hobart.\n\nHe analyzed the relationship between \"could\" and \"can\" in the sense of choosing to do otherwise in the same circumstances and he claimed that the controversy of free will \"versus\" determinism was a waste of energy over a false antithesis. At least some determinism is not a problem for free will but a feature.\n\nThe article was titled \"Free Will as Involving Determination and Inconceivable Without It,\" but it is widely misquoted as \"Involving Determinism.\" His biographer, Loyd Easton, correctly describes it as \"an acute example of 'soft determinism' or 'reconciliationism'.\"\n\nThe problem of \"determinism\" \"versus\" free will that William James was concerned about was the strict causal determines that is better called predeterminism where every event is determined in a causal chain back to the beginning of time, and there is \"but one possible future,\" as James put it.\n\nFar from \"reconciling\" free will with this kind of determinism, as David Hume said that he had done in his \"reconciling project,\", James proposed the first two-stage model of free will that denies predeterminism and accepts absolute chance as necessary for the generation of alternative possibilities, which are the source of \"ambiguous futures\" selected by the determination, but not predetermination, of the will.\n\nMiller/Hobart dissents from James's new idea about free will, constructing a distinctive reconciling compatibilism that dispenses with any requirement for chance in the analysis of what persons' abilities to perform alternate acts. Rather than analyzing causality as Hume did, Hobart focuses on moral evaluation of acts and character.\n\nWriting about six years after the discovery of quantum indeterminacy, Hobart explicitly does not endorse strict logical or physical determinism, and he explicitly does endorse the existence of alternative possibilities, i.e., that we can do otherwise in the same circumstances. Hobart does not, however, attribute those possibilities to absolute chance.\n\nHe says:\n\nWe can contrast Hobart with William James's claim that there are ambiguous futures. The second paragraph is not inconsistent with the two-stage model of free will - first \"free\" courses of action present themselves, then an adequately determined \"will\" chooses between them, in a temporal sequence. However, the first paragraph denies that any randomness in the decision process, including the presentation of options, adds to freedom.\n\nHobart refers to G. E. Moore's idea that one could have done otherwise - \"if\" one had chosen otherwise. But Hobart views the \"if\" as redundant, and therefore licenses the claim that we could have done otherwise, full stop.\nHobart finds fault with the indeterminist's position, but he gives the typical overstatement by a determinist critic, that any chance will be the direct cause of our actions, which of course would clearly be a loss of freedom and responsibility\n\nPossibly Hobart has William James in mind as \"the indeterminist.\" However, the only inderminist philosopher named in the article is Eddington. James would not have denied that our will is an act of determination, consistent with, and in some sense \"caused by\" our character and values, our habits, and our current feelings and desires. He simply wanted chance to provide alternative possibilities for actions and a break in the causal chain of strict determinism.\n\nHobart sees no need for such chance, and no addition to freedom to be had by it. The freedom we take ourselves to have is fully consistent with thorough-going determinism regarding human action.\n"}
{"id": "6999575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6999575", "title": "ER/Studio", "text": "ER/Studio\n\nER/Studio is data architecture and database design software developed by Embarcadero Technologies. ER/Studio is compatible with multiple database platforms and is used by data architects, data modelers, database administrators and business analysts to create and manage database designs, document and reuse data assets. In 2015, Embarcadero Technologies was acquired by database and infrastructure management software company IDERA, Inc. Since the acquisition by IDERA, Inc., ER/Studio has been renamed to ER/Studio Data Architect with updated features.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3280313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3280313", "title": "Ecological imperialism", "text": "Ecological imperialism\n\nEcological imperialism is the theory advanced first by Alfred Crosby that European settlers were successful in colonization of other regions because of their accidental or deliberate introduction of animals, plants, and disease leading to major shifts in the ecology of the colonized areas and to population collapses in the endemic peoples. The many pathogens they carried with them adversely affected the native populations of North America, Australia, and Africa, and were far more destructive than weaponry: it is estimated that disease wiped out up to 90 percent of indigenous people in some locations. \n\nIn the early 16th century, Spanish conquistador Hernán Cortés led an expedition to what is now Mexico, which resulted in the total destruction of the Aztec Empire within just two years (February 1519 – August 1521). Notwithstanding the Europeans' superior weaponry and Horses, it is believed that the arrival of smallpox in the Americas in 1520 weakened the resistance the Aztecs people were able to mount.\n\nIn 1607, English settlers arrived in North America and established the Jamestown colony in Virginia. Though at first it seemed the colonists would not survive the harsh conditions of the New World, ultimately it was the natives who could not survive the diseases of the Old World. \"The colonizers brought along plants and animals new to the Americas, some by design and others by accident. Determined to farm in a European manner, the colonists introduced their domesticated livestock—honeybees, pigs, horses, mules, sheep, and cattle—and their domesticated plants, including wheat, barley, rye, oats, grasses, and grapevines. But the colonists also inadvertently carried pathogens, weeds, and rats.\" The introduction of these foreign species upset the balance of native species and severely hurt the way of life of the native population. \n\nThe first major smallpox outbreak among natives was between 1616 and 1619 in Massachusetts. Native Americans had never seen a disease like this, and it wiped out entire settlements in nations such as the Abenaki, the Pawtucket, and the Wampanoag. \"By wiping out the Indians, smallpox helped the colonists help themselves to land and resources formerly controlled by unfriendly native people. The Europeans could and did colonize virtually unchallenged in some areas.\" In 1633 there was another devastating epidemic. William Bradford, governor of the Plymouth Colony, observed that: \"They lye on their hard matts, ye pox breaking and muttering, and running one into another, their skin cleaving (by reason thereof) to the matts they lye on; when they turn them, a whole side with flea off at once...and they will be all of a gore blood, most fearful to behold. Then being very sore, what with cold and other distempers, they dye like rotten sheep.\" Syphilis was also extremely devastating, and ran rampant when brought back to the Old World.\n\nThe fur trade was as detrimental to the survival of native people as it was imperative to the success of settlers due the high European demand. Trappers employed natives because of their knowledge of the terrain and wildlife, putting natives with no immunity to European diseases into close contact with Europeans.\n\nThe fur trade also upset the ecological balance of North America. \"Restraint wasn't a hallmark of the fur trade. In 1822, in the north western regions of the country alone, the Hudson's Bay Company stockpiled 1500 fox skins, a paltry number compared with the 106,000 beaver skins, but too many none the less. The fur traders had miscalculated. As predators, they had failed to adapt to their prey, and their prey, in turn, retaliated with denial. Of course, the red fox didn't render himself extinct. His numbers merely shrank.\".\n\nHistorian and professor Alfred Crosby wrote \"\" in 1986. He uses the term \"Neo-Europes\" to describe the places colonized and conquered by Europeans.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30187204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30187204", "title": "Endre Tot", "text": "Endre Tot\n\nEndre Tot (Endre TÓT) born in Sümeg, Hungary,1937 is a Hungarian artist who lives and works in Cologne, Germany.\n\nTot participated in the Fluxus movement and is well known for his Mail art projects, the use of xerox copies and usage of rubber stamps with clear conceptual text declarations. In some of them Tot declares: \"We are glad if we are happy\". In 1999 he shows \"Who's Afraid of Nothing? Absent images\" at Museum Ludwig, Cologne, a continuation of a project called \"Nothing is not nothing\".\n\nHe studied at the Mural Department of the Hungarian College of Arts and Crafts from 1959 till 1965. He started to make informel paintings, an absolute novelty in Hungary, in the early 60s followed shortly by collages and works executed in the spirit of Pop Art and Minimal Art. He became attached in the mid-60s to a leading but neglected Avant-Garde painter, Dezső Korniss who highly appreciated his pioneering informel ventures. In 1968 and 1969 he joined his young Neo-Avant-Garde colleagues named collectively the Iparterv Group of Artists at two scandalous exhibitions heavily criticised by officialdom. A retrospective of his early works was staged at the Budapest Kiscelli Museum in 1989, his early pencil and ink drawings were shown at Székesfehérvár’s King Stephen Museum in 2003, while a comprehensive exhibition of his early works entitled „Early Works – from painted to unpainted pictures” at the Szombathely Gallery in 2004 presented most of his important works executed before his „My Unpainted Canvasses” (1970). After the political turn of 1989-1990 many of his major works executed back in the 60s were acquired by important Hungarian museums.\n\nIn 1970-71 he broke radically with painting and has since been pre-occupied with Concept Art. „Tót may well have possessed the most phenomenal painter talent among artists living East of Amsterdam. And yet, he voluntarily relinquished painting for the sake of a truth that he had gradually recognised to be even more important than painting.” (Géza Perneczky, writing in Új Művészet, October, 2003) As a farewell to his painter period he prepared his artist’s book „My Unpainted Canvasses” (1970), a virtual presentation of his canvasses never actually accomplished. Also in the early 70s, he evolved some of his basic ideas like \"Nothing/Zer0\", \"Rains and Gladnesses\" that were to permeate his works in subsequent decades.\nThe new media he employed in his art include telegrams, picture postcards, T-shirts, Xerox copies, typewriters, films, music, posters, graffiti, banners, actions, artist’s books, street newsreels.\nCritics recognised his early „Absent Works” published by Cologne-based DuMont Verlag (\"Aktuelle Kunst in Ost-Europa\", 1972) to be the very first conceptual works stemming from Eastern-Europe, works that were to be greatly enhanced in subsequent decades. Some other conceptual works of his were also published in Achille Bonito Oliva’s „Europe/America: The Different Avant-Garde” (Milan, 1976).\n„He entered the stage of mail art almost in the very first hour”, wrote J. M. Poison in his catalogue of 1971 entitled „Mail Art-Communication - A Distance-Concept”. His fellow mail art correspondents included his later friend Ben Vautier, John Armleder, George Brecht, Daniel Spoerri, Cosey Fanny Tutti, Genesis P-Orridge, Dieter Roth, Marina Abramovich, Ken Friedmann and his dog. His mail art was exhibited at the Paris Bi-Annual of 1972 together with art by such other mail art pioneers as Marcel Duchamp, Yves Klein, Richard Johnson, Ben Vautier, George Brecht. About his letters written with a zero code Pierre Restany, a friend of Yves Klein’s, wrote this in 1978: „In the immaterial zone of a concentrated (ZEROED) sensitivity Endre Tót appears to be the Yves Klein of mail art, a monochrome of postage.”\nHis first museum exhibition was staged by the Israel Museum in 1975. Since Hungary had severed its diplomatic relations with Israel in 1967, Tót was forced to smuggle his works out of Hungary in an adventurous way. His conceptual works (e.g. his Rainproof-ideas) executed between 1970 and 1974 were exhibited there simultaneously with Alberto Giacometti’s statues. Art magazines in Germany, Italy, and France took note of the exhibition with the Jerusalem Post commenting: \"This is not to say that Endre Tot is the same race with Giacometti, but he is a totally new and rewarding experience.\"\nIn 1974, the Swiss Howeg Verlag published his sheet of stamps called Zero-Post among the very first artist’s stamps of international mail art.\nAt the invitation of John Armleder, his later friend who became world-famous for his Neo Geo movement, he spent half a year with the Ecart Gallery of Geneva, an institution also functioning as a mail art centre. It was during his stay in Geneva that he accomplished his first street action (TOTalJoys 1976) which was filmed and later issued on DVD by the Paris Bureau des Videos in 2005.\nHis artist’s books made in Budapest in the 70s earned him quite a lot of international praise. He had first published them on a samizdat basis but they were later republished by Western-European Avant-Garde publishers. 1971: „My Unpainted Canvasses”, „The States of Zeros”, „Semmi sem semmi / Nothing ain't Nothing”, 1972: „Nothing”, „Incomplete Informations”, 1974: „Zero-Texts (1971-72)”, „Night Visit to the National Gallery” (Beau Geste Press, UK), „Zero-Post”, „Rainproof Ideas (1971-74)”, 1979: ”TÓTalJOYS”, 1981: ”Very Special Drawings”, 1990: „Evergreen Book”. In 1998, the Paris Bibliothèque Nationale bought several of his artist’s books. The library of the Paris Pompidou Centre acquired his Correspondence avec John Armleder (Ecart, Geneva, 1974) in 2010. His artist’s books were exhibited in many European, American and Canadian museums including the Pompidou Centre’s „Livres d'Artistes” exhibition of 1985.\nHe was still a resident of Budapest when, in 1977, he exhibited with Galerie Bama, one of the best-known Paris galleries. His show was reviewed in L 'Express by Otto Hahn. Due to his international actions and mail art activities he counted in the West as one of the most notable Eastern-European artists, an appraisal hardly acknowledged in his native country.\nHe was plucked from the isolation of his Óbuda apartment in the late 70s by an invitation coming from the Berlin Artist Program of DAAD. His applications for an exit permit had been refused by the authorities several times which created a political sensation in the Western press, a circumstance that eventually earned him a permit. After staying in Berlin for a year Tót opted for emigration. His Óbuda apartment was confiscated but his sibling had evacuated his works stored there in the nick of time. After being stored in various low-key places, they were eventually deposited with the Hungarian National Gallery in an orderly fashion.\nIt was in West-Berlin that Tót came to realise the ideas that he had taken with him in his suitcase and in his mind from Budapest. Shortly after arriving, he placed the following inscription upon the Berlin Wall: „Ich würde mich freuen, wenn ich etwas auf die andere Seite der Mauer schreiben dürfte” (I should be glad if I were allowed to write something on the other side of this wall). He demonstrated his joys (\"TÓTalJOYs\") with posters in his hand or upon his back in the busiest spots of the metropolis. He even placed a flickering sentence speaking about his joy among the news items of a street newsreel atop a Kurfürstendamm building. In 1978 DAAD filmed and published in book form his street action named TOTalJOYS. He twice exhibited his works with Galerie René Block, an institution previously hosting such notables as Joseph Beuys, Richard Hamilton, Allan Kaprow, Nam June Paik, Wolf Vostell. The irony inherent in his actions and mail art definitely links him up with the fluxus movement in Germany. He was the sole Eastern-European protagonist of the itinerant exhibition organised by René Block entitled „Fluxus in Germany 1962-1992”.\n\nAfter a stay of one and a half years in Berlin he moved to Cologne with his German wife Herta. The first years of his Cologne period were much less productive than his stay in Berlin. He hardly ever worked until the mid-80s. Invited by Artist Place, he flew to New York City in 1982 with a piece of chalk in his pocket that he used for placing graffiti on the walls of the gallery. It was here that he met up with a great number of notable artists including Alan Kaprow and his friend of old, John Armleder.\nWith the „blackout years” gone, as he himself called them, he started to work again feverishly from the late 80s on. He elaborated on the idea of „absent paintings”, an idea dating back to his Budapest years (My Unpainted Canvasses, 1970, Night Visit to the National Gallery, A Visit to the Museum, both in 1974). With his „absent paintings” he accomplished a virtual return to painting but this was tantamount in his case to its final destruction. The spirit nurturing his Blackout and Catalogued paintings comes from an aesthetics of dearth[1] . Conceived in an aesthetics of disappearance, his „absent” works attempt to visualise nothing and void itself. His large work entitled „Dada Messe in Berlin” was exhibited at the show ICONOCLASH: Beyond the Image Wars in Science, Religion and Art (ZKM, Karlsruhe, 2002) presenting major iconoclastic works by Dürer, Rembrandt, Goya, Duchamp, Malevich, Picabia, Warhol, Beuys etc. At the Bremen exhibition „Who Killed the Painting?” (Museum für Moderne Kunst, 2010) his large triptych „Fluxus Triptichon” (2002, 3 x 200 x 125 cm) was on view alongside works by Beuys, Kaprow, Ben Vautier, G. Brecht, Al Hausen, Nam June Paik etc.\n\nAfter the political change of 1989-1990 in Hungary Tót returned to his native country with his works created abroad. He filled all 12 exhibiting halls of the Palace of the Arts with them under the evocative title of „Nothing is Nothing”. Four years later he exhibited with the Cologne Ludwig Museum (Who is afraid of Nothing?), and this selection of his works was re-exhibited with the Budapest branch of the Ludwig Museum in 1999. Tót is the first Hungarian artist to have been asked to put on an individual show at the Kassel Documenta. Curators there insisted on using the Hungarian title of his Budapest show (Semmi sem semmi) probably because they liked its exotic sound. His action on the city’s main square involving him distributing flyers with a black mask hiding his face was cut short by the police even though the flyers contained no information at all. Along with his works accomplished in his studio, his street actions have also helped him achieve international fame. \n„I am glad that I have stood here” – this was inscribed in Hungarian on his bronze plaque placed in the pavement in 1998 in front of Artpool's art space in Budapest (60, Paulay Ede St.). Six years later a similarly inscribed plaque („Ich freue mich, dass ich hier gestanden habe”) was placed in the floor of the roof terrace of the Cologne Ludwig Museum. \nHis Flyer, Zero, Joy etc. street actions as satellite events to international exhibitions have embarrassed or enraged passers-by in many cities over the decades, not infrequently causing even the police to intervene. International critics usually evaluate those anti-demonstrations by Tót to be responses to the mandatory political demonstrations that he had lived through as a young man in totalitarian Hungary.\n\nA photo documentation of Tót’s earliest street action was exhibited at the international show „Protest & Survive” put on by the famous London Whitechapel Gallery. Requested by the curators, he also re-staged his remarkable Geneva street action. The catalogue said this about his actions: „Tót's response to the censorship, isolation and suppression inherent in a totalitarian state was to produce his series of joy”. At the exhibition staged by the Vienna Kunstforum entitled „Superstars von Warhol bis Madonna” (2005) his conceptual paperwork „depicting” or rather just marking Mona Lisa’s (absent) smile was on view alongside Duchamps’ famous moustached Mona Lisa. \nThe New York Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) had acquired several works of his created during his Budapest isolation and exhibited them in 2006 at its show „Eye on Europe – 1960 to Now”. Along with Czech artist Milan Knizak, Tót was the only exhibiting artist coming from Eastern Europe. Two years later MoMA director Glenn D. Lowry presented an Honorary Artist Membership to him.\n\nIn 2010 he exhibited with such wide-ranging institutions as Neues Museum Nürnberg, Museum für Moderne Kunst Wesenburg - Bremen, Centre Georges Pompidou Paris, The V. Koc Foundation Contemporary Art Collection Istanbul. The Pompidou Centre’s catalogue published a copy of his 1975 letter to Pierre Restany ending with the words: „So I'm fucked with my zer0000000000000s”. Simultaneously, the Paris Hungarian Institute staged a show of the Iparterv Group of Artists (Le Progrés de l'Illusion), where Tót’s early (1966/67) informel paintings and paperworks were also on view.\nHis conceptual works were acquired from 1975 through 2010 by such major collections as those of MoMA New York, Getty Museum Los Angeles, Museum Ludwig Köln, Neue Nationalgalerie Berlin, Israel Museum Jerusalem, Haags Gemeentemuseum The Hague, and the Budapest Museum of Fine Arts as well as East-Central European museums like National Gallery Prague, Museum Stuki Łódź, Museum of Modern Art Ljubjana, National Gallery of Art Varsaw, Museum of Modern Art Olmütz, Hungarian National Gallery, Ludwig Museum Budapest, or even two museums in Latin-America: the Center de Arte y Communication (CAYC) Buenos Aires, and the Museu de Arte Contemporaneu da Universidade de São Paulo. \nProbably more than a hundred of his major works are preserved in such notable private collections as Sammlung Dr. Speck (Cologne), Sammlung René Block (Berlin), Das Archive Sohm (Stuttgart), The Sacker Archive of Concrete und Visual Poetry (Miami Beach, Florida).\nIn 2009 he published a memoir entitled „I’m glad that I can write one sentence after another” with Noran Publishers, Budapest. A critic wrote this about the book: „This is half-way between a logbook and an autonomous work of art since the primacy of the text is questioned throughout by its unusual layout and illustrations… The account Tót gives of his youthful love-affair is deeply moving, the way he recalls the relationship of the regime towards its artists in the 60s and 70s, convincing, and the list of his fleeting affairs with girls is very funny.”\nDue to the extreme multiplicity of Tót’s oeuvre, it is next to impossible to understand his art without a thorough-going theoretical back-up.\n\nDrawing Triennale, Wroclaw, 1974, 1977, 1992 \nLisbon International Show, Lisbon, 1979 \nDAAD-grant, Berlin, 1978/79 \nStudio grant, Stedelijk Museum, Amsterdam, 1980 \nArbeitsstipendium, Kunstfonds e. v., Bonn, 1990 \nHonorary Artist Membership, Whitchapel Art Gallery, London, 2005 \nMunkácsy Mihály Award, Budapest, 2006 \nSpecial Award, 48th Autumn Salon, Belgrade, 2006 \nHonorary Artist Membership, Museum of Modern Art, New York, 2008 \nKossuth Award, Budapest, 2009\n\n\n\n\n\n\n \"I'm glad if I can write one sentence after another\", Noran (2009)(In Hungarian)\n\n"}
{"id": "38930324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38930324", "title": "Evacuate Earth", "text": "Evacuate Earth\n\nEvacuate Earth is a National Geographic Channel documentary that portrays the hypothetical scenario of humans evacuating the planet Earth before it is destroyed by a rogue neutron star. The documentary details the technical and social complications of building a generation ship to save humanity and other Earth organisms by relocating to a planet in another solar system. \n\nThe documentary proposes a thought experiment in which a neutron star approaches Earth. Constant meteor storms are the first warning sign, and dramatic sequences depict widespread destruction and the deaths of thousands of people. Given seventy-five years to prepare, human society radically shifts toward the evacuation of Earth. The propulsion system for the spacecraft is the first problem to be addressed. In a dramatic sequence, the world's leading experts debate the benefits and drawbacks of various methods. Conventional rockets are too slow, and antimatter engines are too unstable; they eventually settle on nuclear pulse propulsion, as originally suggested by Project Orion. The world's engineers, scientists, and manufacturing workers begun work at a new site dubbed Starship City. Interviewed experts propose that fatalism may drive some people either to suicide or radicalism and attempts to sabotage the project. In one dramatic sequence, terrorists strike the facility, though they are destroyed by a hidden minefield. Brush fire conflicts also escalate, as security forces are focused on either maintaining order or protecting the interstellar project's facilities and personnel.\n\nWho is to be evacuated is another major issue. Although diversity is respected, any selected individual would have to be genetically hardy and not predisposed toward disease (such as schizophrenia and diabetes). In dramatic sequences, a second ark ship is announced amid controversy, as it is reserved for the world's wealthiest and most powerful families willing to pay for passage. Simulated newscasts announce delays and setbacks as scientists are lured to the private ark ship. As the neutron star enters our solar system, Saturn is destroyed, and the Earth experiences calamitous shifts in its seasons and bursts of radiation leading to fatalities and ecological damage. The private ark ship, equipped with an antimatter engine, explodes when its antimatter containment fails. Families are potentially broken up as they prepare to board the remaining ark ship, and experts discuss the basic necessities for human life: bacteria, air, water, and food. Bacteria are easily stored, and air is synthesized from water. Food, however, remains a difficult problem, and experts propose that colonists will eat insects and algae, which are easily replenished and space efficient.\n\nThe ark ship launches and quickly speeds away, a few days later the neutron star is close enough that its tidal force begins to deform the Earth's core and the crust, which causes massive earthquakes and volcanism. Next, the gravity from the neutron star tears away the surface, causing the crust to shatter and the hot interior of Earth to spill out into the vacuum of space, destroying the Earth, but only the colonists on the ark can witness this event, as the rest of humanity had already been wiped out. The colonists continue their journey to Barnard's Star; experts discuss the potential for mutiny and factionalism, ultimately rejecting them as unlikely, as strong family and societal bonds will be emphasized. The journey is estimated to take approximately eighty-eight years, and the youngest of the original crew survive to see the new planet, which potentially harbors other lifeforms. Experts conclude that the scenario, though unlikely, is possible and requires preparation from the world's governments.\n\n\nMike Hale of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"It’s essentially science fiction, cheap and cheesy, with lots of stock scenes of explosions, fires and chaotic crowds, but it’s consistently interesting.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4708237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4708237", "title": "Facticity", "text": "Facticity\n\nIn philosophy, facticity (, ) has a multiplicity of meanings from \"factuality\" and \"contingency\" to the intractable conditions of human existence.\n\nThe term is first used by German philosopher Johann Gottlieb Fichte (1762-1814) and has a variety of meanings. It can refer to facts and factuality, as in nineteenth-century positivism, but comes to mean that which resists explanation and interpretation in Wilhelm Dilthey and Neo-Kantianism. The Neo-Kantians contrasted facticity with ideality, as does Jürgen Habermas in \"Between Facts and Norms\" (\"Faktizität und Geltung\").\n\nGerman philosopher Martin Heidegger (1889-1976) discusses \"facticity\" as the \"thrownness\" (\"Geworfenheit\") of individual existence, which is to say we are \"thrown into the world.\" By this, he is not only referring to a brute fact, or the factuality of a concrete historical situation, e.g., \"born in the '80s.\" Facticity is something that already informs and has been taken up in existence, even if it is unnoticed or left unattended. As such, facticity is not something we come across and directly behold. In moods, for example, facticity has an enigmatic appearance, which involves both turning toward and away from it. For Heidegger, moods are conditions of thinking and willing to which they must in some way respond. The \"thrownness\" of human existence (or \"Dasein\") is accordingly disclosed through moods.\n\nIn the mid-20th Century works of French existentialists Jean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir, facticity signifies all of the concrete details against the background of which human freedom exists and is limited. For example, these may include the time and place of birth, a language, an environment, an individual's previous choices, as well as the inevitable prospect of their death. For example: currently, the situation of a person who is born without legs precludes their freedom to walk on the beach; if future medicine were to develop a method of growing new legs for that person, their facticity might no longer exclude this activity.\n\nIt is a term that takes on a more specialized meaning in 20th century continental philosophy, especially in phenomenology and existentialism, including Edmund Husserl, Martin Heidegger, Jean-Paul Sartre, Maurice Merleau-Ponty and Theodor Adorno. Recent philosophers such as Giorgio Agamben, Jean-Luc Nancy, and François Raffoul have taken up the notion of facticity in new ways.\n\nFacticity plays a key part in Quentin Meillassoux's philosophical project to challenge the thought-world relationship of correlationism. It is defined by him as “the absence of reason for any reality; in other words, the impossibility of providing an ultimate ground for the existence of any being.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21339283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21339283", "title": "Food competition", "text": "Food competition\n\nFood or drink competitions reward products primarily for their \"gustative worth\" in the form of an award or a medal. These competitions can be classified into different categories, and most awards are product-specific, such as for wines, beers, and cheeses. Others focus on local, regional and/or national products. Finally, the international competitions test all kinds of foods and drinks available to consumers on a retail basis. Wine is probably the most tested drink, followed by beer and spirits.\n\nThere is a variety of such food and drink competitions worldwide, where the taste and quality of products are assessed. Most evaluations are carried out blind, sometimes complemented by laboratory analysis. The jury usually consists of a panel of different types of \"experts\" in tastings such as chefs or sommeliers. \n\nThe history of degustation tests is unclear; however, one of the earliest taste awards recorded for drinks is the Brewing Industry International Awards, dating back to 1888. For food, Monde Selection is the oldest award recorded, first run in 1961. Since then, as the variety of food products on the market has grown, so has the number of competitions and evaluations.\n\nMonde Selection states that \"This bronze, silver, gold or grand gold quality label can be compared to the quality stars of a hotel or those of the Michelin Guide.\" However, whilst both processes are anonymous, Michelin chooses the hotels and restaurants it reviews and pays for everything. Only products who pay the Euro 1,100 entry fee are reviewed by Monde Selection. Unlike Olympic gold, silver and bronze medals, where only one of each is awarded per event, there are no limits to how many can be awarded in each category. Other competitions use a similar business model.\n\nMost awarding organizations charge an entry fee. Alternatively, for some awards, producers or retailers pay a fee only if their products are awarded and/or they decide to communicate about the award (payment for the right to show the award on packaging). \n\nIn both cases, one might think that these recognitions can be bought. However, tastings are carried out independently and are blind-tested, where judges focus exclusively on sensory (organoleptic) features, such as taste, olfaction, vision, aspect, mouth-feel, after-taste, without being influenced by packaging, branding or marketing. Of course, only producers who pay the entry fee can make use of any award made.\n\nThese are all pay to enter:\n\n"}
{"id": "18758496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18758496", "title": "Guru Vandana", "text": "Guru Vandana\n\nGuru Vandana means “Reverence for the Teacher” – it is the thanksgiving from a student to a teacher, expressing his or her gratitude. The Guru Vandana program provides a platform for students to honor their teachers for imparting knowledge and wisdom to them.\n\nThe concept of Guru is as old as humanity itself. Primarily, the word Guru means a 'teacher' and as such it is a universal concept based on the idea of transmitting knowledge from a person, who knows something, to an ignorant student or disciple. In an extended view, a Guru can also be a priest, a rabbi, a master, a school teacher, even a father or a mother.\nGuru does not mean a teacher imparting formal training but a person who contributes to the overall development and learning of an individual.\n\nGuru transforms his disciple through his presence and spiritual knowledge. According to RamaKrishna Prarahamsa Spiritual knowledge can not be attained completely by reading books. But for obtaining complete spiritual enlightenment Guru’s presence is a must. Only when there is a strong bond between Guru and Shishya spiritual enlightenment might takes place.\n\nOrigins of Guru Shishya Parampara\n\nThus our great sanathana dharma tradition has been enriched by the GURU-SISHYA relationship. Lord Rama's greatness lay in His relationship with His most loyal disciple HANUMAN who taught the essence of Ramanamamritim. Lord Krishna gave us the Bhagavad Gita, thanks to his devoted and most trusted disciple Arjuna. Saint Ramakrishna Paramahamsa gave to the world Swami Vivekananda who in turn gave to the world the Ramakrishna Mission, embodying the soul of India. Saint Thyagaraja, an avatar of Sage Valmiki, composed hundreds of soulful Krithis in praise of God. Two Krithis, in particular, refer to the GURU'S role in guiding the seeker on the right path. Guru leka in 'Gowrimanohari' raga is a Krithi in which the Saint of Thiruvaiyar sings how one who is trapped in the jungle of desire, can come out of it with help of the right Guru. Saint Thyagaraja says however learned and good a person might be, life would be meaningless without the guidance of a Satguru. In another Krithi, Sri Naradamuni Gururaya ganti in Bhairavi raga, Thyagaraja explains how Satguru Smaranam helps one in getting rid of ignorance.\n\nAmerican Hindu Education Foundation (HEF) had conducted the program in Houston in which over 30 teachers and a principal were honored by students. Children from Houston Balagokulams area picked up their favorite teachers. Acharya Premchand Sridhar of Arya Samaj Houston presided over the program. The program started with Sridhar lighting the lamp and it was followed by cultural programs and with the explanation of Hindu Concept of Gurus. After the felicitation of teachers Veda Vrinda group chanted the section of the Taittariya Upanishad known as the Vedic Commencement Address. Columbus chapter of HEF is planning to conduct similar program in October 2008.\n\nGuruvandana is also performed by disciples to spiritual masters. During GuruVandana program GuruGita is recited by disciple to honor his guru. GuruGita forms section of Skanda Purana. In Bangalore Guruvandana was offered to Sankaracharya of Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam, Sri Jayendra Saraswathi. Despite rains lots of people gathered in Malleshwaram to felicitate their Spiritual Guru. In ISKCON temples Guruvandana is performed for spiritual Guru Srila Prabhupada throughout the year.\n\nApart from Hinduism Guru-Shishya concept is followed in other religions like Jain, Sikh, Buddhism. In fact the word Sikh has origins from Sanskrit 'shishya'. Jains celebrate Guru Vandana as part of their rituals.\n\n"}
{"id": "1555604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1555604", "title": "Gynandromorphism", "text": "Gynandromorphism\n\nA gynandromorph is an organism that contains both male and female characteristics. The term \"gynandromorph\", from Greek \"gyne\" female, \"andro\" male, and \"morphé\" form, is mainly used in entomology. These organisms are notable in butterflies, moths and other insects, where both male and female body parts can be distinguished physically because of sexual dimorphism.\n\nGynandromorphism has been observed in numerous animal species, e.g., crustaceans such as lobsters and crabs, many bird species. A clear example in birds involves gynandromorphic zebra finch. These birds have lateralised brain structures in the face of a common steroid signal, providing strong evidence for a non-hormonal primary sex mechanism regulating brain differentiation.\n\nA gynandromorph can have bilateral asymmetry—one side female and one side male. Alternatively, the distribution of male and female tissue can be more haphazard.\n\nBilateral gynandromorphy arises very early in development, typically when the organism has between 8 and 64 cells. Later stages produce a more random pattern.\n\nThe cause of this phenomenon is typically, but not always, an event in mitosis during early development. While the organism contains only a few cells, one of the dividing cells does not split its sex chromosomes typically. This leads to one of the two cells having sex chromosomes that cause male development and the other cell having chromosomes that cause female development. For example, an XY cell undergoing mitosis duplicates its chromosomes, becoming XXYY. Usually this cell would divide into two XY cells, but in rare occasions the cell may divide into an X cell and an XYY cell. If this happens early in development, then a large portion of the cells are X and a large portion are XYY. Since X and XYY dictate different sexes, the organism has tissue that is female and tissue that is male.\n\nA developmental network theory of how gynandromorphs develop from a single cell based on internetwork links between parental allelic chromosomes is given in. The major types of gynandromorphs, bilateral, polar and oblique are computationally modeled. Many other possible gynandromorph combinations are computationally modeled, including predicted morphologies yet to be discovered. The article relates gynandromorph developmental control networks to how species may form. The models are based on a computational model of bilateral symmetry.\n\nGynandromorphs occasionally afford a powerful tool in genetic, developmental, and behavioral analyses. In \"Drosophila melanogaster\", for instance, they provided evidence that male courtship behavior originates in the brain, that males can distinguish conspecific females from males by the scent or some other characteristic of the posterior, dorsal, integument of females, that the germ cells originate in the posterior-most region of the blastoderm, and that somatic components of the gonads originate in the mesodermal region of the fourth and fifth abdominal segment.\n\nIn his autobiography, \"Speak, Memory\", the writer and lepidopterist Vladimir Nabokov describes a gynandromorph butterfly, male on one side, female on the other, that he caught as a youth on his family's Russian estate.\n\nIn Kim Stanley Robinson's novel, \"2312\", some people choose to turn themselves into functional gynandromorphs. For example, the main protagonist, Swan Er Hong, is a gynandromorph. She was born a female, identifies herself as one, and mothered children. But she also fathered children, after acquiring male reproductive organs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7702996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7702996", "title": "Hughes v Lord Advocate", "text": "Hughes v Lord Advocate\n\nThe case's main significance is that, after the shift within the common law of negligence from strict liability to a reasonable standard of care, this case advocated a middle way, namely: \nThis idea was neither developed nor expanded upon, and only one year later the claimant in \"Doughty v Turner Manufacturing\" obtained no remedy \"via\" this \"middle way\". However, the case was followed in subsequent cases on occupiers' liability.\n\nOne evening in November 1958 two boys aged 8 and 10 were walking down Russell Road, Edinburgh where some Post Office workers were repairing cables under the street. The men had opened a manhole and had erected a weather tent over it, with an access ladder inside. From mid-afternoon onwards, the tent had four red paraffin warning lamps. The workmen left around 5pm for a tea break nearby; before leaving, they withdrew the ladder, leaving it outside the tent.\n\nWhile the workmen were out, the boys arrived and started meddling with the equipment. They picked up one of the lamps and entered the tent. They took the ladder and proceeded to explore the manhole, after which they safely climbed out again. The younger boy tripped over the lamp, which fell into the manhole and broke. The paraffin leaked and vaporised, causing an explosion with flames reaching up to thirty feet. The impact of the blast caused the 8-year old to fall into the hole and suffer severe burn injuries.\n\nThe question arose whether the Post Office workers had been negligent in leaving the site unattended with the lamps burning. Under Scots law, they owed a duty of reasonable care to prevent the site becoming an \"allurement\" for the boys; had they discharged this duty? On the other hand, the children were trespasser and possibly contributorily negligence. A crucial issue was the likelihood (or foreseeability) of the presence of children on Russell Road, and whether the explosion causing the serious burn injuries was of \"different type than that could have been foreseeable\".\n\nThe court of first instance, the First Division of the Court of Session, limited the liability of the Post Office on the grounds that although the danger to children was foreseeable the accident itself was not foreseeable. The defence had argued that the boys were not only trespassers but also contributorily negligeny, but the court responded that the Post Office did not have any exclusive interest in the middle of the road to support a claim of trespass; and taking into consideration the youth of the boy, it was agreed that he was NOT contributorily negligence; and these points were dropped on appeal to the House of Lords).\n\nLord Jenkins addressed the duty of issue of care established by Lord Atkin in \"Donoghue v. Stevenson,\", saying: \"the Post Office had brought on the public highway apparatus capable of constituting a source of danger to passer-by ... It was therefore their duty that such passerby, \"neighbour\" in the language of \"Donoghue v. Stevenson\", were, so far as reasonably practicable, protected from the various obstacles or allurements, which the workmen had brought to the site. It is clear that the safety precautions taken by the Post Office did not in this instance measure up to Lord Atkin's test.\"\n\nLord Morris stated that \"exercising an ordinary, and certainly not an over-exacting, degree of prevention the workmen should have decided, when the tea-break came, that someone had better be left in charge who could repel the intrusion of inquisitive children,\" thereby casting doubt that the workers had discharged their duty of care.\n\nIn both the First Division and in the House of Lords, the defence argued that it was unforeseeable that children might be on Russell Road, \"a quiet road, some four hundred yards away from any houses\". Lord Morris opined (following the judgement of Lord Ordinary) that \"if, of, course, there was no likelihood that children might appear, different considerations would apply. But children did appear, and I find no reason to differ from the conclusion of the Lord Ordinary that the presence of children in the immediate vicinity of the shelter was reasonably to be anticipated.\"\n\nLord Guest declared that the burden of proof that the presence of children lay with the respondent; and on the facts there was insufficient evidence to do this. Lord Guest accepted that it was reasonable to anticipate the danger that might arise by meddling children, and that that, \"... the normal dangers of such children falling into the manhole and injured by a lamp were such that a reasonable man would not have ignored them.\"\n\nIt was accepted that the explosion causing the burns was a result of paraffin leaking from the lamp. According to Lord Reid, the boy's injuries from burns was foreseeable. Although the extent of the injury of burn was greater than might have been expected, this was no defence. However, if the injury were of a different kind than the foreseeable type the defender might have escaped liability.\n\nLord Reid continued that as the cause of the accident – the explosion from paraffin lamp – was known, it left no scope to allege the accident was caused from some unknown source, rather than the fault of respondent. Lord Reid concluded that the accident in question \"was but a variant of foreseeable\" and it mattered not it may have arisen in an unforeseeable manner.\n\nLord Jenkins agreed, finding no justification to hold someone liable if the accident had occurred from the burning of lamp but not if the lamp had exploded.\n\nLord Morris agreed, saying that the injury suffered by the boy was of a higher degree, but was \"of the kind or type of accident which was foreseeable\". He said the respondent \"should not escape liability just because they could not foresee the exact way\" in which the boy might play with the equipment, or the way in which he might get hurt. Allowing the appeal, Lord Morris said there was a duty owed by the respondent to safeguard the boy against the type or kind of occurrence which in fact happened and which resulted in his injuries, and the defenders are not absolved from liability because they didn't envisage \"the precise concatenation of circumstances which lead up to the accident.\"\n\nLord Guest pointed out that for making a coherent chain of causation it is not necessary to follow the minute details leading up to the accident to be reasonably foreseeable, but only that \"the type of accident caused was of a foreseeable type\". He was of the view that the lower courts wrongly gave more emphasis on the fact on explosion; to Lord Guest it was a non-essential element. He gave more emphasis on the fact whether burning of paraffin outside the lamp was a reasonable foreseeable event. The lower courts had already concluded these events as a reasonable foreseeable event, but they were of the view the explosion was an unforeseeable event. Lord Guest argued this as a \"fallacious\" claim. Lord Guest concluded that the accident and the injuries sustained by the boys should have been reasonably foreseen by Post Office employees, who were in breach of duty to take adequate protection against the accident.\n\nLord Pearce cited the case of \"The Wagon Mound\" which held that a person is not liable if the accident is of a different type than the type which was foreseen by the person. It would be unjust to check each and every details of the foreseeability test too minutely when the case deals with things that can be allurement to children leads to an accident and hard to foresee the exact way in which the accident may take place.\n\nIn sum, all the judges allowed the boy's appeal. The decision was followed in \"Jolley v Sutton London Borough Council\",\n\n(For a similar case arising under US law, see \"Palsgraf v. Long Island Railroad\", a case which had been influential upon the court in \"Donoghue v Stevenson\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5358044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358044", "title": "Human beings in Buddhism", "text": "Human beings in Buddhism\n\nHumans in Buddhism (Sanskrit , Pali ) are the subjects of an extensive commentarial literature that examines the nature and qualities of a human life from the point of view of humans' ability to achieve enlightenment. In Buddhism, humans are just one type of sentient being, that is a being with a mindstream. In Sanskrit Manushya means an Animal with a mind. In Sanskrit the word Manusmriti associated with Manushya was used to describe knowledge through memory. The word Muun or Maan means mind. Mind is collection of past experience with an ability of memory or smriti. Mind is considered as a animal with a disease that departs a soul from its universal enlightened infinitesimal behavior to the finite miserable fearful behavior that fluctuates between the state of heaven and hell before it is extinguished back to its infinitesimal behavior. \n\nIn Buddhism, humans have a very special status: only a human can attain enlightenment as a fully enlightened Buddha. Enlightenment as an arhat can be attained from the realms of the Śuddhāvāsa deities. A bodhisattva can appear in many different types of lives, for instance as an animal or as a deva. Buddhas, however, are always human.\n\nThe status of life as a human, at first is seen as very important. In the hierarchy of Buddhist cosmology it is low but not entirely at the bottom. It is not intrinsically marked by extremes of happiness or suffering, but all the states of consciousness in the universe, from hellish suffering to divine joy to serene tranquility can be experienced within the human world.\n\nHumans can be seen as highly favored, in that they have an immediate reason to seek out the Dharma and yet also have the means to listen to it and follow it. Among the lower realms, Pretas (aka hungry ghosts), and dwellers in the Narakas (Buddhist hell(s)) are gripped by pain and fear, and can only endure their lot but cannot better themselves. Animals are intellectually unable to understand the Dharma in full. The way of life of the Asuras is dominated by violence and antithetical to the teachings of the Dharma. Most of the Brahmas and Devas simply enjoy reaping the fruits of their past actions and think that they are immortal and forever to be happy and so they don't try to practice the Dharma. When their past karmas have all had their result, these devas will fall into lower worlds and suffer again. The lowest sorts of devas deal with strife, love, and loss just as humans do, but even so they lack the spur of imminent mortality that can lead humans to seek, not merely a better future life, but an escape from altogether. However, there are stories of beings in these realms deciding to practice and reaching enlightenment.\n\nFor this reason, life in the world of humans is known as \"the precious human rebirth\". Born close to the pivot point of happiness and suffering, humans have a unique capacity for moral choices with long-term significance.\n\nThe human rebirth is said to be extremely rare. The Majjhima Nikaya (129 Balapandita Sutta) compares it to a wooden cattle-yoke floating on the waves of the sea, tossed this way and that by the winds and currents. The likelihood of a blind turtle, rising from the depths of the ocean to the surface once in a hundred years, putting its head through the hole in the yoke is considered greater than that of a being in the animal realm, hungry ghost realm or hell realm achieving rebirth as a human. This is because, according to the sutta, in these realms there is no Dhamma (Sanskrit Dharma), no practicing what is right, no doing what is wholesome, and no performing of merit. However it is generally implied that if one is already living as a human they will continue to be reborn in the human world based on good works and so they will be one again and again as long as they are moral and good in the ways described in Buddhist rules regardless of whether or not they are Buddhist themselves. The idea is that one must be good and moral because falling below the human realm is dangerous as the odds of one becoming a human again with any great frequency is slim.\n\nAmong humans there are also better and worse conditions for attaining enlightenment. Besides being born as a human, the favorable conditions for obtaining enlightenment are:\n\nJust as it is difficult to obtain birth as a human, it is also difficult to be born at the time when a Buddha's teaching is still available. Out of the infinite \"kalpas\" (incredibly long periods) in time, most have no Buddhas appearing in them at all. The present kalpa is called \"Fortunate\" because it is said that 1,000 Buddhas will appear in it, something that is very unusual.\n\nFor this reason, Buddhist teachers say that one's present condition as a human should be valued very highly, and not allowed to slide by, as the combination of existence as a human and the presence of a Buddha's teaching may not come again for a very long time. Any human, in this view, who finds himself or herself in a position to learn the Dharma, would be remiss if he or she did not take advantage of it. This view also stands in contrast to those who would claim that, if one is to be reborn multiple times, there is no need to worry about one's actions in this life as they can always be amended in the future; rather, there is no assurance that in a long series of lives one will ever obtain the right circumstances for enlightenment, so it is important to seize the day.\n\nWith regard to a fortunate human life, Pabongkhapa Déchen Nyingpo said: \"Instead of feeling so much regret when we lose our money, we should develop regret when we waste our human life.\" \n\nAccording to the Aggañña Sutta (DN.27), humans originated at the beginning of the current kalpa as deva-like beings reborn from the Ābhāsvara deva-realm. They were then beings shining in their own light, capable of moving through the air without mechanical aid, living for a very long time, and not requiring sustenance.\n\nOver time, they acquired a taste for physical nutriment, and as they consumed it, their bodies became heavier and more like human bodies; they lost their ability to shine, and began to acquire differences in their appearance. Their length of life decreased, they differentiated into two sexes and became sexually active. Following this, greed, theft and violence arose among them, and they consequently established social distinctions and government and elected a king to rule them, called Mahāsammata, \"the great appointed one\". Some of the kings of India in the Buddha´s day claimed descent from him.\n\nIn the visionary picture of the human realm presented in Buddhist cosmology, humans live on four continents which are, relatively speaking, small islands in a vast ocean that surrounds the axial world-mountain of Sumeru, and fills most of the Earth's surface. The ocean is in turn surrounded by a circular mountain wall called (Sanskrit) or (Pāli) which marks the horizontal limit of the earth. Because of the immenseness of the ocean, the continents cannot be reached from each other by ordinary sailing vessels, although in the past, when the cakravartin kings ruled, communication between the continents was possible by means of the treasure called the cakraratna (Pāli cakkaratana), which a cakravartin and his retinue could use to fly through the air between the continents.\n\nThe four continents are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "880112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=880112", "title": "Identity (social science)", "text": "Identity (social science)\n\nIn psychology, identity is the qualities, beliefs, personality, looks and/or expressions that make a person (self-identity) or group (particular social category or social group). Categorizing identity can be positive or destructive.\n\nA \"psychological identity\" relates to self-image (one's mental model of oneself), self-esteem, and individuality. Consequently, Weinreich gives the definition:\n\"A person's identity is defined as the totality of one's self-construal, in which how one construes oneself in the present expresses the continuity between how one construes oneself as one was in the past and how one construes oneself as one aspires to be in the future\"; this allows for definitions of aspects of identity, such as: \"One's ethnic identity is defined as that part of the totality of one's self-construal made up of those dimensions that express the continuity between one's construal of past ancestry and one's future aspirations in relation to ethnicity\".\n\nGender identity forms an important part of identity in psychology, as it dictates to a significant degree how one views oneself both as a person and in relation to other people, ideas and nature. Other aspects of identity, such as racial, religious, ethnic, occupational… etc. may also be more or less significant – or significant in some situations but not in others (Weinreich & Saunderson 2003 pp 26–34). In cognitive psychology, the term \"identity\" refers to the capacity for self-reflection and the awareness of self .\n\nSociology places some explanatory weight on the concept of role-behavior. The notion of \"identity negotiation\" may arise from the learning of social roles through personal experience. Identity negotiation is a process in which a person negotiates with society at large regarding the meaning of his or her identity.\n\nPsychologists most commonly use the term \"identity\" to describe \"personal identity\", or the idiosyncratic things that make a person unique. Sociologists, however, often use the term to describe \"social identity\", or the collection of group memberships that define the individual. However, these uses are not proprietary, and each discipline may use either concept and each discipline may combine both concepts when considering a person's identity.\n\nThe description or representation of individual and group identity is a central task for psychologists, sociologists and anthropologists and those of other disciplines where \"identity\" needs to be mapped and defined. How should one describe the identity of another, in ways which encompass both their idiosyncratic qualities and their group memberships or identifications, both of which can shift according to circumstance? Following on from the work of Kelly, Erikson, Tajfel and others, Weinreich's Identity Structure Analysis (ISA), is \"a structural representation of the individual's existential experience, in which the relationships between self and other agents are organised in relatively stable structures over time … with the emphasis on the socio-cultural milieu in which self relates to other agents and institutions\" (Weinreich and Saunderson, (eds) 2003, p1). Using constructs drawn from the salient discourses of the individual, the group and cultural norms, the practical operationalisation of ISA provides a methodology that maps how these are used by the individual, applied across time and milieus by the \"situated self\" to appraise self and other agents and institutions (for example, resulting in the individual's evaluation of self and significant others and institutions).\n\nErik Erikson (1902–1994) became one of the earliest psychologists to take an explicit interest in identity. The Eriksonian framework rests upon a distinction among the psychological sense of continuity, known as the \"ego identity\" (sometimes identified simply as \"the self\"); the personal idiosyncrasies that separate one person from the next, known as the \"personal identity\"; and the collection of social roles that a person might play, known as either the \"social identity\" or the \"cultural identity\". Erikson's work, in the psychodynamic tradition, aimed to investigate the process of identity formation across a lifespan. Progressive strength in the ego identity, for example, can be charted in terms of a series of stages in which identity is formed in response to increasingly sophisticated challenges. The process of forming a viable sense of identity for the culture is conceptualized as an adolescent task, and those who do not manage a resynthesis of childhood identifications are seen as being in a state of 'identity diffusion' whereas those who retain their initially given identities unquestioned have 'foreclosed' identities (Weinreich & Saunderson 2003 p7-8). On some readings of Erikson, the development of a strong ego identity, along with the proper integration into a stable society and culture, lead to a stronger sense of identity in general. Accordingly, a deficiency in either of these factors may increase the chance of an identity crisis or confusion .\n\nAlthough the self is distinct from identity, the literature of self-psychology can offer some insight into how identity is maintained . From the vantage point of self-psychology, there are two areas of interest: the processes by which a self is formed (the \"I\"), and the actual content of the schemata which compose the self-concept (the \"Me\"). In the latter field, theorists have shown interest in relating the self-concept to self-esteem, the differences between complex and simple ways of organizing self-knowledge, and the links between those organizing principles and the processing of information .\n\nThe \"Neo-Eriksonian\" \"identity status\" paradigm emerged in later years, driven largely by the work of James Marcia. This paradigm focuses upon the twin concepts of \"exploration\" and \"commitment\". The central idea is that any individual's sense of identity is determined in large part by the explorations and commitments that he or she makes regarding certain personal and social traits. It follows that the core of the research in this paradigm investigates the degrees to which a person has made certain explorations, and the degree to which he or she displays a commitment to those explorations.\n\nA person may display either relative weakness or relative strength in terms of both exploration and commitments. When assigned categories, four possible permutations result: identity diffusion, identity foreclosure, identity moratorium, and identity achievement. Diffusion is when a person lacks both exploration in life and interest in committing even to those unchosen roles that he or she occupies. Foreclosure is when a person has not chosen extensively in the past, but seems willing to commit to some relevant values, goals, or roles in the future. Moratorium is when a person displays a kind of flightiness, ready to make choices but unable to commit to them. Finally, achievement is when a person makes identity choices and commits to them.\n\nWeinreich's identity variant similarly includes the categories of identity diffusion, foreclosure and crisis, but with a somewhat different emphasis. Here, with respect to identity diffusion for example, an optimal level is interpreted as the norm, as it is unrealistic to expect an individual to resolve all their conflicted identifications with others; therefore we should be alert to individuals with levels which are much higher or lower than the norm – highly diffused individuals are classified as diffused, and those with low levels as foreclosed or defensive. (Weinreich & Saunderson, 2003, pp 65–67; 105–106). Weinreich applies the identity variant in a framework which also allows for the transition from one to another by way of biographical experiences and resolution of conflicted identifications situated in various contexts – for example, an adolescent going through family break-up may be in one state, whereas later in a stable marriage with a secure professional role may be in another. Hence, though there is continuity, there is also development and change. (Weinreich & Saunderson, 2003, pp 22–23).\nLaing's definition of identity closely follows Erikson's, in emphasising the past, present and future components of the experienced self. He also develops the concept of the \"metaperspective of self\", i.e. the self's perception of the other's view of self, which has been found to be extremely important in clinical contexts such as anorexia nervosa. (Saunderson and O'Kane, 2005). Harré also conceptualises components of self/identity – the \"person\" (the unique being I am to myself and others) along with aspects of self (including a totality of attributes including beliefs about one's characteristics including life history), and the personal characteristics displayed to others.\n\nAt a general level, self-psychology is compelled to investigate the question of how the personal self relates to the social environment. To the extent that these theories place themselves in the tradition of \"psychological\" social psychology, they focus on explaining an individual's actions within a group in terms of mental events and states. However, some \"sociological\" social psychology theories go further by attempting to deal with the issue of identity at both the levels of individual cognition and of collective behavior.\n\nMany people gain a sense of positive self-esteem from their identity groups, which furthers a sense of community and belonging. Another issue that researchers have attempted to address is the question of why people engage in discrimination, i.e., why they tend to favor those they consider a part of their \"in-group\" over those considered to be outsiders. Both questions have been given extensive attention by researchers working in the social identity tradition. For example, in work relating to social identity theory it has been shown that merely crafting cognitive distinction between in- and out-groups can lead to subtle effects on people's evaluations of others .\n\nDifferent social situations also compel people to attach themselves to different self-identities which may cause some to feel marginalized, switch between different groups and self-identifications, or reinterpret certain identity components. These different selves lead to constructed images dichotomized between what people want to be (the ideal self) and how others see them (the limited self). Educational background and Occupational status and roles significantly influence identity formation in this regard.\n\nAnother issue of interest in social psychology is related to the notion that there are certain \"identity formation strategies\" which a person may use to adapt to the social world. developed a typology which investigated the different manners of behavior that individuals may have. (3) Their typology includes:\n\nKenneth Gergen formulated additional classifications, which include the \"strategic manipulator\", the \"pastiche personality\", and the \"relational self\". The strategic manipulator is a person who begins to regard all senses of identity merely as role-playing exercises, and who gradually becomes alienated from his or her social \"self\". The pastiche personality abandons all aspirations toward a true or \"essential\" identity, instead viewing social interactions as opportunities to play out, and hence become, the roles they play. Finally, the relational self is a perspective by which persons abandon all sense of exclusive self, and view all sense of identity in terms of social engagement with others. For Gergen, these strategies follow one another in phases, and they are linked to the increase in popularity of postmodern culture and the rise of telecommunications technology.\n\nAnthropologists have most frequently employed the term 'identity' to refer to this idea of selfhood in a loosely Eriksonian way (Erikson 1972) properties based on the uniqueness and individuality which makes a person distinct from others. Identity became of more interest to anthropologists with the emergence of modern concerns with ethnicity and social movements in the 1970s. This was reinforced by an appreciation, following the trend in sociological thought, of the manner in which the individual is affected by and contributes to the overall social context. At the same time, the Eriksonian approach to identity remained in force, with the result that identity has continued until recently to be used in a largely socio-historical way to refer to qualities of sameness in relation to a person's connection to others and to a particular group of people.\n\nThe first favours a primordialist approach which takes the sense of self and belonging to a collective group as a fixed thing, defined by objective criteria such as common ancestry and common biological characteristics. The second, rooted in social constructionist theory, takes the view that identity is formed by a predominantly political choice of certain characteristics. In so doing, it questions the idea that identity is a natural given, characterised by fixed, supposedly objective criteria. Both approaches need to be understood in their respective political and historical contexts, characterised by debate on issues of class, race and ethnicity. While they have been criticized, they continue to exert an influence on approaches to the conceptualisation of identity today.\n\nThese different explorations of 'identity' demonstrate how difficult a concept it is to pin down. Since identity is a virtual thing, it is impossible to define it empirically. Discussions of identity use the term with different meanings, from fundamental and abiding sameness, to fluidity, contingency, negotiated and so on. Brubaker and Cooper note a tendency in many scholars to confuse identity as a category of practice and as a category of analysis . Indeed, many scholars demonstrate a tendency to follow their own preconceptions of identity, following more or less the frameworks listed above, rather than taking into account the mechanisms by which the concept is crystallised as reality. In this environment, some analysts, such as Brubaker and Cooper, have suggested doing away with the concept completely . Others, by contrast, have sought to introduce alternative concepts in an attempt to capture the dynamic and fluid qualities of human social self-expression. Hall (1992, 1996), for example, suggests treating identity as a process, to take into account the reality of diverse and ever-changing social experience. Some scholars have introduced the idea of identification, whereby identity is perceived as made up of different components that are 'identified' and interpreted by individuals. The construction of an individual sense of self is achieved by personal choices regarding who and what to associate with. Such approaches are liberating in their recognition of the role of the individual in social interaction and the construction of identity.\n\nAnthropologists have contributed to the debate by shifting the focus of research: One of the first challenges for the researcher wishing to carry out empirical research in this area is to identify an appropriate analytical tool. The concept of boundaries is useful here for demonstrating how identity works. In the same way as Barth, in his approach to ethnicity, advocated the critical focus for investigation as being \"the ethnic boundary that defines the group rather than the cultural stuff that it encloses\" (1969:15), social anthropologists such as Cohen and Bray have shifted the focus of analytical study from identity to the boundaries that are used for purposes of identification. If identity is a kind of virtual site in which the dynamic processes and markers used for identification are made apparent, boundaries provide the framework on which this virtual site is built. They concentrated on how the idea of community belonging is differently constructed by individual members and how individuals within the group conceive ethnic boundaries.\n\nAs a non-directive and flexible analytical tool, the concept of boundaries helps both to map and to define the changeability and mutability that are characteristic of people's experiences of the self in society. While identity is a volatile, flexible and abstract 'thing', its manifestations and the ways in which it is exercised are often open to view. Identity is made evident through the use of markers such as language, dress, behaviour and choice of space, whose effect depends on their recognition by other social beings. Markers help to create the boundaries that define similarities or differences between the marker wearer and the marker perceivers, their effectiveness depends on a shared understanding of their meaning. In a social context, misunderstandings can arise due to a misinterpretation of the significance of specific markers. Equally, an individual can use markers of identity to exert influence on other people without necessarily fulfilling all the criteria that an external observer might typically associate with such an abstract identity.\n\nBoundaries can be inclusive or exclusive depending on how they are perceived by other people. An exclusive boundary arises, for example, when a person adopts a marker that imposes restrictions on the behaviour of others. An inclusive boundary is created, by contrast, by the use of a marker with which other people are ready and able to associate. At the same time, however, an inclusive boundary will also impose restrictions on the people it has included by limiting their inclusion within other boundaries. An example of this is the use of a particular language by a newcomer in a room full of people speaking various languages. Some people may understand the language used by this person while others may not. Those who do not understand it might take the newcomer's use of this particular language merely as a neutral sign of identity. But they might also perceive it as imposing an exclusive boundary that is meant to mark them off from her. On the other hand, those who do understand the newcomer's language could take it as an inclusive boundary, through which the newcomer associates herself with them to the exclusion of the other people present. Equally, however, it is possible that people who do understand the newcomer but who also speak another language may not want to speak the newcomer's language and so see her marker as an imposition and a negative boundary. It is possible that the newcomer is either aware or unaware of this, depending on whether she herself knows other languages or is conscious of the plurilingual quality of the people there and is respectful of it or not.\n\nHegel rejects Cartesian philosophy, supposing that we do not always doubt and that we do not always have consciousness. In his famous Master-Slave Dialectic Hegel attempts to show that the mind (\"Geist\") only become conscious when it encounters another mind. One Geist attempts to control the other, since up until that point it has only encountered tools for its use. A struggle for domination ensues, leading to Lordship and Bondage.\n\nNietzsche, who was influenced by Hegel in some ways but rejected him in others, called for a rejection of \"Soul Atomism\" in The Gay Science. Nietzsche supposed that the Soul was an interaction of forces, an ever-changing thing far from the immortal soul posited by both Descartes and the Christian tradition. His \"Construction of the Soul\" in many ways resembles modern social constructivism.\n\nHeidegger, following Nietzsche, did work on identity. For Heidegger, people only really form an identity after facing death. It's death that allows people to choose from the social constructed meanings in their world, and assemble a finite identity out of seemingly infinite meanings. For Heidegger, most people never escape the \"they\", a socially constructed identity of \"how one ought to be\" created mostly to try to escape death through ambiguity.\n\nMany philosophical schools derive from rejecting Hegel, and diverse traditions of acceptance and rejection have developed.\n\nRicoeur has introduced the distinction between the ipse identity (selfhood, 'who am I?') and the idem identity (sameness, or a third-person perspective which objectifies identity) .\n\nThe implications are multiple as various research traditions are now heavily utilizing the lens of identity to examine phenomena. One implication of identity and of identity construction can be seen in occupational settings. This becomes increasing challenging in stigmatized jobs or \"dirty work\" (Hughes, 1951). Tracy and Trethewey (2005) state that \"individuals gravitate toward and turn away from particular jobs depending in part, on the extent to which they validate a \"preferred organizational self\" . Some jobs carry different stigmas or acclaims. In her analysis Tracy uses the example of correctional officers trying to shake the stigma of \"glorified maids\" . \"The process by which people arrive at justifications of and values for various occupational choices.\" Among these are workplace satisfaction and overall quality of life . People in these types of jobs are forced to find ways in order to create an identity they can live with. \"Crafting a positive sense of self at work is more challenging when one's work is considered \"dirty\" by societal standards\" . \"In other words, doing taint management is not just about allowing the employee to feel good in that job. \"If employees must navigate discourses that question the viability of their work, and/ or experience obstacles in managing taint through transforming dirty work into a badge of honor, it is likely they will find blaming the client to be an efficacious route in affirming their identity\" .\n\nIn any case, the concept that an individual has a unique identity developed relatively recently in history. Factors influencing the emphasis on personal identity may include:\n\n\nAn important implication relates to identity change, i.e. the transformation of identity.\n\nContexts include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35871415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35871415", "title": "Jīvitindriya", "text": "Jīvitindriya\n\nJīvitindriya (Sanskrit and Pali) is a Buddhist term translated as \"life faculty\" or \"vitality\". \"Jīvitindriya\" is identified as one of the seven universal mental factors within the Theravada abhidharma teachings. In this context, \"jīvitindriya\" is defined as a mental factor that sustains the life of the citta (mind) and other mental factors it accompanies. The characteristic of jīvitindriya is said to be “ceaseless watching”.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nWithin the Mahayana Buddhist teachings, there are a variety of definitions for \"jīvitindriya\". The \"Dharmaskandhapadashastra\" (an early Abhidharma work of the Sarvastivadin school) defines \"jīvitindriya\" as: a faculty that persists, continues, maintains, animates, and operates what we called sentient beings.\n\nJīvitaṃ means “life”, and indriya means “controlling faculty”.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11366634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11366634", "title": "Katie Hopkins", "text": "Katie Hopkins\n\nKatie Olivia Hopkins (born 13 February 1975) is an English media personality, columnist, radio presenter and businesswoman. She was a contestant in the third series of \"The Apprentice\" in 2007 and following further appearances in the media she became a columnist for British national newspapers. She began writing for \"The Sun\" in 2013 and the \"Daily Mail\"s website \"MailOnline\" from 2015 to 2017. She has also been a presenter for the talk radio station LBC. \n\nHopkins has been accused of racism by journalists, advocacy groups and politicians for her comments about migrants. Her role at LBC was terminated in May 2017 following her comments on Twitter about the Manchester Arena bombing.\n\nIn 2016, \"Mail Online\" was forced to pay £150,000 to a Muslim family whom Hopkins had falsely accused of extremist links. In a 2017 libel case, Hopkins was required to pay £24,000 in damages and £107,000 in legal costs to the left-wing writer Jack Monroe after making defamatory remarks on Twitter. Later in 2017, \"Mail Online\" was forced to pay substantial damages and legal costs to a teacher about whom Hopkins had made false claims. A day before, in late November, it had become known Hopkins' contract with the media outlet had not been renewed. Her final column was published on 5 October 2017. She joined the Canadian far-right website The Rebel Media in January 2018.\n\nKatie Hopkins was born on 13 February 1975, in Barnstaple, Devon. Her father was an electrical engineer for the local Electricity Board and her mother was a bank teller. She has an older sister. She was raised in Bideford, attended a private convent school from age 3 to 16, played sports and learned to play the piano and violin. As a child she believed she was \"going to be the colonel of the forces. I loved the military. I loved the discipline, the rigour, the big shouty men.\"\n\nHopkins told Sathnam Sanghera of \"The Times\" in June 2015 that she applied to study Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE) at Magdalen College, Oxford. She passed the Oxford University entrance exam, but was rejected at the interview stage. Disappointed, and putting the failure down to an absence of \"a bit of coaching\", she instead studied economics at the University of Exeter. She felt that her time at university was \"redeemed\" by her sponsorship from the British Army's Intelligence Corps, and spent her weekends with the Officers' Training Corps. This she found \"really fun, lying around in forests with guns having a brilliant time\".\n\nShe completed her military training at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst, but suffered an epileptic seizure during the final passing-out ceremony, and as a result was unable to take up her commission. Hopkins said she kept her epilepsy secret whilst attending Sandhurst as this would have prevented her from being commissioned. Instead, she joined a business consultancy and moved to Manhattan, New York City, before returning to the UK in 2005. She joined the Met Office as a global brand consultant in September 2006.\n\nHopkins was allowed to take unpaid leave from her job from the Met Office as part of her probationary period of employment to take part in series three of the reality TV show \"The Apprentice\" in 2006. In the format used at that time, contestants in \"The Apprentice\" competed for a £100,000-a-year job working for the businessman Alan Sugar. Hopkins rejected Sugar's offer of a place in the final episode of the programme, citing problems regarding childcare provision for her daughters, and withdrew from the competition at the end of the penultimate task. The episode gained 6.2 million viewers, while the following \"!\" episode, in which Hopkins was interviewed, was watched by 3.1 million.\n\nThroughout her tenure on \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins made several critical comments on camera. The comments were directed at her fellow contestants, viewers of television shopping channels, maternity leave, fake tans, and overweight people. \"Four Weddings and a Funeral\" and \"Notting Hill\" writer Richard Curtis expressed his distaste for Hopkins, jokingly vowing to kill her when he accepted his Fellowship award at the 2007 BAFTA awards. When video clips of her comments about other candidates were shown on \"The Apprentice: You're Fired!\", following up on the main programme, Hopkins explained that they were \"quite funny\". Michelle Mone, the founder of lingerie company Ultimo and a guest on the panel, verbally attacked Hopkins, calling her \"exceptionally selfish\", said she was not to be trusted, and accused her of giving \"businesswomen a bad name\". Sugar was criticised over his questioning of Hopkins about her childcare arrangements. He was accused of violating the 1975 Sex Discrimination Act. The incident received substantial media comment. Sugar argued his case in an interview with GMTV host Fiona Phillips, stating that he was aware of the rules.\n\nIn June 2007, Hopkins lost her job at the Met Office, which said that she did not meet the required standards to complete her probationary period, and confirmed that her performance on \"The Apprentice\" and confessions about her private life were a factor in her dismissal. Hopkins later stated that the media were informed of her dismissal an hour after she was fired. After her appearance on \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins signed two deals to sell her story, one with the \"News of the World\" newspaper and the other with EMAP, the company behind \"Heat\" and \"Grazia\" magazines.\n\nHopkins said in an interview with BBC Radio Kent that she had great respect for Sugar, and that she believed she would have won the programme had she been in the final episode. She also said that the media's attitudes towards her did not affect her but did affect her family. She made a similar claim of hypothetical victory in an interview with Fiona Phillips on the morning of the final \"Apprentice\" episode, although Sugar had said that if she wanted to press on he would fire her, whoever she was competing with. Hopkins told BBC Radio 1 that she had not yet ruled out a media career but expressed interest in starting a business venture.\n\nAfter \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins appeared in an episode of \"8 Out of 10 Cats\", and was a guest star on \"Loose Women\" and \"The Friday Night Project\". In 2007, she presented a \"Five Live Report\" on family life and working mothers for BBC Radio 5 Live, and contributed an article on the same subject to BBC Online.\n\nIn 2007, Hopkins joined the series \"I'm a Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!\" as a replacement for Malcolm McLaren, who dropped out just before the show started. In January 2015, she took part in the Channel 5 reality series \"Celebrity Big Brother\", finishing in second place.\n\nHopkins has appeared twice on \"Question Time\" in the editions of 10 June 2010 and 27 January 2011. She also appeared on the Young Voters' version of \"Question Time\" on 20 October 2010. She appeared on an episode of \"10 O'Clock Live\" on 24 April 2013 alongside Theo Paphitis and Owen Jones to discuss the legacy of the former British prime minister Margaret Thatcher who had died that month, and to debate tax policies and the division of wealth amongst UK citizens.\n\nIn 2015, she deliberately gained and lost weight over the course of several months, in an attempt to show that obese people can diet successfully. Her progress was carefully documented by a camera crew and then played on a programme called \"My Fat Story\" for TLC. Hopkins gained and lost over the course of the programme. TLC claimed an audience figure of 10 million in the UK and US for the programme.\n\nLater that year, she began her own chat show, \"If Katie Hopkins Ruled the World\" on the digital channel TLC. She said she wanted to bring a new variation to chat and panel shows. The series was dropped in December, after the first series, owing to low audience ratings.\n\nFrom April 2016 to May 2017, Hopkins presented a Sunday morning talk show on LBC, a London-based national talk and phone-in radio station. She had previously worked as a guest presenter for the station. \"The snarling facade remained\", wrote Fiona Sturges for \"The Independent\" in April 2015 after one such broadcast. \"But even Hopkins knows when to tone down the panto villain act\". LBC announced Hopkins' departure on 26 May 2017, 'effective immediately', following her comments on Twitter soon after the Manchester Arena bombing, in which Hopkins claimed \"we need a final solution\". Speaking about her departure a few days later on Fox News, she said a deal had been made with LBC not to speak about it, but suggested it was part of a \"silencing\" of people with right-wing views. Following Hopkins' departure, LBC audience figures rose 18%.\n\nHopkins said she is \"pushing back the walls closing in on freedom of speech\" at a Church and Media conference in October 2015. Claiming to be \"the new Jesus\" during her speech, she said: \"I have never apologised for anything I’ve said. I find it very disappointing when people apologise. You should have the positive moral attitude to stand by what you say\".\n\nEarly in her public career, Hopkins wrote a column for Exeter's \"Express & Echo\" newspaper, but her articles ceased after an online poll in October 2007 found 84% of readers wanted the feature to end.\n\nAt the end of October 2013, it emerged that Hopkins had joined \"The Sun\" as a weekly columnist. with the newspaper promoting her as \"Britain's most controversial columnist\". Hopkins in February 2015 defended her remarks and those of her critics, commenting: \"I welcome it because I've had my opinion and it's only right that people have theirs. I welcome the debate and the fact that people are getting involved.\"\n\nShe left \"The Sun\" for the Mail Online website, the online companion to the \"Daily Mail\" in autumn 2015. \"The Daily Telegraph\" contributor Bryony Gordon wrote in April 2015 that media organisations have \"a tipping point here, where the marketing men and women don't want to be associated with reality TV's very own Adolf Hitler. But so far that doesn't seem to have happened.\" The \"Mail\" published a page one article in June 2017 expressing its low opinion of the liberal \"The Guardian\" newspaper, which had attacked it for its coverage of the attack on the Finsbury Park mosque\nand also referred to Hopkins. It \"was a lie\" to say Hopkins wrote for the \"Daily Mail\", it asserted. \"\"The Guardian\" and its writer know that Ms Hopkins has nothing to do with the \"Daily Mail\", but works for Mail Online – a totally separate entity\". The \"Daily Mail\" newspaper and Mail Online are part of the same group, with the same editor or editor-in-chief. Her last column for the \"Mail\" website was published on 5 October 2017. In a late November 2017 statement from her employers to the \"Press Gazette\", it emerged that Hopkins Mail contract had not been renewed by \"mutual consent\". A large number of Tweets from her Twitter account were deleted around the same time.\n\nA few days before, a video was posted online of Hopkins' appearance at the David Horowitz Freedom Center in Florida earlier in November 2017. \"It's such a pleasure to be amongst people that are prepared to fight for their country\" she said, asserting it is \"our time\". She continued: \"We can commit to arm ourselves, not just with the help of the NRA\". In her opinion, there is a \"Muslim mafia\" in certain areas of Britain and \"institutionalised discrimination against whites\" in the UK as a whole.\n\nIn January 2018, Hopkins joined The Rebel Media, a Canadian far-right website, on which Tommy Robinson, founder of the English Defence League, is also a contributor. In her first column on her own Hopkins World outlet, she wrote: \"When so many platforms are under the control of the Saudis, tied to fickle commercial advertisers or beholden to special interests and religious lobbyists, it is a real thrill to find a place for us to speak without censorship\".\n\nHopkins is anti-Islam. After the 2016 Nice truck attack, Hopkins stated \"Islam disgusts me\", declaring the statement was \"entirely rational\" and not Islamophobic. She is in favour of a burqa ban and has labelled Islamic culture as homophobic. In March 2017, Hopkins gave a speech at a David Horowitz Freedom Center event, where she attacked Muslims, declaring a \"Muslim mafia\" controlled areas of Britain, and labelling London Mayor Sadiq Khan as the \"Muslim mayor of Londonistan\". Calling on people to \"fight for your country\" against Muslims, Hopkins appeared to make a call to arms, stating that \"we can commit to arm ourselves, not just with the help of the NRA,\" adding \"get furious and fight back\".\n\nHopkins is anti-multiculturalism. Referencing a so-called \"multicultural mafia\", she has claimed that increased crime is directly linked to it. Criticising Notting Hill Carnival in 2016, she said \"I don't buy multiculturalism at all\", claiming that a \"London bubble\" believed in it and \"the liberal left wing press, the BBC, they love it! They can't get enough of it.\" Following the 2017 London Bridge attack, Hopkins criticised \"Liberals in London\", claiming they \"actually think multiculturalism means we all die together\", and that they were \"so desperately wedded to the multicultural illusion that [they] can only fight those who love the country the most, blame those who are most proud to be British.\"\n\nHopkins pushes the white genocide conspiracy theory. She has contended that immigration and multiculturalism are intended to make white people minorities. \"Yahoo News\" reported it was \"her intention was to ‘expose’ the white genocide\" happening to farmers in South Africa. She also visited to report on 'anti-white racism'.\n\nSince \"The Apprentice\", Hopkins has frequently featured in the media for making controversial remarks, being described in several media outlets as a \"professional troll\". She has described herself as a \"conduit for truth\", declaring what other people think but are too scared to say.\n\nDuring an appearance on ITV's \"This Morning\" in July 2013, Hopkins revealed she would stop her children playing with their classmates based on their given names. She revealed a particular dislike for \"lower class\" names like Charmaine, Chantelle, and Chardonnay, which met with disapproval from co-host Holly Willoughby. Hopkins said that she did not like \"geographical location names\" either. After Willoughby's colleague, Phillip Schofield, pointed out that she had given the name India to one of her daughters, Hopkins asserted that India is \"not related to a place\". A viewers' poll conducted by the \"This Morning\" programme indicated that 91% of respondents disagreed with Hopkins' opinion.\n\nAppearing as a panellist on Channel 5's \"\" in February 2014, she was accused by Terry Christian amongst others of only expressing her controversial opinions to make money from media appearances. Hopkins has said that financial motives are not the reason she speaks out, and received a \"relatively modest\" fee of £300 when she was on \"This Morning\" speaking about children's names.\n\nIn a February 2014 interview with Decca Aitkenhead for \"The Guardian\", Hopkins was asked if she is a snob: \"Oh, definitely yeah, 100%. I think it's really important to be snobby\".\n\nHopkins posted a tweet referring to Scottish life expectancy predictions based upon a 2011 NHS Scotland report, \"Healthy Life Expectancy in Scotland: Update of trends to 2010\". This tweet was posted following a heated debate on Scottish Independence during an edition of \"The Wright Stuff\" on which Hopkins was a panellist. In the wake of the 2013 Glasgow helicopter crash, the tweet raised widespread condemnation among Twitter users. Hopkins retorted \"Following Independence I will only be the Biggest Bitch in England\", and described people's reactions as \"PC tastic\". An online petition to ban Hopkins from shows such as ITV's \"This Morning\" and \"The Wright Stuff\" on Channel 5 gained over 75,000 signatures. Hopkins issued an apology the following Monday, restating that her original remark was in reference to the NHS report and was simply bad timing. ITV said on 5 December 2013 that \"We have no plans for Katie Hopkins to appear on \"This Morning\" at this present time\".\n\nOn 31 December 2014, police announced they were investigating complaints they had received concerning Hopkins' tweets about Pauline Cafferkey, a Scottish aid worker who was diagnosed with Ebola after returning to the UK from Sierra Leone. Hopkins had tweeted: \"Little sweaty jocks, sending us Ebola bombs in the form of sweaty Glaswegians just isn't cricket. Scottish NHS sucks.\" No evidence of criminality was found by the police. On 7 April 2015, Hopkins made a series of tweets suggesting that people with dementia are \"bed blockers\" who take up scarce hospital beds and implied they would be better off dead. Her comments were condemned by leading UK Alzheimer's charities.\n\nAfter five Londoners drowned at Camber Sands in August 2016, Hopkins tweeted a poll mocking the identities of the deceased. Sussex Police reported the tweet to Twitter under the headings of \"abusive or harmful\" and \"disrespectful or offensive\". They decided while the tweet was distasteful it was not criminal. The tweet was deleted.\n\nHopkins objected to Rochdale commemorating National Pakistan Day on 23 March 2015 and claimed to base her objection on a Rochdale sex trafficking case involving nine predominantly Pakistani men and forty-seven white victims. In a series of tweets, she posted images of the felons with the caption \"are these your friends too?\" On 29 March 2015, Hopkins was reported to the police by Labour MP Simon Danczuk for possible race hate crimes. In response, Hopkins said \"I asked fair questions and I think it's important that someone has the balls to speak out\".\n\nOn 17 April 2015, Hopkins wrote a column in \"The Sun\" in comparing migrants to \"cockroaches\" and \"feral humans\" and said they were \"spreading like the norovirus\". She wrote that gunships should be used to stop migrants from crossing the Mediterranean. Her remarks were condemned by the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights, Zeid Ra'ad Al Hussein. In a statement released on 24 April 2015, he urged the UK to \"curb incitement to hatred\" by its \"tabloid newspapers\" and stated that Hopkins used \"language very similar to that employed by Rwanda's \"Kangura\" newspaper and Radio Mille Collines during the run up to the 1994 genocide\", and noted that both media organisations were subsequently convicted by an international tribunal of public incitement to commit genocide.\n\nHopkins' column also drew criticism on Twitter, including from Russell Brand, to whom Hopkins responded by accusing Brand's \"champagne socialist humanity\" of neglecting taxpayers. Simon Usborne, writing in \"The Independent\", compared her use of the word \"cockroach\" to previous uses by the Nazis and just before the Rwandan Genocide by its perpetrators. He suspected that if any other contributor had written the piece it would not have been published and questioned her continued employment by the newspaper. Zoe Williams commented in \"The Guardian\": \"It is no joke when people start talking like this. We are not 'giving her what she wants' when we make manifest our disgust. It is not a free speech issue. I'm not saying gag her: I'm saying fight her\".\n\nA Change.org petition was initiated with the aim of getting \"The Sun\" to sack Hopkins. By 26 April, it had attracted over 310,000 signatures. In early September, \"The Sun\" retweeted an earlier comment from Hopkins expressing her disinterest in migrants. The tweet was pulled after the Prime Minister David Cameron publicly announced Britain would do more to help those seeking asylum in the UK. A further Change.org petition for Hopkins to be replaced with 50,000 Syrian refugees gained more than 20,000 signatures in less than 48 hours in September 2015.\n\nPeter Herbert, chair of the Society of Black Lawyers, reported Hopkins and \"The Sun\" to Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner. Hopkins was questioned and not charged, and subsequently criticised the police for purportedly criminalising opinion, and stated that she would set up a Society of White Lawyers. By December 2016, the original article had been removed from \"The Sun\"s website.\n\nHopkins supported Donald Trump's Republican presidential nomination in the \"Daily Mail\" during December: \"I hear cries that he is a blithering idiot. I have often been called a deranged fool. But if this were true you could ignore me, ignore us, the two of us shouting naked at the rain. It's because we articulate sentiments repressed by the politically correct consensus that we have a voice\". Hopkins defended Trump's remarks that all Muslims should be banned from entering the United States. Trump later thanked Hopkins for her support and for her \"powerful writing on the U.K.'s Muslim problems\", calling her a \"respected journalist\", although the Metropolitan Police and the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson among others, rejected his comments that there are 'no go' areas of London for non-Muslims. Hopkins asserted that Britain is in part \"radicalised\" and \"it does nobody any favours to deny the obvious\". When asked by BBC's \"Daily Politics\" presenter Andrew Neil in a December 2015 interview to name the \"swathes\" of Britain that are no-go areas for non-Muslims, Hopkins replied that she couldn't for \"legal reasons\". When Neil pointed out there could be no legal problems with identifying an area she continued to refuse, saying only “I know those places exist\".\n\nIn January 2017, a caller to her LBC programme named Joseph said she came over as racist, following which she said: \"I genuinely believe 'racist' as a word has been used so much. I am sorry for the word racist in a way. I love language so much ... it's like a regular word now, it's lost all meaning to me\". When tweeting the clip she added, \"Call me racist. I don't care. I will stand up for white women being raped because you're scared to offend Muslims\". Hopkins tweeted shortly afterwards: \"Racial profiling is a good thing, call me racist. I don't care...it has lost all meaning\". She later briefly retweeted a favourable response from an account named Anti Juden SS, whose avatar featured the Swastika (and the United States flag), later explaining that she had not looked at the handle.\n\nSharing a poster on Twitter for the Netflix series \"Dear White People\" at the beginning of May 2017, Hopkins added: \"Dear black people. If your lives matter why do you stab and shoot each other so much\". Although, the tweet was deleted, users of the social media site circulated screenshots of what appeared to be a reference to the Black Lives Matter movement in the United States. In August 2016, she urged the London Mayor Sadiq Khan to use water cannon against Black Lives Matter protesters at Heathrow Airport, who had chained themselves to the tarmac of an approach road.\n\nIn early 2018 Hopkins was detained and had her passport briefly confiscated in South Africa for allegedly spreading racial hatred.\n\nRegarding the Manchester Arena bombing, Hopkins wrote that \"Britain is faced with some hard questions the people charged with protecting us are going to have to answer sooner or later\". Hopkins asserted that the suicide bomber, Salman Abedi, was known to the police, and questioned how he was permitted to re-enter Britain unchallenged after visiting Libya. \"Our leaders allow such deeply suspicious characters back into Britain,\" wrote Hopkins, \"and then expect us to swallow their lies that we will not give in to terror?\" Hopkins also tweeted about the need for a \"final solution\", the Nazis' term for the Holocaust, on the morning following the May 2017 Manchester Arena bombing. Although the tweet was soon deleted and reworded as a \"true solution\", Hopkins claimed the original was only a typographical error (she had also misspelled \"Manchester\"). The motive for the attack, and the background of the suicide bomber, was unknown at the time Hopkins made the comment.\n\nThe journalist Nick Cohen was among those who responded on Twitter: \"Even if Hopkins knows nothing of Nazism – which I doubt – her \"final solution\" can only mean ethnic cleansing\". Others, such as Owen Jones, called for a boycott of the LBC radio station while they employ her. Interviewed later on Fox News by Tucker Carlson, she called for people to insist on deportations among other responses to terrorist acts. She said: \"I used the word 'final solution' in a tweet, and I would not in any way want to use that term and the inference other people lay on that. What I meant was, we need a lasting solution, a resolution to this\". The incident led to Hopkins leaving LBC.\n\nFollowing the June 2017 London Bridge attack almost a fortnight later, Hopkins called for internment camps to be used for those suspected of being Muslim extremists on Fox News' \"Fox & Friends\". The host Clayton Morris said, on behalf of the network staff, that everyone considered the \"idea reprehensible\".\n\nHopkins' comments have been linked in the media with hate crimes against Muslims. A Muslim man in Heckmondwike stated that he was attacked by assailants who graffitied his house with Hopkins' tweet, including her misspelling \"#Machester\".\n\nIn July 2017, Hopkins flew to Catania in Sicily to visit a ship known as the C-Star hired by the Defend Europe movement, which has the intention of hindering the work of \"search and rescue\" vessels in the Mediterranean used by charities such as Save the Children to save trafficked migrants and refugees. Defend Europe is supported by the American white-nationalist David Duke and the neo-Nazi \"Daily Stormer\" website.\n\nHopkins tweets suggested she was actively supporting Defend Europe, rather than covering the subject for her employer: \"Looking forward to meeting the crew of the C-Star in Catania tomorrow. Setting out to defend the Med. All this week @MailOnline\". She tweeted, and then deleted, an image of herself with a Defend Europe activist also present in Sicily at the time, a man known as Peter Sweden, initially reported to be an active Holocaust denier.\n\nAn article headlined \"Katie Hopkins on NGOs colluding with traffickers in Sicily\" was briefly published on the \"Mailonline\" website in mid-July 2017. According to a report on the \"HuffPo\" website, the article offered no evidence to match the title. Shortly after her article was deleted, Save the Children rejected Hopkins' claim that she had \"spent time\" with the crew of one of their ships. \"Nor will she set sail with us on any of our rescue missions\", they stated. The deleted \"Mailonline\" article was her only contribution to the planned series.\n\nCookery writer and anti-poverty campaigner, Jack Monroe threatened a libel action against Katie Hopkins after Hopkins accused Monroe of vandalism to a war memorial, having confused Monroe with journalist Laurie Penny, who had written in support of that vandalism. Monroe called for an apology and a £5,000 donation to a migrants rescue charity. Hopkins later admitted that she was mistaken about the identity but did not apologise. Monroe began legal action in January 2016, and was awarded £24,000 in damages and £107,000 in legal costs in March 2017. After the decision became known, Hopkins tweeted an image of herself as the Virgin Mary and commented that she saw herself as \"the Jesus of the outspoken\". An appeal application was refused in January 2018 as it was considered unlikely to succeed.\n\nMohammad Tariq Mahmood, his brother and their children were stopped from boarding a Norwegian Air flight from Gatwick to Los Angeles on 15 December 2015. At the airport, the family from Walthamstow found their entry visas to the United States had been cancelled.\n\nIn December 2016, the Daily Mail and General Trust settled a libel case brought by the Mahmood family with £150,000 damages, plus legal costs, over two articles by Hopkins posted on the Mailonline website which claimed members of the Muslim family were extremists. The columns published at the time of the incident falsely claimed that officials were right to stop the family flying to Los Angeles to visit Disneyland because the two men were connected to al-Qaida, and that their stated plans were a \"lie\". In the settlement, the assertions from the Mahmood family were accepted as true by the \"Mail\" and Hopkins; the family had arranged to stay with another brother living in California, The family's MP, Stella Creasy, complained to the prime minister David Cameron at the time about the family's treatment, but Hopkins said Creasy was a \"whinging…blond-bobbed maniac\".\n\nIn a statement from the family's solicitors, Carter-Ruck, they said: \"matters are not helped when sensationalist and, frankly, Islamophobic articles such as this are published, and which caused us all a great deal of distress and anxiety. We are very pleased that the record has been set straight\". The two articles by Hopkins about the Mahmood family have been removed from the Mailonline website.\n\nIn November 2017, Hopkins' former employers Mail Online apologised and paid \"substantial damages\" to teacher Jackie Teale, after Hopkins had made false accusations of taking her class to a Donald Trump protest in Westminster.\n\nIn May 2018, Hopkins won an IPSO case against the \"Daily Mirror\" for claiming that she had been detained in South Africa in February 2018 for taking ketamine. The \"Mirror\" updated the headline to say that she had been detained for spreading racial hatred, and included a correction in the article.\n\nIn the 2009 European Parliament Election, Hopkins stood as a candidate for the South West England Constituency as an Independent candidate. She polled 8,971 votes or 0.6% of the total votes cast.\n\nIn late September 2015, Hopkins spoke at a fringe event organised by the Electoral Reform Society at the UK Independence Party (UKIP)'s annual conference. After derogatory comments about the appointment of Michelle Mone to the House of Lords, she said: \"Frankly, I don't really mind if we seal up the room and gas the lot of them\".\n\nUKIP said Hopkins was not a party member and, although she has reportedly applied to join on several occasions, her applications have always been rejected.\n\nIn November 2015, students at Brunel University turned their backs on her, then walked out in protest at her presence in a debate.\n\nHopkins' first husband was Damian McKinney, a former Royal Marine and founder and Chief Executive of the company McKinney Rogers; they married in September 2004 in Exeter. He was married to another woman when they first met; she has admitted to having \"stolen\" him. McKinney left Hopkins for another woman soon after the birth of the couple's second daughter. While working at the Met Office, she met Mark Cross, a married design manager. In 2010, her marriage to Cross was filmed as part of the reality game show \"Four Weddings\", which is shown on the satellite and cable channel Sky Living.\n\nHopkins formerly suffered from epilepsy; she was being hospitalised around once every 10 days in early 2014, she told Decca Aitkenhead: \"When I have a fit at night, my arms come out. They dislocate. So I have to go into hospital to have them relocated. That's happened 26 times in the last nine months\". The seizures could occur up to ten times at night, according to Sathnam Sanghera who interviewed her for \"The Times\" in mid-2015. They began in her late teens whenever she fell asleep and did not respond to prescribed drugs, she said in 2017. In a piece for \"The Sun\", published the following August, she announced she was undergoing surgery to help prevent seizures. In mid-November 2015, her condition led her to fall to the ground in the street, injuring her face, and for an ambulance to be called. She faced a Twitter backlash after, due to her previously asking her followers to tweet pictures of immigrants using health services.\n\nIn February 2016, she underwent surgery in which a portion of her brain was removed to relieve the severity of the condition. Hopkins tweeted a month later that the operation was a success. \"I am no longer an epileptic\", she tweeted. According to Hopkins, the surgery has, however, led to complications.\n\nHopkins sold her Exeter home in March 2018 for £930,000. She applied for an individual voluntary arrangement in May 2018 to avoid bankruptcy.\n"}
{"id": "1816558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1816558", "title": "Level of invention", "text": "Level of invention\n\nLevel of invention (or \"degree of inventiveness\", or \"level of solution\", or \"rank of solution\", or \"rank of invention\") is a relative degree of changes to the previous system (or solution) in the result of solution of inventive problem (one containing a contradiction). Term was defined and introduced by TRIZ author G. S. Altshuller.\n\nAfter initially reviewing 200,000 patent abstracts, Altshuller selected 40,000 as representatives of high level inventive solutions. The remainder involved direct improvements easily recognized within the specialty of the system.\n\nAltshuller separated the patents' different degrees of inventiveness into five levels:\n\nThese levels of invention are applied to solutions rather than problems requiring a system of solution.\n\nAlso level of invention and the potential for innovation in any nation, geographical area or economic activity is as measurement in the concept of \"innovative capacity\" originally introduced by Prof. Suarez-Villa in 1990.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42727889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42727889", "title": "Lingchi", "text": "Lingchi\n\nLingchi (), translated variously as the slow process, the lingering death, or slow slicing, and also known as death by a thousand cuts, was a form of torture and execution used in China from roughly 900 CE until it was banned in 1905. It was also used in Vietnam. In this form of execution, a knife was used to methodically remove portions of the body over an extended period of time, eventually resulting in death.\n\n\"Lingchi\" was reserved for crimes viewed as especially severe, such as treason. Some Westerners were executed in this manner. Even after the practice was outlawed, the concept itself has still appeared across many types of media.\n\nThe term \"lingchi\" first appeared in a line in Chapter 28 of the classical philosophical text \"Xunzi\". The line originally described the difficulty in travelling in a horse-drawn carriage on mountainous terrain. Later on, it was used to describe the prolonging of a person's agony when the person is being killed.\n\nThe process involved tying the condemned prisoner to a wooden frame, usually in a public place. The flesh was then cut from the body in multiple slices in a process that was not specified in detail in Chinese law, and therefore most likely varied. The punishment worked on three levels: as a form of public humiliation, as a slow and lingering death, and as a punishment after death.\n\nAccording to the Confucian principle of filial piety, to alter one's body or to cut the body are considered unfilial practices. \"Lingchi\" therefore contravenes the demands of filial piety. In addition, to be cut to pieces meant that the body of the victim would not be \"whole\" in spiritual life after death. This method of execution became a fixture in the image of China among some Westerners.\n\n\"Lingchi\" could be used for the torture and execution of a living person, or applied as an act of humiliation after death. It was meted out for major offences such as high treason, mass murder, patricide/matricide or the murder of one's master or employer. Emperors used it to threaten people and sometimes ordered it for minor offences. There were forced convictions and wrongful executions. Some emperors meted out this punishment to the family members of their enemies.\n\nWhile it is difficult to obtain accurate details of how the executions took place, they generally consisted of cuts to the arms, legs, and chest leading to amputation of limbs, followed by decapitation or a stab to the heart. If the crime was less serious or the executioner merciful, the first cut would be to the throat causing death; subsequent cuts served solely to dismember the corpse.\n\nArt historian James Elkins argues that extant photos of the execution clearly show that the \"death by division\" (as it was termed by German criminologist ) involved some degree of dismemberment while the subject was living. Elkins also argues that, contrary to the apocryphal version of \"death by a thousand cuts\", the actual process could not have lasted long. The condemned individual is not likely to have remained conscious and aware (if even alive) after one or two severe wounds, so the entire process could not have included more than a \"few dozen\" wounds.\n\nIn the Yuan dynasty, 100 cuts were inflicted but by the Ming dynasty there were records of 3,000 incisions. It is described as a fast process lasting no longer than 15 to 20 minutes. Available photographic records seem to prove the speed of the event as the crowd remains consistent across the series of photographs. Moreover, these photographs show a striking contrast between the stream of blood that soaks the left flank of the victim and the lack of blood on the right side, possibly showing that the first or the second cut has reached the heart. The \"coup de grâce\" was all the more certain when the family could afford a bribe to have a stab to the heart inflicted first. Some emperors ordered three days of cutting while others may have ordered specific tortures before the execution, or a longer execution. For example, records showed that during Yuan Chonghuan's execution, Yuan was heard shouting for half a day before his death.\n\nThe flesh of the victims may also have been sold as medicine. As an official punishment, death by slicing may also have involved slicing the bones, cremation, and scattering of the deceased's ashes.\n\nThe Western perception of \"lingchi\" has often differed considerably from the actual practice, and some misconceptions persist to the present. The distinction between the sensationalised Western myth and the Chinese reality was noted by Westerners as early as 1895. That year, Australian traveller George Ernest Morrison, who claimed to have witnessed an execution by slicing, wrote that \"\"lingchi\" [was] commonly, and quite wrongly, translated as 'death by slicing into 10,000 pieces' — a truly awful description of a punishment whose cruelty has been extraordinarily misrepresented... The mutilation is ghastly and excites our horror as an example of barbarian cruelty; but it is not cruel, and need not excite our horror, since the mutilation is done, not before death, but after.\"\n\nAccording to apocryphal lore, \"lingchi\" began when the torturer, wielding an extremely sharp knife, began by putting out the eyes, rendering the condemned incapable of seeing the remainder of the torture and, presumably, adding considerably to the psychological terror of the procedure. Successive rather minor cuts chopped off ears, nose, tongue, fingers, toes and genitals before proceeding to cuts that removed large portions of flesh from more sizable parts, e.g., thighs and shoulders.\n\nThe entire process was said to last three days, and to total 3,600 cuts. The heavily carved bodies of the deceased were then put on a parade for a show in the public. Some victims were reportedly given doses of opium to alleviate suffering.\n\nJohn Morris Roberts, in \"Twentieth Century: The History of the World, 1901 to 2000\" (2000), writes \"the traditional punishment of death by slicing... became part of the western image of Chinese backwardness as the 'death of a thousand cuts.'\" Roberts then notes that slicing \"was ordered, in fact, for K'ang Yu-Wei, a man termed the 'Rousseau of China', and a major advocate of intellectual and government reform in the 1890s.\"\n\nAlthough officially outlawed by the government of the Qing dynasty in 1905, \"lingchi\" became a widespread Western symbol of the Chinese penal system from the 1910s on, and in Zhao Erfeng's administration. Three sets of photographs shot by French soldiers in 1904–05 were the basis for later mythification. The abolition was immediately enforced, and definite: no official sentences of \"lingchi\" were performed in China after April 1905.\n\nRegarding the use of opium, as related in the introduction to Morrison's book, Meyrick Hewlett insisted that \"most Chinese people sentenced to death were given large quantities of opium before execution, and Morrison avers that a charitable person would be permitted to push opium into the mouth of someone dying in agony, thus hastening the moment of decease.\" At the very least, such tales were deemed credible to British officials in China and other Western observers.\n\n\"Lingchi\" existed under the earliest emperors, although similar but less cruel tortures were often prescribed instead. Under the reign of Qin Er Shi, the second emperor of the Qin dynasty, multiple tortures were used to punish officials. The arbitrary, cruel, and short-lived Liu Ziye was apt to kill innocent officials by \"lingchi\". Gao Yang killed only six people by this method, and An Lushan killed only one man. \"Lingchi\" was known in the Five Dynasties period (907–960 CE); but, in one of the earliest such acts, Shi Jingtang abolished it. Other rulers continued to use it.\n\nThe method was prescribed in the Liao dynasty law codes, and was sometimes used. Emperor Tianzuo often executed people in this way during his rule. It became more widely used in the Song dynasty under Emperor Renzong and Emperor Shenzong.\n\nAnother early proposal for abolishing \"lingchi\" was submitted by Lu You (1125–1210) in a memorandum to the imperial court of the Southern Song dynasty. Lu You's elaborate argument against \"lingchi\" was piously copied and transmitted by generations of scholars, among them influential jurists of all dynasties, until the late Qing dynasty reformist Shen Jiaben (1840–1913) included it in his 1905 memorandum that obtained the abolition. This anti-\"lingchi\" trend coincided with a more general attitude opposed to \"cruel and unusual\" punishments (such as the exposure of the head) that the Tang dynasty had not included in the canonic table of the Five Punishments, which defined the legal ways of punishing crime. Hence the abolitionist trend is deeply ingrained in the Chinese legal tradition, rather than being purely derived from Western influences.\n\nUnder later emperors, \"lingchi\" was reserved for only the most heinous acts, such as treason, a charge often dubious or false, as exemplified by the deaths of Liu Jin, a Ming dynasty eunuch, and Yuan Chonghuan, a Ming dynasty general. In 1542, \"lingchi\" was inflicted on a group of palace women who had attempted to assassinate the Jiajing Emperor, along with his favourite concubine, Consort Duan. The bodies of the women were then displayed in public. Reports from Qing dynasty jurists such as Shen Jiaben show that executioners' customs varied, as the regular way to perform this penalty was not specified in detail in the penal code.\n\n\"Lingchi\" was also known in Vietnam, notably being used as the method of execution of the French missionary Joseph Marchand, in 1835, as part of the repression following the unsuccessful Lê Văn Khôi revolt.\n\nAn 1858 account by \"Harper's Weekly\" claimed the martyr Auguste Chapdelaine was killed by \"lingchi\"; in reality he was beaten to death.\n\nAs Western countries moved to abolish similar punishments, some Westerners began to focus attention on the methods of execution used in China. As early as 1866, the time when Britain itself moved to abolish its own cruel method of hanging, drawing, and quartering, Thomas Francis Wade, then serving with the British diplomatic mission in China, unsuccessfully urged the abolition of \"lingchi\".\n\n\"Lingchi\" remained in the Qing dynasty's code of laws for persons convicted of high treason and other serious crimes, but the punishment was abolished as a result of the 1905 revision of the Chinese penal code by Shen Jiaben.\n\n\nThe first Western photographs of \"lingchi\" were taken in 1890 by William Arthur Curtis of Kentucky in Guangzhou (Canton).\n\nFrench soldiers stationed in Beijing had the opportunity to photograph three different \"lingchi\" executions in 1905:\n\nPhotographic material and other sources are available online at the Chinese Torture Database (Iconographic, Historical and Literary Approaches of an Exotic Representation) hosted by the Institut d'Asie Orientale (CNRS, France).\n\nAccounts of \"lingchi\" or the extant photographs have inspired or referenced in numerous artistic, literary, and cinematic media. Some works have attempted to put the process in a historical context; others, possibly due to the scarcity of detailed historical information, have attempted to extrapolate the details or present innovations of method that may be products of an author's creative license. Some of these descriptions may have influenced modern public perceptions of the historic practice.\n\nSusan Sontag mentions the 1905 case in \"Regarding the Pain of Others\" (2003). One reviewer wrote that though Sontag includes no photographs in her book – a volume about photography – \"she does tantalisingly describe a photograph that obsessed the philosopher Georges Bataille, in which a Chinese criminal, while being chopped up and slowly flayed by executioners, rolls his eyes heavenwards in transcendent bliss.\"\n\nThe philosopher Georges Bataille wrote about \"lingchi\" in \"L'expérience intérieure\" (1943) and in \"Le coupable\" (1944). He included five pictures in his \"The Tears of Eros\" (1961; translated into English and published by City Lights in 1989). Historians Timothy Brook, Jérome Bourgon and Gregory Blue, criticised Bataille for his language, mistakes and dubious content.\n\nThe \"death by a thousand cuts\" with reference to China is also mentioned in Malcolm Bosse's novel \"The Examination\", Amy Tan's novel \"The Joy Luck Club\", and Robert van Gulik's \"Judge Dee\" novels. The 1905 photos are mentioned in Thomas Harris' novel \"Hannibal\" and in Julio Cortázar's novel \"Hopscotch\".\n\nInspired by the 1905 photos, Chinese artist Chen Chien-jen created a 25-minute film called \"Lingchi\", which has generated some controversy.\n\nA scene of Lingchi also appeared on the film The Sand Pebbles (film).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25562365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25562365", "title": "Lisp Algebraic Manipulator", "text": "Lisp Algebraic Manipulator\n\nThe Lisp Algebraic Manipulator (also known as LAM) was created by Ray d'Inverno, who had written Atlas LISP Algebraic Manipulation (ALAM was designed in 1970). LAM later became the basis for the interactive computer package SHEEP.\n"}
{"id": "1082007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082007", "title": "Mesures usuelles", "text": "Mesures usuelles\n\nMesures usuelles (, \"customary measurements\") were a system of measurement introduced by Napoleon I in 1812 to act as compromise between the metric system and traditional measurements. The system was restricted to use in the retail industry and continued in use until 1839.\n\nIn the five years immediately before the French First Republic introduced the metric system, every effort was made to make the citizens aware of the upcoming changes and to prepare them for it. The administration distributed tens of thousands of educational pamphlets, private enterprise produced educational games, guides, almanacs and conversion aids, and metre standards were built into the walls of prominent buildings around Paris. The introduction was phased by district over the next few years, with Paris being the first district to change. The government also realised that the people would need metre rulers, but they had only provided 25,000 of the 500,000 rulers needed in Paris as late as one month after the metre became the sole legal unit of measure. To compensate, the government introduced incentives for the mass-production of rulers. Paris police reported widespread flouting of the requirement for merchants to use only the metric system. Where the new system was in use, it was abused, with shopkeepers taking the opportunity to round prices up and to give smaller measures.\nNapoleon I, the French Emperor, disliked the inconvenience of surrendering the high factorability of traditional measures in the name of decimalisation, and recognized the difficulty of getting it accepted by the populace. Under the \"décret impérial du 12 février 1812\" (imperial decree of 12 February 1812), he introduced a new system of measurement, the \"mesures usuelles\" or \"customary measures\", for use in small retail businesses. However, all government, legal and similar works still had to use the metric system and the metric system continued to be taught at all levels of education.\n\nThe prototypes of the metric unit, the kilogram and the metre, enabled an immediate standardization of measurement over the whole country, replacing the varying legal measures in different parts of the country, and even more across the whole of Europe. The new \"livre\" (known as the \"livre métrique\") was defined as five hundred grams, and the new \"toise\" (\"toise métrique\") was defined as two metres. Products could be sold in shops under the old names and with the old relationships to one another, but with slightly different absolute sizes. This series of measurements was called \"mesures usuelles\".\n\nNapoleon's decree was revoked during the reign of Louis Philippe by the \"loi du 4 juillet 1837\" (law of 4 July 1837). This took effect on 1 January 1840, and reinstated the original metric system, thus bringing the system of \"mesures usuelles\" to an end.\n\nThe law authorised the following units of measure:\n\n\nThe \"mesures usuelles\" did not include any units of length greater than the \"toise\" - the \"myriamètre\" (10 km) remaining in use throughout this period.\n"}
{"id": "17185162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17185162", "title": "Mouchette.org", "text": "Mouchette.org\n\nMouchette.org is an interactive website created in 1996 by a pseudonymous character, an Amsterdam-based artist who calls herself \"Mouchette\". With her innocent salutation and claims to be \"nearly thirteen\" greeting the visitor from the introduction page, what initially appears as a personal website of a pre-pubescent female artist evolves into darker themes in the subsequent pages.\n\nMouchette is loosely based on a 1937 book by Georges Bernanos and the 1967 Robert Bresson movie, \"Mouchette\". The storyline is about a French teenager who commits suicide after she is raped. An online quiz comparing the \"Neo-Mouchette\" to the movie angered Bresson's widow, so she threatened a lawsuit against the artist behind the project. The quiz was taken down after that incident.\n\nThe creator of the website has been a closely guarded secret, though the piece has somewhat recently been claimed by artist Martine Neddam. While the use of taboo subject matters are what initially \"provokes heated reactions\", the manipulation of cyber identity and the ability of the creator to maintain anonymity for so long are the significant reasons this website has garnered its \"international reputation\" in the Internet art community.\n\nThis simple and \"deceptively innocent\" introduction, which appears next to a portrait of a \"sad eyed\" adolescent girl on the main page with a floral background, is in stark contrast to the complexity of the rest of the site. Consisting \"of various secret links, electronic interactive texts, and poems that reveal the multiple faces of the artist, along with her fears and obsessions\", participants of the website are often left wondering whether \"a website this sophisticated [could] really be the work of a 13 year old girl\".\n\nJust like the film \"Mouchette\", one of the many themes running throughout Mouchette.org is the idea of death. The recurring image of a fly is present on many of the pages. The word \"mouchette\" translates into English as \"little fly\". The comparable lives between the Mouchettes – the fly and the girl – are intersected when it revolves around the death of the fly. On one page, Mouchette refers to herself as the fly and blames the web visitor for killing her when he/she pressed a button on the previous webpage. On another page, somber music plays as the phrase \"Lullaby for a dead fly\" is shown on the screen.\nAs stated in \"Internet Art\", \"in early iterations of the site, the virtual persona Mouchette was obsessed with suicide\". One page asks the viewer on what they think the best way to kill yourself when you’re under 13. On a page entitled m.org.ue, an image of feet is shown, with one foot wearing a toe tag, while ghostly music plays. When a link called \"meet my parent\" is clicked, it directs to a page that has scanned images of meat, with the words \"Papa\" and \"Maman\" carved in it. On another page, an image of a cat violently shakes on the screen while sounds of screaming are playing; the viewer is asked to kill this cat.\n\n\"Sexually suggestive\" themes are present throughout the site. One the opening page of the section named \"***digital flesh&blood***\" the background image is of a close up of a young girl’s face, sticking out her tongue. The text accompanying this image reads: \"Want to know what my tongue tastes like? Try it on your screen and tell me.\" Another page, titled \"touché\", has a completely black background, with tiny white words scattered in different sections of the page. As the pointer scrolls over specific points on the page, sounds of a woman gasping are activated. Many pages of this website have interactive web forms that include multiple-choice questions asking your email address. Days or weeks later the viewer might get unexpected flirtatious email messages from Mouchette.\n\nParticipants are given the opportunity to \"become Mouchette\", when they become a member of the \"Mouchette Network\". Members can \"create true Mouchette webpages\" and are given \"a unique opportunity to become a great artist.\"\n\nThe interactive questionnaires often will ask you to post your name and email address if you answer one of the questions. But the anonymity of the creator and the unsettling topics makes a participant wonder how seriously he/she should answer the questions, including question about their name and identity.\n\nDays/weeks later, participants will get a random email from Mouchette. This will often be unsettling because it's random and unexpected, leaving the participant to question their identity/decision to input personal information of the website.\n\nThe website's exploration of manipulating identity has been compared to conceptual photographer, Cindy Sherman.\n\nWith its taboo subject matter, Mouchette.org has \"provoked heated reaction\" in the art community. An interactive forum allows participants to state why they hate Mouchette.\n\nIn an early version of Mouchette.org, there was a quiz comparing web persona Mouchette and the lead character in the Bresson film \"Mouchette\". Images taken from the film were used in this quiz. In 2002, the Robert Bresson estate \"threatened legal action against the artist\" responsible for Mouchette.org. According to Toni Sant, \"This case brought the online piece to the attention of many who might have overlooked it in the plethora of Net Art that has emerged over the past few years\". In a letter from the SACD (Société des Auteurs et Compositeurs Dramatiques) (the French Society of Dramatic Authors and Composers) addressed to the creator of Mouchette.org, it states that Bresson's widow \"demands that all reference to the film \"Mouchette\"...be eliminated from your website.\" According to Sant, \"this copyright issue raises the question of ownership over fictional identities...and raises issues of originality and ownership.\"\n\nAfter the forced removal of the quiz from Mouchette.org, \"as a protest, a growing network of websites are hosting copies of this work which is no longer allowed to be shown on <nowiki>http://mouchette.org</nowiki>\" The distributor of the quiz blames the \"narrow-mindedness of the heir of the copyright\" for censoring \"a work which is an homage celebrating the source of its inspiration.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26627577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26627577", "title": "OneLogin", "text": "OneLogin\n\nOneLogin, Inc. is a cloud-based identity and access management (IAM) provider focused on selling to businesses and other organizations. The company's goals are to use IAM to secure user access to applications and devices, reduce IT time on user onboarding and offboarding, and increase end user productivity through single sign-on (SSO).\n\nOneLogin's Open Source SAML Toolkits are now used by over 300 app vendors and over 70 SaaS vendors to make their apps more secure. OneLogin integrates with multiple cloud applications, most recently Namely, Workplace by Facebook and RemedyForce.\n\nOneLogin was founded in 2009 in San Francisco by Thomas and Christian Pedersen. The brothers were involved with the on-demand help desk application, Zendesk, before launching OneLogin. Through their interactions with Zendesk customers, the founders realized that companies were encountering security and productivity challenges moving into the cloud. This is where the idea came to build an identity and access management solution that was secure and easy to use. OneLogin officially launched in 2010. In August 2017, OneLogin appointed Brad Brooks as chief executive officer.\n\nOneLogin's product line-up includes the following:\n\nOneLogin customers use the company's service to manage millions of user identities in dozens of countries. The company serves customers from a range of industries including technology, education, retail, financial services, manufacturing, media, health and life sciences, and services. Some representative customers of OneLogin include Steelcase, Pinterest, Dell Services, San Jose Unified School District, Practice Fusion, Acuris, Fairfax Media, Sonnen, Kreditech, Berklee College of Music, and Berwin Leighton Paisner.\n\nThe OneLogin API provides endpoints for SAML, OpenID Connect, SCIM, and OAuth. There are also SAML Toolkits for Java, Python, Ruby, and PHP, made available on the company's public GitHub repositories. These toolkits are actively developed by dozens of contributors. These SAML toolkits have been downloaded more than three million times.\n\nOneLogin provides single sign-on for cloud applications including Microsoft Office 365, Google G Suite, Salesforce.com, Amazon Web Services, ServiceNow, and Workplace by Facebook. Users may sign in to its single sign-on service using their credentials from Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter. The company's offerings also integrate with the following directories: Active Directory, ADFS, LDAP, Google G Suite Directory, Workday, Ultimate Software UltiPro, and Namely. OneLogin sends data to Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) systems, including Splunk, Sumo Logic, and ELK/Elastic.\n\nOneLogin Protect, a mobile application for multi-factor authentication, runs on iOS and Android devices. OneLogin integrates with third-party MFA providers Duo Security, Google Authenticator, RSA SecurID, Symantec VIP Access, Yubico Yubikey, Gemalto SafeNet, Swivel Pinsafe, VASCO DIGIPASS and IDENTIKEY, and FireID Security. OneLogin Desktop Authentication runs on Windows and Mac computers.\n\nOneLogin SSO Browser Extensions run on Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge and Internet Explorer, Safari, and Firefox. OneLogin integrates with RADIUS to authenticate into network appliances including WiFi access points and VPN servers, including those from Cisco Meraki and Juniper. OneLogin Web Access Management integrates with Apache, Microsoft IIS, and Tomcat. OneLogin integrates with cloud access security brokers (CASBs) Cisco Cloudlock, Skyhigh, and Bitglass.\n\nIn September 2016, OneLogin announced a partnership with Deutsche Telekom’s T-Systems to resell OneLogin within the European Union (EU).\n\nOneLogin is backed by the venture firms Charles River Ventures, The Social Capital, and Scale Venture Partners. Its venture funding includes:\n\nIn December 2015, OneLogin acquired San Diego-based Cafésoft, a provider of on-premise Web Access Management (WAM) software. The technology enables OneLogin to extend Single Sign-on to applications running on-premises.\n\nIn June 2016, OneLogin acquired Santa Clara, California-based Portadi, a cloud-based password management tool. The technology enables OneLogin to automatically populate customer's OneLogin single sign-on portals with applications as employees manually sign into them.\n\nIn November 2016, OneLogin acquired London-based Sphere Secure Workspace, a software vendor with container technology that runs on mobile devices.\n\nIn June 2017, OneLogin acquired Auckland, New Zealand-based ThisData, a developer-focused cloud security company specializing in account takeover detection. The technology has been used to enable OneLogin's adaptive authentication solution, which uses machine learning to intelligently score the risk of each login attempt, and challenges users making high-risk logins to use an additional authentication factor.\n\nIn May 2015, Forrester Research ranked OneLogin as the top vendor in the Forrester Wave for Cloud Identity & Access Management.\n\nIn December 2015, OneLogin was named a \"Best Place to Work\" by Glassdoor.\n\nIn January 2016, OneLogin was ranked 28th on Deloitte's Technology Fast 500, a ranking of the 500 fastest growing technology, media, telecommunications, life sciences and energy tech companies in North America.\n\nIn March 2016, OneLogin was named to the \"Fast 50\" privately held Internet security, networking, and storage companies by JMP Securities LLC.\n\nOneLogin has been named a \"Top Workplace\" by the Bay Area News Group and the Great Place to Work series.\n\nIn July 2017, Gartner Peer Insights ranked OneLogin #1 among Access Management providers. \nThe company has been mentioned in USA Today, TechCrunch, The Wall Street Journal, Forbes, Bloomberg, Marketwatch, The Atlantic, and Fortune.\n\nOneLogin maintains the following certifications:\n\nOneLogin has published the scope of its compliance with:\n\nOneLogin reports on the current and historic availability of its service at onelogin.com/trust, with backup availability status pages at onelogin.status.io and onelogineu.status.io. OneLogin runs in multiple Amazon Web Services (AWS) datacenters in the US, as well as in AWS Dublin and AWS Frankfurt.\n\nOneLogin remained available and performant during the October 2016 attack on Dyn, a major provider of DNS services, which brought down many websites, including Spotify, Twitter, Reddit, and The New York Times, in part by using redundant DNS providers.\n\nOneLogin regularly performs penetration tests and network scans, anti-phishing programs, and runs a bug bounty program and vulnerability disclosure program.\n\n\"OneLogin Security Breach, August 2016\"\n\nIn August 2016, OneLogin reported that \"an unauthorised user gained access to one of our standalone systems, which we use for log storage and analytics.\". The single user accessed the service for a month or more, and may have been able to see Secure Notes unencrypted. To remediate, OneLogin fixed the cleartext logging bug, locked down access to the log management system, and reset passwords.\n\n\"OneLogin Security Breach, May 2017\"\n\nOn May 31, 2017, OneLogin detected and stopped unauthorized access in their US data region. According to a OneLogin blog post on the breach, \"a threat actor used one of our AWS keys to gain access to our AWS platform via an API from an intermediate host with another, smaller service provider in the US.\"\n\nOneLogin staff detected the intrusion in seven hours. This seven hour Time to Detection (TTD) was faster than Cisco's estimated industry average of 100–200 days to detect a breach and FireEye's 146 days to detect a breach, and slightly faster than Cisco's best median TTD of nine hours to discover security issues.\n\nOneLogin staff shut down the affected instances as well as the compromised AWS keys within several minutes to stop the intrusion and confirmed there were no other active threats. This was significantly faster than the industry average of 100–120 days to remediate existing vulnerabilities.\n\nThe company has since improved its monitoring of AWS API endpoint signals, strengthened AWS key management, enhanced infrastructure and application encryption, expanded threat hunting activities and created additional in-app risk mitigation tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "1216924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1216924", "title": "Pepero Day", "text": "Pepero Day\n\nPepero Day is held annually on November 11, and is an observance in South Korea similar to Valentine's Day. It involves the gifting or exchange of Pepero snacks, a line of chocolate-dipped cookie sticks, with the intention of displaying affection for friends and loved ones. It is held on this day due to the resemblance of Pepero sticks, which are vertical that mirror the shortened date of 11/11.\n\nThe exact origins of this day are unknown. The origins are usually traced to a news story set in 1983. In the story, two female middle school students in the Yeongnam region exchanged Pepero wishing that they would both become tall and thin. However, there is some doubt about this story. Some argue that the origin was due to the shape of 1’s in the date (November 11 – 11/11) resembling Pepero sticks, while some others attribute the similarity of shapes as factors that attributed to the popularity but not its origin.\n\nThe fad spread with the idea that, for maximum effectiveness for height and thinness, one must eat 11 packets of Pepero on November 11, 11:11am and 11:11pm at 11 seconds exactly. From 1997, Lotte started to use the aforementioned school story to successfully promote Pepero Day. The trend led to other companies creating similarly shaped snacks to participate on Pepero Day. , Lotte was making 50% of its annual sales on Pepero Day. , several department stores including Hyundai Department Store, Shinsegae, and Lotte Department Store were benefiting for people celebrating the day while stores such as E-mart and Homeplus were specially displaying and selling peperos on the day.\n\nPepero Day has been criticized for being a business tool of certain companies and for having high calories which is contradictory to its original meaning. Alternatives include \"Garaetteok Day\", which promotes Farmer’s Day through exchanges of garaetteok (sticks of white tteok).\n\n"}
{"id": "4957366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4957366", "title": "Pulse-per-second signal", "text": "Pulse-per-second signal\n\nA pulse per second (PPS or 1PPS) is an electrical signal that has a width of less than one second and a sharply rising or abruptly falling edge that accurately repeats once per second. PPS signals are output by radio beacons, frequency standards, other types of precision oscillators and some GPS receivers. Precision clocks are sometimes manufactured by interfacing a PPS signal generator to processing equipment that aligns the PPS signal to the UTC second and converts it to a useful display. Atomic clocks usually have an external PPS output, although internally they may operate at 9,192,631,770 Hz. PPS signals have an accuracy ranging from a 12 picoseconds to a few microseconds per second, or 2.0 nanoseconds to a few milliseconds per day based on the resolution and accuracy of the device generating the signal.\n\nPPS signals are usually generated as a TTL signal capable of driving a 1 kilohm load. Some sources use line drivers in order to be capable of driving 50 ohm transmission lines. Because of the broad frequency contents, a long transmission line can have significant impact on the shape of the PPS signal due to dispersion and after delivery effects of the dielectric of the transmission line. It is common to set t0 at the voltage level of the steepest slope of a PPS signal. PPS signals are therefore notoriously unreliable when time transfer accuracies better than a ns are needed, although the stability of a PPS signal can reach into the ps regime depending on the generating device.\n\nPPS signals are used for precise timekeeping and time measurement. One increasingly common use is in computer timekeeping, including the NTP protocol. Because GPS is considered a stratum-0 source, a common use for the PPS signal is to connect it to a PC using a low-latency, low-jitter wire connection and allow a program to synchronize to it. This makes the PC a stratum-1 time source. Note that because the PPS signal does not specify the time, but merely the start of a second, one must combine the PPS functionality with another time source that provides the full date and time in order to ascertain the time both accurately and precisely.\n\n\nSites that describe how to use the PPS signal to set precise time on a PC:\n"}
{"id": "45349329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45349329", "title": "Slicing Petri nets", "text": "Slicing Petri nets\n\nPetri net (PN) slicing is a syntactic technique used to reduce a PN model based on a given criterion. Informally, a slicing criterion could be a property for which a PN model is analyzed or is a set of places, transitions, or both. A sliced part constitutes only that part of a PN model that may affect the criteria.\n\nThe term slicing was coined by M. Weiser in the context of program debugging. According to Wieser, a program slice is a reduced, executable program that can be obtained from a program P based on the variables of interest and line number by removing statements such that program slicing replicates part of the behavior of the program. The term was later adapted to the context of Petri nets and for other classes of Petri nets such as Algebraic Petri nets.\n"}
{"id": "4039440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4039440", "title": "Social facilitation", "text": "Social facilitation\n\nSocial facilitation, or the audience effect, is the tendency for people to perform differently when in the presence of others than when alone. Compared to their performance when alone, when in the presence of others, they tend to perform better on simple or well-rehearsed tasks and worse on complex or new ones. The Yerkes-Dodson law, when applied to social facilitation, states that \"the mere presence of other people will enhance the performance in speed and accuracy of well-practiced tasks, but will degrade in the performance of less familiar tasks.\"\n\nSocial facilitation has occasionally been attributed to the fact that certain people are more susceptible to social influence, with the argument that personality factors can make these people more aware of evaluation.\n\nThe audience effect is an attempt at psychologically explaining why the presence of an audience leads to people's performing tasks better in some cases and worse in others. This idea was further explored when some studies showed that the presence of a passive audience facilitated the better performance of a simple task, while other studies showed that the presence of a passive audience inhibited the performance of a more difficult task or one that was not well practiced, possibly due to psychological pressure or stress. (See Yerkes–Dodson law.)\n\nSocial facilitation can be defined as a tendency for individuals to perform differently when in the mere presence of others. Specifically, individuals perform better on simpler or well-rehearsed tasks and perform worse on complex or new ones. In relation to this, there are three main empirical relationships which are the activation, evaluation, and attention theories. The activation theory describes how we are physiologically aroused and how that affects our functioning. The evaluation theory relates to the systematic assessment of the worth or merit of some object. The attention theory takes into account possession in the mind including focalization and concentration of consciousness.\n\nIn 1897, Triplett studied the effect on performance of having an audience. Triplett's experiment had a simple design; a cyclist's performance when alone was compared with a cyclist's performance when racing against another cyclist. He found that the cyclist was slowest when he was only racing the clock and not another cyclist. He attributed these results to a competitive instinct which releases energy that was not available when pedaling alone. Triplett's study started off a revolution of studies attempting to examine the theory that people's performance is influenced by the presence of others. In 1898, while studying the competitive nature of children, he found that children were much faster at completing their given activity (winding string) while they were competing, which caused him to wonder whether or not simply having another individual there would have the same effect. To determine this, Triplett studied the race time of cyclists and found that cyclists had faster race times when in the presence of other cyclists. He theorized that the faster times were because the presence of others made individuals more competitive, and further research led Triplett to theorize that the presence of others increases individuals' performances in other noncompetitive situations as well.\n\nIn 1924, Floyd Allport, coined the term social facilitation. Allport conducted studies in which participants sat either alone or with other participants and did a variety of tasks such as word association tasks and multiplication assessments. He found that people performed better when in a group setting than when alone for the majority of tasks. However, at this time, social facilitation simply meant an \"increase in response merely from the sight or sound of others making the same movement.\"\n\nHazel Markus of the University of Michigan conducted an experiment to test the hypothesis that the mere presence of others can influence an individual's performance. A task that lacked a rubric structure and was likely to cause the subject to be apprehensive of how they would be evaluated was used. Performance times on the task of dressing and undressing in familiar and unfamiliar clothing were compared with subjects working alone, working in the presence of a passive inattentive person, and working in the presence of an attentive spectator. Compared to the alone condition, both social conditions (audience and incidental audience) enhanced performance on the well-learned aspects of the task of dressing and undressing with the subject's own familiar clothing and hindered the subject's performance on the more complex aspects of the task of dressing and undressing using unfamiliar clothing. It was concluded that the presence of others is a sufficient condition for social facilitation and social interference effects. Therefore, the presence of an audience causes an individual to do better on a simple task or worse on a more complicated task.\n\nIn a 2010 study, donation rates increased with the presence of observers, and neuroimaging revealed that the presence of observers significantly affected activation in the ventral striatum before the choice of whether or not to donate.\n\nIn Raefeli's meta-analysis of the social facilitation phenomenon in 2002, three conclusions are made. Firstly, the presence of others heightens an individual's physiological arousal only if the individual is performing a complex task. Moreover, the mere presence of others increases the speed of simple task performance and decrease the speed of complex task performance. Lastly, social facilitation effects are surprisingly unrelated to the performer's evaluation apprehension.\n\nA study was done in 2014 that compared the performance of individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) to typically developing (TD) individuals on a task with the presence of another. The experiment conducted tested the hypothesis that an individual with ASD, will respond to the presence of experimenters, thus altering the results of the experiment.\n\nThe major three approaches to social facilitation are the activation, evaluation, and attention theories. The activation theory describes how our arousal relates to social facilitation. The evaluation theory discusses how being assessed by an audience affects to social facilitation. The attention theory takes into account the effect of distractions in the environment on social facilitation.\n\nIn 1956, Robert Zajonc was trying to figure out why some studies showed people's performance being hindered by the presence of others rather than being made more accurate. He designed an experiment that would examine the performance of someone doing a simple vs. complex task in front of others. He found that, when people were performing a simple task in the presence of others, they could complete it with greater accuracy than when they were alone. This was something most psychologist were aware of at this time. However, what Zajonc found that was revolutionary in this time period was that, when people attempt to perform tasks which are more complex or with which they are not familiar, they complete it with less accuracy when in the presence of others than when they alone. Thus, social inhibition was born.\n\nIn 1965, Robert Zajonc developed the stern activation theory, by proposing his generalized drive hypothesis for social facilitation. Zajonc's generalized drive hypothesis was the first theory that addressed why the presence of others increased performance sometimes yet decreased it at other times. He argued that the presence of others serves as a source of arousal, and heightened arousal increases the likelihood of an organism to do better on well-learned or habitual responses. For this reason, arousal improves performance on simple, or well-learned tasks, but impairs performance on complex, or not well-learned tasks. Zajonc's reasoning was based on Yerkes-Dodson's law, which holds that performance works like an inverse \"U\" function. This means that an individual's optimal drive is higher for simpler, or well-practiced tasks, and that the same individual's optimal drive is lower for more complex, or less-practiced tasks. The presence of other people further arouses us and increases our drive level, and so an individual's performance will be enhanced if a task is simple (because of the high levels of energy) but diminished if the task is complex. He tested his theories by having people complete word association tasks alone and again in the presence of others, and found that the tasks were done much faster while in the presence of others.\n\nOther activation theories include the alertness hypothesis, the monitoring hypothesis, and the challenge and threat hypothesis.\n\nThe alertness hypothesis says that people are uncertain of how observers will act while in the presence of others, so they become more alert (because the performer will be uncertain about how the observers will act in the situation). It is this heightened alertness which causes them to perform better on tasks.\n\nThe monitoring hypothesis posits that social facilitation effects do not occur when the performer is familiar with the observers or the situation. This is because, in those cases, the performer knows how the observer will respond or how the situation will take place. Therefore, in such situations the performer's arousal will not increase. So, if the person is unfamiliar with the observers or the situation, he/she will experience uncertainty and arousal will increase, but not if he/she is familiar with them.\n\nThe challenge and threat hypothesis states that people perform worse on complex tasks and better on simple tasks when in the presence of others because of the type of cardio-vascular response to the task. When performing a simple task in the presence of others, people show a normal cardiovascular response. However, when performing a complex task in the presence of others, the cardiovascular response is similar to that of a person in a threatening position. The normal cardiovascular response serves to improve performance, but the threat-like cardiovascular response serves to impede performance.\n\nIn 1968, Henchy and Glass proposed the evaluation approach to social facilitation. Their evaluation apprehension hypothesis states that it is not the mere presence of others that increases individual activation/arousal, but rather the fear of being evaluated by an audience. They studied the reactivity of male high school and college students, where their responses were based on the strength they developed through prior training, and found that the groups who felt their performance was being evaluated had more dominant responses than the groups who were simply in the presence of an audience without being evaluated, or those that were alone.\n\nA further extension of the evaluation approach is the learned drive hypothesis, which was developed by Cottrell, Wack, Sekerak, and Rittle, and states that activation only increases when actors feel that the audience is capable of evaluating their performance. In other words, it implies that the cause of evaluation apprehension comes from a learned audience. They studied how a participant performed on well-learned tasks while in the presence of an audience focused on another event, and in the presence of an audience focused on the tasks being performed. They found that participants performing in the latter group, with the audience that was focused on what the participants were doing, largely gave dominant responses.\n\nWeiss and Miller furthered developed the evaluation approach by hypothesizing that activation only increases when the actors fear a negative evaluation. This theory suggests that activation increases when the audience or other competitors cause negative feelings, such as anxiety, in the actor. However, Good's development of evaluation apprehension takes the opposite approach, where he hypothesizes that activation increases when actors expect a positive evaluation.\n\nBecause of the conflicting theories under the evaluation approach, there has been controversy over its reliability. A meta-analysis done by Bond found that even when individuals are in the presence of a non-visible or non-evaluative audience, activation still occurs for an increase in dominant responses.\n\nIn the 1980s, explanations shifted from activation theories to attention theories, which imply that withdrawal from some things is necessary in order to deal effectively with others. Attention theories that explain social facilitation include the distraction-conflict hypothesis, the overload hypothesis, the feedback-loop model, and the capacity model.\n\nIn his distraction-conflict hypothesis, Robert Baron proposed that the level of performance on a task is predicted by the amount of distractions in the environment surrounding the task. The hypothesis states that distraction leads to arousal, so the presence of others always impedes performance on difficult tasks, but the number of distractions in the environment either improves or impedes the performance on simple tasks.\n\nThe overload hypothesis works according to the distraction-conflict hypothesis, saying that distracters do not lead to increased arousal, but rather to cognitive overload (when an individual is bombarded with excessive information in their working memory), and while in cognitive overload, individuals will do worse on complex tasks and better on more simple tasks. Performance increases on simple tasks because the performers focus their attention on the new stimuli, instead of the irrelevant stimuli that is characteristic of simple tasks. Performance decreases on complex tasks because the performers focus on the distracters, but also need to focus on the relevant stimuli that are characteristic of complex tasks, and they cannot handle all of the information they are being presented with.\n\nThe feedback-loop model postulates that when people feel they are being observed, they focus attention on themselves. While in this state, individuals become aware of the differences between their actual behavior and anticipated behavior. So, by feedback-loop model, people do better in the presence of others because of this increased awareness about their behavior.\n\nThe capacity model of social facilitation focuses on the role of types of information processing on performance in front of an audience, rather than the performance on different type of tasks (simple or complex) in front of an audience. The capacity model suggests that for tasks that require automatic information processing, the presence of others does not cause problems because the short-term memory is not required for automatic information processing, so performance quality increases. However, for tasks that require controlled information processing, the presence of others does impede the level of performance because the short-term memory is necessary to both focus attention on the audience, as well as the task at hand.\n\nThe self-presentation approach to social facilitation has two main theories: one regarding arousal or drive, and one without. The first theory argues that in the presence of an audience, individuals become concerned with self-presentation. The possible embarrassment that occurs with negative evaluation leads to activation of arousal, or increased drive which will cause more dominant effects. The second theory argues that it is not an issue of arousal, but rather of simple responses, because the individual wants to appear competent in the presence of others. If the task is easy, the individual will want to make him/herself appear even more competent by doing exceptionally well on the task. However, if the task is difficult, they will fear that they will present themselves as incompetent, which will in turn make them embarrassed, and further impede their performance.\n\nHowever, there has not been significant research done or evidence supporting the self-presentation approach. The main study looking at this approach was done by Bond in 1982, but it did not include independent measures of self-presentation, so it was not able to conclusively prove the validity of this approach.\n\nIn 1898, Norman Triplett pioneered research on social facilitation by studying the competitive nature of children. In this study, each child was given a string and was told to wind it. He found that children performed much better while they were competing with one another, and further research led Triplett to theorize that the presence of others increases individuals' performances in other noncompetitive situations as well.\n\nIn 1973, Chapman ran an experiment and found that levels of laughter among 7–8 year-old children were highest when two children listened to funny material together (coaction condition). Furthermore, levels of laughter were higher when one child listened to funny material in the presence of another child (audience condition) than when one child listened to the funny material alone (alone condition). These results indicate that laughter is also socially facilitated.\n\nIn 1994, De Castro demonstrated that social facilitation affects food intake by extending the time spent eating a meal. His results also showed that the presence of family and friends, in comparison with the presence of mere companions, increases food intake to a greater degree, possibly due to the \"release of inhibitory restraints on intake\" that occurs when people feel more comfortable around people they are familiar with. Furthermore, males ate 36% more food when with other people than when alone, and females ate 40% more food when with other people than when alone. De Castro attributes this to the time-extension model of social facilitation, as the time spent at a meal increased when the meal was a social occasion. These results suggest that the presence of other people at a meal increases intake by extending the time spent at the meal, probably as a result of social interaction, and that family and friends have an even larger effect, probably by producing relaxation and a consequent disinhibition of restraint on intake. Furthermore, these results also suggest that social facilitation has very similar effects on both men and women.\n\nIn 1920, when asked to write out as many words as possible in response to a given word, 93% of participants produced more words in the presence of another person than alone. However, when this study was replicated with individuals who stuttered when they spoke, 80% of the participants produced more words when alone rather than in the presence of another person.\n\nLee Edward Travis conducted a study to find what kind of effect an audience has on an individual. Travis used an eye–hand coordination test (holding a flexible pointer on a revolving target) for his study. Twenty freshmen males, one sophomore male, and one junior male were used as the subjects. The small audience consisted of four to eight upper classmen and graduate students and was an equal number of men and women. Each observer practiced in the presence of the experimenter, and their learning curve was plotted each day. When the subject attained his maximum efficiency, the passive audience was brought in. Some of the subjects showed superior coordination when the audience was present.\n\nIn June 1980, Forgas et al. conducted a field study of audience effects, looking at the performance of expert and novice squash players when observed by no audience, a male audience, and a female audience. Contrary to Zajonc's drive-arousal theory, it was found that the effect of an audience on performance did not differ significantly between novice and expert players. This indicates that the other factors, such as cognitive variables and players' interpretation of the audience's presence, also influence players' reactions to the presence of an audience in a natural setting.\n\nIn 1982, people playing pool were being surreptitiously watched in order to identify skilled and unskilled players. Skilled players made at least two-thirds of their shots whereas unskilled players missed at least two-thirds of their shots. When the observer moved closer to the pool table and continued to watch, skilled players' performance improved by 14% and the unskilled players' performance dropped by more than 30%.\n\nIn 2007, Rosenbloom et al. studied archival data from Jerusalem in 2004 and found that the presence of an additional person in the car during a driving license test decreased the likelihood that the testee would pass the driving test. Although the nature of the study made it impossible to distinguish one explanation of social facilitation from another, the findings generally support the basic premise of social facilitation theory.\n\nIn 2008, college students were given a list of words and told to copy them as quickly as they could. The \"easy task\" was to write out one list with their dominant hand and the \"hard task\" was to write out another list with their nondominant hand. While completing the task, they were in the presence of an image of their favorite television personality (displayed on a computer screen) or an image of another character from the same show. When given the easy task, they wrote more words in the presence of their favorite character and when given the hard task, the favorite character inhibited their performance. As shown, while the college students were given tasks, their favorite television characters are perceived as \"real\" in a social facilitation paradigm which gives evidence as to how social facilitation can affect performance.\n\nIn 2008, Hill, Hanton, Matthews, and Fleming studied sub-optimal performance in spots, also known as the phenomenon of \"choking\". They determined that when individuals were worried about negative evaluations by the audience, and performing tasks that they were not familiar with, they often would perform at a lower level than when they did without an audience.\n\nIn 2011, Anderson-Hanley, Snyder, Nimon, and Arciero found that older adults riding \"cybercycles\", virtual-reality enhanced stationary bikes with interactive competitions, exercised at higher rates than adults riding stationary bikes.\n\nIn 2012, Muryama and Elliot conducted a meta-analysis where they found that the effects on performance commonly attributed to competition are actually due to performance goals. Competition prompts either performance-approach goals, which are what facilitate performance improvements, or performance-avoidance goals, which undermine performance.\n\nSocial facilitation in animals is when the performance of a behaviour by an animal increases the probability of other animals also engaging in that behaviour or increasing the intensity of the behaviour. In 1969, Zajonc, Heingartner, and Herman demonstrated that social facilitation occurs not only in humans, but also in species with limited or no cognitive processing. They observed that it takes a cockroach a longer time to complete a complex maze in the presence of other cockroaches than when alone. They also observed that in a simple, straight runway, a cockroach reaches the end of the runway faster in the presence of other cockroaches than when alone. This experiment lends support to the theory that physiological arousal resulting from the presence of others leads to similar social facilitation effects in animals as well.\n\nIn 2009, Dindo, Whiten, and de Waal studied the effect of social facilitation in capuchin monkeys. The monkeys in this study were required to complete a new foraging task, either alone or in a social group. While both sets of monkeys completed the task, those in the social group completed it three times faster than those monkeys that were alone. This increase in speed was attributed to \"observational learning and synchronization of behavior between group mates.\"\n\nResearchers have used electronic performance monitoring (EPM) to examine the effects of social facilitation. This trend had previously been limited to face-to-face or group settings, but electronic performance monitoring establishes the impact of social facilitation in a virtual sense. EPM is the utilization of information technologies (e.g. computer networks) to track, evaluate, analyze, and report information regarding an employee's performance. Many businesses have adopted this method in which workers activity is automatically monitored throughout the workday. This topic is of substantial interest to those in the field of social psychology due to underlying mechanism at work; namely, the phenomenon of social facilitation.\n\nOne study found that EPM did enhance productivity, but only in ways that are consistent with the effects of social facilitation. Employees working on a data entry task were monitored while working alone, with others, or as part of a cohesive group. Results indicated that EPM improved the performance of highly skilled workers, but interfered with the performance of those who were less skilled. Moreover, with the exception of those working in a cohesive group, monitoring was found to increase workers' feelings of stress and anxiety. On the other hand, participants responded more favorably to performance monitoring when they believed that they could turn off the monitoring and that only their job-related activities were being evaluated. Also, EPM was viewed more positively when workers were given the opportunity to participate in decisions regarding the use of the system. Results support that the effect of social facilitation is not just limited to the physical presence of others, but also extends to presence in a virtual sense as well.\n\nIn 2009, Thompson, Sebastienelli and Murray conducted an experiment to determine the effect of electronic monitoring on students who used web-based training to learn new online search skills. They found that participants who were explicitly told that their training was being monitored performed markedly worse on a post-training skills test than participants who were unaware that their training was being monitored. These findings adhere to the basic premise of social facilitation and reveal that the heightened awareness of evaluation on complex tasks significantly hinders performance.\n\nGroups are formed in a variety of educational settings around the world. Some examples include a group of physics students completing a laboratory exercise, a team of touch rugby players, a set of high school prefects, a group of students formed to brainstorm ideas for energy saving techniques, and study groups.\n\nSome groups enhance members' motivation and help students stay focused on their academic goals. However, a study group may inhibit the acquisition of new information, concepts, and skills, as the presence of others can be distracting. These distractions can interfere during the early phases of learning, both in overt and covert practicing. In a study in which participants had to learn a list of words, they were too embarrassed to rehearse the material out aloud and as a consequence of this group pressure, their performance suffered.\n\nZajonc suggested that the student study alone, preferably in an isolated cubicle, and arrange to write examinations surrounded by many other students, on stage, and in the presence of a large audience. The results of the examination would be beyond the student's wildest expectations, assuming that the material had been thoroughly learned beforehand.\n\nContributing factors to the audience effect could include what kind of crowd is present, such as a supportive crowd (e.g., the crowd at a team's home ground) or a hostile crowd (e.g., the crowd when a team is playing an away game). Also, the proximity of the crowd or the size of the crowd could influence the result of the audience effect. More factors such as nature of the task, coping skills with potential negative effects of audience, and even the playing venue (home or away) could be things to consider when examining the audience effect.\n\nSocial facilitation is a widespread phenomenon in society. Many public tasks demonstrate the effects, both the costs and benefits, of social facilitation. From taking exams in a high school or college environment to performing in sporting events, people may perform better or fall short depending on the task's complexity. In many experiments, people display signs of social facilitation even in everyday tasks, such as driving. This effect can even be seen in animals, as displayed by Zajonc, Heingarter, and Herman's study on cockroaches.\n\nBusiness can also use social facilitation to their advantage, specifically in online auctions, which takes into the account the emergence of instant messaging and communication availability technologies. The interaction between buyers and sellers in traditional, face-to-face markets creates phenomena such as social facilitation, where the presence of others impacts behaviour and performance. In the study involving Java-based Internet Dutch auction, the findings indicated that social facilitation does indeed occur and participants improve their results and stay longer in the auction under conditions of higher virtual presence. Participants also indicate a preference for auction arrangements with higher degrees of virtual presence.\n\nSocial facilitation's definition and explanations are not without controversy. Social psychologists first debate whether social facilitation in humans can be through mere presence, or whether it must be through evaluation. It was concluded that although the influence of the mere presence of others can be easily concealed by many other complex social factors, it is one of the variables that contributes to the power of others to influence an individual's performance.\n\nOne of the greatest controversies surrounding social facilitation is its origination. Psychologists continue to debate whether social facilitation is adopted through the innate biology of humans and animals, or through social learning, either from interaction with society or from individual interaction with other people, and not society in general. Further research and expansion of experiments and theories may begin to resolve, or further complicate, these issues.\n\nIn light of certain weaknesses and inadequacies of drive theory explanation, social facilitation is argued to be in need for a more cognitive approach. A more cognitive model constructed in an expectancy theory framework is shown as a plausible alternative explanation for employee performance and the effects of social facilitation. While there is not much evidence presented by this controversy it is recommended that direction of future research should test this model.\n\nFurthermore, there is difficulty in determining which social facilitation approach is the most accurate. The biggest conflict comes between the activation (or mere presence) and evaluation approaches, with the activation approach stating that the mere presence of an audience leads to social facilitation, and the evaluation approach stating that it is the fear of being judged by a capable audience that leads to social facilitation. Despite the two clearly conflicting schools of thought, researchers have not been able to conclusively prove which one is correct.\n\n"}
{"id": "806188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806188", "title": "Stepan Bandera", "text": "Stepan Bandera\n\nStepan Andriyovych Bandera (, ; 1 January 1909 – 15 October 1959) was a head of a militant wing of Ukrainian independence movement and a leader of the terrorist activity of Ukrainian nationalists.\n\nBorn in Austrian Galicia, into the family of a Greek-Catholic priest, he became nationalistic from an early age. After the dissolution of Austria-Hungary Galicia became a short-lived West Ukrainian People's Republic, but was quickly annexed by Poland and was subjected to an extensive campaigns of Polonization and Pacification. He became radicalised during this time, and after Polish authorities refused his request to leave for Czechoslovakia for studying, he enrolled in Lviv Polytechnic where he organized several nationalistic organizations. He was imprisoned in 1934 and was sentenced to death, but his sentence was quickly commuted to life imprisonment. He escaped prison in 1939 when the Second Polish Republic collapsed after the joint Nazi-Soviet invasion and moved to the German-occupied zone.\n\nWhen Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union he allied himself with them, but after he attempted to proclaim an independent Ukrainian state, the Gestapo put him under house arrest on 5 of July 1941 and later, between 1942 and 1943, sent him to the Sachsenhausen concentration camp. In 1944, with Germany rapidly losing ground in the war in the face of the advancing Allied armies, Bandera was released, in the hope that he would be instrumental in deterring the advancing Soviet forces. He set up the headquarters of the re-established Ukrainian Supreme Liberation Council in Berlin, but fled when the Soviet forces advanced to the city. He settled with his family in West Germany where he remained the leader of the OUN-B and worked with several anti-communist organizations such as the Anti-Bolshevik Bloc of Nations as well as with the British intelligence agencies. Fourteen years after the end of the war, in 1959, Bandera was assassinated by KGB agent Bohdan Stashynsky in Munich.\n\nOn 22 January 2010, the outgoing President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, awarded Bandera the posthumous title of Hero of Ukraine. The European Parliament condemned the award; so did Russian, as did Polish and Jewish politicians and organizations. The incoming president, Viktor Yanukovych, declared the award illegal, since Bandera was never a citizen of the Ukraine, a stipulation necessary for getting the award. This announcement was confirmed by a court decision in April 2010. In January 2011 the award was officially annulled.\n\nBandera remains a highly controversial figure in Ukraine, with some hailing him as a liberator who fought both the Soviets and the Nazis while trying to establish an independent Ukraine, while others consider him to be a Nazi collaborationist and a war criminal who was, together with his followers, largely responsible for the Volhynian genocide and partially for the Holocaust in Ukraine.\n\nBandera was born in Uhryniv Staryi, Galicia, Austria-Hungary. He attended the Fourth Form Grammar School in Stryi. After graduation from high school in 1927, he planned to attend the Ukrainian College of Technology and Economics in Podebrady in Czechoslovakia, but the Polish authorities did not grant him travel papers.\n\nIn 1928, Bandera enrolled in the agronomy program at the Lviv Polytechnic (then Politechnika Lwowska).—one of the few programs open to Ukrainians at the time. This was due to restrictions placed on minority enrollment—aimed primarily at Jews and Ukrainians—in both secondary schools (\"gymnasia\") and university level institutions by the Polish government.\nStepan Bandera had met and associated himself with members of a variety of Ukrainian nationalist organizations throughout his schooling—from Plast, to the Union for the Liberation of Ukraine () and also the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists (OUN) (). The most active of these organizations was the OUN, and the leader of the OUN was Andriy Melnyk.\n\nBecause of his determined personality, Stepan Bandera quickly rose through the ranks of these organizations, becoming the chief propaganda officer of the OUN in 1931, the second in command of OUN in Galicia in 1932–33, and the head of the National Executive or the OUN in 1933.\n\nFor Bandera, an inclusive policy of nation building was important and therefore, he focused on growing support amongst all classes of Ukrainians in Western parts of Ukraine. In the early 1930s, Bandera was very active in finding and developing groups of Ukrainian nationalists in both Western and Eastern Ukraine.\n\nStepan Bandera became head of the OUN national executive in Galicia in June 1933. He expanded the OUN's network in the Kresy, directing it against both Poland and the Soviet Union. To stop expropriations, Bandera turned OUN against the Polish officials who were directly responsible for anti-Ukrainian policies. Activities included mass campaigns against Polish tobacco and alcohol monopolies and against the denationalization of Ukrainian youth. He was arrested in Lviv in 1934, and tried twice: first, concerning involvement in a plot to assassinate the minister of internal affairs, Bronisław Pieracki, and second at a general trial of OUN executives. He was convicted of terrorism and sentenced to death.\n\nThe death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. He was held in Wronki Prison; in 1938 some of his followers tried unsuccessfully to break him out of the jail.\n\nAccording to various sources, Bandera was freed in September 1939, either by Ukrainian jailers after Polish jail administration left the jail, by Poles or by the Nazis soon after the German invasion of Poland.\n\nSoon thereafter Eastern Poland fell under Soviet occupation. Upon release from prison, Bandera moved to Kraków, the capital of Germany's occupational General Government. There, he came in contact with the leader of the OUN, Andriy Melnyk. In 1940, the political differences between the two leaders caused the OUN to split into two factions—the Melnyk faction led by Andriy Melnyk, which preached a more conservative approach to nation-building, (also known as the OUN-M), and the Bandera faction led by S. Bandera, which supported a revolutionary approach, (also known as the OUN-B).\n\nBefore the independence proclamation of 30 June 1941, Bandera oversaw the formation of so-called \"Mobile Groups\" () which were small (5–15 members) groups of OUN-B members who would travel from General Government to Western Ukraine and after German advance to Eastern Ukraine to encourage support for the OUN-B and establishing the local authorities ruled by OUN-B activists.\n\nIn total, approximately 7,000 people participated in these mobile groups, and they found followers among a wide circle of intellectuals, such as Ivan Bahriany, Vasyl Barka, Hryhorii Vashchenko, and many others.\n\nOUN leaders Andriy Melnyk and Bandera were recruited before World War II into the Nazi Germany military intelligence Abwehr for espionage, counter-espionage and sabotage. Their goal was to run diversion activities after Germany's attack on the Soviet Union. Melnyk was given code name 'Consul I'. This information is part of the testimony that Abwehr Colonel Erwin Stolze gave on 25 December 1945 and submitted to the Nuremberg trials, with a request to be admitted as evidence.\n\nIn the spring of 1941, Bandera held meetings with the heads of Germany's intelligence, regarding the formation of \"Nachtigall\" and \"Roland\" Battalions. In spring of that year the OUN received 2.5 million marks for subversive activities inside the USSR.\n\nGestapo and Abwehr officials protected Bandera followers, as both organizations intended to use them for their own purposes.\n\nOn 30 June 1941, with the arrival of Nazi troops in Ukraine, Bandera and the OUN-B declared an independent Ukrainian State (\"Act of Renewal of Ukrainian Statehood\"). This declaration was accompanied by violent porgoms. Some of the published proclamations of the formation of this state say that it would \"work closely with the National-Socialist Greater Germany, under the leadership of its leader Adolf Hitler which is forming a new order in Europe and the world and is helping the Ukrainian People to free itself from Moscovite occupation.\" – as stated in the text of the \"Act of Proclamation of Ukrainian Statehood\".\n\nBandera's expectation that Nazi regime would \"post factum\" recognize an independent fascist Ukraine as the Axis ally proved to be wrong. In 1941 relations between Nazi Germany and the OUN-B had soured to the point where a Nazi document dated 25 November 1941 stated that \"... the Bandera Movement is preparing a revolt in the Reichskommissariat which has as its ultimate aim the establishment of an independent Ukraine. All functionaries of the Bandera Movement must be arrested at once and, after thorough interrogation, are to be liquidated...\". On 5 July, Bandera was transferred to Berlin. On 12 July, the prime minister of the newly formed Ukrainian National Government, Yaroslav Stetsko, was also arrested and taken to Berlin. Although released from custody on 14 July, both were required to stay in Berlin. On 15 September 1941 Bandera and leading OUN members were arrested by the Gestapo.\n\nIn January 1942, Bandera was transferred to Sachsenhausen concentration camp's special barrack for high-profile political prisoners Zellenbau.\n\nIn April 1944, Bandera and his deputy Yaroslav Stetsko were approached by an Reich Main Security Office official to discuss plans for diversions and sabotage against the Soviet Army.\n\nIn September 1944 Bandera was released by the German authorities, and collaboration between OUN and Nazi Germany resumed at several levels; it continued until the end of the war. With German consent, Bandera set up headquarters in Berlin.\n\nAccording to Stephen Dorril, author of \"MI6: Inside the Covert World of Her Majesty's Secret Intelligence Service\", OUN-B was re-formed in 1946 under the sponsorship of MI6. The organization had been receiving some support from MI6 since the 1930s. One faction of Bandera's organization, associated with Mykola Lebed, became more closely associated with the CIA. Bandera himself was the target of an extensive and aggressive search carried out by CIC. It failed having described the objective as \"extremely dangerous\" and \"constantly en route, frequently in disguise\". Some American intelligence reported that he even was guarded by former SS men. His organization perpetrated many crimes, including hundred of thousands of murders, counterfeiting, and kidnapping. After the Bavarian state government initiated a crackdown on it, Bandera agreed with the BND offering them his service, despite CIA warning the West Germans against cooperating with him.\n\nIn May 1941 at a meeting in Kraków the leadership of Bandera's OUN faction adopted the program \"Struggle and action for OUN during the war\" () which outlined the plans for activities at the onset of the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union and the western territories of the Ukrainian SSR. Section G of that document –\"Directives for organizing the life of the state during the first days\" () outline activity of the Bandera followers during summer 1941. In the subsection of \"Minority Policy\" the OUN-B ordered the removal of hostile Poles, Jews, and Russians via deportation and the destruction of their respective intelligentsias, stating further that the \"so-called Polish peasants must be assimilated\" and to \"destroy their leaders.\"\n\nIn late 1942, when Bandera was in a German concentration camp, his organization, the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists, was involved in a Massacres of Poles in Volhynia, and in early 1944, ethnic cleansings also spread to Eastern Galicia. It is estimated that more than 35,000 and up to 60,000 Poles, mostly women and children along with unarmed men, were killed during the spring and summer campaign of 1943 in Volhynia, and up to 100,000 if other regions (Eastern Galicia) are included.\n\nDespite the central role played by Bandera's followers in the massacre of Poles in western Ukraine, Bandera himself was interned in a German concentration camp when the concrete decision to massacre the Poles was made and when the Poles were killed. According to Yaroslav Hrytsak, during his internment, from the summer of 1941, he was not completely aware of events in Ukraine and moreover had serious differences of opinion with Mykola Lebed, the OUN-B leader who remained in Ukraine and who was one of the chief architects of the massacres of Poles. Bandera was thus not directly involved in those massacres.\n\nUnlike competing Polish, Russian, Hungarian or Romanian nationalisms in late imperial Austria, imperial Russia, interwar Poland and Romania, Ukrainian nationalism did not include antisemitism as a core aspect of its program and saw Russians as well as Poles as the chief enemy with Jews playing a secondary role. Nevertheless, Ukrainian nationalism was not immune to the influence of the antisemitic climate in the Eastern and Central Europe, that had already become highly racialized in the late 19th century, and had developed an elaborate anti-Jewish discourse.\n\nHostility to both the Soviet central government and the Jewish minority were highlighted at the OUN-B's Conference in Kraków in May 1941, at which the leadership of Bandera's OUN faction adopted the program \"Struggle and action of OUN during the war\" () which outlined the plans for activities at the onset of the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union and the western territories of the Ukrainian SSR. The program declared that:\n\nThe Jews in the USSR constitute the most faithful support of the ruling Bolshevik regime, and the vanguard of Muscovite imperialism in Ukraine. The Muscovite-Bolshevik government exploits the anti-Jewish sentiments of the Ukrainian masses to divert their attention from the true cause of their misfortune and to channel them in a time of frustration into pogroms on Jews. The OUN combats the Jews as the prop of the Muscovite-Bolshevik regime and simultaneously it renders the masses conscious of the fact that the principal foe is Moscow.\n\nSection G of the program – \"Directives for organizing the life of the state during the first days\" () outlined activity of the Bandera followers during mid-1941. In a subsection on \"Minority Policy\", the leaders of OUN-B ordered:\n\nMoskali [i.e. ethnic Russians], Poles, and Jews that are hostile to us are to be destroyed in struggle, particularly those opposing the regime, by means of: deporting them to their own lands, eradicating their intelligentsia, which is not to be admitted to any governmental positions, and overall preventing any creation of this intelligentsia (e.g. access to education etc)... Jews are to be isolated, removed from governmental positions in order to prevent sabotage... Those who are deemed necessary may only work under strict supervision and removed from their positions for slightest misconduct... Jewish assimilation is not possible.\n\nLater in June, Yaroslav Stetsko sent to Bandera a report in which he stated \"We are creating a militia which will help to remove the Jews and protect the population.\" Leaflets spread in the name of Bandera in the same year called for the \"destruction\" of \"Moscow\", Poles, Hungarians and Jewry. In 1941–1942 while Bandera was cooperating with the Germans, OUN members did take part in anti-Jewish actions. German police at 1941 reported that \"fanatic\" Bandera followers, organised in small groups were \"extraordinarily active\" against Jews and communists.\n\nHowever, when Bandera was in conflict with the Germans, the UPA under his authority sheltered Jews, and included some Jewish fighters and medical personnel. In the official organ of the OUN-B's leadership, instructions to OUN groups urged those groups to \"liquidate the manifestations of harmful foreign influence, particularly the German racist concepts and practices.\" Several Jews took part in Bandera's underground movement, including one of Bandera's close associates Richard Yary who was also married to a Jewish woman. Another notable Jewish UPA member was Leyba-Itzik \"Valeriy\" Dombrovsky. (While two Karaites from Galicia, Anna-Amelia Leonowicz (1925–1949) and her mother, Helena (Ruhama) Leonowicz (1890–1967), are reported to have become members of OUN, oral accounts suggest that both women collaborated not of their own free will, but following threats from nationalists.) By 1942, Nazi officials had concluded that Ukrainian nationalists were largely indifferent to Jews and were willing to both help them or kill them, if either better served the nationalist cause. A report, dated 30 March 1942, sent to the Gestapo in Berlin, claimed that \"the Bandera movement provided forged passports not only for its own members, but also for Jews.\" The false papers were most likely supplied to Jewish doctors or skilled workers who could be useful for the movement.\n\nOn 15 October 1959, Stepan Bandera collapsed outside of Kreittmayrstrasse 7 in Munich and died shortly thereafter. A medical examination established that the cause of his death was poison by cyanide gas. On 20 October 1959, Stepan Bandera was buried in the Waldfriedhof Cemetery in Munich. His grave was desecrated on 17 August 2014 by unknown vandals, who toppled the 1.8 m cross.\n\nTwo years after his death, on 17 November 1961, the German judicial bodies announced that Bandera's murderer had been a KGB defector named Bohdan Stashynsky who acted on the orders of Soviet KGB head Alexander Shelepin and Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev. After a detailed investigation against Stashynsky, a trial took place from 8 to 15 October 1962. Stashynsky was convicted, and on 19 October he was sentenced to eight years in prison.\n\nBandera's brother Aleksandr (who had a PhD in Political Economy from the University of Rome) and brother Vasyl (a graduate in Philosophy, Lviv University) were arrested by Germans and interned in Auschwitz, where they were allegedly killed by Polish inmates in 1942.\n\nAndriy Bandera, Stepan's father, was arrested by Soviets in late May 1941 for harboring an OUN member and transferred to Kiev. On 8 July he was sentenced to death and executed on the 10th. His sisters Oksana and Marta–Maria were arrested by the NKVD in 1941 and sent to a GULAG in Siberia. Both were released in 1960 without the right to return to Ukraine. Marta–Maria died in Siberia in 1982, and Oksana returned to Ukraine in 1989 where she died in 2004. Another sister, Volodymyra, was sentenced to a term in Soviet labor camps from 1946–1956. She returned to Ukraine in 1956.\n\nThe Soviet Union actively campaigned to discredit Bandera and all other Ukrainian nationalist partisans of World War II.\n\nIn an interview with Russian newspaper \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" in 2005, former KGB Chief Vladimir Kryuchkov claimed that \"the murder of Stepan Bandera was one of the last cases when the KGB disposed of undesired people by means of violence.\"\n\nIn late 2006 the Lviv city administration announced the future transference of the tombs of Stepan Bandera, Andriy Melnyk, Yevhen Konovalets and other key leaders of OUN/UPA to a new area of Lychakivskiy Cemetery specifically dedicated to victims of the repressions of the Ukrainian national liberation struggle.\n\nIn October 2007, the city of Lviv erected a statue dedicated to Bandera. The appearance of the statue has engendered a far-reaching debate about the role of Stepan Bandera and UPA in Ukrainian history. The two previously erected statues were blown up by unknown perpetrators; the current is guarded by a militia detachment 24/7. On 18 October 2007, the Lviv City Council adopted a resolution establishing the \"Award of Stepan Bandera.\"\n\nOn 1 January 2009 his 100th birthday was celebrated in several Ukrainian centres and a postage stamp with his portrait was issued the same day.\n\nOn 1 January 2014 Bandera's 105th birthday was celebrated by a torchlight procession of 15,000 people in the centre of Kiev and thousands more rallied near his statue in Lviv. The march was supported by the far-right Svoboda party and some members of the center-right Batkivshchyna.\n\nBandera continues to be a divisive figure in Ukraine. Although Bandera is venerated in certain parts of western Ukraine, and 33% of Lviv's residents consider themselves to be followers of Bandera, in surveys of Ukraine as a whole he, along with Joseph Stalin and Mikhail Gorbachev, is considered among the three historical figures who produce the most negative attitudes. A national survey conducted in Ukraine in 2009 inquired about attitudes by region towards Bandera's faction of the OUN. It produced the following results: In Galicia (provinces of Lviv, Ternopil, and Ivano-Frankivsk) 37% had a \"very positive\" opinion of Bandera, 26% a \"mostly positive\" opinion, 20% were \"neutral\", 5% \"mostly negative\", 6% \"very negative\", and 6% \"unsure\". In Volhynia, 5% had a very positive opinion, 20% a mostly positive opinion, 57% were neutral, 7% were mostly negative, 5% very negative and 6% were unsure. In Transcarpathia 4% of the respondents had a very positive opinion, 32% a mostly positive opinion, 50% were neutral, none had a mostly negative opinion, 7% had a very negative opinion and 7% were unsure. In contrast, in central Ukraine (comprising the capital Kiev, as well as the provinces of Zhytomyr, Cherkasy, Chernihiv, Poltava, Sumy, Vinnytsia, and Kirovohrad) attitudes towards Bandera's faction of the OUN were 3% very positive, 10% mostly positive, 24% neutral, 17% mostly negative, 21% very negative and 25% unsure. In Eastern Ukraine (the provinces of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kharkiv, Dnipropetrovsk and Zaporizhia) 1% each had very positive or mostly positive attitudes towards Bandera's OUN, 19% were neutral, 13% mostly negative, 26% very negative and 20% unsure. In Ukraine's south (the Odessa, Mykolaiv and Kherson regions plus Crimea) 1% each were very or mostly positive, 13% were neutral, 31% mostly negative, 48% very negative and 25% were unsure. In Ukraine as a whole, 6% of Ukrainians had a very positive opinion, 8% a mostly positive opinion, 23% were neutral, 15% had a mostly negative opinion, 30% had a very negative opinion, and 18% were unsure.\n\nDuring the 2014 Crimean crisis and unrest in Ukraine, pro-Russian Ukrainians, Russians (in Russia) and some Western authors alluded to the (in their opinion) bad influence of Bandera on Euromaidan protesters and pro-Ukrainian Unity supporters in justifying their actions. Russian media used this to justify Russia's actions. Putin welcomed the annexation of Crimea by declaring that he \"was saving them from the new Ukrainian leaders who are the ideological heirs of Bandera, Hitler's accomplice during World War II\". Pro-Russian activists claimed \"Those people in Kiev are Bandera-following Nazi collaborators\". And Ukrainians living in Russia complained of being labelled a \"Banderite\" (even when they were from parts of Ukraine where Bandera has no popular support). Groups who do idolize Bandera did take part in the Euromaidan protests, but were a minority element.\n\nOn 22 January 2010, on the \"Day of Unity of Ukraine\", the then-President of Ukraine Viktor Yushchenko awarded to Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine (posthumously) for \"defending national ideas and battling for an independent Ukrainian state.\" A grandson of Bandera, also named Stepan, accepted the award that day from the Ukrainian President during the state ceremony to commemorate the \"Day of Unity of Ukraine\" at the National Opera House of Ukraine.\n\nReactions to Bandera's award vary. This award has been condemned by the Simon Wiesenthal Center and the Student Union of French Jews. On the same day, numerous Ukrainian media, such as the Russian language \"Segodnya\", published articles in that regard mentioning the case of Yevhen Berezniak, a widely known Ukrainian Soviet World War II veteran, considering to renounce his own Hero of Ukraine title. The representatives from several antifascist organizations in neighboring Slovakia condemned the award to Bandera, calling Yushchenko's decision a provocation was reported by RosBisnessConsulting referring to Radio Praha. On 25 February 2010, the European Parliament criticized the decision by then president of Ukraine, Yushchenko to award Bandera the title of Hero of Ukraine and expressed hope it would be reconsidered. On 14 May 2010 in a statement, the Russian Foreign Ministry said about the award: \"that the event is so odious that it could no doubt cause a negative reaction in the first place in Ukraine. Already it is known a position on this issue of a number of Ukrainian politicians, who believe that solutions of this kind do not contribute to the consolidation of Ukrainian public opinion\".\n\nOn the other hand, the decree was applauded by Ukrainian nationalists, in western Ukraine and by a small portion of Ukrainian-Americans.\n\nOn 9 February 2010, the Poland's Senate Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz said at a meeting with the head of Russia's Federation Council Sergei Mironov, that adaptation of the Hero title of Ukraine to Bandera is an internal matter of the Ukrainian government.\n\nOn 3 March 2010, the Ivano-Frankivsk regional council called on the European Parliament to review this resolution.\n\nTaras Kuzio, a senior fellow in the chair of Ukrainian studies at the University of Toronto, has suggested Yushchenko awarded Bandera the award in order to frustrate Yulia Tymoshenko's chances to get elected President during the Ukrainian Presidential elections 2010.\n\nPresident Viktor Yanukovych stated on 5 March 2010 he would make a decision to repeal the decrees to honor the title as Heroes of Ukraine to Bandera and fellow nationalist Roman Shukhevych before the next Victory Day, although the Hero of Ukraine decrees do not stipulate the possibility that a decree on awarding this title can be annulled. On 2 April 2010, an administrative Donetsk region court ruled the Presidential decree awarding the title to be illegal. According to the court's decision, Bandera wasn't a citizen of the Ukrainian SSR (vis-à-vis Ukraine).\n\nOn 5 April 2010, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine refused to start constitutional proceedings on the constitutionality of the President Yushchenko decree the award was based on. A ruling by the court was submitted by the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea on 20 January 2010.\n\nIn January 2011, the presidential press service informed that the award was officially annulled. This was done after a cassation appeals filed against the ruling by Donetsk District Administrative Court was rejected by the Higher Administrative Court of Ukraine on 12 January 2011. Former President Yushchenko called the annulment \"a gross error\".\n\nThere are Stepan Bandera museums in Dubliany, Volia-Zaderevatska, Staryi Uhryniv, and Yahilnytsia. There is a Stepan Bandera Museum of Liberation Struggle in London, part of the OUN Archive, and The Bandera's Family Museum (Музей родини Бандерів) in Stryi.\n\nMonuments dedicated to Stepan Bander have been constructured in a number of western Ukrainian cities, including Staryi Uhryniv, Kolomyia, Drohobych, Zalishchyky, Mykytyntsi, Uzyn, Lviv, Buchach, Hrabivka, Horodenka, Staryi Sambir, Ternopil, Ivano-Frankivsk, Strusiv, Truskavets, Horishniy, Velykosilky, Sambir, Velyki Mosty, Skole, Turka, Zdolbuniv, Chortkiv, Sniatyn, and in such cities and villages as Berezhany, Boryslav, Chervonohrad, Dubliany, Kamianka-Buzka, Kremenets, Mostyska, Pidvolochysk, Seredniy Bereziv, Terebovlia, Verbiv, and Volia-Zaderevatska.\n\nIn 2010 and 2011, Bandera was named an honorary citizen of a number of western Ukrainian cities, including Khust, Nadvirna, Ternopil, Ivano-Frankivsk, Lviv, Kolomyia, Dolyna, Varash, Lutsk, Chervonohrad, Terebovlia, Truskavets, Radekhiv, Sokal, Stebnyk, Zhovkva, Skole, Berezhany, Sambir, Boryslav, Brody, Stryi, and Morshyn.\n\nThere are Stepan Bandera streets in Lviv (formerly Mury street), Lutsk (formerly Suvorovska street), Rivne (formerly Moskovska street), Kolomyia, Ivano-Frankivsk, Chervonohrad (formerly Nad Buhom street), Berezhany (formerly Cherniakhovskoho street), Drohobych (formerly Sliusarska street), Stryi, Kalush, Kovel, Volodymyr-Volynskyi, Horodenka, Dubrovytsia, Kolomyia, Dolyna, Iziaslav, Skole, Shepetivka, Brovary, and Boryspil,\nand a Stepan Bandera prospect in Ternopil (part of the former Lenin prospect). On 16 January 2017 the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance stated that of the 51,493 streets, squares and \"other facilities\" that had been renamed (since 2015) due to decommunization 34 streets were named after Stepan Bandera. Due to \"association with the communist totalitarian regime\", the Kiev City Council on 7 July 2016 voted 87 to 10 in favor of supporting renaming Moscow Avenue to Stepan Bandera Avenue.\n\nTwo feature films have been made about Bandera – \"Assassination: An October Murder in Munich\" (1995) and \"The Undefeated\" (2000), both directed by Oles Yanchuk – along with a number of documentary films.\n\n"}
{"id": "28521958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28521958", "title": "Streetlight effect", "text": "Streetlight effect\n\nThe streetlight effect, or the drunkard's search principle, is a type of observational bias that occurs when people only search for something where it is easiest to look. Both names refer to a well-known joke:\n\nThe anecdote goes back at least to the 1920s,\nand has been used metaphorically in the social sciences since at least 1964, when Abraham Kaplan referred to it as \"the principle of the drunkard's search\". The anecdote has also been attributed to Nasreddin. According to Idries Shah, this tale is used by many Sufis, commenting upon people who seek exotic sources for enlightenment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43598835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43598835", "title": "Sunshine list", "text": "Sunshine list\n\nA sunshine list is a listing of salary, benefit and severance information. In Canada, the list is commonly used for example by provincial or municipal governments to identify any publicly employed person making $100,000 salary or higher. The purpose of the list is to provide accountability and transparency, requiring \"organizations that receive public funding from the Province of Ontario to disclose annually the names, positions, salaries and total taxable benefits of employees paid $100,000 or more in a calendar year.\"\n\nAlberta first started publishing a sunshine list in 2014 following the 2012 election of Alison Redford. The introduction of the list followed public debate about the severance awarded to Redford's former chief of staff. In Alberta, the policy applies to deputy ministers, senior officials, political staff appointed under the Executive Assistant Order and employees defined under the Public Service Act who work for the offices of ministers and associate ministers, and who make an annual base salary of at least $100,000. The government began disclosing base salaries, benefit and severance amounts, and details of contract and termination agreements beginning on 31 January 2014. Information was to be posted online twice annually no later than 30 June and 31 December and included all staff employed as of 23 April 2012.\n\nOntario introduced the sunshine list in 1996 under the Mike Harris government.\n\nWhile intended as an accountability tool, the lists have been used for other purposes. \"Maclean's\" magazine, for example, has used the list to examine employment equity in academia.\n\nIn 2011, Chris Mazza, President and CEO of Ornge, managed to stay off the sunshine list while making $1.4 million per year in a controversial scandal.\n\nSearch the Ontario sunshine list\n"}
{"id": "37650785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37650785", "title": "Theodore W. Allen", "text": "Theodore W. Allen\n\nTheodore William \"Ted\" Allen (August 23, 1919January 19, 2005) was an American intellectual, writer, and activist, best known for his pioneering writings since the 1960s on \"white skin privilege\" and the \"invention\" of the white race, particularly his seminal \"Class Struggle and the Origin of Racial Slavery: The Invention of the White Race,\" published as a pamphlet in 1975, and published the next year in expanded form. He stressed that the white race was invented as \"a ruling class social control formation.\"\n\nAn independent, working-class scholar, Allen did research for the next quarter century to expand and document his ideas, particularly on the relation of white supremacy to the working class. He published a two-volume work, \"The Invention of the White Race\" (1994 and 1997): \"The Invention of the White Race,\" Vol. 1: \"Racial Oppression and Social Control\" (1994, 2012) and \"The Invention of the White Race,\" Vol. 2: \"The Origin of Racial Oppression in Anglo-America\" (1997, 2012); which explored racial oppression as a system of social control (in Volume 1) and the origin of racial oppression in Anglo-America (in Volume 2). It was republished by Verso Books in a new expanded edition in November 2012.\n\nTheodore William Allen was born into a middle-class family in Indianapolis, Indiana. He had a sister Eula May and brother Tom; their parents were Thomas E. Allen, a sales manager, and Almeda Earl Allen, a housewife. The family moved when he was a child to Paintsville, Kentucky, and then to Huntington, West Virginia, where he lived and, in his words, \"was proletarianized\" during the Great Depression. When Allen started working soon after high school (deciding that college did not do enough for independent thought), he quickly joined labor unions.\n\nAllen became an early activist and organizer in the labor movement. At age 17, he joined the American Federation of Musicians Local 362 and the Communist Party, and soon was elected as a delegate to the Huntington Central Labor Union, AFL. He subsequently worked as a coal miner in West Virginia as a member of the United Mine Workers, serving as an organizer and president of one Local and later member of another. He also co-developed a trade union organizing program for the Marion County, West Virginia Industrial Union Council, CIO.\n\nIn the 1940s Allen moved to New York City, a center for labor activism and intellectual work. He did industrial economic research at the Labor Research Association, based in the city. He taught economics at the Jefferson School of Social Science, founded in New York by the Communist Party in 1944. Allen taught there into the 1950s, when the school closed, due to declining membership in the party and pressure from scrutiny by the House Un-American Activities Committee (HUAC) of Congress, which was conducting hearings during the McCarthy era.\n\nAllen also taught math at the Crown Heights Yeshiva in Brooklyn, where he lived, and the Grace Church School in New York. During his more than six decades in New York, Allen had a variety of jobs, from factory worker to retail clerk, mechanical design draftsman, postal mail handler (and member of the Local of the National Postal Mail Handlers Union), and librarian at the Brooklyn Public Library.\n\nBeginning in 1965, he was published as an independent scholar. He conducted decades of research to develop his ideas about the labor, class and racial history of the United States.\n\nIn 1965 Allen published articles on the concept of white skin privilege for all classes of whites, examining the relation of the working class to white supremacy. He explored this in \"\"White Blindspot\" and \"Can White Workers Radicals Be Radicalized?\"\" (1967, 1967), co-authored with Noel Ignatiev.\n\nAfter beginning his research on \"white skin privilege\" in 1965, Allen worked for the next decade to develop more research and writing on this topic. He published \"Class Struggle and the Origin of Racial Slavery: The Invention of the White Race\" (1975). During this time, he also taught as an adjunct history instructor for one semester at Essex County Community College in Newark, New Jersey. He was described by historian Jeffrey B. Perry as working \"throughout his entire adult life ... for the emancipation of the working class and for socialism.\"\n\nHis work since the 1960s was intended to overturn explanations for white supremacy that relied on biology or attributed it to benefits gained by the working class. Allen emphasized that the \"invention of the white race\" was related to class struggle and to ruling class efforts to maintain social control.\n\nAllen published outside the academic press and his work was highly influential, at a time of the civil rights movement, when issues of race, ethnicity and culture were being studied and overturned. He also documented how later Irish immigrants to the U.S. became \"white.\" The concept of \"race\" was also being overturned by work in anthropology, genetics, biology, history and other disciplines. By 1997, historian George M. Fredrickson of Stanford University wrote that \"the proposition that race is 'a social and cultural construction,' has become an academic cliché,\" but Allen was not satisfied with that proposition and he emphasized that \"the 'white race' must be understood, not simply as a social construct (rather than an genetic phenomenon), but as a ruling class social control formation.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54428296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54428296", "title": "Todhri alphabet", "text": "Todhri alphabet\n\nThe Todhri alphabet is an 18th-century Albanian alphabet invented for writing the Albanian language by Dhaskal Todhri (born Theodor (Todhri) Haxhifilipi). It is a complex writing system of fifty-two characters which was used sporadically for written communication in and around Elbasan from the late eighteenth century on. The Todhri alphabet was discovered in Elbasan by Johann Georg von Hahn (1811–1869) who published it in 1854 his work Albanesische Studien in Jena. He considered it to be 'the original' Albanian alphabet and a derivative of ancient Phoenician script. Leopold Geitler (1847–1885) and Slovenian scholar Rajko Nahtigal (1877–1958) subsequently studied the alphabet, concluding that it was derived primarily from the Roman cursive.\n\nThe earliest existing text in Todhri's script is Radhua Hesapesh (daybook) of a local merchant partnership known as Jakov Popa i Vogël dhe Shokët (Jakov Popa Junior and Friends). The entries in Todhri's script start on 10 August 1795 and continue until 1797.\n\n"}
{"id": "7843744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7843744", "title": "Transcendental apperception", "text": "Transcendental apperception\n\nIn philosophy, Kantian transcendental apperception is that which Immanuel Kant thought makes experience possible. It is where the self and the world come together.\n\nTranscendental apperception is the uniting and building of coherent consciousness out of different elementary inner experiences (differing in both time and topic, but all belonging to self-consciousness). E.g. the experience of \"passing of time\" relies on this transcendental unity of apperception, according to Kant.\n\nThere are six steps to transcendental apperception:\n\n\nThe term was later adapted in psychology by Johann Friedrich Herbart, see Apperception.\n\n"}
{"id": "855329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=855329", "title": "Turn (geometry)", "text": "Turn (geometry)\n\nA turn is a unit of plane angle measurement equal to 2 radians, 360 degrees or 400 gradians. A turn is also referred to as a cycle (abbreviated cyc), revolution (abbreviated rev), complete rotation (abbreviated rot) or full circle.\n\nSubdivisions of a turn include half turns, quarter turns, centiturns, milliturns, points, etc.\n\nA turn can be divided in 100 centiturns or milliturns, with each milliturn corresponding to an angle of 0.36°, which can also be written as 21′ 36″. A protractor divided in centiturns is normally called a percentage protractor.\n\nBinary fractions of a turn are also used. Sailors have traditionally divided a turn into 32 compass points. The \"binary degree\", also known as the \"binary radian\" (or \"brad\"), is turn. The binary degree is used in computing so that an angle can be represented to the maximum possible precision in a single byte. Other measures of angle used in computing may be based on dividing one whole turn into 2 equal parts for other values of \"n\".\n\nThe notion of turn is commonly used for planar rotations.\n\nThe word turn originates via Latin and French from the Greek word ( – a lathe).\n\nIn 1697, David Gregory used (pi over rho) to denote the perimeter of a circle (i.e., the circumference) divided by its radius. However, earlier in 1647, William Oughtred had used (delta over pi) for the ratio of the diameter to perimeter. The first use of the symbol on its own with its present meaning (of perimeter divided by diameter) was in 1706 by the Welsh mathematician William Jones. Euler adopted the symbol with that meaning in 1737, leading to its widespread use.\n\nPercentage protractors have existed since 1922, but the terms centiturns and milliturns were introduced much later by Fred Hoyle.\n\nThe German standard DIN 1315 (1974-03) proposed the unit symbol \"pla\" (from Latin: \"plenus angulus\" \"full angle\") for turns. Since 2011, the HP 39gII and HP Prime support the unit symbol \"tr\" for turns. In 2016, support for turns was also added to newRPL for the HP 50g. In June 2017, for release 3.6, the Python programming language adopted the name \"tau\" to represent the number of radians in a turn.\n\nThe standard ISO 80000-3:2006 mentions that the unit name revolution with symbol r is used with rotating machines, as well as using the term \"turn\" to mean a full rotation. The standard IEEE 260.1:2004 also uses the unit name rotation and symbol \"r\".\n\nOne turn is equal to 2 (≈ ) radians.\n\nIn 2001, Robert Palais proposed using the number of radians in a turn as the fundamental circle constant instead of , which amounts to the number of radians in half a turn, in order to make mathematics simpler and more intuitive. His proposal used a \"pi with three legs\" symbol to denote the constant (formula_1 = 2).\n\nIn 2010, Michael Hartl proposed to use tau to represent Palais' circle constant: . He offered two reasons. First, is the number of radians in \"one turn\", which allows fractions of a turn to be expressed more directly: for instance, a  turn would be represented as  rad instead of  rad. Second, visually resembles , whose association with the circle constant is unavoidable. Hartl's \"Tau Manifesto\" gives many examples of formulas that are asserted to be clearer where tau is used instead of pi.\n\nThe -functionality is made available in the Google calculator and in several programming languages like Python, Perl, Processing, and Nim. It has also been used in at least one mathematical research article, authored by the -promoter \n\nHowever, none of these proposals have received widespread acceptance by the mathematical and scientific communities.\n\n\nIn kinematics, a turn is a rotation less than a full revolution.\nA turn may be represented in a mathematical model that uses expressions of complex numbers or quaternions. In the complex plane every non-zero number has a polar coordinate expression where and \"a\" is in .\nA turn of the complex plane arises from multiplying by an element that lies on the unit circle:\nFrank Morley consistently referred to elements of the unit circle as \"turns\" in the book \"Inversive Geometry\", (1933) which he coauthored with his son Frank Vigor Morley.\n\nThe Latin term for \"turn\" is versor, which is a quaternion that can be visualized as an arc of a great circle. The product of two versors can be compared to a spherical triangle where two sides add to the third. For the kinematics of rotation in three dimensions, see quaternions and spatial rotation.\n\n"}
{"id": "555390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555390", "title": "Type conversion", "text": "Type conversion\n\nIn computer science, type conversion, type casting, and type coercion are different ways of changing an entity of one data type into another. An example would be the conversion of an integer value into a floating point value or its textual representation as a string, and vice versa. Type conversions can take advantage of certain features of type hierarchies or data representations. Two important aspects of a type conversion is whether it happens \"implicitly\" or \"explicitly\", and whether the underlying data representation is converted from one representation into another, or a given representation is merely \"reinterpreted\" as the representation of another data type. In general, both primitive and compound data types can be converted.\n\nEach programming language has its own rules on how types can be converted. Languages with strong typing typically do little implicit conversion and discourage the reinterpretation of representations, while languages with weak typing perform many implicit conversions between data types. Weak typing language often allow forcing the compiler to arbitrarily interpret a data item as having different representations—this can be a non-obvious programming error, or a technical method to directly deal with underlying hardware.\n\nIn most languages, the word \"coercion\" is used to denote an \"implicit\" conversion, either during compilation or during run time. For example, in an expression mixing integer and floating point numbers (like 5 + 0.1), the compiler will automatically convert integer representation into floating point representation so fractions are not lost. Explicit type conversions are either indicated by writing additional code (e.g. adding type identifiers or calling built-in routines) or by coding conversion routines for the compiler to use when it otherwise would halt with a type mismatch.\n\nIn most ALGOL-like languages, such as Pascal, Modula-2, Ada and Delphi, \"conversion\" and \"casting\" are distinctly different concepts. In these languages, \"conversion\" refers to either implicitly or explicitly changing a value from one data type storage format to another, e.g. a 16-bit integer to a 32-bit integer. The storage needs may change as a result of the conversion, including a possible loss of precision or truncation. The word \"cast\", on the other hand, refers to explicitly changing the \"interpretation\" of the \"bit pattern\" representing a value from one type to another. For example, 32 contiguous bits may be treated as an array of 32 booleans, a 4-byte string, an unsigned 32-bit integer or an IEEE single precision floating point value. Because the stored bits are never changed, the programmer must know low level details such as representation format, byte order, and alignment needs, to meaningfully cast.\n\nIn the C family of languages and ALGOL 68, the word \"cast\" typically refers to an \"explicit\" type conversion (as opposed to an implicit conversion), causing some ambiguity about whether this is a re-interpretation of a bit-pattern or a real data representation conversion. More important is the multitude of ways and rules that apply to what data type (or class) is located by a pointer and how a pointer may be adjusted by the compiler in cases like object (class) inheritance.\n\nImplicit type conversion, also known as \"coercion\", is an automatic type conversion by the compiler. Some programming languages allow compilers to provide coercion; others require it.\n\nIn a mixed-type expression, data of one or more subtypes can be converted to a supertype as needed at runtime so that the program will run correctly. For example, the following is legal C language code:\n\nAlthough , , and belong to different data types, they will be automatically converted to equal data types each time a comparison or assignment is executed. This behavior should be used with caution, as unintended consequences can arise. Data can be lost when converting representations from floating-point to integer, as the fractional components of the floating-point values will be truncated (rounded toward zero). Conversely, precision can be lost when converting representations from integer to floating-point, since a floating-point type may be unable to exactly represent an integer type. For example, might be an IEEE 754 single precision type, which cannot represent the integer 16777217 exactly, while a 32-bit integer type can. This can lead to unintuitive behavior, as demonstrated by the following code:\n\nOn compilers that implement floats as IEEE single precision, and ints as at least 32 bits, this code will give this peculiar print-out:\n\nNote that 1 represents equality in the last line above. This odd behavior is caused by an implicit conversion of to float when it is compared with . The conversion causes loss of precision, which makes the values equal before the comparison.\n\nImportant takeaways:\n\n\nOne special case of implicit type conversion is type promotion, where the compiler automatically expands the binary representation of objects of integer or floating-point types. Promotions are commonly used with types smaller than the native type of the target platform's arithmetic logic unit (ALU), before arithmetic and logical operations, to make such operations possible, or more efficient if the ALU can work with more than one type. C and C++ perform such promotion for objects of boolean, character, wide character, enumeration, and short integer types which are promoted to int, and for objects of type float, which are promoted to double. Unlike some other type conversions, promotions never lose precision or modify the value stored in the object.\n\nIn Java:\nExplicit type conversion is a type conversion which is explicitly defined within a program (instead of being done by a compiler for implicit type conversion). It is defined by the user in the program.\n\nThere are several kinds of explicit conversion.\n\n\nIn object-oriented programming languages, objects can also be downcast : a reference of a base class is cast to one of its derived classes.\n\nIn C#, type conversion can be made in a safe or unsafe (i.e., C-like) manner, the former called \"checked type cast\".\n\nIn C++ the similar effect can be achieved using \"C++-style cast syntax\".\n\nIn Eiffel the notion of type conversion is integrated into the rules of the type system. The Assignment Rule says that an assignment, such as:\n\nis valid if and only if the type of its source expression, codice_1 in this case, is \"compatible with\" the type of its target entity, codice_2 in this case. In this rule, \"compatible with\" means that the type of the source expression either \"conforms to\" or \"converts to\" that of the target. Conformance of types is defined by the familiar rules for polymorphism in object-oriented programming. For example, in the assignment above, the type of codice_1 conforms to the type of codice_2 if the class upon which codice_1 is based is a descendant of that upon which codice_2 is based.\n\nThe actions of type conversion in Eiffel, specifically \"converts to\" and \"converts from\" are defined as:\nA type based on a class CU \"converts to\" a type T based on a class CT (and T \"converts from\" U) if either\n\nEiffel is a fully compliant language for Microsoft .NET Framework. Before development of .NET, Eiffel already had extensive class libraries. Using the .NET type libraries, particularly with commonly used types such as strings, poses a conversion problem. Existing Eiffel software uses the string classes (such as codice_7) from the Eiffel libraries, but Eiffel software written for .NET must use the .NET string class (codice_8) in many cases, for example when calling .NET methods which expect items of the .NET type to be passed as arguments. So, the conversion of these types back and forth needs to be as seamless as possible.\n\nIn the code above, two strings are declared, one of each different type (codice_9 is the Eiffel compliant alias for System.String). Because codice_8 does not conform to codice_7, then the assignment above is valid only if codice_8 converts to codice_7.\n\nThe Eiffel class codice_7 has a conversion procedure codice_15 for objects of type codice_8. Conversion procedures are also always designated as creation procedures (similar to constructors). The following is an excerpt from the codice_7 class:\n\nThe presence of the conversion procedure makes the assignment:\nsemantically equivalent to:\nin which codice_18 is constructed as a new object of type codice_7 with content equivalent to that of codice_20.\n\nTo handle an assignment with original source and target reversed:\nthe class codice_7 also contains a conversion query codice_22 which will produce a codice_8 from an instance of codice_7.\n\nThe assignment:\nthen, becomes equivalent to:\nIn Eiffel, the setup for type conversion is included in the class code, but then appears to happen as automatically as explicit type conversion in client code. The includes not just assignments but other types of attachments as well, such as argument (parameter) substitution.\n\nIn hacking, typecasting is the misuse of type conversion to temporarily change a variable's data type from how it was originally defined. This provides opportunities for hackers since in type conversion after a variable is \"typecast\" to become a different data type, the compiler will treat that hacked variable as the new data type for that specific operation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22185822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22185822", "title": "United States v. Enmons", "text": "United States v. Enmons\n\nUnited States v. Enmons, , was a United States Supreme Court case in which the Court held that the federal Anti-Racketeering Act of 1934, known as the Hobbs Act, does not cover union violence in furtherance of the union's objectives.\n\nThe case involved a labor strike in which members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers (IBEW) fired rifles at three utility company transformers, drained the oil from another, and blew up a company substation. The labor union in question was seeking a higher-pay contract and other benefits from their employer, the Gulf States Utilities Company which is now part of Entergy. The federal government tried the defendants under the Hobbs Act. \n\nThe Court ruled that \"The Hobbs Act, which makes it a federal crime to obstruct interstate commerce by robbery or extortion, does not reach the use of violence (which is readily punishable under state law) to achieve legitimate union objectives, such as higher wages in return for genuine services that the employer seeks.\"\n\nThe indictment against the alleged conspirators charged them with being in violation of the Hobbs Act, which states that anyone attempting to affect or obstruct commerce through violence or the threat of violence against any person or property \"\"shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than twenty years, or both\".\" The indictment argued that the union members obstructed commerce with their actions against the Utilities Company, and attempted to \"obtain the property of [their employer] in the form of wages and other things of value\" by using the wrongful use of force and the fear of economic loss.\n\nThe court acknowledged that using threats and force to obtain property is wrongful. However, the court reasoned that it is considered \"wrongful\" only when the perpetrator has no \"legitimate claim\" to it. Since federal law empowers unions with the right to strike, the use of violence to secure higher pay and benefits was not extortion. The case was dismissed. Such violent acts can, however, be punishable under normal state or federal laws. \n\nIn understanding Enmons, it is important to keep in mind that what the Hobbs Act outlaws is extortion, not just any bad act. Federal law, in particular the National Labor Relations Act, says that collective bargaining and strikes in support of collective bargaining goals are legal and protected. Therefore, since collective bargaining has a purpose that is not extortion, one of the key elements of a Hobbs Act violation is not met.\n\nWhile labor unions as a whole are exempt from prosecution, individual members can still be held accountable and prosecuted according to local laws. However, evidence suggests that this rarely is the case. According to a 1998 policy analysis by the Cato Institute,The result has been an epidemic of union-related violence. The National Institute for Labor Relations Research (NILRR) has recorded 8,799 incidents of violence from news reports since [the Enmons ruling]. Those reports show only 258 convictions, suggesting a conviction rate of less than 3 percent. Moreover, local law enforcement authorities often get many more reports of strike violence than journalists can possibly cover.\n\nSome critics argue that the Enmons decision has been a major factor in increasing corruption among union and government officials alike. Economist and former professor Morgan Reynolds wrote:\nIt is difficult to tell racketeer-controlled unions from other unions, because both types depend on violence and the threat of violence…The plain truth is that our labor laws have arranged incentives so that honest, noncoercive union officials find it difficult to survive in competition with the muscleman types.\n\nHowever, others argue the FUVA has greatly exaggerated the existence of union violence. In a law review article, Julius G. Getman and F. Ray Marshall, The Continuing Assault on the Right to Strike, 79 Tex. L. Rev. 703, 712-13 (2001), law professor Julius Getman and former Secretary of Labor Ray Marshall, analyzed the evidence of union violence.\nThe claim that strike violence is \"escalating\" has no empirical basis. Even the study conducted by the National Institute for Labor Relations Research - cited regularly as authority for this proposition by FUVA's proponents - draws no such conclusion. And the study itself is a scholarly monstrosity that seeks to study union violence by compiling media reports, mainly newspaper articles concerning strike violence. The Institute admits that it did not actually investigate any of the incidents reported and does not know if the reports are accurate. It concludes: \"Because it relies on news accounts the Institute cannot guarantee the accuracy of the file itself.\" In fact, articles about employer-instigated violence are included in the study's effort to determine union violence. n59 It seems obvious that the methodology employed confuses those strikes most written about with those most violent. Further, the Institute includes incidents of \"psychological violence; i.e., intimidation, coercion and verbal threats\" - terms which it does not bother to define. It seems clear, however, that this definition would include nonviolent civil disobedience of the type used by the civil rights movement and increasingly by the labor movement. But whatever the definition, it is almost certain that strike-related violence has decreased since the Enmons decision because the number of strikes has declined significantly.\n\nSince 1973, a number of bills have been proposed to overturn US v. Enmons. The Freedom from Union Violence Act (FUVA) was first introduced as H.R. 1796 on June 8, 1995, and has been reintroduced in every Congress since. None of these bills have made it out of committee.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1018347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018347", "title": "Utility maximization problem", "text": "Utility maximization problem\n\nIn microeconomics, the utility maximization problem is the problem consumers face: \"how should I spend my money in order to maximize my utility?\" It is a type of optimal decision problem.\n\nSuppose the consumer's consumption set, or the enumeration of all possible consumption bundles that could be selected if there were no budget constraint, has \"L\" commodities and is limited to positive amounts of consumption of each commodity. Let \"x\" be the vector \"x\"={\"x\";\"i\"=1...\"L\"} containing the amounts of each commodity; then\n\nSuppose also that the price vector (\"p\") of the \"L\" commodities is positive,\n\nand that the consumer's income is formula_3; then the set of all affordable packages, the budget set, is\n\nwhere formula_5 is the dot product of \"p\" and \"x\", or the total cost of consuming \"x\" of the products at price level \"p\":\n\nThe consumer would like to buy the best affordable package of commodities.\n\nIt is assumed that the consumer has an ordinal utility function, called \"u\". It is a real valued function with domain being the set of all commodity bundles, or\n\nThen the consumer's optimal choice formula_8 is the utility maximizing bundle of all bundles in the budget set, or\n\nFinding formula_8 is the utility maximization problem.\n\nIf \"u\" is continuous and no commodities are free of charge, then formula_8 exists, but it is not necessarily unique. If there is a unique maximizer for all values of the price and wealth parameters, then formula_8 is called the Marshallian demand function; otherwise, formula_8 is set-valued and it is called the Marshallian demand correspondence.\n\nFor a given level of real wealth, only relative prices matter to consumers, not absolute prices. If consumers reacted to changes in nominal prices and nominal wealth even if relative prices and real wealth remained unchanged, this would be an effect called money illusion. The mathematical first order conditions for a maximum of the consumer problem guarantee that the demand for each good is homogeneous of degree zero jointly in nominal prices and nominal wealth, so there is no money illusion.\n\nIn practice, a consumer may not always pick an optimal package. For example, it may require too much thought. Bounded rationality is a theory that explains this behaviour with satisficing—picking packages that are suboptimal but good enough.\n\nThe relationship between the utility function and Marshallian demand in the utility maximization problem mirrors the relationship between the expenditure function and Hicksian demand in the expenditure minimization problem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56551133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56551133", "title": "Vaginal trauma", "text": "Vaginal trauma\n\nVaginal trauma is injury to the vagina. It can happen during childbirth, sexual assault, and accidental occurrences.\n\nThis injury often consists of bruising. But in some cases, severe hemorrhage can be a concern that requires immediate medical attention. In adults, the vagina is largely protected from trauma due to the protective function of the mons pubis and labia majora. This protection is lacking in girls who lack a protective fat layer to protect the vagina. Vaginal trauma can occur when something is inserted into the vagina, for example, a sharp object causing penetrating trauma. Vaginal trauma can occur as a result of a painful sexual experience or sexual abuse. Vaginal trauma can occur in children as a result of a straddle injury. Most of these, though distressing, are not serious injuries.\n\nIn some instances, a severe injury occurs and requires immediate medical attention. Especially if the bleeding won't stop. Vaginal trauma also occurs during an episiotomy and vaginal childbirth. Avoiding vaginal injuries during childbirth will help to prevent depression, hospital readmissions, perineal pain. While also promoting pelvic floor strength, sexual function, and good care for the infant.\n\nSigns and symptoms include:\nabdominal pain,\nbleeding,\nbruising,\nfaintness,\nvaginal discharge,\nembedded object in the vagina,\ngenital pain,\nswelling,\nvomiting,\npainful urination,\ninability to urinate,\npresence of a wound,\nreport of sexual abuse, and\nblood in the urine. A hematoma can form after vaginal trauma. Imaging can identify the presence of the accumulated blood.\n\nDuring childbirth, vaginal or cervical injuries can occur and will likely require surgery to correct them. The vagina is sometimes injured during the course of labor and perineal tears extend from the vagina to various points of the perineum.\n\nNon-obstetric causes include:\nsexual assault,\nfracture of the pelvis,\nforeign object inserted into the vagina,\njet ski and water-skiing accidents.\n\nRisk factors include:\nfirst episode of consensual intercourse,\n￼￼ breastfeeding,\n￼￼ menopause,\nand medication side effects.\n\nA safe environment can be created for young children in addition to keeping small objects out of reach.\n\nTreatment begins with a thorough assessment. The presence of someone to provide support during the examination is very beneficial. Such support is especially prioritized in cases of vaginal trauma due to sexual assault. A support person provides emotional support and can help minimize the risk of re-traumatization. Those treating victims employ sexual assault nurse/forensic examiners (SAN/FEs) with specific training to care for those who have experienced rape or sexual assault. They are able to conduct a focused medical-legal exam. If such a trained clinician is not available, the emergency department has a sexual assault protocol that has been established for treatment and the collection of evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "1725943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1725943", "title": "White power skinhead", "text": "White power skinhead\n\nWhite power skinheads are members of a white supremacist and antisemitic offshoot of the skinhead subculture. Many of them are affiliated with white nationalist organizations. \n\nIn the United States, the majority of white power skinhead groups are organized at either the state, county, city or neighborhood level. The Hammerskin Nation (HSN) is one of the few exceptions, due to its international presence.\n\nThe original skinhead subculture started in the late 1960s and had heavy British mod and Jamaican rude boy influences — including an appreciation for the black music genres ska, soul music and early reggae. The identity of skinheads in the 1960s was neither based on white power nor neo-nazism or neo-fascism, but some skinheads (including black skinheads) had engaged in \"gay-bashing\", \"hippie-bashing\" and/or \"Paki-bashing\" (violence against Pakistanis and other Asian immigrants). This began after Enoch Powell's inflammatory Rivers of Blood speech in 1968, which unleashed \"Paki-bashing\" violence, often referred to as \"skinhead terror\" in the media, with the \"Paki-bashers\" often simply called \"skinheads\".\n\nThe original skinhead scene had mostly died out by 1972, but a late-1970s revival emerged partly as a backlash against the commercialization of punk rock. This revival coincided with the development of the Oi! music genre. The late-1970s skinhead revival in Britain included a sizable white nationalist faction, involving organizations such as the National Front, British Movement, Rock Against Communism and — in the late 1980s — Blood and Honour. Because of this, the mainstream media began to label the whole skinhead identity as neo-Nazi.\nThe racist faction of the skinhead subculture eventually spread to North America, Europe and other areas of the world. White power skinhead groups such as the Hammerskins emerged, and racist skinheads gained acceptance among other organized white power organizations such as the Church of the Creator, White Aryan Resistance and the Ku Klux Klan. In 1988, there were approximately 2,000 neo-Nazi skinheads in the United States. \n\nIn 1995, neo-Nazi skinheads Malcolm Wright Jr. and James N. Burmeister were charged with the murder of an African American couple in North Carolina. Wright and Burmeister were in the United States Army, and part of Fort Bragg's 82nd Airborne Division. Wright and Burmeister were both arrested at a trailer park where police found a 9-mm semiautomatic pistol, a Nazi flag, white supremacist pamphlets, and other gang paraphernalia. Both men were sentenced to life in prison.\n\nAccording to a 2007 report by the Anti-Defamation League, groups such as white power skinheads, neo-Nazis, and the Ku Klux Klan have been growing more active in the United States, with a particular focus on opposition to illegal immigration.\n\nSkinheads of all types are known for wearing Dr. Martens or combat-style boots, flight jackets, jeans and suspenders (also known as braces). Some white power skinheads wear badges, chains or rings featuring Nazi or white power emblems. Many punk-influenced Oi! skinheads dress similarly to white power skinheads, without the racist or neo-Nazi symbols. \n\nIn contrast to the 1960s-style mod-influenced Trojan skinheads, white power skinheads have typically worn higher boots, T-shirts, flight jackets and army trousers or jeans instead of Sta-Prest trousers or suits. Some white power or moderately right-wing/nationalist skinheads may dress quasi-traditional with Fred Perry or button down shirts and Harrington or denim jackets. They usually crop their hair shorter than the 1960s-style skinheads — often to grade 0 length — or they shave their heads completely with a razor. White power skinheads tend to have more tattoos than the skinheads of the 1960s, many of whom had no tattoos at all. These tattoos often feature Nazi, racist, or nationalistic imagery. Rune symbols as well as Nordic, Celtic and Germanic artwork are also common themes.\n\nIn Germany, Spain and the Netherlands, the Lonsdale clothing brand has been popular among some neo-Nazi skinheads. This was partly because the four middle letters of Lonsdale, \"NSDA\", are almost the same as the abbreviation for the name of Adolf Hitler's political party, the Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (NSDAP). The Lonsdale brand has been popular with non-racist skinheads for decades, and the company has sponsored anti-racist events and campaigns, and has refused to deliver products to known neo-Nazi retailers.\n\n\nMusic groups\n\nFilms\n\n\n\nVideo games\n\n\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1230985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1230985", "title": "Zamanfou", "text": "Zamanfou\n\nZamanfou, also known as \"ochaderfismos\" (\"Greek \"Ωχαδερφισμός\"\") is a counterculture phenomenon in Greece which involves social loafing as its principal characteristic.\n\nThe term is derived from the French phrase \"je m'en fous\" (\"foutre\"). The French expression \"Je m'en fous\" became known by the Greeks before World War II, when the French language was the most common foreign language in Greece. It was later adopted into everyday slang vocabulary, with Greek spelling and pronunciation. It is roughly equivalent to the English 'I don't care'.\n\nThe associated term \"ohaderfismos\" derives from the Greek phrase \"oh brother!\" (ωχ αδερφέ!).\n\nAlthough Zamanfou might be considered a social phenomenon in Greece, it is no different from Social loafing, as this appears in other cultures or epochs.\n\n\n"}
