{"id": "5195706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5195706", "title": "Academic Bill of Rights", "text": "Academic Bill of Rights\n\nThe Academic Bill of Rights (ABOR) is a document created and distributed by Students for Academic Freedom (SAF), a public advocacy group spun off from the Center for the Study of Popular Culture, a think tank founded by the conservative writer David Horowitz. The document was created as a foundational part of SAF's mission, to \"end the political abuse of the university and to restore integrity to the academic mission as a disinterested pursuit of knowledge.\"\n\nThe Bill focuses on eight broad-based principles that call for an academic environment where decisions are made irrespective of one's personal political or religious beliefs. The Bill (and its drafting organization) have come under sharp attack, however, for using broad-based egalitarian principles and a self-identified \"bipartisan\" framework to promote what critics identify as an ideological agenda.\n\n\nA number of organizations representing a variety of political viewpoints have expressed pointed critique of both the ABOR's aims and its content.\n\nOne of the first organizations to come out in opposition to the bill was the American Association of University Professors (AAUP). While agreeing with the underlying principles of freedom, equality, and pluralism in the university community, the association said that the bill \"infringes academic freedom in the very act of purporting to protect it.\"\n\nSome individual academics regard the ABOR, along with the Santorum Amendment, as a threat to academic freedom. Others have suggested that the ABOR may allow students to claim discrimination when tested on evolution.\n\nModerate, libertarian, and conservative critics of the ABOR have asserted that it would open the door to a right wing version of the campus speech code. An article by David T. Beito, Ralph E. Luker and KC Johnson in the \"Perspectives\" magazine of the American Historical Association warned that the ABOR \"could snuff out all controversial discussion in the classroom. A campus governed by the ABOR would present professors with an impossible dilemma: either play it safe or risk administrative censure by saying something that might offend an overly sensitive student.\"\nThe American Library Association also opposed the ABOR, with members approving a resolution stating that the Bill \"would impose extra-academic standards on academic institutions, directly interfering in course content, the classroom, the research process, and hiring and tenure decisions.\"\n\nA number of other groups have also opposed the ABOR, including the American Federation of Teachers, the National Coalition Against Censorship (NCAC), and others. Some left-leaning groups, including Refuse and Resist, and the AFL-CIO, expressed concern and criticism of the Bill, particularly warning against the regulatory oversight that the bill would place upon academic institutions, if passed.\n\n"}
{"id": "7574401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7574401", "title": "Acid Rain Program", "text": "Acid Rain Program\n\nThe Acid Rain Program is a market-based initiative taken by the United States Environmental Protection Agency in an effort to reduce overall atmospheric levels of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides, which cause acid rain. The program is an implementation of emissions trading that primarily targets coal-burning power plants, allowing them to buy and sell emission permits (called \"allowances\") according to individual needs and costs. In 2011, the trading program that existed since 1995 was supplemented by four separate trading programs under the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR). On August 21, 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia issued its Opinion and Order in the appeal of the Cross State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) for two independent legal reasons. The stay on CSAPR was lifted in October 2014, allowing implementation of the law and its trading programs to begin.\n\nA 2017 NBER paper found that the \"Acid Rain Program caused lasting improvements in ambient air quality,\" reducing reduced mortality risk by 5% over 10 years.\n\nTitle IV of the 1990 Clean Air Act established the allowance market system known today as the Acid Rain Program. Initially targeting only sulfur dioxide, Title IV set a decreasing cap on total SO emissions for each of the following several years, aiming to reduce overall emissions to 50% of 1980 levels. The program did not begin immediately, but was implemented in two stages: Phase I (starting January 1, 1995) and Phase II (starting January 1, 2000).\n\nThe Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 set as its primary goal the reduction of annual SO emissions by 10 million tons below 1980 levels of about 18.9 million tons. To achieve these reductions by 2000, when a nationwide sulfur dioxide emissions cap of 8.95 million tons per year began, the law required a two phase tightening of operating restrictions placed on fossil fuel fired (e.g., coal, oil, natural gas) power plants. The operation and pricing of a market for emissions allowances would not be viable in the absence of an effective regulatory cap on the total number of allowances available.\n\nIn Phase I, half the total reductions were required by January 1, 1995, largely by requiring 110 electric power generating plants (261 units in 21 states) to cut sulfur dioxide emission rates to 2.5 lbs/million British thermal units (mmBtu). Each of these generating units was identified by name and location, and a quantity of emissions allowances was specified in the statute in tons of allowable SO emissions per year.\n\nFor comparison, new generating units built since 1978 were required to limit sulfur dioxide to a \"lowest achievable emissions rate\" of about 0.6 lbs/mmBtu. Coal with 1.25% sulfur and 10,000 Btu/lb produces sulfur dioxide emissions of 2.5 lbs/mmBtu, with lower emissions produced by either lower sulfur content or higher Btu content.\n\nAs an incentive for reducing emissions, for each ton of sulfur dioxide reduced below the applicable emissions limit, owners of a generating unit received an emissions allowance they could use at another unit, keep for future use, or sell. This legitimized a market for sulfur dioxide emissions allowances, administered by the Chicago Board of Trade. Units that installed flue-gas desulfurization equipment (e.g., scrubbers) or other \"qualifying Phase I technology\" which reduced sulfur dioxide emissions by 90%, qualified for a two-year extension of the 1995 deadline, provided they owned allowances to cover their total actual emissions for each year of the extension period.\n\nIn Phase II, all fossil-fired units over 75 MWe were required to limit emissions of sulfur dioxide to 1.2 lbs/mmBtu by January 1, 2000. Thereafter, they were required to obtain an emissions allowance for each ton of sulfur dioxide emitted, subject to a mandatory fine of $2,000.00 for each ton emitted in excess of allowances held. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) distributes allowances equivalent to 8.95 million tons each year (the emissions cap), based on calculations of historical Btu usage for each unit, and may allocate various small \"bonus reserves\" of allowances.\n\nThe 1990 Amendments also required reductions in nitrogen oxide (NO) emissions at Phase I units. The key factors in NO formation are flame temperature and oxygen levels present for combustion. Installation of low-NO burner retrofits are the most common means of compliance, generally reducing emissions from uncontrolled levels by up to 50%. Many utilities complied with requirements by installing stack-gas scrubbers and low-NO burners at the same time. Low-NO burner technology was readily available, and considerably less expensive than installation of scrubbers, so control of NO was considered less demanding by most electric utilities.\n\nThe market based SO allowance trading component of the Acid Rain Program was intended to allow utilities to adopt the most cost effective strategy to reduce SO emissions. Every Acid Rain Program operating permit outlines specific requirements and compliance options chosen by each source. Affected utilities also were required to install systems that continuously monitor emissions of SO, NO, and other related pollutants in order to track progress, ensure compliance, and provide credibility to the trading component of the program. Monitoring data is transmitted to EPA daily via telecommunications systems.\n\nStrategies for compliance with air quality controls have been major components of electric utility planning and operations since the mid-1970s, affecting choice of fuels, technologies and locations for construction of new generating capacity. Utility strategies for compliance with new sulfur dioxide standards included a mix of options with varying financial costs:\n\n\nSome coal cleaning may occur in combination with other actions such as scrubbing, or blending coals with varying sulfur content, but utilities generally prefer that coal suppliers bear the costs of cleaning operations. Some observers estimated 20% - 30% of the sulfur can be removed through coal cleaning or blending, and 50%–70% taken out with emissions control equipment.\n\nFor Phase II compliance the options were numerous, but for Phase I they were constrained by the time available to implement a decision. Because it takes 3–5 years to design and build a scrubber at an existing coal-fired unit, and longer to repower or build a new facility (e.g., 6–11 years for coal, 10–14 years for nuclear units), electric utility decision options for Phase I plants were limited to scrubbing, switching fuels, purchasing or transferring emissions allowances to allow continued use of high-sulfur coal, retiring units, or trimming unit utilization and substituting capacity from another source.\n\nDelays in allocating \"early scrub\" bonus credits and scheduling of the first auction of emissions allowances in March 1993 effectively removed these incentives from actual compliance decision making of most electric utilities. Because of the time it takes to build air pollution control equipment, financial and contractual commitments to scrubbers had to be made by summer 1992 if plant modifications were to be operational in time to meet new standards in 1995. Thus, decisions had to be made before price and allocation of emissions allowances were known. Consequently, most scrubber projects to meet the 1995 deadline were well under way by fall of 1992.\n\nOf the 261 units at 110 plant locations affected by Phase I emission limitations, five were oil-fired, five coal-fired units were retired, and one coal-fired unit was placed on cold standby status prior to passage of the legislation in 1990. The 6 inactive coal-fired units were statutory recipients of a total of 36,020 tons of Phase I sulfur dioxide emissions allowances.\n\nThis marketable windfall was estimated by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) in 1991 to be worth $665 to $736 per ton, totaling $23.9 to $26.5 million. However, actual purchases of emissions allowances in 1992 were reported at a lower price than expected of $300 per ton. Allowances auctioned in March 1993 sold for $122 to $450 per ton, reducing the windfall from these allowances to $4.4 to $16.2 million. In the interim, owners of one unit retired in 1985, the 119 MWe Des Moines Energy Center, received $93 million in DOE funding for a Clean Coal Technology project to repower with a coal-fired 70 MWe pressurized fluidized-bed combustion unit, bringing it back into production in 1996.\n\nExcluding those 11 units, 250 active coal-fired units at 105 plants in 21 states were subject to Phase I sulfur dioxide emissions reductions in 1995. States having the greatest number of generating units affected by the Phase I requirements were: Ohio (40), Indiana (37), Pennsylvania (21), Georgia (19), Tennessee (19), Kentucky (17), Illinois (17), Missouri (16) and West Virginia (14). Together, Phase I units represented 20% of the 1,250 operable coal-fired generating units in the U.S. in 1990.\n\nThese 250 units had a summer peak generating capability of 79,162 MWe in 1990, with a mean of 317 MWe/unit. This capacity represented about 27% of installed summer coal-fired capability, and about 11.5% of total U.S. installed summer generating capability in 1990. About 207 million tons, almost 90% of the coal purchased by Phase I plants in 1990, produced sulfur dioxide emissions exceeding the 1995 emissions rate of 2.5 lbs/mm Btu using no pollution control equipment.\n\nAge of the 250 Phase I coal units ranged from 17 to 46 years when the standards took effect, with a mean of 34 years. In 1995, 111 active Phase I units (23%) were 35 years of age or older, and only 8 (6%) were less than 20 years old. The average age of 35 coal-fired units retired during 1988-1991 was 44.6 years, with a range of 14–74 years. These units ranged in size from 1-107 MWe summer capability. Several had been on standby (e.g., available for use during regularly scheduled outages of other units for maintenance) for many years prior to retirement. About half (often the older units) were designed to \"cofire\" with natural gas or fuel oil, and could be operated using these fuels instead of coal if desired.\n\nBoth the number and average age of coal-fired units retired increased substantially from 1988 to 1991, indicating utilities were removing very old units from available status that they no longer expected to use, thereby avoiding maintenance costs necessary to keep them on standby. For comparison, the 6 Phase I coal units retired before 1990 ranged in age from 21–35 years when taken out of service, with a mean of 31 years.\n\nAge of these units was significant for several reasons. All of the Phase I units were either built or under construction when the Clean Air Act of 1977 was enacted, and all but eight were built or under construction when the 1970 Act was enacted. Consequently, these units were built when labor costs were significantly less than in the 1990s, and they avoided major investments in pollution control equipment. In the 1990s, these units were often among the least expensive of any operated by their respective owners, in terms of cost per megawatt-hour of energy produced. Compared to other plants on a utility company system, these units provided incentives for their owners to maximize operating time, minimize downtime for repairs or retrofit, and minimize further capital investments in them.\n\nBecause capital in such plants is typically amortized over 20–30 years, investments in most of them were fully recovered by 1995. Justifying large additional capital investments in plants which may have a remaining useful life of 10 years or less, absent reconstruction of boilers, is often difficult. Further, because large coal-fired generating units tend to reach peak operating and combustion efficiencies during the first three years of operation, declining incrementally thereafter throughout their lifetimes, these old plants were among the dirtiest sources of air pollution in the electric utility industry. They were able to operate for many years without substantially reducing emissions, when other plants were required to install \"best available\" air pollution control equipment pursuant to the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977.\n\nSubstantial uncertainties confronted electric utilities when planning compliance strategies. These included the future price and availability of fuels; the value of emissions allowances and operation of markets for them; the manner in which state public utilities commissions and the Internal Revenue Service would allocate the costs of scrubbing or switching fuels and the value of emissions allowances; accounting guidelines, revisions to interstate bulk power sales contracts, and possible intervention by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission in interstate transfers of emissions allowances by multi-state holding companies. Changes in the competitiveness of various generating and pollution control technologies; a myriad of new rule making actions required by the Clean Air Act; and the possibility of new legislation limiting emissions of carbon dioxide, imposing a tax on carbon emissions, or on Btu usage were also of great concern. A final rule easing some uncertainty on continuous emissions monitoring, permit requirements, and operation of the emissions allowance system was not issued until January 1993, well after compliance strategies had to be developed and major investment decisions made.\n\nIn this context, utility executives were required to make investment decisions committing millions of dollars over extended periods. As summarized by one utility manager: \"Major decisions must be made without adequate information or even the ability to obtain adequate information.\" For example, after a protracted struggle involving the Ohio Public Utilities Commission, the Ohio Office of Consumer's Counsel, industrial customers, the Ohio Sierra Club, and the United Mine Workers at American Electric Power Company's affiliate Meigs high-sulfur coal mines, construction of scrubbers by AEP at its two-unit, 2,600 MWe Gavin plant in Ohio were expected to cost about $835 million, reducing sulfur dioxide emissions there by 95%. In February 1993, AEP was still unsure whether it would be allowed by the Ohio Public Utilities Commission to transfer emissions credits from the Gavin scrub to Phase I units in other states. Thus, substantial financial commitments had to be made on the basis of best judgments by utility planners and construction begun in the absence of definitive information or final regulatory approvals.\n\nThe risks associated with such uncertainty stimulated innovation in contracts for purchase of coal by electric utilities. In a buyer's market, utilities renegotiated old contracts and signed new ones with a variety of provisions designed to manage risks and increase flexibility for future decisions. For example, Ohio Edison signed \"high/low\" contracts at the end of 1991 with three coal suppliers. Under these agreements, the utility could elect to shift purchases from high-sulfur to low-sulfur coal produced by the same supplier. The supplier retained the option of continuing to ship high-sulfur coal in lieu of low-sulfur coal if it provided sufficient emissions allowances so this coal could be burned without penalty. In this event, the supplier paid for the allowances, and the utility paid the contract price for lower sulfur coal.\n\nAdditional innovative contract terms under consideration would link price premiums and penalties paid for coal with different levels of sulfur content to changes in the market price of sulfur dioxide emissions allowances; trade emissions allowances to coal suppliers as partial payment for low-sulfur coal; or establish larger variances in quantity and prices for different qualities of coal in a single contract. AMAX Energy purchased an undisclosed number of emissions allowances from Long Island Lighting Company, which it said it would offer in packages with its coal and natural gas contracts. Thus, coal suppliers began participating along with electric utilities as buyers and sellers of marketable sulfur dioxide emissions allowances.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Energy in 1991 estimated the installed retrofit cost per ton of SO pollution control equipment (scrubbers) on existing units would be in the $665– $736/ton range. However, 2005 was the first year the price of an SO allowance reached this level. In December 2005, a few trades were registered at slightly over $1,600/ton. At those rates, it was less expensive to install scrubbers and reduce air pollution than to purchase SO emissions allowances and continue polluting. Subsequently, the market price of SO allowances decreased to around $88/ton in August 2009.\n\nCitizens and groups can purchase sulfur dioxide emissions allowances alongside electric utilities and other producers of air pollution in annual auctions conducted by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and on the Chicago Board of Trade. Each year the U.S. EPA auctions off to the highest bidder about 250,000 pollution allowances that enable their owners to emit one ton of sulfur dioxide.\n\nNo national environmental group has ever bid in the annual EPA Auction, but a small number of local groups have participated for many years, apparently on the theory that reducing the supply of allowances may someday drive up the price of acquiring them. For example, one of the oldest of these groups is the Acid Rain Retirement Fund (A.R.R.F.), a non-profit, all-volunteer, community educational group. A.R.R.F. has raised money and bid alongside polluters since 1995 for as many allowances as their funds can buy. But instead of using or trading them, A.R.R.F. retires them permanently, taking allowances off the market and keeping sulfur dioxide out of the air.\n\nAlong with allowances purchased in prior years, A.R.R.F. in 2013 owns the right to emit 2,826,000 pounds (1,413 tons) of sulfur dioxide per year, plus whatever amount it did not emit under allowances purchased in previous years. Because it did not exercise its right to emit any pollution during 1996–2013, \"banking\" its emissions allowances for the future, A.R.R.F. holds the legal right to emit a total of 4,644,000 pounds—or 2,322 tons—of sulfur dioxide in 2013. That amount will increase by another 100 tons in 2018, when allowances A.R.R.F. purchased in the 7-year advance auction of 2011 are eligible for use.\n\nExamination of EPA Auction results 1993–2013 indicates groups or individuals like A.R.R.F. who purchased emissions allowances for purposes other than releasing air pollution now own the right to emit 3,188 tons per year. Although most have purchased only one or a few tons, this adds up to considerably more than the 760 tons/year allocated by law to the Miami Fort #5 coal-fired generating unit in Ohio.\n\nSince many purchases were made in earlier years, and unused allowances have accumulated, these groups own the right to emit 23,012 tons of sulfur dioxide in 2013. That's more than the annual allocation of allowances to 168 of the 250 dirtiest generating units in the United States (some are allowed to emit almost 95,000 tons/year).\n\nOverall, the Program's cap and trade program has been hailed as successful by the EPA, industry, economists and certain environmental groups such as the Environmental Defense Fund, while skeptical environmentalists have argued that reduction in emissions occurred due to broad trends unconnected to the program. The EPA has used what is called the Integrated Planning Model (IPM) to estimate the effect of the Acid Rain Program (ARP). The output from the model says that annual emissions of sulfur dioxide were reduced by 8 million tons (from 17.3 to 9.3), nitrogen oxides by 2.7 million tons (from 7.6 to 5), and mercury by 10 tons (from 52 to 42). However, it is difficult to estimate the emissions which would have occurred without the ARP. For example, the EPA updated its analysis to reflect the effect of low-sulfur coal becoming more economical due to reduced transportation, leading the EPA to reduce its estimate of the impact of ARP by sulfur dioxide emissions by one million tons.\n\nSince the 1990s, SO emissions have dropped 40%, and according to the Pacific Research Institute, acid rain levels have dropped 65% since 1976. However, although it reduced emissions by 40%, the US Acid Rain Program has not reduced SO emissions as much as the conventional regulation applied in the European Union (EU), which reduced SO emissions by more than 70%. Therefore, the effectiveness of the emissions trading element as a mechanism has been criticised, since the EPA also used regulations to achieve the reductions, as all areas of the country \"had to meet national, health-based, air quality standards that are separate from the Acid Rain Program’s requirements\".\n\nIn 2007, total SO emissions were 8.9 million tons, achieving the program's long-term goal ahead of the 2010 statutory deadline. In 2008, SO emissions dropped even lower—to 7.6 million tons, which was considerably lower than of command-and-control regulations.\n\nThe EPA estimates that by 2010, the overall costs of complying with the program for businesses and consumers will be $1 billion to $2 billion a year, only one fourth of what was originally predicted.\n\nA general issue with cap and trade programs has been overallocation, whereby the cap is high enough that sources of emissions do not need to reduce their emissions. ARP had \"early overallocation\" during Phase I, and this allowed emission sources to \"bank\" their allowances for future years. In Phase II, emission sources drew down their banked allowances. In 2006, emissions were again below the cap, leading to further banking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25435160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25435160", "title": "Applied engineering (field)", "text": "Applied engineering (field)\n\nApplied engineering is the field concerned with the application of management, design, and technical skills for the design and integration of systems, the execution of new product designs, the improvement of manufacturing processes, and the management and direction of physical and/or technical functions of a firm or organization. Applied-engineering degreed programs typically include instruction in basic engineering principles, project management, industrial processes, production and operations management, systems integration and control, quality control, and statistics.\n\nOn completion of an applied engineering program, students will demonstrate the following management competencies that clearly distinguish them from traditional engineering graduates:\n\n• Use appropriate statistical techniques in variable and attribute control charts and in sampling tables for continuous improvement.\n\n• Evaluate and/or implement total quality systems in industry.\n\n• Perform production scheduling, develop and monitor an inventory control system, utilize appropriate production planning techniques, and identify and exhibit key factors in project management.\n\n• Exhibit knowledge of federal and state safety legislation and identify the role of management in an industrial safety program.\n\n• Recognize, evaluate and control varied industrial health and safety hazards.\n\n• Demonstrate knowledge of traditional management functions and practices, including applications and limitations of various management schemes.\n\n• Solve problems in typical industrial organizations, work effectively in teams, and demonstrate knowledge of the managed area of an industrial enterprise.\n\n• Apply business, marketing and economic principles to solve problems.\n\n• Identify responsibility of supervision and management within various industries.\n\n• Demonstrate communication skills, safe and efficient individual and group work habits, leadership within groups and an attitude of cooperation and tolerance.\n\nApplied engineering students specialize with a technical area of study and blend hands-on process experience with theory. Examples of these technical specialties include: automation/robotics, aviation, computer aided drafting & design, electro-mechanical, electronics, construction, graphic communications, manufacturing, nanofabrication.\n\nApplied engineers are employed in a large and wide-array of industries including: manufacturing, construction, transportation, healthcare, printing/publishing and distribution. They are responsible for implementing a design or process improvement. Although a degree in applied engineering is not considered a traditional design engineering degree (those eligible to sit for the Professional Engineering Examination), it is quite common for employers to hire applied engineering and technology graduates with the term \"engineer\" in their job titles. Examples of the use of Applied Engineering titles include: applications engineers, control engineers, manufacturing engineers, process engineers, product engineers, safety engineers, and sales engineers.\n\nGraduates of applied engineering programs are frequently found in management positions due to their coursework, training and experience in Mathematics, economics, statistics, financial accounting, operations management, quality management, industrial safety, and supervision. Common management-related titles may also include: engineering managers, team leaders, plant managers, project managers, supervisors, technical managers.\n\nApplied engineers are prepared to take an engineering design and see it through implementation and execution. They wear many hats in industry, commanding the necessary resources and personnel to contribute to an organization's bottom line.\n\nThe Association of Technology, Management, and Applied Engineering (ATMAE), accredits selected collegiate programs in applied engineering. An instructor or graduate of an applied engineering program may choose to become a certified technology manager (CTM) by sitting for a rigorous exam administered by ATMAE covering production planning and control, safety, quality, and management/supervision.\n\nATMAE program accreditation is recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA) for accrediting Applied Engineering programs. CHEA recognizes ATMAE in the US for accrediting associate, baccalaureate, and master's degree programs in technology, applied technology, engineering technology, and technology-related disciplines delivered by national or regional accredited institutions in the United States.(2011)\n"}
{"id": "42484925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42484925", "title": "Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property", "text": "Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property\n\nThe Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property (ANAGPIC) is an organization comprising universities located in North America that offer graduate programs in the field of art conservation. Each association member's primary mission is to provide education and training in conservation through the awarding of an accredited degree. Since 1974, the conservation graduate programs have held an annual meeting at one of the member programs in order to give current students the opportunity to present current research to their peers.\n\nThe first conference of North American graduate programs in the conservation of art and other cultural property was held in 1974 at the Corning Museum of Glass in response to a flood that damaged the museum's artifact and library collection on June 23, 1972. While only three percent of the museum's glass collection sustained damage, over half of the museum's library holdings were lost or severely devastated. This five-day conference entitled, \"Conservation Seminar on Glass and Library Materials,\" was organized by Dr. Robert H. Brill, the Corning Museum's research scientist. For the first time, this conference brought together students, faculty, conservators, curators, and other museum specialists for several days of lectures and discussions on the field of conservation. Five American programs and a contingent from the Canadian Conservation Institute were in attendance; Cooperstown Graduate Program, Winterthur/University of Delaware, Intermuseum Conservation Association, New York University, Canadian Conservation Institute, and the Fogg Art Museum. Since the Corning Museum conference, annual meetings have become an integral part of ANAGPIC as a way to provide insight into the quality of the education provided by each program represented. Notable conservation professionals also present lectures during the conferences that address a specific area of interest in conservation, such as \"Extreme Conservation\" at the 2014 ANAGPIC conference. These lectures provide students with powerful insight on important issues for their future careers.\n\nThe Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property (ANAGPIC) was founded in May, 1984 by the following organizations: Buffalo State College, State University of New York, Art Conservation Department; Harvard University Art Museums, Straus Center for Conservation and Technical Studies; New York University, Conservation Center, Institute of Fine Arts; Queen’s University, Art Conservation Program; Winterthur/University of Delaware Program in Art Conservation; The University of Texas at Austin, School of Information, Kilgarlin Center for Preservation of the Cultural Record.\n\nThe general purpose of the Association of North American Graduate Programs in the Conservation of Cultural Property (ANAGPIC) is to “help serve the need of the conservation field for well-trained professional conservators by aiding its member training programs to attain their educational objectives.”\n\nIn order for organizations to be eligible for membership, they must have provided conservation training for at least three consecutive years, and they must award a diploma, degree, or certificate formally acknowledged by their parent academic association. Within that parent institution, the member organization must be a distinct program, whose primary mission is conservation education and training. The program's curriculum must have substantial components of problem-solving in conservation and conservation science, and should conform to the AIC Code of Ethics and Guidelines for Practice. The student to faculty ratio must also be no greater than ten students per faculty member, and these faculty members must have professional qualifications to teach conservation at a graduate level. This can be demonstrated through substantial professional recognition through the International Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works (IIC), the American Institute for Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works (AIC), or the Canadian Association of Professional Conservators (CAPC).\n\nAt least one meeting of the ANAGPIC is held annually, normally concurrent with the annual Conference of the Conservation Training Programs, at present held in late spring. Typically, each institution is represented by two student presenters. Other meetings can be called as necessary if agreed to by at least two-thirds of the membership. Each member organization is normally represented by the training program director/chairperson.\n\n Buffalo State College's Art Conservation Department was founded in 1970 as the Cooperstown Graduate Program in the Conservation of Historic and Artistic Works, affiliated with the State University of New York College at Oneonta and with the New York State Historical Association in Cooperstown. In 1983, the program transferred to Buffalo State College, and then relocated to its campus in 1987. Since its founding, Buffalo State offers a master of arts degree and certificate of advanced study in art conservation upon the completion of a three-year graduate program which trains conservators of fine art and material cultural heritage. This program accepts only 10 students per academic year. Buffalo State is the largest four-year college of arts and sciences in the State University of New York (SUNY) system. Buffalo State's campus also hosts the Burchfield Penney Art Center and located across the street from the Albright-Knox Art Gallery.\n\nProgram Overview\n\nArt Conservation, M.A., C.A.S.\n\n\nAdmission Requirements\n\nThe following admission requirements represent the minimum qualifications a potential student must meet in order to be considered for a graduate program in art conservation at Buffalo State.\n\n\nSelected applicants are invited to Buffalo for an hour-long interview, scheduled for late March or early April of each year. Interviewees are asked to present a portfolio of artwork and a summary of their conservation experience, usually through a power point presentation. A color perception test is also administered.\n\nOverview\n\nThe Straus Center for Conservation and Technical Studies provides analysis and treatments for the Harvard Art Museums’ collection, consisting of more than 250,000 objects in all media, ranging in date from antiquity to the present. The Department of Technical Studies became the first institution in the United States to use scientific methods to study artists’ materials and techniques when it was founded in 1928 by Edward W. Forbes, director of Harvard University’s Fogg Museum. In 1994, the center was renamed the Straus Center for Conservation and Technical Studies in honor of Philip A. and Lynn Straus, who were longtime benefactors of the Harvard Art Museums. In 1972, with the support from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Straus Center began their Advanced-Level Training Program which provides formal hands-on training in the conservation of works on paper, paintings, and objects and sculpture, as well as in conservation science. They offer three 10-month fellowships each year in which fellows can refine their practical and analytical skills through the examination and treatment of works of art from the Harvard Art Museums' collections. Fellows also have the chance to publish their original research.\n\nThe Conservation Center of the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University (NYU) was founded in 1960 with support from the Rockefeller Foundation. Since that time, the program has called for equal measures of art historical study, scientific training, and practical conservation experience. The goal was to produce a professional who would approach each object as an individual entity. The solution to an object's condition issues would be determined through research and study, unlike the tradesman restorer’s approach, which applied standard treatments to objects and problems. Unlike other conservation graduate programs, NYU awards a four-year, dual-degree graduate program where students earn both their Master’s in art history and Advanced Certificate in conservation. The Conservation Center is also the oldest degree-granting conservation program in North America.\n\nProgram Overview\n\nArt History, M.A. with Advanced Certificate in Conservation\n\n\nAdmission Requirements\n\nThe following admission requirements represent the minimum qualifications a potential student must meet in order to be considered for the conservation graduate program at the Institute of Fine Arts, NYU.\n\n\nSelected applicants are invited to NYU for an interview, during which they present evidence of their familiarity with as wide a range of artists’ materials and techniques through a portfolio of relevant studio arts and, if applicable, prior conservation work. The portfolio comprises a maximum of five studio pieces and no more than one treatment. Artist portfolios can contain examples of both traditional and non-traditional artists' techniques.\n\n Since its founding in 1974, the Master of Art Conservation Program (MAC) at Queen's University in Kingston has offered the only full-time graduate-level training program in the field of art conservation in Canada. The MAC program's treatment stream is completed in two years and allows students to specialize in one of the following: treatment of artifacts, paintings, or paper. Each student chooses a specialization upon acceptance into the program. Students in the treatment streams have the opportunity to work with the humanities, science, and engineering departments at Queen’s to undertake projects with museums, galleries, archives, the Canadian Conservation Institute, and industrial partners. Along with the treatment stream, the MAC program also offers a two-year research stream to science and engineering graduates, which would ultimately lead to a career in conservation science. Students in the research stream complete original research and a thesis surrounding topics such as the history of technology or other conservation-related areas.\n\nProgram Overview\n\nMaster of Art Conservation, M.A.C.\n\n\nAdmission Requirements\n\nThe following admission requirements represent the minimum qualifications a potential student must meet in order to be considered for the Master in Art Conservation Treatment Stream at Queen's University.\n\n\nApplicants who are offered an admissions interview are required to present a portfolio of their conservation and studio work.\n\nIn 1999, Getty Conservation Institute and University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) formally announced their intention to work together in creating a graduate-level program in archaeological and ethnographic conservation that could complement existing programs and expand educational opportunities. Students are provided with a solid educational base and a developed appreciation of the complex range of issues relating to significance, access, and use of these materials. The UCLA/Getty Master's Program on the Conservation of Archaeological and Ethnographic Materials is the only graduate conservation training program on the west coast of the United States, as well as the only program to focus primarily on archeological and ethnographic materials. Unlike the other programs offered in North America, the UCLA/Getty program only admits students every two years, with an incoming class size between six and twelve students.\n\nProgram Overview\n\nArt Conservation, M.A.\n\n\nAdmission Requirements\n\nThe following admission requirements represent the minimum qualifications a potential student must meet in order to be considered for the conservation graduate program at UCLA/Getty.\n\n\nApplicants who are offered an admissions interview are required to present a portfolio of their conservation and studio work that demonstrates an understanding of the characteristics of materials and dexterity in their handling, fabrication, and preservation.\n\n The University of Delaware Art Conservation Department offers preservation degrees at the undergraduate, Master's, and PhD levels, including an undergraduate degree in Art Conservation offered at the Newark campus; a three-year Master's of Science in Art Conservation offered in collaboration between the University of Delaware & Winterthur Museum; and doctoral program in Preservation Studies in collaboration with the Center for Material Culture Studies at the University of Delaware. In January 1969, the Winterthur Board of Trustees approved the creation of a coordinated program in museum conservation that would utilize Winterthur's conservation laboratories and the science and humanities departments at the University of Delaware. The Winterthur/University of Delaware Program in Art Conservation (WUDPAC) is a three-year Masters-level Program leading to a Master of Science in Art Conservation. Currently, the Crowninshield Research Building of the Winterthur Museum houses 26 conservation studios, laboratories, examination rooms, and workshops used by faculty and students in the graduate programs, as well as the Winterthur Scientific Research and Analysis Laboratory equipped with state-of-the-art analytical instrumentation.\n\nProgram Overview \n\nArt Conservation, M.S.\n\n\nAdmission Requirements\n\nThe following admission requirements represent the minimum qualifications a potential student must meet in order to be considered for the conservation graduate program at Winterthur/University of Delaware.\n\n\nApplicants who reach the final stages of evaluation will be invited for an in-person interview, at which time they will present a portfolio of both two- and three-dimensional objects that demonstrate their art and crafts skills and their conservation experiences. During their time at Winterthur, applicants are also required to take a standardized test for alternate color vision, an examination of their freehand drawing skills, a one-hour chemistry exam, and complete a written opinion piece.\n\nThe annual meetings held by the current member organizations of ANAGPIC have become an eagerly anticipated event among students, faculty, and speakers. They not only provide a venue for students to present current research to their peers, but to also build camaraderie among the students \"that becomes the foundation of their future collegial relationships as practicing professionals.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18620895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18620895", "title": "Aureus University School of Medicine", "text": "Aureus University School of Medicine\n\nAureus University School of Medicine (previously named All Saints University of Medicine) is a private university located in Oranjestad, Aruba, in the Caribbean. Aureus confers upon its graduates the Doctor of Medicine (MD) degree.\n\nAureus University School of Medicine was founded in 2004 in Aruba. On January 4, 2011, the school announced it was changing its name from All Saints University of Medicine to coincide with facility enhancements and to distinguish itself from universities with the same name. The current campus was completed in 2006 and contains 12 lecture rooms.\n\nAureus offers a 4 year and 5 year MD degree program. The 4 year MD program is a 10 semester course of study that consists of three semesters per calendar year; the 5 year MD program includes an additional 3 semesters of pre-medical coursework. Semesters 1-4 of the MD program are basic sciences semesters that are completed at the university's Aruba campus. Semester 5 (Introduction to Clinical Medicine) is completed in White Plains, NY. Semesters 6-10 consist of 72-80 weeks of clinical study that are completed at affiliated hospitals in the United States, Canada, India, and the Caribbean.\n\nAureus University School of Medicine is chartered in and recognized by the government of Aruba. Aureus is listed in the FAIMER International Medical Education Directory (IMED) and in the AVICENNA Directory for medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "34756240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34756240", "title": "Australian Institute of Business", "text": "Australian Institute of Business\n\nThe Australian Institute of Business, commonly known as AIB, is a graduate business school based in Adelaide, South Australia. It is registered by the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA). All of AIB’s programmes are fully accredited within the Australian Qualifications Framework.\n\nAIB is “the first and still the only private institution in Australia to be accredited to confer the full suite of business degrees”, offering programmes including the Master of Business Administration (MBA), Master of Management (MMgt), Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) and Doctor of Philosophy in Management (PhD).\n\nAIB began as a management consulting firm before transitioning to offer higher education in Australia and around the world. Formerly known as the Gibaran Learning Group, the Australian Institute of Business amalgamated its institutes, including the Gibaran Graduate School of Business, the Australian Institute of Business Administration, the Tourism Institute of Australia, and the Entrepreneurship Institute Australia, into one educational organisation in 2011.\n\nThe Agile MBA is Australia’s largest and most progressive MBA, which has been specifically designed with the career-driven working adult in mind. Studying one subject at a time allows students to delve deep into the subject theory and apply the learnings in the workplace. This provides immediate benefit to the student and their employer from the time they start studying.\n\nThe Master of Management (MMgt) programme at AIB offers a degree, primarily suited to working managers, that combines Master’s-level coursework with an in-depth research project. MMgt students often undertake their research project in a subject area related to their current industry or work projects. The programme can be completed in 18 months, but may take up to three years to complete.\n\nThe Doctor of Business Administration (DBA) is a research degree designed for experienced managers. It offers an opportunity to take business and management knowledge and understanding to a higher level and, importantly, to relate it closely to the workplace needs. Like the PhD, the DBA offers a doctoral qualification but, in this case, one that is more directly linked to the world of work.\n\nThe Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) is the traditional doctoral qualification that is associated with a wide range of subjects in universities across the world. It offers an opportunity for research to be undertaken in depth and for the outcome to be assessed as a contribution to knowledge. Although it has a theoretical dimension, the research programme at AIB can also enable managers to explore specialist areas of practical application.\n\nAIB programmes can be completed via Online Learning, a flexible learning option for students who want the ability to study whenever and wherever they choose. 24/7 access to online learning materials and both online and offline teaching and administrative support are provided to facilitate this.\n\nAIB’s Teaching Centre model was developed so students around the world could earn a recognised Australian Degree without leaving their home country.\n\nAIB’s Teaching Centres are a combination of centres, colleges, institutes and universities who are approved to offer AIB programmes. They are quality-controlled by AIB, ensuring that the qualification delivered to the student is equal to the standards set within Australia.\n\nAIB is registered as a higher education provider by the Tertiary Education Quality and Standards Agency (TEQSA), the sole government body in Australia authorised to register institutions of higher education, including universities. All of AIB’s programmes are accredited within the Australian Qualifications Framework and are internationally recognised.\n\nAIB has a range of memberships with leading industry associations, including the Australian Council for Private Education and Training (ACPET), the Graduate Management Association of Australia (GMAA), the International Quality Group (IQG) of the U.S. Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), and the Observatory on Borderless Higher Education (OBHE). Some of AIB's professional membership bodies also include the Australian Marketing Institute (AMI), Australian Human Resources Institute (AHRI), FINSIA (Finance), Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB), Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP) and many more.\n\nAIB is included in the CanLearn International Master List of Designated Educational Institutions which lists all the educational institutions where students can apply for Canada Student Loans. \nAIB is listed on the online database of the International Association of Universities (IAU), a UNESCO-based worldwide association of higher education institutions, and is included in IAU’s International Handbook of Universities. \n\nAIB has a strong research focus with many of its research activities concentrated and developed within the AIB Research Centre. The Centre is led by the Director of Research and brings together both full-time and part-time faculty and research degree candidates. In addition to supporting students with current study, the AIB Research Centre supports the wider development of business knowledge through its publishing arm, AIB Publications. AIB Publications is responsible for the publication of business and management books, and the twice-yearly Gibaran Journal of Applied Research. The journal “provides an authoritative source of applied management information for scholars, academics, practicing managers and professionals”.\n\nThe Global Centre for Work-Applied Learning (GCWAL) is an independent organisation that exists within the Australian Institute of Business. It aims to bring together practitioners, scholars and organisations committed to Work-Applied Learning (WAL). This meaningful collaboration results in research, industry-based projects, and publications, all of which contribute to business and management knowledge and the practice of WAL globally.\n\nIn December 2012 AIB signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Middlesex University to allow both institutions to work together to advance Work-Applied and Work-Based Learning research. This collaboration was highlighted with the inaugural Work-Applied Learning for Change conference, where the two institutions partnered to present a world-first conference on the techniques of Work-Based Learning (WBL). In 2015, AIB in partnership with Emerald Group Publishing launched scholarly and refereed \"Journal of Work-Applied Management\".\n\nThe conference, held in Adelaide in November 2013, attracted 80 delegates from around the world including then-Vice Chancellor of Universiti Kuala Lumpur, Professor Mazliham Su’ud, as well as academics from Flinders University, Deakin University and Queensland University of Technology. The conference was designed to bring together leading practitioners and scholars to demonstrate the value of learning and application for change in organisations and how senior managers can empower their leaders to learn, apply and introduce change in their workplace, with the option of undertaking studies leading to undergraduate and postgraduate qualifications.\n\nSubject matter experts speaking at the event included Emeritus Professor Selva Abraham from the Australian Institute of Business, Professor Jonathan Garnett and Dr Daryll Bravenboer from Middlesex University, and a series of leading executives from Epic Valley Holdings Group, API Insurance Services and BAE Systems Australia, among others.\n\nThe second Work-Applied Learning for Change conference will be held in late 2014.\n\nProfessor Selva Abraham is the Founder of the Australian Institute of Business. Over the last 40 years, his focus has been on Work-Based Learning, which he has extended into the concept of Work-Applied Learning. This passion for practical learning has evolved into publishing four books on the subjects of work-applied learning, management and action research. A leading scholar in the field, he also regularly contributes to research papers and case studies.\n\nThe current Dean of the Australian Institute of Business is Professor Angele Cavaye. An accomplished scholar, Angèle joined AIB as Academic Director in 2014 after more than 25 years of experience in leading Australian universities and higher education providers.\n\nWithin her role as Academic Director, Angèle led a major curriculum review during 2014 and has been instrumental in helping revise AIB’s academic programmes. She provides guidance and leadership on academic issues, leads AIB’s team of academics and ensures that the AIB’s programmes remain compliant with regulatory requirements.\n\nProfessor Cavaye joined the Australian Institute of Business in January, 2014.\n\nAll Lecturers at AIB have a PhD and Master’s-level qualification, and practical business experience which they can draw on. Many faculty members also take advantage of the opportunity to undertake further research within the Institute’s research framework and have presented their research and leading domestic and international conferences including regularly publishing in top-tier management and business journals (ranked under ABDC and HERDEC).\n\nThe Academic Board of AIB is responsible for promoting and maintaining the “highest academic standards in teaching, scholarship and research”. The Academic Board oversees the development and implementation of AIB academic policies and procedures, and ensures the academic standards are of the highest quality possible.\n\nProfessor Rod Oxenberry is the Chairman of the Academic Board of the Australian Institute of Business and is the former Head of the International Graduate School of Management of the University of South Australia. An education and management consultant specialising in higher education recognition, leadership mentoring and management development, Professor Oxenberry has been instrumental in the continual development of AIB’s programmes, including the innovative Agile MBA.\n\nThe current academic board consists of six industry-leading academics and professionals, each of whom has extensive experience in a variety of industries and specialties, as below:\n\nAll current and graduated students of AIB become part of the institute’s alumni community, with members across more than 70 countries.\n\nAlumni events are held in major Australian cities and globally by Teaching Centres. Events such as these allow current and past students to re-connect with fellow graduates, current classmates, faculty members and industry guests. Guest speakers attend many of AIB’s events to create an engaging environment for networking and to encourage further education. Speakers at these events are often leading business executives and entrepreneurs, and have previously included: \n\n"}
{"id": "19386867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19386867", "title": "Brooklyn Waldorf School", "text": "Brooklyn Waldorf School\n\nThe Brooklyn Waldorf School is a coeducational, independent, non-sectarian day preschool and elementary Waldorf school located in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, New York. The School operates on the principles of Waldorf Education, and adapts the traditional methods of Rudolf Steiner to the unique, urban environment of Brooklyn, New York. The school's mission is to provide Waldorf education to the economically, culturally and racially diverse community of Brooklyn. The school was founded in 2005 and currently has a Preschool/Kindergarten and Grades 1-8. In 2011, the Brooklyn Waldorf School moved into its new home at the Claver Castle. The School uses a tiered financial aid tuition model to help achieve diversity of students.\n\nThe Brooklyn Waldorf School is a “developing status” member of the Association of Waldorf Schools of North America (AWSNA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3091358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3091358", "title": "California Standardized Testing and Reporting Program", "text": "California Standardized Testing and Reporting Program\n\nThe Standardized Testing and Reporting (STAR) Program measures performance of students undergoing primary and secondary education in California. It was replaced in late 2013-early 2014 with the California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP), also known as the Measurement of Academic Performance and Progress (MAPP).\n\nThe 2012 STAR Program included four components:\n\n\nThe CSTs show how well students are doing in relation to the state content standards. The CMA is an alternate assessment of the California content standards based on modified achievement standards for children with an individualized education program (IEP) who meet the eligibility criteria adopted by the State Board of Education. Spanish-speaking English learners who are receiving instruction in Spanish are required to take the STS, as are Spanish-speaking English learners who had been enrolled in school in the United States less than 12 months when testing began; school districts have the option of administering the STS to Spanish-speaking English learners who had been enrolled in school in the United States 12 months or more who were not receiving instruction in Spanish. The CAPA is an individually administered assessment for students with significant cognitive disabilities whose disabilities preclude them from taking the CSTs and CAT/6 Survey even with modifications.\n\nEach spring, California students in grades 2 through 11 must take a series of tests that comprise the state's STAR program. These must be completed 10 days before or after 85% of a school's year has passed.\nThe California Standards Tests (CSTs) are designed to match the state's academic content standards for each grade. Grades 2 through 8 tests cover mathematics and English/language arts (which includes writing in grades 4 and 7). Grades 9 through 11 cover English/language arts, mathematics, and science. History-social science tests are added for grades 8, 10 and 11 as well as science for grades 5 and 8. Except for writing, all questions are multiple-choice.\n\nThe California Achievement Test, Sixth Edition (CAT/6), shows how well students are doing compared to students nationally in reading, language, spelling, and mathematics in grades 3 and 7 only.\n\nCalifornia's school accountability system was originally based solely on scores from the CAT/6. Through the Academic Performance Index (API), the scores drove the allocation of millions of dollars in intervention and award programs, depending on the health of the state’s budget. (The state has not funded award or intervention programs based on 2002 or 2003 test scores.)\n\nAPIs now include results primarily from the California Standards Tests plus CAT/6. Results from the California High School Exit Exam (CAHSEE), taken by 10th graders in the 2001-02 school year, are part of high school APIs. English/language arts scores count for 10% and math for 5%.\n\nThe Golden State Exams provide an opportunity for graduating students to earn a distinction of merit on their high school diploma. To save testing time, these examinations will be combined with the high school California Standards Tests.\n\nThe STAR Program is the cornerstone of the California Public Schools Accountability Act of 1999 (PSAA). The primary objective of the PSAA is to help schools improve the academic achievement of all students.\n\nFor three decades California students took the same statewide test, called CAP (California Assessment Program). Many districts required additional tests, such as CTBS (California Test of Basic Skills). In 1990, CAP was replaced by CLAS (California Learning Assessment System), which was discontinued in 1994 because of controversy over portions of the test. Each school district continued to use their own tests known as the High School Competency Exams which had been established as a high school graduation requirement pursuant to California law in 1978. Although not statewide tests, the High School Competency Exams had to conform to state prescribed rules of content and reporting. These tests filled school accountability requirements until the STAR (Standardized Testing and Reporting) program began in 1998. In this program almost all students in grades 2 through 11 take the California Standards Test that reflect the state's academic content standards plus a nationally normed, standardized test every year. Each school must report individual students' scores to their parents, and group results are released in mid-August.\n\nThe legislature reauthorized the STAR Program during 2002, and the SBE selected the California Achievement Tests, Sixth Edition Survey (CAT/6 Survey) to replace the Stanford 9 as the national norm-referenced test for the STAR Program beginning with the spring 2003 test administration. The SBE also authorized the development of the California Alternate Performance Assessment (CAPA), an individually administered assessment for students with significant cognitive disabilities whose disabilities preclude them from taking the CSTs and CAT/6 Survey even with modifications. The CAPA assesses the California ELA, mathematics, and science content standards that were identified as appropriate for students with significant cognitive disabilities. The CAPA was first administered during spring 2003.\n\nIn August 2004, the Governor signed legislation reauthorizing the STAR Program through 2011. The reauthorized program reduced the CAT/6 Survey to grades three and seven.\n\nDuring 2005, the SBE designated the Aprenda: La prueba de logros en español, Tercera edición (Aprenda 3) to replace the SABE/2 as the designated primary language test (DPLT) for the STAR Program. The Standards-based Tests in Spanish (STS) were developed to replace the DPLT and are required for the same population of students who took the DPLT. Those tests were first administered in the spring of 2007 to students in grades two through four, and beginning in 2009, the STS was available for students in grades two through eleven. Students taking the STS are also required to take the CSTs and/or the California Modified Assessment (CMA).\n\nIn April 2007, the U.S. Department of Education enacted regulations for an alternate assessment based on modified achievement standards, and in response to the federal regulations the CDE has developed the California Modified Assessment (CMA), an alternate assessment of the California content standards based on modified achievement standards for children with an individualized education program (IEP) who meet the eligibility criteria adopted by the State Board of Education. The CMA includes assessments for ELA, mathematics, and science. Eligible students may take either the CST or the CMA in a subject area; for example, a student in grade five may take the CST for ELA and take the CMA for mathematics and science. The CMA was first administered in the spring of 2008 to students in grades three through five. Beginning in 2011, the CMA was available to students in grades three through eleven.\n\nIn March 2013 it was announced that the STAR testing system was set to expire in July 2014, and California would replace STAR tests with more in-depth exams in two years in 2015. These new exams would follow the new Common Core State Standards and have requirements for in-depth essays and projects that students will complete on computers.\n\nAB 484, introduced on September 4, 2013 in the state Legislature, would end the use of STAR tests in math and English for the school year already under way – a year earlier than planned, and introduce the Measurement of Academic Performance and Progress (MAPP) tests, a new test aligned to the National Governors Association and College Board's Common Core Initiative. The bill ended up being overwhelmingly endorsed by the Senate and was expected to pass the assembly. It was passed on September 11, 2013 and signed by the Governor on October 02, 2013.\n\nThe MAPP was renamed as the California Assessment of Student Performance and Progress (CAASPP) in emergency regulations effective on February 3, 2014 because \"a private company has informed the CDE that it believes the name MAPP may confuse members of the public with evaluation services that they offer.\" The regulations are in California Code of Regulations (CCR) Title 5, Division 1, Chapter 2, Subchapter 3.75 (5 CCR § 850 \"et seq.\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2065075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2065075", "title": "Caribbean Examinations Council", "text": "Caribbean Examinations Council\n\nResult\nThe Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC) is an examination board in the Caribbean. It was established in 1972 under Agreement by the Participating Governments in the CARICOM. To conduct such examinations as it may think appropriate and award certificates and diplomas on the results of any such examinations so conducted. The Council is empowered to regulate the conduct of any such examinations and prescribe the qualification requirements of candidates and the fees payable by them. It is now an examining body that provides educational certifications in 16 English speaking Commonwealth Caribbean Countries and Territories and has replaced the General Certificate of Education (GCE) examinations used by England and some other members of the Commonwealth. The CXC is an institution of the Caribbean Community (Caricom), it was recognised as an Associate Institution of the Community in the 1973 treaty that created the Caribbean Community. Members of the Council are drawn from the 16 territories and the region's two universities, the University of Guyana and the University of the West Indies.\n\nIt currently consists of the following members:\n\nThe Participating Territories are: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Trinidad and Tobago and Turks and Caicos Islands.\n\nMembers of the Council hold office for a period of three years. The Chairman (who is eligible for re-election) and Deputy Chairman are elected from among the members of Council to hold office for three years or for the unexpired term of their appointments as members of the Council. The Council organises its business on a triennial basis, using the calendar year as its operative year.\n\nThe Registrar is the Chief Executive of the Council and the Council may delegate to him any of its duties relating to the holding of examinations and the appointments of staff members other than himself or the Pro-Registrar.\n\nThe Caribbean Examinations Council offers three levels of examinations and certifications:\n\nThe CXC Associate Degree Programme was unveiled in 2005, it is a tertiary qualification based on the CAPE certification.\n\n\nWhile it may vary by territory, the CSECs are generally viewed as an employment qualification certifying the holder as a secondary school graduate. While the CAPE is considered a suitable qualification for entry into tertiary education.\n\nThe island territories of Saint Maarten and Saba - both part of the Kingdom of the Netherlands - also conduct exams administered by the Council. In 1993, the Caribbean Examinations Council Act was commenced to secure the integrity of examinations conducted by the council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34227517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34227517", "title": "Collaborative bargaining", "text": "Collaborative bargaining\n\nCollaborative bargaining is a style of negotiation which recognises the interests of the other party and emphasises cooperation between them. It was especially promoted, practised and studied in the negotiations between school districts and s in the United States in the 1990s. It is compared and contrasted with more adversarial models of collective bargaining in which the parties may regard each other as enemies.\n"}
{"id": "38400327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38400327", "title": "Commission for University Education", "text": "Commission for University Education\n\nThe Commission for Higher Education was established in 1985 by an Act of Parliament, Universities Act, CAP 210B as a body corporate to make better provisions for the advancement and quality assurance of university education.\n\nQuality university education that is accessible and sustainable.\n\nTo oversee quality assurance and expansion of university education ensuring sustainability, affordability and relevance.\n\nThe Commission is committed to ensuring increased access to sustainable quality higher education and training through planning, coordination, resource mobilisation, quality assurance enhancement and information service.\nCore Functions\n\nThe following are the Commission's core functions:\n\n"}
{"id": "40228251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40228251", "title": "Davidson Institute of Science Education", "text": "Davidson Institute of Science Education\n\nThe Davidson Institute of Science Education is a public nonprofit organization aimed at promoting and nurturing the scientific, mathematical and technological education in Israel. Serving as the educational arm of the Weizmann Institute of Science, the Davidson Institute develops, evaluates and provides a wide variety of educational programs for teaching and learning science and mathematics at all ages and levels. It is located on campus of the Weizmann Institute in Rehovot.\n\nThe Davidson Institute for Science Education was established by Haim Harari (who has been the Institute's Chairman of the Board ever since) in 1999, following a large endowment gift from William (Bill) Davidson and contributions from other donors. \nScience education activities started at the Weizmann Institute in the early 1960’s. Over the decades, these activities led to the creation of an academic department of Science Teaching at the Weizmann Institute and, in parallel, to an ever expanding array of educational field activities aimed at schools, teachers, students and the general public. The success and proliferation of these programs eventually required the establishment of a separate, non-profit entity with dedicated to such activities, with a strong scientific linkage to the Weizmann Institute.\n\nDavidson Institute's formal programs target different target groups such as outstanding gifted students, entire school classes and their teachers, youth at risk, underachieving youth, math and science teachers, young talented students from abroad and the general public of all ages. Extracurricular activities include afternoon science clubs, science Olympiads and competitions, public science lectures, national and international science camps, annual events, and the Clore Garden of Science outdoor museum. Providing science education programs for all ages gives the Davidson Institute a holistic perspective of Life Long Learning and a special understanding of the needs of the various segments of Israeli society.\nActivities are conducted in Hebrew, English, Arabic, and Spanish.\nWeizmann Institute's researchers and graduate students are actively involved in all Davidson Institute's programs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30872841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30872841", "title": "Doctorandus", "text": "Doctorandus\n\nDoctorandus (; ), abbreviated drs., is a Dutch academic title according to the pre-Bachelor–Master system. The female form is 'doctoranda' (abbreviated dra., though this abbreviation is no longer used). The title is acquired by passing the \"doctoraalexamen\", the exam which usually concludes university study. Some students will continue to do research under the supervision of a professor, which eventually allows them to obtain the title of doctor.\n\nIn Dutch, the words \"doctoraal\" and \"doctoraat\" have different meanings, the first referring to the doctorandus, the second word referring to the doctorate phase or title. The word 'doctorandus' is based on the traditional principle that this degree is a prerequisite and intermediate step for obtaining a doctorate title. However, in the twentieth century the doctorandi have become considered to be graduates and when they can choose a scientific career, the do usually as a paid \"promovendus\" and not as research students. An exception are medical students, where the doctoral exam is an intermediate step after which the students have to follow internships, in order to obtain the full medical degree of physician (\"arts\" in Dutch).\n\nAccording to Dutch legislation, the Dutch doctorandus degree is equivalent to the MA or MSc degree in English-speaking countries, with the difference that the coursework and comprehensive exams for a doctorate are included in the academic study. After being graduated to \"drs.\", the candidate can start with PhD-level research and writing the dissertation without any further exams.\n\nThe abbreviation is drs. This means that Dutch graduates who received the doctorandus title may sign like drs. A. Jansen. After the Bologna process, the title doctorandus has been replaced by the degrees MA and MSc, and those who receive such Dutch degrees may choose: they may use MA/MSc behind their name, or continue to use drs., mr. or ir., reflecting the field in which they graduated. According to Art. 7.20 of the Dutch law on higher education and scientific research, a graduate of a master's degree granted through scientific education (i.e. by a Dutch research university) may sign as ir. (ir. stems from the dutch 'ingenieur' (engineer)) for those who graduated in an academic study of agriculture, natural environment or technical field, mr. (mr. stems from the dutch 'meester' (master) at law) for those who graduated in law and drs. by those who graduated in other fields. According to Art. 7.19a and the Dutch customs the degrees granted to such graduates are MSc for engineers, MA or MSc for doctoranduses and established by ministerial regulation for jurists (actually LLM). This means that two situations can be discerned:\n\n\nIn Belgium the title drs is only used for graduates working on a PhD, which will then eventually change their title from Drs. to Dr. The title Lic (which stems from 'licentiaat') is used for those who have finished a masters' degree, but it is rarely used.\n\nThe degree was also used in Indonesia until 1994 (because of Indonesia being a former colony of the Netherlands), where it was given to all bachelors except law, agriculture, natural environment, and engineering. The title ir. for academic engineers is still used in Indonesia by those who obtained their degree before 1994.\n\nIn Sweden and Estonia the term is used in the form: \"doktorand\", with the same etymology: \"he who should become a doctor\" (but dropping the gender qualifier) to refer to a student reading for his or her doctorate. However, it is not a formal title and is never written abbreviated. Similarly, in Romania it is \"doctorand\", abbreviated \"drd.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5472952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5472952", "title": "Ernst R. G. Eckert", "text": "Ernst R. G. Eckert\n\nErnst Rudolph Georg Eckert (September 13, 1904 – July 8, 2004) was a scientist who advanced the film cooling technique for aeronautical engines. He earned his Diplom Ingenieur and doctorate in 1927 and 1931, respectively, and habilitated in 1938. Eckert worked as a rocket and jet engine scientist at the Aeronautical Research Institute in Braunschweig, Germany, then via Operation Paperclip, began jet propulsion research in 1945 at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. In 1951, Eckert joined the University of Minnesota in the department of mechanical engineering. Eckert published more than 550 scientific papers and books. The Eckert number in fluid dynamics was named after him.\n\nDr. Eckert's son-in-law Horst Henning Winter is a professor of chemical engineering at UMass. Dr. Winter specializes in rheology.\n\n"}
{"id": "23717600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23717600", "title": "Falloux Laws", "text": "Falloux Laws\n\nThe Falloux Laws were voted in during the French Second Republic and promulgated on 15 March 1850 and in 1851, following the presidential election of Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte in December 1848 and the May 1849 legislative elections that gave a majority to the conservative Parti de l'Ordre. Named for the Minister of Education Alfred de Falloux, they mainly aimed at promoting Catholic teaching. The Falloux Law of 15 March 1850 also extended the requirements of the Guizot Law of 1833, which had mandated a boys' school in each commune of more than 500 inhabitants, to require a girls' school in those communes. The 1851 law created a mixed system, in which some primary education establishments were public and controlled by the state and others were under the supervision of Catholic congregations. \n\nThe new law opened an era of cooperation between Church and state that lasted until the Ferry laws ended this in the early 1880s. The Falloux laws provided universal primary schooling in France and expanded opportunities for secondary schooling. In practice, the curricula in Catholic and state schools were similar. Catholic schools were especially useful in schooling for girls, which had long been neglected.\n\nThe main objectives of the Falloux Laws was to replace the revolutionary and imperial system, which had placed the whole of the education system under the supervision of the University and of state-trained teachers, who were accused of spreading Republicans and anti-clerical ideas, by a system giving responsibility for education back to the clergy. This aim was largely achieved: the Falloux Law created a mixed system, public (and mostly secular) on one hand, and private and Catholic on the other.\n\nThis law allowed the clergy and members of ecclesiastical orders, male and female, to teach without any further qualifications. This exemption was extended even to priests who taught in secondary schools, where a university degree was demanded from lay teachers. The primary schools were put under the management of the curés. \n\nThe Falloux Law created one academy for each department, decentralising the University and thus strengthening the notables' local influence. It reorganised the Superior Council of Education and academic councils, specifically by giving a large number of places to representatives of various religions, above all of Roman Catholicism. Eight University members had seats at the Superior Council of Public Instruction, alongside seven religious representatives (including four Catholics), three state counsellors, three members of the Institute, and three members representing \"free\" (i.e. private) teaching establishments. Similarly, bishops were included in the academic councils.\n\nPrimary and secondary education were divided between state establishments, and private establishments, headed by non-profit organisations or religious congregations. Supervision of schools was the joint responsibility of the mayor and the priest.\n\nThe Falloux Law was promulgated in a context in which French Catholics were worried about the increasing role of the state in education since the Revolution of 1789 and the reorganisation of the imperial University. They thought that the imperial education system, inherited from the First Empire's reforms, excessively diffused Enlightenment, republican and socialist ideas. Thus, they wanted the education system to return to its basis during the Ancien Régime. \n\nThe Bourbon Restoration had in part satisfied these wants, by tolerating teaching by religious congregations, although it still theoretically remained prohibited, and had also granted more weight to bishops in the education system, enabling schooling programs to give more attention to Catholicism.\n\nHowever, the July Monarchy was much less friendly to this reactionary trend. Although the Guizot Law of 1833 partially satisfied Catholics by authorising private teaching in primary education, it kept secondary and higher education under the University's supervision. Guizot also generalised the \"écoles normales primaires\", which were responsible for the training of teachers. First created by the National Convention in 1794, these schools, related to the \"écoles normales supérieures\", were organised on the basis of the 1808 decree organising the University of France, and were accused by conservatives of promoting Republicanism, Socialism and anti-clericalism.\n\nAfter the 1848 Revolution, Lazare Hippolyte Carnot was named Minister of Public Instruction and prepared a draft reform. He named the Republican Jules Barthélemy-Saint-Hilaire president of the parliamentary commission which would write the draft. The latter would have made education mandatory for children of both sexes, as well as a three years of training for teachers, subsided by the state. Although it favoured public schools, it still allowed private teaching establishments. Carnot's draft was however set aside after his resignation on 5 July 1848.\n\nThus, parliamentary debates were resumed. The newly elected President Louis Napoléon Bonaparte replaced Carnot with Alfred de Falloux as Minister of Public Instruction in December 1848, the latter remaining in Odilon Barrot's government until May 1849. The decree of 11 December 1848 made the upcoming law on education an organic law, which should thus be reserved to the Constituent Assembly's initiative.\n\nA Legitimist (i.e. a conservative Royalist), Falloux officially withdrew Carnot's draft bill on 4 January 1849 and dissolved the Scientific and Literary Study Commission named by Carnot. Falloux clearly aimed at restoring Roman Catholicism to the forefront of French schooling and society, describing his program in his \"Memoirs\": \"God in education. The Pope at the head of the Church. The Church at the head of civilisation.\" \n\nHaving dissolved Carnot's commission, Falloux created two new ministerial commissions, dedicated to preparing the draft laws for primary and secondary education, which quickly merged. Both were composed by a majority of conservative Catholics. Presided by the Minister Falloux himself, it had as vice-president Adolphe Thiers, and included Catholics such as the archbishop of Paris Mgr Sibour, the abbot Dupanloup (who later became bishop of Orléans), etc. Surprisingly, Thiers, formerly a critic of the Church's involvement in education, was one of those who most supported Catholics' influence in the education system, being ready to hand over to the clergy the whole of the primary education establishments, whilst bishop Dupanloup and others strong Catholics calmed his excessive claims.\n\nUpset by this measure, in part because the December 1848 decree had given the initiative for the legislative process, concerning organic laws, to the Assembly, the latter nominated a new parliamentary Commission to re-establish its prerogatives following a proposition by the moderate Republican Pascal Duprat. This parallel Commission was presided by the Minister of Public Instruction de Vaulabelle and had as secretary the Republican Jules Simon.\n\nParliamentary debates focused on Article 9 of the new Constitution concerning education. Catholic deputy Charles de Montalembert then described the University's monopoly in the education system as \"intellectual communism\" and claimed the system was \"inferior to that of the Ancien Régime\". Article 9 proclaimed that \"education is free\" (\"L'enseignement est libre\")\" while adding that this \"freedom of education\" was determined by legislation and exercised \"under state supervision.\" While authorising private establishments, this article thus ensured that education in general was placed under the watch of the state. The extent of the latter would be determined by forthcoming laws.\n\nOn 5 February 1849, Jules Simon presented to the Assembly the draft law, composed of 23 articles. However, Odilon Barrot's government claimed that the Constituent Assembly's mandate was coming to an end, and that further proposed laws would have to be examined by the succeeding National Assembly. Pressed for time, the Constituent Assembly thus decided to examine the most pressing laws. Deputy Boubée, a scientist and University lecturer, proposed that the draft education law be one of those scrutinised, but his motion was rejected by 458 votes against 307.\n\nDiscussion of the new law would thus have to wait the May 1849 legislative election. But these ones gave an absolute majority to the conservative Parti de l'Ordre, mainly composed of Catholic monarchists, whether Orleanists or Legitimists, such as Falloux who was elected deputy.\n\nDespite having been dissolved, the Commission presided by Barthélémy Saint-Hilaire and named by Carnot submitted its draft and report to the Assembly on 10 April 1849. This work was ignored during further discussions. On 18 June 1849, Falloux submitted to the Assembly the draft bill elaborated by the ministerial commission which he had himself named. Falloux thus resumed his plans: \"Instruction has remained too much isolated from education; education has remained too much isolated from religion.\" \n\nThe Assembly hereby named another parliamentary commission, where Catholics had again the upper-hand. It included Salomon (from the Meuse), the Protestant theologian Coquerel, Baze, the theologian Armand de Melun (who had been a collaborator of late Denys Affre, former archbishop of Paris), de l'Espinay, Sauvaire-Barthélemy (a grandnephew of the marquis de Barthélémy), Dufougeray, Barthélémy Saint-Hilaire, de Montalembert, Rouher, Thiers, Beugnot, Fresneau, Janvier, Parisis (bishop of Langres). The Commission chose Thiers as president and Beugnot as \"rapporteur\" (in charge of presenting the draft bill to the Assembly). Falloux also managed to bypass the Conseil d'Etat's examination of the law, the latter being composed of several Republicans.\n\nIn September 1849, Falloux fell sick, and was replaced in October as Minister of Public Instruction by Félix Esquirou de Parieu. On 11 January 1850, a minor law (named Parieu Law) was passed, simplifying procedures of suspension and revocation of teachers. The draft was discussed again starting on 14 January 1850. During these debates, Victor Hugo, although member of the Parti de l'Ordre, criticised the renewed influence of the clergy. The law was finally adopted on 15 March 1850, by 399 votes against 237.\n\nThe Third Republic abrogated or reformed most dispositions of the Falloux Laws. The 27 February 1880 law reduced the clergy's representation in educational councils. The Ferry Laws established mandatory, free and laic education. The Goblet Law abrogated the first and second section of the Falloux Law. In 1904, among increasing voices to repeal entirely the Falloux Law, the Minister Emile Combes prohibited religious congregations from teaching, including in private schools. \n\nHowever, Catholics responded by creating \"lay private schools\", where religious education was maintained, although teaching was done by lay people, and not clergy.\n\nThe Vichy Regime allowed again religious congregations to teach and strongly subsided private Catholic schools. Although these subsidies were interrupted following the Liberation, the Provisional Government of the French Republic (GPRF) did not repeal the teaching authorisation given to congregations. The Debré Law of 1959 went further, by having private schools' teachers paid by the state.\n\nAlthough the Falloux Laws have formally been repealed since the promulgation of the Education Code in 2000, several of their dispositions have been retained in the Code, and form the main legislative framework for private schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28766578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28766578", "title": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry", "text": "Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry\n\nFellowship of the Royal Society of Chemistry (FRSC) is an award conferred by the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) in the United Kingdom.\n\nAchieving Fellow status in the chemical profession denotes to the wider community a high level of accomplishment as a professional chemist. Eligibility for Fellow status applies to applicants who are Members of the Royal Society of Chemistry (MRSC), with a minimum of 5 years professional experience. In addition, they must have made an outstanding contribution to the advancement of the chemical sciences; or to the advancement of the chemical sciences as a profession; or have been distinguished in the management of a chemical sciences organization.\n\nIn all cases FRSC sponsor references are required. The award of designatory letters FRSC is subject to the final approval of the RSC Applications Committee. In addition to the above, all RSC membership requires acceptance and adherence to a specific code of conduct and an established set of high standards of ethical and professional behavior. \nThe RSC continuously establishes, and evaluates professional qualifications and the awarding of its designatory letters and awards. See for examples of fellows.\n\nHonorary Fellowship of the Society (\"HonFRSC\") is awarded for distinguished service in the field of chemistry.\n"}
{"id": "8786195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8786195", "title": "Gamar Almaszadeh", "text": "Gamar Almaszadeh\n\nGamar Hajiaga qizi Almaszadeh () (10 March 1915, Baku – 7 April 2006, Baku) was an Azerbaijani ballerina and ballet instructor. She's considered the first ballerina of the Muslim world.\n\nGamar Almaszadeh (nicknamed Tamara) was born in Baku to a family of a shoemaker and a midwife, Hajiaga and Maryam Almaszadeh. She became interested in ballet at a very young age, when she saw her friend perform ballet moves. Persuaded by her friend she signed up for ballet lessons at a private studio (later reorganized into the Baku School of Choreography). Gamar's mother approved of her daughter's new interest but her father Hajiaga Almaszadeh, a conservative Muslim, had to be misled into believing that Gamar was attending gym in order to have him pay for her lessons. The secret was soon revealed and, as expected, Gamar's father did not come around to her choice. However he was reported to have secretly assisted at his daughter's performances later, when she became a renowned ballerina.\n\nAfter graduating from the choreographic school in 1930, Gamar Almaszadeh began working at the Azerbaijan State Opera and Ballet Theatre. To meet her father's expectations, she also enrolled in a teachers' college. In 1932, she left for Moscow to continue her ballet education but soon returned to Baku after being chosen to perform a secondary role in Reinhold Glière's opera \"Shakh-Senem\". In 1933, she was admitted to a professional ballet school in St. Petersburg, where she had Maria Romanova-Ulanova (mother of the world-famous ballerina Galina Ulanova) as an instructor. In 1936, she finished her studies and once again returned to Baku. In 1937, she founded the Azerbaijan State Folk Song and Dance Ensemble affiliated with the Azerbaijan State Philharmonic Society. Guided by composer Uzeyir Hajibeyov, she organized research expeditions to various parts of Azerbaijan to film and document folk dance performances and to enrich the repertoire of her ensemble as well as to propagate them on the big scene. In 1939, she taught her first choreography class and in 1940, made her first biggest performance in the lead role of Afrasiyab Badalbeyli's \"Giz Galasi\" (\"The Maiden Tower\"). She later became head of the School of Choreography (one of her students was prominent Azerbaijani ballerina Leyla Vakilova). During her career, she toured France, India, and Nepal. In 1970, she was invited to Baghdad by Iraq's Ministry of Culture to promote Iraqi folk dance culture and founded the Iraq Folk Dance Ensemble. She retired from ballet in the 1950s, but remained an instructor at the School of Choreography until the late 1990s.\n\nShe married Afrasiyab Badalbeyli in 1931, however the marriage did not last very long.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43493288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43493288", "title": "Geoset", "text": "Geoset\n\nGEOSET (Global Educational Outreach for Science Engineering and Technology) is a nonprofit educational initiative founded by the Nobel Laureate Sir Harold Kroto in 2006 to provide a “free resource of educational material”. Students record presentations detailing their work or interests on a subject matter. The presentations can also form part of course assessment.\n\nThe main GEOSET website is a database gateway that links all the contributing institutions and the local site and contains presentations produced at the Florida State University GEOSET Studios. Some of the students who have recorded presentations have been successful in obtaining job offers when showing the video to perspective employers.\n\nThe inspiration for GEOSET was based on the ability of Google, YouTube and Wikipedia to enable people across the world to access a repository of educational material. Harold Kroto called this revolution the \"Goo-You-Wiki World\". \n\nParticipating organizations and institutions are encouraged to record presentations and create a local site to host them. The URLs from the presentations and representative images are then added to a GEOSET database site. The videos produced make up a series of concepts which teachers are encouraged to use. There are many participating institutions including the University of Sussex, Sheffield University and Toyo University. The initiative has also been demonstrated in the Middle East with the aim of strengthening the resources for science research and in China, with Anhui University of Technology (AHUT) being one of the first to join the GEOSET initiative.\n\nCapture station technology provided by Mediasite is used to record presentations at Florida State University with other rich media formats such as Adobe Presenter and Camtasia Studios. However international partner organizations have used a variety of recording options.\n\nThe Florida State University GEOSET facility opened a centralized recording studio in the Paul Dirac Science Library. The studio is primarily student run with Dr. Steve Acquah and Sir Harold Kroto directing. GEOSET is also expanding into South America with a joint technology collaboration with the Universitat Politècnica de València, demonstrating Polimedia instructional technology to government representatives and universities including Uruguay, Colombia, Costa Rica and Peru.\n\nIn May 2008 GEOSET received a finalist award for the Sonic Foundry Rich Media Impact Awards in the category of Global Reach.\n\nIn 2009 GEOSET won the Rich Media Impact Award in the category of Global Reach.\n\nIn 2010, GEOSET received $100,000 from Microsoft Research for science education.\n\nIn May 2014 GEOSET Studios won the Enterprise Video Award in the category of Educational Scholarship \n\n"}
{"id": "14676003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14676003", "title": "Gordon Gebert", "text": "Gordon Gebert\n\nGordon Alan Gebert (born October 17, 1941) is a former child actor predominantly known for smaller roles in films such as \"Holiday Affair\". In adulthood, he trained as an architect and has taught at The City College of New York.\n\nGebert was born in Des Moines, Iowa in 1941 to Gordon and Violette Gebert. His father was a salesman for a trailer company, and sold truck and bus fleets for Ford Motor Co in Iowa. In 1948, Gebert, age 7 years, moved with his family to Van Nuys, California. In the 1949 Gebert was cast in the movie \"Holiday Affair\". Thereafter, Gebert performed in minor roles in 15 episodes of various television series, such as \"The Donna Reed Show\" (1 episode, 1959), and \"Bachelor Father\" (1 episode, 1960), and he acted in nine full-length feature films, and two shorts, released between 1950 and 1970, always in the part of the son. Gebert's final performance was in a Christian youth scare film.\n\nIn young adulthood, Gebert enrolled at UCLA, transferred to University of Southern California, and eventually earned a bachelor's degree in architecture at age 25 from MIT's Department of Architecture in 1966, and a master's degree from Princeton University in 1968. Since 1971, Gebert has taught at New York's City College, where he is currently architecture department interim dean. Gebert obtained a license to practice architecture in New York State in 1973, and opened a design studio in 1997. However, his license is presently not registered.\n\nGebert married his second wife Lizabeth Paravisini-Gebert, professor of Hispanic Studies at Vassar College in 1986. They live in Poughkeepsie, New York, and have a grown son, Gordon Jr. (b. 1992), a graduate of Oakwood Friends School in Hudson Valley, and employee at JetBlue New York. Gebert has two adult daughters, Carrie Gebert and Darcy Gebert, from his first marriage in 1973 to Phyllis A. DeReamer of Greenfield, Massachusetts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38955951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38955951", "title": "Horse Rangers Association", "text": "Horse Rangers Association\n\nThe Horse Rangers Association is a registered charity which teaches horsemanship and management of horses so that youngsters of all backgrounds and abilities, from the age of 8 years, can benefit in their own personal development. It is not a riding school. \n\nThe Association is based at The Royal Mews, Hampton Court in the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames. A member group of the Riding for the Disabled Association (RDA), it is registered with the British Horse Society (BHS).\n\nThe Horse Rangers Association was founded in Shepperton in 1954 by Raymond Gordon. The charity relocated to the Royal Mews, Hampton Court during the 1960s. Raymond Gordon’s vision was to enable young people, who would not otherwise have the opportunity, to manage horses and ride; from early in the charity’s existence this included young people with special needs.\n\nMore than 400 children and young people attend classes at the Association each week. The Association's special needs classes operate at its indoor school, located at the Stockyard, Bushy Park.\n\nThe board of trustees is chaired by Richard Bevan.\n"}
{"id": "47457879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47457879", "title": "Indonesia Corruption Watch", "text": "Indonesia Corruption Watch\n\nIndonesia Corruption Watch (ICW) is an Indonesian-based and led non-governmental organization (NGO) whose primary mission is to monitor and report to the public incidents of corruption in Indonesia. ICW is also heavily engaged in the prevention and deterrence of corruption through education, cultural change, prosecutions and system reform. The organization was formed in Jakarta on June 21, 1998 to prevent corruption in post-Suharto governments.\n\nICW's work and influence in Indonesia as a major NGO in its field has been recognized and extensively reported on since 1998 by Indonesian and major international news media. The United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime considers ICW to be \"the leading NGO\" focused on fighting corruption in Indonesia. The World Bank cites multiple ICW studies in various World Bank published reports and on its website. ICW's work and reports have also been cited in hundreds of academic works, books and journals about governmental and societal corruption.\n\nOther recent indications of ICW's notability and influence include a request by the Jakarta Governor Basuki \"Ahok\" Tjahaja Prnama that ICW monitor the performance of government units under his administration, and arrests and reported harassment of ICW staff and activists by Indonesian police officers. On September 2, 2015, Indonesian President Joko Widodo appointed former Indonesia Corruption Watch head Teten Masduki as his new chief of staff.\n\nIndonesia has a serious problem with widespread corruption, which has been described as 'rampant' and impacting people from birth until death. A 2014 study and report by Transparency International (TI) as reported in the Wall Street Journal, disclosed that 72% of young Indonesians would engage in corruption for personal gain. In 2014, Indonesia placed 107 out of 175 countries on TI's Corruption Perceptions Index. A 2003 World Bank study found that between 56 and 70% of all civil service employees were seen by their colleagues to be on the take. While some attribute the current situation to a foundation of corruption laid during the reign of Indonesian strongman President Suharto, others blame a persisting 'culture of corruption' in Indonesia and the region that predates World War II.\n\nICW was created on June 21, 1998, a few weeks after the resignation of President Suharto, by social activist Teten Masduki, lawyer Todung Mulya Lubis, economist Faisal Basri and other persons in the midst of a reform movement aimed at ensuring that any post-Suharto government would be democratic and free of corruption.\n\nAfter the fall of Suharto it soon became apparent that the subsequent introduction of a decentralized mode of government with increased regional autonomy produced more corruption, and made its detection and control more difficult. Corruption in Indonesia was no longer organized and centralized, but became fragmented as new regional power centres and leaders emerged. In this emerging situation ICW focused on bringing cases of corruption to the public and law enforcement agencies, monitoring campaign and political finance spending in national and local elections and pushing for anti-corruption laws such as the Freedom of Information Act, the Whistleblower Protection Act, Anti-corruption Act and Election Act.\n\nICW has 8 divisions, including:\n\n\nOn August 6, 2015, Indonesia Corruption Watch was nominated as one of four finalists for the CDN$100,000 Allard Prize for International Integrity. The other finalists include John Githongo, Sergei Magnitsky and Rafael Marques de Morais.\n\nICW's actual name in English is 'Indonesia Corruption Watch', as displayed in the organization's website and ICW's published reports. Archive searches of many major news organizations show that ICW's name is often reported in error as 'Indonesian Corruption Watch'. This inconsistent use of two names (one of them wrong) by the news media presents challenges to journalists and others researching ICW because two separate searches of each database are required to retrieve all news stories and available information. For instance, as of August 9, 2015 separate searches of the New York Times online archives are necessary to return 11 news stories under 'Indonesia Corruption Watch' and an additional 8 news stories under 'Indonesian Corruption Watch', with Indonesia Corruption Watch (ICW) the intended subject of each news story reference. Other major news organizations' archives exhibit the same error in various proportions.\n\nThis frequently occurring naming error is also evident in government and academic publications. For instance, in the World Bank 2003 report Combating Corruption in Indonesia, both the correct and incorrect versions of ICW's official name are published in the same document.\n\n"}
{"id": "612723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=612723", "title": "International Dance Teachers Association", "text": "International Dance Teachers Association\n\nThe International Dance Teachers Association (IDTA) is a leading dance teaching and examination board based in Brighton, England. Operating internationally, the IDTA is one of the largest dance teaching organisations in the world and currently has over 7,000 members in 55 countries. The IDTA is a recognised awarding organisation, recognised by the national qualifications regulators in England and Wales, Ofqual and the Council for Dance Education and Training, and is also affiliated to the British Dance Council, the Central Council of Physical Recreation and the Theatre Dance Council International. The IDTA also works in partnership with the Royal Academy of Dance. It publishes their magazine for members Dance International\nfour times a year.\n\nThe International Dance Teachers Association was formed in 1967 as the result of a merger between the \"Dance Teachers' Association\" (DTA), and the \"International Dancing Masters Association\" (IDMA). Both these organisations were themselves formed from the merging of older dance teaching associations, with the earliest being established in 1903. The IDTA subsequently celebrated its centenary in 2003.\n\nThe earliest predecessor of today's IDTA was the \"Manchester and Salford Association of Teachers of Dancing\", founded in 1903. This later became known as the \"Empire Society\", (ESTD), in 1938. In 1920, another group of teachers in Birmingham formed the \"Midland Association of Teachers of Dancing\" (MATD), which eventually merged with the Empire Society in 1961 to form the \"Dance Teachers' Association\".\n\nIn the early post-World War I years, a number of other small dance organisations were formed: the \"English Dancing Masters Association\" (EDMA), the \"Premier Association of Teachers of Dancing\" (PATD), the \"Universal Association of Dane Teachers\" (UADT), and the \"Yorkshire Association of Dancing Masters\" (YADM). These four organisations merged in 1930 to form the \"International Dancing Masters' Association\".\n\nThe final merger of these organisations in 1967, saw the creation of today's \"International Dance Teachers' Association\".\n\nThe IDTA exists primarily as a dance training and examination board.\n\nFor students, the IDTA provides training opportunities with qualified dance teachers worldwide, both in private and mainstream dance education. Training is available in a wide range of dance disciplines, with examinations leading to a range of awards and certificates for successful candidates, including vocational examinations for students who wish to pursue a career in professional dance. Examinations and awards are available for a variety of ages and abilities.\n\nThe IDTA also awards dance teaching qualifications and has a certification programme for dance students and professionals who wish to gain a recognised dance teaching qualification. There are three levels of qualification that certify teachers to enter candidates for IDTA examinations, they are \"Associate\", \"Licentiate\" and \"Fellowship\". Fellowship is the highest level of qualification within the IDTA and teachers who have reached this level may apply to become examiners of the IDTA.\n\nBeyond dance training and examinations, the IDTA is also one of the World's foremost organisations in the field of competitive dancing, and in this role organises numerous competitions, dance festivals and championships both in the UK and internationally, and is influential in the regulation and adjudication of such competitions. In the UK in particular, the IDTA organises the competitions for the much sought after titles of \"Miss Dance of Great Britain\" and \"Dance Master UK\", and also the \"IDTA Theatre Dance Championships\". Entrants for these prestigious competitions compete in heats at dance festivals nationwide throughout the year, for a place in the annual National finals in Blackpool.\n\nIDTA issues the quarterly \"Dance International Magazine\", which is distributed free of charge to all fully paid-up members of the organisation and includes important news for the period ahead. This includes information about any changes to the IDTA examination system, dates of meetings and seminars, general dance news and other vital information that teachers need.\n\nThe IDTA is divided into two distinct branches, the Theatre Branch and the Ballroom Branch. Each of these two sectors covers a range of dance styles, each with an elected faculty committee that oversee the standards and development of the discipline. The IDTA offers the following dance subjects:\n\n\n\nPeople who wish to become dance teachers with the theatre branch of the IDTA can undertake a teacher training programme with an authorised member of the organisation. Candidates can undertake teacher training in one of the core theatre dance subjects of Ballet, Tap, Modern Jazz or Theatrecraft. To become recognised as a qualified teacher member of the IDTA, the candidate must achieve Associate status in at least one of these core subjects, which subsequently authorises them to teach the complete IDTA syllabus in all theatre dance subjects.\n\nThere are five levels of certification for candidates undertaking teacher training:\nThe following three levels are different levels of qualified teachers and all are authorised to teach the IDTA syllabus and enter candidates for examinations:\n\nA teacher who has achieved Fellowship status in all four core subjects of the theatre branch, can apply to become an examiner for the branch. Candidates who are successful in the selection process to become an examiner, then visit dance schools as a representative of the organisation, assessing pupils' dancing and providing feedback on how they can improve. They also provide feedback to the teachers, to ensure that standards are being maintained and that the syllabus is being correctly taught. Examiners can also vote for and be nominated for election to one of the theatre branch's technical committees, which oversee the development of the syllabus in each discipline. This is one of the most senior roles in the organisation.\n\nFrom 1 October 2006, the IDTA began a new association with the London-based Royal Academy of Dance. A press release issued to members of each organisation stated that \"the two organisations would embark on a process of working together for the future of dance and to the mutual benefit of their members in both teacher education and training and examinations\".\n\nAs a result of this association, registered teachers of the IDTA theatre dance branch are admitted as teacher members of the RAD and vice versa, teachers of the RAD are admitted to membership of the theatre branch of the IDTA. Whilst the new association is not a merger, it is intended that it will develop co-operation between the two organisations and mutual recognition of the training and qualifications that they both provide. It is also expected that in the future, both the IDTA and RAD will begin to work together, providing new training and development opportunities for members and students of both organisations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52952131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52952131", "title": "Irene Clark Durrell", "text": "Irene Clark Durrell\n\nIrene Sarah Clark Durrell (17 May 1852 - 9 November 1914) was an American educator from the U.S. state of New Hampshire. She served as preceptress of the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College, in Tilton.\n\nIrene Sarah Clark was born in Plymouth, New Hampshire, 17 May, 1852. Her father was Hiram Clark. Until the age of 12, her education occurred at ungraded country schools. She was a pupil for a time in the village grammar school and in the Plymouth Academy. Taking private lessons of her pastor in Latin and sciences, and studying by herself, she prepared to enter the State Normal School in Plymouth (now Plymouth State University), where she completed the first course in 1872 and the second in 1873, teaching during summer vacations. \n\nIn 1873 and 1874, she taught grammar school in West Lebanon, New Hampshire, In the fall of 1874, she became the teacher of the normal department in the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College (now Tilton School), and a student in the junior year in the classical course. She was graduated in 1876. She then taught in the State Normal School (now Castleton University) in Castleton, Vermont. \n\nOn 23 July, 1878 she married Rev. Jesse Murton Durrell, D.D. She served as an officer and organizer in the Woman's Foreign Missionary Society. For four years, she was district secretary and was a delegate from the New England branch to the Evanston general executive committee meeting. With her husband, in 1882, she took an extended tour abroad. In the spring of 1891, her husband became president of the New Hampshire Conference Seminary and Female College, Durrell became the preceptress of that institution. She died 9 November 1914.\n\n"}
{"id": "30606908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30606908", "title": "James Simester", "text": "James Simester\n\nJames Simester (Chinese: 沈雅各; Foochow Romanized: \"Sīng Ngā-gáuk\"; Pinyin: \"Shěn Yǎgè\"; February 18, 1871 - October 19, 1905) was an American Methodist missionary and educator to Foochow, China.\n\nBorn on February 18, 1871 in Huntington, Staffordshire, England, James Simester was converted at age fourteen and called to preach when sixteen. He received A.B. from Baldwin University in 1893, and A.M. in 1901, D.D. in 1904, and B.D. from Drew Theological Seminary in 1896.\n\nHe entered the Newark Conference in 1896, and had several appointments (1890 in Strongsville, Ohio, 1891 and 1892 in Litchfield, Ohio and Whippany, New Jersey) before transferring to the Foochow Conference in China in 1896. He married Winifred Smack (1875 - 1952) in Madison, New Jersey on August 6, 1896, and the couple arrived in Foochow on September 27, 1896.\n\nFrom 1896 to 1899 James Simester taught in the Anglo-Chinese College, Foochow (福州英华书院) and from 1899 to 1901 was the acting president and from 1901 to 1904 the president. He was president of S.L. Baldwin School of Theology from 1904 to 1905. He also worked as the editor of the Educational Department of the Methodist Forum from 1902 to 1903, and the editor of Sunday-school Literature, Foochow Conference, from 1899 to 1903.\n\nJames Simester died of Dengue fever on October 19, 1905 in Foochow. His widow and four children went back to America and resided at Delaware, Ohio. His daughter, Edith Winifred Simester, returned to Foochow and worked here as a missionary in the 1930s and 40s.\n"}
{"id": "40572137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40572137", "title": "Jim Calarco", "text": "Jim Calarco\n\nJim Calarco is an actor and a media and drama instructor.\n\nCalarco's hometown is North Bay, Ontario.\n\nHe taught media and drama classes from 1969 to 2000. His career began when he was working as the Artistic Director of Caruso's Dinner Theatre in North Bay in 1981 and 1982. Claire and Jim Calarco formed Pine Creek Theatre Productions in 1983, producing independent freelance theatre. Calarco was a drama consultant with the Near North School Board of Education prior to retirement in 2000.\n\nAfter retiring from teaching, Calarco focused his career exclusively on film and television.\n\nCalarco became a board member of Loon Film Productions and of Nipissing University's Nipissing Stage in 2007. He served as a member of the Theatrical Advisory Committee for Canadore College between 2008 and 2009. Calarco worked through various casting agencies to seek new talent within northern Ontario by promoting original, innovative film development as a spokesperson for the Show Us Your Shorts film competition. In 2008, he formed Real to Reel BG Agency with Kate Adams.\n\nCalarco is a member of ACTRA and the Actors' Equity Association. His most recent works include \"A Dark Truth\", \"The Riverbank\" (also known as \"Tracing Iris\") and \"One Wish\". \"One Wish\" won the Mexico City International Film Festival's Golden Palm Award and the Canada International Film Festival's Award of Excellence.\n\nIn 2010, Calarco established North Star Talent Agency with producer Brigitte Kingsley to better represent actors from northern Ontario. Within the same year he started Real to Reel BG Agency with Kate Adams. In 2011, Calarco started Castnorth, a film and television casting and audition agency.\n\nMany of Calarco's latest movies have been available on Super Channel, including \"Dark Rising\" 1 and 2, \"A Dark Truth\", \"High Chicago\", \"The Riverbank\" and \"The Entitled\".\n\n\"North Bay Nugget\" was released in September 2013: \"Calarco can now add the Northern Flicks Award — \"top honours\" in CTV Television Network Best in Shorts competition — to his list of awards from a film that put the spotlight on dementia and Alzheimer's.\"\n\nCalarco won the Quonta Best Actor award in 1973 and in 2008 was inducted into the Northern Ontario Entertainers Hall of Fame. Many of Calarco’s recent shorts have been nominated for awards, some as finalists, and his movies won many festival awards.\n\nCalarco and his wife Claire married in 1969.\n\nCalarco has performed as an actor, producer, writer, director, casting director, musician and voiceover artist.\n"}
{"id": "47231937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47231937", "title": "Keith Ansell-Pearson", "text": "Keith Ansell-Pearson\n\nKeith Ansell-Pearson is a British philosopher specializing in the work of Friedrich Nietzsche, Henri Bergson and Gilles Deleuze. He is currently Professor of Philosophy at Warwick University.\n\nAnsell-Pearson is the author of numerous books including \"Germinal Life\", \"Viroid Life\" and \"Philosophy and the Adventure of the Virtual.\"\n\nAnsell-Pearson graduated from the University of Sussex and taught at the University of Malawi in southern Africa and Queen Mary College in London. He joined the Philosophy Department of the University of Warwick in 1993 and has held a Personal Chair since 1998.\n\nHe is on the editorial boards of \"Journal of Nietzsche Studies\", \"Nietzsche-Studien\", \"Deleuze Studies\", \"Cosmos and History\" and the book series \"Nietzsche Now\". He serves on the scientific committee of \"Nietzscheana\".\n\nAnsell-Pearson is known for his work on Nietzsche, Bergson, and Deleuze, and for exploring their work in the context of modern biophilosophy. Lately he has been focusing on Nietzsche's neglected middle period texts, especially \"Daybreak\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16944149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16944149", "title": "Knut Almlöf", "text": "Knut Almlöf\n\nKnut Almlöf (9 February 1829 Stockholm – 3 January 1899, Almnäs, Gripsholm), was a Swedish stage actor. He was an elite actors of the Royal Dramatic Theatre and belonged to the most famed stage actors of his time in Sweden. \n\nKnut Almlöf was the son of the actors Nils Almlöf and Brita Catharina Cederberg. \n\nHe had an early enthusiasm to become an actor. His father, one of his country's most famous actors, did not want him to become an actor, and sent him to be educated to a priest in Uppsala. His mother died when he was nine, and the year after, his father remarried the celebrated Charlotta Ficker of the Royal Dramatic Theatre. She encouraged Knut in his interest for the theatre, and after his graduation in 1848, they convinced his father about his preference. \n\nIn 1851, he joined the troupe of Pierre Deland, where he married his colleague Betty Deland. He was employed at the theatre \"Mindre teatern\" in Stockholm in 1861, and in the Royal Dramatic Theatre in 1863. \n\nHe was regarded to have a natural way of acting and was referred to as a genius in comedy. \n\nIn 1874–77, he was joint principal of \"Dramatens elevskola\" with his wife. He took the death of his wife 1882 very hard and retired from the theatre, but continued to act as a guest artist until 1897. \n\n"}
{"id": "186467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=186467", "title": "Language education", "text": "Language education\n\nLanguage education refers to the process and practice of acquiring a second or foreign language. It is primarily a branch of applied linguistics, however can be considered an interdisciplinary field. There are four main learning categories for language education: communicative competencies, proficiencies, cross-cultural experiences, and multiple literacies.\n\nIncreasing globalization has created a great need for people in the workforce who can communicate in multiple languages. Common languages are used in areas such as trade, tourism, international relations, technology, media, and science. Many countries such as Korea (Kim Yeong-seo, 2009), Japan (Kubota, 1998) and China (Kirkpatrick & Zhichang, 2002) frame education policies to teach at least one foreign language at the primary and secondary school levels. However, some countries such as India, Singapore, Malaysia, Pakistan, and the Philippines use a second official language in their governments. According to GAO (2010), China has recently been putting enormous importance on foreign language learning, especially the English language.\n\nThe need to learn foreign languages is as old as human history itself. In the Ancient Near East, Akkadian was the language of diplomacy, as in the Amarna letters. For many centuries, Latin was the dominant language of education, commerce, religion, and government in much of Europe, but it was displaced for many purposes by French, Italian, and English by the end of the 16th century. John Amos Comenius was one of many people who tried to reverse this trend. He wrote a complete course for learning Latin, covering the entire school curriculum, culminating in his \"Opera Didactica Omnia\", 1657.\n\nIn this work, Comenius also outlined his theory of language acquisition. He is one of the first theorists to write systematically about how languages are learned and about methods for teaching languages. He held that language acquisition must be allied with sensation and experience. Teaching must be oral. The schoolroom should have models of things, or else pictures of them. He published the world's first illustrated children's book, \"Orbis sensualium pictus\". The study of Latin gradually diminished from the study of a living language to a mere subject in the school curriculum. This decline demanded a new justification for its study. It was then claimed that the study of Latin developed intellectual ability, and the study of Latin grammar became an end in and of itself.\n\n\"Grammar schools\" from the 16th to 18th centuries focused on teaching the grammatical aspects of Classical Latin. Advanced students continued grammar study with the addition of rhetoric.\n\nThe study of modern languages did not become part of the curriculum of European schools until the 18th century. Based on the purely academic study of Latin, students of modern languages did much of the same exercises, studying grammatical rules and translating abstract sentences. Oral work was minimal, and students were instead required to memorize grammatical rules and apply these to decode written texts in the target language. This tradition-inspired method became known as the grammar-translation method.\n\nInnovation in foreign language teaching began in the 19th century and became very rapid in the 20th century. It led to a number of different and sometimes conflicting methods, each claiming to be a major improvement over the previous or contemporary methods. The earliest applied linguists included Jean Manes ca, Heinrich Gottfried Ollendorff (1803–1865), Henry Sweet (1845–1912), Otto Jespersen (1860–1943), and Harold Palmer (1877–1949). They worked on setting language teaching principles and approaches based on linguistic and psychological theories, but they left many of the specific practical details for others to devise.\n\nThe history of foreign-language education in the 20th century and the methods of teaching (such as those related below) might appear to be a history of failure. Very few students in U.S. universities who have a foreign language as a major attain \"minimum professional proficiency\". Even the \"reading knowledge\" required for a PhD degree is comparable only to what second-year language students read, and only very few researchers who are native English speakers can read and assess information written in languages other than English. Even a number of famous linguists are monolingual.\n\nHowever, anecdotal evidence for successful second or foreign language learning is easy to find, leading to a discrepancy between these cases and the failure of most language programs. This tends to make the research of second language acquisition emotionally charged. Older methods and approaches such as the grammar translation method and the direct method are dismissed and even ridiculed, as newer methods and approaches are invented and promoted as the only and complete solution to the problem of the high failure rates of foreign language students.\n\nMost books on language teaching list the various methods that have been used in the past, often ending with the author's new method. These new methods are usually presented as coming only from the author's mind, as the authors generally give no credence to what was done before and do not explain how it relates to the new method. For example, descriptive linguists seem to claim unhesitatingly that there were no scientifically based language teaching methods before their work (which led to the audio-lingual method developed for the U.S. Army in World War II). However, there is significant evidence to the contrary. It is also often inferred or even stated that older methods were completely ineffective or have died out completely, though in reality even the oldest methods are still in use (e.g. the Berlitz version of the direct method). Proponents of new methods have been so sure that their ideas are so new and so correct that they could not conceive that the older ones have enough validity to cause controversy. This was in turn caused by emphasis on new scientific advances, which has tended to blind researchers to precedents in older work.(p. 5)\n\nThere have been two major branches in the field of language learning, the empirical and theoretical, and these have almost completely separate histories, with each gaining ground over the other at one time or another. Examples of researchers on the empiricist side are Jesperson, Palmer, and Leonard Bloomfield, who promote mimicry and memorization with pattern drills. These methods follow from the basic empiricist position that language acquisition results from habits formed by conditioning and drilling. In its most extreme form, language learning is seen as much the same as any other learning in any other species, human language being essentially the same as communication behaviors seen in other species.\n\nOn the theoretical side are, for example, Francois Gouin, M.D. Berlitz, and Emile B. De Sauzé, whose rationalist theories of language acquisition dovetail with linguistic work done by Noam Chomsky and others. These have led to a wider variety of teaching methods, ranging from the grammar-translation method and Gouin's \"series method\" to the direct methods of Berlitz and De Sauzé. With these methods, students generate original and meaningful sentences to gain a functional knowledge of the rules of grammar. This follows from the rationalist position that man is born to think and that language use is a uniquely human trait impossible in other species. Given that human languages share many common traits, the idea is that humans share a universal grammar which is built into our brain structure. This allows us to create sentences that we have never heard before but that can still be immediately understood by anyone who understands the specific language being spoken. The rivalry between the two camps is intense, with little communication or cooperation between them.\n\nOver time, language education has developed in schools and has become a part of the education curriculum around the world. In some countries, such as the United States, language education (also referred to as World Languages) has become a core subject along with main subjects such as English, Maths and Science.\n\nIn some countries, such as Australia, it is so common nowadays for a foreign language to be taught in schools that the subject of language education is referred to LOTE or Language Other Than English. In the majority of English-speaking education centers, French, Spanish and German are the most popular languages to study and learn. English As A Second Language is also available for students whose first language is not English and they are unable to speak it to the required standard.\n\nLanguage education may take place as a general school subject or in a specialized language school. There are many methods of teaching languages. Some have fallen into relative obscurity and others are widely used; still others have a small following, but offer useful insights.\n\nWhile sometimes confused, the terms \"approach\", \"method\" and \"technique\" are hierarchical concepts.\n\nAn approach is a set of assumptions about the nature of language and language learning, but does not involve procedure or provide any details about how such assumptions should be implemented into the classroom setting. Such can be related to second language acquisition theory.\n\nThere are three principal \"approaches\":\n\nA method is a plan for presenting the language material to be learned, and should be based upon a selected approach. In order for an approach to be translated into a method, an instructional system must be designed considering the objectives of the teaching/learning, how the content is to be selected and organized, the types of tasks to be performed, the roles of students, and the roles of teachers.\n\nA technique (or strategy) is a very specific, concrete stratagem or trick designed to accomplish an immediate objective. Such are derived from the controlling method, and less directly, from the approach.\n\nHundreds of languages are available for self-study, from scores of publishers, for a range of costs, using a variety of methods. The course itself acts as a teacher and has to choose a methodology, just as classroom teachers do.\n\nAudio recordings use native speakers, and one strength is helping learners improve their accent. Some recordings have pauses for the learner to speak. Others are continuous so the learner speaks along with the recorded voice, similar to learning a song.\n\nAudio recordings for self-study use many of the methods used in classroom teaching, and have been produced on records, tapes, CDs, DVDs and websites.\n\nMost audio recordings teach words in the target language by using explanations in the learner's own language. An alternative is to use sound effects to show meaning of words in the target language. The only language in such recordings is the target language, and they are comprehensible regardless of the learner's native language.\n\nLanguage books have been published for centuries, teaching vocabulary and grammar. The simplest books are phrasebooks to give useful short phrases for travelers, cooks, receptionists, or others who need specific vocabulary. More complete books include more vocabulary, grammar, exercises, translation, and writing practice.\n\nAlso, various other \"language learning tools\" have been entering the market in recent years.\n\nSoftware can interact with learners in ways that books and audio cannot:\n\n\nWebsites provide various services geared toward language education. Some sites are designed specifically for learning languages:\n\n\nMany other websites are helpful for learning languages, even though they are designed, maintained and marketed for other purposes:\n\nSome Internet content is free, often from government and nonprofit sites such as BBC Online, Book2, Foreign Service Institute, with no or minimal ads. Some are ad-supported, such as newspapers and YouTube. Some require a payment.\n\nLanguage learning strategies have attracted increasing focus as a way of understanding the process of language acquisition.\n\nClearly listening is used to learn, but not all language learners employ it consciously. Listening to understand is one level of listening but focused listening is not something that most learners employ as a strategy.\n\nMany people read to understand but the strategy of reading text to learn grammar and discourse styles can also be employed.\n\nTranslation and rote memorization have been the two strategies that have been employed traditionally. There are other strategies that also can be used such as guessing, based on looking for contextual clues, spaced repetition with a use of various apps, games and tools (e.g. DuoLingo, LingoMonkey and Vocabulary Stickers). Knowledge about how the brain works can be utilized in creating strategies for how to remember words.\n\nCode switching, that is, changing between languages at some point in a sentence or utterance, is a commonly used communication strategy among language learners and bilinguals. While traditional methods of formal instruction often discourage code switching, students, especially those placed in a language immersion situation, often use it. If viewed as a learning strategy, wherein the student uses the target language as much as possible but reverts to their native language for any element of an utterance that they are unable to produce in the target language (as, e.g., in Wolfgang Butzkamm's concept of enlightened monolingualism), then it has the advantages that it encourages fluency development and motivation and a sense of accomplishment by enabling the student to discuss topics of interest to him or her early in the learning process—before requisite vocabulary has been memorized. It is particularly effective for students whose native language is English, due to the high probability of a simple English word or short phrase being understood by the conversational partner.\n\nBlended learning combines face-to-face teaching with distance education, frequently electronic, either computer-based or web-based. It has been a major growth point in the ELT (English Language Teaching) industry over the last ten years. \n\nSome people, though, use the phrase 'Blended Learning' to refer to learning taking place while the focus is on other activities. For example, playing a card game that requires calling for cards may allow blended learning of numbers (1 to 10).\n\nWhen talking about language skills, the four basic ones are: listening, speaking, reading and writing. However, other, more socially based skills have been identified more recently such as summarizing, describing, narrating etc. In addition, more general learning skills such as study skills and knowing how one learns have been applied to language classrooms.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, the four basic skills were generally taught in isolation in a very rigid order, such as listening before speaking. However, since then, it has been recognized that we generally use more than one skill at a time, leading to more integrated exercises. Speaking is a skill that often is underrepresented in the traditional classroom. This is due to the fact that it is considered harder to teach and test. There are numerous texts on teaching and testing writing but relatively few on speaking.\n\nMore recent textbooks stress the importance of students working with other students in pairs and groups, sometimes the entire class. Pair and group work give opportunities for more students to participate more actively. However, supervision of pairs and groups is important to make sure everyone participates as equally as possible. Such activities also provide opportunities for peer teaching, where weaker learners can find support from stronger classmates.\n\nIn foreign language teaching, the sandwich technique is the oral insertion of an idiomatic translation in the mother tongue between an unknown phrase in the learned language and its repetition, in order to convey meaning as rapidly and completely as possible. The mother tongue equivalent can be given almost as an aside, with a slight break in the flow of speech to mark it as an intruder.\n\nWhen modeling a dialogue sentence for students to repeat, the teacher not only gives an oral mother tongue equivalent for unknown words or phrases, but repeats the foreign language phrase before students imitate it: L2 => L1 => L2. For example, a German teacher of English might engage in the following exchange with the students:\n\nMother tongue mirroring is the adaptation of the time-honoured technique of literal translation or word-for word translation for pedagogical purposes. The aim is to make foreign constructions salient and transparent to learners and, in many cases, spare them the technical jargon of grammatical analysis. It differs from literal translation and interlinear text as used in the past since it takes the progress learners have made into account and only focuses upon a specific structure at a time. As a didactic device, it can only be used to the extent that it remains intelligible to the learner, unless it is combined with a normal idiomatic translation. This technique is seldom referred to or used these days.\n\nBack-chaining is a technique used in teaching oral language skills, especially with polysyllabic or difficult words. The teacher pronounces the last syllable, the student repeats, and then the teacher continues, working backwards from the end of the word to the beginning.\n\nFor example, to teach the name ‘Mussorgsky' a teacher will pronounce the last syllable: \"-sky,\" and have the student repeat it. Then the teacher will repeat it with \"-sorg-\" attached before: \"-sorg-sky,\" and all that remains is the first syllable: \"Mus-sorg-sky.\"\n\nPractices in language education may vary by region however the underlying understandings which drive it are fundamentally similar. Rote repetition, drilling, memorisation and grammar conjugating are used the world over. Sometimes there are different preferences teaching methods by region. Language immersion is popular in some European countries, but is not used very much in the United States, in Asia or in Australia.\n\nThe languages being learned differ; in the United States, Spanish is the most popular language to be learned, whereas the most popular languages to be learned in Australia are Italian and Mandarin Chinese.\n\nAn increasing number of people are now combining holidays with language study in the native country. This enables the student to experience the target culture by meeting local people. Such a holiday often combines formal lessons, cultural excursions, leisure activities, and a homestay, perhaps with time to travel in the country afterwards. Language study holidays are popular across Europe (Malta & UK being the most popular because almost everyone speaks English as a first language) and Asia due to the ease of transportation and variety of nearby countries. These holidays have become increasingly more popular in Central and South America in such countries as Guatemala, Ecuador and Peru. As a consequence of this increasing popularity, several international language education agencies have flourished in recent years.\nWith the increasing prevalence of international business transactions, it is now important to have multiple languages at one's disposal. This is also evident in businesses outsourcing their departments to Eastern Europe.\n\nThe principal policy arguments in favor of promoting minority language education are the need for multilingual workforces, intellectual and cultural benefits and greater inclusion in global information society. Access to education in a minority language is also seen as a human right as granted by the European Convention on Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the UN Human Rights Committee. Bilingual Education has been implemented in many countries including the United States, in order to promote both the use and appreciation of the minority language, as well as the majority language concerned.\n\nSuitable resources for teaching and learning minority languages can be difficult to find and access, which has led to calls for the increased development of materials for minority language teaching. The internet offers opportunities to access a wider range of texts, audios and videos. Language learning 2.0 (the use of web 2.0 tools for language education) offers opportunities for material development for lesser-taught languages and to bring together geographically dispersed teachers and learners.\n\n\"See also: English language learning and teaching for information on language teaching acronyms and abbreviations which are specific to English.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39587185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39587185", "title": "List of libraries in Ghana", "text": "List of libraries in Ghana\n\nThe following is a list of libraries in Ghana.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47151480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47151480", "title": "List of libraries in Italy", "text": "List of libraries in Italy\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Italy, arranged by region.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35617097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35617097", "title": "Lucy Partington", "text": "Lucy Partington\n\nLucy Katherine Partington (4 March 1952 – some time between 28 December 1973 and 2 January 1974; aged 21) was a British murder victim. She was born in St Albans, the third child of Roger and Margaret (Bardwell) Partington. On the night of 27 December 1973, during her final year of reading English Literature at Exeter University, she was abducted by serial killers Fred and Rosemary West. Her precise date of death is unknown. However, at twenty-five past midnight on 3 January 1974, Fred West admitted himself into the casualty unit at Gloucester Royal hospital with a serious laceration of his right-hand that required several stitches, leading to speculation that she could have been kept alive and tortured for several days in the cellar of the Wests' home in Cromwell Street before finally being murdered. Her remains were discovered there on 6 March 1994 alongside the knife Fred West used to dismember them. \n\nOn 16 February 1995, Partington's remains were reburied in Exeter, Devon.\n\nPartington’s sister, Marian Partington, wrote about the impact of Lucy’s life, disappearance, and death in her memoir, \"If You Sit Very Still\", in May 2012. The book builds on \"Salvaging the Sacred\", an essay written by Marian and published in \"The Guardian Weekend\" in May 1996. The essay inspired a play by Bryony Lavery and a feature film by Juliet McKoen, both entitled \"Frozen\".\n\nPartington was the cousin of novelist Martin Amis. He dedicated his novel \"The Information\" to her and writes about her life and death in his memoir \"Experience\".\n\n"}
{"id": "29481892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29481892", "title": "MREN", "text": "MREN\n\nMREN (Montenegrin Research and Education Network) is a collection of all networking services and facilities that support the information and communication requirements of the education and research community in Montenegro. Sole purpose of MREN is to create, promote, offer, participate in and preserve the requisite bases for use of modern information and communication technologies in the education and research community in Montenegro.\nOne of the main missions of the MREN is connecting Academic Network to GÉANT, and support substantial use of the Pan-European and world research networks by Montenegrin researchers, scientists, lecturers and students. Beside GÉANT, MREN is involved in other key European projects: SEERA-EI, EGI-InSPIRE and HP-SEE. Completed projects in which MREN participated were: SEE-GRID-SCI, SEEREN and SEE-GRID.\nMREN has clear objectives in fulfilling its purpose of supporting ICT in education and research community, and that involves:\n\nAccording to defined objectives, MREN has several activities in fulfilling those objectives, and those are:\n\nFor technical management and monitoring of the National Research and Educational Network, The Information Technology Centre (CIS) of University of Montenegro (UoM) is responsible, while for professional and administrative activities according to MREN demands is responsible Ministry of Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "8752334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8752334", "title": "Mid-Antrim Museums Service", "text": "Mid-Antrim Museums Service\n\nThe Mid-Antrim Museums Service is a local history museum service in County Antrim in Northern Ireland. It is composed of four local museums, Ballymena, Carrickfergus, Larne and Newtownabbey that are dedicated to presenting and preserving history and cultural heritage of mid-Antrim. The MAMS coordinates diverse media and programmes for its constituent museums, including museum and community-based exhibitions, temporary and travelling exhibitions, schools programmes, loan boxes and an EU-Peace-II-funded community history programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "19897380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19897380", "title": "National Socialist Teachers League", "text": "National Socialist Teachers League\n\nThe National Socialist Teachers League (German: , NSLB), was established on 21 April 1929. Its original name was the Organization of National Socialist Educators. Its founder and first leader was former schoolteacher and Bayreuth Gauleiter Hans Schemm. The organization was based in Bayreuth at the House of German Education. On October 27, 1938 the NSLB opened its own Realschule for teacher training in Bayreuth.\n\nAfter Schemm's death in 1935, the new leader, or \"Reichswalter\", was Fritz Wächtler.\n\nThis organization saw itself as \"the common effort of all persons who saw themselves as teachers or wanted to be seen as educators, independently from background or education and from the type of educational institution\". Its goal was to make the National Socialist worldview and foundation of all education and especially of schooling. In order to achieve this it sought to have an effect on the political viewpoint of educators, insisting on the further development of their spirit along Nationalsocialist lines. Organized mountain excursions in places called (Exchange Camps of the Reich) were perceived as helping in this purpose.\n\nThe organization was dissolved in 1943 by the financial administration of the NSDAP.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22841939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22841939", "title": "Nikolay Konstantinov", "text": "Nikolay Konstantinov\n\nNikolay Nikolayevich Konstantinov (; born 2 January 1932) is a leading Soviet and Russian mathematical educator and organizer of numerous mathematics competitions for high school students. He is best known as the creator and chief organizer of the Tournament of the Towns. For his work he was awarded the Paul Erdős award in 1992.\n\nKonstantinov was born and grew up in Moscow, Soviet Union. He graduated from the Physics Department of the Moscow State University in 1954, and later received a Ph.D. in physics.\n\nIn the 1950s he started a math circle in Moscow University and since the 1960s in a number of Moscow high schools. He continued working with schools developing special classes with mathematics concentration and individual approach to learning. His students went on to win mathematics competitions on all levels and dozens of them became well known mathematicians.\n\nIn 1978, Konstantinov started the Lomonosov tournament, a multi-subject science competition. This tournament is continued every year since then. In 1980, he started the international Tournament of the Towns which is now organized in over 150 towns in 25 countries.\n\nIn 1990 Konstantinov was one of the founders of Independent University of Moscow, one of the leading institutions of higher learning in mathematics in Russia.\n\nEven now, in his late 80's, Konstantinov continues working in Moscow High School 179 and is an editor of Kvant magazine, a popular Russian science publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1234416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1234416", "title": "Nordic Centre in India", "text": "Nordic Centre in India\n\nThe Nordic Centre in India (NCI) is a consortium of leading universities and research institutions in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. It was established in 2001 with the objective to facilitate cooperation in research and higher education between the Nordic countries and India. Through academic exchange NCI seeks to strengthen Indo-Nordic ties and understanding.\n\nThe possibility to establish a Nordic centre in India was discussed already in 1995 during a meeting of the Nordic Association of South Asian Studies (NASA), an organization established in 1990 to promote exchanges between researchers and students in South Asia Studies. As a result of this and following discussions, the Nordic Centre in India (NCI) was founded in April 2001 at the inaugural General Assembly in Copenhagen as a consortium of leading universities and research institutions in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden. The main objective of the consortium, which initially consisted of eight member universities and research institutions in the Nordic countries, was to strengthen and enhance Indian and South Asian studies in the Nordic countries and to support activities in India and with Indian counterparts.\n\nThe first years of NCI were devoted to the recruitment of new members of the consortium, to setting up the offices in India and in the Nordic region, identifying collaboration partners in India and tailoring shorter training programs and summer courses in India for students from the member universities. In 2004, NCI was approved by the Indian government and could set up a liaison office in India. A formal decision on the approval was taken by the Minister for Human Resources Development and publicly announced during an official visit to India by the Norwegian Deputy Foreign Minister in October 2004.\n\nThe organizational structure of the Nordic Centre in India consists of the General Assembly, the Board, and the Director. The General Assembly includes representatives from all the Nordic member universities and handles all matters of principle and of strategic importance for the NCI. The Board consists of one elected Chairperson and five members and their deputies from each Nordic country and ensures that NCI operates in accordance with its aims and regulations. The Director is appointed for a fixed period of time and is responsible for the daily activities. The Nordic secretariat and office of NCI circulates between the member universities and is currently located at the Umeå University, Sweden.\n\nNordic Offices: \nTo encourage academic exchange between the Nordic countries and India, NCI organizes a wide range of research and study activities in India and in the Nordic countries, such as meetings and events to promote Indian research in the Nordic countries and Nordic research in India, lectures by Nordic scholars in India and Indian scholars in the Nordic countries, as well as workshops and seminars on various themes related to studies and research on India and South Asia. To students, researchers, and representatives of the Nordic member universities NCI also provides practical assistance with visa applications, research affiliations and visits at Indian universities and institutes, and help when establishing research cooperation between Nordic and Indian universities. Scholars and representatives of the member universities also have the opportunity to stay at the Director's residence in Delhi.\n\nThe consortium NCI consists of 20 member universities in Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden, and 3 associate members.\n\nDENMARK\n\nFINLAND\n\nICELAND\n\nNORWAY\n\nSWEDEN\n\nAssociate Members\n\nNCI has agreements and cooperates with the following universities and research institutes in India:\n\nIn cooperation with the University of Hyderabad, NCI offers a four-week-long summer training program on \"Contemporary India\" as well as provides students from the member universities the opportunity to spend a full semester in Hyderabad through the Study in India Program (SIP). NCI also runs a summer training program titled \"Approaching the Environment in India\" together with the Institute of Social and Economic Change (ISEC) in Bangalore, and a summer program on \"Demography, Gender and Reproductive Health\" in cooperation with the International Institute of Population Sciences (IIPS) in Mumbai.The summer course \"Human Rights in India An Introduction\" is organized at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) in Bangalore. With India in context, this program aims to deliberate and provide an intensive immersion in Human Rights Law and Practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "14317944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14317944", "title": "Plus Magazine", "text": "Plus Magazine\n\nPlus Magazine is an online popular mathematics magazine run under the Millennium Mathematics Project at the University of Cambridge.\n\n\"Plus\" contains:\n\n\n\"Plus\" was initially named PASS Maths (Public Awareness and Schools Support for Maths) in 1997, when it was a project of the Interactive Courseware Research and Development Group, based jointly at the University of Cambridge and Keele University. \"Plus\" is now part of the Millennium Mathematics Project, a long term national initiative based in Cambridge and active across the UK and internationally.\n\nAuthors of articles in \"Plus\" include Stephen Hawking and Marcus du Sautoy.\n\n\"Plus\" won the 2001 Webby for \"Best Science Site on the Web\", and has been described as \"an excellent site put together by those with a real love for the subject\". In 2006 the Millennium Mathematics Project, of which \"Plus\" is a part, won the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Higher Education.\n\n"}
{"id": "49986611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49986611", "title": "Positive handling", "text": "Positive handling\n\nPositive handling is a term used in British primary and special-needs education for physical restraint. It has been described as \"risk-reduced physical interventions that form part of the holistic response\" The term has been in use since at least 2000.\n\nPositive handling refers to a graduated approach that moves towards the control of extreme behaviour by adopting the least intrusive intervention for the shortest period of time to achieve the aim. It is one of the most efficient method of training on how to control a disruptive pupil whilst protecting them, and remaining compliant with legislation.\n\nThe objective of prevention and intervention techniques is to prevent school violence from occurring. Support for staff is the key to handling student aggression in schools.\n\nTo support it, the staff requires training, which is also a legal obligation of teaching institutions.The avoidance of any physical intervention is a first priority. The principle involves the graduated use of de-escalation approaches before resorting to physical intervention as the last resort, if any other approaches have failed or are likely to fail.\n\nUsing excessive force is abusive and unlawful, but the danger lies in the term “Minimum Force”. Unintentionally, we can enter a situation known as “The law of unintended consequence”.\n\nPositive Handling is a statutory and mandatory training, in accordance to Section 2 and 3 of the Health and Safety as Work Act 1974.\n\nIt represents a significant investment and undertaking for all staff. Increasingly, staff and managers have expressed the need to acknowledge existing understanding and experience due to raising violence in schools.\n"}
{"id": "45358155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45358155", "title": "Pupil premium", "text": "Pupil premium\n\nThe pupil premium is a grant given by the government to schools in England to decrease the attainment gap for the most disadvantaged children, whether by income or by family upheaval. For each pupil who is eligible for free school meals, their school receives £1,320 (if a primary school) or £935 (if a secondary school).\n\nSchools receive an extra premium of £1,900 for pupils:\n\nService children also receive an allocation of £300, if a parent is serving in the armed forces or is in receipt of a service pension.\n\nThe pupil premium was introduced in 2011 by the Conservative—Liberal Democrat coalition government at £488 per pupil. It increased to £600 per pupil in 2012–13 and eligibility was extended to pupils who have been eligible for free school meals at any point in the last six years (known as the 'Ever 6' Free School Meals measure).\n\nSchools in receipt of the pupil premium grant are required to account for its use and report this on their websites, and with specific reference to how it is used to help disadvantaged pupils, as part of the OFSTED inspection framework. Ofsted will recommend that a school should conduct an independent pupil premium review if, as a result of a section 5 inspection, it has identified specific issues regarding the provision for disadvantaged pupils.\n\nThe Department for Education published an evaluation of the introduction of the pupil premium by the University of Manchester and Newcastle University in 2013 which reviewed how schools were identifying and targeting disadvantaged pupils for support.\n\nThe think tank Demos published an analysis in January 2015. They claim that, since 2011, for free school meals-eligible pupils, whose number has grown significantly, the attainment gap has widened, whereas it has narrowed for those in local authority care. It noted the number of free school meal-eligible pupils who achieved 5 GCSEs (including English and Mathematics) at grades A*-C was 33.7%, compared to 60.7% for non-eligible students (as at the first-round Summer 2014 results); with lower relative attainment by 27 percent of such students. It added the gap widened by 0.3% since 2013. This follows a similar widening in its previous report. However it noted in the same period overall attainment has increased significantly.\n\nThe Department for Education has disputed Demos' analysis, its spokesman stating: \"It is nonsense to say that the attainment gap is widening. The 2014 results – when analysed with our more informative and accurate measure – show the gap has narrowed by almost 4 per cent since 2012, the year after the pupil premium was introduced.\" The Sutton Trust reviewed the impact of the introduction of the pupil premium in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "8063574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8063574", "title": "Rasammah Bhupalan", "text": "Rasammah Bhupalan\n\nRasammah Bhupalan (born 1 May 1927), also known as Rasammah Naomi Navarednam or Mrs F.R. Bhupalan, is a Malaysian freedom fighter and social activist.\n\nShe has championed causes such as the anti-drug abuse movement, women's rights, education and social justice causes.\n\nRasammah was one of the earliest women involved in the fight for Malaysian (then Malaya) independence. She joined the Rani of Jhansi Regiment, the women's wing of the Indian National Army, to fight the British. She served in Burma during World War II.\n\nAs founder president of the Women Teacher's Union, she fought for equal pay for women teachers and tried to bring disparate teachers' unions under an umbrella.\n\nThe former school principal was the first Asian representative of the World Confederation of Organisations of the Teaching Profession for two successive terms. She was also very active in the National Council of Women's Organisation (NCWO) and Pemadam.\n\nBhupalan was a teacher in the Methodist Boys School Kuala Lumpur (MBSSKL) from 1959 to 1964 and was the principal of Methodist Girls School Kuala Lumpur (MGSKL) for 14 years from 1969 until she retired in 1982. On 11 November 2007, Mrs.Bhupalan was among the few veteran teachers who were honored at MBSSKL's 110th Anniversary Celebration Dinner. The dinner was specially organized to honour all the former and current teachers of the school.\n\nOn 21 November 2006, a book entitled \"Footprints on The Sands of Time, Rasammah Bhupalan: A Life of Purpose\" authored by Associate Professor Dr Aruna Gopinath was launched by Culture, Arts and Tourism Minister Datuk Dr Rais Yatim.\nThe biography, published with the support of the National Archives, the ministry and NCWO, is about the life of Rasammah seen in a historical context.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2156933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2156933", "title": "School refusal", "text": "School refusal\n\nSchool refusal is the refusal to attend school due to emotional distress. School refusal differs from truancy in that children with school refusal feel anxiety or fear towards school, whereas truant children generally have no feelings of fear towards school, often feeling angry or bored with it instead. Children's Hospital Boston provides a chart showing the difference between school refusal and truancy.\n\nThe term \"school refusal\" was coined to reflect that children have problems attending school for a variety of different reasons and these reasons might not be the expression of a true phobia, such as separation or social anxiety.\n\nSymptoms of school refusal include the child saying they feel sick often or waking up with a headache, stomachache, or sore throat. If the child stays home from school, these symptoms might go away but come back the next morning before school. Additionally, children with school refusal may have crying spells or throw temper tantrums.\n\nWarning signs of school refusal include frequent complaints about attending school, frequent tardiness or unexcused absences, absences on significant days (tests, speeches, physical education class), frequent requests to call or go home, excessive worrying about a parent when in school, frequent requests to go to the nurse’s office because of physical complaints, and crying about wanting to go home.\n\nIf a parent wishes to keep their child in school, they must correct the problem quickly; the longer a child stays out of school, the harder it will be to return. However, it may be hard to accomplish as when forced they are prone to temper tantrums, crying spells, psychosomatic or panic symptoms and threats of self-harm. These problems quickly fade if the child is allowed to stay home.\n\nAlthough school refusal is not a clinical disorder according to the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\", Fourth Edition, it can be associated with several psychiatric disorders, including Separation Anxiety Disorder, Social Phobia, and Conduct Disorder. Therefore it is critical that youths who are school refusing receive a comprehensive evaluation by a mental health professional.\nWhereas some cases of school refusal can be resolved by gradual re-introduction to the school environment, some others may need to be treated with some form of psychodynamic or cognitive behaviour therapy. Some families have sought alternative education for school refusers which has also proved to be effective. In extreme cases, some form of medication is sometimes prescribed but none of these have stood out prominently as solutions to the problem.\n\nA medical condition often mistaken for school refusal is delayed sleep phase syndrome (DSPS). DSPS is a circadian rhythm sleep disorder which is characterized by a chronic delayed sleep cycle.\n\nThe attempt to control by means of threats or pressure, the behavior of the student, is also still in danger as external (extrinsic) motivation to undermine intrinsic motivation and a sense of self-control, self-worth and self-responsibility. Some social scientists and evaluators view the condition as a pseudophobia.\n\nFactors that can cause reluctance to attend school can be divided into four categories. These categories have been developed based on studies in the United States under the leadership of Professor Christopher Kearney. Some students may be affected by several factors at once.\n\n\nOther factors can be:\n\nCertain children who are particularly attached to their mother or other family figure due to separation anxiety and/or attachment theory often suffer the onset early, in pre-school, crèche or before school starts.\n\nSchool phobia is diagnosed primarily through questionnaires and interviews with doctors. Other methods like observation have not proven to be as useful. This is partly because (school) anxiety is an internal phenomenon. An example of a modern multidimensional questionnaire is the \"Differential Power Anxiety Inventory 'approach, with twelve scales to diagnose four different areas: anxiety-inducing conditions, manifestations, coping strategies and stabilization forms.\"\n\n\nApproximately 1 to 5% of school-aged children have school refusal, though it is most common in 5- and 6-year olds and in 10- and 11-year olds, it occurs more frequently during major changes in a child’s life, such as entrance to kindergarten, changing from elementary to middle school, or changing from middle to high school. The problem may start following vacations, school holidays, summer vacation, or brief illness, after the child has been home for some time, and usually ends prior to vacations, school holidays, or summer vacation, before the child will be out of school for some time. School refusal can also occur after a stressful event, such as moving to a new house, or the death of a pet or relative.\n\nThe rate is similar within both genders, and although it is significantly more prevalent in some urban areas, there are no known socioeconomic differences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10275724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10275724", "title": "Selma Jeanne Cohen Award", "text": "Selma Jeanne Cohen Award\n\nThe Selma Jeanne Cohen Award is a writing award offered by the Dance Studies Association (DSA) for the best graduate student paper submission to the annual conference. Prior to the DSA's foundation in 2017, the award was sponsored by the Society of Dance History Scholars. The award was established in 1995 to honor Selma Jeanne Cohen's contributions to the field of dance history, and to encourage and recognize exemplary scholarship among students researching dance. The award includes a travel grant and registration fee waiver for the annual conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "516775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=516775", "title": "Student activism", "text": "Student activism\n\nStudent activism is work by students to cause political, environmental, economic, or social change. Although often focused on schools, curriculum, and educational funding, student groups have influenced greater political events.\n\nModern student activist movements vary widely in subject, size, and success, with all kinds of students in all kinds of educational settings participating, including public and private school students; elementary, middle, senior, undergraduate, and graduate students; and all races, socio-economic backgrounds, and political perspectives. Some student protests focus on the internal affairs of a specific institution; others focus on broader issues such as a war or dictatorship. Likewise, some student protests focus on an institution's impact on the world, such as a disinvestment campaign, while others may focus on a regional or national policy's impact on the institution, such as a campaign against government education policy. Although student activism is commonly associated with left-wing politics, right-wing student movements are not uncommon; for example, large student movements fought on both sides of the apartheid struggle in South Africa.\n\nStudent activism at the university level is nearly as old as the university itself. Students in Paris and Bologna staged collective actions as early as the 13th century, chiefly over town and gown issues. Student protests over broader political issues also have a long pedigree. In Joseon Dynasty Korea, 150 Sungkyunkwan students staged an unprecedented remonstration against the king in 1519 over the Kimyo purge.\n\nIn Argentina, as elsewhere in Latin America, the tradition of student activism dates back to at least the 19th century, but it was not until after 1900 that it became a major political force. in 1918 student activism triggered a general modernization of the universities especially tending towards democratization, called the University Revolution (Spanish: \"revolución universitaria\"). The events started in Córdoba and were accompanied by similar uprisings across Latin America.\n\nAustralian Students have a long history of being active in political debates. This is particularly true in the newer universities that have been established in suburban areas.\n\nFor much of the 20th century, the major campus organizing group across Australia was the Australian Union of Students, which was founded in 1937 as the Union of Australian University Students. The AUS folded in 1984. It was replaced by the National Union of Students in 1987.\n\nStudent politics of Bangladesh is reactive, confrontational and violent. Student organizations act as the armament of the political parties they are part of. Over the years, political clashes and factional feuds in the educational institutes killed many, seriously hampering the academic atmosphere. To check those hitches, universities have no options but go to lengthy and unexpected closures. Therefore, classes are not completed on time and there are session jams.\n\nThe student wings of ruling parties dominate the campuses and residential halls through crime and violence to enjoy various unauthorized facilities. They control the residential halls to manage seats in favor of their party members and loyal pupils. They eat and buy for free from the restaurants and shops nearby. They extort and grab tenders to earn illicit money. They take money from the freshmen candidates and put pressure on teachers to get an acceptance for them. They take money from the job seekers and put pressures on university administrations to appoint them.\n\nIn Canada, New Left student organizations from the late 1950s and 1960s became mainly two: SUPA (Student Union for Peace Action) and CYC (Company of Young Canadians). SUPA grew out of the CUCND (Combined Universities Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament) in December 1964, at a University of Saskatchewan conference. While CUCND had focused on protest marches, SUPA sought to change Canadian society as a whole. The scope expanded to grass-roots politics in disadvantaged communities and 'consciousness raising' to radicalize and raise awareness of the 'generation gap' experienced by Canadian youth. SUPA was a decentralized organization, rooted in local university campuses. SUPA however disintegrated in late 1967 over debates concerning the role of working class and 'Old Left'. Members moved to the CYC or became active leaders in CUS (Canadian Union of Students), leading the CUS to assume the mantle of New Left student agitation.\n\nIn 1968, SDU (Students for a Democratic University) was formed at McGill and Simon Fraser Universities. SFU SDU, originally former SUPA members and New Democratic Youth, absorbed members from the campus Liberal Club and Young Socialists. SDU was prominent in an Administration occupation in 1968, and a student strike in 1969. After the failure of the student strike, SDU broke up. Some members joined the IWW and Yippies (Youth International Party). Other members helped form the Vancouver Liberation Front in 1970. The FLQ (Quebec Liberation Front) was considered a terrorist organization, causing the use of the War Measures Act after 95 bombings in the October Crisis. This was the only peacetime use of the War Measures Act.\n\nSince the 1970s, PIRGs (Public Interest Research Groups) have been created as a result of Student Union referendums across Canada in individual provinces. Like their American counterparts, Canadian PIRGs are student directed, run, and funded. Most operate on a consensus decision making model. Despite efforts at collaboration, Canadian PIRGs are independent of each other.\n\nAnti-Bullying Day (a.k.a. Pink Shirt Day) was created by high school students David Shepherd, and Travis Price of Berwick, Nova Scotia, and is now celebrated annually across Canada.\n\nIn 2012, the Quebec Student Movement arose due to an increase of tuition of 75%; that took students out of class and into the streets because that increase did not allow students to comfortably extend their education, because of fear of debt or not having money at all. Following elections that year, premier Jean Charest promised to repeal anti-assembly laws and cancel the tuition hike.\n\nFrom 2011 to 2013, Chile was rocked by a series of student-led nationwide protests across Chile, demanding a new framework for education in the country, including more direct state participation in secondary education and an end to the existence of profit in higher education. Currently in Chile, only 45% of high school students study in traditional public schools and most universities are also private. No new public universities have been built since the end of the Chilean transition to democracy in 1990, even though the number of university students has swelled. Beyond the specific demands regarding education, the protests reflected a \"deep discontent\" among some parts of society with Chile's high level of inequality. Protests have included massive non-violent marches, but also a considerable amount of violence on the part of a side of protestors as well as riot police.\n\nThe first clear government response to the protests was a proposal for a new education fund and a cabinet shuffle which replaced Minister of Education Joaquín Lavín and was seen as not fundamentally addressing student movement concerns. Other government proposals were also rejected.\n\nSince the defeat of the Qing Dynasty during the First (1839–1842) and Second Opium Wars (1856–1860), student activism has played a significant role in the modern Chinese history. Fueled mostly by Chinese nationalism, Chinese student activism strongly believes that young people are responsible for China's future. This strong nationalistic belief has been able to manifest in several forms such as Democracy, anti-Americanism and Communism.\n\nOne of the most important acts of student activism in Chinese history is the 1919 May Fourth Movement that saw over 3,000 students of Peking University and other schools gathered together in front of Tiananmen and holding a demonstration. It is regarded as an essential step of the democratic revolution in China, and it had also give birth to Chinese Communism. Anti-Americanism movements led by the students during the Chinese Civil War were also instrumental in discrediting the KMT government and bring the Communist victory in China. In 1989, the democracy movement led by the students at the Tiananmen Square protests ended in a brutal government crackdown which would later be called a massacre.\n\nStudent activism played an important, yet understudied, role in Congo’s crisis of decolonisation. Throughout the 1960s, students denounced the unfinished decolonisation of higher education and the unrealised promises of national independence. The two issues crossed in the demonstration of June 4th, 1969. Student activism continues and women such as Aline Mukovi Neema, winner of 100 Women BBC award, continue to campaign for political change in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\n\nDuring communist rule, students in Eastern Europe were the force behind several of the best-known instances of protest. The chain of events leading to the 1956 Hungarian Revolution was started by peaceful student demonstrations in the streets of Budapest, later attracting workers and other Hungarians. In Czechoslovakia, one of the most known faces of the protests following the Soviet-led invasion that ended the Prague Spring was Jan Palach, a student who committed suicide by setting fire to himself on January 16, 1969. The act triggered a major protest against the occupation.\n\nStudent-dominated youth movements have also played a central role in the \"color revolutions\" seen in post-communist societies in recent years. The first example of this was the Serbian Otpor! (\"Resistance!\" in Serbian), formed in October 1998 as a response to repressive university and media laws that were introduced that year. In the presidential campaign in September 2000, the organisation engineered the \"Gotov je\" (\"He's finished\") campaign that galvanized Serbian discontent with Slobodan Milošević, ultimately resulting in his defeat.\n\nOtpor has inspired other youth movements in Eastern Europe, such as Kmara in Georgia, which played an important role in the Rose Revolution, and Pora in Ukraine, which was key in organising the demonstrations that led to the Orange Revolution. Like Otpor, these organisations have consequently practiced non-violent resistance and used ridiculing humor in opposing authoritarian leaders. Similar movements include KelKel in Kyrgyzstan, Zubr in Belarus and MJAFT! in Albania.\n\nOpponents of the \"color revolutions\" have accused the Soros Foundations and/or the United States government of supporting and even planning the revolutions in order to serve western interests. Supporters of the revolutions have argued that these allegations are greatly exaggerated, and that the revolutions were positive events, morally justified, whether or not Western support had an influence on the events.\n\nIn France, student activists have been influential in shaping public debate. In May 1968 the University of Paris at Nanterre was closed due to problems between the students and the administration. In protest of the closure and the expulsion of Nanterre students, students of the Sorbonne in Paris began their own demonstration. The situation escalated into a nationwide insurrection.\n\nThe events in Paris were followed by student protests throughout the world. The German student movement participated in major demonstrations against proposed emergency legislation. In many countries, the student protests caused authorities to respond with violence. In Spain, student demonstrations against Franco's dictatorship led to clashes with police. A student demonstration in Mexico City ended in a storm of bullets on the night of October 2, 1968, an event known as the Tlatelolco massacre. Even in Pakistan, students took to the streets to protest changes in education policy, and on November 7 two college students died after police opened fire on a demonstration. The global reverberations from the French uprising of 1968 continued into 1969 and even into the 1970s.\n\nIn 1815 in Jena (Germany) the \"Urburschenschaft\" was founded. That was a Studentenverbindung that was concentrated on national and democratic ideas.\nIn 1817, inspired by liberal and patriotic ideas of a united Germany, student organisations gathered for the Wartburg festival at Wartburg Castle, at Eisenach in Thuringia, on the occasion of which reactionary books were burnt.\n\nIn 1819 the student Karl Ludwig Sand murdered the writer August von Kotzebue, who had scoffed at liberal student organisations.\n\nIn May 1832 the Hambacher Fest was celebrated at Hambach Castle near Neustadt an der Weinstraße with about 30 000 participants, amongst them many students. Together with the Frankfurter Wachensturm in 1833 planned to free students held in prison at Frankfurt and Georg Büchner's revolutionary pamphlet \"Der Hessische Landbote\" that were events that led to the revolutions in the German states in 1848.\n\nIn the 1960s, the worldwide upswing in student and youth radicalism manifested itself through the German student movement and organisations such as the German Socialist Student Union. The movement in Germany shared many concerns of similar groups elsewhere, such as the democratisation of society and opposing the Vietnam War, but also stressed more nationally specific issues such as coming to terms with the legacy of the Nazi regime and opposing the German Emergency Acts.\n\nHong Kong Student activist group Scholarism began an occupation of the Hong Kong government headquarters on 30 August 2012. The goal of the protest was, expressly, to force the government to retract its plans to introduce Moral and National Education as a compulsory subject. On 1 September, an open concert was held as part of the protest, with an attendance of 40,000. At last, the government de facto struck down the Moral and National Education.\n\nStudent organizations made important roles during the Umbrella Movement. Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPCSC) made decisions on the Hong Kong political reform on 31 August 2014, which the Nominating Committee would tightly control the nomination of the Chief Executive candidate, candidates outside the Pro-Beijing camp would not have opportunities to be nominated. The Hong Kong Federation of Students and Scholarism led a strike against the NPCSC's decision beginning on 22 September 2014, and started protesting outside the government headquarters on 26 September 2014. On 28 September, the Occupy Central with Love and Peace movement announced that the beginning of their civil disobedience campaign. Students and other members of the public demonstrated outside government headquarters, and some began to occupy several major city intersections.\n\nThe Assam Movement (or Assam Agitation) (1979-1985) was a popular movement against illegal immigrants in Assam. The movement, led by All Assam Students Union(AASU) and the 'All Assam Gana Sangram Parishad' (AAGSP), developed a program of protests and demonstration to compel the Indian government to identify and expel illegal, (mostly Bangladeshisi), immigrants and protect and provide constitutional, legislative and administrative safeguards to the indigenous Assamese people.\nOn 16 January 2017 a large group of students (more than 20 lakhs) protested in state of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry for the ban on Jallikattu. The ban was made by the Supreme Court of India in 2014 when PETA filed a petition against Jallikattu as a cruelty to animals. On 20 January a temporary ordinance was passed, lifting the ban on Jallikattu.\n\nIndonesia is often believed to have hosted \"some of the most important acts of student resistance in the world's history\". University student groups have repeatedly been the first groups to stage street demonstrations calling for governmental change at key points in the nation's history, and other organizations from across the political spectrum have sought to align themselves with student groups. In 1928, the Youth Pledge (Sumpah Pemuda) helped to during Rouhani’s first term in office (2013–2017)give voice to anti-colonial sentiments.\n\nDuring the political turmoil of the 1960s, right-wing student groups staged demonstrations calling for then-President Sukarno to eliminate alleged Communists from his government, and later demanding that he resign. Sukarno did step down in 1967, and was replaced by Army general Suharto.\n\nStudent groups also played a key role in Suharto's 1998 fall by initiating large demonstrations that gave voice to widespread popular discontent with the president in the aftermath of the May 1998 riots. High school and university students in Jakarta, Yogyakarta, Medan, and elsewhere were some of the first groups willing to speak out publicly against the military government. Student groups were a key part of the political scene during this period. Upon taking office after Suharto stepped down, B. J. Habibie made numerous mostly unsuccessful overtures to placate the student groups that had brought down his predecessor. When that failed, he sent a combined force of police and gangsters to evict protesters occupying a government building by force. The ensuing carnage left two students dead and 181 injured.\n\nIn Iran, students have been at the forefront of protests both against the pre-1979 secular monarchy and, in recent years, against the theocratic islamic republic. Both religious and more moderate students played a major part in Ruhollah Khomeini's opposition network against the Shah Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. In January 1978 the army dispersed demonstrating students and religious leaders, killing several students and sparking a series of widespread protests that ultimately led to the Iranian Revolution the following year. On November 4, 1979, militant Iranian students calling themselves the Muslim Students Following the Line of the Imam seized the U.S. embassy in Tehran holding 52 embassy employees hostage for a 444 days (see Iran hostage crisis).\n\nRecent years have seen several incidents when liberal students have clashed with the Iranian government, most notably the Iranian student riots of July 1999. Several people were killed in a week of violent confrontations that started with a police raid on a university dormitory, a response to demonstrations by a group of students of Tehran University against the closure of a reformist newspaper. Akbar Mohammadi was given a death sentence, later reduced to 15 years in prison, for his role in the protests. In 2006, he died at Evin prison after a hunger strike protesting the refusal to allow him to seek medical treatment for injuries suffered as a result of torture.\n\nAt the end of 2002, students held mass demonstrations protesting the death sentence of reformist lecturer Hashem Aghajari for alleged blasphemy. In June 2003, several thousand students took to the streets of Tehran in anti-government protests sparked by government plans to privatise some universities.\n\nIn the May 2005 Iranian presidential election, Iran's largest student organization, The Office to Consolidate Unity, advocated a voting boycott. After the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, student protests against the government has continued. In May 2006, up to 40 police officers were injured in clashes with demonstrating students in Tehran. At the same time, the Iranian government has called for student action in line with its own political agenda. In 2006, President Ahmadinejad urged students to organize campaigns to demand that liberal and secular university teachers be removed.\n\nIn 2009, after the disputed presidential election, a series of student protests broke out, which became known as the Iranian Green Movement. The violent measures used by the Iranian government to suppress these protests have been the subject of widespread international condemnation. As a consequence of hash repression, \"the student movement entered a period of silence during Ahmadinejad’s second term (2009–2013)\". \n\nDuring the first term of Hassan Rouhani in office (2013-2017) several groups endeavored to revive the student movement through rebuilding student organizations. \n\nIn Israel the students were amongst the leading figures in the 2011 Israeli social justice protests that grew out of the Cottage cheese boycott.\n\nJapanese student movement began during the Taishō Democracy, and grew in activity after World War II. They were mostly carried out by activist students. One such event was the Anpo opposition movement, which occurred in 1960, in opposition to the Anpo treaty. In the subsequent student uprising in 1968, leftist activists barricaded themselves in universities, resulting in armed conflict with the Japanese police force. Some wider causes were supported including opposition to the Vietnam War and apartheid, and for the acceptance of the hippie lifestyle.\n\nSince the amendment of Section 15 of the Universities and University Colleges Act 1971 (UUCA) in 1975, students were barred from being members of, and expressing support or opposition to, any political parties or \"any organization, body or group of persons which the Minister, after consultation with the Board, has specified in writing to the Vice-Chancellor to be unsuitable to the interests and well-being of the students or the University.\" However, in October 2011, the Court of Appeal ruled that the relevant provision in Section 15 UUCA was unconstitutional due to Article 10 of the Federal Constitution pertaining to freedom of expression.\n\nSince the act prohibiting students from expressing \"support, sympathy or opposition\" to any political party was enacted in 1971, Malaysian students have repeatedly demanded that the ban on political involvement be rescinded. The majority of students are not interested in politics because they are afraid that the universities will take action against them. The UUCA (also known by its Malaysian acronym AUKU) not however been entirely successful in eliminating student activism and political engagement.\n\nIn Kuala Lumpur on 14 April 2012, student activists camped out at Independence Square and marched against a government loan program that they said charged students high interest rates and left them with debt.\n\nThe largest student movement in Malaysia is the Solidariti Mahasiswa Malaysia (SMM; Student Solidarity of Malaysia). This is a coalition group that represents numerous student organizations. Currently, SMM is actively campaigning against the UUCA and a free education at primary, secondary and tertiary level.\n\nDuring the protests of 1968, Mexican government killed an estimated 30 to 300 students and civilian protesters. This killing is known as in the Tlatelolco massacre. killing of an estimated 30 to 300 students and civilians by military and police on October 2, 1968, in the Plaza de las Tres Culturas in the Tlatelolco section of Mexico City. The events are considered part of the Mexican Dirty War, when the government used its forces to suppress political opposition. The massacre occurred 10 days before the opening of the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City.\nMore recent student movements include Yo Soy 132 in 2012. Yo Soy 132 was a social movement composed for the most part of Mexican university students from private and public universities, residents of Mexico, claiming supporters from about 50 cities around the world. It began as opposition to the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) candidate Enrique Peña Nieto and the Mexican media's allegedly biased coverage of the 2012 general election. The name Yo Soy 132, Spanish for \"I Am 132\", originated in an expression of solidarity with the original 131 protest's initiators. The phrase drew inspiration from the Occupy movement and the Spanish 15-M movement. The protest movement was self-proclaimed as the \"Mexican spring\" (an allusion to the Arab Spring) by its first spokespersons, and called the \"Mexican occupy movement\" in the international press.\n\nFollowing the 2014 Iguala mass kidnapping, students responded nationally in protest from marches to destruction of property. Through social media, hashtags such as #TodosSomosAyotzinapa spread and prompted global student response.\n\nStudent activism in the Philippines started by the time of Marcos regime in the late 1960s or early 1970s during the so-called First Quarter Storm of Martial Law. Until today, student activism continues for various causes such as for free education, corruption within the government, and extrajudicial killings. Some groups that lead these protests are the League of Filipino Students (LFS), National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP), Anakpawis, and Kabataan Party-List.\n\nUganda has the second youngest population in the world, with rising numbers of university students seeking improved employment opportunities. Over the last 100 years since the establishment of the first Ugandan university, these students have been especially politically engaged. The structure of the university government system encourages political action, as student leadership positions are viewed as extensions of government elections and parties. During British colonialism and independence, students have played a crucial role in protesting government leadership with varied success.\n\nStudent political activism has existed in U.K since the 1880s with the formation of the student representative councils, precursors of union organisations designed to present students interests. These later evolved into unions, many of which became part of the National Union of Students formed in 1921. However, the NUS was designed to be specifically outside of \"political and religious interests\", reducing its importance as a centre for student activism. During the 1930s students began to become more politically involved with the formation of many socialist societies at universities, ranging from social democratic to Marxist–Leninist and Trotskyite, even leading to Brian Simon, a communist, becoming head of the NUS.\n\nHowever, it was not until the 1960s that student activism became important in British universities. Here, like many other countries, the Vietnam war and issues of racism became a focus for many other local frustrations, such as fees and student representation. In 1962, the first student protest against the Vietnam War was held, with CND. However, student activism did not begin on a large scale until the mid-1960s. In 1965, a student protest of 250 students was held outside Edinburgh's American embassy and the beginning of protests against the Vietnam war in Grovesnor square. It also saw the first major teach-in in Britain in 1965, where students debated the Vietnam War and alternative non-violent means of protest at the London School of Economics, sponsored by the Oxford Union.\n\nIn 1966 the Radical Student Alliance and Vietnam Solidarity Campaign were formed, both of which became centres for the protest movement. However, the first student sit-in was held at the London School of Economics in 1967 by their Student's Union over the suspension of two students. Its success and a national student rally of 100,000 held in the same year is usually considered to mark the start of the movement. Up until the mid-1970s student activities were held including a protest of up to 80,000 strong in Grosvenor Square, anti-racist protests and occupations in Newcastle, the breaking down of riot control gates and forced closure of the London School of Economics, and Jack Straw becoming the head of the NUS for the RSA. However, many protests were over more local issues, such as student representation in college governance, better accommodation, lower fees or even canteen prices.\n\nStudent protests erupted again in 2010 during the Premiership of David Cameron over the issue of tuition fees, higher education funding cuts and withdrawal of the Education Maintenance Allowance.\n\nIn the United States, student activism is often understood as a form of youth activism that can be oriented toward change in the American educational system, civil rights, law enforcement, nuclear weapons, to a wide range of issues. Student activism in the United States dates to the beginning of public education, if not before. Some of the first well documented, directed activism occurred on the campuses of black institutions like Fisk and Howard in the 1920s. At Fisk, student's concerns surrounding disciplinary rules designed to undermine black identity coalesced into demands for the resignation of President Fayette Avery McKenzie. Spurred by alum W.E.B. Du Bois' 1924 commencement speech, the students ignored the 10p.m. curfew to protest, and staged subsequent walkouts. After a committee formed to investigate the protests ruled unfavorably on Mckenzie's abilities and handling of the unrest, he resigned on April 16, 1925. Events at Fisk had wide repercussions, as black students elsewhere began to question the repressive status quo of the postwar black university.\n\nThe next wave of activism was spurred by Depression-era realities of the 1930s. The American Youth Congress was a student-led organization in Washington, DC, which lobbied the US Congress against war and racial discrimination and for youth programs. It was heavily supported by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt.\n\nThe counterculture era of the 1960s and early 1970s saw several waves of student activists gaining increasing political prominence in American society. Students formed social movements that moved them from resistance to liberation. An early important national student group was the Student's Peace Union, established in 1959. Another highlight of this period was Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) launched in Ann Arbor, Michigan, was a student-led organization that focused on schools as a social agent that simultaneously oppresses and potentially uplifts society. SDS eventually spun off the Weather Underground. Another successful group was Ann Arbor Youth Liberation, which featured students calling for an end to state-led education. Also notable were the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee and the Atlanta Student Movement, predominantly African American groups that fought against racism and for integration of public schools across the US. The Free Speech Movement in 1964-65 at UC Berkeley used mass civil disobedience to overturn restrictions on on-campus political activities.\n\nThe longest student strike in American history started on November 6, 1968, and lasted until March 21, 1969, at San Francisco State College to raise awareness of third-world student access to higher education.\n\nThe largest student strike in American history took place in May and June 1970, in response to the Kent State shootings and the American invasion of Cambodia. Over four million students participated in this action.\n\nAmerican society saw an increase in student activism again in the 1990s. The popular education reform movement has led to a resurgence of populist student activism against standardized testing and teaching, as well as more complex issues including military/industrial/prison complex and the influence of the military and corporations in education There is also increased emphasis on ensuring that changes that are made are sustainable, by pushing for better education funding and policy or leadership changes that engage students as decision-makers in schools. Notably, universities participated in the Disinvestment from South Africa movement; University of California, Berkeley, after student activism became the first institution to disinvest completely from companies implicated in and profiting from apartheid.\n\nMajor contemporary campaigns include work for funding of public schools, against increased tuitions at colleges or the use of sweatshop labor in manufacturing school apparel (e.g. United Students Against Sweatshops), for increased student voice throughout education planning, delivery, and policy-making (e.g. The Roosevelt Institution), and to raise national and local awareness of the humanitarian consequences of the Darfur Conflict. There is also increasing activism around the issue of global warming. Antiwar activism has also increased leading to the creation of the Campus Antiwar Network and the refounding of SDS in 2006.\n\nFollowing the national growth of the Black Lives Matter Movement, and more intensely since the 2016 election of U.S. President Donald Trump, student activism has been on the rise. Alt-Right Breitbart senior editor Milo Yiannopoulos' tour Milo Yiannopoulos sparked protest at University of California, Davis, where he was scheduled to speak alongside \"Pharma Bro\" Martin Shkreli and University of California, Berkeley, all shutting his talks down before they started through large-scale protest.\n\nIn February 2018 after the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, many students began to organise rallies and protests against gun violence. A huge series of protests including the March for our lives followed, drawing millions of protesters and notably attacking the NRA as well as US gun laws. A number of student activists such as Emma González who helped lead the protests quickly garnered media attention for their action.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47690099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47690099", "title": "Summer School Marktoberdorf", "text": "Summer School Marktoberdorf\n\nThe International Summer School Marktoberdorf is an annual two-week summer school for international computer science and mathematics postgraduate students and other young researchers, held annually since 1970 in Marktoberdorf, near Munich in southern Germany. Students are accommodated in the boarding house of a local high school, Gymnasium Marktoberdorf. Proceedings are published when appropriate.\n\nThis is a summer school for theoretical computer science researchers, with some directors/co-directors who are ACM Turing Award winners (the nearest equivalent to the Nobel Prize in computer science).\n\nThe summer school is supported as an Advanced Study Institute of the NATO Science for Peace and Security Program. It is administered by the Faculty of Informatics at the Technical University of Munich.\n\nPast academic directors and co-directors include:\n"}
{"id": "43559580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43559580", "title": "Survey camp", "text": "Survey camp\n\nSurvey Camp is an army tradition that was discontinued in the later part of twentieth century but was reinstated in 2002 across the universities of the world with a whole new structure. It is the civil engineering training course for two weeks usually after completion four semesters of bachelor of technology that consists of 8 days working in the field and 6 days of map preparation in the computer lab. Experts say that survey camp provides necessary foundation for civil engineers. Each day in the course there are at least 8 hours of working in the field. Students are divided into groups and they get out with practising surveyors and use their equipment out in the field. A camp incharge teacher appoints group leaders for each group; the leaders are responsible for all the works of his particular group and the equipment. In the computer lab, students learn applications such as AutoCAD and Carlson Survey. The students use these programs to take data collected from the field to develop topographic maps of the particular area. The basic aim of the survey camp is to know various works carried out in the industrial field by surveying, which includes determining the topography of particular area with the help of survey work, map study and reconnaissance work. The methods used for surveying are traversing, levelling and contouring\n\nThe instruments used include:\n\nThe survey practicals generally performed in Survey camp are listed below:\n\nThe working rule used in survey camp is quite simple, all the groups of students are allotted different stations for survey work. For first couple of days, the students carry out traversing work to determine length of different sides of traverse and included angles between them. Coordinates of each side are also determined by formulas, Latitude= L×formula_1 and Departure= L×formula_2, where L is the length of the side and formula_3 is the angle which the side makes with North or South directions (the instruments used in traversing include Total Station or Theodolite with stand, Compass with stand, ranging rods and measuring tape). Then in next step RL (reduced level) of each station is determined with reference to permanent benchmark (the instruments used to determine reduced level include Auto Level with stand and Levelling Staff). Then RL of different points keeping specified spacing between them with reference to each station is determined. The points having same RL are joined to form contour lines and thus a topographic map of an area is prepared using AutoCAD or with the help of plane table survey.\n\nIn Survey camp, students obtain extensive hands-on experience in the use of land surveying instruments and in the essentials of survey practice. Measurements of distances and angles, calculation and correction of errors are introduced. Concepts of higher order surveys and satellite navigation are reviewed and illustrated. Thus students learn surveying practically, this gives them confidence to work (with good precision and accuracy) in Industrial fields in the future.\n"}
{"id": "24818668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24818668", "title": "Symphony of Science", "text": "Symphony of Science\n\nThe Symphony of Science is a music project created by Washington-based electronic musician John D. Boswell. The project seeks to \"spread scientific knowledge and philosophy through musical remixes.\" Boswell uses pitch-corrected audio and video samples from television programs featuring popular scientists and educators. The audio and video clips are mixed into digital mashups and scored with Boswell's original compositions. Two of Boswell's music videos, \"A Glorious Dawn\" and \"We are All Connected\", feature appearances from Carl Sagan, Richard Feynman, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Bill Nye, and Stephen Hawking. The audio and video is sampled from popular science television shows including \"\", \"The Universe\", \"The Eyes of Nye\", \"The Elegant Universe\", and \"Stephen Hawking's Universe\".\n\nUnruly Media, a video tracking service, first charted \"A Glorious Dawn\" on September 21, 2009. A month later, the video had received more than a million views and was ranked in the music category on YouTube as one of the top rated videos of all time. On November 9, 2009, Third Man Records released a 7-inch single of \"A Glorious Dawn\" for the 75th anniversary of the birth of Carl Sagan.\n\nComposer John Boswell had been experimenting with sampling and remixing for some time before creating his first YouTube videos. Boswell had worked with Auto-Tune in the past and thought people might be interested in hearing American astronomer Carl Sagan sing. He first saw \"Cosmos\" in 2004 and soon after bought the set of DVDs. Boswell looked through these episodes for \"profound quotes\" that lacked music in the background. Once he found these quotes, Boswell Auto-Tuned Sagan's voice and picked from the best ones. After completing what became \"A Glorious Dawn\", Boswell posted the video on YouTube in September 2009 and to his surprise, the video went viral within a week. To date, the video has received nearly ten million views and is ranked as one of the top rated videos of all time in the music category.\n\nJohn Boswell attended Gonzaga Preparatory School and graduated from college with a degree in economics. Soon after, Boswell started Colorpulse, an electronica music project, and began to focus on production. He released an album in 2010, titled \"Escaping the Tangle\", which included some of these productions. Boswell lives in Bellingham, Washington. His current music project, Symphony of Science, \"aims to spread scientific knowledge and philosophy through musical remixes\" and to \"deliver scientific knowledge and philosophy in musical form\". After his first few videos, Boswell began seeking permission to use the clips he uses in his project. In addition to Symphony of Science, Boswell is also working on a project called \"Remixes for the Soul\", which he works on, in addition to Symphony of Science, under the moniker of melodysheep.\n\nBoswell's first video in the Symphony of Science series is 3 minutes, 34 seconds long and features Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking. Samples include clips from \"\" (1980) and \"Stephen Hawking's Universe\" (1997). On September 21, 2009, Unruly Media, a viral video tracking service, began to chart the popularity of the video. At the end of the first week of October, the video had received 800,000 views and, by the end of the month, more than a million. By the end of 2010, the video had surpassed 5 million views.\n\nThe title takes its name from the chorus spoken by Carl Sagan, remixed from an episode of \"Cosmos\".\n\nThird Man Records released a 7-inch recording of \"A Glorious Dawn\" on November 9, 2009, in honor of the 75th anniversary of the birth of Carl Sagan. The one-sided single was created by United Record Pressing in a unique \"Cosmos Colored Vinyl\", limited pressing of 150 copies; it was then re-pressed on regular vinyl in a larger run. The flipside is etched with a copy of the diagram found on the Voyager Golden Record.\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\nThe second video in the series is 4 minutes, 12 seconds in length and features Carl Sagan, Richard Feynman, Neil deGrasse Tyson, and Bill Nye. It was released on October 19, 2009. Audio and video samples are taken from The History Channel's \"Universe\" series, Carl Sagan's \"Cosmos\", interviews with Richard Feynman in 1983, Neil deGrasse Tyson's cosmic sermon, and Bill Nye's \"The Eyes of Nye\" series. Additional visuals come from NOVA's \"The Elegant Universe\", \"Stephen Hawking's Universe\", and \"Cosmos\", among others. On January 23, 2010, the video was shown at the South Nassau Unitarian Universalist Church in Long Island NY, as part of a youth-directed service. The video has been used in other churches and classrooms.\n\nThe title comes from the chorus spoken by Neil deGrasse Tyson and remixed by Boswell:\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\nThe third video in the series is 4 minutes, 21 seconds in length and was released on November 23, 2009. \"Our Place in the Cosmos\" features Carl Sagan, Richard Dawkins, Michio Kaku, and Robert Jastrow. Samples were taken from \"Cosmos\", \"Genius of Charles Darwin\", a TED talk, \"Stephen Hawking's Universe\", interviews and visuals from \"Baraka\" and \"Koyaanisqatsi\", History Channel's Universe series, and \"Cosmic Voyage\".\n\nThe title comes from words spoken by Carl Sagan and remixed by Boswell:\n\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\nThe fourth video in the series is 4 minutes in length and was released on January 6, 2010. \"The Unbroken Thread\" is themed around biology and evolution rather than the cosmos, and features Carl Sagan, David Attenborough, and Jane Goodall.\n\nThe video uses clips from \"Cosmos\", several David Attenborough documentaries (\"Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life\", \"The Life of Mammals\", \"The Living Planet\", and \"BBC Life\"), \"XVIVO Scientific Animations\", \"IMAX Cosmic Voyage\", Jane Goodall's TED Talk, and a Guinness commercial.\n\nThe title comes from Sagan's \"Cosmos\", and features in the refrain:\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\nThe fifth installment uses clips from various prominent scientists and speakers - including Jacob Bronowski, Sagan, Feynman, Dawkins, Brian Greene, Stephen Hawking, PZ Myers, Lawrence Krauss, Michael Shermer, and deGrasse Tyson - to explain and promote science, its process, and its benefits. The video was released on February 25, 2010. It uses clips from many sources, including \"Cosmos\" and \"The Genius of Charles Darwin\".\nThe chorus in this piece is sung by Dawkins and Sagan:\n\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\nThe sixth installment is about the colonization of Mars. It features Sagan, Robert Zubrin, Brian Cox, and Penelope Boston, and it features clips from \"The Mars Underground\" (2007), \"Cosmos: A Personal Voyage\", and \"Wonders of the Solar System\". The video was released on June 3, 2010. The title of this song stems from Zubrin's book \"The Case For Mars\".\n\nThe chorus is sung by Sagan and Cox:\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\nThe seventh installment, released on November 23, 2010, is about reasoning and skepticism. It features Carl Sagan, Bertrand Russell, Sam Harris, Michael Shermer, Lawrence Krauss, Carolyn Porco, Richard Dawkins, Richard Feynman, Phil Plait, and James Randi. It is intended to promote scientific reasoning and skepticism in the face of growing amounts of pseudoscientific pursuits, such as Astrology and Homeopathy, and also to \"promote the scientific worldview as equally enlightening as religion.\" The chorus is sung by Dawkins, except for the last line which is Phil Plait's:\n\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\n\"The Big Beginning\" is the eighth installment in the Symphony of Science music video series, released on January 20, 2011. It deals with the origins of our universe, covering the Big Bang theory, expansion and cooling of the universe, formation of galaxies, the interplay between matter and anti-matter, and cosmic radiation. The music video features Stephen Hawking, Richard Dawkins, Carl Sagan, Tara Shears, and Neil deGrasse Tyson. Videos sampled for this installment include \"Into the Universe with Stephen Hawking\"; \"God, the Universe, and Everything Else\"; \"The Universe\" on The History Channel; NOVA scienceNOW; interviews with Richard Dawkins and Tara Shears; and Carl Sagan's \"Cosmos\". There is no clear chorus, but two quotes from Hawking and Dawkins come back several times:\n\n\"Ode to the Brain\" is the ninth episode in the Symphony of Science series about the brain including its evolution, folding, and neuron networks. It features Carl Sagan, Robert Winston, Vilayanur Ramachandran, Jill Bolte Taylor, Bill Nye and Oliver Sacks. It features clips from Carl Sagan's \"\", BBC's \"The Human Body\", Discovery Channel's \"\" and various TED Talks. It was released on March 23, 2011.\nThe chorus is sung by Taylor:\n\n\"Children of Africa\" is the tenth installment of the Symphony of Science series, released on July 6, 2011. It deals with the cultural evolution of humans from their origins in Africa, through the conquest of Europe from the Neanderthals to the space age. It features Alice Roberts, Jacob Bronowski, Carolyn Porco, Jane Goodall, Robert Sapolsky, Neil deGrasse Tyson and David Attenborough. Programs sampled for this installment include Jacob Bronowski's \"The Ascent of Man\", Alice Roberts' \"The Incredible Human Journey\", along with BBC documentaries \"Life of Mammals\", \"Walking With Cavemen\", and \"Human Planet\". The refrain is sung by Carolyn Porco:\n\n\"The Quantum World\" is the eleventh installment of the Symphony of Science series, released on September 6, 2011. It deals with the bizarre discoveries made in the field of quantum mechanics, through \"a musical investigation into the nature of atoms and subatomic particles.\" It features Morgan Freeman, Stephen Hawking, Michio Kaku, Brian Cox, Richard Feynman, and Frank Close. Programs sampled for this instalment include Richard Feynman's Fun to Imagine, Morgan Freeman's \"Through the Wormhole\", Brian Cox's TED Talk, along with BBC documentaries \"Visions of the Future\", \"What Time is it\", \"Wonders of the Universe\", and \"What Is Reality\". The refrain is sung by Cox:\nSome of the videos used for lyrics are:\n\n\"Onward to the Edge,\" \"a musical investigation into the importance and inspirational qualities of space exploration (human and robotic), as well as a look at some of the amazing worlds in our solar system,\" is the twelfth installment of the Symphony of Science series, released on November 9, 2011. It features Neil deGrasse Tyson, Brian Cox, and Carolyn Porco. Programs sampled for this installment include \"Wonders of the Solar System\", \"My Favorite Universe\", \"A Traveler's Guide to the Planets\", and Carolyn Porco's TED Talk. The refrain is sung by Tyson:\n\n\"The Greatest Show on Earth,\" the thirteenth installment of the Symphony of Science series, released on January 17, 2012, is a \"musical celebration of the wonders of biology, including evolution, natural selection, DNA, and more.\" It features David Attenborough, Bill Nye, and Richard Dawkins. Programs sampled include \"Life\", \"Planet Earth\", David Attenborough's \"First Life\", \"Charles Darwin and the Tree of Life\", \"Bill Nye the Science Guy\"'s episode on evolution, and Dawkins' \"There is grandeur in this view of life\" speech. The refrain is sung by Dawkins:\n\n\"The World of the Dinosaurs,\" released on March 20, 2012, is the fourteenth installment of the Symphony of Science series. It is a \"musical celebration of dinosaurs\" and investigates their habits, extinction, and how we learn about them. It features Alice Roberts, Bill Nye, Nigel Marven, Dallas Campbell and more. The refrain is sung by Roberts and Campbell:\n\n\"We are Star Dust,\" released in May 9, 2012, is the fifteenth installment of the series. It features Neil deGrasse Tyson, Richard Feynman, and Lawrence Krauss. The song explains the origins of the elements that make up our bodies, in stars and supernovae. The refrain is sung by Tyson.\n\nThe sixteenth installment, released September 12, 2012, is titled \"Our Biggest Challenge (Climate Change Music Video)\". It features Bill Nye, David Attenborough, Richard Alley and Isaac Asimov. The song speaks the stark realities of climate change, however the message is that if we can come together, we can overcome this challenge. The refrain is sung mostly by Richard Alley while the last three lines are sung by Isaac Asimov:\n\nOn February 26, 2013, Boswell released the seventeenth installment, \"The Secret of the Stars,\" which explores the beauty of Einstein's concept of relativity, its applications to time, speed, energy and mass, and its effects on the movement and light of stars. The music video features Michio Kaku, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Brian Greene, Lisa Randall, and Brian Cox. Michio Kaku performs the chorus with Brian Cox, who sings only the first and fourth lines:\n\n\"Note: in actual fact, the process of nuclear fusion in stars turns mass into energy rather than vice versa. This lights up the stars: the stars get lighter and produce energy.\"\n\nOn August 27, 2013, Boswell released the eighteenth installment, \"Monsters of the Cosmos\", which explains the black hole phenomenon and how they are both terrible and beautiful, destroying stars but creating galaxies. The music video features Morgan Freeman, Neil deGrasse Tyson, Michio Kaku, and Lawrence Krauss. Morgan Freeman performs the chorus with Lawrence Krauss:\n\nOn July 28, 2015 the nineteenth installment of Symphony of Science, titled \"Waves of Light,\" was released. The video explains the way that we are able to look at the history of the universe through the power of light. The music is sung by Brian Cox. Its chorus is\n\nOn October 24, 2015, the twentieth installment of Symphony of Science, titled \"Beyond the Horizon\", was released.\n\nIt was created in collaboration with the Planetary Society, and is sung by Bill Nye, Neil DeGrasse Tyson, Emily Lakdawalla, and Carl Sagan.\n\nNot strictly part of the Symphony of Science series as this was made for the BBC science show \"Bang Goes the Theory\", it nevertheless uses the same formula of pitch correction of spoken words over an original music track. It celebrates the tantalising questions that science throws up, as well as being an entertaining showreel for the show itself. In addition to the four presenters - Liz Bonnin, Dallas Campbell, Jem Stansfield, and Yan Wong - there are guest spots for Jim Al-Khalili and Tara Shears. The clips are all taken from the TV show or its website.\n\nThe chorus is sung by Yan Wong:\n\n\"Symphony of Bang Goes The Theory\" on YouTube.\n\nWhile not strictly part of the Symphony of Science series, Boswell uses the same formula of pitch correction of spoken words over an original music track. Made for the Public Broadcasting Service's PBS Digital Studios, various clips from present and past PBS programming are sampled to make these songs.\n\nSampled from various clips from Fred Rogers' program \"Mister Rogers' Neighborhood\", the title takes its name from the chorus spoken by Rogers:\n\n\"Mister Rogers Remixed: Garden of Your Mind\" on YouTube.\n\nSampled from various clips from Bob Ross' program \"The Joy of Painting\", the song contains three choruses spoken by Ross. The title takes its name from the second of these:\n\n\"Bob Ross Remixed: Happy Little Clouds\" on YouTube.\n\nSampled from various clips from Julia Child's various programs on PBS, including \"The French Chef\", \"\", and \"Baking with Julia\", the song contains two choruses spoken by Child. The title takes its name from the second of these:\n\n\"Julia Child Remixed: Keep On Cooking\" on YouTube.\n\nSampled from various clips from LeVar Burton's program \"Reading Rainbow\", the song contains three choruses spoken by Burton. The title takes its name from the first of these:\n\n\"Reading Rainbow Remixed: In Your Imagination\" on YouTube.\n\nMusician Carrie Brownstein found the idea behind Symphony of Science \"quite beautiful and amazing in both its sincerity and aims\". She also enjoyed the \"hip-hop stylings\" of the camera angle on Bill Nye while he is moving his hands around and expressing himself on \"We Are All Connected\". Writer Nick Sagan, son of Carl Sagan, was impressed with \"A Glorious Dawn\", giving it a favorable review and stamp of approval. Sagan writes, \"John Boswell over at Colorpulse Music is a mad genius, sampling both \"Cosmos\" and Stephen Hawking's \"Universe\" series into three minutes and thirty-four seconds of pure, concentrated awesomeness... Love it, love it, love it. Dad would have loved it, too.\"\n\nColumnist Franklin Harris argues that Boswell's videos show that science can arouse the minds of artists just as much as religion and mythology have in the past. Harris calls the videos \"art for the Information Age, inspired by science\".\n\nNew Music Transmission, a podcast who featured Symphony of Science in 2009, gave \"A Glorious Dawn\" positive reviews and called Symphony of Science as \"A thinking man's Pogo\", referring to the Australian electro artist who was featured 2 weeks before.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27110661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27110661", "title": "University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy", "text": "University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy\n\nThe University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy (), founded in the early 19th century within the Belgrade Higher School, is the oldest and most prominent institution of higher education in Serbia and among the oldest in the South-Eastern Europe. It employs 255 teaching staff and has approximately 6000 undergraduate and graduate students within ten departments: Department of Philosophy, Department of Classics, Department of History, Department of Art History, Department of Archaeology, Department of Ethnology and Anthropology, Department of Sociology, Department of Psychology, Department of Andragogy and Department of Pedagogy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58399954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58399954", "title": "Vivian Carter Mason", "text": "Vivian Carter Mason\n\nVivian Carter Mason (February 10, 1890-May 10, 1982) was a staunch advocate for gender and civil rights as well as an ardent supporter of universal education. She served as an influential president of the National Council of Negro Women (NCNW) from 1953-1957. She is well-known for founding the Women's Council for Interracial Cooperation in communities such as Norfolk and Arlington, Virginia in 1945. Mason also founded the Committee of 100 Women, which allowed for underprivileged children of color in New York City to attend summer camp for free.\n\nMason was one of eight children born to George Carter, a Methodist minister, and Florence William Carter, a music teacher, in Wilkes Barre, Pennsylvania. She was inspired at an early age by her mother's advocacy of women's rights and her father's moral and spiritual values.She noted in an interview in 1978 that she knew at a very early age that her family, \"did not have a large income,\" but that they \"were happy.\" \n\nMason moved to Auburn, New York during her childhood and attended public schools in the area before attending college at the University of Chicago in 1925 where she studied political economy and social welfare. She later took classes at New York University and Fordham University. \n\nWhile at the University of Chicago, she met her husband, William T. Mason of Trinidad, West Indies. Her husband was a successful real estate agent and businessman. They wed in Brooklyn and bore a son named William T. Mason Jr. in Norfolk, Virginia. In 1931, Mason moved with her son to New York City. \n\nMason's professional life began when she took the job as the program director of the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) in Brooklyn, New York. After leaving her position at YWCA, she accepted the position of administrator of the city's Department of Welfare . Mason was the first black woman to ever hold this position. She remained a national board member at the YWCA. Mason founded the National Committee of 100 women which serves as a free summer camp for underprivileged children.\n\nOn April 17, 1945, Mason jumpstarted the Women's Council for Interracial Cooperation (WCIC). This group represented females from all different racial backgrounds and ethnicities. In 1945, Mason was chosen to represent the National Council of Negro Women (NCNW) at the first meeting of the International Women's Democratic Federation in Paris, France. She served on the board of the federation and served as vice president for the American affiliate.\n\nAfter moving to Norfolk, Virginia In the mid 1940s she was nominated president of the Norfolk Council of Negro Women (NCNW). She served for 4 years before being elected to the position of president of the National NCNW in 195. She served until 1957. In 1968, Mason was the only black woman on Virginia's Democratic Central Committee. In 1971, she was appointed as the first black woman on the board of the Norfolk city school district and was named \"Newsmaker of 1971\" by the Virginia Pres. By 1978, she founded the local chapter of the National Urban League.\n\nMason is remembered as a leader of the feminist movement, civil rights movement, and labor movement during the 20th century. She changed the NCNW by creating more structure and order in order to successfully generate change. Throughout her life, she served on many boards concentrated in New York and Norfolk, Virginia. She was determined in changing her community to promote unity amongst people of all genders and races. She broke history by becoming the first black woman leader of more than one organization. \n\nVivian Mason Carter died May 10, 1982 in Norfolk, Virginia. \n"}
{"id": "36922076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36922076", "title": "École nationale des sciences appliquées d'Agadir", "text": "École nationale des sciences appliquées d'Agadir\n\nThe École nationale des sciences appliquées d'Agadir is a public engineering school of the Ibn Zuhr University in Agadir Morocco. Its mission is to train state engineers of multidisciplinary nature.\n\nLocated in Agadir, it is part of the network of ENSA\n\nFour engineering courses are offered\n\n"}
