{"id": "49693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49693", "title": "Antenna gain", "text": "Antenna gain\n\nIn electromagnetics, an antenna's power gain or simply gain is a key performance number which combines the antenna's directivity and electrical efficiency. In a transmitting antenna, the gain describes how well the antenna converts input power into radio waves headed in a specified direction. In a receiving antenna, the gain describes how well the antenna converts radio waves arriving from a specified direction into electrical power. When no direction is specified, \"gain\" is understood to refer to the peak value of the gain, the gain in the direction of the antenna's main lobe. A plot of the gain as a function of direction is called the radiation pattern.\n\nAntenna gain is usually defined as the ratio of the power produced by the antenna from a far-field source on the antenna's beam axis to the power produced by a hypothetical lossless \"isotropic antenna\", which is equally sensitive to signals from all directions. Usually this ratio is expressed in decibels, and these units are referred to as \"decibels-isotropic\" (dBi). An alternative definition compares the received power to the power received by a lossless half-wave dipole antenna, in which case the units are written as \"dBd\". Since a lossless dipole antenna has a gain of 2.15 dBi, the relation between these units is formula_1 For a given frequency, the antenna's effective area is proportional to the power gain. An antenna's effective length is proportional to the \"square root\" of the antenna's gain for a particular frequency and radiation resistance. Due to reciprocity, the gain of any reciprocal antenna when receiving is equal to its gain when transmitting.\n\nDirective gain or directivity is a different measure which does \"not\" take an antenna's electrical efficiency into account. This term is sometimes more relevant in the case of a receiving antenna where one is concerned mainly with the ability of an antenna to receive signals from one direction while rejecting interfering signals coming from a different direction.\n\nPower gain (or simply gain) is a unitless measure that combines an antenna's efficiency \"E\" and directivity \"D\":\n\nThe notions of efficiency and directivity depend on the following.\n\nA transmitting antenna accepts input power formula_3 at some point along the feedline. The point is typically taken to be at the antenna (the \"feedpoint\"), thereby not counting power lost due to joule heating in the feedline and reflections back down the feedline. The efficiency formula_4 of an antenna is the total radiated power formula_5 divided by the input power at the feedpoint\nThe electromagnetic reciprocity theorem guarantees that the electrical properties of an antenna, such as efficiency, directivity, and gain, are the same when the antenna is used for receiving as when it is transmitting.\n\nAntennas are invariably directional to a greater or lesser extent, according to how the output power is distributed in any given direction in three dimensions. We shall specify direction here in spherical coordinates formula_7, where formula_8 is the altitude or angle above a specified reference plane (such as the ground), while formula_9 is the azimuth as the angle between the projection of the given direction onto the reference plane and a specified reference direction (such as north or east) in that plane with specified sign (either clockwise or counterclockwise).\n\nThe distribution of output power as a function of the possible directions formula_7 is given by its radiation intensity formula_11 (in SI units: watts per steradian, W⋅sr). The output power is obtained from the radiation intensity by integrating the latter over all solid angles formula_12:\n\nThe mean radiation intensity formula_14 is therefore given by\n\nThe directive gain or directivity formula_18 of an antenna in a given direction is the ratio of its radiation intensity formula_11 in that direction to its mean radiation intensity formula_14. That is,\n\nAn isotropic antenna, meaning one with the same radiation intensity in all directions, therefore has directivity 1 in all directions independently of its efficiency. More generally the maximum, minimum, and mean directivities of any antenna are always at least 1, at most 1, and exactly 1. For the half-wave dipole the respective values are 1.64 (2.15 dB), 0, and 1.\n\nWhen the directivity formula_22 of an antenna is given independently of direction it refers to its maximum directivity in any direction, namely\n\nThe power gain or simply gain formula_24 of an antenna in a given direction takes efficiency into account by being defined as the ratio of its radiation intensity formula_11 in that direction to the mean radiation intensity of a perfectly efficient antenna. Since the latter equals formula_26, it is therefore given by\n\nAs with directivity, when the gain formula_32 of an antenna is given independently of direction it refers to its maximum gain in any direction. Since the only difference between gain and directivity in any direction is a constant factor of formula_4 independent of formula_8 and formula_9, we obtain the fundamental formula of this section:\n\nIf only a certain portion of the electrical power received from the transmitter is actually radiated by the antenna (i.e. less than 100% efficiency), then the directive gain compares the power radiated in a given direction to that reduced power (instead of the total power received), ignoring the inefficiency. The directivity is therefore the maximum directive gain when taken over all directions, and is always \"at least\" 1. On the other hand, the power gain takes into account the poorer efficiency by comparing the radiated power in a given direction to the actual power that the antenna receives from the transmitter, which makes it a more useful figure of merit for the antenna's contribution to the ability of a transmitter in sending a radio wave toward a receiver. In every direction, the power gain of an isotropic antenna is equal to the efficiency, and hence is always \"at most\" 1, though it can and ideally should exceed 1 for a directional antenna.\n\nNote that in the case of an impedance mismatch, \"P\" would be computed as the transmission line's incident power minus reflected power. Or equivalently, in terms of the rms voltage \"V\" at the antenna terminals:\n\nwhere \"Z\" is the feedpoint impedance.\n\nPublished numbers for antenna gain are almost always expressed in decibels (dB), a logarithmic scale. From the gain factor G, one finds the gain in decibels as:\n\nTherefore, an antenna with a peak power gain of 5 would be said to have a gain of 7 dBi. \"dBi\" is used rather than just \"dB\" to emphasize that this is the gain according to the basic definition, in which the antenna is compared to an isotropic radiator.\n\nWhen actual measurements of an antenna's gain are made by a laboratory, the field strength of the test antenna is measured when supplied with, say, 1 watt of transmitter power, at a certain distance. That field strength is compared to the field strength found using a so-called \"reference antenna\" at the same distance receiving the same power in order to determine the gain of the antenna under test. That ratio would be equal to G if the reference antenna were an isotropic radiator(irad).\n\nHowever a true isotropic radiator cannot be built, so in practice a different antenna is used. This will often be a half-wave dipole, a very well understood and repeatable antenna that can be easily built for any frequency. The directive gain of a half-wave dipole is known to be 1.64 and it can be made nearly 100% efficient. Since the gain has been measured with respect to this reference antenna, the difference in the gain of the test antenna is often compared to that of the dipole. The \"gain relative to a dipole\" is thus often quoted and is denoted using \"dBd\" instead of \"dBi\" to avoid confusion. Therefore, in terms of the true gain (relative to an isotropic radiator) G, this figure for the gain is given by:\n\nFor instance, the above antenna with a gain G=5 would have a gain with respect to a dipole of 5/1.64 = 3.05, or in decibels one would call this 10 log(3.05) = 4.84 dBd. In general:\nBoth dBi and dBd are in common use. When an antenna's maximum gain is specified in decibels (for instance, by a manufacturer) one must be certain as to whether this means the gain relative to an isotropic radiator or with respect to a dipole. If it specifies \"dBi\" or \"dBd\" then there is no ambiguity, but if only \"dB\" is specified then the fine print must be consulted. Either figure can be easily converted into the other using the above relationship.\n\nNote that when considering an antenna's directional pattern, \"gain with respect to a dipole\" does \"not\" imply a comparison of that antenna's gain in each direction to a dipole's gain in that direction. Rather, it is a comparison between the antenna's gain in each direction to the \"peak\" gain of the dipole (1.64). In any direction, therefore, such numbers are 2.15 dB smaller than the gain expressed in dBi.\n\nPartial gain is calculated as power gain, but for a particular polarization. It is defined as the part of the radiation intensity formula_41 corresponding to a given polarization, divided by the total radiation intensity of an isotropic antenna.\n\nwhere formula_44 and formula_45 represent the radiation intensity in a given direction contained in their respective E field component.\n\nAs a result of this definition, we can conclude that the total gain of an antenna is the sum of partial gains for any two orthogonal polarizations.\n\nSuppose a lossless antenna has a radiation pattern given by:\n\nLet us find the gain of such an antenna.\n\nSolution:\n\nFirst we find the peak radiation intensity of this antenna:\n\nThe total radiated power can be found by integrating over all directions:\n\nSince the antenna is specified as being lossless the radiation efficiency is 1. The maximum gain is then equal to:\n\nExpressed relative to the gain of a half-wave dipole we would find:\n\nAccording to IEEE Standard 145-1993, Realized Gain differs from the above definitions of gain in that it is \"reduced by the losses due to the mismatch of the antenna input impedance to a specified impedance.\" This mismatch induces losses above the dissipative losses described above; therefore, Realized Gain will always be less than Gain.\n\nGain may be expressed as absolute gain if further clarification is required to differentiate it from Realized Gain.\n\nTotal radiated power is the sum of all RF power radiated by the antenna when the source power is included in the measurement. TRP is expressed in Watts, or equivalent logarithmic expressions, often dBm or dBW.\n\nTRP can be measured while in the close proximity of power-absorbing losses such as the body and hand of the Mobile Device Under Test User.\n\nThe TRP can be used to determine Body Loss (BoL). The Body Loss is considered as the ratio of TRP measured in the presence of losses and TRP measured while in free space.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29797960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29797960", "title": "Asilomar International Conference on Climate Intervention Technologies", "text": "Asilomar International Conference on Climate Intervention Technologies\n\nThe Asilomar International Conference on Climate Intervention Technologies was a conference developed by Margaret Leinen of the Climate Response Fund and chaired by Michael MacCracken of the Climate Institute. The conference took place in March 2010 and the recommendations were published in November 2010. The goal was identify and minimize risks involved with climate engineering (geoengineering), and was based on the 1975 Asilomar Conference on Recombinant DNA which discussed the potential biohazards and regulation of biotechnology. A group of over 150 scientist and engineers gathered together with lawyers, environmentalists and disaster relief workers in an open meeting to avoid accusations of conspiracy during this discussion. The Asilomar Conference focused exclusively on the development of risk reduction guidelines for climate intervention experiments.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16936498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16936498", "title": "Bite the bullet", "text": "Bite the bullet\n\nTo \"bite the bullet\" is to endure a painful or otherwise unpleasant situation that is seen as unavoidable. The phrase was first recorded by Rudyard Kipling in his 1891 novel \"The Light that Failed\".\n\nIt was suggested by the movie \"Bite the Bullet\" that biting the bullet meant using a shell casing to cover an aching tooth, especially one that had been broken, and where a nerve is exposed. In the film, the slug was removed from the bullet, the cap was hit to expend that charge, and the casing was cut down to allow it to sit level with the other teeth.\n\nIt is often stated that it is derived historically from the practice of having a patient clench a bullet in his or her teeth as a way to cope with the extreme pain of a surgical procedure without anesthetic, though evidence for biting a bullet rather than a leather strap during surgery is sparse. It has been speculated to have evolved from the British empire expression \"to bite the cartridge\", which dates to the Indian Rebellion of 1857, but the phrase \"chew a bullet\", with a similar meaning, dates to at least 1796.\n\nA more specific meaning of the phrase is to accept unpleasant consequences of one's assumed beliefs. Sound reasoning requires its practitioner to always sustain a consistent set of beliefs. This may involve accepting a disturbing belief that is a consequence of one's currently held beliefs. It may be disturbing because it is counterintuitive or has other disturbing consequences. Given a philosopher's currently held beliefs that he or she is not prepared to give up, he or she may have to \"bite the bullet\" by accepting a particular claim offered as an extreme case or putative counterexample.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1040971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1040971", "title": "Brady disclosure", "text": "Brady disclosure\n\n\"Brady\" disclosure consists of exculpatory or impeaching information and evidence that is material to the guilt or innocence or to the punishment of a defendant. The term comes from the U.S. Supreme Court case \"Brady v. Maryland\", in which the Supreme Court ruled that suppression by the prosecution of evidence favorable to a defendant who has requested it violates due process. \n\nFollowing \"Brady\", the prosecutor must disclose evidence or information that would prove the innocence of the defendant or would enable the defense to more effectively impeach the credibility of government witnesses. Evidence that would serve to reduce the defendant's sentence must also be disclosed by the prosecution. In practice this doctrine has often proved difficult to enforce. Some states have established their own laws to try to strengthen enforcement against prosecutorial misconduct in this area.\n\nThe \"Brady\" doctrine is a pretrial discovery rule that was established by the United States Supreme Court in \"Brady v. Maryland\" (1963). The rule requires that the prosecution must turn over all exculpatory evidence to the defendant in a criminal case. Exculpatory evidence is evidence that might exonerate the defendant.\n\nExamples include the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39094330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39094330", "title": "Bryan Law", "text": "Bryan Law\n\nBryan Joseph Law (1954–2013) was an Australian peace activist who became well-known after breaking into Pine Gap in 2005 as a passive protest against the Iraq War, and again for breaking into a military base at Rockhampton in 2011 and hammering a hole in a military helicopter prevent it from operating. Law and his wife Margaret Pestorius coordinated the Cairns Peace by Peace organisation. Law also disrupted logging activities on the World Heritage site Fraser Island.\n\nLaw was born in 1954 in the Brisbane suburb of Moorooka. Both his parents served in the army during World War II, His father in New Guinea and his mother in Townsville. Law attended Yeronga State High School, excelling in the sciences. He attended the University of Queensland, studying chemistry briefly before dropping out. He then worked briefly for the Education Department as a clerk. He subsequently drove taxis for 15 years in Cairns. In his thirties Law returned to Griffith University to study history and politics with a special interest in Asia and Pacific history and regional militarism. He was a campus activist and became President of the Student Union.\n\nLaw was radicalised during the government of Joh Bjelke Petersen and was first arrested at a large right to march street demonstration in Brisbane. He was arrested more than 30 times. Law blogged widely. He had ambitions to become a lawyer but felt he came from the wrong class at the wrong time. He revelled in the intellectual stimulation offered by the court room process. He was acknowledged by judges, barristers and adversaries as an honourable challenger. Ciaron O’Reilly wrote:\n\nOf the thousands arrested and bashed during that period, some of us remained \"beat up but upbeat\" turning towards, exploring and sustaining nonviolent resistance against war and war preparations. As some turned towards the U.S. traditions of the Catholic Worker and Berrigans, Law turned to a deep exploration of Gandhi.\n\nIn his later years the Catholic Worker tradition also influenced Law’s approach to nonviolence.\n\nBetween 1982 and the mid-2000s, Law worked on a range of campaigns and was judged by colleagues as the \"foremost nonviolence strategist in Australia.\" He applied nonviolence theory and techniques to local, regional and national projects. Campaigns he was involved with included Aboriginal rights, which he initially explored in relation to the Brisbane Commonwealth Games in 1982. He lived on Fraser Island during the blockade to interrupt logging. He was involved in local issues such as improving bicycle facilities, the Cairns Yacht Club and most recently the \"Save City Place\" campaign in Cairns.\n\nHe had a keen interest in opposing militarism and this became his primary passion. As an antimilitarist activist he first opposed visits of US and UK warships to Australia during the Bicentennial. It was during this time he started to explore the power of small group nonviolence. He teamed up with fellow nonviolent activist Margaret Pestorius and they followed their shared passion of educating ordinary people about the practice of nonviolence. With the Cairns Peace by Peace group they began citizens' inspections of visiting US warships at a time when Law considered Australia was in a state of perpetual war. In 2005 he entered Pine Gap spy base near Alice Springs with three other people from Christians Against All Terrorism. This action was a turning point in Law's pursuit of more powerful types of activity and ultimately led to his His work culminated fittingly in the regional Queensland town of Rockhampton at a time when most looked toward Canberra and Washington for political change. decision to conduct a ploughshare type action in Rockhampton during the 2011 Talisman Sabre Exercises. \n\nDuring the court case in Alice Springs in 2007 he probably had his first heart attack and his health declined consistently from that point. He struggled with diabetes and heart disease and their consequences.\n\nLaw and Margaret Pestorius had a son, Joseph.\n"}
{"id": "373677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=373677", "title": "Cleanliness", "text": "Cleanliness\n\nCleanliness is both the abstract state of being clean and free from germs and dirt, and the habit of achieving and maintaining that state. Cleanliness is often achieved through cleaning.\nCleanliness is a good quality, as indicated by the aphorism: \"cleanliness is next to godliness\", and may be regarded as contributing to other ideals such as 'health' and 'beauty'.\n\nIn emphasizing an ongoing procedure or set of habits for the purpose of maintenance and prevention, the concept of cleanliness differs from purity, which is a physical, moral, or ritual state of freedom from pollutants. Whereas purity is usually a quality of an individual or substance, cleanliness has a social dimension, or implies a system of interactions. \"Cleanliness,\" observed Jacob Burckhardt, \"is indispensable to our modern notion of social perfection.\" A household or workplace may be said to exhibit cleanliness, but not ordinarily purity; cleanliness also would be a characteristic of the people who maintain cleanness or prevent dirtying.\n\nOn a practical level, cleanliness is thus related to hygiene and disease prevention. Washing is one way of achieving physical cleanliness, usually with water and often some kind of soap or detergent. Cleaning procedures are of the utmost importance in many forms of manufacturing.\n\nAs an assertion of Moral superiority or respectability, cleanliness has played a role in establishing cultural values in relation to social class, humanitarianism, and cultural imperialism.\n\nCleanliness is linked with proper hygiene. A person who is said to be clean usually depicts cleanliness.\n\nThe Bible has many rituals of purification relating to menstruation, childbirth, sexual relations, skin disease, death, and animal sacrifices. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church prescribes several kinds of hand washing for example after leaving the latrine, lavatory or bathhouse, or before prayer, or after eating a meal. The women in the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church are prohibited from entering the church temple during menses; and the men do not enter a church the day after they have had intercourse with their wives.\n\nChristianity has always placed a strong emphasis on hygiene, Despite the denunciation of the mixed bathing style of Roman pools by early Christian clergy, as well as the pagan custom of women naked bathing in front of men, this did not stop the Church from urging its followers to go to public baths for bathing, which contributed to hygiene and good health according to the Church Father, Clement of Alexandria. The Church also built public bathing facilities that were separate for both sexes near monasteries and pilgrimage sites; also, the popes situated baths within church basilicas and monasteries since the early Middle Ages. Pope Gregory the Great urged his followers on value of bathing as a bodily need.\n\nIn Hinduism, cleanliness is an important virtue and the \"Bhagavad Gita\" describes it as one of the divine qualities which one must practice. The Sanskrit word for cleanliness is 'Śaucam'. The \"Bhagavad Gita\" repeats this word in five slokas at 13.8, 16.3, 16.7, 17.14 and 18.42. \"Śrīmad Bhāgavatam\" mentioned 'Śaucam' at 1.16.26, 1.17.24 (as one of the four legs of Satya Yuga or Golden Age), 1.17.42, 3.28.4 (as spiritual practice), 3.31.33 (those who are addicted to sex life will not understand cleanliness), 4.29.84 (purity of Atman), 7.11.8-12 (one of the thirty qualities to be acquired), 7.11.21 (cleanliness as a characteristic of a Brahmin), 7.11.24 (cleanliness is a quality of the best worker), 11.3.24 (one should learn cleanliness to serve his or her Guru), 11.17.16 (cleanliness is a natural quality of a Brahmin), 11.18.36 (cleanliness as a virtue among those who has realised God), 11.18.43 (quality to be practiced by a householder), 11.21.14 (means of cleansing one body and mind), 11.19.36-39 (cleanliness means detachment from desire-prompted actions) 12.2.1 (effects of Kali Yuga on cleanliness). \n\n\"Srimad Bhagavatam\" also recognises cleanliness as one of the thirty qualities which one must acquire to obtain the grace of God and identifies internal and external cleanliness among the twelve regular duties. Cleanliness is also an exalted quality which characterises the Satya Yuga (Golden Age) in Hinduism. As stated by many Hindu scriptures that cleanliness is a way of relative to God.\n\nCleanliness or Śaucam is both internal and external. Hinduism extols not only external cleanliness but also internal cleanliness or purity. Since their minds are constantly absorbed in the all-pure Lord, devotees become internally cleansed from the defects of lust, anger, greed, envy, ego, etc. In this state of mind, they naturally prefer to keep the external body and environment pure as well. Thus, in accordance with the old saying, “Cleanliness is next to Godliness,” they are also externally pure. \n\nCleanliness is also a virtue which has to be cultivated by Vedic students and spiritual aspirants.\n\n\"Srimad Bhagavatam\" also explains the internal and external cleanliness as \"My dear Uddhava, general cleanliness, washing the hands, bathing, performing religious services at sunrise, noon and sunset, worshiping Me, visiting holy places, chanting japa, avoiding that which is untouchable, uneatable or not to be discussed, and remembering My existence within all living entities as the Paramatman — these principles should be followed by all members of society through regulation of the mind, words and body.\" \n\nAll Hindus must make a visit to the seven sacred rivers. Bathing in these rivers will purify the mind and increase their good merits. Therefore, to invoke the presence of the holy rivers, the following Mantra is chanted before daily bath: \n\"AUM gaṇge ca yamune caiva godāvarī sarasvatī | narmade siṇdhu kāverī jalesmin saṃnidhim kuru\"\nIn this water, I invoke the presence of holy waters from the rivers Ganga, Yamuna, Godavari, Sarasvati, Narmada, Sindhu and Kaveri.\n\nAll Hindus must have taken a bath before entering temples in order to seek blessings. They also wash their feet before entering the temple. In some Orthodox Hindu households, taking a bath after visiting a funeral is required as some hindus believe that it is an inauspicious thing to witness and the in-auspiciousness would follow. This is also related to the pollution of the River Ganges.\n\nHindus also clean their homes particularly well in preparing to celebrate Diwali each year as they believe that it brings good luck. Most Hindus also believe that keeping your house clean and great devotion are gestures to welcome the Goddess Lakshmi to their abode to stay. Some orthodox Hindus refrain from cleaning their houses on a Friday as it is a day dedicated to Goddess Lakshmi and cleaning homes on that day is considered inauspicious, so they are allowed to clean their homes on the rest of the days. Tamil people also keep their homes clean in preparation for Diwali, Pongal or Bhol.\n\nHinduism also gives a deeper meaning to cleanliness. In \"Srimad Bhagavatam\" 11.19.36-39, cleanliness is also defined as detachment from activities prompted by desire. Cleanliness therefore means to give up material attachment, not merely to frequently rinse one's skin with water.\n\nThere are many verses in the Quran which discuss cleanliness. For example, “…Truly, Allah loves those who turn to Him constantly and He 'loves those who keep themselves pure and clean” (2:222). And, “…In mosque there are men who love to be clean and pure. Allah loves those who make themselves clean and pure” (9:108).\n\nFirst lessons in Islamic manuals of catechism are matters of cleanliness. Subjects taught first in the book of cleanliness include: which are clean, what is clean and what is not clean, what people need to be cleansed from, how they should clean, and which water should they use to clean. Muslims are required to perform ablution (\"wudu\") before every prayer, and are recommended to stay in the state of ablution at all times. A ritual bath (\"ghusl\") is performed on Fridays before the Friday Prayer (\"Juma\"). Ritual baths are recommended for spiritual purity, also after committing a sin, and are necessary for those who have washed a funeral. Special attention is given to cleaning homes before the arrival of guests or before feasts (Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha), and holy days and nights.\n\nSince the germ theory of disease, cleanliness has come to mean an effort to remove germs and other hazardous materials. A reaction to an excessive desire for a germ-free environment began to occur around 1989, when David Strachan put forth the \"hygiene hypothesis\" in the \"British Medical Journal.\" In essence, this hypothesis holds that environmental microbes play a useful role in developing the immune system; the fewer germs people are exposed to in early childhood, the more likely they are to experience health problems in childhood and as adults. The valuation of cleanliness, therefore, has a social and cultural dimension beyond the requirements of hygiene for practical purposes.\n\nIn industry, certain processes such as those related to integrated circuit manufacturing, require conditions of exceptional cleanliness which are achieved by working in cleanrooms. Cleanliness is essential to successful electroplating, since molecular layers of oil can prevent adhesion of the coating. The industry has developed specialized techniques for parts cleaning, as well as tests for cleanliness. The most commonly used tests rely on the wetting behaviour of a clean hydrophilic metal surface. Cleanliness is also important to vacuum systems to reduce outgassing. Cleanliness is also crucial for semiconductor manufacturing.\n\n"}
{"id": "53867278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53867278", "title": "Coloration evidence for natural selection", "text": "Coloration evidence for natural selection\n\nAnimal coloration provided important early evidence for evolution by natural selection, at a time when little direct evidence was available. Three major functions of coloration were discovered in the second half of the 19th century, and subsequently used as evidence of selection: camouflage (protective coloration); mimicry, both Batesian and Müllerian; and aposematism.\n\nCharles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\" was published in 1859, arguing from circumstantial evidence that selection by human breeders could produce change, and that since there was clearly a struggle for existence, that natural selection must be taking place. But he lacked an explanation either for genetic variation or for heredity, both essential to the theory. Many alternative theories were accordingly considered by biologists, threatening to undermine Darwinian evolution.\n\nSome of the first evidence was provided by Darwin's contemporaries, the naturalists Henry Walter Bates and Fritz Müller. They described forms of mimicry that now carry their names, based on their observations of tropical butterflies. These highly specific patterns of coloration are readily explained by natural selection, since predators such as birds which hunt by sight will more often catch and kill insects that are less good mimics of distasteful models than those that are better mimics; but the patterns are otherwise hard to explain. \nDarwinists such as Alfred Russel Wallace and Edward Bagnall Poulton, and in the 20th century Hugh Cott and Bernard Kettlewell, sought evidence that natural selection was taking place. Wallace noted that snow camouflage, especially plumage and pelage that changed with the seasons, suggested an obvious explanation as an adaptation for concealment. Poulton's 1890 book, \"The Colours of Animals\", written during Darwinism's lowest ebb, used all the forms of coloration to argue the case for natural selection. Cott described many kinds of camouflage, and in particular his drawings of coincident disruptive coloration in frogs convinced other biologists that these deceptive markings were products of natural selection. Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution, showing that the species had adapted as pollution changed the environment; this provided compelling evidence of Darwinian evolution.\n\nCharles Darwin published \"On the Origin of Species\" in 1859, arguing that evolution in nature must be driven by natural selection, just as breeds of domestic animals and cultivars of crop plants were driven by artificial selection.\nDarwin's theory radically altered popular and scientific opinion about the development of life. However, he lacked evidence and explanations for some critical components of the evolutionary process. He could not explain the source of variation in traits within a species, and did not have a mechanism of heredity that could pass traits faithfully from one generation to the next. This made his theory vulnerable; alternative theories were being explored during the eclipse of Darwinism; and so Darwinian field naturalists like Wallace, Bates and Müller looked for clear evidence that natural selection actually occurred. Animal coloration, readily observable, soon provided strong and independent lines of evidence, from camouflage, mimicry and aposematism, that natural selection was indeed at work. The historian of science Peter J. Bowler wrote that Darwin's theory\n\nIn his 1889 book \"Darwinism\", the naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace considered the white coloration of Arctic animals. He recorded that the Arctic fox, Arctic hare, ermine and ptarmigan change their colour seasonally, and gave \"the obvious explanation\", that it was for concealment. The modern ornithologist W. L. N. Tickell, reviewing proposed explanations of white plumage in birds, writes that in the ptarmigan \"it is difficult to escape the conclusion that cryptic brown summer plumage becomes a liability in snow, and white plumage is therefore another cryptic adaptation.\" All the same, he notes, \"in spite of winter plumage, many Ptarmigan in NE Iceland are killed by Gyrfalcons throughout the winter.\"\n\nMore recently, decreasing snow cover in Poland, caused by global warming, is reflected in a reduced percentage of white-coated weasels that become white in winter. Days with snow cover halved between 1997 and 2007, and as few as 20 percent of the weasels had white winter coats. This was shown to be a result of natural selection by predators making use of camouflage mismatch.\n\nIn the words of camouflage researchers Innes Cuthill and A. Székely, the English zoologist and camouflage expert Hugh Cott's 1940 book \"Adaptive Coloration in Animals\" provided \"persuasive arguments for the survival value of coloration, and for adaptation in general, at a time when natural selection was far from universally accepted within evolutionary biology.\" In particular, they argue, \"Coincident Disruptive Coloration\" (one of Cott's categories) \"made Cott's drawings the most compelling evidence for natural selection enhancing survival through disruptive camouflage.\" Cott explained, while discussing \"a little frog known as \"Megalixalus fornasinii\"\" in his chapter on coincident disruptive coloration, that \"it is only when the pattern is considered in relation to the frog's normal attitude of rest that its remarkable nature becomes apparent... The attitude and very striking colour-scheme thus combine to produce an extraordinary effect, whose deceptive appearance depends upon the breaking up of the entire form into two strongly contrasted areas of brown and white. Considered separately, neither part resembles part of a frog. Together in nature the white configuration alone is conspicuous. This stands out and distracts the observer's attention from the true form and contour of the body and appendages on which it is superimposed\". Cott concluded that the effect was concealment \"so long as the false configuration is recognized in preference to the real one\". Such patterns embody, as Cott stressed, considerable precision as the markings must line up accurately for the disguise to work. Cott's description and in particular his drawings convinced biologists that the markings, and hence the camouflage, must have survival value (rather than occurring by chance); and further, as Cuthill and Székely indicate, that the bodies of animals that have such patterns must indeed have been shaped by natural selection.\n\nBetween 1953 and 1956, the geneticist Bernard Kettlewell experimented on peppered moth evolution. He presented results showing that in a polluted urban wood with dark tree trunks, dark moths survived better than pale ones, causing industrial melanism, whereas in a clean rural wood with paler trunks, pale moths survived better than dark ones. The implication was that survival was caused by camouflage against suitable backgrounds, where predators hunting by sight (insect-eating birds, such as the great tits used in the experiment) selectively caught and killed the less well-camouflaged moths. The results were intensely controversial, and from 2001 Michael Majerus carefully repeated the experiment. The results were published posthumously in 2012, vindicating Kettlewell's work as \"the most direct evidence\", and \"one of the clearest and most easily understood examples of Darwinian evolution in action\".\n\nBatesian mimicry, named for the 19th century naturalist Henry Walter Bates who first noted the effect in 1861, \"provides numerous excellent examples of natural selection\" at work. The evolutionary entomologist James Mallet noted that mimicry was \"arguably the oldest Darwinian theory not attributable to Darwin.\" Inspired by \"On the Origin of Species\", Bates realized that unrelated Amazonian butterflies resembled each other when they lived in the same areas, but had different coloration in different locations in the Amazon, something that could only have been caused by adaptation.\n\nMüllerian mimicry, too, in which two or more distasteful species that share one or more predators have come to mimic each other's warning signals, was clearly adaptive; Fritz Müller described the effect in 1879, in an account notable for being the first use of a mathematical argument in evolutionary ecology to show how powerful the effect of natural selection would be.\n\nIn 1867, in a letter to Darwin, Wallace described warning coloration. The evolutionary zoologist James Mallet notes that this discovery \"rather illogically\" followed rather than preceded the accounts of Batesian and Müllerian mimicry, which both rely on the existence and effectiveness of warning coloration. The conspicuous colours and patterns of animals with strong defences such as toxins are advertised to predators, signalling honestly that the animal is not worth attacking. This directly increases the reproductive fitness of the potential prey, providing a strong selective advantage. The existence of unequivocal warning coloration is therefore clear evidence of natural selection at work.\n\nEdward Bagnall Poulton's 1890 book, \"The Colours of Animals\", renamed Wallace's concept of warning colours \"aposematic\" coloration, as well as supporting Darwin's then unpopular theories of natural selection and sexual selection. Poulton's explanations of coloration are emphatically Darwinian. For example, on aposematic colouration he wrote that\n\nPoulton summed up his allegiance to Darwinism as an explanation of Batesian mimicry in one sentence: \"Every step in the gradually increasing change of the mimicking in the direction of specially protected form, would have been an advantage in the struggle for existence\".\n\nThe historian of science Peter J. Bowler commented that Poulton used his book to complain about experimentalists' lack of attention to what field naturalists (like Wallace, Bates, and Poulton) could readily see were adaptive features. Bowler added that \"The fact that the adaptive significance of coloration \"was\" (sic) widely challenged indicates just how far anti-Darwinian feeling had developed. Only field naturalists such as Poulton refused to give in, convinced that their observations showed the validity of selection, whatever the theoretical problems.\"\n"}
{"id": "9460850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9460850", "title": "Conservation and restoration of new media art", "text": "Conservation and restoration of new media art\n\nThe conservation and restoration of new media art is the study and practice of techniques for sustaining new media art created using from materials such as digital, biological, performative, and other variable media.\n\nArtists' increased use of multi-media, digital, and internet media since the 1960s has called into question the conventional strategies by which society preserves, cares for, and redisplays cultural artifacts created with or on ephemera media formats. While the most obvious vulnerability of new media art is rapid technological obsolescence, the study of its other aspects that defy traditional conservation—including hybrid, contextual, or 'live' qualities—has provoked investigation into new strategies for preserving conceptual art, performance, installation art, video art, and even to a limited extent painting and sculpture.\n\nThe catchall term sometimes applied to such genres, \"variable media\", suggests that it is possible to recapture the experience of these works independently of the specific physical material and equipment used to display them in a given exhibition or performance. As the nature of multi-media artworks calls for the development of new standards, techniques, and metadata within preservation strategies, the idea that certain artworks incorporating an array of media elements could be variable opens up the possibility for experimental standards of preservation and reinterpretation.\n\nNevertheless, many new media preservationists work to integrate new preservation strategies with existing documentation techniques and metadata standards. This effort is made in order to remain compatible with previous frameworks and models on how to archive, store and maintain variable media objects in a standardized repository utilizing a systematized vocabulary, such as the Open Archival Information System model.\n\nWhile some of this research parallels and exploits progress made in the practice of Digital preservation and Web archiving, the preservation of new media art offers special challenges and opportunities. Whereas scientific data and legal records may be easily migrated from one platform to another without losing their essential function, artworks are often sensitive to the look and feel of the media in which they are embedded. On the other hand, artists who are invited to help imagine a long-term plan for their work often respond with creative solutions.\n\nThe acquisition and storage of the physical media-equipment, such as DVD players or computers, used in multi-media or digital artworks has proven a short-term tactic at best, as hardware can quickly become obsolete or can 'stale' in storage. Storage is also notoriously bad at capturing the contextual and live aspects of works such as Internet art, performance art and live electronic music.\n\nVariations on storage include:\n\nThe periodic transfer of an audiovisual or digital file from one cassette or disk to another device of identical format.\n\nThe cleaning or repair of an existing artifact or file, especially when the new version supersedes or replaces the original.\n\nThe use of computers linked by a persistent data loop to keep critical files in circulation or as multiple copies cloned on multiple hard drives.\n\nTo migrate a work of art is to upgrade its format from an aged medium to a more current one, such as from VHS to DVD, accepting that some changes in quality may occur while still maintaining the integrity of the original. This strategy assumes that preserving the content or information of an artwork, despite its change in media, trumps concerns over fidelity to the original look and feel.\n\nThe process of simulating an older operating system (or by extension, other supporting infrastructure) on a newer software or hardware platform is called emulation. As in migration, the impetus behind emulation is to keep a work alive though its original media may become obsolete; unlike migration, however, emulation of computer-based art preserves the original code underlying the artwork. Emulation software is currently in various stages of development and efficiency.\n\nIn 2004, the Guggenheim Museum, in conjunction with the Daniel Langlois Foundation, held an exhibition entitled \"Seeing Double: Emulation in Theory and Practice\" as a trial of emulation. In the exhibition, artworks operating on their original physical media were displayed alongside versions emulated on newer physical media. The exhibition was organized with the participation of computer researcher and emulation specialist, Jeff Rothenberg. In 1998, Rothenberg had published \"Avoiding Technological Quicksand: Finding a Viable Technical Foundation for Digital Preservation\".\n\nThe most powerful, but also most risky, preservation strategy for new media art is to reinterpret the work each time it is re-created. Reinterpretation may require rewriting code for a completely different platform, following site-specific instructions regarding installation, or recasting a work in a contemporary medium with the metaphoric value of an outdated medium. Reinterpretation is a dangerous technique when not warranted by the artist, but it may be the only way to re-create performed, installed, or networked art designed to vary with context.\n\nFirst developed in 2000 by Jon Ippolito, associate curator at the Guggenheim Museum, the Variable Media Questionnaire is an interactive form linked to a larger database, which is designed to capture behavioral information about digital, performative, and other variable media artworks upon their acquisition by a museum. The goal is to specifically define 'what it is' and 'what is needed' when the museum is acquiring a work of this kind. The goal of the Questionnaire is to assist artists and museum professionals in understanding which attributes of an artwork may change and how best to make those changes when future re-creations necessitate them.\n\nBased on the premise that some aspects of an artwork's logic or presentation can be considered independently from the physical context and equipment used to display that artwork, the Questionnaire captures information about the following \"behaviors\" or medium-independent aspects:\n\nCovers glazing; coating; support/structure/mounting; frame; acceptable change in surface.\n\nCovers space; boundary; access; lighting; sound; security; base/s; distribution of elements; display equipment for inert elements; architectural placement; equipment visibility.\n\nCovers props; set; costumes; performers; number of performers; format of instructions; instructions apply to...; documentation of new performances; audience location; boundary; synchronization of performance.\n\nCovers user input; interaction mechanism; maintenance.\n\nCovers relationship to artist master; location of master; status of master; acceptable fabricators and vendors; acceptable submasters or exhibition copy; permission to create submaster; fate of exhibition copy; permission to compress/digitize.\n\nCovers inert material; physical attributes of inert material; authorized fabricators and vendors; materials duplicated according to...; electronic equipment and hardware; fate of exhibition copies.\n\nCovers screen resolution; color palette; external data source; fonts; source openness.\n\nCovers exhibition context; external data sources; non-standard protocol; minimum bandwidth; network model.\n\nDeveloped by Richard Rinehart, Digital Media Director and Adjunct Curator, Berkeley Art Museum/Pacific Film Archive, MANS is described as a 'formal notation system for media art' that is in keeping with existing preservation frameworks and vocabularies currently being used to document and preserve other forms of art by museums.\n\nUsing the metaphor of the musical score, as a form of declarative and conceptual notation of music, Rinehart likens Media Art to musical compositions that are able to maintain their original integrity while being realized by different instruments or in different arrangements, over evolving time periods; in this sense, scores are considered to be inherently variable. In Rinehart's view, media art (in which logical information is considered separate from physical hardware) is able to be 'scored' based on the information acquired from a document like the Variable Media Questionnaire to be realized by different media-equipment.\n\nMaintaining the notion of the musical score, the Media Art Notation System is derived as (and has as its underlying structure) an interpretation of computer programming languages, drawing primarily from Digital Item Declaration Language (DIDL), a type of Extensible Markup Language (XML) that allows for greater, more granular descriptions of a multi-component digital object. MANS has three layers; the conceptual model of documentation, the preferred expression format (vocabulary) for the model (the interpretation of DIDL XML) and, its top layer, the score, which serves as a record of the work that is database-processable.\n\nIt is hoped that by interweaving the ideas of a declarative language and a more procedural language, MANS is able to act as a backbone to the artwork by being specifically suggestive though not overly prescriptive of how to best delineate and then, later, reinterpret an artwork.\n\nNumerous contemporary art conservators have contributed individual efforts toward new media art preservation:\n\nAs a deputy director and chief conservator, Stringari led laser research of a monochromatic painting by Ad Reinhardt and project on conservation of the works of László Moholy-Nagy. She later won the CAA/Heritage Preservation Award for Distinction for Scholarship and Conservation for her work on Ad Reinhardt's technique.\nHead of Time-based media conservation at the Tate, Laurenson is currently working to achieve her PhD in the care and management of time-based media works of art at University College London.\n\nDirector of Collections & Conservation at SFMOMA, Sterret is an avid collector and preserver of artworks made by contemporary artists. She is committed to the vital collaborations between artists, curators, technical experts, registrars, and conservators that support contemporary art conservation practice.\n\nThe variable media concept was developed in 1998, first as a creative strategy Ippolito brought to the adversarial collaborations produced with artists Janet Cohen and Keith Frank, and later as a preservation strategy called the Variable Media Initiative that he applied to endangered artworks in the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum's collection. In 2002 the Guggenheim partnered with the Daniel Langlois Foundation for Art, Science and Technology in Montreal to form the Variable Media Network, a concerted effort to develop a museum-standard, best practice for the collection and preservation of new media art. Apart from Stringari and Ippolito, other key members of the Variable Media Network included Alain Depocas, Director of the Centre for Research and Documentation, Daniel Langlois Foundation; and Caitlin Jones, former Daniel Langlois Variable Media Preservation Fellow at the Guggenheim Museum.\n\nAround this time similar investigations into the preservation of digital/media art were being led on the West Coast by Richard Rinehart, who published an article on the subject, \"The Straw that Broke the Museum's Back? Collecting and Preserving Digital/Media Art for the Next Century\", in 2000. Rinehart had also established Conceptual & Intermedia Arts Online (CIAO)with Franklin Furnace, the New York-based performance art-grants giving organization and archive/advocate of performance, 'ephemeral' or non-traditional art under the directorship of Martha Wilson.\n\nMembers of the Variable Media Network and CIAO subsequently joined forces with other organizations, including Rhizome.org, an affiliate of New York's New Museum of Contemporary Art, for collective preservation endeavors such as Archiving the Avant Garde. This broader coalition, operating under the rubric Forging the Future, is managed by the Still Water lab at the University of Maine and offers free, open-source tools for new media preservation, including the 3rd-generation Variable Media Questionnaire.\n\nIn 2002, Timothy Murray founded the Rose Goldsen Archive of New Media Art. Named after the pioneering critic of the commercialization of mass media, the late Professor Rose Goldsen of Cornell University. The Archive hosts international art work produced on CD-Rom, DVD-Rom, video, digital interfaces, and the internet. Its collection of supporting materials includes unpublished manuscripts and designs, catalogues, monographs, and resource guides to new media art. The curatorial vision emphasizes digital interfaces and artistic experimentation by international, independent artists. Designed as an experimental center of research and creativity, the Goldsen Archive includes materials by individual artists and collaborates on conceptual experimentation and archival strategies with international curatorial and fellowship projects.\n\nOther important initiatives include DOCAM, an international research alliance on the documentation and the conservation of the media arts heritage organized by the Daniel Langlois Foundation, and the International Network for the Conservation of Contemporary Art (INCCA), organized by the Netherlands Institute for Cultural Heritage (ICN).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44469022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44469022", "title": "Czech Helsinki Committee", "text": "Czech Helsinki Committee\n\nThe Czech Helsinki Committee is a non-governmental non-profit organization for human rights. It has operated in Czechoslovakia since 1988 and in the Czech Republic since 1993. It was founded as one of the first \"Helsinki\" organizations outside of the USSR, and is the first formalized human rights NGO in the country.\n\nHenry Kissinger is often credited with having coined the term détente in 1973 during the height of Cold War tensions. It was during the so-called détente phase, on 3 July 1973, that the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe (CSCE) was opened in Helsinki, Finland. The CSCE was created as a multilateral forum for dialogue and negotiation motivated by the political will to improve relations between East and West and contribute to peace, security, justice and cooperation in Europe.\n\nThe CSCE continued again in Geneva, Switzerland from 18 September 1973 to 21 July 1975, and concluded in Helsinki on 1 August 1975. The meeting in August set up the Helsinki Final Act that contained key commitments on polito-military, economic, environmental, and human rights issues—later known as the “Helsinki process” or “Helsinki Accords”. The Helsinki Accords also established ten principles, the “Decalogue”, guiding relations between States and governing the relationship between States and their citizens.) Although the CSCE continued primarily as a series of meetings and conferences, the Paris Summit in November 1990—after the end of the Cold War—refocused the CSCE on managing the new changes in Europe. The CSCE gained permanent institutions and operational capabilities, and the name was changed to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) as part of a decision by the Budapest Summit of Heads of State or Government in December 1994.\n\nThe thirty-five participating States of the CSCE signed the Helsinki Final Act, which at that time, was the only international agreement linking peace and security with an obligation for the respect of human rights. The Decalogue, specifically Principle VII, addressed “ for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief”.\n\nOn May 12, 1976, at a press conference initiated by physicist and human rights activist Dr. Andrei Sakharov, Dr. Yuri F. Orlov—also a well respected physicist and member of the Armenian SSR Academy of Science—announced the formation of the Moscow Group for Assistance in Implementation of Helsinki Agreements, later known as the Moscow Helsinki Group. The watchdog organization based on Principle VII of the Decalogue, began documenting cases of humanitarian violations against USSR citizens and distributing the documents to the Supreme Soviet Presidium of the USSR, and the governments and media of the thirty-five signatories of the Helsinki Accords. Similar, Helsinki groups were established in Ukraine, Lithuania, Georgia, and Armenia respectively.\n\nAs the Helsinki groups were forming inside the USSR, the Worker's Defense Committee was founded in Poland in September 1976. Quickly following, on 1 January 1977, Charter 77 was established in Czechoslovakia. Although not labeled “Helsinki”, these groups focused on human rights issues and the accountability of their respective State constitutions and signatures on the Helsinki Accords. In September 1979 the Helsinki Watch Group was formed, and other Helsinki-labeled watchdog organizations were created throughout the thirty-five signatory States of the Helsinki Accords.\n\nIn 1982, after an appeal by Dr. Andrei Sakharov, in his 1978 book Alarm and Hope, for “a unified international committee to defend all Helsinki Watch Group members”, a number of Helsinki committees held an International Citizens Helsinki Watch Conference in Lake Como, Italy. Ironically, as these groups were meeting and creating a new organization, the Moscow Helsinki Group was forced to disband and almost all its members were arrested. The year before the conference, the U.S. Helsinki Watch Committee—later Human Rights Watch—traveled throughout Eastern and Western Europe seeking out groups and individuals interested in forming an International Helsinki Federation.\n\nOn 9 November 1982, member groups from Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, and the United States formed the International Helsinki Federation. A main goal was to create Helsinki Committees in all thirty-five Helsinki Accords signatory States. The establishment of the Czechoslovak Helsinki Committee was announced on 11 November 1988, and predominantly organized by the founding members of Charter 77.\n\nOrganizing the Czechoslovak Helsinki Committee along with Charter 77 was, the Jazz Section, the Association for Friendship between the ČSSR and the US, the Independent Peace Association and the Democratic Initiative. The history of the Czech Helsinki Committee is undeniably intertwined with the legacy of other distinguished human rights organizations such as the OSCE, Charter 77, and Human Rights Watch. In fact, the first chairperson of the Czechoslovak Helsinki Committee was Jiří Hájek, a former Minister of Foreign Affairs, and one of the co-founders of Charter 77.\n\nAfter the Velvet Revolution of November 1989 and the split of Czechoslovakia, the Czech Helsinki and Slovak Helsinki Committee were reformed as separate groups. The Czech Helsinki Committee continued working closely with other Helsinki committees and consulting with the Council of Europe. From monitoring and educating on Human Rights, to counseling centers and legal services the Czech Helsinki Committee continued to grow, and even spawned a separate Refugee Counseling Center and Citizenship Counseling Center. The mission today is similar and branching out to encompass areas such as prisoner's rights, women and children's rights, and asylum seekers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2690471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2690471", "title": "Data farming", "text": "Data farming\n\nData farming is the process of using designed computational experiments to “grow” data, which can then be analyzed using statistical and visualization techniques to obtain insight into complex systems. These methods can be applied to any computational model.\n\nData farming differs from Data mining, as the following metaphors indicate: \n\nMiners seek valuable nuggets of ore buried in the earth, but have no control over what is out there or how hard it is to extract the nuggets from their surroundings. ... Similarly, data miners seek to uncover valuable nuggets of information buried within massive amounts of data. Data-mining techniques use statistical and graphical measures to try to identify interesting correlations or clusters in the data set.\n\nFarmers cultivate the land to maximize their yield. They manipulate the environment to their advantage using irrigation, pest control, crop rotation, fertilizer, and more. Small-scale designed experiments let them determine whether these treatments are effective. Similarly, data farmers manipulate simulation models to their advantage, using large-scale designed experimentation to grow data from their models in a manner that easily lets them extract useful information. ...the results can reveal root cause-and-effect relationships between the model input factors and the model responses, in addition to rich graphical and statistical views of these relationships.\nA NATO modeling and simulation task group has documented the data farming process in the Final Report of MSG-088.\nHere, data farming uses collaborative processes in combining rapid scenario prototyping, simulation modeling, design of experiments, high performance computing, and analysis and visualization in an iterative loop-of-loops.\n\nThe science of Design of Experiments (DOE) has been around for over a century, pioneered by R.A. Fisher for agricultural studies. Many of the classic experiment designs can be used in simulation studies. However, computational experiments have far fewer restrictions than do real-world experiments, in terms of costs, number of factors, time required, ability to replicate, ability to automate, etc. Consequently, a framework specifically oriented toward large-scale simulation experiments is warranted.\n\nPeople have been conducting computational experiments for as long as computers have been around. The term “data farming” is more recent, coined in 1998 in conjunction with the Marine Corp’s Project Albert, in which small agent-based distillation models (a type of stochastic simulation) were created to capture specific military challenges. These models were run thousands or millions of times at the Maui High Performance Computer Center and other facilities. Project Albert analysts would work with the military subject matter experts to refine the models and interpret the results.\n\nInitially, the use of brute-force full factorial (gridded) designs meant that the simulations needed to run very quickly and the studies required high-performance computing. Even so, only a small number of factors (at a limited number of levels) could be investigated, due to the curse of dimensionality.\n\nThe SEED Center for Data Farming at the Naval Postgraduate School also worked closely with Project Albert in model generation, output analysis, and the creation of new experimental designs to better leverage the computing capabilities at Maui and other facilities. Recent breakthroughs in designs specifically developed for data farming can be found in \n,\namong others.\n\nA series of international data farming workshops have been held since 1998 by the SEED Center for Data Farming. International Data Farming Workshop 1 occurred in 1991, and since then 16 more workshops have taken place. The workshops have seen a diverse array of representation from participating countries, such as Canada, Singapore, Mexico, Turkey, and the United States. \n\nThe International Data Farming Workshops operate through collaboration between various teams of experts. The most recent workshop held in 2008 saw over 100 teams participating. The teams of data farmers are assigned a specific area of study, such as robotics, homeland security, and disaster relief. Different forms of data farming are experimented with and utilized by each group, such as the Pythagoras ABM, the Logistics Battle Command model, and the agent-based sensor effector model (ABSEM).\n\n"}
{"id": "6881982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6881982", "title": "Dausuva", "text": "Dausuva\n\nDausuva (named after Dausos - spirit world in Lithuanian mythology), also known as Atsarginė Lietuva () and Žalioji Atžala\n(), is the name of a geopolitical project by Lithuanian thinker Kazys Pakštas to create a Lithuanian colony in a geopolitically safe area. This semi-independent state was thought to serve as a safe haven for Lithuanians if the Republic of Lithuania would be occupied. In 1924 Kazys Pakštas considered Quebec to be the best location for such a colony. Later his attention switched to the state of São Paulo (Brasil) (1927), Angola (1930) and Madagascar. Efforts to establish a Lithuanian colony in Venezuela were abandoned due to the unstable political situation there. So finally it was decided to establish the Lithuanian colony in British Honduras. Meetings to set a land purchase or lease deal with local authorities in British Honduras were held. But due to the rise of an independence movement in British Honduras this project was not realised. The last considered location for Dausuva were the Bahamas, but support for this project was getting weaker and it never came close to realisation.\n\n Article on Reserve Lithuania\n"}
{"id": "530256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=530256", "title": "De dicto and de re", "text": "De dicto and de re\n\nDe dicto and de re are two phrases used to mark a distinction in intensional statements, associated with the intensional operators in many such statements. The distinction is used regularly in metaphysics and in philosophy of language.\n\nThe literal translation of the phrase \"de dicto\" is \"about what is said\", whereas \"de re\" translates as \"about the thing\". The original meaning of the Latin locutions may help to elucidate the living meaning of the phrases, in the distinctions they mark. The distinction can be understood by examples of intensional contexts of which three are considered here: a context of thought, a context of desire, and a context of modality.\n\nThere are two possible interpretations of the sentence \"Peter believes someone is out to get him\". On one interpretation, 'someone' is unspecific and Peter suffers a general paranoia; he believes that it is true that a person is out to get him, but does not necessarily have any beliefs about who this person may be. What Peter believes is that the predicate 'is out to get Peter' is satisfied. This is the \"de dicto\" interpretation.\n\nOn the \"de re\" interpretation, 'someone' is specific, picking out some particular individual. There is some person Peter has in mind, and Peter believes that person is out to get him.\n\nIn the context of thought, the distinction helps us explain how people can hold seemingly self-contradictory beliefs. Say Lois Lane believes Clark Kent is weaker than Superman. Since Clark Kent is Superman, taken \"de re\", Lois's belief is untenable; the names 'Clark Kent' and 'Superman' pick out an individual in the world, and a person (or super-person) cannot be stronger than himself. Understood \"de dicto\", however, this may be a perfectly reasonable belief, since Lois is not aware that Clark and Superman are one and the same.\n\nConsider the sentence \"Jana wants to marry the tallest man in Fulsom County\". It could be read either \"de dicto\" or \"de re\"; the meanings would be different. One interpretation is that Jana wants to marry the tallest man in Fulsom County, whoever he might be. On this interpretation, what the statement tells us is that Jana has a certain unspecific desire; what she desires is that a certain situation should obtain, namely, \"Jana's marrying the tallest man in Fulsom County\". The desire is directed at that situation, regardless of how it is to be achieved. The other interpretation is that Jana wants to marry a certain man, who in fact happens to be the tallest man in Fulsom County. Her desire is for \"that man\", and she desires herself to marry \"him\". Again, the first interpretation, \"Jana desires that she marry the tallest man in Fulsom County\", is the \"de dicto\" interpretation. The second interpretation, \"Of the tallest man in Fulsom County, Jana desires that she marry him\", is the \"de re\" interpretation.\n\nAnother way to understand the distinction is to ask what Jana would want if the man who was the tallest man in Fulsom County, at the time the original statement was made, were to lose his accolade to a 9 foot tall immigrant, such that he was no longer the tallest man in Fulsom County. If she continued to want to marry that man – and, importantly, perceived this as representing no change in her desires – then she could be taken to have meant the original statement in a \"de re\" sense. If she no longer wanted to marry that man but instead wanted to marry the \"new\" tallest man in Fulsom County, and saw this as a continuation of her earlier desire, then she meant the original statement in a \"de dicto\" sense.\n\nThe number of discovered chemical elements is 118. Take the sentence \"The number of chemical elements is necessarily greater than 100\". Again, there are two interpretations as per the \"de dicto\"/\"de re\" distinction. According to the \"de dicto\" interpretation, even if the inner workings of the atom could differ, there could not be fewer than 100 elements. The second interpretation, \"de re\", is that things could not have gone differently with the number 118 turning out to be fewer than 100. Intuitively, this claim is true. Of all the ways the world could have turned out, presumably there are no possibilities wherein 118 is fewer than 100. That 118 is greater than 100 is a necessary fact. The \"de dicto\" interpretation seems to yield a false statement. The \"de re\" interpretation seems to yield a true statement.\n\nAnother example: \"The President of the USA in 2001 could not have been Al Gore\". This claim seems false on a \"de dicto\" reading. Presumably, things could have gone differently, with the Supreme Court not claiming that Bush had won the election. But it looks more plausible on a \"de re\" reading. After all, we might skeptically wonder of George W. Bush whether \"he\" could have been Al Gore. Indeed, assuming that \"being George Bush\" is an essential feature of George Bush and that this feature is incompatible with being Al Gore, a \"de re\" reading of the statement is true.\n\nIn modal logic the distinction between \"de dicto\" and \"de re\" is one of scope. In \"de dicto\" claims, any existential quantifiers are within the scope of the modal operator, whereas in \"de re\" claims the modal operator falls within the scope of the existential quantifier. For example:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31253400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31253400", "title": "Delayed judgement", "text": "Delayed judgement\n\nDelayed judgment is a keyword mentioned in Sean Covey's self-help book, \"The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Teens\". Referring to the our paradigms of other people and situations, delayed judgment is a tool that can be used to make our paradigms more accurate.\n\"We too often judge people without having all of the facts... Out paradigms are often incomplete, inaccurate or completely messed up. Therefore, we shouldn't be so quick to judge.\"\n"}
{"id": "6155162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6155162", "title": "Digestate", "text": "Digestate\n\nDigestate is the material remaining after the anaerobic digestion of a biodegradable feedstock. Anaerobic digestion produces two main products: digestate and biogas. Digestate is produced both by acidogenesis and methanogenesis and each has different characteristics.\n\nAcidogenic digestate is fibrous and consists of structural plant matter including lignin and cellulose. Acidogenic digestate has high moisture retention properties. The digestate may also contain minerals and remnants of bacteria.\n\nMethanogenic digestate is a sludge (sometimes called a liquor). This is often high in nutrients such as ammoniums and phosphates.\n\nThe primary use of digestate is as a soil conditioner. Acidogenic digestate provides moisture retention and organic content for soils. This organic material can break down further, aerobically in soil. Methanogenic digestate provides nutrients for plant growth. It can also be used to protect soils against erosion.\n\nAcidogenic digestate can also be used as an environmentally friendly filler to give structure to composite plastics.\n\nGrowth trials on digestate originating from mixed waste have showed healthy growth results for crops. Digestate can also be used in intensive greenhouse cultivation of plants, e.g. in Digeponics.\n\nApplication of digestate has been shown to inhibit plant diseases and induction of resistance. Digestate application has a direct effect on soil-born diseases, and an indirect effect by stimulation of biological activity.\n\nDigestate is technically not compost although it is similar to it in physical and chemical characteristics. Compost is produced by aerobic digestion- decomposition by aerobes. This includes fungi and bacteria which are able to break down the lignin and cellulose to a greater extent.\n\nThe standard of digestate produced by anaerobic digestion can be assessed on three criteria, chemical, biological and physical aspects. Chemical quality needs to be considered in terms of heavy metals and other inorganic contaminant, persistent organic compounds and the content of macro-elements such as nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium. Depending on their source, biowastes can contain pathogens, which can lead to the spreading of human, animal or plant diseases if not appropriately managed. \n\nThe physical standards of composts includes mainly appearance and odour factors. Whilst physical contamination does not present a problem with regards to human, plant or animal health, contamination (in the form of plastics, metals and ceramics) can cause a negative public perception. Even if the compost is of high quality and all standards are met, a negative public perception of waste-based composts still exists. The presence of visible contaminants reminds users of this.\n\nQuality control of the feedstock is the most important way of ensuring a quality end product. The content and quality of waste arriving on-site should be characterised as thoroughly as possible prior to being supplied.\n\nIn the UK the Publicly Available Specification (called PAS110) governs the definition of digestate derived from the anaerobic digestion of source-segregated biodegradable materials. The specification ensures all digested materials are of consistent quality and fit for purpose. If a biogas plant meets the standard, its digestate will be regarded as having been fully recovered and to have ceased to be waste, and it can be sold with the name “Bio- fertiliser”.\n\n"}
{"id": "27139763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27139763", "title": "Disability hate crime", "text": "Disability hate crime\n\nDisability hate crime is a form of hate crime arising from the hostility of the perpetrator towards the disability, or perceived disability, of the victim, or because of their perceived connection to disability. It is often viewed politically as a logical extreme of ableism (sometimes known in the UK by the disputed word \"disablism\"), carried through into criminal acts against the person. This phenomenon can take many forms, from verbal abuse and intimidatory behaviour to vandalism, assault, or even murder. Disability hate crimes may take the form of one-off incidents, or may represent systematic abuse which continues over periods of weeks, months or even years.\n\nDisability hate crime may occur between strangers who have never met, between acquaintances or within the family. The two key requirements for an act to be called a \"disability hate crime\" are that it is motivated in part or whole by prejudice against someone because of disability; and second, that the act is actually a crime.\n\nSir Ken Macdonald, QC, the then Director of Public Prosecutions for England and Wales stated in a speech to the Bar Council in October 2008 that \"I am on record as saying that it is my sense that disability hate crime is very widespread. I have said that it is my view that at the lower end of the spectrum there is a vast amount not being picked up. I have also expressed the view that the more serious disability hate crimes are not always being prosecuted as they should be. This is a scar on the conscience of criminal justice. And all bodies and all institutions involved in the delivery of justice, including my own, share the responsibility.\" \n\nIn the United States, the \"Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act\" of 2009 expanded the 1969 United States federal hate-crime law to include crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived disability.\n\nIn the UK, disability hate crime is regarded as an aggravating factor under Section 146 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, allowing a heavier tariff to be used in sentencing than the crime might draw without the hate elements. Section 146 states that the sentencing provisions apply if:\n\nThe test in Section 146 is deliberately one for evidence of 'hostility' rather than 'hatred' as the seriousness of the offence was considered to justify the application of a less-strict test.\n\nThe historical failure of police forces, prosecutors and some social care organizations to treat disability hate crime as a serious issue, an echo of previous failures over other forms of hate crime, particularly racial and LGBT-focused hate crimes, has led to chronic under-reporting. This under-reporting is both pre-emptive, through a widespread belief within the disabled community that they will not be treated seriously by law enforcement, and post-facto, where police forces investigate the crime as non hate-based and record it as such.\n\nThe UK Crown Prosecution Service's Annual Hate Crime Report, shows that 11,624 cases of racial or religious hate crime were prosecuted in England and Wales in 2009 with 10,690 leading to successful convictions. By contrast only 363 prosecutions and 299 convictions were for disability hate crimes.\n\nThe UK charity Scope has conducted research into the prevalence and experience of disability hate crime, summarizing their findings and those of other disability groups in the report \"Getting Away With Murder\" Katharine Quarmby, who wrote the report and was the first British journalist to investigate disability hate crime, has also written a book on the matter.\n\nThe treatment of disability hate crimes has been affected by the perception of disabled people as inherently vulnerable. This is a multi-faceted issue. Unfounded application of the 'vulnerable' label to a disabled person is considered a form of infantilization, a type of ableism in which disabled people are regarded as childlike, rather than as functioning adults. \n\nPerceptions of vulnerability can also lead to the perception that the victim is partially or entirely responsible for the crime. For example, a disabled person may be perceived as having been at fault due to being alone after dark, i.e. engaged in risky behaviour. This pattern of victim blaming has also appeared in the prosecution of rape and other sexual crimes.\n\nOn the other hand, it has been suggested that the vulnerability of victims is a key factor in all crimes. It has been applied to wide variety of scenarios, including people working at night or handling large amounts of money.\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service has issued guidance to its prosecutors reminding them that 'vulnerable' should only be used as a description of a person within the precise legal meaning of the term - for instance, as defined in section 16 of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "35742489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35742489", "title": "Doing gender", "text": "Doing gender\n\nIn sociology and gender studies, \"doing gender\" is the idea that in Western culture, gender, rather than being an innate quality of individuals, is a psychologically ingrained social construct that actively surfaces in everyday human interaction. This term was used by Candace West and Don Zimmerman in their article \"Doing Gender\", published in 1987 in \"Gender and Society\". According to this paper, an individual's performance of gender is intended to construct gendered behavior as naturally occurring. This façade furthers a system through which individuals are judged in terms of their failure or success to meet gendered societal expectations, called the accountability structure. The concept of doing gender was later expanded by authors such as West and Fenstermaker in the book \"Doing Gender, Doing Difference\". \n\nThe concept of \"doing\" gender came from conversations of gender from sociology and gender studies. The specific term \"doing gender\" was used in West and Zimmerman's article by the same title, originally written in 1977 but not published until 1987. West and Zimmerman illustrate that gender is performed in interactions, and that behaviors are assessed based on socially accepted conceptions of gender. Rather than focusing on how gender is ingrained in the individual or perpetuated by institutions, West and Zimmerman emphasize the interactional level as a site where gender is invoked and reinforced. They begin by differentiating sex from sex category and gender. In this piece, sex is the socially agreed upon criteria for being male or female, usually based on and individual's genitalia at birth or chromosomal typing before birth. Sex category is the assumed biological category, regardless of the individual's gender identification. This is \"established and sustained by the socially required identificatory displays that proclaim one's membership in one or the other category\". Gender, in this context, is the degree to which an actor is masculine or feminine, in light of societal expectations about what is appropriate for one's sex category.\n\nDoing gender according to West and Zimmerman \"is to advance a new understanding of gender as a routine accomplishment embedded in every day interaction\". Essentially, West and Zimmerman argued that gender is something that humans created. As humans, we have categorized and defined many aspects of life. If someone was not in favor of their gender role or did something that was not deemed \"correct\" for that gender this person would be committing an act of social deviance.\n\nGender is described as 'omnirelevant,' as it is apparent and relevant in almost every interaction. In their article, West and Zimmerman use examples such as bathrooms, sports, coupling, conversations, professions and the might have been division of labor to illustrate the ways in which gender is prevalent in many taken for granted activities. West and Zimmerman employ the example of a professional woman in a male-dominated field, through which it becomes apparent that the woman will have to make decisions as to whether or not she should engage in \"unfeminine\" behavior that would otherwise be an integral part of her identity.\n\nAnother component of this theory is gendered assessment of behavior. In the above example, the woman is engaging in behavior that will be assessed as either masculine or feminine by her co-workers. According to West and Zimmerman, this woman will be evaluated based on how her actions compare to accountability standards of the sex category she belongs to. Deviations from these expectations do not have an immediate effect on the accountability structure itself. Instead, failures to meet these standards are attributed to the individual rather than to the rigidity of recognized categories. With this theory, West and Zimmerman stress the importance of social interaction in maintaining the gender structure. Because individuals \"do\" and assess gender in interaction, gender is visible in a wide variety of activities such as conversation.\n\nThe idea that gender is something that individuals actively 'do' was largely inspired by the social psychological approach taken by Erving Goffman (1976) in \"Gender Display\".(p. 129) Goffman theorizes that humans make the assumption that each has an \"essential nature,\" which can be interpreted by reading \"natural signs given off or expressed by them\" (p. 75). One of the most basic natures that can be assumed from interpreting these signs is one's masculinity or femininity. Not only is gender often determined by others relatively easily, but this determination often establishes the ways in which individuals interact with one another. Goffman asserts that, because we habitually function within such scripts, they are taken to be further evidence of essential natures. He coins the term \"gender display\" as a way to conceptualize the ways in which individuals act in a gender appropriate manner. However, these performances are optional and vulnerable to disturbance, as inappropriate gender display can just as easily be invoked as socially accepted ones. Goffman asserts that there is a \"scheduling\" of gender displays around activities, so that the activities themselves are not interrupted by gender displays. For instance, colleagues may interact in a gendered manner during their lunch hour, rather than while they are working together on a project. West and Zimmerman take issue with this piece of Goffman's perspective, claiming that this masks the ways in which gender displays permeate nearly all social situations in that individuals cannot avoid being interpreted as masculine or feminine.\n\nMedia has a powerful influence over many aspects of modern life. The way gender is expressed and perceived by audiences varies from culture to culture. The language within a culture as \"the Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis [states], notes how language influences our perceptions and thus shapes our reality.\" As language evolves within a culture and new language is added, the gender identities are influenced and categories change. The influence of language and the significance it has often communicated over media and the gender categories people use to place gender roles in, may change or add new categories. There are other areas that gender roles and differences stem from, \"some researchers suggest that gender differences result from a variety of factors including socialization and biology…gender roles are often manifested through communication and culture (Goffman, 1976; Lauzen et al., 2008; Wanta & Legett, 1989; Williams & Best, 1990; Wood, 2009).\"\n\nGender is something that is always out there whether we are mindful of it or not: \"Gender identity and gender roles are a significant part of everyday life.\" On top of this, gender roles help us make sense of our environment, they influence relationships and our own views. Since the social aspect of life is such an essential part and needs to be fulfilled, we are exposed to gender roles frequently and sometimes unconsciously, absorbing it if it fits with the category that society has influenced us to perceive it as. \"In contemporary media and culture, women's and men's social desirability and gender often been defined in terms of their bodies. For women this has often involved comparing themselves to and even replicating the 'thin ideal'.\" These views like the 'thin ideal' are reinforced through media with advertising, actors, and Photoshop touchups. On the other end, men have been shown images of being extremely fit and muscular, usually in a pose that expresses power, and the cultures values of what 'masculinity' is for a culture. \"Gender-based definitions of success frequently revolve around presenting or developing their bodies as strong, youthful, active and physically dominant.\" These roles are promoted by society, with visual displays and traits assigned to specific gender roles. \"Goffman (1976) accounts for these traits in his research of magazine and newspaper photography, finding women to be pictured in more submissive positions while men are depicted in more elevated positions.\" These depictions of gender are growing in certain trending shows and movies. Lauzen and colleagues (2008) examined gender roles in television, \"they found male characters on prime time television were more likely to inhabit work roles, including blue collar, white collar, and extracurricular activities, while women were portrayed in more interpersonal roles involving romance, friendship, and family.\" The way gender roles are portrayed in TV can spill into everyday life. Another area that 'doing gender' is being expressed is in video games: \"Female characters are represented as highly sexualized while male characters possess exaggerated strength, are hyper masculine, aggressive, and, with the exception of showing hostility, lack emotion.\" The way gender roles are represented in video games adds another influence that society has to take in and this can make people think that these fictional depictions can be obtained. This then creates perspectives used to categorize gender roles and as we see others 'doing gender' we want to believe that we should be looking like these characters in games or actors in advertisements and T.V. \"A number of studies, for example, have demonstrated extensive 'gender-swapping' in 'avatar' creation for online gaming and in text based CMC.\" The increase in video games and in especially online environments allow people to step into other gender roles, by 'doing gender' that may be different in how they present themselves in real life. These online environments allow users to shape their roles in gender.\n\nThe rise of social media networks allows people to communicate globally and manage how others perceive them and how they choose to express their gender. The increase of digital content in today's technology has influences over gender roles, \"Digital formats…represent exciting possibilities for individuals who can explore the freedom of presenting a physical self that might differ from the one they present or perform in everyday life or form socially-defines expectations.\" People will put themselves into a role to look as though they fit in and to avoid embarrassment in case they violate a social norm.\n\nJudith Butler has written extensively on this topic, using the term \"gender performativity\". She explains the same idea of doing gender by explaining gender as a performance that people are taught and attempt to recreate through actions and presentation.\n\nThe concept of doing gender has been critiqued by scholars who assert that it does not take human agency and acts of resistance into account. \n\nIn order to illustrate the possibility of change, several works have been published in which researchers claim to document an 'undoing' or 'redoing' of gender. Francine M. Deutsch, in \"Undoing Gender\" (2007), examines how the concept of doing gender has been employed in research. Deutsch uses examples of studies that use West and Zimmerman's work to illustrate how normative gender ideals are apparent in a variety of contexts. This, she argues, contributes to the invisibility of gender transgression and does not work towards West and Zimmerman's goal of eliminating gender inequity. In order to facilitate the undoing of gender, Deutsch suggests that \"The study of the interactional level could expand beyond simply documenting the persistence of inequality to examine (1) when and how social interactions become less gendered, not just differently gendered; (2) the conditions under which gender is irrelevant in social interactions; (3) whether all gendered interactions reinforce inequality; (4) how the structural (institutional) and interactional levels might work together to produce change; and (5) interaction as the site of change\" (p. 114). By focusing on these areas, Deutsch asserts, it is easier to find practical solutions to problems cause by gender inequity.\n\nCatherine Connell (2010) presented the idea of \"redoing gender\" as well as \"doing transgender\" in her work, \"Doing, Undoing or Redoing Gender?: Learning from the Workplace Experiences of Transpeople\". Connell posits that transpeople may redo gender by altering normative ideas of gender in their interactions, but may simultaneously participate in the doing of gender in other ways. Connell coins the term \"doing transgender\" in order to provide a way to examine how transpeople must make sense of the disconnect between sex, gender and sex category, which they may obscure or actively express in interactions.\n\nIn January 2009, the academic journal \"Gender and Society\" published a West and Zimmerman Symposium, in honor of the concept of doing gender. Nine short articles were composed for the symposium, including a piece by West and Zimmerman. Several authors argued that the doing gender framework did not allow for agency, intent or consciousness. Other authors argued that biology needed to be focused on when considering doing gender, in order to understand what role the body plays in gender assessment.\n\nWest and Zimmerman responded with an article titled \"Accounting for Doing Gender\", in which they restated their original argument, with an emphasis on accountability. In this, they argued, the doing gender framework does not hide agency, but contextualizes it. Because individuals' gender will be interpreted based on the accountability structure, the effectiveness of their resistance may not serve to \"undo\" gender. The authors contend that gender may be \"redone\" but never \"undone\", as accountability structures may change but gender will not disappear.\n\nDoing difference is a concept that grew out of the authors' earlier idea of \"doing gender\", presented at the American Sociological Association in 1977 by Candace West and Don Zimmerman and published in \"Gender and Society\" in 1987. In 1995, Candace West and Sarah Fenstermaker sought to extend the idea of gender as an ongoing interactional process into the realms of race and class.\n\nThey begin by asserting that the intersection of these three fundamental ways to categorize social difference cannot simply be thought of in a mathematical or even strictly hierarchical sense. That is, simply plugging in these concepts as variables in a multiple regression model to predict life success in a particular society provides a simplified way to look at their relative effects, but would fail to provide an adequate basis for even understanding, lesser yet altering systemic inequalities based on race, class, and gender. For instance, poor black women in the United States face immense social disadvantages, but to place them at the bottom of some abstract listing of vulnerable populations tells us little about how race, class, and gender interacted in their biography and social milieu to constrain and direct their lives. Their analysis of these core differences from the standpoint of ethnomethodology turns the focus away from individual characteristics. Instead, they are understood processually as \"emergent properties of social situations\" which simultaneously produce systematically different outcomes for social groups and the rationale for such disparities.\n\nThe authors assert that the reason race and class were not adequately considered in earlier works is because the feminist movement has historically been the province of white middle class women in the developed world who were not sufficiently affected or attuned to the nature of these corollary oppressions. Furthermore, few women outside this privileged lot were able to gain access to institutions of higher education, which might have permitted them to engage in the academic discourse and activity about such shortcomings. Even if they had, the gatekeepers within the academy and at leading journals made this unlikely process even more difficult. Perhaps overt racism and classism (and sexism) is less apparent today in these institutions, but the tendency remains for those in positions of power to view the world in a way that discounts the experience of marginalized groups.\n\nThe central theme of \"difference\" here is meant to illustrate how the concepts of race and gender have been falsely conceived as biologically bound predictors of behavior and aptitude among those who are a certain skin color or sex. The commonalities within these somewhat arbitrary categories often exaggerated and the behavior of the most dominant group within the category (e.g. rich white men or women) becomes idealized as the only appropriate way to fulfill one social role. This conceptualization is then employed as a means of excluding and stigmatizing those who do not or cannot live up to these standards. This process of \"doing difference\" is realized in constant interpersonal interactions that reaffirm and reproduce social structure. Experiencing the world through the interaction of these \"essentialized\" characteristics and especially through dominant group's frame of reference (power interests) produces a pattern of thought and behavior that reproduces these social inequalities.\n\nSocial science research has rendered dubious any claim that race can simply be conflated with color, or gender with genitalia, or even class with paychecks. Class may not seem as prone to ideas about natural social differentiation, but within capitalist societies, it is often assumed that one's economic situation is a more or less direct indication of one's capacity to achieve. Since women and people of color taken are more often poor, natural disadvantage is at least tacitly assumed by many. Given the general observation that powerful groups seem to rely heavily on these ideas of natural subordination, many liberationist thinkers came to the conclusion that this essentialism would be a prime rhetorical vehicle to subvert. Thus, the deconstruction of role theory and functionalism within sociology was a central theme from the 1960s onward. This still left a somewhat gaping theoretical vacuum, one that continues to be felt by people struggling with this challenge to fundamentally alter their social cosmology.\n\nSocial constructionism has assumed the major explanatory role in these discussions by positing that the meanings of these supposedly ascribed statuses are in fact situationally dependent on the sort of social context in which we employ them. That is, race, class, and gender aren't just objective scientific facts, but dynamic processes of culturally constructing cues for moral behavior (for which one can be held personally accountable) in a particular circumstance. It is these constantly occurring processes, not some divinely decreed grand plan, which reproduces social structure. Individuals \"do difference\" when they acknowledge (knowingly or unknowingly) how their categorization renders them socially accountable to acting in a particular way in a situation. However, when individuals recalibrate \"doing difference\" to produce alternative ways to conceptualize interaction patterns, it amounts to social change.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8888", "title": "Déjà vu", "text": "Déjà vu\n\nDéjà vu (; is a French term describing the feeling that one has lived through the present situation before.\n\"Déjà vu\" is a feeling of familiarity and \"déjà vécu\" (the feeling of having \"already lived through\" something) is a feeling of recollection. Scientific approaches reject the explanation of \"déjà vu\" as \"precognition\" or \"prophecy,\" but rather explain it as an anomaly of memory, since despite the strong sense of recollection, the time, place, and practical context of the \"previous\" experience are uncertain or believed to be impossible. Two types of \"déjà vu\" are recognized: the pathological \"déjà vu\" usually associated with epilepsy or that, when unusually prolonged or frequent, or associated with other symptoms such as hallucinations, may be an indicator of neurological or psychiatric illness, and the non-pathological type characteristic of healthy people, about two-thirds of whom have had \"déjà vu\" experiences.\n\n\"Déjà vu\" is most strongly associated with temporal lobe epilepsy. This experience is a neurological anomaly related to epileptic electrical discharge in the brain, creating a strong sensation that an event or experience currently being experienced has already been experienced in the past.\n\nEarly researchers tried to establish a link between \"déjà vu\" and mental disorders such as anxiety, dissociative identity disorder and schizophrenia but failed to find correlations of any diagnostic value. No special association has been found between déjà vu and schizophrenia. A 2008 study found that \"déjà vu\" experiences are unlikely to be pathological dissociative experiences.\n\nSome research has looked into genetics when considering \"déjà vu\". Although there is not currently a gene associated with \"déjà vu\", the LGII gene on chromosome 10 is being studied for a possible link. Certain forms of the gene are associated with a mild form of epilepsy and, though by no means a certainty, \"déjà vu\", along with jamais vu, occurs often enough during seizures (such as simple partial seizures) that researchers have reason to suspect a link.\n\nCertain drugs increase the chances of \"déjà vu\" occurring in the user, resulting in a strong sensation that an event or experience currently being experienced has already been experienced in the past. Some pharmaceutical drugs, when taken together, have also been implicated in the cause of \"déjà vu\". Taiminen and Jääskeläinen (2001) reported the case of an otherwise healthy male who started experiencing intense and recurrent sensations of \"déjà vu\" upon taking the drugs amantadine and phenylpropanolamine together to relieve flu symptoms. He found the experience so interesting that he completed the full course of his treatment and reported it to the psychologists to write up as a case study. Because of the dopaminergic action of the drugs and previous findings from electrode stimulation of the brain (e.g. Bancaud, Brunet-Bourgin, Chauvel, & Halgren, 1994), Taiminen and Jääskeläinen speculate that \"déjà vu\" occurs as a result of hyperdopaminergic action in the mesial temporal areas of the brain.\n\nResearch has associated \"déjà vu\" experiences with good memory functions.\n\nThe similarity between a \"déjà-vu\"-eliciting stimulus and an existing, or non-existing but different, memory trace may lead to the sensation that an event or experience currently being experienced has already been experienced in the past. Thus, encountering something that evokes the implicit associations of an experience or sensation that \"cannot be remembered\" may lead to \"déjà vu\".\n\nIn an effort to reproduce the sensation experimentally, Banister and Zangwill (1941) used hypnosis to give participants posthypnotic amnesia for material they had already seen. When this was later re-encountered, the restricted activation caused thereafter by the posthypnotic amnesia resulted in 3 of the 10 participants reporting what the authors termed \"paramnesias\".\n\nMemory-based explanations may lead to the development of a number of non-invasive experimental methods by which a long sought-after analogue of \"déjà vu\" can be reliably produced that would allow it to be tested under well-controlled experimental conditions. Cleary suggests that \"déjà vu\" may be a form of familiarity-based recognition (recognition that is based on a feeling that an event or experience currently being experienced has already been experienced in the past) and that laboratory methods of probing familiarity-based recognition hold promise for probing \"déjà vu\" in laboratory settings.\n\nA 2012 study in the journal \"Consciousness and Cognition\", that used virtual reality technology to study reported \"déjà vu\" experiences, supported this idea. This virtual reality investigation suggested that similarity between a new scene's spatial layout and the layout of a previously experienced scene in memory (but which fails to be recalled) may contribute to the \"déjà vu\" experience. When the previously experienced scene fails to come to mind in response to viewing the new scene, that previously experienced scene in memory can still exert an effect—that effect may be a feeling of familiarity with the new scene that is subjectively experienced as a feeling that an event or experience currently being experienced has already been experienced in the past, or of having been there before despite knowing otherwise.\n\nAnother possible explanation for the phenomenon of \"déjà vu\" is the occurrence of \"cryptomnesia\", which is where information learned is forgotten but nevertheless stored in the brain, and similar occurrences invoke the contained knowledge, leading to a feeling of familiarity because the event or experience being experienced has already been experienced in the past, known as \"déjà vu\". Some experts suggest that memory is a process of reconstruction, rather than a recall of fixed, established events. This reconstruction comes from stored components, involving elaborations, distortions, and omissions. Each successive recall of an event is merely a recall of the last reconstruction. The proposed sense of recognition (\"déjà vu\") involves achieving a good \"match\" between the present experience and our stored data. This reconstruction, however, may now differ so much from the original event that we \"know\" we have never experienced it before, even though it seems similar.\n\nIn 1963, Robert Efron of Boston's Veterans Hospital proposed that \"déjà vu\" is caused by dual neurological processing caused by delayed signals. Efron found that the brain's sorting of incoming signals is done in the temporal lobe of the brain's left hemisphere. However, signals enter the temporal lobe \"twice\" before processing, once from each hemisphere of the brain, normally with a slight delay of milliseconds between them. Efron proposed that if the two signals were occasionally not synchronized properly, then they would be processed as two separate experiences, with the second seeming to be a re-living of the first.\n\nOne theory of \"déjà vu\" attributes the feeling of having previously seen or experienced something that is currently being seen or experienced to that of having dreamt about a similar situation or place and then forgetting about it until one seems to be mysteriously reminded of the situation or the place while awake. The spontaneity of these types of \"déjà vu\" \"moments\" can catch many people off-guard, especially when they get the sensation from visiting a specific place they have never been to before, to the point where they are in a temporary state of shock and disbelief.\n\n\"Jamais vu\" (from French, meaning \"never seen\") is a term in psychology which is used to describe any familiar situation which is not recognized by the observer.\n\nOften described as the opposite of \"déjà vu\", \"jamais vu\" involves a sense of eeriness and the observer's impression of seeing the situation for the first time, despite rationally knowing that he or she has been in the situation before. \"Jamais vu\" is more commonly explained as when a person momentarily does not recognize a word, person, or place that they already know. \"Jamais vu\" is sometimes associated with certain types of aphasia, amnesia, and epilepsy.\n\nTheoretically, a \"jamais vu\" feeling in a sufferer of a delirious disorder or intoxication could result in a delirious explanation of it, such as in the Capgras delusion, in which the patient takes a known person for a false double or impostor. If the impostor is himself, the clinical setting would be the same as the one described as depersonalisation, hence \"jamais vus\" of oneself or of the very \"reality of reality\", are termed depersonalisation (or surreality) feelings.\n\nThe feeling has been evoked through semantic satiation. Chris Moulin of the University of Leeds asked 95 volunteers to write the word \"door\" 30 times in 60 seconds. 68 percent of the subjects reported symptoms of \"jamais vu\", with some beginning to doubt that \"door\" was a real word.\n\nThe experience has also been named \"\"vuja de\" and \"véjà du\"\".\n\nPresque vu (, from French, meaning \"almost seen\") is the intense feeling of being on the very brink of a powerful epiphany, insight, or revelation, without actually achieving the revelation. The feeling is often therefore associated with a frustrating, tantalizing sense of incompleteness or near-completeness.\n\nDéjà rêvé (from French, meaning \"already dreamed\") is the feeling of having already dreamed something that you are now experiencing.\n\nDéjà entendu (literally \"already heard\") is the experience of feeling sure about having already heard something, even though the exact details are uncertain or were perhaps imagined.\n\nDéjà vous is a pun on the English pronunciation of déjà vu. The French pronunciation of the vowel U in vu, , is not a common vowel in English. Therefor déjà vu is usually pronounced with a in English. When pronounced this way, , it means \"already you\" in French, rather than \"already seen\" and is written \"déjà vous\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49447339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49447339", "title": "Effect algebra", "text": "Effect algebra\n\nEffect algebras are algebraic structures of a kind introduced by D. Foulis and M. Bennett to serve as a framework for unsharp measurements in quantum mechanics.\n\nAn effect algebra consists of an underlying set \"A\" equipped with a partial binary operation ⊞, a unary operation (−), and two special elements 0, 1 such that the following relationships hold:\n\n\nEvery effect algebra carries a natural order: define \"a\" ≤ \"b\" if and only if there exists an element \"c\" such that exists and is equal to \"b\". The defining axioms of effect algebras guarantee that ≤ is a partial order.\n"}
{"id": "1023390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1023390", "title": "Elastance", "text": "Elastance\n\nElectrical elastance is the inverse of capacitance. The SI unit of elastance is the inverse farad (F). The concept is not widely used by electrical and electronic engineers. The value of capacitors is invariably specified in units of capacitance rather than inverse capacitance. However, it is used in theoretical work in network analysis and has some niche applications at microwave frequencies.\n\nThe term \"elastance\" was coined by Oliver Heaviside through the analogy of a capacitor as a spring. The term is also used for analogous quantities in some other energy domains. It maps to stiffness in the mechanical domain, and is the inverse of compliance in the fluid flow domain, especially in physiology. It is also the name of the generalised quantity in bond-graph analysis and other schemes analysing systems across multiple domains.\n\nThe definition of capacitance (\"C\") is the charge (\"Q\") stored per unit voltage (\"V\").\n\nElastance (\"S\") is the reciprocal of capacitance, thus,\n\nExpressing the values of capacitors as elastance is not done much by practical electrical engineers, although it is sometimes convenient for capacitors in series. The total elastance is simply the sum of the individual elastances in that case. However, it is used by network theorists in their analysis. One advantage is that an increase in elastance increases impedance. This is in the same direction as the other two basic passive elements, resistance and inductance. An example of the use of elastance can be found in the 1926 doctoral thesis of Wilhelm Cauer. On his path to founding network synthesis he formed the loop matrix A,\n\nwhere L, R, S and Z are the network loop matrices of inductance, resistance, elastance and impedance respectively and \"s\" is complex frequency. This expression would be significantly more complicated if Cauer had tried to use a matrix of capacitances instead of elastances. The use of elastance here is merely for mathematical convenience, in much the same way as mathematicians use radians rather than the more common units for angles.\n\nElastance is also used in microwave engineering. In this field varactor diodes are used as a voltage variable capacitor in frequency multipliers, parametric amplifiers and variable filters. These diodes store a charge in their junction when reverse biased which is the source of the capacitor effect. The slope of the voltage-stored charge curve is called \"differential elastance\" in this field.\n\nThe SI unit of elastance is the reciprocal farad (F). The term \"daraf\" is sometimes used for this unit, but it is not approved by SI and its use is discouraged. The term is formed by writing \"farad\" backwards, in much the same way as the unit \"mho\" (unit of conductance, also not approved by SI) is formed by writing \"ohm\" backwards.\n\nThe term \"daraf\" was coined by Arthur E. Kennelly. He used it from at least 1920.\n\nThe terms \"elastance\" and \"elastivity\" were coined by Oliver Heaviside in 1886. Heaviside coined a great many of the terms used in circuit analysis today, such as impedance, inductance, admittance, and conductance. Heaviside's terminology followed the model of resistance and resistivity with the \"-ance\" ending used for extensive properties and the \"-ivity\" ending used for intensive properties. The extensive properties are used in circuit analysis (they are the \"values\" of components) and the intensive properties are used in field analysis. Heaviside's nomenclature was designed to highlight the connection between corresponding quantities in field and circuit. Elastivity is the intensive property of a material corresponding to the bulk property of a component, elastance. It is the reciprocal of permittivity. As Heaviside put it,\n\nHere, \"permittance\" is Heaviside's term for capacitance. He did not like any term that suggested that a capacitor was a container for holding charge. He rejected the terms \"capacity\" (capacitance) and \"capacious\" (capacitive) and their inverses \"incapacity\" and \"incapacious\". The terms current in his time for a capacitor were \"condenser\" (suggesting that the \"electric fluid\" could be condensed out) and \"leyden\" after the Leyden jar, an early form of capacitor, also suggesting some sort of storage. Heaviside preferred the analogy of a mechanical spring under compression, hence his preference for terms that suggested a property of a spring. This preference was a result of Heaviside following James Clerk Maxwell's view of electric current, or at least, Heaviside's interpretation of it. In this view, electric current is a flow caused by the electromotive force and is the analogue of velocity caused by a mechanical force. At the capacitor, this current causes a \"displacement\" whose rate of change is equal to the current. The displacement is viewed as an electric strain, like a mechanical strain in a compressed spring. The existence of a flow of physical charge is denied, as is the buildup of charge on the capacitor plates. This is replaced with the concept of divergence of the displacement field at the plates, which is numerically equal to the charge collected on the plates in the charge flow view.\n\nFor a period in the nineteenth and early-twentieth centuries, some authors followed Heaviside in the use of \"elastance\" and \"elastivity\". Today, the reciprocal quantities \"capacitance\" and \"permittivity\" are almost universally preferred by electrical engineers. However, elastance does still see some usage by theoretical writers. A further consideration in Heaviside's choice of these terms was a wish to distinguish them from mechanical terms. Thus, he chose \"elastivity\" rather than \"elasticity\". This avoids having to write \"electrical elasticity\" to disambiguate it from \"mechanical elasticity\".\n\nHeaviside carefully chose his terms to be unique to electromagnetism, most especially avoiding commonality with mechanics. Ironically, many of his terms have subsequently been borrowed back into mechanics and other domains in order to name analogous properties. For instance, it is now necessary to distinguish \"electrical impedance\" from \"mechanical impedance\" in some contexts. \"Elastance\" has also been borrowed back into mechanics for the analogous quantity by some authors, but often \"stiffness\" is the preferred term instead. However, \"elastance\" is widely used for the analogous property in the domain of fluid dynamics, especially in the fields of biomedicine and physiology.\n\nMechanical-electrical analogies are formed by comparing the mathematical description of the two systems. Quantities that appear in the same place in equations of the same form are called \"analogues\". There are two main reasons for forming such analogies. The first is to allow electrical phenomena to be explained in terms of the more familiar mechanical systems. For instance, an electrical inductor-capacitor-resistor circuit has differential equations of the same form as a mechanical mass-spring-damper system. In such cases the electrical domain is converted to the mechanical domain. The second, and more important, reason is to allow a system containing both mechanical and electrical parts to be analysed as a unified whole. This is of great benefit in the fields of mechatronics and robotics. In such cases the mechanical domain is most often converted to the electrical domain because network analysis in the electrical domain is highly developed.\n\nIn the analogy developed by Maxwell, now known as the impedance analogy, voltage is made analogous to force. The voltage of a source of electric power is still called electromotive force for this reason. Current is analogous to velocity. The time derivative of distance (displacement) is equal to velocity and the time derivative of momentum is equal to force. Quantities in other energy domains that are in this same differential relationship are called respectively \"generalised displacement\", \"generalised velocity\", \"generalised momentum\", and \"generalised force\". In the electrical domain, it can be seen that the generalised displacement is charge, explaining the Maxwellians' use of the term \"displacement\".\n\nSince elastance is the ratio of voltage over charge, then it follows that the analogue of elastance in another energy domain is the ratio of a generalised force over a generalised displacement. Thus, an elastance can be defined in any energy domain. \"Elastance\" is used as the name of the generalised quantity in the formal analysis of systems with multiple energy domains, such as is done with bond graphs.\n\nMaxwell's analogy is not the only way that analogies can be constructed between mechanical and electrical systems. There are any number of ways to do this. One very common system is the mobility analogy. In this analogy force maps to current instead of voltage. Electrical impedance no longer maps to mechanical impedance, and likewise, electrical elastance no longer maps to mechanical elastance.\n\n"}
{"id": "46439815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46439815", "title": "Feminist biology", "text": "Feminist biology\n\nFeminist biology is an approach to biology that is concerned with the influence of gender values, the removal of gender bias, and the understanding of the overall role of social values in biological research and practices. Feminist Biology, was founded by, among others, Dr. Ruth Bleier of the University of Wisconsin-Madison (who authored the 1984 work “Science and Gender: A Critique of Biology and Its Theories on Women” and inspired the university’s endowed fellowship for feminist biology), it aims to enhance biology by incorporating feminist critique in matters varying from the mechanisms of cell biology and sex selection to the assessment of the meaning of words such as “gender” and “sex.”\nOverall, the field is broadly defined and pertains itself to philosophies behind both biological and feminist practice. These considerations make feminist biology debatable and conflictive with itself, particularly when concerning matters of biological determinism, whereby descriptive sex terms of male and female are intrinsically confining, or extreme post-modernism, whereby the body is viewed more as a social construct. Despite opinions ranging from determinist to postmodernist, however, biologists, feminists, and feminist biologists of varying labels alike have made claims to the utility of applying feminist ideology to biological practice and procedure.\n\nDonna J. Haraway, a biologist and primatologist hailing from the University of California, put forth male bias criticisms in 1989 concerning the study of human evolution and culture via primatology by denoting a prominent lack of focus in female primates. Haraway contributed to a large discovery of behaviors in primate groups regarding mate selection, and female-female interactions derived from observing female primates, citing feminist influences as she studied the female primates in their own merit.\n\nSimilarly, feminist cell biologists of The Biology and Gender Study Group have criticized androcentrism in the study of behavior between sexes and “come to look at feminist critique as [they] would any experimental control.” They cite a general trend of “active” biological description associated with the sperm gamete and “passive” description to the ovum, comparing such description to an archetypal hero facing many challenges before it finding its static, female home. The group criticized the diction employed by biological readings and textbooks, stating that the more active and risk-associated traits of the ovum (such as its own survival from the whittling of 2 million oocytes) are dismissed for the sake of a patterned narrative.\n\nAnne Fausto-Sterling, a professor of Biology and Gender Studies at Brown University, assesses the complexity of defining sex through a dichotomous lens in a variety of her works such as Sexing the Body: Gender Politics and the Construction of Sexuality as well as in an article piece she wrote titled “The Five Sexes: Why Male and Female Are Not Enough.” She addresses the existence of intersex individuals and the lack of acknowledgment of their state of being in the context of a dichotomously defined world of sexes – even, if not especially, by medical professionals and surgeons who understand intersex anatomy to a point to where they can surgically alter it to one of the sexes. She states: “Ironically, a more sophisticated knowledge of the complexity of sexual systems has led to the repression of such intricacy.” Fausto-Sterling continues by advocating the reevaluation of what is considered urgent medical intervention in light of the influence she believes social stigma has had on standard medical procedure – which in turn could help open up the possible directions that science could take.\n\nThe motivations of advocating feminist biology are diverse. One of the most common motivations is to challenge the gender biases originated from science, by discerning a more objective, scientific truth from culturally influenced practices. Many individuals argue the emergence and development of modern science involved the domination of a female world and the exclusion of women. Reductionism, for instance, is a view that all matters in the universe are arranged hierarchically, and that causation only occurs at the lower levels of this hierarchy. A tight link exists between reductive mechanistic science and biological determinism, contributing to the argument that biological causes are the only causes, or the most important cause, of 'feminine' behavior. This link is due to the reductive assumption that causation acts in an upward direction from lower levels of organization to higher levels of organization. Many feminist biologists focus on dispelling such stigmatic prejudices that influential figures have accepted as scientifically true. \n\nThere is an ongoing debate on whether a feminist critique should be incorporated in the sciences, especially biology. Some argue that feminist biology is a form of politicization of science, calling to question the legitimacy of feminist biology altogether. On another level, there is debate even within the feminist community on how to deal with biological sex differences. Some account on the importance of accepting biological sex differences to reach gender equality, while others contend that there sex differences are overly emphasized in society, contributing to gender stereotypes. Individuals such as Carla Fehr offer constructive criticism for the future of feminist philosophy in the field of biology; she proposes feminist biologists to consider novel questions pertaining to subjects such as the research of genomics in relation to gender. \n"}
{"id": "26998617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26998617", "title": "Field (physics)", "text": "Field (physics)\n\nIn physics, a field is a physical quantity, represented by a number or tensor, that has a value for each point in space and time. For example, on a weather map, the surface wind velocity is described by assigning a vector to each point on a map. Each vector represents the speed and direction of the movement of air at that point. As another example, an electric field can be thought of as a \"condition in space\" emanating from an electric charge and extending throughout the whole of space. When a test electric charge is placed in this electric field, the particle accelerates due to a force. Physicists have found the notion of a field to be of such practical utility for the analysis of forces that they have come to think of a force as due to a field.\n\nIn the modern framework of the quantum theory of fields, even without referring to a test particle, a field occupies space, contains energy, and its presence precludes a classical \"true vacuum\".\nThis led physicists to consider electromagnetic fields to be a physical entity, making the field concept a supporting paradigm of the edifice of modern physics. \"The fact that the electromagnetic field can possess momentum and energy makes it very real ... a particle makes a field, and a field acts on another particle, and the field has such familiar properties as energy content and momentum, just as particles can have.\" In practice, the strength of most fields has been found to diminish with distance to the point of being undetectable. For instance the strength of many relevant classical fields, such as the gravitational field in Newton's theory of gravity or the electrostatic field in classical electromagnetism, is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source (i.e., they follow Gauss's law). One consequence is that the Earth's gravitational field quickly becomes undetectable on cosmic scales.\n\nA field can be classified as a scalar field, a vector field, a spinor field or a tensor field according to whether the represented physical quantity is a scalar, a vector, a spinor, or a tensor, respectively. A field has a unique tensorial character in every point where it is defined: i.e. a field cannot be a scalar field somewhere and a vector field somewhere else. For example, the Newtonian gravitational field is a vector field: specifying its value at a point in spacetime requires three numbers, the components of the gravitational field vector at that point. Moreover, within each category (scalar, vector, tensor), a field can be either a \"classical field\" or a \"quantum field\", depending on whether it is characterized by numbers or quantum operators respectively. In fact in this theory an equivalent representation of field is a field particle, namely a boson.\n\nTo Isaac Newton, his law of universal gravitation simply expressed the gravitational force that acted between any pair of massive objects. When looking at the motion of many bodies all interacting with each other, such as the planets in the Solar System, dealing with the force between each pair of bodies separately rapidly becomes computationally inconvenient. In the eighteenth century, a new quantity was devised to simplify the bookkeeping of all these gravitational forces. This quantity, the gravitational field, gave at each point in space the total gravitational acceleration which would be felt by a small object at that point. This did not change the physics in any way: it did not matter if all the gravitational forces on an object were calculated individually and then added together, or if all the contributions were first added together as a gravitational field and then applied to an object.\n\nThe development of the independent concept of a field truly began in the nineteenth century with the development of the theory of electromagnetism. In the early stages, André-Marie Ampère and Charles-Augustin de Coulomb could manage with Newton-style laws that expressed the forces between pairs of electric charges or electric currents. However, it became much more natural to take the field approach and express these laws in terms of electric and magnetic fields; in 1849 Michael Faraday became the first to coin the term \"field\".\n\nThe independent nature of the field became more apparent with James Clerk Maxwell's discovery that waves in these fields propagated at a finite speed. Consequently, the forces on charges and currents no longer just depended on the positions and velocities of other charges and currents at the same time, but also on their positions and velocities in the past.\n\nMaxwell, at first, did not adopt the modern concept of a field as a fundamental quantity that could independently exist. Instead, he supposed that the electromagnetic field expressed the deformation of some underlying medium—the luminiferous aether—much like the tension in a rubber membrane. If that were the case, the observed velocity of the electromagnetic waves should depend upon the velocity of the observer with respect to the aether. Despite much effort, no experimental evidence of such an effect was ever found; the situation was resolved by the introduction of the special theory of relativity by Albert Einstein in 1905. This theory changed the way the viewpoints of moving observers were related to each other. They became related to each other in such a way that velocity of electromagnetic waves in Maxwell's theory would be the same for all observers. By doing away with the need for a background medium, this development opened the way for physicists to start thinking about fields as truly independent entities.\n\nIn the late 1920s, the new rules of quantum mechanics were first applied to the electromagnetic fields. In 1927, Paul Dirac used quantum fields to successfully explain how the decay of an atom to a lower quantum state lead to the spontaneous emission of a photon, the quantum of the electromagnetic field. This was soon followed by the realization (following the work of Pascual Jordan, Eugene Wigner, Werner Heisenberg, and Wolfgang Pauli) that all particles, including electrons and protons, could be understood as the quanta of some quantum field, elevating fields to the status of the most fundamental objects in nature. That said, John Wheeler and Richard Feynman seriously considered Newton's pre-field concept of action at a distance (although they set it aside because of the ongoing utility of the field concept for research in general relativity and quantum electrodynamics).\n\nThere are several examples of classical fields. Classical field theories remain useful wherever quantum properties do not arise, and can be active areas of research. Elasticity of materials, fluid dynamics and Maxwell's equations are cases in point.\n\nSome of the simplest physical fields are vector force fields. Historically, the first time that fields were taken seriously was with Faraday's lines of force when describing the electric field. The gravitational field was then similarly described.\n\nA classical field theory describing gravity is Newtonian gravitation, which describes the gravitational force as a mutual interaction between two masses.\n\nAny body with mass \"M\" is associated with a gravitational field g which describes its influence on other bodies with mass. The gravitational field of \"M\" at a point r in space corresponds to the ratio between force F that \"M\" exerts on a small or negligible test mass \"m\" located at r and the test mass itself:\nStipulating that \"m\" is much smaller than \"M\" ensures that the presence of \"m\" has a negligible influence on the behavior of \"M\".\n\nAccording to Newton's law of universal gravitation, F(r) is given by\nwhere formula_3 is a unit vector lying along the line joining \"M\" and \"m\" and pointing from \"m\" to \"M\". Therefore, the gravitational field of M is\n\nThe experimental observation that inertial mass and gravitational mass are equal to an unprecedented level of accuracy leads to the identity that gravitational field strength is identical to the acceleration experienced by a particle. This is the starting point of the equivalence principle, which leads to general relativity.\n\nBecause the gravitational force F is conservative, the gravitational field g can be rewritten in terms of the gradient of a scalar function, the gravitational potential Φ(r):\n\nMichael Faraday first realized the importance of a field as a physical quantity, during his investigations into magnetism. He realized that electric and magnetic fields are not only fields of force which dictate the motion of particles, but also have an independent physical reality because they carry energy.\n\nThese ideas eventually led to the creation, by James Clerk Maxwell, of the first unified field theory in physics with the introduction of equations for the electromagnetic field. The modern version of these equations is called Maxwell's equations.\n\nA charged test particle with charge \"q\" experiences a force F based solely on its charge. We can similarly describe the electric field E so that . Using this and Coulomb's law tells us that the electric field due to a single charged particle is\n\nThe electric field is conservative, and hence can be described by a scalar potential, \"V\"(r):\n\nA steady current \"I\" flowing along a path \"ℓ\" will exert a force on nearby moving charged particles that is quantitatively different from the electric field force described above. The force exerted by \"I\" on a nearby charge \"q\" with velocity v is\nwhere B(r) is the magnetic field, which is determined from \"I\" by the Biot–Savart law:\n\nThe magnetic field is not conservative in general, and hence cannot usually be written in terms of a scalar potential. However, it can be written in terms of a vector potential, A(r):\n\nIn general, in the presence of both a charge density ρ(r, \"t\") and current density J(r, \"t\"), there will be both an electric and a magnetic field, and both will vary in time. They are determined by Maxwell's equations, a set of differential equations which directly relate E and B to ρ and J.\n\nAlternatively, one can describe the system in terms of its scalar and vector potentials \"V\" and A. A set of integral equations known as \"retarded potentials\" allow one to calculate \"V\" and A from ρ and J, and from there the electric and magnetic fields are determined via the relations\n\nAt the end of the 19th century, the electromagnetic field was understood as a collection of two vector fields in space. Nowadays, one recognizes this as a single antisymmetric 2nd-rank tensor field in spacetime.\n\nEinstein's theory of gravity, called general relativity, is another example of a field theory. Here the principal field is the metric tensor, a symmetric 2nd-rank tensor field in spacetime. This replaces Newton's law of universal gravitation.\n\nWaves can be constructed as physical fields, due to their finite propagation speed and causal nature when a simplified physical model of an isolated closed system is set . They are also subject to the inverse-square law.\n\nFor electromagnetic waves, there are optical fields, and terms such as near- and far-field limits for diffraction. In practice though, the field theories of optics are superseded by the electromagnetic field theory of Maxwell.\n\nIt is now believed that quantum mechanics should underlie all physical phenomena, so that a classical field theory should, at least in principle, permit a recasting in quantum mechanical terms; success yields the corresponding quantum field theory. For example, quantizing classical electrodynamics gives quantum electrodynamics. Quantum electrodynamics is arguably the most successful scientific theory; experimental data confirm its predictions to a higher precision (to more significant digits) than any other theory. The two other fundamental quantum field theories are quantum chromodynamics and the electroweak theory.\n\nIn quantum chromodynamics, the color field lines are coupled at short distances by gluons, which are polarized by the field and line up with it. This effect increases within a short distance (around 1 fm from the vicinity of the quarks) making the color force increase within a short distance, confining the quarks within hadrons. As the field lines are pulled together tightly by gluons, they do not \"bow\" outwards as much as an electric field between electric charges.\n\nThese three quantum field theories can all be derived as special cases of the so-called standard model of particle physics. General relativity, the Einsteinian field theory of gravity, has yet to be successfully quantized. However an extension, thermal field theory, deals with quantum field theory at \"finite temperatures\", something seldom considered in quantum field theory.\n\nIn BRST theory one deals with odd fields, e.g. Faddeev–Popov ghosts. There are different descriptions of odd classical fields both on graded manifolds and supermanifolds.\n\nAs above with classical fields, it is possible to approach their quantum counterparts from a purely mathematical view using similar techniques as before. The equations governing the quantum fields are in fact PDEs (specifically, relativistic wave equations (RWEs)). Thus one can speak of Yang–Mills, Dirac, Klein–Gordon and Schrödinger fields as being solutions to their respective equations. A possible problem is that these RWEs can deal with complicated mathematical objects with exotic algebraic properties (e.g. spinors are not tensors, so may need calculus over spinor fields), but these in theory can still be subjected to analytical methods given appropriate mathematical generalization.\n\nField theory usually refers to a construction of the dynamics of a field, i.e. a specification of how a field changes with time or with respect to other independent physical variables on which the field depends. Usually this is done by writing a Lagrangian or a Hamiltonian of the field, and treating it as a classical or quantum mechanical system with an infinite number of degrees of freedom. The resulting field theories are referred to as classical or quantum field theories.\n\nThe dynamics of a classical field are usually specified by the Lagrangian density in terms of the field components; the dynamics can be obtained by using the action principle.\n\nIt is possible to construct simple fields without any prior knowledge of physics using only mathematics from several variable calculus, potential theory and partial differential equations (PDEs). For example, scalar PDEs might consider quantities such as amplitude, density and pressure fields for the wave equation and fluid dynamics; temperature/concentration fields for the heat/diffusion equations. Outside of physics proper (e.g., radiometry and computer graphics), there are even light fields. All these previous examples are scalar fields. Similarly for vectors, there are vector PDEs for displacement, velocity and vorticity fields in (applied mathematical) fluid dynamics, but vector calculus may now be needed in addition, being calculus over vector fields (as are these three quantities, and those for vector PDEs in general). More generally problems in continuum mechanics may involve for example, directional elasticity (from which comes the term \"tensor\", derived from the Latin word for stretch), complex fluid flows or anisotropic diffusion, which are framed as matrix-tensor PDEs, and then require matrices or tensor fields, hence matrix or tensor calculus. It should be noted that the scalars (and hence the vectors, matrices and tensors) can be real or complex as both are fields in the abstract-algebraic/ring-theoretic sense.\n\nIn a general setting, classical fields are described by sections of fiber bundles and their dynamics is formulated in the terms of jet manifolds (covariant classical field theory).\n\nIn modern physics, the most often studied fields are those that model the four fundamental forces which one day may lead to the Unified Field Theory.\n\nA convenient way of classifying a field (classical or quantum) is by the symmetries it possesses. Physical symmetries are usually of two types:\n\nFields are often classified by their behaviour under transformations of spacetime. The terms used in this classification are:\n\nFields may have internal symmetries in addition to spacetime symmetries. In many situations, one needs fields which are a list of space-time scalars: (φ, φ, ... φ). For example, in weather prediction these may be temperature, pressure, humidity, etc. In particle physics, the color symmetry of the interaction of quarks is an example of an internal symmetry, that of the strong interaction. Other examples are isospin, weak isospin, strangeness and any other flavour symmetry.\n\nIf there is a symmetry of the problem, not involving spacetime, under which these components transform into each other, then this set of symmetries is called an \"internal symmetry\". One may also make a classification of the charges of the fields under internal symmetries.\n\nStatistical field theory attempts to extend the field-theoretic paradigm toward many-body systems and statistical mechanics. As above, it can be approached by the usual infinite number of degrees of freedom argument.\n\nMuch like statistical mechanics has some overlap between quantum and classical mechanics, statistical field theory has links to both quantum and classical field theories, especially the former with which it shares many methods. One important example is mean field theory.\n\nClassical fields as above, such as the electromagnetic field, are usually infinitely differentiable functions, but they are in any case almost always twice differentiable. In contrast, generalized functions are not continuous. When dealing carefully with classical fields at finite temperature, the mathematical methods of continuous random fields are used, because thermally fluctuating classical fields are nowhere differentiable. Random fields are indexed sets of random variables; a continuous random field is a random field that has a set of functions as its index set. In particular, it is often mathematically convenient to take a continuous random field to have a Schwartz space of functions as its index set, in which case the continuous random field is a tempered distribution.\n\nWe can think about a continuous random field, in a (very) rough way, as an ordinary function that is formula_13 almost everywhere, but such that when we take a weighted average of all the infinities over any finite region, we get a finite result. The infinities are not well-defined; but the finite values can be associated with the functions used as the weight functions to get the finite values, and that can be well-defined. We can define a continuous random field well enough as a linear map from a space of functions into the real numbers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6884616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6884616", "title": "Gender-neutral language", "text": "Gender-neutral language\n\nGender-neutral language or gender-inclusive language is language that avoids bias towards a particular sex or social gender. In English, this includes use of nouns that are not gender-specific to refer to roles or professions, as well as avoidance of the pronouns \"he\", \"him\" and \"his\" to refer to people of unknown or indeterminate gender. For example, the words \"policeman\" and \"stewardess\" are gender-specific job titles; the corresponding gender-neutral terms are \"police officer\" and \"flight attendant\". Other gender-specific terms, such as \"actor\" and \"actress\", may be replaced by the originally male term; for example, \"actor\" used regardless of gender. Some terms, such as \"chairman\", that contain the component \"-man\" but have traditionally been used to refer to persons regardless of sex are now seen by some as gender-specific. When the gender of the person referred to is unknown or indeterminate, the third-person pronoun \"he\" may be avoided by using gender-neutral alternatives – possibilities in English include singular \"they\", \"he or she\", or \"s/he\".\n\nHistorically, the use of masculine pronouns in place of generic was regarded as non-sexist, but various forms of gender-neutral language became a common feature in written and spoken versions of many languages in the late twentieth century. Feminists argue that previously the practice of assigning masculine gender to generic antecedents stemmed from language reflecting \"the prejudices of the society in which it evolved, and English evolved through most of its history in a male-centered, patriarchal society.\" During the 1970s, feminists Casey Miller and Kate Swift created a manual, \"The Handbook of Nonsexist Writing\", on gender neutral language that was set to reform the existing sexist language that was said to exclude and dehumanize women. In the 1980s, many feminist efforts were made to reform the androcentric language. It has become common in some academic and governmental settings to rely on gender-neutral language to convey inclusion of all sexes or genders (gender-inclusive language). \n\nVarious languages employ different means to achieve gender neutrality:\n\nOther particular issues are also discussed:\n\nThere are different approaches in forming a \"gender-neutral language\":\n\nExamples of gender indication in occupational titles:\n\n"}
{"id": "2278861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2278861", "title": "General Chinese", "text": "General Chinese\n\nGeneral Chinese ( \"Tung-dzih\") is a diaphonemic orthography invented by Yuen Ren Chao to represent the pronunciations of all major varieties of Chinese simultaneously. It is \"the most complete genuine Chinese diasystem yet published\". It can also be used for the Korean, Japanese, and Vietnamese pronunciations of Chinese characters, and challenges the claim that Chinese characters are required for interdialectal communication in written Chinese.\n\nGeneral Chinese is not specifically a romanization system, but two alternative systems: one (\"Tung-dzih Xonn-dzih\") uses Chinese characters phonetically, as a syllabary of 2082 glyphs, and the other (\"Tung-dzih Lo-maa-dzih\") is an alphabetic romanization system with similar sound values and tone spellings to Gwoyeu Romatzyh.\n\nThe character version of General Chinese uses distinct characters for any traditional characters that are distinguished phonemically in any of the control varieties of Chinese, which consist of several dialects of Mandarin, Wu, Min, Hakka, and Yue. That is, a single syllabic character will only correspond to more than one logographic character when these are homonyms in all control dialects. In effect, General Chinese is a syllabic reconstruction of the pronunciation of Middle Chinese, less distinctions which have been dropped nearly everywhere.\n\nThe result is a syllabary of 2082 syllables, about 80% of which are single morphemes—that is, in 80% of cases there is no difference between GC and standard written Chinese, and in running text, that figure rises to 90–95%, as the most common morphemes tend to be uniquely identified. For example, \"kai\" can only mean 開 \"kāi\" 'open', and \"sam\" can only mean 三 \"sān\" 'three'. Chao notes, \"These syllables then are morphemes, or words with definite meanings, or clusters of meanings related by extensions. About 20 percent of the syllables are homophones under each of which there will be more than one morpheme, [which are traditionally] usually written with different characters [...] The degree of homophony is so low that it will be possible to write text either in literary or colloquial Chinese with the same character for each syllable [...] as has been tested in texts of various styles.\" Chao compares General Chinese to how Chinese was written when the writing system was still productive: \"This amounts to a 100 percent use of writing Chinese by 'phonetic loan' [...] The situation is that when the ancients wrote a character by sound regardless of meaning, it was a 'loan character', whereas if a modern schoolboy writes one, he is punished for writing the wrong character!\"\n\nTaking a telegraphic code-book of about 10,000 characters as a representative list of characters in modern use, Chao notes that General Chinese results in a reduction of 80% in the number of characters needing to be learned.\n\nIn the 20% of cases where a syllable corresponded to more than one word, Chao generally selected the graphically most basic traditional character for General Chinese, as long as it wasn't unduly rare. However, when that character had strong semantic connotations that would have interfered with a phonetic reading, he selected a more neutral character. This phenomenon is familiar from Chinese transcriptions of foreign names.\n\nRomanized General Chinese has distinct symbols for the onsets (many of them digraphs, and a few trigraphs) and the rimes distinguished by any of the control dialects. For example, it retains the final consonants \"p, t, k\", and the distinction between final \"m\" and \"n\", as these are found in several modern dialects, such as Cantonese. General Chinese also maintains the \"round-sharp\" distinction, such as \"sia\" vs. \"hia\", though those are both \"xia\" in Beijing Mandarin. It also indicates the \"muddy\" (voiced) stops of Shanghainese. Indeed, Chao characterized GC as having \"the initial consonants of the Wu dialects [...], the vowels of Mandarin, and the endings of Cantonese. It can, however, be pronounced in any dialect, and it is meant to be, by a relatively short list of rules of pronunciation.\"\n\nLike Chao's other invention, Gwoyeu Romatzyh, romanized General Chinese uses tone spelling. However, the system is somewhat different. The difference between the \"yin\" and \"yang\" tones is indicated by the voicing of the initial consonant, which is possible because the original voicing distinctions are retained. Given that some tones are indicated by changing rather than adding letters, writing tone requires on average only one additional letter for every three syllables of text.\n\nThe digraphs are not reliably featural; for example, the digraphs for the voiced stops do not all follow the same pattern. This is because Chao ran frequency tests, and used single letters for the most common consonants and vowels, while restricting digraphs and trigraphs to the more infrequent ones. Overall, syllables in the texts he transliterated averaged under 3½ letters apiece.\n\nAn example of Romanized General Chinese can be illustrated with Chao's name:\n\nAll the General Chinese initials here are voiced: The \"h\" in \"dh\" shows that this is a \"muddy\" consonant, and the \"q\" in \"qiuan\" represents an initial \"ng-\" (becoming \"g\" in Japanese). This voicing shows up in the Cantonese \"yang\" tones, which are represented by aitches in Yale romanization. \"Heavy\" codas, such as \"remm\", indicate the \"departing\" (去) tone, as in Gwoyeu Romatzyh. Similarly, the spelling \"ao\" in \"dhyao\" indicates the \"rising\" (上) tone, but because of the voiced initial, it merges with \"departing\" in Mandarin and literary Cantonese (though not in colloquial Cantonese). The \"y\" in \"dhyao\" indicates that the initial is a stop in Min, Japanese, and Vietnamese, but otherwise an affricate. Cantonese and Korean retain the final \"m\" of \"remm\". These pronunciations are all predictable given the General Chinese transcription, though it was not designed with the Sinospheric languages specifically in mind. Both the pre-war and post-war Japanese orthographies are recoverable.\n\nIn every control dialect, some syllables with different spellings will be pronounced the same. However, which these are differs from dialect to dialect. There are some irregular correlations: Often a particular variety will have a pronunciation for a syllable that is not what one would expect from other syllables with similar spellings, due to irregular developments in that variety. This is especially true with the voicing of Japanese consonants, which has evolved idiosyncratically in different compound words. However, except for Japanese voicing, the system is phonetic about 90% of the time.\n\nA common argument for retaining Chinese characters is that romanization systems are insufficient to unambiguously represent the Chinese language, due to the large number of homonyms. (However, the Chinese military has found pinyin to be sufficient to telegraph military communications, even without indicating tone.) Because General Chinese makes many distinctions that Pinyin does not, it has many fewer homonyms to confuse the reader. Combine this with the fact that many traditional Chinese characters are restricted to specific compounds, and that many homonymic characters distinguish meanings of what are historically the same word, and which are therefore understandable in context, Chao believed that General Chinese begins to approach the effectiveness of traditional characters in representing Chinese.\n\nCharacter GC has a separate character for each syllable. However, romanized GC has distinct onsets and rhymes. The onsets are as follows:\n\n泥 and 娘 are both transcribed , as these are not distinct in modern dialects. 喻, a conflation of two older initials, 云 \"hy~hw\" and 以 \"y~w\", is transcribed or ∅ according to modern rather than ancient forms; when palatalization is lost, it is transcribed . The palatal and retroflex fricatives 照穿牀審禪 fell together early on in the rime tables of Classical Chinese, but are still distinguished in some modern dialects, and so are distinguished here. The convention for nasal 疑, which drops in many dialects, is repeated in the finals, where it represents with a departing tone.\n\nAlthough to some extent systematic—the retroflex series are digraphs ending in , for example—this is overridden in many cases by the principle of using short transcriptions for common sounds. Thus is used for 精 rather than for the less common 邪, where it might also be expected; is used for frequent 微 rather than for 奉; and and , for the high-frequency 見 and 羣, have the additional benefit of being familiar in their palatalized forms (Peking ~ Beijing for example is -) from English words like \"cello\" and \"gem.\"\n\nThe voiced obstruents (the 濁 \"muddy\" column) are only distinct in Wu dialects. In Min, they are collapsed with the consonants of the tenuis column. Elsewhere they are generally collapsed with the aspirated column in the even tone, and with the tenuis column in other tones. An exception is Cantonese, where in the rising tone they are aspirated in colloquial speech, but tenuis in reading pronunciations. The sonorants do not vary much apart from , , which in Wu are nasals colloquially but fricatives when read.\n\nVelars , , are palatalized to affricates before , (the high-front vowels ) apart from Min and Yue, where they remain stops before all vowels; , also palatalize, but remain fricatives. For instance in Mandarin, they are \"g, k, h\" before non-palatalizing vowels and \"j, q, x\" before palatalizing vowels, whereas in Cantonese they remain \"g, k, h\" everywhere. (Compare the alternate spellings of \"Beijing\" and \"Peking\".) The alveolar sibilants , , , , (Mandarin \"z, c, s\") are also generally palatalized before , (to Mandarin \"j, q, x\"), collapsing with the palatalized velars , , , , in dialects which have lost the \"round-sharp\" distinction so important to Peking opera.\n\nThe palatal stops , , remain stops only in Min among the Chinese lects (though also in Japanese and Vietnamese loan words); elsewhere they are conflated with the affricates. The palatal and retroflex sibilants are generally conflated; in Yue and Min, as well as in much of Wu and Mandarin, they are further conflated with the alveolar sibilants. This contrast remains in Beijing, where 'three' is distinct from 'mountain'; both are in Sichuanese and Taiwanese Mandarin.\n\nThere are numerous more sporadic correlations. For instance, the alveolar affricates , , become stops in Taishan Yue, whereas the alveolar stops are debuccalized to , as in \"Hoisaan\" for Cantonese \"Toisaan\" (Taishan). In Yüchi, Yunnan, it is the velars , , which are debuccalized, to . In the Min dialects, , become or . In Xi'an Mandarin, the fricatives , , , are rounded to before rounded vowels, as in 'water' (Beijing \"shuǐ\" ).\n\nThe categories of the Late Middle Chinese rime tables are reduced to the four medials of modern Chinese, plus an intermediate type :\n\n⟨i⟩ and ⟨iu⟩ are omitted after labiodental initials.\n\nThe medial is used for syllables which have a palatalizing medial in Mandarin, but no medial in Yue. That is, in Mandarin should be read as , with the same effect on consonants as has, whereas in Cantonese it is silent. In Shanghainese both situations occur: is equivalent to in reading pronunciations, as or , but is not found in colloquial speech.\n\nIn Cantonese, medial can be ignored after sibilants, as palatalization has been lost in these series. That is, \"siao, shao\" are read the same.\n\nChao uses the following rimes. They do not always correspond to the Middle Chinese rimes.\n\nRimes consist of a nucleus (the main vowel) and optionally a coda. They need to be considered as a unit because of a strong historical interaction between vowel and coda in Chinese dialects. The following combinations occur (note that the vowel is treated as medial plus nucleus ):\n\nThe most salient dialectal difference in rimes is perhaps the lack of the obstruent codas , , in most dialects of Mandarin and independently in the Wencheng dialect of Oujiang, though this has traditionally been seen as a loss of \"tone\" (see below). In Wu, Min (generally), New Xiang (Hunanese), Jin, and in the Lower Yangtze and Minjiang dialects of Mandarin, these codas conflate to glottal stop . In others, such as Gan, they are reduced to , while Yue dialects, Hakka, and Old Xiang maintain the original system.\n\nNasal codas are also reduced in many dialects. Mandarin and Wu do not distinguish between and , with them being reduced to or nasal vowels, or in some cases dropped altogether. In Shanghainese many instances of have conflated as well, or been dropped, but a phonemic distinction is maintained.\n\nIn Mandarin, an additional coda is found, \"-er\" , from GC .\n\nIn Cantonese, the simple vowels \"i u iu o a e\" are , apart from and after velars, which open to diphthongs, as in \"ci\" and \"ciu\" . Diphthongs may vary markedly depending on initial and medial, as in \"cau\" , \"ceau\" , \"ciau\" , though both \"ceu ~ cieu\" are , following the general pattern of before a coda (cf. \"cen\" vs \"can\" ). Cantonese does not have medials, apart from \"gw, kw\", though sometimes it is the nuclear vowel which drops: \"giung\" , \"xiong\" , but \"giuan\" .\n\nThe following combinations of orthographic medials and rimes occur, taking \"-iu\" to be medial \"i\" + rime \"u\" :\nDouble cells show discrepancies between analysis and orthography. For instance, Chao analyzes \"ieng, iueng\" as part of the \"aeng\" series rather than the \"eng\" series, and \"ien\" as part of the \"an\" series. Though not apparent from the chart, \"eng-ing-ueng-iuing\", \"ung-ong-iung-iong\", and \"en-in-un-iun\" are similar series. The discrepancies are due to an effort to keep frequent syllables short: \"en-in-un-iun\" rather than \"*en-ien-uen-iuen\", for example; as well as a reflection of some of the more widespread phonological changes in the rimes.\n\nThe Classical correspondences, with many archaic distinctions lost, are as follows:\n\nThese all occur in the velar-initial series, but not all in the others.\n\nIn Cantonese, after coronal stops and sibilants, rounded finals such as \"-on\" and \"-uan\" produce front rounded vowels, as in \"don\" , and after velars, \"iung\" and \"iong\" lose their . \nMin dialects are similar, but in certain tones and become diphthongs rather that their usual . For example, in Fuzhou, even-tone 星 \"sieng\" is but going-tone 性 \"sieq\" is .\n\nIn Yunnan Mandarin, is pronounced as , so that the name of the province, \"yunnom\", is rather than as in Beijing.\n\nIn Nanking, metathesizes to after alveolars, as in 天 for Beijing \"tian\" .\n\nThe basic spelling is used for the even 平 tone(s). For the rising 上 tone(s), the nucleus is doubled (with the vowel → , as that is treated as medial + nucleus ), or the coda is changed to a 'lighter' letter. For the going 去 tone(s), the coda is made 'heavier'; if there is no coda, add . For the entering 入 tone(s), a stop coda is used.\n\n'Lighter' means that a vowel coda is made more open ( → , → ); 'heavier' means that a vowel coda is made more close ( → , → ) and a nasal coda (, ) is doubled. The nasal is 'lightened' to (as in many Polynesian languages) and made heavier as (as in the GC initial):\n\nOne consequence of this is that the rimes \"-e\" and \"-ei\" in the even tone conflate to in the rising tone. However, since there are no such syllables which begin with the same consonant and medial, no syllables are actually conflated.\n\nThe difference between \"yin\" and \"yang\" tones is indicated by the voicing of the consonant. A zero consonant is treated as voiceless (it is sometimes reconstructed as a glottal stop), so \"i, iem, uon, iuan\" are \"ping yin\" (Mandarin \"yī, yān, wān, yuān\"), whereas \"yi, yem, won, yuan\" are \"ping yang\" (Mandarin \"yí, yán, wán, yuán\"). In a few cases, the effect that voiced , , , have on tone needs to be negated to achieve a \"ping yin\" tone. This is accomplished by spelling them , , , .\n\nTo mark the toneless Mandarin syllable \"ma\", a centered dot is used: . The dot is omitted for toneless , as tonic \"me, de, te, ne, le\" do not exist.\n\nThe realization of the tones in the various varieties of Chinese is generally predictable; see Four tones for details. In Beijing Mandarin, for example, even tone is split according to voicing, with muddy consonants becoming aspirates: \"ba, pa, ma, bha\" → \"bā, pā, má, pá\" (and \"mha\" → \"mā\"). Going tone is not split, and muddy consonants become tenuis: \"bah, pah, mah, bhah\" → \"bà, pà, mà, bà.\" Rising tone splits, not along voicing, but with muddy-consonant syllables conflating with going tone: \"baa, paa, maa, bhaa\" → \"bǎ, pǎ, mǎ, bà\". That is, \"bhaa\" and \"bhah\" are homonyms in Beijing, as indeed they are in all of Mandarin, in Wu apart from Wenzhounese, in Hakka, and in reading pronunciations of Cantonese. Entering tone is likewise split in Beijing: \"mat, bhat\" → \"mà, bá\".\n\nHowever, the realization of entering tones in Beijing dialect, and thus in Standard Chinese, is not predictable when a syllable has a voiceless initial such as \"bat\" or \"pat\". In such cases even syllables with the same GC spelling may have different tones in Beijing, though they remain homonyms in other Mandarin dialects, such as Xian and Sichuanese. This is due to historical dialect-mixing in the Chinese capital that resulted in unavoidably idiosyncratic correspondences.\n\nIn Yue, there is a straightforward split according to consonant voicing, with a postvocalic in Yale romanization for the latter. Muddy onsets become aspirates in even and rising tones, but tenuis in going and entering tones: \"ba, pa, ma, bha\" → \"bā, pā, māh, pāh\"; \"baa, paa, maa, bhaa\" → \"bá, pá, máh, páh\"; \"bah, pah, mah, bhah\" → \"ba, pa, mah, bah\"; \"bat, pat, mat, bhat\" → \"baat, paat, maht, baht\". In addition, there is a split in entering tone according to vowel length, with Cantonese mid-entering tone for short vowels like \"bāt, pāt\". In reading pronunciations, however, rising tone syllables with muddy onsets are treated as going tone: \"bhaa\" → \"bah\" rather than → \"páh\". There is also an unpredictable split in the even \"ping yin\" tone which indicates diminutives or a change in part of speech, but this is not written in all Cantonese romanizations (it is written in Yale, but not in Jyutping).\n\nChao provided this poem as an example. The character text is no different in GC and standard Chinese, apart from 裏 \"lǐ\", which in any case has now been substituted with Chao's choice of 里 on the Mainland. Note that simplified characters like this would affect all of Chao's proposal, so that 對 below would become 对, etc. The only other difference is 他 \"tā\" for 'her', which may differ from contemporary written Chinese 她, but which follows Classical usage. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "185259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185259", "title": "Germ theory of disease", "text": "Germ theory of disease\n\nThe germ theory of disease is the currently accepted scientific theory of disease. It states that many diseases are caused by microorganisms. These small organisms, too small to see without magnification, invade humans, animals, and other living hosts. Their growth and reproduction within their hosts can cause a disease. \"Germ\" may refer to not just a bacterium but to any type of microorganism, especially one which causes disease, such as protists, fungi, viruses, prions, or viroids. Microorganisms that cause disease are called pathogens, and the diseases they cause are called infectious diseases. Even when a pathogen is the principal cause of a disease, environmental and hereditary factors often influence the severity of the disease, and whether a potential host individual becomes infected when exposed to the pathogen.\n\nThe germ theory was proposed by Girolamo Fracastoro in 1546, and expanded upon by Marcus von Plenciz in 1762. Such views were held in disdain, however, and Galen's miasma theory remained dominant among scientists and doctors. The nature of this doctrine prevented them from understanding how diseases actually progressed, with predictable consequences. By the early nineteenth century, smallpox vaccination was commonplace in Europe, though doctors were unaware of how it worked or how to extend the principle to other diseases. Similar treatments had been prevalent in India from just before AD 1000. A transitional period began in the late 1850s with the work of Louis Pasteur. This work was later extended by Robert Koch in the 1880s. By the end of the 1880s the miasma theory was struggling to compete with the germ theory of disease. Eventually, a \"golden era\" of bacteriology ensued, during which the theory quickly led to the identification of the actual organisms that cause many diseases. Viruses were discovered in the 1890s.\n\nThe miasma theory was the predominant theory of disease transmission before the germ theory took hold towards the end of the 19th century. It held that diseases such as cholera, chlamydia infection, or the Black Death were caused by a \"miasma\" (μίασμα, Ancient Greek: \"pollution\"), a noxious form of \"bad air\" emanating from rotting organic matter. Miasma was considered to be a poisonous vapor or mist filled with particles from decomposed matter (miasmata) that was identifiable by its foul smell. The theory posited that diseases were the product of environmental factors such as contaminated water, foul air, and poor hygienic conditions. Such infections, according to the theory, were not passed between individuals but would affect those within a locale that gave rise to such vapors.\n\nIn Antiquity, the Greek historian Thucydides (c. 460 – c. 400 BC) was the first person to state, in his account of the plague of Athens, that diseases could spread from an infected person to others. One theory of the spread of contagious diseases that were not spread by direct contact was that they were spread by \"seeds\" (Latin: \"semina\") that were present in the air. In his poem, \"De rerum natura\" (On the Nature of Things, ca. 56 BC), the Roman poet Lucretius (ca. 99 BC – ca. 55 BC) stated that the world contained various \"seeds\", some of which could sicken a person if they were inhaled or if they contaminated his food. The Roman statesman Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC) wrote, in his \"Rerum rusticarum libri III\" (Three Books on Agriculture, 36 BC): \"Precautions must also be taken in the neighborhood of swamps […] because there are bred certain minute creatures which cannot be seen by the eyes, which float in the air and enter the body through the mouth and nose and there cause serious diseases.\" The Greek physician Galen (AD 129 – ca. 200/ca. 216) speculated in his \"On Initial Causes\" (ca. AD 175) that some patients might have \"seeds of fever\". In his \"On the Different Types of Fever\" (ca. AD 175), Galen speculated that plagues were spread by \"certain seeds of plague\", which were present in the air. And in his \"Epidemics\" (ca. AD 176–178), Galen explained that patients might relapse during recovery from a fever because some \"seed of the disease\" lurked in their bodies, which would cause a recurrence of the disease if the patients didn't follow a physician's therapeutic regimen.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Isidore of Seville (ca. 560 – 636) mentioned \"plague-bearing seeds\" (\"pestifera semina\") in his \"On the Nature of Things\" (ca. AD 613). Later in 1345, Tommaso del Garbo (ca. 1305–1370) of Bologna, Italy mentioned Galen's \"seeds of plague\" in his work \"Commentaria non parum utilia in libros Galeni\" (Helpful commentaries on the books of Galen).\n\nThe Italian scholar and physician Girolamo Fracastoro proposed in 1546 in his book \"De Contagione et Contagiosis Morbis\" that epidemic diseases are caused by transferable seed-like entities (\"seminaria morbi\") that transmit infection by direct or indirect contact, or even without contact over long distances. The diseases were categorised based on how they were transmitted, and how long they could lie dormant.\n\nItalian physician Francesco Redi provided early evidence against spontaneous generation. He devised an experiment in 1668 in which he used three jars. He placed a meatloaf and egg in each of the three jars. He had one of the jars open, another one tightly sealed, and the last one covered with gauze. After a few days, he observed that the meatloaf in the open jar was covered by maggots, and the jar covered with gauze had maggots on the surface of the gauze. However, the tightly sealed jar had no maggots inside or outside it. He also noticed that the maggots were found only on surfaces that were accessible by flies. From this he concluded that spontaneous generation is not a plausible theory.\n\nMicroorganisms are said to have been first directly observed in the 1670s by Anton van Leeuwenhoek, an early pioneer in microbiology. Yet Athanasius Kircher may have done so prior. When Rome was struck by the bubonic plague in 1656, Kircher spent days on end caring for the sick. Searching for a cure, Kircher observed microorganisms under the microscope and invented the germ theory of disease, which he outlined in his \"Scrutinium pestis physico-medicum\" (Rome 1658). Building on Leeuwenhoek's work, physician Nicolas Andry argued in 1700 that microorganisms he called \"worms\" were responsible for smallpox and other diseases.\n\nIn 1720, Richard Bradley theorised that the plague and 'all pestilential distempers' were caused by 'poisonous insects', living creatures viewable only with the help of microscopes.\n\nIn 1762, the Austrian physician Marcus Antonius von Plenciz (1705-1786) published a book titled \"Opera medico-physica\". It outlined a theory of contagion stating that specific 'animalculae' in the soil and the air were responsible for causing specific diseases. Von Plenciz noted the distinction between diseases which are both epidemic and contagious (like measles and dysentry), and diseases which are contagious but not epidemic (like rabies and leprosy). The book cites Anton van Leeuwenhoek to show how ubiquitous such animalculae are, and was unique for describing the presence of germs in ulcerating wounds. Ultimately, the theory espoused by von Plenciz was not accepted by the scientific community.\n\nThe Italian Agostino Bassi was the first person to prove that a disease was caused by a microorganism when he conducted a series of experiments between 1808 and 1813, demonstrating that a \"vegetable parasite\" caused a disease in silkworms known as \"calcinaccio\"this disease was devastating the French silk industry at the time. The \"vegetable parasite\" is now known to be a fungus pathogenic to insects called \"Beauveria bassiana\" (named after Bassi).\n\nIgnaz Semmelweis, a Hungarian obstetrician working at the Vienna General Hospital (\"Allgemeines Krankenhaus\") in 1847, noticed the dramatically high maternal mortality from puerperal fever following births assisted by doctors and medical students. However, those attended by midwives were relatively safe. Investigating further, Semmelweis made the connection between puerperal fever and examinations of delivering women by doctors, and further realized that these physicians had usually come directly from autopsies. Asserting that puerperal fever was a contagious disease and that matter from autopsies were implicated in its development, Semmelweis made doctors wash their hands with chlorinated lime water before examining pregnant women. He then documented a sudden reduction in the mortality rate from 18% to 2.2% over a period of a year. Despite this evidence, he and his theories were rejected by most of the contemporary medical establishment.\n\nGideon Mantell, the Sussex doctor more famous for discovering dinosaur fossils, spent time with his microscope, and speculated in his \"Thoughts On Animalcules\" (1850) that perhaps \"many of the most serious maladies which afflict humanity, are produced by peculiar states of invisible animalcular life\".\n\nJohn Snow was a skeptic of the then-dominant miasma theory. Even though the germ theory of disease pioneered by Girolamo Fracastoro had not yet achieved full development or widespread currency, Snow demonstrated a clear understanding of germ theory in his writings. He first published his theory in an 1849 essay \"On the Mode of Communication of Cholera,\" in which he correctly suggested that the fecal-oral route was the mode of communication, and that the disease replicated itself in the lower intestines. He even proposed in his 1855 edition of the work, that the structure of cholera was that of a cell.\n\nSnow's 1849 recommendation that water be \"filtered and boiled before it is used\" is one of the first practical applications of germ theory in the area of public health and is the antecedent to the modern boil-water advisory.\n\nIn 1855 he published a second edition of his article, documenting his more elaborate investigation of the effect of the water supply in the Soho, London epidemic of 1854.\n\nBy talking to local residents, he identified the source of the outbreak as the public water pump on Broad Street (now Broadwick Street). Although Snow's chemical and microscope examination of a water sample from the Broad Street pump did not conclusively prove its danger, his studies of the pattern of the disease were convincing enough to persuade the local council to disable the well pump by removing its handle. This action has been commonly credited as ending the outbreak, but Snow observed that the epidemic may have already been in rapid decline.\n\nSnow later used a dot map to illustrate the cluster of cholera cases around the pump. He also used statistics to illustrate the connection between the quality of the water source and cholera cases. He showed that the Southwark and Vauxhall Waterworks Company was taking water from sewage-polluted sections of the Thames and delivering the water to homes, leading to an increased incidence of cholera. Snow's study was a major event in the history of public health and geography. It is regarded as one of the founding events of the science of epidemiology.\n\nLater, researchers discovered that this public well had been dug only three feet from an old cesspit, which had begun to leak fecal bacteria. The diapers of a baby, who had contracted cholera from another source, had been washed into this cesspit. Its opening was originally under a nearby house, which had been rebuilt farther away after a fire. The city had widened the street and the cesspit was lost. It was common at the time to have a cesspit under most homes. Most families tried to have their raw sewage collected and dumped in the Thames to prevent their cesspit from filling faster than the sewage could decompose into the soil.\n\nAfter the cholera epidemic had subsided, government officials replaced the handle on the Broad Street pump. They had responded only to the urgent threat posed to the population, and afterward they rejected Snow's theory. To accept his proposal would have meant accepting the fecal-oral method transmission of disease, which they dismissed.\n\nThe more formal experiments on the relationship between germ and disease were conducted by Louis Pasteur between the year 1860 and 1864. He discovered the pathology of the puerperal fever and the pyogenic vibrio in the blood, and suggested using boric acid to kill these microorganisms before and after confinement.\n\nPasteur further demonstrated between 1860 and 1864 that fermentation and the growth of microorganisms in nutrient broths did not proceed by spontaneous generation. He exposed freshly boiled broth to air in vessels that contained a filter to stop all particles passing through to the growth medium, and even with no filter at all, with air being admitted via a long tortuous tube that would not pass dust particles. Nothing grew in the broths: therefore the living organisms that grew in such broths came from outside, as spores on dust, rather than being generated within the broth.\n\nPasteur discovered that another serious disease of silkworms, \"pébrine\", was caused by a small microscopic organism now known as \"Nosema bombycis\" (1870). Pasteur saved France's silk industry by developing a method to screen silkworms eggs for those that were not infected, a method that is still used today to control this and other silkworm diseases.\n\nRobert Koch is known for developing four basic criteria (known as Koch's postulates) for demonstrating, in a scientifically sound manner, that a disease is caused by a particular organism. These postulates grew out of his seminal work with anthrax using purified cultures of the pathogen that had been isolated from diseased animals.\n\nKoch's postulates were developed in the 19th century as general guidelines to identify pathogens that could be isolated with the techniques of the day. Even in Koch's time, it was recognized that some infectious agents were clearly responsible for disease even though they did not fulfill all of the postulates. Attempts to rigidly apply Koch's postulates to the diagnosis of viral diseases in the late 19th century, at a time when viruses could not be seen or isolated in culture, may have impeded the early development of the field of virology. Currently, a number of infectious agents are accepted as the cause of disease despite their not fulfilling all of Koch's postulates. Therefore, while Koch's postulates retain historical importance and continue to inform the approach to microbiologic diagnosis, fulfillment of all four postulates is not required to demonstrate causality.\n\nKoch's postulates have also influenced scientists who examine microbial pathogenesis from a molecular point of view. In the 1980s, a molecular version of Koch's postulates was developed to guide the identification of microbial genes encoding virulence factors.\n\nKoch's postulates:\n\nHowever, Koch abandoned the universalist requirement of the first postulate altogether when he discovered asymptomatic carriers of cholera and, later, of typhoid fever. Asymptomatic or subclinical infection carriers are now known to be a common feature of many infectious diseases, especially viruses such as polio, herpes simplex, HIV, and hepatitis C. As a specific example, all doctors and virologists agree that poliovirus causes paralysis in just a few infected subjects, and the success of the polio vaccine in preventing disease supports the conviction that the poliovirus is the causative agent.\n\nThe third postulate specifies \"should\", not \"must\", because as Koch himself proved in regard to both tuberculosis and cholera, not all organisms exposed to an infectious agent will acquire the infection. Noninfection may be due to such factors as general health and proper immune functioning; acquired immunity from previous exposure or vaccination; or genetic immunity, as with the resistance to malaria conferred by possessing at least one sickle cell allele.\n\nThe second postulate may also be suspended for certain microorganisms or entities that cannot (at the present time) be grown in pure culture, such as prions responsible for Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease.\nIn summary, a body of evidence that satisfies Koch's postulates is sufficient but not necessary to establish causation.\n\nIn the 1870s, Joseph Lister was instrumental in developing practical applications of the germ theory of disease with respect to sanitation in medical settings and aseptic surgical techniques—partly through the use of carbolic acid (phenol) as an antiseptic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "70402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70402", "title": "Gestalt psychology", "text": "Gestalt psychology\n\nGestalt psychology or gestaltism (; from \"shape, form\") is a philosophy of mind of the Berlin School of experimental psychology. Gestalt psychology is an attempt to understand the laws behind the ability to acquire and maintain meaningful perceptions in an apparently chaotic world. The central principle of gestalt psychology is that the mind forms a global whole with self-organizing tendencies.\n\nThis principle maintains that when the human mind (perceptual system) forms a percept or \"gestalt\", the whole has a reality of its own, independent of the parts. The original famous phrase of Gestalt psychologist Kurt Koffka, \"the whole is \"something else\" than the sum of its parts\" is often incorrectly translated as \"The whole is \"greater\" than the sum of its parts\", and thus used when explaining gestalt theory, and further incorrectly applied to systems theory. Koffka did not like the translation. He firmly corrected students who replaced \"other\" with \"greater\". \"This is not a principle of addition\" he said. The whole has an independent existence.\n\nIn the study of perception, Gestalt psychologists stipulate that perceptions are the products of complex interactions among various stimuli. Contrary to the behaviorist approach to focusing on stimulus and response, gestalt psychologists sought to understand the \"organization\" of cognitive processes (Carlson and Heth, 2010). Our brain is capable of generating whole forms, particularly with respect to the visual recognition of global figures instead of just collections of simpler and unrelated elements (points, lines, curves, etc.).\n\nIn psychology, gestaltism is often opposed to structuralism. Gestalt theory, it is proposed, allows for the deconstruction of the whole situation into its elements.\n\nThe concept of gestalt was first introduced in philosophy and psychology in 1890 by Christian von Ehrenfels (a member of the School of Brentano). The idea of gestalt has its roots in theories by David Hume, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe, Immanuel Kant, David Hartley, and Ernst Mach. Max Wertheimer's unique contribution was to insist that the \"gestalt\" is perceptually primary, defining the parts it was composed from, rather than being a secondary quality that emerges from those parts, as von Ehrenfels's earlier \"Gestalt-Qualität\" had been.\n\nBoth von Ehrenfels and Edmund Husserl seem to have been inspired by Mach's work \"Beiträge zur Analyse der Empfindungen\" (Contributions to the Analysis of Sensations, 1886), in formulating their very similar concepts of \"gestalt\" and \"figural moment\", respectively. On the philosophical foundations of these ideas see Foundations of Gestalt Theory (Smith, ed., 1988).\n\nEarly 20th century theorists, such as Kurt Koffka, Max Wertheimer, and Wolfgang Köhler (students of Carl Stumpf) saw objects as perceived within an environment according to all of their elements taken together as a global construct. This 'gestalt' or 'whole form' approach sought to define principles of perception—seemingly innate mental laws that determined the way objects were perceived. It is based on the here and now, and in the way things are seen. Images can be divided into figure or ground. The question is what is perceived at first glance: the figure in front, or the background.\n\nThese laws took several forms, such as the grouping of similar, or proximate, objects together, within this global process. Although gestalt has been criticized for being merely descriptive, it has formed the basis of much further research into the perception of patterns and objects (Carlson et al. 2000), and of research into behavior, thinking, problem solving and psychopathology.\n\nThe founders of Gestalt therapy, Fritz and Laura Perls, had worked with Kurt Goldstein, a neurologist who had applied principles of Gestalt psychology to the functioning of the organism. Laura Perls had been a Gestalt psychologist before she became a psychoanalyst and before she began developing Gestalt therapy together with Fritz Perls. The extent to which Gestalt psychology influenced Gestalt therapy is disputed, however. In any case it is not identical with Gestalt psychology. On the one hand, Laura Perls preferred not to use the term \"Gestalt\" to name the emerging new therapy, because she thought that the gestalt psychologists would object to it; on the other hand Fritz and Laura Perls clearly adopted some of Goldstein's work. Thus, though recognizing the historical connection and the influence, most gestalt psychologists emphasize that gestalt therapy is not a form of gestalt psychology.\n\nMary Henle noted in her presidential address to Division 24 at the meeting of the American Psychological Association (1975): \"What Perls has done has been to take a few terms from Gestalt psychology, stretch their meaning beyond recognition, mix them with notions—often unclear and often incompatible—from the depth psychologies, existentialism, and common sense, and he has called the whole mixture gestalt therapy. His work has no substantive relation to scientific Gestalt psychology. To use his own language, Fritz Perls has done 'his thing'; whatever it is, it is \"not\" Gestalt psychology\" With her analysis however, she restricts herself explicitly to only three of Perls' books from 1969 and 1972, leaving out Perls' earlier work, and Gestalt therapy in general as a psychotherapy method.\n\nThere have been clinical applications of Gestalt psychology in the psychotherapeutic field long before Perls'ian Gestalt therapy, in group psychoanalysis (Foulkes), Adlerian individual psychology, by Gestalt psychologists in psychotherapy like Erwin Levy, Abraham S. Luchins, by Gestalt psychologically oriented psychoanalysts in Italy (Canestrari and others), and there have been newer developments foremost in Europe, e.g. Gestalt theoretical psychotherapy.\n\nThe school of gestalt practiced a series of theoretical and methodological principles that attempted to redefine the approach to psychological research. This is in contrast to investigations developed at the beginning of the 20th century, based on traditional scientific methodology, which divided the object of study into a set of elements that could be analyzed separately with the objective of reducing the complexity of this object.\n\nThe theoretical principles are the following:\n\nBased on the principles above the following methodological principles are defined:\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, laboratory research in neurology and what became known as cybernetics on the mechanism of frogs' eyes indicate that perception of 'gestalts' (in particular gestalts \"in motion\") is perhaps more primitive and fundamental than 'seeing' as such:\n\nThe key principles of gestalt systems are emergence, reification, multistability and invariance.\n\nThis is demonstrated by the \"dog picture\", which depicts a Dalmatian dog sniffing the ground in the shade of overhanging trees. The dog is not recognized by first identifying its parts (feet, ears, nose, tail, etc.), and then inferring the dog from those component parts. Instead, the dog appears as a whole, all at once. Gestalt theory does not have an explanation for how this perception of a dog appears.\n\nReification is the \"constructive\" or \"generative\" aspect of perception, by which the experienced percept contains more explicit spatial information than the sensory stimulus on which it is based.\n\nFor instance, a triangle is perceived in picture A, though no triangle is there. In pictures B and D the eye recognizes disparate shapes as \"belonging\" to a single shape, in C a complete three-dimensional shape is seen, where in actuality no such thing is drawn.\n\nReification can be explained by progress in the study of illusory contours, which are treated by the visual system as \"real\" contours.\n\nMultistability (or multistable perception) is the tendency of ambiguous perceptual experiences to pop back and forth unstably between two or more alternative interpretations. This is seen, for example, in the Necker cube and Rubin's Figure/Vase illusion shown here. Other examples include the three-legged blivet and artist M. C. Escher's artwork and the appearance of flashing marquee lights moving first one direction and then suddenly the other. Again, gestalt does not explain \"how\" images appear multistable, only that they \"do\".\n\nInvariance is the property of perception whereby simple geometrical objects are recognized independent of rotation, translation, and scale; as well as several other variations such as elastic deformations, different lighting, and different component features. For example, the objects in A in the figure are all immediately recognized as the same basic shape, which are immediately distinguishable from the forms in B. They are even recognized despite perspective and elastic deformations as in C, and when depicted using different graphic elements as in D. Computational theories of vision, such as those by David Marr, have provided alternate explanations of how perceived objects are classified.\n\nEmergence, reification, multistability, and invariance are not necessarily separable modules to model individually, but they could be different aspects of a single unified dynamic mechanism.\nThe fundamental principle of gestalt perception is the law of \"\" (in the German language, \"pithiness\"), which says that we tend to order our experience in a manner that is regular, orderly, symmetrical, and simple. Gestalt psychologists attempt to discover refinements of the law of \"prägnanz\", and this involves writing down laws that, hypothetically, allow us to predict the interpretation of sensation, what are often called \"gestalt laws\".\n\nA major aspect of Gestalt psychology is that it implies that the mind understands external stimuli as whole rather than the sum of their parts. The wholes are structured and organized using grouping laws. The various laws are called \"laws\" or \"principles\", depending on the paper where they appear—but for simplicity's sake, this article uses the term \"laws\". These laws deal with the sensory modality of vision. However, there are analogous laws for other sensory modalities including auditory, tactile, gustatory and olfactory (Bregman – GP). The visual Gestalt principles of grouping were introduced in Wertheimer (1923). Through the 1930s and '40s Wertheimer, Kohler and Koffka formulated many of the laws of grouping through the study of visual perception.\n\n\nSome of the central criticisms of Gestaltism are based on the preference Gestaltists are deemed to have for theory over data, and a lack of quantitative research supporting Gestalt ideas. This is not necessarily a fair criticism as highlighted by a recent collection of quantitative research on Gestalt perception.\n\nOther important criticisms concern the lack of definition and support for the many physiological assumptions made by gestaltists and lack of theoretical coherence in modern Gestalt psychology.\n\nIn some scholarly communities, such as cognitive psychology and computational neuroscience, gestalt theories of perception are criticized for being \"descriptive\" rather than \"explanatory\" in nature. For this reason, they are viewed by some as redundant or uninformative. For example, Bruce, Green & Georgeson conclude the following regarding gestalt theory's influence on the study of visual perception:\nGestalt psychologists find it is important to think of problems as a whole. Max Wertheimer considered thinking to happen in two ways: productive and reproductive.\n\nProductive thinking is solving a problem with insight.\n\nThis is a quick insightful unplanned response to situations and environmental interaction.\n\nReproductive thinking is solving a problem with previous experiences and what is already known. (1945/1959).\n\nThis is a very common thinking. For example, when a person is given several segments of information, he/she deliberately examines the relationships among its parts, analyzes their purpose, concept, and totality, he/she reaches the \"aha!\" moment, using what is already known. Understanding in this case happens intentionally by reproductive thinking.\n\nAnother gestalt psychologist, Perkins, believes insight deals with three processes:\n\nViews going against the gestalt psychology are:\n\nGestalt psychology should not be confused with the gestalt therapy of Fritz Perls, which is only peripherally linked to gestalt psychology. A strictly gestalt psychology-based therapeutic method is Gestalt Theoretical Psychotherapy, developed by the German gestalt psychologist and psychotherapist Hans-Jürgen Walter and his colleagues in Germany, Austria (Gerhard Stemberger and colleagues) and Switzerland. Other countries, especially Italy, have seen similar developments.\n\nFuzzy-trace theory, a dual process model of memory and reasoning, was also derived from Gestalt psychology. Fuzzy-trace theory posits that we encode information into two separate traces: verbatim and gist. Information stored in verbatim is exact memory for detail (the individual parts of a pattern, for example) while information stored in gist is semantic and conceptual (what we perceive the pattern to be). The effects seen in Gestalt psychology can be attributed to the way we encode information as gist.\n\nThe gestalt laws are used in user interface design. The laws of similarity and proximity can, for example, be used as guides for placing radio buttons. They may also be used in designing computers and software for more intuitive human use. Examples include the design and layout of a desktop's shortcuts in rows and columns.\n\nAn example of the Gestalt movement in effect, as it is both a process and result, is a music sequence. People are able to recognise a sequence of perhaps six or seven notes, despite them being transposed into a different tuning or key.\n\nSimilarities between Gestalt phenomena and quantum mechanics have been pointed out by, among others, chemist Anton Amann, who commented that \"similarities between Gestalt perception and quantum mechanics are on a level of a parable\" yet may give useful insight nonetheless. Physicist Elio Conte and co-workers have proposed abstract, mathematical models to describe the time dynamics of cognitive associations with mathematical tools borrowed from quantum mechanics and has discussed psychology experiments in this context. A similar approach has been suggested by physicists David Bohm, Basil Hiley and philosopher Paavo Pylkkänen with the notion that mind and matter both emerge from an \"implicate order\". The models involve non-commutative mathematics; such models account for situations in which the outcome of two measurements performed one after the other can depend on the order in which they are performed—a pertinent feature for psychological processes, as an experiment performed on a conscious person may influence the outcome of a subsequent experiment by changing the state of mind of that person.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10840393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10840393", "title": "Graphesthesia", "text": "Graphesthesia\n\nGraphesthesia is the ability to recognize writing on the skin purely by the sensation of touch. Its name derives from Greek \"graphē\" (\"writing\") and \"aisthēsis\" (\"perception\"). Graphesthesia tests combined cortical sensation; therefore, it is necessary that primary sensation be intact.\n\nDuring medical or neurological examination graphesthesia is tested in order to test for certain neurological conditions such as; lesions in brainstem, spinal cord, sensory cortex or thalamus. An examiner writes single numbers or simple letters on the skin (usually the palm) with something that will provide a clear stimulus, such as a broken tongue depressor, pen cap etc. Prior to the start of testing, an agreement may be reached between the examiner and the patient as to the orientation of the letters, although this is often unnecessary, since orientation and size of the figures are rarely an issue. The crucial aspect of testing graphesthesia, as with any sensory testing, is to establish that the patient understands the test, hence the test is commenced, in the hemiplegic patient, on the normal, intact hand. This also allows the examiner to establish the patient's numeracy, since semi-numerate patients may have difficulties performing the task.\n\nThe patient provides a verbal response identifying the figure that was drawn. If the patient has a speech or language impairment that prevents them from verbalizing an answer, the answer can be selected from a series of images shown to them. \nLoss of graphesthesia indicates either parietal lobe damage on the side opposite the hand tested or damage to the dorsal columns pathway at any point between the tested point and the contralateral parietal lobe. \nThe major clinical utility of the test in the 21st century is in the condition, cortico-basal ganglionic degeneration, where, in addition to evidence of basal ganglia dysfunction, the presence of cortical sensory loss is likely to have reasonably high specificity for the diagnosis.\n\nTesting graphesthesia can be substituted for stereognosis if a patient is unable to grasp an object.\n\n"}
{"id": "50762277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50762277", "title": "Hub-and-spoke conspiracy", "text": "Hub-and-spoke conspiracy\n\nA hub-and-spoke conspiracy (or hub-and-spokes conspiracy) is a legal construct or doctrine of United States antitrust and criminal law. In such a conspiracy, several parties (\"spokes\") enter into an unlawful agreement with a leading party (\"hub\"). The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit explained the concept in these terms:\n\nIn a \"hub-and-spoke conspiracy,\" a central mastermind, or \"hub,\" controls numerous \"spokes,\" or secondary co-conspirators. These co-conspirators participate in independent transactions with the individual or group of individuals at the \"hub\" that collectively further a single, illegal enterprise.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit explained the concept in these terms:\n\nSuch a conspiracy involves a hub, generally the dominant purchaser or supplier in the relevant market, and the spokes, made up of the distributors involved in the conspiracy. The rim of the wheel is the connecting agreements among the horizontal competitors (distributors) that form the spokes.\n\nThe antitrust cases often emphasize the importance of interdependence among the spokes and their recognition of one another. The general criminal cases, such as narcotics conspiracy prosecutions, tend to require only a more general knowledge among the spokes that there is a larger overall unlawful scheme involving other actors who are cooperating with the hub in carrying out the scheme. It is controversial, particularly in the antitrust cases, how much knowledge spoke actors must have of the conduct of other spoke actors—which is to say how much of a \"rim\" must be put around the \"wheel\" of the hub-and-spoke conspiracy for it to be a single conspiracy rather than many separate \"vertical\" conspiracies. There is a controversy and some uncertainty over the legal status of the \"rimless\" conspiracy—one with very limited interaction among the spokes.\n\nThe leading two Supreme Court cases were \"Interstate Circuit\" and \"Kotteakos\".\n\nIn \"Interstate Circuit, Inc. v. United States\", the Government sued two groups of defendants for engaging in a price-fixing conspiracy. One group of eight defendants were distributors (such as Paramount Pictures) of motion picture films, that distributed about 75 percent of all first-class feature films exhibited in the United States.. A second group of defendants were two dominant theater owners in Texas and New Mexico—Interstate Circuit and a related company—which had a monopoly of first-run theaters in various cities.\nThe manager of the defendant theater owners sent a same or similar letter to each of the distributor defendants, naming on its face as addressees all of the defendant distributors. The letter demanded as a condition of continued dealing that the distributor (1) require that second-run theaters never exhibit the films at a smaller admission price than 25¢, and (2) never exhibit them in conjunction with another feature picture (so-called double features). Conferences discussing the matter were held between representatives of Interstate and individual distributors. The distributors each agreed and complied with the demands.\n\nThe Supreme Court held it permissible to draw \"the inference of agreement from the nature of the proposals made . . .[and] from the substantial unanimity of action taken upon them by the distributors.\" The Court emphasized that each distributor knew that the distributors all knew that the others were getting the same letter and knew that \"without substantially unanimous action with respect to the restrictions for any given territory, there was risk of a substantial loss of the business and goodwill of the subsequent-run and independent exhibitors, but that, with it, there was the prospect of increased profits.\" The Court said that provided \"strong motive for concerted action.\" The Court added:\n\nIt was enough that, knowing that concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it. Each distributor was advised that the others were asked to participate; each knew that cooperation was essential to successful operation of the plan. . . . Acceptance by competitors, without previous agreement, of an invitation to participate in a plan the necessary consequence of which, if carried out, is restraint of interstate commerce is sufficient to establish an unlawful conspiracy under the Sherman Act.\n\nIn \"Kotteakos v. United States\", Simon Brown, owner of a construction company, conspired with Kotteakos and 31 other persons to defraud the Government by filing false statements in applications for loans for modernization and renovation under the National Housing Act. No connections was shown between the individual loan applicants. In each case, however, Brown induced the applicants to file the loan application and assisted them in applying, in return for a 5% commission.\n\nThe Court characterized the facts as showing: \"As the Government puts it, the pattern was 'that of separate spokes meeting at a common center,' though we may add without the rim of the wheel to enclose the spokes.\" The Court therefore held that while the indictment alleged one conspiracy the Government proved several (at least eight) conspiracies. That is, the Government failed to demonstrate the rim of the wheel, that connected the spokes to one another. \"Without the rim, an alleged hub-and-spoke cartel is merely a set of vertical relationships (or restraints) that result in parallel conduct and does not establish\" a hub-and-spoke conspiracy.\n\nSince \"Interstate Circuit\", the Supreme Court decided four hub-and-spoke conspiracy cases and one case rejecting a parallel-action conspiracy claim.\n\n\"United States v. Masonite Corp.\", was a patent–antitrust price-fixing case, in which the patent holder negotiated licenses with price-fixing clauses while resolving infringement disputes with some of the licensees. The Supreme Court said that each licensee “acted independently of the others, negotiated only with [the patent holder], desired the agreement regardless of the action that might be taken by any of the others, did not require as a condition of its acceptance . . . an agreement with any of the others, and had no discussions with any of the others.\" Nevertheless, the Court applied \"Interstate Circuit\" because:\n\nIt is not clear at what precise point of time each [defendant licensee] became aware of the fact that its contract was not an isolated transaction but part of a larger arrangement. But it [was] clear that as the arrangement continued each became familiar with its purpose and scope.”\n\nAccordingly, even if the evidentiary requirements of \"Interstate Circuit\" were not met at the outset of the cartel arrangement, they were met after it remained in place. \"It was enough that, knowing that concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it.\"\n\nIn \"Blumenthal v. United States\", the Supreme Court looked at the other side of the coin of \"Kotteakos\". The Court distinguished the \"Kotteakos\" case involving several conspiracies from the case before it involving one conspiracy:\n\n[In \"Kotteakos\"] no two of those agreements were tied together as stages in the formation of a larger all-inclusive combination, all directed to achieving a single unlawful end or result. On the contrary each separate agreement had its own distinct, illegal end. Each loan was an end in itself, separate from all others, although all were alike in having similar illegal objects. Except for Brown, the common figure, no conspirator was interested in whether any loan except his own went through. And none aided in any way, by agreement or otherwise, in procuring another's loan. The conspiracies therefore were distinct and disconnected, not parts of a larger general scheme, both in the phase of agreement with Brown and also in the absence of any aid given to others as well as in specific object and result. There was no drawing of all together in a single, over-all, comprehensive plan. Here the contrary is true. All knew of and joined in the overriding scheme.\n\nIn \"Theatre Enterprises, Inc. v. Paramount Film Distributing Corp.\", the Supreme Court rejected a claim by a suburban theater owner (TEI) that a group of motion picture producers and distributors had violated the antitrust laws by conspiring to restrict first-run films to downtown Baltimore theaters, thus confining petitioner's suburban theater to subsequent runs and unreasonable \"clearances.\" Each of the defendant motion picture producers and distributors refused to make first-run films available to TEI and adhered to an established policy of restricting first-runs in Baltimore to the eight downtown theaters. There was no direct evidence of illegal agreement among the defendants. The \"crucial question\" was whether the defendants' conduct against TEI \"stemmed from independent decision or from an agreement, tacit or express.\" The lower court, in effect, refused to direct the jury to find a conspiracy based on the facts as to parallel refusals to deal with TEI. The Supreme Court said that was correct, because:\n\n[T]his Court has never held that proof of parallel business behavior conclusively establishes agreement or, phrased differently, that such behavior itself constitutes a Sherman Act offense. Circumstantial evidence of consciously parallel behavior may have made heavy inroads into the traditional judicial attitude toward conspiracy, but \"conscious parallelism\" has not yet read conspiracy out of the Sherman Act entirely.\n\nIn \"Klor’s, Inc. v. Broadway-Hale Stores, Inc.\", a major California department store, Broadway-Hale, induced Admiral, Emerson Radio, General Electric, Philco, RCA, Whirlpool, Zenith, and other major appliance manufacturers to stop selling to Klor's, a price cutter in San Francisco. Klor's brought an antitrust treble damages suit, alleging a conspiracy among Broadway-Hale and the manufacturers. By pre-trial order the case one was limited to a single conspiracy charging a Sherman Act violation. The defendants moved for summary judgment, and the lower courts agreed, on the grounds that Klor's was only one of many stores selling such goods, so that its elimination as a competitive factor did not substantially lessen competition in the general market—there was no public injury. Whether a conspiracy existed was by-passed, even though the allegations appear to have described a rimless wheel conspiracy, without the spokes (appliance manufacturers) being connected to one another, knowing what one another were doing, or being interdependent. The Supreme Court reversed, on the grounds that Klor's sufficiently pleaded a boycott conspiracy. The Court said, \"Alleged in this complaint is a wide combination consisting of manufacturers, distributors, and a retailer.\"\n\nIn \"United States v. Parke, Davis & Co.\" the Supreme Court held it proper to infer a combination among a drug manufacturer, wholesalers, and retailers when the manufacturer engaged in a substantial course of concerted activities in order to stop discounters from selling its products below recommended resale prices. The manufacturer \ninformed its wholesalers that it would terminate any wholesaler that sold its products to discounters, and enforced this policy. It discussed the policy with its wholesalers and retailers to secure adherence to it, and it put together an agreement among retailers not to advertise products at prices below those recommended. Parke Davis offered the retailers its products \"packaged in a competition-free wrapping . . . by virtue of concerted action induced by the manufacturer.\" Parke Davis was \"thus the organizer of a price maintenance combination or conspiracy in violation of the Sherman Act.\"\n\nIn \"United States v. General Motors Corp.\", a group of Chevrolet car dealers in the Los Angeles area persuaded GM to eliminate price cutters. In response to dealers' complaints organized by their trade associations, GM Los Angeles area officials treated the \"principal offenders\" to \"unprecedented individual confrontations\" and obtained promises to abandon the practices deemed objectionable. Most agreed promptly but one put off decision for a week \"to make sure that the other dealers, or most of them, had stopped their business dealings with discount houses.\" A \"joint effort between General Motors, the three [local dealer] associations, and a number of individual dealers\" was organized to police compliance. GM local officials confronted reoffenders and required them to repurchase cars sold in violation of policy. \"[T]he campaign to eliminate the discounters from commerce in new Chevrolet cars was a success.\"\n\nThe district court refused to find a Sherman Act violation. But the Supreme Court reversed. It explained:\n\nThe dealers collaborated, through the associations and otherwise, among themselves and with General Motors, both to enlist the aid of General Motors and to enforce dealers' promises to forsake the discounters. The associations explicitly entered into a joint venture to assist General Motors in policing the dealers' promises, and their joint proffer of aid was accepted and utilized by General Motors.\n\nNot only did the dealers conspire among themselves but they enlisted GM to act as the \"hub\" of the conspiracy:\n\nAs Parke Davis had done, General Motors sought to elicit from all the dealers agreements, substantially interrelated and interdependent, that none of them would do business with the discounters. These agreements were hammered out in meetings between nonconforming dealers and officials of General Motors' Chevrolet Division, and in telephone conversations with other dealers. It was acknowledged from the beginning that substantial unanimity would be essential if the agreements were to be forthcoming. And once the agreements were secured, General Motors both solicited and employed the assistance of its alleged co-conspirators in helping to police them. What resulted was a fabric interwoven by many strands of joint action to eliminate the discounters from participation in the market, to inhibit the free choice of franchised dealers to select their own methods of trade, and to provide multilateral surveillance and enforcement. This process for achieving and enforcing the desired objective can by no stretch of the imagination be described as \"unilateral\" or merely \"parallel.\"\n\nThis conduct was illegal \"per se\". \"Exclusion of traders from the market by means of combination or conspiracy is so inconsistent with the free market principles embodied in the Sherman Act that it is not to be saved by reference to the need for preserving the collaborators' profit margins or their system for distributing automobiles, any more than by reference to the allegedly tortious conduct against which a combination or conspiracy may be directed. . . . In addition, it was price fxing.\n\nThe various courts of appeals have interpreted and modified the Supreme Court's rulings on hub-and-spoke conspiracies.\n\nOne of the cases that the Supreme Court relied on in \"Blumenthal\" was \"Poliafico\". In \"Poliafico v. United States\", the Sixth Circuit found a conspiracy to sell heroin among several suppliers in bulk and their retail supplier agents (street dealers) who retailed it to addicts in diluted form and in smaller quantities. The Sixth Circuit explained the structure of the hub-and-spoke conspiracy as follows:\n\nAll of the appellants were either selling heroin to Poliafico and his associates, or reselling it for them, or carrying on negotiations for such sales, or making payments therefor, or delivering heroin for resale, or reselling it. The purchase of heroin and the resale of heroin, in this case, was concerned with one enterprise, which could be called the Poliafico deal, in the parlance of the underworld. The over-all conspiracy was the plan, conceived by Poliafico and his associates, to buy and sell heroin at a profit. The [retail] suppliers knew that the purchases were for resale and they also knew that several conspirators were involved in the purchases.\n\nThe court said, \"The fact that one such [retail] supplier did not have dealings with another [retail] supplier does not matter,\" because if \"each performs the same role at successive stages for the same ends, and both know and participate in the plan of the others to buy and sell heroin at a profit, each is guilty as a conspirator.\" The court explained its concept of a hub-and-spoke conspiracy:\n\nWhen two or more persons are shown to have been engaged in the same unlawful conspiracy, having for its object the same common and unlawful purpose, it is not necessary to prove the knowledge by one of the dealings, or even of the existence, of the others, in order to render evidence of the actions of those others admissible against that person. There was one conspiracy in this case — the continuing scheme of buying and reselling heroin.\nThe proofs of the government show that all appellants were associated in this scheme, some by virtue of selling or delivering the heroin to the Poliafico group, others because of being associated with the group in carrying out the scheme, collecting money through resales of the drug, making payments to suppliers, or carrying on negotiations for the purchase or resale. All appellants knew of the conspiracy. The suppliers knew that the Poliafico group must resell the heroin at a profit; and all associated with Poliafico in the resale of the heroin knew that Poliafico must buy it from suppliers and that the resales must be at a profit.\n\nIt is not necessary for each conspirator to know the whole scope or all the details of the conspiracy. \"He must know the [unlawful] purpose of the conspiracy, however, otherwise he is not guilty.\"\n\nOther narcotics conspiracy cases are similar. For example, in \"United States v. Tramaglino\", a distinguished panel of the Second Circuit (Swan, A. Hand, and Frank) found a single conspiracy to buy and resell marijuana based on \"evidence of several sales, at different periods, by Rosario and Tramaglino, of marihuana to the same group of buyers with knowledge on the part of the two suppliers that several conspirators were involved in the purchases and that the purchases were for resale.\" The court explained:\n\nThis was enough, we think, to show that each appellant, as supplier, participated in, and acted to further the ends of, the conspiracy. It did not matter that neither had dealings with one another; each performed the same role at successive stages for the same ends. The overall conspiracy was the plan conceived by the intermediary group — Alvarez, Zayas, and their fellows — to buy and resell marihuana at a profit. Both Rosario and Tramaglino knew and participated in this plan by furnishing the essential ingredient — the marihuana.\n\nA closely related concept to the hub-and-spoke conspiracy, or a variation on it, is the chain conspiracy, which is linear rather than wheel-shaped. A representative example is \"United States v. Bruno\". In \"Bruno\" 88 people were alleged to be members of a single conspiracy to import, sell and possess narcotics. The evidence was that over a substantial period of time a conspiracy existed embracing a great number of persons. The object of the conspiracy was to smuggle narcotics into New York and distribute them to addicts both in New York and in Texas and Louisiana. \"This required the cooperation of four groups of persons: the smugglers who imported the drugs; the middlemen who paid the smugglers and distributed to retailers; and two groups of retailers — one in New York and one in Texas and Louisiana — who supplied the addicts.\"\n\nThe defendants argued that there were at least three separate conspiracies: one between the smugglers and the middlemen, one in New York between the New York middlemen and group of retailers. and one in Texas and Louisiana between those middlemen and retailers. Since the evidence did not disclose any cooperation or communication between the smugglers and either group of retailers, or between the two groups of retailers themselves. However, insisted the court:\n\nThe smugglers knew that the middlemen must sell to retailers, and the retailers knew that the middlemen must buy of importers of one sort or another. Thus the conspirators at one end of the chain knew that the unlawful business would not, and could not, stop with their buyers; and those at the other end knew that it had not begun with their sellers. That being true, a jury might have found that all the accused were embarked upon a [single] venture, in all parts of which each was a participant, and an abettor in the sense that the success of that part with which he was immediately concerned, was dependent upon the success of the whole.\n\nThere could also be two conspiracies—one in New York including the smugglers, the New York middlemen and the New York group of retailers; and the other including the smugglers, the Gulf Coast middlemen and the Gulf Coast group of retailers. There was apparently no contact between the two groups of retailers, possibly negating their being in a conspiracy together. \"That too would be fallacious,\" the court said, because there was only one conspiracy as far as the defendant smugglers were concerned:\n\nFor it was of no moment to them whether the middlemen sold to one or more groups of retailers, provided they had a market somewhere. So too of any retailer; he knew that he was a necessary link in a scheme of distribution, and the others, whom he knew to be convenient to its execution, were as much parts of a single undertaking or enterprise as two salesmen in the same shop. We think therefore that there was only one conspiracy.\n\nTo sustain a chain conspiracy charge, the evidence must establish \"that each conspirator had the specific intent to further the common unlawful objective.\" It is immaterial that the individual co-conspirators do not know each other or meet. \"Courts have long recognized that participants in a continuous drug distribution enterprise can be parties to a single conspiracy even if they do not all know one another, so long as each knows that his own role in the distribution of drugs and the benefits he derives from his participation depend on the activities of the others.\"\n\nIn \"Elder-Beerman Stores Corp. v. Federated Dept. Stores, Inc.\", the plaintiff retailer E–B claimed that the defendant Federated department store chain conspired with 66 (later 12) suppliers in violation of the antitrust laws. E–B argued that Federated (and/or its predecessor Rike's) and the suppliers conspired to destroy E–B's ability to compete on fair terms, and for the purpose of attempting to obtain a department store monopoly in the Dayton, Ohio area.\n\nThe Sixth Circuit characterized E–B's legal theory as the \"rimless wheel\" theory. E–B contended that it had established a conspiracy by showing the following: Rike's used \"coercion\" to persuade some suppliers to grant Rike's the exclusive right to sell the merchandise involved; other suppliers granted exclusives to Rike's although E–B lacked evidence that Rike's had in fact used coercion to persuade them to do so; there was evidence of an exclusive relationship between Rike's and many of the suppliers; there was evidence of an exclusive arrangement resulting from \"coercion\" as to some of the suppliers; for the other suppliers, the basic evidence was they refused to sell to E–B; there was also evidence that Rike's refused to buy from certain suppliers who sold to E–B.\n\nThe trial court relied on \"Poliafico\" to find a single conspiracy. The Sixth Circuit said that in that case \"by the very nature of the business everyone involved in the alleged conspiracy had to know that other persons would be performing illegal acts in furtherance of the conspiracy.\" It therefore appears that to establish a conspiracy under the rimless wheel theory, it must be shown:\nSince there was no evidence for each supplier that the supplier in fact had knowledge of the existence of such conspiracy, such a supplier could not be considered a spoke. \"We, therefore, hold that on this record Elder-Beerman failed to offer sufficient probative evidence to establish the alleged single conspiracy upon which it bases its claim for damages.\" \n\nOne judge dissented as to the conspiracy issue. He stated:\n\nAccording to Elder-Beerman's theory, Rike's was the hub of the conspiratorial wheel and its exclusive suppliers were the spokes. One of the important questions in this case is whether the suppliers (or any of them) agreed with each other, as well as with Rike's, to participate in the conspiracy. My colleagues believe, and I believe, that there was no such evidence in this record. In short, there was no rim to this wheel, or to put it in more conventional antitrust language, there was no proof of a horizontal conspiracy.\n\nHowever, he considered it proper to find a single conspiracy as in \"Poliafico\". He found \"Kotteakos\" inapplicable because that was a ruling to protect the spokes from being tarred with one another's conduct after the hub had pleaded guilty. Here, in contrast, the supplier spokes are not in court, \"and the case proceeds against the central party charged with the conspiracy, the hub of this particular wheel.\" Any error is harmless, he said, and the case is more like \"Klor's\" than like \"Kotteakos\".\n\nThe \"Toys \"R\" Us\" chain of retail toy stores, the largest such U.S. chain (selling approximately 20% of all the toys sold in the United States), found itself encountering severe competition from price-cutting warehouse clubs. It became concerned that warehouse clubs—with substantially lower prices—presented a threat to its low-price image and its profits. The FTC determined that to eliminate this threat, Toys \"R\" Us used its dominant position as a toy distributor to extract parallel agreements from among ten principal toy manufacturers (such as Mattel, Hasbro, Fisher Price, Tyco, and Sega) to stop selling to warehouse clubs exactly the same toys that they sold to other toy distributors such as the clubs. The FTC explained that Toys \"R\" Us wanted \"to prevent consumers from comparing the price and quality of products in the clubs to the price and quality of the same toys displayed and sold at Toys \"R\" Us, and thereby to reduce the effectiveness of the clubs as competitors.\"\n\nThe FTC found that Toys \"R\" Us also used the acquiescence of one manufacturer to obtain that of others, orchestrating a horizontal agreement among at least seven manufacturers to adhere to Toys \"R\" Us’s restrictions. The company also used the manufacturers to police one another. When one manufacturer complained that a competitor was selling to warehouse clubs, Toys \"R\" Us threatened to stop buying that competitor’s products and got its renewed acquiescence to the sales restrictions. The FTC found that the effect of the agreements was to eliminate competition that would have driven Toys \"R\" Us to lower its prices had Toys \"R\" Us not taken action to stifle the competitive threat posed by the clubs. The FTC concluded that \"Toys \"R\" Us and its reluctant collaborators set out to eliminate from the marketplace a form of price competition and a style of service that increasing numbers of consumers preferred,\" and that Toys \"R\" Us’ had orchestrated a boycott that harmed the clubs, competition, and consumers without any \"business justification for a boycott that had [such] a pronounced anticompetitive effect.\"\n\nIn so ruling, the FTC emphasized that \"key toy manufacturers were unwilling to refuse to sell to or discriminate against the clubs unless they were assured that their competitors would do the same,” and that Toy \"R\" Us \"acted as the central player in the middle of what might be called a hub-and-spoke conspiracy, shuttling commitments back and forth between toy manufacturers and helping to hammer out points of shared understanding.”\n\nThe Seventh Circuit affirmed, comparing the case to \"Interstate Circuit\". The court emphasized FTC findings supporting a hub-and-spoke theory. For example, a Toys \"R\" Us official testified, \"We made a point to tell each of the vendors that we spoke to that we would be talking to our other key suppliers.\" Mattel and Hasbro executives testified that they went along with \"the special warehouse club policy (or, in the Commission's more pejorative language, boycott)\" only \"because our competitors had agreed\" to it.\n\nThe Seventh Circuit acknowledged that \"there must be some evidence that tends to exclude the possibility' that the alleged conspirators acted independently,\" but rejected the idea that \"the Commission had to exclude all possibility that the manufacturers acted independently.\" But the FTC relied on evidence even more compelling than that in \"Interstate Circuit\" because it included direct communications and interdependence—the manufacturers testified that \"the only condition on which each toy manufacturer would agree to [the boycott] demands was if it could be sure its competitors were doing the same thing.\" And \"as is classically true in such cartels,\" the court said, \"they were willing to do so only if TRU could protect them against cheaters.\"\n\nIn \"Dickson v. Microsoft Corp.\", the plaintiffs unsuccessfully argued that Microsoft had engaged in a hub-and-spoke conspiracy with three original equipment manufacturers (OEMs)—Compaq, Dell, and PB Electronics—to restrain trade, in violation of § 1 of the Sherman Act, in the sale of operating systems, word processing, and spreadsheet software, and also a conspiracy to maintain Microsoft's alleged monopolies in the same markets, in violation of § 2 of the Sherman Act. The alleged conspiracy was a set of similar licensing agreements in which the licensees agreed: (1) not to remove icons, folders, or Start menu entries from the Windows desktop; (2) not to modify the initial Windows boot sequence; (3) to integrate Microsoft's Internet browser software Internet Explorer (IE) and other application software with Microsoft's operating system software; and (4) to long-term distribution contracts, exclusive dealing distribution arrangements, and per-processor license fees. In exchange, the OEM defendants received various benefits, including discounts on software and \"greater cooperation from Microsoft in product development.\" The OEMs also gained various competitive advantages in selling computer hardware. The district court held that the complaint failed to state a claim upon which relief could be granted, and dismissed the case. An appeal to the Fourth Circuit followed.\n\nThe Fourth Circuit said that the allegations described a \"rimless wheel\" conspiracy or a hub-and-spoke conspiracy. Citing \"Kotteakos\", the court stated, \"A rimless wheel conspiracy is one in which various defendants enter into separate agreements with a common defendant, but where the defendants have no connection with one another, other than the common defendant's involvement in each transaction.\" That is a hub-and-spoke conspiracy \"without the rim of the wheel to enclose the spokes.\" The court added, \"In \"Kotteakos\", the Supreme Court made clear that a rimless wheel conspiracy is not a single, general conspiracy but instead amounts to multiple conspiracies between the common defendant and each of the other defendants.\" Thus, the hub-and-spoke conspiracy claim failed. The claim of separate vertical conspiracies, however, potentially survived a motion to dismiss. The Fourth Circuit dismissed the complaint, however, on other grounds, including insufficient likelihood of substantial anticompetitive effects.\n\nA dissenting judge distinguished \"Kotteakos\" from this case and would have found a sufficient allegation of a conspiracy. The missing element in \"Kotteakos\" was interdependence; each of the other defendants used Brown's services independently of every other defendant's use. The rimless conspiracy pleaded here had as its elements: (1) an overall unlawful plan; (2) knowledge that others must be involved is inferable to each member, because of his knowledge of the unlawful nature of the subject of the conspiracy, but knowledge on the part of each member of the exact scope of the operation or the number of people involved is not required; and (3) each alleged co-conspirator participated in some way. The dissent argued that the allegations were that \"each OEM joined a conspiracy which it knew was, by its nature, broader than just itself and Microsoft.\" The dissent said this satisfied the Supreme Court's language on hub-and-spoke conspiracy in \"Interstate Circuit\" (\"[I]t is elementary that an unlawful conspiracy may be and often is formed without simultaneous action or agreement on the part of the conspirators\") and \"Masonite\" (\"Here, as in \"Interstate Circuit\", . . . [i]t was enough that, knowing that concerted action was contemplated and invited, the distributors gave their adherence to the scheme and participated in it.\").\n\nIn \"PepsiCo, Inc. v. Coca-Cola Co.\", the Second Circuit rejected PepsiCo's claim that it had shown a hub-and-spoke conspiracy that Coca-Cola put together with independent food service distributors (\"IFDs\"), prohibiting the IFDs from delivering PepsiCo products to any of their customers. Coca-Cola had a \"loyalty program\" that provided that IFDs who supply customers with Coca-Cola may not \"handle [ ] the soft drink products\" of PepsiCo, under penalty of termination. PepsiCo had sued Coca-Cola, charging that the enforcement of the program violated Sherman Act § 1's per se rule against boycotts, but the court granted summary judgment because it found that PepsiCo failed to prove a horizontal agreement among IFDs to boycott PepsiCo. PepsiCo offered no evidence of direct communications among the IFDs; it offered only to prove that Coca-Cola assured the IFDs that the loyalty policy would be uniformly enforced and encouraged them to report violations. The Second Circuit said, \"We agree with the district court that this was insufficient evidence of a horizontal agreement to withstand summary judgment.\"\n\nPepsiCo argued that it had shown a per se illegal hub-and-spoke conspiracy. But the Second Circuit said the cases on which PepsiCo relied were price-fixing hub-and-spoke cases, such as \"Interstate Circuit\" and \"Parke, Davis\", which were based on \"per se\" illegal conduct. But vertical exclusive dealing agreements are not \"per se\" illegal, so that hub-and-spoke conspiracies to establish exclusive dealing are mot \"per se\" illegal. To be \"per se\" illegal as a boycott, the IFDs must agree together not to deal with PepsiCo. \"A horizontal agreement is a prerequisite in a group boycott case.\" Although it did not say so, the court apparently thought PepsiCo had shown merely a rimless wheel.\n\nIn \"United States v. Apple, Inc.\" (the \"eBook\" case), Apple decided to enter the electronic book business, which was dominated by Amazon, which sold about 90% of the ebooks of the six major U.S. publishers. Apple persuaded five of these Big 6 publishers to enter into agency distribution agreements with it as principal and them as agent. The agreements set prices, and the publishers raised their prices. Apple had established a cartel for the publishers. The district court found a hub-and-spoke price-fixing conspiracy and the Second Circuit affirmed. Apple unsuccessfully argued that the \"per se\" rule should not apply to a hub-and-spoke price-fixing conspiracy because it was \"vertical.\"\n\nIn the \"Guitar Center\" case, the Ninth Circuit considered an alleged hub-and-spoke conspiracy case similar to \"Klor's\" and \"Interstate Circuit\", but the court (2-1) found it implausible that the spokes conspired rather than merely acting independently in a parallel fashion. Guitar Center, the largest retail seller of musical instruments in the United States, accounted for about a third of all U.S. retail sales of guitars and guitar amplifiers. It was alleged that Guitar Center, a trade association of music retailers, and the five major manufacturers of guitars and guitar amplifiers conspired to set minimum prices at which any retailer could advertise the manufacturers' guitars and guitar amplifiers, in violation of the antitrust laws. The district court dismissed the federal antitrust claim on the pleadings.\n\nOn appeal to the Ninth Circuit, the court conceded that \"the line between horizontal and vertical restraints can blur,\" and a \"conspiracy can involve both direct competitors and actors up and down the supply chain, and hence consist of both horizontal and vertical agreements,\" as in a hub-and-spoke conspiracy. The court saw the key question before it as \"whether plaintiffs have pleaded sufficient facts to provide a plausible basis from which we can infer the alleged [manufacturers' horizontal] agreements' existence. \n\nThe court noted \"one key difference between a rimless hub-and-spoke conspiracy (i.e., a collection of purely vertical agreements) and a rimmed hub-and-spoke conspiracy (i.e., a collection of vertical agreements joined by horizontal agreements).\" The key difference was that \"courts analyze vertical agreements under the rule of reason, whereas horizontal agreements are violations per se.\" The court then commented on the plaintiffs' motives:\nThis distinction provides strong incentives for plaintiffs to plead a horizontal conspiracy (either alone or as part of a rimmed hub-and-spoke conspiracy). The prospect of establishing a violation per se is much more appealing to plaintiffs than the potential difficulty and costliness of proving a § 1 claim under the rule of reason.\n\nThe plaintiffs relied on proof of the manufacturers' parallel conduct (they adopted the minimum price policy at about the same time) together with some so-called plus factors. The claim that the manufacturers' conduct was interdependent—that is, it would succeed only if they all did the same thing as appropriate united front—was not enough, the court said, because \"companies base their actions in part on the anticipated reactions of their competitors. And because of this mutual awareness, two firms may arrive at identical decisions independently, as they are cognizant of—and reacting to—similar market pressures.\" The presence of plus factors is therefore critical. The court listed the plaintiffs' alleged plus factors—\"economic actions and outcomes that are largely inconsistent with unilateral conduct but largely consistent with explicitly coordinated action\"—that could make the manufacturers' parallel action appear to be the result of agreement, but dismissed each as insufficiently persuasive:\nIn the Ninth Circuit's view, all this showed was that \"Guitar Center used its substantial market power to pressure each manufacturer to adopt similar policies, and each manufacturer adopted those policies as in its own interest.\" \n\nOne judge dissented. He pointed out that \"although the majority opinion purports to address the six plus factors as a whole, it actually focuses on each factor individually.\" In his view, \"When truly analyzed together, the six plus factors strongly suggest that the manufacturer defendants reached an illegal horizontal agreement, which 'nudge' plaintiffs' allegations 'from conceivable to plausible.' \"\n\n● Professor Orbach asserts that in the \"Guitar Center\" case \"the Ninth Circuit made the error of trying to break the alleged conspiracy 'into its constituent parts, the respective vertical and horizontal agreements.' \" Since this was a dismissal on the pleadings, the court's analysis \"demand[s] that plaintiffs offer at the pleading stage evidence of direct horizontal coordination,\" which is a heavy burden. The result is that the court provides \"a free pass to hub-and-spoke conspiracies where vertical communications may have dispensed with the need for such horizontal coordination.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "16288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16288", "title": "Jürgen Habermas", "text": "Jürgen Habermas\n\nJürgen Habermas (, ; ; born 18 June 1929) is a German philosopher and sociologist in the tradition of critical theory and pragmatism. He is perhaps best known for his theories on communicative rationality and the public sphere. In 2014, \"Prospect\" readers chose Habermas as one of their favourites among the \"world's leading thinkers\".\n\nAssociated with the Frankfurt School, Habermas's work focuses on the foundations of epistemology and social theory, the analysis of advanced capitalism and democracy, the rule of law in a critical social-evolutionary context, and contemporary politics, particularly German politics. Habermas's theoretical system is devoted to revealing the possibility of reason, emancipation, and rational-critical communication latent in modern institutions and in the human capacity to deliberate and pursue rational interests. Habermas is known for his work on the concept of modernity, particularly with respect to the discussions of rationalization originally set forth by Max Weber. He has been influenced by American pragmatism, action theory, and even poststructuralism.\n\nHabermas was born in Düsseldorf, Rhine Province, in 1929. He was born with a cleft palate and had corrective surgery twice during childhood. Habermas argues that his speech disability made him think differently about the importance of deep dependence and of communication.\n\nAs a young teenager, he was profoundly affected by World War II. Until his graduation from gymnasium, Habermas lived in Gummersbach, near Cologne. His father, Ernst Habermas, was Executive director of the Cologne Chamber of Industry and Commerce, and was described by Habermas as a Nazi sympathizer. He was brought up in a staunchly Protestant milieu, his grandfather being the director of the seminary in Gummersbach. He studied at the universities of Göttingen (1949/50), Zurich (1950/51), and Bonn (1951–54) and earned a doctorate in philosophy from Bonn in 1954 with a dissertation written on the conflict between the absolute and history in Schelling's thought, entitled, \"\" (\"The Absolute and History: On the Schism in Schelling's Thought\"). His dissertation committee included Erich Rothacker and Oskar Becker.\n\nFrom 1956 on, he studied philosophy and sociology under the critical theorists Max Horkheimer and Theodor Adorno at the Goethe University Frankfurt's Institute for Social Research, but because of a rift between the two over his dissertation—Horkheimer had made unacceptable demands for revision—as well as his own belief that the Frankfurt School had become paralyzed with political skepticism and disdain for modern culture—he finished his \"habilitation\" in political science at the University of Marburg under the Marxist Wolfgang Abendroth. His \"habilitation\" work was entitled \"\" (published in English translation in 1989 as \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society\"). It is a detailed social history of the development of the bourgeois public sphere from its origins in the 18th century salons up to its transformation through the influence of capital-driven mass media. In 1961 he became a \"Privatdozent\" in Marburg, and—in a move that was highly unusual for the German academic scene of that time—he was offered the position of \"extraordinary professor\" (professor without chair) of philosophy at the University of Heidelberg (at the instigation of Hans-Georg Gadamer and Karl Löwith) in 1962, which he accepted. In this same year he gained his first serious public attention, in Germany, with the publication of his habilitation. In 1964, strongly supported by Adorno, Habermas returned to Frankfurt to take over Horkheimer's chair in philosophy and sociology. The philosopher Albrecht Wellmer was his assistant in Frankfurt from 1966 to 1970.\n\nHe accepted the position of Director of the Max Planck Institute for the Study of the Scientific-Technical World in Starnberg (near Munich) in 1971, and worked there until 1983, two years after the publication of his magnum opus, \"The Theory of Communicative Action\". He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1984.\n\nHabermas then returned to his chair at Frankfurt and the directorship of the Institute for Social Research. Since retiring from Frankfurt in 1993, Habermas has continued to publish extensively. In 1986, he received the Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz Prize of the , which is the highest honour awarded in German research. He also holds the position of \"Permanent Visiting\" Professor at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, and \"Theodor Heuss Professor\" at The New School, New York.\n\nHabermas was awarded The Prince of Asturias Award in Social Sciences of 2003. Habermas was also the 2004 Kyoto Laureate in the Arts and Philosophy section. He traveled to San Diego and on 5 March 2005, as part of the University of San Diego's Kyoto Symposium, gave a speech entitled \"The Public Role of Religion in Secular Context\", regarding the evolution of separation of church and state from neutrality to intense secularism. He received the 2005 Holberg International Memorial Prize (about €520,000). In 2007, Habermas was listed as the seventh most-cited author in the humanities (including the social sciences) by \"The Times Higher Education Guide\", ahead of Max Weber and behind Erving Goffman.\n\nJürgen Habermas is the father of Rebekka Habermas, historian of German social and cultural history and professor of modern history at the University of Göttingen.\n\nHabermas is a famed teacher and mentor. Among his most prominent students were the pragmatic philosopher Herbert Schnädelbach (theorist of discourse distinction and rationality), the political sociologist Claus Offe (professor at the Hertie School of Governance in Berlin), the social philosopher Johann Arnason (professor at La Trobe University and chief editor of the journal \"Thesis Eleven\"), the social philosopher Hans-Herbert Kögler (Chair of Philosophy at University of North Florida), the sociological theorist Hans Joas (professor at the University of Erfurt and at the University of Chicago), the theorist of societal evolution Klaus Eder, the social philosopher Axel Honneth (the current director of the Institute for Social Research), the political theorist David Rasmussen (professor at Boston College and chief editor of the journal \"Philosophy & Social Criticism\"), the environmental ethicist Konrad Ott, the anarcho-capitalist philosopher Hans-Hermann Hoppe (who came to reject much of Habermas's thought), the American philosopher Thomas McCarthy, the co-creator of mindful inquiry in social research Jeremy J. Shapiro, and the assassinated Serbian prime minister Zoran Đinđić.\n\nHabermas has constructed a comprehensive framework of philosophy and social theory drawing on a number of intellectual traditions:\n\nJürgen Habermas considers his major contribution to be the development of the concept and theory of communicative reason or communicative rationality, which distinguishes itself from the rationalist tradition, by locating rationality in structures of interpersonal linguistic communication rather than in the structure of the cosmos. This social theory advances the goals of human emancipation, while maintaining an inclusive universalist moral framework. This framework rests on the argument called universal pragmatics—that all speech acts have an inherent telos (the Greek word for \"purpose\")—the goal of mutual understanding, and that human beings possess the communicative competence to bring about such understanding. Habermas built the framework out of the speech-act philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein, J. L. Austin and John Searle, the sociological theory of the interactional constitution of mind and self of George Herbert Mead, the theories of moral development of Jean Piaget and Lawrence Kohlberg, and the discourse ethics of his Frankfurt colleague and fellow student Karl-Otto Apel.\n\nHabermas's works resonate within the traditions of Kant and the Enlightenment and of democratic socialism through his emphasis on the potential for transforming the world and arriving at a more humane, just, and egalitarian society through the realization of the human potential for reason, in part through discourse ethics. While Habermas has stated that the Enlightenment is an \"unfinished project,\" he argues it should be corrected and complemented, not discarded. In this he distances himself from the Frankfurt School, criticizing it, as well as much of postmodernist thought, for excessive pessimism, radicalism, and exaggerations.\n\nWithin sociology, Habermas's major contribution was the development of a comprehensive theory of societal evolution and modernization focusing on the difference between communicative rationality and rationalization on one hand and strategic / instrumental rationality and rationalization on the other. This includes a critique from a communicative standpoint of the differentiation-based theory of social systems developed by Niklas Luhmann, a student of Talcott Parsons.\n\nHis defence of modernity and civil society has been a source of inspiration to others, and is considered a major philosophical alternative to the varieties of poststructuralism. He has also offered an influential analysis of late capitalism.\n\nHabermas perceives the rationalization, humanization and democratization of society in terms of the institutionalization of the potential for rationality that is inherent in the communicative competence that is unique to the human species. Habermas contends that communicative competence has developed through the course of evolution, but in contemporary society it is often suppressed or weakened by the way in which major domains of social life, such as the market, the state, and organizations, have been given over to or taken over by strategic/instrumental rationality, so that the logic of the system supplants that of the lifeworld.\n\nHabermas introduces the concept of \"reconstructive science\" with a double purpose: to place the \"general theory of society\" between philosophy and social science and re-establish the rift between the \"great theorization\" and the \"empirical research\".\nThe model of \"rational reconstructions\" represents the main thread of the surveys about the \"structures\" of the world of life (\"culture\", \"society\" and \"personality\") and their respective \"functions\" (cultural reproductions, social integrations and socialization). For this purpose, the dialectics between \"symbolic representation\" of \"the structures subordinated to all worlds of\nlife\" (\"internal relationships\") and the \"material reproduction\" of the social systems in their complex (\"external relationships\" between social systems and environment) has to be considered.\n\nThis model finds an application, above all, in the \"theory of the social evolution\", starting from the reconstruction of the necessary conditions for a phylogeny of the socio-cultural life forms (the \"hominization\") until an analysis of the development of \"social formations\", which Habermas subdivides into primitive, traditional, modern and contemporary formations.\n\"This paper is an attempt, primarily, to formalize the model of \"reconstruction of the logic of development\" of \"social formations\" summed up by Habermas through the differentiation between vital world and social systems (and, within them, through the \"rationalization of the world of life\" and the \"growth in complexity of the social systems\"). Secondly, it tries to offer some methodological clarifications about the \"explanation of the dynamics\" of \"historical processes\" and, in particular, about the \"theoretical meaning\" of the evolutional theory's propositions. Even if the German sociologist considers that the \"ex-post rational reconstructions\" and \"the models system/environment\" cannot have a complete \"historiographical application\", these certainly act as a general premise in the argumentative structure of the \"historical explanation\"\".\n\nIn \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere,\" Habermas argues that prior to the 18th century, European culture had been dominated by a \"representational\" culture, where one party sought to \"represent\" itself on its audience by overwhelming its subjects. As an example of \"representational\" culture, Habermas argued that Louis XIV's Palace of Versailles was meant to show the greatness of the French state and its King by overpowering the senses of visitors to the Palace. Habermas identifies \"representational\" culture as corresponding to the feudal stage of development according to Marxist theory, arguing that the coming of the capitalist stage of development marked the appearance of \"Öffentlichkeit\" (the public sphere). In the culture characterized by \"Öffentlichkeit\", there occurred a public space outside of the control by the state, where individuals exchanged views and knowledge.\n\nIn Habermas's view, the growth in newspapers, journals, reading clubs, Masonic lodges, and coffeehouses in 18th-century Europe, all in different ways, marked the gradual replacement of \"representational\" culture with \"Öffentlichkeit\" culture. Habermas argued that the essential characteristic of the \"Öffentlichkeit\" culture was its \"critical\" nature. Unlike \"representational\" culture where only one party was active and the other passive, the \"Öffentlichkeit\" culture was characterized by a dialogue as individuals either met in conversation, or exchanged views via the print media. Habermas maintains that as Britain was the most liberal country in Europe, the culture of the public sphere emerged there first around 1700, and the growth of \"Öffentlichkeit\" culture took place over most of the 18th century in Continental Europe. In his view, the French Revolution was in large part caused by the collapse of \"representational\" culture, and its replacement by \"Öffentlichkeit\" culture. Though Habermas' main concern in \"The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere\" was to expose what he regarded as the deceptive nature of free institutions in the West, his book had a major effect on the historiography of the French Revolution.\n\nAccording to Habermas, a variety of factors resulted in the eventual decay of the public sphere, including the growth of a commercial mass media, which turned the critical public into a passive consumer public; and the welfare state, which merged the state with society so thoroughly that the public sphere was squeezed out. It also turned the \"public sphere\" into a site of self-interested contestation for the resources of the state rather than a space for the development of a public-minded rational consensus.\n\nHis most known work to date, the \"Theory of Communicative Action\" (1981), is based on an adaptation of Talcott Parsons AGIL Paradigm. In this work, Habermas voiced criticism of the process of modernization, which he saw as inflexible direction forced through by economic and administrative rationalization. Habermas outlined how our everyday lives are penetrated by formal systems as parallel to development of the welfare state, corporate capitalism and mass consumption. These reinforcing trends rationalize public life. Disfranchisement of citizens occurs as political parties and interest groups become rationalized and representative democracy replaces participatory one. In consequence, boundaries between public and private, the individual and society, the system and the lifeworld are deteriorating. Democratic public life cannot develop where matters of public importance are not discussed by citizens. An \"ideal speech situation\" requires participants to have the same capacities of discourse, social equality and their words are not confused by ideology or other errors. In this version of the consensus theory of truth Habermas maintains that truth is what would be agreed upon in an ideal speech situation.\n\nHabermas has expressed optimism about the possibility of the revival of the public sphere. He discerns a hope for the future where the representative democracy-reliant nation-state is replaced by a deliberative democracy-reliant political organism based on the equal rights and obligations of citizens. In such a direct democracy-driven system, the activist public sphere is needed for debates on matters of public importance and as well as the mechanism for that discussion to affect the decision-making process.\n\nSeveral noted academics have provided various criticisms of Habermas's notions regarding the public sphere. John B. Thompson, a Professor of Sociology at the University of Cambridge and a fellow of \"The College of the Blessed Virgin Mary, Saint John the Evangelist and the glorious Virgin Saint Radegund, near Cambridge,\" also known as Jesus College, has claimed that Habermas's notion of the public sphere is antiquated due to the proliferation of mass-media communications.\n\nMichael Schudson from the University of California, San Diego argues more generally that a public sphere as a place of purely rational independent debate never existed.\n\nNancy Fraser, the Henry A. and Louise Loeb Professor of Political and Social Science and professor of philosophy at The New School in New York City, is a noted feminist critic of Habermas' work on the public sphere, arguing for the existence of multiple spheres and counterpublics.\n\nHabermas offered some early criticisms in an essay, \"Modernity versus Postmodernity\" (1981), which has achieved wide recognition. In that essay, Habermas raises the issue of whether, in light of the failures of the twentieth century, we \"should try to hold on to the \"intentions of the Enlightenment\", feeble as they may be, or should we declare the entire project of modernity a lost cause?\" Habermas refuses to give up on the possibility of a rational, \"scientific\" understanding of the life-world.\n\nHabermas has several main criticisms of postmodernism:\n\n\nHabermas is famous as a public intellectual as well as a scholar; most notably, in the 1980s he used the popular press to attack the German historians Ernst Nolte, Michael Stürmer, Klaus Hildebrand and Andreas Hillgruber. Habermas first expressed his views on the above-mentioned historians in the \"Die Zeit\" on 11 July 1986 in a \"feuilleton\" (a type of culture and arts opinion essay in German newspapers) entitled \"A Kind of Settlement of Damages\". Habermas criticized Nolte, Hildebrand, Stürmer and Hillgruber for \"apologistic\" history writing in regard to the Nazi era, and for seeking to \"close Germany's opening to the West\" that in Habermas's view had existed since 1945.\n\nHabermas argued that Ernst Nolte, Michael Stürmer, Klaus Hildebrand and Andreas Hillgruber had tried to detach Nazi rule and the Holocaust from the mainstream of German history, explain away Nazism as a reaction to Bolshevism, and partially rehabilitate the reputation of the Wehrmacht (German Army) during World War II. Habermas wrote that Stürmer was trying to create a \"vicarious religion\" in German history which, together with the work of Hillgruber, glorifying the last days of the German Army on the Eastern Front, was intended to serve as a \"kind of NATO philosophy colored with German nationalism\". About Hillgruber's statement that Hitler wanted to exterminate the Jews \"because only such a 'racial revolution' could lend permanence to the world-power status of his \"Reich\"\", Habermas wrote: \"Since Hillgruber does not use the verb in the subjunctive, one does not know whether the historian has adopted the perspective of the particulars this time too\".\n\nHabermas wrote: \"The unconditional opening of the Federal Republic to the political culture of the West is the greatest intellectual achievement of our postwar period; my generation should be especially proud of this. This event cannot and should not be stabilized by a kind of NATO philosophy colored with German nationalism. The opening of the Federal Republic has been achieved precisely by overcoming the ideology of Central Europe that our revisionists are trying to warm up for us with their geopolitical drumbeat about \"the old geographically central position of the Germans in Europe\" (Stürmer) and \"the reconstruction of the destroyed European Center\" (Hillgruber). The only patriotism that will not estrange us from the West is a constitutional patriotism.\"\n\nThe so-called \"Historikerstreit\" (\"Historians' Quarrel\") was not at all one-sided, because Habermas was himself attacked by scholars like Joachim Fest, Hagen Schulze, Horst Möller, Imanuel Geiss and Klaus Hildebrand. In turn, Habermas was supported by historians such as Martin Broszat, Eberhard Jäckel, Hans Mommsen and Hans-Ulrich Wehler.\n\nHabermas and Jacques Derrida engaged in a series of disputes beginning in the 1980s and culminating in a mutual understanding and friendship in the late 1990s that lasted until Derrida's death in 2004. They originally came in contact when Habermas invited Derrida to speak at The University of Frankfurt in 1984. The next year Habermas published \"Beyond a Temporalized Philosophy of Origins: Derrida\" in \"The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity\" in which he described Derrida's method as being unable to provide a foundation for social critique. Derrida, citing Habermas as an example, remarked that, \"those who have accused me of reducing philosophy to literature or logic to rhetoric ... have visibly and carefully avoided reading me\". After Derrida's final rebuttal in 1989 the two philosophers did not continue, but, as Derrida described it, groups in the academy \"conducted a kind of 'war', in which we ourselves never took part, either personally or directly\".\n\nAt the end of the 1990s, Habermas approached Derrida at a party held at an American university where both were lecturing. They then met at Paris over dinner, and participated afterwards in many joint projects. In 2000 they held a joint seminar on problems of philosophy, right, ethics, and politics at the University of Frankfurt. In December 2000, in Paris, Habermas gave a lecture entitled \"How to answer the ethical question?\" at the \"Judeities. Questions for Jacques Derrida\" conference organized by Joseph Cohen and Raphael Zagury-Orly. Following the lecture by Habermas, both thinkers engaged in a very heated debate on Heidegger and the possibility of Ethics. The conference volume was published at the Editions Galilée (Paris) in 2002, and subsequently in English at Fordham University Press (2007).\n\nIn the aftermath of the September 11 attacks, Derrida and Habermas laid out their individual opinions on 9/11 and the War on Terror in Giovanna Borradori's \"Philosophy in a Time of Terror: Dialogues with Jürgen Habermas and Jacques Derrida\". In early 2003, both Habermas and Derrida were very active in opposing the coming Iraq War; in a manifesto that later became the book \"Old Europe, New Europe, Core Europe\", the two called for a tighter unification of the states of the European Union in order to create a power capable of opposing American foreign policy. Derrida wrote a foreword expressing his unqualified subscription to Habermas's declaration of February 2003 (\"February 15, or, What Binds Europeans Together: Plea for a Common Foreign Policy, Beginning in Core Europe\") in the book, which was a reaction to the Bush administration's demands upon European nations for support in the coming Iraq War. Habermas has offered further context for this declaration in an interview.\n\nHabermas' attitudes toward religion have changed throughout the years. Analyst Phillippe Portier identifies three phases in Habermas' attitude towards this social sphere: the first, in the decade of 1980, when the younger Jürgen, in the spirit of Marx, argued against religion seeing it as an \"alienating reality\" and \"control tool\"; the second phase, from the mid-1980s to the beginning of the 21st Century, when he stopped discussing it and, as a secular commentator, relegated it to matters of private life; and the third, from then until now, when Habermas has recognized the positive social role of religion.\n\nIn an interview in 1999 Habermas had stated:\n\nThe original German (from the Habermas Forum website) of the disputed quotation is, \n\nThis statement has been misquoted in a number of articles and books, where Habermas instead is quoted for saying: \n\nChristianity, and nothing else, is the ultimate foundation of liberty, conscience, human rights, and democracy, the benchmarks of Western civilization. To this day, we have no other options. We continue to nourish ourselves from this source. Everything else is postmodern chatter.\n\nIn his book \"Zwischen Naturalismus und Religion\" (Between Naturalism and Religion, 2005), Habermas stated that the forces of religious strength, as a result of multiculturalism and immigration, are stronger than in previous decades, and, therefore, there is a need of tolerance which must be understood as a two-way street: secular people need to tolerate the role of religious people in the public square and vice versa;\n\nIn early 2007, Ignatius Press published a dialogue between Habermas and the then Prefect of the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith of the Holy Office Joseph Ratzinger (elected as Pope Benedict XVI in 2005), entitled \"The Dialectics of Secularization\". The dialogue took place on January 14, 2004 after an invitation to both thinkers by the Catholic Academy of Bavaria in Munich. It addressed contemporary questions such as:\n\nIn this debate a shift of Habermas became evident—in particular, his rethinking of the public role of religion. Habermas stated that he wrote as a \"methodological atheist,\" which means that when doing philosophy or social science, he presumed nothing about particular religious beliefs. Yet while writing from this perspective his evolving position towards the role of religion in society led him to some challenging questions, and as a result conceding some ground in his dialogue with the future Pope, that would seem to have consequences which further complicated the positions he holds about a communicative rational solution to the problems of modernity. Habermas believes that even for self-identified liberal thinkers, \"\"to exclude religious voices from the public square is highly illiberal.\"\n\nThough, in the first period of his career, he began as a skeptic of any social usefulness of religion, he now believes there is a social role and utilitarian moral strength in religion, and notably, that there is a necessity of Judeochristian ethics in culture.\n\nIn addition, Habermas has popularized the concept of \"post-secular\" society, to refer to current times in which the idea of modernity is perceived as unsuccessful and at times, morally failed, so that, rather than a stratification or separation, a new peaceful dialogue and coexistence between faith and reason must be sought in order to learn mutually.\n\nHabermas has sided with other 20th century commentators on Marx such as Hannah Arendt who have indicated concerns with the limits of totalitarian perspectives often associated with Marx's apparent over-estimation of the emancipatory potential of the forces of production. Arendt had presented this in her book \"The Origins of Totalitarianism\" and Habermas extends this critique in his writings on functional reductionism in the life-world in his \"Lifeworld and System: A Critique of Functionalist Reason\". As Habermas states: \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6735842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6735842", "title": "Line of flight", "text": "Line of flight\n\nA line of flight () is a concept developed by Gilles Deleuze and used extensively in his work with Félix Guattari. Translator Brian Massumi notes that in French, \"\"Fuite\" covers not only the act of fleeing or eluding but also flowing, leaking, and disappearing into the distance (the vanishing point in a painting is a \"point de fuite\"). It has no relation to flying.\"\n\nIn the first chapter of the second volume of their \"Capitalism and Schizophrenia\" project, \"A Thousand Plateaus\" (1980), the concept is used to define a \"rhizome\":\n\nMultiplicities are defined by the outside: by the abstract line, the line of flight or deterritorialization according to which they change in nature and connect with other multiplicities. The plane of consistency (grid) is the outside of all multiplicities. The line of flight marks: the reality of a finite number of dimensions that the multiplicity effectively fills; the impossibility of a supplementary dimension, unless the multiplicity is transformed by the line of flight; the possibility and necessity of flattening all of the multiplicities on a single plane of consistency or exteriority, regardless of their number of dimensions.\n\nIn Manuel De Landa's book \"Intensive Science and Virtual Philosophy\", the line of flight is described as an operator which transcends the actual and ascends to the virtual. It is used as a synonym with Deleuze's terms \"dark precursor\" (from his \"Difference and Repetition\" (1968)), \"desiring machine\" and \"quasi-cause\" (both from the first volume of \"Capitalism and Schizophrenia\", \"Anti-Œdipus\" (1972)).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "315084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=315084", "title": "Lip reading", "text": "Lip reading\n\nLip reading, also known as lipreading or speechreading, is a technique of understanding speech by visually interpreting the movements of the lips, face and tongue when normal sound is not available. It relies also on information provided by the context, knowledge of the language, and any residual hearing. Although ostensibly used by deaf and hard-of-hearing people, most people with normal hearing process some speech information from sight of the moving mouth.\n\nAlthough speech perception is considered to be an auditory skill, it is intrinsically multimodal, since producing speech requires the speaker to make movements of the lips, teeth and tongue which are often visible in face-to-face communication. Information from the lips and face supports aural comprehension and most fluent listeners of a language are sensitive to seen speech actions (see McGurk effect). The extent to which people make use of seen speech actions varies with the visibility of the speech action and the knowledge and skill of the perceiver.\n\nThe phoneme is the smallest detectable unit of sound in a language that serves to distinguish words from one another. /pit/ and /pik/ differ by one phoneme and refer to different concepts. Spoken English has about 44 phonemes. For lip reading, the number of visually distinctive units - visemes - is much smaller, thus several phonemes map onto a few visemes. This is because many phonemes are produced within the mouth and throat, and cannot be seen. These include glottal consonants and most gestures of the tongue. Voiced and unvoiced pairs look identical, such as [p] and [b], [k] and [g], [t] and [d], [f] and [v], and [s] and [z]; likewise for nasalisation (e.g. [m] vs. [b]). Homophenes are words that look similar when lip read, but which contain different phonemes. Because there are about three times as many phonemes as visemes in English, it is often claimed that only 30% of speech can be lip read. Homophenes are a crucial source of mis-lip reading.\n\nVisemes can be captured as still images, but speech unfolds in time. The smooth articulation of speech sounds in sequence can mean that mouth patterns may be ‘shaped’ by an adjacent phoneme: the ‘th’ sound in ‘tooth’ and in ‘teeth’ appears very different because of the vocalic context. This feature of dynamic speech-reading affects lip-reading 'beyond the viseme'.\n\nThe statistical distribution of phonemes within the lexicon of a language is uneven. While there are clusters of words which are phonemically similar to each other ('lexical neighbors', such as spit/sip/sit/stick...etc.), others are unlike all other words: they are 'unique' in terms of the distribution of their phonemes ('umbrella' may be an example). Skilled users of the language bring this knowledge to bear when interpreting speech, so it is generally harder to identify a heard word with many lexical neighbors than one with few neighbors. Applying this insight to seen speech, some words in the language can be unambiguously lip-read even when they contain few visemes - simply because no other words could possibly 'fit'.\n\nMany factors affect the visibility of a speaking face, including illumination, movement of the head/camera, frame-rate of the moving image and distance from the viewer (see e.g.). Head movement that accompanies normal speech can also improve lip-reading, independently of oral actions. However, when lip-reading connected speech, the viewer's knowledge of the spoken language, familiarity with the speaker and style of speech, and the context of the lip-read material are as important as the visibility of the speaker. While most hearing people are sensitive to seen speech, there is great variability in individual speechreading skill. Good lipreaders are often more accurate than poor lipreaders at identifying phonemes from visual speech.\n\nA simple visemic measure of 'lipreadability' has been questioned by some researchers. The 'phoneme equivalence class' measure takes into account the statistical structure of the lexicon and can also accommodate individual differences in lip-reading ability. In line with this, excellent lipreading is often associated with more broad-based cognitive skills including general language proficiency, executive function and working memory.\n\nSeeing the mouth plays a role in the very young infant's early sensitivity to speech, and prepares them to become speakers at 1 – 2 years. In order to imitate, a baby must learn to shape their lips in accordance with the sounds they hear; seeing the speaker may help them to do this. Newborns imitate adult mouth movements such as sticking out the tongue or opening the mouth, which could be a precursor to further imitation and later language learning. Infants are disturbed when audiovisual speech of a familiar speaker is desynchronized and tend to show different looking patterns for familiar than for unfamiliar faces when matched to (recorded) voices. Infants are sensitive to McGurk illusions months before they have learned to speak. These studies and many more point to a role for vision in the development of sensitivity to (auditory) speech in the first half-year of life.\n\nUntil around six months of age, most hearing infants are sensitive to a wide range of speech gestures - including ones that can be seen on the mouth - which may or may not later be part of the phonology of their native language. But in the second six months of life, the hearing infant shows perceptual narrowing for the phonetic structure of their own language - and may lose the early sensitivity to mouth patterns that are not useful. The speech sounds /v/ and /b/ which are visemically distinctive in English but not in Castilian Spanish are accurately distinguished in Spanish-exposed and English-exposed babies up to the age of around 6 months. However, older Spanish-exposed infants lose the ability to 'see' this distinction, while it is retained for English-exposed infants. Such studies suggest that rather than hearing and vision developing in independent ways in infancy, multimodal processing is the rule, not the exception, in (language) development of the infant brain.\n\nGiven the many studies indicating a role for vision in the development of language in the pre-lingual infant, the effects of congenital blindness on language development are surprisingly small. 18-month-olds learn new words more readily when they hear them, and do not learn them when they are shown the speech movements without hearing. However, children blind from birth can confuse /m/ and /n/ in their own early production of English words – a confusion rarely seen in sighted hearing children, since /m/ and /n/ are visibly distinctive, but auditorilly confusable. The role of vision in children aged 1–2 years may be less critical to the production of their native language, since, by that age, they have attained the skills they need to identify and imitate speech sounds. However, hearing a non-native language can shift the child's attention to visual and auditory engagement by way of lipreading and listening in order to process, understand and produce speech.\n\nStudies with pre-lingual infants and children use indirect, non-verbal measures to indicate sensitivity to seen speech. \"Explicit\" lip-reading can be reliably tested in hearing preschoolers by asking them to 'say aloud what I say silently'. In school-age children, lipreading of familiar closed-set words such as number words can be readily elicited. Individual differences in lip-reading skill, as tested by asking the child to 'speak the word that you lip-read', or by matching a lip-read utterance to a picture, show a relationship between lip-reading skill and age.\n\nWhile lip-reading silent speech poses a challenge for most hearing people, adding sight of the speaker to heard speech improves speech processing under many conditions. The mechanisms for this, and the precise ways in which lip-reading helps, are topics of current research.\nSeeing the speaker helps at all levels of speech processing from phonetic feature discrimination to interpretation of pragmatic utterances.\nThe positive effects of adding vision to heard speech are greater in noisy than quiet environments,\nwhere by making speech perception easier, seeing the speaker can free up cognitive resources, enabling deeper processing of speech content.\n\nAs hearing becomes less reliable in old-age people may tend to rely more on lip-reading, and are encouraged to do so. However, greater reliance on lip-reading may not always make good the effects of age-related hearing loss. Cognitive decline in aging may be preceded by and/or associated with measurable hearing loss. Thus lipreading may not always be able to fully compensate for the combined hearing and cognitive age-related decrements.\n\nA number of studies report anomalies of lipreading in populations with distinctive developmental disorders. Autism: People with autism may show reduced lipreading abilities and reduced reliance on vision in audiovisual speech perception. This may be associated with gaze-to-the-face anomalies in these people. Williams syndrome: People with Williams syndrome show some deficits in speechreading which may be independent of their visuo-spatial difficulties. Specific Language Impairment: Children with SLI are also reported to show reduced lipreading sensitivity, as are people with dyslexia.\n\n\"When you are deaf you live inside a well-corked glass bottle. You see the entrancing outside world, but it does not reach you. After learning to lip read, you are still inside the bottle, but the cork has come out and the outside world slowly but surely comes in to you.\" Debate has raged for hundreds of years over the role of lip-reading ('oralism') compared with other communication methods (most recently, total communication) in the education of deaf people. The extent to which one or other approach is beneficial depends on a range of factors, including level of hearing loss of the deaf person, age of hearing loss, parental involvement and parental language(s). Then there is a question concerning the aims of the deaf person and her community and carers. Is the aim of education to enhance communication generally, to develop sign language as a first language, or to develop skills in the spoken language of the hearing community? Researchers now focus on which aspects of language and communication may be best delivered by what means and in which contexts, given the hearing status of the child and her family, and their educational plans. Bimodal bilingualism (proficiency in both speech and sign language) is one dominant current approach in language education for the deaf child.\n\nDeaf people are often better lip-readers than people with normal hearing. Some deaf people practice as professional lipreaders, for instance in forensic lipreading. In deaf people who have a cochlear implant, pre-implant lip-reading skill can predict post-implant (auditory or audiovisual) speech processing. For many deaf people, access to spoken communication can be helped when a spoken message is relayed via a trained, \"professional lip-speaker\".\n\nIn connection with lipreading and literacy development, children born deaf typically show delayed development of literacy skills which can reflect difficulties in acquiring elements of the spoken language. In particular, reliable phoneme-grapheme mapping may be more difficult for deaf children, who need to be skilled speech-readers in order to master this necessary step in literacy acquisition. Lip-reading skill is associated with literacy abilities in deaf adults and children and training in lipreading may help to develop literacy skills.\n\nCued Speech uses lipreading with accompanying hand shapes that disambiguate the visemic (consonant) lipshape. Cued speech is said to be easier for hearing parents to learn than a sign language, and studies, primarily from Belgium, show that a deaf child exposed to cued speech in infancy can make more efficient progress in learning a spoken language than from lipreading alone\n. The use of cued speech in cochlear implantation for deafness is likely to be positive. A similar approach, involving the use of handshapes accompanying seen speech, is Visual Phonics, which is used by some educators to support the learning of written and spoken language.\n\nThe aim of teaching and training in lipreading is to develop awareness of the nature of lipreading, and to practice ways of improving the ability to perceive speech 'by eye'. Lipreading classes, often called \"lipreading and managing hearing loss classes\", are mainly aimed at adults who have hearing loss. The highest proportion of adults with hearing loss have an age related, or noise related loss, and with both these the high frequency sounds are lost first. Since many of the consonants in speech are high frequency sounds, speech becomes distorted. Hearing aids help, but may not cure this. Lipreading classes have been shown to be of benefit in UK studies commissioned by the charity, Action on Hearing Loss in 2012.\n\nTrainers recognise that lipreading is an inexact art. Students are taught to watch the lips, tongue and jaw movements, to follow the stress and rhythm of language, to use their residual hearing, with or without hearing aids, to watch expression and body language, and use their ability to put two and two together. They are taught the lipreaders alphabet, groups of sounds that look alike on the lips (visemes) like p, b, m, or f, v. The aim is to get the gist, so as to have the confidence to join in conversation, and avoid damaging social isolation that often accompanies hearing loss. Lipreading classes are recommended for anyone who struggles to hear in noise, and help to adjust to hearing loss.\nATLA (the association for teaching lipreading to adults) is the professional association in the UK for qualified lipreading tutors.\n\nMost tests of lipreading were devised to measure individual differences in performing specific speech processing tasks, and to detect changes in performance following training. Lipreading tests have been used with relatively small groups in experimental settings, or as clinical indicators with individual patients and clients. That is, lipreading tests to date have limited validity as markers of lipreading skill in the general population.\n\nAutomated lip-reading has been a topic of interest in computational engineering, as well as in . The computational engineer Steve Omohundro, among others, pioneered its development. In facial animation, the aim is to generate realistic facial actions, especially mouth movements, that simulate human speech actions. Computer algorithms to deform or manipulate images of faces can be driven by heard or written language. Systems may be based on detailed models derived from facial movements (motion capture); on anatomical modelling of actions of the jaw, mouth and tongue; or on mapping of known viseme- phoneme properties. Facial animation has been used in speechreading training (demonstrating how different sounds 'look'). These systems are a subset of speech synthesis modelling which aim to deliver reliable 'text-to-(seen)-speech' outputs. A complementary aim—the reverse of making faces move in speech—is to develop computer algorithms that can deliver realistic interpretations of speech (i.e. a written transcript or audio record) from natural video data of a face in action: this is facial speech recognition. These models too can be sourced from a variety of data. Automatic visual speech recognition from video has been quite successful in distinguishing different languages (from a corpus of spoken language data). Demonstration models, using machine-learning algorithms, have had some success in lipreading speech elements, such as specific words, from video and for identifying hard-to-lipread phonemes from visemically similar seen mouth actions. Machine-based speechreading is now making successful use of neural-net based algorithms which use large databases of speakers and speech material (following the successful model for auditory automatic speech recognition).\n\nUses for machine lipreading could include automated lipreading of video-only records, automated lipreading of speakers with damaged vocal tracts, and speech processing in face-to-face video (i.e. from videophone data). Automated lipreading may help in processing noisy or unfamiliar speech. Automated lipreading may contribute to biometric person identification, replacing password-based identification.\n\nFollowing the discovery that auditory brain regions, including Heschl's gyrus, were activated by seen speech, the neural circuitry for speechreading was shown to include supra-modal processing regions, especially superior temporal sulcus (all parts) as well as posterior inferior occipital-temporal regions including regions specialised for the processing of faces and biological motion. In some but not all studies, activation of Broca's area is reported for speechreading, suggesting that articulatory mechanisms can be activated in speechreading. Studies of the time course of audiovisual speech processing showed that sight of speech can prime auditory processing regions in advance of the acoustic signal. Better lipreading skill is associated with greater activation in (left) superior temporal sulcus and adjacent inferior temporal (visual) regions in hearing people. In deaf people, the circuitry devoted to speechreading appears to be very similar to that in hearing people, with similar associations of (left) superior temporal activation and lipreading skill.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "734644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734644", "title": "List of axioms", "text": "List of axioms\n\nThis is a list of axioms as that term is understood in mathematics, by Wikipedia page. In epistemology, the word \"axiom\" is understood differently; see axiom and self-evidence. Individual axioms are almost always part of a larger axiomatic system.\n\n\"Together with the axiom of choice (see below), these are the\" de facto \"standard axioms for contemporary mathematics or set theory. They can be easily adapted to analogous theories, such as mereology.\"\n\n\nSee also Zermelo set theory.\n\n\"With the Zermelo–Fraenkel axioms above, this makes up the system ZFC in which most mathematics is potentially formalisable.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24812601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24812601", "title": "Magnetic braking", "text": "Magnetic braking\n\nMagnetic braking is a theory explaining the loss of stellar angular momentum due to material getting captured by the stellar magnetic field and thrown out at great distance from the surface of the star. It plays an important role in the evolution of binary star systems.\n\nThe currently accepted theory of the solar system's evolution states that the Solar System originates from a contracting gas cloud. As the cloud contracts, the angular momentum formula_1 must be conserved. Any small net rotation of the cloud will cause the spin to increase as the cloud collapses, forcing the material into a rotating disk. At the dense center of this disk a protostar forms, which gains heat from the gravitational energy of the collapse. As the collapse continues, the rotation rate can increase to the point where the accreting protostar can break up due to centrifugal force at the equator.\n\nThus the rotation rate must be braked during the first 100,000 years of the star's life to avoid this scenario. One possible explanation for the braking is the interaction of the protostar's magnetic field with the stellar wind. In the case of our own Sun, when the planets' angular momenta are compared to the Sun's own, the Sun has less than 1% of its supposed angular momentum. In other words, the Sun has slowed down its spin while the planets have not.\n\nIonized material captured by the magnetic field lines will rotate with the Sun as if it were a solid body. As material escapes from the Sun due to the solar wind, the highly ionized material will be captured by the field lines and rotate with the same angular velocity as the Sun, even though it is carried far away from the Sun's surface, until it eventually escapes. This effect of carrying mass far from the centre of the Sun and throwing it away slows down the spin of the Sun. The same effect is used in slowing the spin of a rotating satellite; here two wires spool out weights to a distance slowing the satellites spin, then the wires are cut, letting the weights escape into space and permanently robbing the spacecraft of its angular momentum.\n\nAs ionized material follows the Sun's magnetic field lines, due to the effect of the field lines being frozen in the plasma, the charged particles feel a force formula_2 of the magnitude:\nwhere formula_4 is the charge, formula_5 is the velocity and formula_6 is the magnetic field vector. This bending action forces the particles to \"corkscrew\" around the magnetic field lines while held in place by a \"magnetic pressure\"formula_7, or \"energy density\", while rotating together with the Sun as a solid body:\n\nSince magnetic field strength decreases with the cube of the distance there will be a place where the kinetic gas pressure formula_9 of the ionized gas is great enough to break away from the field lines:\n\nwhere n is the number of particles, m is the mass of the individual particle and v is the radial velocity away from the Sun, or the speed of the solar wind.\n\nThe magnetic field strength as a function of radius can be approximated as:\n\nThe critical distance where the material will break away from the field lines can then be calculated as the distance where the kinetic pressure and the magnetic pressure are equal, i.e.\n\nIf the solar mass loss is omni-directional then the mass loss formula_15; plugging this into the above equation and isolating the critical radius it follows that\n\nCurrently it is estimated that:\n\nThis leads to a critical radius formula_20. This means that the ionized plasma will rotate together with the Sun as a solid body until it reaches a distance of nearly 3.4 the radius of the Sun; from there the material will break off and stop affecting the Sun.\n\nThe amount of solar mass needed to be thrown out along the field lines to make the Sun completely stop rotating can then be calculated using the specific angular momentum:\nAbout 1/10 of the solar mass should thus have been lost by now due to this effect, but if the present mass loss rate was stable throughout the Sun's \"life\" only about 0.01% of the Sun's original mass would have been lost. This indicates that either the Sun's mass loss must have been higher in the past or that the Sun's magnetic field has been much stronger.\n\n"}
{"id": "1674626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1674626", "title": "Metamodeling", "text": "Metamodeling\n\nA metamodel or surrogate model is a model of a model, and metamodeling is the process of generating such metamodels. Thus metamodeling or meta-modeling is the analysis, construction and development of the frames, rules, constraints, models and theories applicable and useful for modeling a predefined class of problems. As its name implies, this concept applies the notions of meta- and modeling in software engineering and systems engineering. Metamodels are of many types and have diverse applications.\n\nA metamodel or surrogate model is a model of the model, i.e. a simplified model of an actual model of a circuit, system, or software like entity. Metamodel can be a mathematical relation or algorithm representing input and output relations. A model is an abstraction of phenomena in the real world; a metamodel is yet another abstraction, highlighting properties of the model itself. A model conforms to its metamodel in the way that a computer program conforms to the grammar of the programming language in which it is written. Various types of metamodels include polynomial equations, neural network, Kriging, etc. \"Metamodeling\" is the construction of a collection of \"concepts\" (things, terms, etc.) within a certain domain. Metamodeling typically involves studying the output and input relationships and then fitting right metamodels to represent that behavior. \n\nCommon uses for metamodels are:\n\nBecause of the \"meta\" character of metamodeling, both the praxis and theory of metamodels are of relevance to metascience, metaphilosophy, metatheories and systemics, and meta-consciousness. The concept can be useful in mathematics, and has practical applications in computer science and computer engineering/software engineering. The latter are the main focus of this article.\n\nIn software engineering, the use of models is an alternative to more common code-based development techniques. A model always conforms to a unique metamodel. One of the currently most active branch of Model Driven Engineering is the approach named model-driven architecture proposed by OMG. This approach is based on the utilization of a language to write metamodels called the Meta Object Facility or MOF. Typical metamodels proposed by OMG are UML, SysML, SPEM or CWM. ISO has also published the standard metamodel ISO/IEC 24744. All the languages presented below could be defined as MOF metamodels.\n\nMetadata modeling is a type of metamodeling used in software engineering and systems engineering for the analysis and construction of models applicable and useful to some predefined class of problems. (see also: data modeling).\n\nOne important move in Model Driven Engineering is the systematic use of Model Transformation Languages. The OMG has proposed a standard for this called QVT for Queries/Views/Transformations. QVT is based on the Meta-Object Facility or MOF. Among many other Model Transformation Languages (MTLs), some examples of implementations of this standard are AndroMDA, VIATRA, Tefkat, MT, ManyDesigns Portofino.\n\nMeta-models are closely related to ontologies. Both are often used to describe and analyze the relations between concepts\n\nFor software engineering, several \"types\" of models (and their corresponding modeling activities) can be distinguished:\n\nA library of similar metamodels has been called a Zoo of metamodels.\nThere are several types of meta-model zoos. Some are expressed in ECore. Others are written in MOF 1.4 - XMI 1.2. The metamodels expressed in UML-XMI1.2 may be uploaded in Poseidon for UML, a UML CASE tool.\n\n"}
{"id": "22063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22063", "title": "Natural law", "text": "Natural law\n\nNatural law (, \"lex naturalis\") is a philosophy asserting that certain rights are inherent by virtue of human nature, endowed by nature—traditionally by God or a transcendent source—and that these can be understood universally through human reason. As determined by nature, the law of nature is implied to be objective and universal; it exists independently of human understanding, and of the positive law of a given state, political order, legislature or society at large.\n\nHistorically, natural law refers to the use of reason to analyze human nature to deduce binding rules of moral behavior from nature's or God's creation of reality and mankind. The concept of natural law was documented in ancient Greek philosophy, including Aristotle, and was referred to in Roman philosophy by Cicero. References to natural law are also found in the Old and New Testaments of the Bible, later expounded upon in the Middle Ages by Christian philosophers such as Albert the Great and Thomas Aquinas. The School of Salamanca made notable contributions during the Renaissance. Modern natural law theories were greatly developed in the Age of Enlightenment, combining inspiration from Roman law with philosophies like social contract theory. Key proponents were Alberico Gentili, Francisco Suárez, Richard Hooker, Thomas Hobbes, Hugo Grotius, Samuel von Pufendorf, Matthew Hale, John Locke, Francis Hutcheson, Jean Jacques Burlamaqui, Emmerich de Vattel, Cesare Beccaria and Francesco Mario Pagano. It was used to challenge the divine right of kings, and became an alternative justification for the establishment of a social contract, positive law, and government—and thus legal rights—in the form of classical republicanism. Conversely, the concept of natural rights is used by others to challenge the legitimacy of all such establishments.\n\nContemporarily, the concept of natural law is closely related to the concept of natural rights. Indeed, many philosophers, jurists and scholars use natural law synonymously with natural rights (), or natural justice. while others distinguish between natural law and natural right.\n\nBecause of the intersection between natural law and natural rights, natural law has been cited as a component in the United States Declaration of Independence (1776), and claimed by natural law proponents thus to be incorporated into its constitution, as well as in the French \"Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen\" (1789), hence providing a foundation for the \"Universal Declaration of Human Rights\" (1948) of the United Nations General Assembly.\n\nThe use of natural law, in its various incarnations, has varied widely throughout history. There are a number of theories of natural law, that differ from each other with respect to the role that morality plays in determining the authority of legal norms. This article deals with its usages separately rather than attempt to unify them into a single theory.\n\nThose who see biblical support for the doctrine of natural law often point to Abraham's interrogation of God on behalf of the iniquitous city of Sodom. Abraham even dares to tell the Most High that his plan to destroy the city (Genesis 18:25) would violate God’s own justice: “That be far from Thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, that so the righteous should be as the wicked; that be far from Thee; shall not the Judge of all the earth do justly?\" This almost Socratic reply became for later writers the beginnings of natural rights theory. In this respect, natural law as described in the interaction between Abraham and God predates the later Greek exposition of it by Plato, Socrates and Aristotle.\n\nHowever, an even earlier set of laws is attributed to the Seven Laws of Noah. The seven Noahide laws as traditionally enumerated are the following:\nAccording to the Genesis flood narrative, a deluge covered the whole world, killing every surface-dwelling creature except Noah, his wife, his sons and their wives, and the animals taken aboard Noah's Ark. According to this, all modern humans are descendants of Noah, thus the name Noahide Laws in reference to laws that apply to all of humanity. After the flood, God sealed a covenantwith Noah with the following admonitions ():\n\nAlthough Plato did not have an explicit theory of natural law (he rarely used the phrase 'natural law' except in \"Gorgias\" 484 and \"Timaeus\" 83e), his concept of nature, according to John Wild, contains some of the elements found in many natural law theories. According to Plato, we live in an orderly universe. The basis of this orderly universe or nature are the forms, most fundamentally the Form of the Good, which Plato describes as \"the brightest region of Being\". The Form of the Good is the cause of all things, and when it is seen it leads a person to act wisely. In the \"Symposium\", the Good is closely identified with the Beautiful. In the \"Symposium\", Plato describes how the experience of the Beautiful by Socrates enabled him to resist the temptations of wealth and sex. In the \"Republic\", the ideal community is \"a city which would be established in accordance with nature\".\n\nGreek philosophy emphasized the distinction between \"nature\" (\"physis\", \"φúσις\") on the one hand and \"law\", \"custom\", or \"convention\" (\"nomos\", \"νóμος\") on the other. What the law commanded would be expected to vary from place to place, but what was \"by nature\" should be the same everywhere. A \"law of nature\" would therefore have the flavor more of a paradox than something that obviously existed. Against the conventionalism that the distinction between nature and custom could engender, Socrates and his philosophic heirs, Plato and Aristotle, posited the existence of natural justice or natural right (\"dikaion physikon\", \"δικαιον φυσικον\", Latin \"ius naturale\"). Of these, Aristotle is often said to be the father of natural law.\n\nAristotle's association with natural law may be due to the interpretation given to his works by Thomas Aquinas. But whether Aquinas correctly read Aristotle is in dispute. According to some, Aquinas conflates natural law and natural right, the latter of which Aristotle posits in Book V of the \"Nicomachean Ethics\" (Book IV of the \"Eudemian Ethics\"). According to this interpretation, Aquinas's influence was such as to affect a number of early translations of these passages in an unfortunate manner, though more recent translations render those more literally. Aristotle notes that natural justice is a species of political justice, specifically the scheme of distributive and corrective justice that would be established under the best political community; were this to take the form of law, this could be called a natural law, though Aristotle does not discuss this and suggests in the \"Politics\" that the best regime may not rule by law at all.\n\nThe best evidence of Aristotle's having thought there was a natural law comes from the \"Rhetoric\", where Aristotle notes that, aside from the \"particular\" laws that each people has set up for itself, there is a \"common\" law that is according to nature. Specifically, he quotes Sophocles and Empedocles:\n\nUniversal law is the law of Nature. For there really is, as every one to some extent divines, a natural justice and injustice that is binding on all men, even on those who have no association or covenant with each other. It is this that Sophocles' Antigone clearly means when she says that the burial of Polyneices was a just act in spite of the prohibition: she means that it was just by nature:\n\nAnd so Empedocles, when he bids us kill no living creature, he is saying that to do this is not just for some people, while unjust for others:\n\nSome critics believe that the context of this remark suggests only that Aristotle advised that it could be rhetorically advantageous to appeal to such a law, especially when the \"particular\" law of one's own city was averse to the case being made, not that there actually was such a law; Moreover, they claim that Aristotle considered two of the three candidates for a universally valid, natural law provided in this passage to be wrong. Aristotle's paternity of natural law tradition is consequently disputed.\n\nThe development of this tradition of natural justice into one of natural law is usually attributed to the Stoics. The rise of natural law as a universal system coincided with the rise of large empires and kingdoms in the Greek world. Whereas the \"higher\" law that Aristotle suggested one could appeal to was emphatically natural, in contradistinction to being the result of divine positive legislation, the Stoic natural law was indifferent to either the natural or divine source of the law: the Stoics asserted the existence of a rational and purposeful order to the universe (a divine or eternal law), and the means by which a rational being lived in accordance with this order was the natural law, which inspired actions that accorded with virtue.\n\nAs the English historian A. J. Carlyle (1861–1943) notes:\n\nThere is no change in political theory so startling in its completeness as the change from the theory of Aristotle to the later philosophical view represented by Cicero and Seneca ... We think that this cannot be better exemplified than with regard to the theory of the equality of human nature.\" Charles H. McIlwain likewise observes that \"the idea of the equality of men is the most profound contribution of the Stoics to political thought\" and that \"its greatest influence is in the changed conception of law that in part resulted from it.\nNatural law first appeared among the stoics who believed that God is everywhere and in everyone (see classical pantheism). According to this belief, within humans there is a \"divine spark\" which helps them to live in accordance with nature. The stoics felt that there was a way in which the universe had been designed, and that natural law helped us to harmonise with this.\n\nCicero wrote in his De Legibus that both justice and law originate from what nature has given to humanity, from what the human mind embraces, from the function of humanity, and from what serves to unite humanity. For Cicero, natural law obliges us to contribute to the general good of the larger society. The purpose of positive laws is to provide for \"the safety of citizens, the preservation of states, and the tranquility and happiness of human life.\" In this view, \"wicked and unjust statutes\" are \"anything but 'laws,'\" because \"in the very definition of the term 'law' there inheres the idea and principle of choosing what is just and true.\" Law, for Cicero, \"ought to be a reformer of vice and an incentive to virtue.\" Cicero expressed the view that \"the virtues which we ought to cultivate, always tend to our own happiness, and that the best means of promoting them consists in living with men in that perfect union and charity which are cemented by mutual benefits.\"\n\nIn De Re Publica, he writes:\nCicero influenced the discussion of natural law for many centuries to come, up through the era of the American Revolution. The jurisprudence of the Roman Empire was rooted in Cicero, who held \"an extraordinary grip ... upon the imagination of posterity\" as \"the medium for the propagation of those ideas which informed the law and institutions of the empire.\" Cicero's conception of natural law \"found its way to later centuries notably through the writings of Saint Isidore of Seville and the Decretum of Gratian.\" Thomas Aquinas, in his summary of medieval natural law, quoted Cicero's statement that \"nature\" and \"custom\" were the sources of a society's laws.\n\nThe Renaissance Italian historian Leonardo Bruni praised Cicero as the person \"who carried philosophy from Greece to Italy, and nourished it with the golden river of his eloquence.\" The legal culture of Elizabethan England, exemplified by Sir Edward Coke, was \"steeped in Ciceronian rhetoric.\" The Scottish moral philosopher Francis Hutcheson, as a student at Glasgow, \"was attracted most by Cicero, for whom he always professed the greatest admiration.\" More generally in eighteenth-century Great Britain, Cicero's name was a household word among educated people. Likewise, \"in the admiration of early Americans Cicero took pride of place as orator, political theorist, stylist, and moralist.\"\n\nThe British polemicist Thomas Gordon \"incorporated Cicero into the radical ideological tradition that travelled from the mother country to the colonies in the course of the eighteenth century and decisively shaped early American political culture.\" Cicero's description of the immutable, eternal, and universal natural law was quoted by Burlamaqui and later by the American revolutionary legal scholar James Wilson. Cicero became John Adams's \"foremost model of public service, republican virtue, and forensic eloquence.\" Adams wrote of Cicero that \"as all the ages of the world have not produced a greater statesman and philosopher united in the same character, his authority should have great weight.\" Thomas Jefferson \"first encountered Cicero as a schoolboy while learning Latin, and continued to read his letters and discourses throughout his life. He admired him as a patriot, valued his opinions as a moral philosopher, and there is little doubt that he looked upon Cicero's life, with his love of study and aristocratic country life, as a model for his own.\" Jefferson described Cicero as \"the father of eloquence and philosophy.\"\n\nThe New Testament carries a further exposition on the Abrahamic dialogue and links to the later Greek exposition on the subject, when Paul's Epistle to the Romans states: \"For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves: Which shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. The intellectual historian A. J. Carlyle has commented on this passage, \"There can be little doubt that St Paul's words imply some conception analogous to the 'natural law' in Cicero, a law written in men's hearts, recognized by man's reason, a law distinct from the positive law of any State, or from what St Paul recognized as the revealed law of God. It is in this sense that St Paul's words are taken by the Fathers of the fourth and fifth centuries like St Hilary of Poitiers, St Ambrose, and St Augustine, and there seems no reason to doubt the correctness of their interpretation.\"\n\nBecause of its origins in the Old Testament, early Church Fathers, especially those in the West, saw natural law as part of the natural foundation of Christianity. The most notable among these was Augustine of Hippo, who equated natural law with humanity's prelapsarian state; as such, a life according to unbroken human nature was no longer possible and persons needed instead to seek healing and salvation through the divine law and grace of Jesus Christ.\n\nIn the twelfth century, Gratian equated the natural law with divine law. Albertus Magnus would address the subject a century later, and his pupil, St. Thomas Aquinas, in his \"Summa Theologica\" I-II qq. 90–106, restored Natural Law to its independent state, asserting natural law as the rational creature's participation in the eternal law. Yet, since human reason could not fully comprehend the Eternal law, it needed to be supplemented by revealed Divine law. (See also Biblical law in Christianity.) Meanwhile, Aquinas taught that all human or positive laws were to be judged by their conformity to the natural law. An unjust law is not a law, in the full sense of the word. It retains merely the 'appearance' of law insofar as it is duly constituted and enforced in the same way a just law is, but is itself a 'perversion of law.' At this point, the natural law was not only used to pass judgment on the moral worth of various laws, but also to determine what those laws meant in the first place. This principle laid the seed for possible societal tension with reference to tyrants.\n\nThe natural law was inherently teleological, however, it is most assuredly not deontological. For Christians, natural law is how human beings manifest the divine image in their life. This mimicry of God's own life is impossible to accomplish except by means of the power of grace. Thus, whereas deontological systems merely require certain duties be performed, Christianity explicitly states that no one can, in fact, perform any duties if grace is lacking. For Christians, natural law flows not from divine commands, but from the fact that humanity is made in God's image, humanity is empowered by God's grace. Living the natural law is how humanity displays the gifts of life and grace, the gifts of all that is good. Consequences are in God's hands, consequences are generally not within human control, thus in natural law, actions are judged by three things: (1) the person's intent, (2) the circumstances of the act and (3) the nature of the act. The apparent good or evil consequence resulting from the moral act is not relevant to the act itself. The specific content of the natural law is therefore determined by how each person's acts mirror God's internal life of love. Insofar as one lives the natural law, temporal satisfaction may or may not be attained, but salvation will be attained. The state, in being bound by the natural law, is conceived as an institution whose purpose is to assist in bringing its subjects to true happiness. True happiness derives from living in harmony with the mind of God as an image of the living God.\n\nIn the 16th century, the School of Salamanca (Francisco Suárez, Francisco de Vitoria, etc.) further developed a philosophy of natural law.\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, some Protestant denominations maintained parts of the Catholic concept of natural law. The English theologian Richard Hooker from the Church of England adapted Thomistic notions of natural law to Anglicanism five principles: to live, to learn, to reproduce, to worship God, and to live in an ordered society.\n\nAbū Rayhān al-Bīrūnī, an Islamic scholar and polymath scientist, understood natural law as the survival of the fittest. He argued that the antagonism between human beings can only be overcome through a divine law, which he believed to have been sent through prophets. This is also the position of the Ashari school, the largest school of Sunni theology. Averroes (Ibn Rushd), in his treatise on \"Justice and Jihad\" and his commentary on Plato's \"Republic\", writes that the human mind can know of the unlawfulness of killing and stealing and thus of the five maqasid or higher intents of the Islamic sharia or to protect religion, life, property, offspring, and reason. The concept of natural law entered the mainstream of Western culture through his Aristotelian commentaries, influencing the subsequent Averroist movement and the writings of Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThe Maturidi school, the second largest school of Sunni theology, posits the existence of a form of natural law. Abu Mansur al-Maturidi stated that the human mind could know of the existence of God and the major forms of 'good' and 'evil' without the help of revelation. Al-Maturidi gives the example of stealing, which is known to be evil by reason alone due to people's working hard for their property. Killing, fornication, and drinking alcohol were all 'evils' the human mind could know of according to al-Maturidi. The concept of \"Istislah\" in Islamic law bears some similarities to the natural law tradition in the West, as exemplified by Thomas Aquinas. However, whereas natural law deems good what is self-evidently good, according as it tends towards the fulfilment of the person, \"istislah\" calls good whatever is connected to one of five \"basic goods\". Al-Ghazali abstracted these \"basic goods\" from the legal precepts in the Qur'an and Sunnah: they are religion, life, reason, lineage and property. Some add also \"honour\". Ibn Qayyim Al-Jawziyya also posited that human reason could discern between 'great sins' and good deeds.\n\nEarly Irish law, An Senchus Mor (The Great Tradition) mentions in a number of places \"recht aicned\" or natural law. This is a concept predating European legal theory, and reflects a type of law that is universal and may be determined by reason and observation of natural action. Neil McLeod identifies concepts that law must accord with: fír (truth) and dliged (right or entitlement). These two terms occur frequently, though Irish law never strictly defines them. Similarly, the term córus (law in accordance with proper order) occurs in some places, and even in the titles of certain texts. These were two very real concepts to the jurists and the value of a given judgment with respect to them was apparently ascertainable. McLeod has also suggested that most of the specific laws mentioned have passed the test of time and thus their truth has been confirmed, while other provisions are justified in other ways because they are younger and have not been tested over time The laws were written in the oldest dialect of the Irish language, called Bérla Féini [Bairla-faina], which even at the time was so difficult that persons about to become brehons had to be specially instructed in it, the length of time from beginning to becoming a learned Brehon was usually 20 years. Although under the law any third person could fulfill the duty if both parties agreed, and both were sane. It has been included in an Ethno-Celtic breakaway subculture, as it has religious undertones and freedom of religious expression allows it to once again be used as a valid system in Western Europe.\n\nThe Catholic Church holds the view of natural law introduced by Albertus Magnus and elaborated by Thomas Aquinas, particularly in his \"Summa Theologiae\", and often as filtered through the School of Salamanca. This view is also shared by some Protestants, and was delineated by Anglican writer C. S. Lewis in his works \"Mere Christianity\" and \"The Abolition of Man.\n\nThe Catholic Church understands human beings to consist of body and mind, the physical and the non-physical (or soul perhaps), and that the two are inextricably linked. Humans are capable of discerning the difference between good and evil because they have a conscience. There are many manifestations of the good that we can pursue. Some, like procreation, are common to other animals, while others, like the pursuit of truth, are inclinations peculiar to the capacities of human beings.\n\nTo know what is right, one must use one's reason and apply it to Thomas Aquinas' precepts. This reason is believed to be embodied, in its most abstract form, in the concept of a primary precept: \"Good is to be sought, evil avoided.\" St. Thomas explains that:\nthere belongs to the natural law, first, certain most general precepts, that are known to all;\nHowever, while the primary and immediate precepts cannot be \"blotted out\", the secondary precepts can be. Therefore, for a deontological ethical theory they are open to a surprisingly large amount of interpretation and flexibility. Any rule that helps humanity to live up to the primary or subsidiary precepts can be a secondary precept, for example:\n\nNatural moral law is concerned with both exterior and interior acts, also known as action and motive. Simply doing the right thing is not enough; to be truly moral one's motive must be right as well. For example, helping an old lady across the road (good exterior act) to impress someone (bad interior act) is wrong. However, good intentions don't always lead to good actions. The motive must coincide with the cardinal or theological virtues. Cardinal virtues are acquired through reason applied to nature; they are:\n\nThe theological virtues are:\n\n\nAccording to Aquinas, to lack any of these virtues is to lack the ability to make a moral choice. For example, consider a person who possesses the virtues of justice, prudence, and fortitude, yet lacks temperance. Due to their lack of self-control and desire for pleasure, despite their good intentions, they will find themself swaying from the moral path.\n\nHeinrich A. Rommen remarked upon \"the tenacity with which the spirit of the English common law retained the conceptions of natural law and equity which it had assimilated during the Catholic Middle Ages, thanks especially to the influence of Henry de Bracton (d. 1268) and Sir John Fortescue (d. cir. 1476).\" Bracton's translator notes that Bracton \"was a trained jurist with the principles and distinctions of Roman jurisprudence firmly in mind\"; but Bracton adapted such principles to English purposes rather than copying slavishly. In particular, Bracton turned the imperial Roman maxim that \"the will of the prince is law\" on its head, insisting that the king is \"under\" the law. The legal historian Charles F. Mullett has noted Bracton's \"ethical definition of law, his recognition of justice, and finally his devotion to natural rights.\" Bracton considered justice to be the \"fountain-head\" from which \"all rights arise.\" For his definition of justice, Bracton quoted the twelfth-century Italian jurist Azo: \"'Justice is the constant and unfailing will to give to each his right.'\" Bracton's work was the second legal treatise studied by the young apprentice lawyer Thomas Jefferson.\n\nFortescue stressed \"the supreme importance of the law of God and of nature\" in works that \"profoundly influenced the course of legal development in the following centuries.\" The legal scholar Ellis Sandoz has noted that \"the historically ancient and the ontologically higher law—eternal, divine, natural—are woven together to compose a single harmonious texture in Fortescue's account of English law.\" As the legal historian Norman Doe explains: \"Fortescue follows the general pattern set by Aquinas. The objective of every legislator is to dispose people to virtue. It is by means of law that this is accomplished. Fortescue's definition of law (also found in Accursius and Bracton), after all, was 'a sacred sanction commanding what is virtuous [\"honesta\"] and forbidding the contrary.'\" Fortescue cited the great Italian Leonardo Bruni for his statement that \"virtue alone produces happiness.\"\n\nChristopher St. Germain's \"Doctor and Student\" was a classic of English jurisprudence, and it was thoroughly annotated by Thomas Jefferson. St. Germain informs his readers that English lawyers generally don't use the phrase \"law of nature\", but rather use \"reason\" as the preferred synonym. Norman Doe notes that St. Germain's view \"is essentially Thomist,\" quoting Thomas Aquinas's definition of law as \"an ordinance of reason made for the common good by him who has charge of the community, and promulgated\".\n\nSir Edward Coke was the preeminent jurist of his time. Coke's preeminence extended across the ocean: \"For the American revolutionary leaders, 'law' meant Sir Edward Coke's custom and right reason.\" Coke defined law as \"perfect reason, which commands those things that are proper and necessary and which prohibits contrary things\". For Coke, human nature determined the purpose of law; and law was superior to any one person's reason or will. Coke's discussion of natural law appears in his report of \"Calvin's Case\" (1608): \"The law of nature is that which God at the time of creation of the nature of man infused into his heart, for his preservation and direction.\" In this case the judges found that \"the ligeance or faith of the subject is due unto the King by the law of nature: secondly, that the law of nature is part of the law of England: thirdly, that the law of nature was before any judicial or municipal law: fourthly, that the law of nature is immutable.\" To support these findings, the assembled judges (as reported by Coke, who was one of them) cited as authorities Aristotle, Cicero, and the Apostle Paul; as well as Bracton, Fortescue, and St. Germain.\n\nAfter Coke, the most famous common law jurist of the seventeenth century is Sir Matthew Hale. Hale wrote a treatise on natural law that circulated among English lawyers in the eighteenth century and survives in three manuscript copies. This natural-law treatise has been published as \"Of the Law of Nature\" (2015). Hale's definition of the natural law reads: \"It is the Law of Almighty God given by him to Man with his Nature discovering the morall good and moral evill of Moral Actions, commanding the former, and forbidding the latter by the secret voice or dictate of his implanted nature, his reason, and his concience.\" He viewed natural law as antecedent, preparatory, and subsequent to civil government, and stated that human law \"cannot forbid what the Law of Nature injoins, nor Command what the Law of Nature prohibits.\" He cited as authorities Plato, Aristotle, Cicero, Seneca, Epictetus, and the Apostle Paul. He was critical of Hobbes's reduction of natural law to self-preservation and Hobbes's account of the state of nature, but drew positively on Hugo Grotius's \"De jure belli ac pacis\", Francisco Suárez's \"Tractatus de legibus ac deo legislatore\", and John Selden's \"De jure naturali et gentium juxta disciplinam Ebraeorum\".\n\nAs early as the thirteenth century, it was held that \"the law of nature...is the ground of all laws\" and by the Chancellor and Judges that \"it is required by the law of nature that every person, before he can be punish'd, ought to be present; and if absent by contumacy, he ought to be summoned and make default\". Further, in 1824, we find it held that \"proceedings in our Courts are founded upon the law of England, and that law is again founded upon the law of nature and the revealed law of God. If the right sought to be enforced is inconsistent with either of these, the English municipal courts cannot recognize it.\"\n\nBy the 17th century, the medieval teleological view came under intense criticism from some quarters. Thomas Hobbes instead founded a contractarian theory of legal positivism on what all men could agree upon: what they sought (happiness) was subject to contention, but a broad consensus could form around what they feared (violent death at the hands of another). The natural law was how a rational human being, seeking to survive and prosper, would act. Natural law, therefore, was discovered by considering humankind's natural rights, whereas previously it could be said that natural rights were discovered by considering the natural law. In Hobbes' opinion, the only way natural law could prevail was for men to submit to the commands of the sovereign. Because the ultimate source of law now comes from the sovereign, and the sovereign's decisions need not be grounded in morality, legal positivism is born. Jeremy Bentham's modifications on legal positivism further developed the theory.\n\nAs used by Thomas Hobbes in his treatises \"Leviathan\" and \"De Cive\", natural law is \"a precept, or general rule, found out by reason, by which a man is forbidden to do that which is destructive of his life, or takes away the means of preserving the same; and to omit that by which he thinks it may best be preserved.\"\n\nAccording to Hobbes, there are nineteen Laws. The first two are expounded in chapter XIV of Leviathan (\"of the first and second natural laws; and of contracts\"); the others in chapter XV (\"of other laws of nature\").\n\nHobbes's philosophy includes a frontal assault on the founding principles of the earlier natural legal tradition, disregarding the traditional association of virtue with happiness, and likewise re-defining \"law\" to remove any notion of the promotion of the common good. Hobbes has no use for Aristotle's association of nature with human perfection, inverting Aristotle's use of the word \"nature.\" Hobbes posits a primitive, unconnected state of nature in which men, having a \"natural proclivity...to hurt each other\" also have \"a Right to every thing, even to one anothers body\"; and \"nothing can be Unjust\" in this \"warre of every man against every man\" in which human life is \"solitary, poore, nasty, brutish, and short.\" Rejecting Cicero's view that people join in society primarily through \"a certain social spirit which nature has implanted in man,\" Hobbes declares that men join in society simply for the purpose of \"getting themselves out from that miserable condition of Warre, which is necessarily consequent...to the naturall Passions of men, when there is no visible Power to keep them in awe.\" As part of his campaign against the classical idea of natural human sociability, Hobbes inverts that fundamental natural legal maxim, the Golden Rule. Hobbes's version is \"Do not that to another, which thou wouldst not have done to thy selfe.\"\n\nThe English cleric Richard Cumberland wrote a lengthy and influential attack on Hobbes's depiction of individual self-interest as the essential feature of human motivation. Historian Knud Haakonssen has noted that in the eighteenth century, Cumberland was commonly placed alongside Alberico Gentili, Hugo Grotius and Samuel Pufendorf \"in the triumvirate of seventeenth-century founders of the 'modern' school of natural law.\" The eighteenth-century philosophers Shaftesbury and Hutcheson \"were obviously inspired in part by Cumberland.\" Historian Jon Parkin likewise describes Cumberland's work as \"one of the most important works of ethical and political theory of the seventeenth century.\" Parkin observes that much of Cumberland's material \"is derived from Roman Stoicism, particularly from the work of Cicero, as \"Cumberland deliberately cast his engagement with Hobbes in the mould of Cicero's debate between the Stoics, who believed that nature could provide an objective morality, and Epicureans, who argued that morality was human, conventional and self-interested.\" In doing so, Cumberland de-emphasized the overlay of Christian dogma (in particular, the doctrine of \"original sin\" and the corresponding presumption that humans are incapable of \"perfecting\" themselves without divine intervention) that had accreted to natural law in the Middle Ages.\n\nBy way of contrast to Hobbes's multiplicity of laws, Cumberland states in the very first sentence of his \"Treatise of the Laws of Nature\" that \"all the Laws of Nature are reduc'd to that one, of Benevolence toward all Rationals.\" He later clarifies: \"By the name \"Rationals\" I beg leave to understand, as well \"God\" as \"Man\"; and I do it upon the Authority of Cicero.\" Cumberland argues that the mature development (\"perfection\") of human nature involves the individual human willing and acting for the common good. For Cumberland, human interdependence precludes Hobbes's natural right of each individual to wage war against all the rest for personal survival. However, Haakonssen warns against reading Cumberland as a proponent of \"enlightened self-interest.\" Rather, the \"proper moral love of humanity\" is \"a disinterested love of God through love of humanity in ourselves as well as others.\" Cumberland concludes that actions \"principally conducive to our Happiness\" are those that promote \"the Honour and Glory of God\" and also \"Charity and Justice towards men.\" Cumberland emphasizes that desiring the well-being of our fellow humans is essential to the \"pursuit of our own Happiness.\" He cites \"reason\" as the authority for his conclusion that happiness consists in \"the most extensive Benevolence,\" but he also mentions as \"Essential Ingredients of Happiness\" the \"Benevolent Affections,\" meaning \"Love and Benevolence towards others,\" as well as \"that Joy, which arises from their Happiness.\"\n\nThe U.S. Declaration of Independence states that it has become necessary for the people of the United States to assume \"the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them\". Some early American lawyers and judges perceived natural law as too tenuous, amorphous, and evanescent a legal basis for grounding concrete rights and governmental limitations. Natural law did, however, serve as authority for legal claims and rights in some judicial decisions, legislative acts, and legal pronouncements. Robert Lowry Clinton argues that the U.S. Constitution rests on a common law foundation and the common law, in turn, rests on a classical natural law foundation.\n\nLiberal natural law grew out of the medieval Christian natural law theories and out of Hobbes' revision of natural law, sometimes in an uneasy balance of the two.\n\nSir Alberico Gentili and Hugo Grotius based their philosophies of international law on natural law. In particular, his writings on freedom of the seas and just war theory directly appealed to natural law. About natural law itself, he wrote that \"even the will of an omnipotent being cannot change or abrogate\" natural law, which \"would maintain its objective validity even if we should assume the impossible, that there is no God or that he does not care for human affairs.\" (\"De iure belli ac pacis\", Prolegomeni XI). This is the famous argument \"etiamsi daremus\" (\"non esse Deum\"), that made natural law no longer dependent on theology. However, German church-historians Ernst Wolf and M. Elze disagreed and claimed that Grotius' concept of natural law did have a theological basis. In Grotius' view, the Old Testament contained moral precepts (e.g. the Decalogue) which Christ confirmed and therefore were still valid. Moreover, they were useful in explaining the content of natural law. Both biblical revelation and natural law originated in God and could therefore not contradict each other.\n\nIn a similar way, Samuel Pufendorf gave natural law a theological foundation and applied it to his concepts of government and international law.\n\nJohn Locke incorporated natural law into many of his theories and philosophy, especially in \"Two Treatises of Government\". There is considerable debate about whether his conception of natural law was more akin to that of Aquinas (filtered through Richard Hooker) or Hobbes' radical reinterpretation, though the effect of Locke's understanding is usually phrased in terms of a revision of Hobbes upon Hobbesian contractarian grounds. Locke turned Hobbes' prescription around, saying that if the ruler went against natural law and failed to protect \"life, liberty, and property,\" people could justifiably overthrow the existing state and create a new one.\n\nWhile Locke spoke in the language of natural law, the content of this law was by and large protective of natural rights, and it was this language that later liberal thinkers preferred. Political philosopher Jeremy Waldron has pointed out that Locke's political thought was based on \"a particular set of Protestant Christian assumptions.\" To Locke, the content of natural law was identical with biblical ethics as laid down especially in the Decalogue, Christ's teaching and exemplary life, and St. Paul's admonitions. Locke derived the concept of basic human equality, including the equality of the sexes (\"Adam and Eve\"), from Genesis 1, 26–28, the starting-point of the theological doctrine of Imago Dei. One of the consequences is that as all humans are created equally free, governments need the consent of the governed. Thomas Jefferson, arguably echoing Locke, appealed to unalienable rights in the \"Declaration of Independence\", \"We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are \"created\" equal, that they are endowed by their \"Creator\" with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.\" The Lockean idea that governments need the consent of the governed was also fundamental to the Declaration of Independence, as the American Revolutionaries used it as justification for their separation from the British crown.\n\nThe Belgian philosopher of law Frank van Dun is one among those who are elaborating a secular conception of natural law in the liberal tradition. Libertarian theorist Murray Rothbard argues that \"the very existence of a natural law discoverable by reason is a potentially powerful threat to the status quo and a standing reproach to the reign of blindly traditional custom or the arbitrary will of the State apparatus.\" Ludwig von Mises states that he relaid the general sociological and economic foundations of the liberal doctrine upon utilitarianism, rather than natural law, but R. A. Gonce argues that \"the reality of the argument constituting his system overwhelms his denial.\" Murray Rothbard, however, says that Gonce makes a lot of errors and distortions in the analysis of Mises's works, including making confusions about the term which Mises uses to refer to scientific laws, \"laws of nature\", saying it characterizes Mises as a natural law philosopher. David Gordon notes, \"When most people speak of natural law, what they have in mind is the contention that morality can be derived from human nature. If human beings are rational animals of such-and-such a sort, then the moral virtues are...(filling in the blanks is the difficult part).\"\n\nEconomist and philosopher F. A. Hayek said that, originally, \"the term 'natural' was used to describe an orderliness or regularity that was not the product of deliberate human will. Together with 'organism' it was one of the two terms generally understood to refer to the spontaneously grown in contrast to the invented or designed. Its use in this sense had been inherited from the stoic philosophy, had been revived in the twelfth century, and it was finally under its flag that the late Spanish Schoolmen developed the foundations of the genesis and functioning of spontaneously formed social institutions.\" The idea that 'natural' was \"the product of designing reason\" is a product of a seventeenth century rationalist reinterpretation of the law of nature. Luis Molina, for example, when referred to the 'natural' price, explained that it is \"so called because 'it results from the thing itself without regard to laws and decrees, but is dependent on many circumstances which alter it, such as the sentiments of men, their estimation of different uses, often even in consequence of whims and pleasures\". And even John Locke, when talking about the foundations of natural law and explaining what he thought when citing \"reason\", said: \"By reason, however, I do not think is meant here that faculty of the understanding which forms traint of thought and deduces proofs, but certain definite principles of action from which spring all virtues and whatever is necessary for the proper moulding of morals.\"\n\nThis anti-rationalist approach to human affairs, for Hayek, was the same which guided Scottish enlightenment thinkers, such as Adam Smith, David Hume and Adam Ferguson, to make their case for liberty. For them, no one can have the knowledge necessary to plan society, and this \"natural\" or \"spontaneous\" order of society shows how it can efficiently \"plan\" bottom-up. Also, the idea that law is just a product of deliberate design, denied by natural law and linked to legal positivism, can easily generate totalitarianism: \"If law is wholly the product of deliberate design, whatever the designer decrees to be law is just by definition and unjust law becomes a contradiction in terms. The will of the duly authorized legislator is then wholly unfettered and guided solely by his concrete interests\". This idea is wrong because law cannot be just a product of \"reason\": \"no system of articulated law can be applied except within a framework of generally recognized but often unarticulated rules of justice\".\n\nHowever, a secular critique of the natural law doctrine was stated by Pierre Charron in his \"De la sagesse\" (1601): \"The sign of a natural law must be the universal respect in which it is held, for if there was anything that nature had truly commanded us to do, we would undoubtedly obey it universally: not only would every nation respect it, but every individual. Instead there is nothing in the world that is not subject to contradiction and dispute, nothing that is not rejected, not just by one nation, but by many; equally, there is nothing that is strange and (in the opinion of many) unnatural that is not approved in many countries, and authorized by their customs.\"\n\nIn jurisprudence, \"natural law\" can refer to the several doctrines:\n\nWhereas legal positivism would say that a law can be unjust without it being any less a law, a natural law jurisprudence would say that there is something legally deficient about an unjust norm. Legal interpretivism, famously defended in the English-speaking world by Ronald Dworkin, claims to have a position different from both natural law and positivism.\n\nBesides utilitarianism and Kantianism, natural law jurisprudence has in common with virtue ethics that it is a live option for a first principles ethics theory in analytic philosophy.\n\nThe concept of natural law was very important in the development of the English common law. In the struggles between Parliament and the monarch, Parliament often made reference to the Fundamental Laws of England, which were at times said to embody natural law principles since time immemorial and set limits on the power of the monarchy. According to William Blackstone, however, natural law might be useful in determining the content of the common law and in deciding cases of equity, but was not itself identical with the laws of England. Nonetheless, the implication of natural law in the common law tradition has meant that the great opponents of natural law and advocates of legal positivism, like Jeremy Bentham, have also been staunch critics of the common law.\n\nNatural law jurisprudence is currently undergoing a period of reformulation (as is legal positivism). The most prominent contemporary natural law jurist, Australian John Finnis, is based in Oxford, but there are also Americans Germain Grisez, Robert P. George, and Canadian Joseph Boyle and Brazilian Emídio Brasileiro. All have tried to construct a new version of natural law. The 19th-century anarchist and legal theorist, Lysander Spooner, was also a figure in the expression of modern natural law.\n\n\"New Natural Law\" as it is sometimes called, originated with Grisez. It focuses on \"basic human goods\", such as human life, knowledge, and aesthetic experience, which are self-evidently and intrinsically worthwhile, and states that these goods reveal themselves as being incommensurable with one another.\n\nThe tensions between the natural law and the positive law have played, and continue to play a key role in the development of international law.\n\n"}
{"id": "5544616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5544616", "title": "Near-threatened species", "text": "Near-threatened species\n\nA near-threatened species is a species which has been categorized as \"Near Threatened\" (NT) by the International Union for Conservation of Nature as that may be considered threatened with extinction in the near future, although it does not currently qualify for the threatened status. The IUCN notes the importance of re-evaluating near-threatened taxa at appropriate intervals.\n\nThe rationale used for near-threatened taxa usually includes the criteria of vulnerable which are plausible or nearly met, such as reduction in numbers or range. Near-threatened species evaluated from 2001 onwards may also be ones which are dependent on conservation efforts to prevent their becoming threatened, whereas prior to this conservation-dependent species were given a separate category (\"Conservation Dependent\").\n\nAdditionally, the 402 conservation-dependent taxa may also be considered near-threatened.\n\nPrior to 2001, the IUCN used the version 2.3 Categories and Criteria to assign conservation status, which included a separate category for conservation-dependent species (\"Conservation Dependent\", LR/cd). With this category system, Near Threatened and Conservation Dependent were both subcategories of the category \"Lower Risk\". Taxa which were last evaluated prior to 2001 may retain their LR/cd or LR/nt status, although had the category been assigned with the same information today the species would be designated simply \"Near Threatened (NT)\" in either case.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50034356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50034356", "title": "Panama Papers", "text": "Panama Papers\n\nThe Panama Papers are 11.5 million leaked documents that detail financial and attorney–client information for more than 214,488 offshore entities. The documents, some dating back to the 1970s, were created by, and taken from, Panamanian law firm and corporate service provider Mossack Fonseca, and were leaked in 2015 by an anonymous source.\n\nThe documents contain personal financial information about wealthy individuals and public officials that had previously been kept private. While offshore business entities are legal (see Offshore Magic Circle), reporters found that some of the Mossack Fonseca shell corporations were used for illegal purposes, including fraud, tax evasion, and evading international sanctions.\n\n\"John Doe\", the whistleblower who leaked the documents to German journalist Bastian Obermayer from the newspaper \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" (SZ), remains anonymous, even to the journalists who worked on the investigation. \"My life is in danger\", he told them. In a May 6 statement, John Doe cited income inequality as the reason for his action, and said he leaked the documents \"simply because I understood enough about their contents to realize the scale of the injustices they described\". He added that he had never worked for any government or intelligence agency and expressed willingness to help prosecutors if granted immunity from prosecution. After SZ verified that the statement did in fact come from the source for the Panama Papers, the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) posted the full document on its website.\n\nSZ asked the ICIJ for help because of the amount of data involved. Journalists from 107 media organizations in 80 countries analyzed documents detailing the operations of the law firm. After more than a year of analysis, the first news stories were published on April 3, 2016, along with 150 of the documents themselves. The project represents an important milestone in the use of data journalism software tools and mobile collaboration.\n\nThe documents were dubbed the Panama Papers because of the country they were leaked from; however, the Panamanian government expressed strong objections to the name over concerns that it would tarnish the government's and country's image worldwide, as did other entities in Panama and elsewhere. This led to an advertising campaign some weeks after the leak, titled \"Panama, more than papers\". Some media outlets covering the story have used the name \"Mossack Fonseca papers\".\n\nIn addition to the much-covered business dealings of British prime minister David Cameron and Icelandic prime minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the leaked documents also contain identity information about the shareholders and directors of 214,000 shell companies set up by Mossack Fonseca, as well as some of their financial transactions. Much of this information does not show anything more than prudent financial management. It is generally not against the law (in and of itself) to own an offshore shell company, although offshore shell companies may sometimes be used for illegal purposes.\n\nThe journalists on the investigative team found business transactions by many important figures in world politics, sports and art. Many of these transactions are quite legal. Since the data is incomplete, questions remain in many other cases; still others seem to clearly indicate ethical if not legal impropriety. Some disclosures – tax avoidance in very poor countries by very wealthy entities and individuals for example – lead to questions on moral grounds. According to \"The Namibian\" for instance, a shell company registered to Beny Steinmetz, Octea, owes more than $700,000 US in property taxes to the city of Koidu in Sierra Leone, and is $150 million in the red, even though its exports were more than twice that in an average month in the 2012–2015 period. Steinmetz himself has personal worth of $6 billion.\n\nOther offshore shell company transactions described in the documents do seem to have broken exchange laws, violated trade sanctions or stemmed from political corruption, according to ICIJ reporters. For example:\n\n\nNamed in the leak were 12 current or former world leaders, 128 other public officials and politicians, and hundreds of celebrities, businessmen and other wealthy individuals of over 200 countries.\n\nIndividuals and entities may open offshore accounts for any number of reasons, some of which are entirely legal but ethically questionable. A Canadian lawyer based in Dubai noted, for example, that businesses might wish to avoid falling under Islamic inheritance jurisprudence if an owner dies. Businesses in some countries may wish to hold some of their funds in dollars also, said a Brazilian lawyer. Estate planning is another example of legal tax avoidance.\n\nAmerican film-maker Stanley Kubrick had an estimated personal worth of $20 million when he died in 1999, much of it invested in an 18th-century English manor he bought in 1978. He lived in that manor for the rest of his life, filming scenes from \"The Shining\", \"Full Metal Jacket\" and \"Eyes Wide Shut\" there as well. Three holding companies set up by Mossack Fonseca now own the property, and are in turn held by trusts set up for his children and grandchildren. Since Kubrick was an American living in Britain, without the trust his estate would have had to pay transfer taxes to both governments and possibly have been forced to sell the property to obtain the liquid assets to pay them. Kubrick is buried on the grounds along with one of his daughters and the rest of his family still lives there.\n\nOther uses are more ambiguous. Chinese companies may incorporate offshore in order to raise foreign capital, normally against the law in China. In some of the world's hereditary dictatorships, the law may be on the side of the elite who use offshore companies to award oil contracts to themselves, or gold concessions to their children, however such dealings are sometimes prosecuted under international law.\n\nWhile no standard official definition exists, \"The Economist\" and the International Monetary Fund describe an offshore financial center, or tax haven, as a jurisdiction whose banking infrastructure primarily provides services to people or businesses who do not live there, requires little or no disclosure of information when doing business, and offers low taxes.\n\n\"The most obvious use of offshore financial centers is to avoid taxes\", \"The Economist\" added. Oxfam blamed tax havens in its 2016 annual report on income inequality for much of the widening gap between rich and poor. \"Tax havens are at the core of a global system that allows large corporations and wealthy individuals to avoid paying their fair share,\" said Raymond C. Offenheiser, president of Oxfam America, \"depriving governments, rich and poor, of the resources they need to provide vital public services and tackle rising inequality.\"\n\nInternational Monetary Fund (IMF) researchers estimated in July 2015 that profit shifting by multinational companies costs developing countries around US$213 billion a year, almost two percent of their national income. Igor Angelini, head of Europol's Financial Intelligence Group, said that shell companies \"play an important role in large-scale money laundering activities\" and that they are often a means to \"transfer bribe money\". Tax Justice Network concluded in a 2012 report that \"designing commercial tax abuse schemes and turning a blind eye upon suspicious transactions have become an inherent part of the work of bankers and accountants\".\n\nMoney-laundering affects the first world as well, since a favored shell company investment is real estate in Europe and North America. London, Miami, New York, Paris, Vancouver and San Francisco have all been affected. The practice of parking assets in luxury real estate has been frequently cited as fueling skyrocketing housing prices in Miami, where the Miami Association of Realtors said that cash sales accounted for 90% of new home sales in 2015. \"There is a huge amount of dirty money flowing into Miami that's disguised as investment,\" according to former congressional investigator Jack Blum. In Miami, 76% of condo owners pay cash, a practice considered a red flag for money-laundering.\n\nReal estate in London, where housing prices increased 50% from 2007 to 2016, also is frequently purchased by overseas investors. Donald Toon, head of Britain's National Crime Agency, said in 2015 that \"the London property market has been skewed by laundered money. Prices are being artificially driven up by overseas criminals who want to sequester their assets here in the UK\". Three quarters of Londoners under 35 cannot afford to buy a home.\n\nAndy Yan, an urban planning researcher and adjunct professor at the University of British Columbia, studied real estate sales in Vancouver—also thought to be affected by foreign purchasers—found that 18% of the transactions in Vancouver's most expensive neighborhoods were cash purchases, and 66% of the owners appeared to be Chinese nationals or recent arrivals from China. Calls for more data on foreign investors have been rejected by the provincial government. Chinese nationals accounted for 70% of 2014 Vancouver home sales for more than CA$3 million. On June 24, 2016 China CITIC Bank Corp filed suit in Canada against a Chinese citizen who borrowed CN¥50 million for his lumber business in China, but then withdrew roughly CA$7.5 million from the line of credit and left the country. He bought three houses in Vancouver and Surrey, British Columbia together valued at CA$7.3 million during a three-month period in June 2014.\n\n\"This issue will surely be raised at the G20 summit,\" predicted Tomasz Kozlowski, Ambassador of the European Union (EU) to India. \"We need to strengthen international cooperation for exchange of tax information between tax authorities\".\n\nPanama, Vanuatu and Lebanon may find themselves on a list of uncooperative tax havens that the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) re-activated in July 2016 at the request of G20 nations, warned Le Monde, a French newspaper that participated in the investigation. Those three countries followed none of the OECD's three broad guidelines for international banking cooperation:\n\nThe OECD, the G20, or the European Union could also institute another list for countries that are inadequate in more than one area. Countries meeting none of these criteria, such as Panama, Vanuatu and Lebanon, would go on the blacklist. Countries that meet only one criterion would go on the greylist. In April 2016, if this greylist had been in place it would have included nine countries: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahrain, Brunei, Dominica, Liberia, Nauru, Samoa, Tobago and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nThe International Consortium of Investigative Journalists helped organize the research and document review once \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" realized the scale of the work required to validate the authenticity of 2.6 terabytes of leaked data. They enlisted reporters and resources from \"The Guardian\", the BBC, \"Le Monde\", \"SonntagsZeitung\", \"Falter\", \"La Nación\", German broadcasters NDR and WDR, and Austrian broadcaster ORF, and eventually many others. Ultimately, \"reporters at 100 news media outlets working in 25 languages had used the documents\" to investigate individuals and organizations associated with Mossack Fonseca.\n\nSecurity factored into a number of project management considerations. Saying his life was in danger, John Doe insisted that reporters communicate over encrypted channels only and agree that they would never meet face-to-face.\n\nSZ also had concerns about security, not only for their source, the leaked documents, and their data, but also for the safety of some of their partners in the investigation living under corrupt regimes who might not want their money-handling practices made public. They stored the data in a room with limited physical access on computers that had never connected to the Internet. The Guardian also limited access to its journalists' project work area. To make it even harder to sabotage the computers or steal their drives, SZ journalists made them more tamper-evident by painting the screws holding the drives in place with glitter nail polish.\n\nReporters sorted the documents into a huge file structure containing a folder for each shell company, which held the associated emails, contracts, transcripts, and scanned documents Mossack Fonseca had generated while doing business with the company or administering it on a client's behalf. Some 4.8 million leaked files were emails, 3 million were database entries, 2.2 million PDFs, 1.2 million images, 320,000 text files, and 2242 files in other formats.\n\nJournalists indexed the documents using open software packages Apache Solr and Apache Tika, and accessed them by means of a custom interface built on top of Blacklight. \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" reporters also used Nuix for this, which is proprietary software donated by an Australian company also named Nuix.\n\nUsing Nuix, \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" reporters performed optical character recognition (OCR) processing on the millions of scanned documents, making the data they contained become both searchable and machine-readable. Most project reporters then used Neo4J and Linkurious to extract individual and corporate names from the documents for analysis, but some who had access to Nuix used it for this as well. Reporters then cross-referenced the compiled lists of people against the processed documents, then analyzed the information, trying to connect people, roles, monetary flow, and structure legality.\n\nUS banking and SEC expert David P. Weber assisted journalists in reviewing information from the Panama Papers.\n\nAdditional stories were released based on this data, and the full list of companies was released in early May 2016. The ICIJ later announced the release on May 9, 2016 of a searchable database containing information on over 200,000 offshore entities implicated in the Panama Papers investigation and more than 100,000 additional companies implicated in the 2013 Offshore Leaks investigation. Mossack Fonseca asked the ICIJ not to publish the leaked documents from its database. \"We have sent a cease and desist letter,\" the company said in a statement.\n\nThe sheer quantity of leaked data greatly exceeds the WikiLeaks Cablegate leak in 2010 (1.7 GB), Offshore Leaks in 2013 (260 GB), the 2014 Lux Leaks (4 GB), and the 3.3 GB Swiss Leaks of 2015. For comparison, the 2.6 TB of the Panama Papers equals approximately 2,660 GB.\n\nMossack Fonseca notified its clients on April 1, 2016 that it had sustained an email hack. Mossack Fonseca also told news sources that the company had been hacked and always operated within the law.\n\nData security experts noted, however, that the company had not been encrypting its emails and furthermore seemed to have been running a three-year-old version of Drupal with several known vulnerabilities. According to \"Tech Republic\", Drupal ran on the Apache 2.2.15 version from March 6, 2010, and worse, the Oracle fork of Apache, which by default allows users to view directory structure.\n\nThe network architecture was also inherently insecure; the email and web servers were not segmented from the client database in any way.\n\nSome reports also suggest that some parts of the site may have been running WordPress with an out-of-date version of Revolution Slider, a plugin whose previously-announced vulnerabilities are well-documented.\n\nA grey hat hacker named 1×0123 announced April 12 that Mossack Fonseca's content management system had not been secured from SQL injection, a well-known database attack vector, and that he had been able to access the customer database because of this.\n\nComputer security expert Chris Kubecka announced May 24, 2016 that the Mossack Fonseca client login portal was running four different government grade remote access trojans (RATs). Kubecka confirmed there were still numerous critical vulnerabilities, too many open ports into their infrastructure and internet access to their archive server due to weak security. Kubecka explained how each data security issue was discovered in detail in a full-length book titled \"Down the Rabbit Hole: An OSINT Journey\".\nGerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, called the leak \"probably the biggest blow the offshore world has ever taken because of the extent of the documents\". Edward Snowden described the release in a Twitter message as the \"biggest leak in the history of data journalism\". The ICIJ also said that the leak was \"likely to be one of the most explosive [leaks of inside information in history] in the nature of its revelations\".\n\n\"This is a unique opportunity to test the effectiveness of leaktivism\", said Micah White, co-founder of Occupy, \"... the Panama Papers are being dissected via an unprecedented collaboration between hundreds of highly credible international journalists who have been working secretly for a year. This is the global professionalization of leaktivism. The days of WikiLeaks amateurism are over.\"\n\nWikiLeaks spokesperson Kristinn Hrafnsson, an Icelandic investigative journalist who worked on Cablegate in 2010, said withholding some documents for a time does maximise the leak's impact, but called for full online publication of the Panama Papers eventually. A tweet from WikiLeaks criticized the decision of the ICIJ to not release everything for ethical reasons: \"If you censor more than 99% of the documents you are engaged in 1% journalism by definition.\"\n\nWhile offshore business entities are not illegal in the jurisdictions where they are registered, and often not illegal at all, reporters found that some Mossack Fonseca shell corporations seem to have been used for illegal purposes including fraud, kleptocracy, tax evasion and evading international sanctions.\n\nReports from April 3 note the law firm's many connections to high-ranking political figures and their relatives, as well as celebrities and business figures. Among other things, the leaked documents illustrate how wealthy individuals, including public officials, can keep personal financial information private.\n\nInitial reports identified five then-heads of state or government leaders from Argentina, Iceland, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, and the United Arab Emirates as well as government officials, close relatives, and close associates of various heads of government of more than forty other countries. Names of then-current national leaders in the documents include President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan of the United Arab Emirates, Petro Poroshenko of Ukraine, King Salman of Saudi Arabia, and the Prime Minister of Iceland, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson.\n\nFormer heads of state mentioned in the papers include:\n\nFormer prime ministers:\n\nThe leaked files identified 61 family members and associates of prime ministers, presidents and kings, including:\n\nOther clients included less-senior government officials and their close relatives and associates, from over forty countries.\n\nOver £10 million of cash from the sale of the gold stolen in the 1983 Brink's-Mat robbery was laundered, first unwittingly and later with the complicity of Mossack Fonseca, through a Panamanian company, Feberion Inc. The company was set up on behalf of an unnamed client twelve months after the robbery. The Brinks money was put through Feberion and other front companies, through banks in Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Jersey, and the Isle of Man. It issued bearer shares only. Two nominee directors from Sark were appointed to Feberion by Jersey-based offshore specialist Centre Services. The offshore firms recycled the funds through land and property transactions in the United Kingdom. Although the Metropolitan Police Service raided the offices of Centre Services in late 1986 in cooperation with Jersey authorities, and seized papers and two Feberion bearer shares, it wasn't until 1995 that Brink's-Mat's solicitors were finally able to take control of Feberion and the assets.\n\nActor Jackie Chan is mentioned in the leaked documents as a shareholder in six companies based in the British Virgin Islands.\n\nLaw firms play a central role in offshore financial operations. Mossack Fonseca is one of the biggest in its field and the biggest financial institutions refer customers to it. Its services to clients include incorporating and operating shell companies in friendly jurisdictions on their behalf. They can include creating \"complex shell company structures\" that, while legal, also allow the firm's clients \"to operate behind an often impenetrable wall of secrecy\". The leaked papers detail some of their intricate, multilevel, and multinational corporate structures. Mossack Fonseca has acted with global consultancy partners like Emirates Asset Management Ltd, Ryan Mohanlal Ltd, Sun Hedge Invest and Blue Capital Ltd on behalf of more than 300,000 companies, most of them registered in the British Overseas Territories.\n\nLeaked documents also indicate that the firm would also backdate documents on request and, based on a 2007 exchange of emails in the leaked documents, it did so routinely enough to establish a price structure: $8.75 per month in the past. In 2008, Mossack Fonseca hired a 90-year-old British man to pretend to be the owner of the offshore company of Marianna Olszewski, a US businesswoman, \"a blatant breach of anti-money laundering rules\" according to the BBC.\n\nThe anonymity of offshore shell companies can also be used to circumvent international sanctions, and more than 30 Mossack Fonseca clients were at one time or another blacklisted by the US Treasury Department, including businesses linked to senior figures in Russia, Syria and North Korea.\n\nThree Mossack Fonseca companies started for clients of Helene Mathieu Legal Consultants were later sanctioned by the US Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). Pangates International Corporation was accused in July 2014 of supplying the government of Syria with \"a large amount of specialty petroleum products\" with \"limited civilian application in Syria\". The other two, Maxima Middle East Trading and Morgan Additives Manufacturing Co, and their owners Wael Abdulkarim and Ahmad Barqawi, were said to have \"engaged in deceptive measures\" to supply oil products to Syria.\n\nMossack Fonseca also ran six businesses for Rami Makhlouf, cousin of Syrian president Bashar al-Assad, despite US sanctions against him. Internal Mossack Fonseca documents show that in 2011 Mossack Fonseca rejected a recommendation by their own compliance team to sever ties to Mr. Makhlouf. They agreed to do so only months later. The firm has said it never knowingly allowed anyone connected with rogue regimes to use its companies.\n\nFrederik Obermaier, co-author of the Panama Papers story and an investigative reporter at the German newspaper \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", told \"Democracy Now\": \"Mossack Fonseca realised that Makhlouf was the cousin, and they realised that he was sanctioned, and they realised that he's allegedly one of the financiers of the Syrian regime. And they said, 'Oh, there is this bank who still does business with him, so we should still keep with him, as well'.\"\n\nHSBC also appeared to reassure Mossack Fonseca not only that it was \"comfortable\" with Makhlouf as a client but suggested there could be a rapprochement with the Assad family by the US. Makhlouf is already known to be a long-standing client of HSBC's Swiss private bank, holding at least $15 million with it in multiple accounts in 2006. The Panamanian files also show HSBC provided financial services to a Makhlouf company called Drex Technologies, which HSBC said was a company of \"good standing\".\n\nDCB Finance, a Virgin Islands-based shell company founded by North Korean banker Kim Chol-sam and British banker Nigel Cowie, also ignored international sanctions and continued to do business with North Korea with the help of the Panamanian firm. The US Treasury Department in 2013 called DCB Finance a front company for Daedong Credit Bank and announced sanctions against both companies for providing banking services to North Korean arms dealer Korea Mining and Development Trading Corporation, attempting to evade sanctions against that country, and helping to sell arms and expand North Korea's nuclear weapons programme. Cowie said the holding company was used for legitimate business and he was not aware of illicit transactions.\n\nMossack Fonseca, required by international banking standards to avoid money-laundering or fraudster clients, is, like all banks, supposed to be particularly alert for signs of corruption with politically exposed persons (PEP), in other words, clients who either are or have close ties to government officials. However they somehow failed to turn up any red flags concerning Tareq Abbas even though he shares a family name with the president of Palestine, and sat on the board of directors of a company with four fellow directors the firm did deem PEP because of their ties to Palestinian politics. Yet Mossack Fonseca actually did and documented due diligence research, including a Google search.\n\nMossack Fonseca has managed more than 300,000 companies over the years. The number of active companies peaked at more than 80,000 in 2009. Over 210,000 companies in twenty-one jurisdictions figure in the leaks. More than half were incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, others in Panama, the Bahamas, the Seychelles, Niue, and Samoa. Mossack Fonseca's clients have come from more than 100 countries. Most of the corporate clients were from Hong Kong, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, Luxembourg, Panama, and Cyprus. Mossack Fonseca worked with more than 14,000 banks, law firms, incorporators, and others to set up companies, foundations, and trusts for their clients. Some 3,100 companies listed in the database appear to have ties to US offshore specialists, and 3,500 shareholders of offshore companies list US addresses. Mossack Fonseca has offices in Nevada and Wyoming.\n\nThe leaked documents indicate that about US$2 trillion has passed through the firm's hands. Several of the holding companies that appear in the documents did business with sanctioned entities, such as arms merchants and relatives of dictators, while the sanctions were in place. The firm provided services to a Seychelles company named Pangates International, which the US government believes supplied aviation fuel to the Syrian government during the current civil war, and continued to handle its paperwork and certify it as a company in good standing, despite sanctions, until August 2015.\n\nMore than 500 banks registered nearly 15,600 shell companies with Mossack Fonseca, with HSBC and its affiliates accounting for more than 2,300 of the total. Dexia and J. Safra Sarasin of Luxembourg, Credit Suisse from the Channel Islands and the Swiss UBS each requested at least 500 offshore companies for their clients. An HSBC spokesman said, \"The allegations are historical, in some cases dating back 20 years, predating our significant, well-publicized reforms implemented over the last few years.\"\n\nIn response to queries from the \"Miami Herald\" and ICIJ, Mossack Fonseca issued a 2,900-word statement listing legal requirements that prevent using offshore companies for tax avoidance and total anonymity, such as FATF protocols which require identifying ultimate beneficial owners of all companies (including offshore companies) before opening any account or transacting any business.\n\nThe \"Miami Herald\" printed the statement with an editor's note that said the statement \"did not address any of the specific due diligence failings uncovered by reporters\".\n\nOn Monday, April 4, Mossack Fonseca released another statement:\n\nThe facts are these: while we may have been the victim of a data breach, nothing we've seen in this illegally obtained cache of documents suggests we've done anything illegal, and that's very much in keeping with the global reputation we've built over the past 40 years of doing business the right way.\n\nCo-founder Ramón Fonseca Mora told CNN that the reports were false, full of inaccuracies and that parties \"in many of the circumstances\" cited by the ICIJ \"are not and have never been clients of Mossack Fonseca\". The firm provided longer statements to ICIJ.\n\nIn its official statement April 6, Mossack Fonseca suggested that responsibility for any legal violations might lie with other institutions:\n\napproximately 90% of our clientele is professional clients ... who act as intermediaries and are regulated in the jurisdiction of their business. These clients are obliged to perform due diligence on their clients in accordance with the KYC and AML regulations to which they are subject.\n\nIn an interview with \"Bloomberg\", Jürgen Mossack said: \"The cat's out of the bag, so now we have to deal with the aftermath.\"\n\nHe said the leak was not an \"inside job\"—the company had been hacked by servers based abroad. It filed a complaint with the Panamanian attorney general's office.\n\nOn April 7, 2016 Mossack resigned from Panama's Council on Foreign Relations (Conarex), even though he was not officially serving at the time. His brother Peter Mossack still serves as honorary Consul of Panama, as he has since 2010.\n\nOn May 5, 2016, Mossack Fonseca sent a cease and desist letter to the ICIJ in an attempt to stop the ICIJ from releasing the leaked documents from the Panama Papers scandal. Despite this, the ICIJ released the leaked documents on May 9, 2016.\n\nIn March 2018, Mossack Fonseca announced it would close down.\n\nAt 5:00 am on April 3, as the news first broke, Ramón Fonseca Mora told television channel TVN he \"was not responsible nor he had been accused in any tribunal\".\n\nHe said the firm was the victim of a hack and that he had no responsibility for what clients did with the offshore companies that they purchased from Mossack Fonseca, which were legal under Panamanian law. Later that day, the Independent Movement (MOVIN) called for calm, and expressed hope that the Panamanian justice system would not allow the culprits to go with impunity.\n\nBy April 8, the government understood media reports were addressing tax evasion not attacking the country of Panama. The president met on Wednesday April 7, with CANDIF, a committee of representatives from different sectors of the economy which includes the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Industry and Agriculture, the National Lawyers Association, the International Lawyers Association, the Banking Association and the Stock Exchange, and entered full crisis management mode. He announced the creation of a new judiciary tribunal and a high-level commission led by Nobel Prize Laureate Joseph Stiglitz.\n\nIsabel Saint Malo de Alvarado, Vice President of Panama, said in an op-ed piece published April 21 in \"The Guardian\" that President Juan Carlos Varela and his administration have strengthened Panama's controls over money-laundering in the twenty months they have been in power, and that \"Panama is setting up an independent commission, co-chaired by the Nobel laureate Joseph Stiglitz, to evaluate our financial system, determine best practices, and recommend measures to strengthen global financial and legal transparency. We expect its findings within the next six months, and will share the results with the international community.\"\n\nHowever, in early August 2016, Stiglitz resigned from the committee because he learned that the Panamanian government would not commit to making their final report public. He said that he had always \"assumed\" that the final report would be transparent.\n\nOn April 8, President Varela denounced France's proposal to return Panama to a list of countries that did not cooperate with information exchange. Minister of the Presidency Alvaro Alemán categorically denied that Panama is a tax haven, and said the country would not be a scapegoat. Alemán said that talks with the French ambassador to Panama had begun.\n\nOn April 25, a meeting of the Panamanian and French finance ministers resulted in an agreement under which Panama will provide information to France about French nationals with taxable assets in the country.\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Finance of Panama, Dulcidio de la Guardia, formerly an offshore specialist at Mossack Fonseca competitor Morgan & Morgan, said the legal but often \"murky\" niche of establishing offshore accounts, firms and trusts make up \"less than half a percentage point\" of Panama's GDP. He appeared to suggest that publication of the papers was an attack on Panama because of the high level of economic growth that the country had shown.\n\nEduardo Morgan of the Panamanian firm Morgan & Morgan accused the OECD of starting the scandal to avoid competition from Panama with the interests of other countries. The Panama Papers affect the image of Panama in an unfair manner and have come to light not as the result of an investigation, but of a hack, said Adolfo Linares, president of the Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture of Panama (Cciap).\n\nThe Colegio Nacional de Abogados de Panama (CNA) urged the government to sue. Political analyst Mario Rognoni said that the world perceives Panama as a tax haven. The government of President Juan Carlos Varela might become implicated if he tries to cover up for those involved, Rognoni said.\n\nEconomist Rolando Gordon said the affair hurts Panama, which has just emerged from the greylist of the FATF, and added that each country, especially Panama, must conduct investigations and determine whether illegal or improper acts were committed.\n\nPanama's Lawyers Movement called the Panama Papers leak \"cyber bullying\" and in a press conference condemned it as an attack on the 'Panama' brand. Fraguela Alfonso, its president, said called it a direct attack on the country's financial system.\n\nI invite all organized forces of the country to create a great crusade for the rescue of the country's image\n\nOffshore companies are legal, said Panamanian lawyer and former controller of the republic Alvin Weeden; illegality arises when they are used for money laundering, arms smuggling, terrorism, or tax evasion.\n\nOn October 19, 2016, it became known that a government executive had just spent 370 million dollars in order to \"clean\" the country's image.\n\nOn October 22, 2016, in the midst of a state visit to Germany, Varela told journalist Jenny Pérez, of Deutsche Welle that there had been \"progress\" in transparency and many agreements to exchange tax information, and that tax evasion was a global problem. Asked about his ties with Ramón Fonseca Mora, managing partner of the firm Mossack Fonseca, he acknowledged that he is a friend.\n\nThe Procuraduría de la Nación announced that it would investigate Mossack Fonseca and the Panama papers.\nsee\nOn April 12, the newly formed Second Specialized Prosecutor against Organized Crime raided Mossack Fonseca and searched their Bella Vista office as part of the investigation initiated by the Panama Papers. The Attorney General's office issued a press release following the raid, which lasted 27 hours, stating that the purpose was \"to obtain documents relevant to the information published in news articles that establishes the possible use of the law firm in illegal activities\". The search ended without measures against the law firm, confirmed prosecutor Javier Caraballo of the Second Prosecutor Against Organized Crime.\n\nOn April 22 the same unit raided another Panama location and \"secured a large amount of evidence\".\n\nThe Municipality of Regulation and Supervision of Financial Subjects [not the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF)] initiated a special review of the law firm Mossack Fonseca to determine whether it had followed tax law. Carlamara Sanchez, in charge of this proceeding, said at a press conference that the quartermaster had come to verify whether the firm had complied since April 8 with due diligence, customer knowledge, the final beneficiary and reporting of suspicious transactions to Financial Analysis Unit (UAF) operations. She said that Law 23 of 2015 empowers regulation and supervision and said some firms had been monitored since late last year with special attention after the Panama Papers, and noted that the law carries fines $5,000 to $1 million or even suspension of the firm.\n\nThe ICIJ investigation of Mossack Fonseca was reported to the Public Ministry. Samid Dan Sandoval, former candidate for mayor of Santiago de Veraguas (2014), filed the legal action against the journalists and all those who had participated. He said the project name damaged the integrity, dignity and sovereignty of the country. and that the consortium would have to assume legal responsibility for all damage caused to the Panamanian nation.\n\nA Change.org petition requested the ICIJ stop using the name of Panama as in the Panama Papers. The request said the generally- accepted name for the investigation \"damage(d) the image\" of Panama.\n\nAttorney General of Panama Kenia Isolda Porcell Diaz announced on January 24, 2017 that he was suspending the investigations against Mossack Fonseca because it filed an appeal for protection of constitutional rights before the First Superior Court of Justice of Panama and requested that he deliver all the original documents to issue a judgment.\n\nMossack and Fonseca were detained February 8, 2017 on money-laundering charges.\n\nIn March 2018, Mossack Fonseca announced that it would cease operations at the end of March due to \"irreversible damage\" to their image as a direct result of the Panama Papers. \n\nMany senior EU figures have been implicated in the Panama Papers scandal. The European Commissioner for Taxation, Pierre Moscovici, has said that the European Union as a whole had a \"duty\" to prevent the kind of tax avoidance uncovered in the Panama Papers scandal. Moscovici told reporters the use of offshore companies to hide what he called \"shocking amounts\" of financial assets from tax authorities was \"unethical\". He estimated that the tax shelters resulted in an annual loss of some €1 trillion in public finances, adding that the European Commission has attempted to tighten tax rules across the union since November 2014 due to the Luxembourg Leaks scandal, also revealed by the ICIJ, and that he hoped the extent of the Panama Papers revelations would spur countries to action.\n\nIn a 2013 letter, unearthed by the \"Financial Times\" to the then president of the European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, the then Prime Minister of the United Kingdom David Cameron said that offshore trusts should not automatically be subject to the same transparency requirements as shell companies.\n\nThe Panama Papers revealed that the Minister of Finance of Andorra, Jordi Cinca, while he was CEO of Orfund SA, maintained an offshore company called Mariette Holdings Inc, until its dissolution in 2002 for fear of discovery of his participation in these businesses. The business activities of Orfund had ties to the blood diamond trade, and the refining and sale of African gold. This company closed shortly before the civil war in Ivory Coast.\n\nThe opposition demanded his resignation as a result. In response Cinca said that \"if their connection would affect the Government of Andorra, will step down\". Still, he did not.\n\nAustria's financial market authority has announced that they will audit two Austrian banks that were mentioned in the Panama Papers – Raiffeisenbank International (RBI) and . It will be specifically examining whether the banks have complied with their obligation to prevent money laundering. Hypo Vorarlberg subsequently announced that while they have complied with all laws in the past, they are planning to retreat completely from the offshore sector.\n\nCentral Bank of Cyprus officially declared: \"With regard to press reports citing leaked documents, known as the Panama Papers, the Central Bank of Cyprus announces that it is assessing the information to the extent that it may concern the Cypriot banking system and taking, where necessary, appropriate action.\" A Cypriot online paper said \"The Cyprus link stems from the fact that Fonseca runs an office in Cyprus and, more specifically, in Limassol. In a chart, the leaks name Cyprus as a tax haven (countries that offer little or no tax), although it has a corporate tax rate of 12.5%, the same as Ireland.\"\n\nIn September 2016, Danish tax authorities purchased Panama Papers data on 320 companies and some 500-600 individuals to investigate. Although the data came from an anonymous source, it was vetted with credible sample data.\n\nFrench financial prosecutors opened a probe, and former President François Hollande declared that tax evaders would be brought to trial and punished. Also as a result of the leak, France restored Panama to its list of tax havens, from which Panama had recently been removed.\n\nFormer French budget minister Jérôme Cahuzac, who spearheaded a crackdown on tax fraud while in office, was a client of Mossack Fonseca and through them owned a Seychelles company named Cerman Group Limited, incorporated in 2009. When France investigated 2013 allegations by Mediapart that in 2000 Cahuzac had held undeclared assets in an account first in Switzerland, then Singapore, he resigned his cabinet post, protesting his innocence, but admitted a few months later that he indeed had hidden €600,000 in a UBS account and then moved it to keep it hidden, \"while continuing to lead France's clampdown on tax evasion\". The French Socialist Party unanimously voted to expel him a week later. On the heels of the April 2013 \"Cahuzac affair\", President Hollande created the \"parquet national financier\" (PNF), a judiciary investigation unit specializing in large-scale fraud and corruption investigations.\n\nJean-Marie Le Pen, founder and long-time leader of the far-right-wing Front National (FN) and now a member of the European Parliament, already was the subject, along with his daughter Marine Le Pen and his staff, of a PNF tax fraud investigation. Drawing official scrutiny were an undeclared HSBC account containing €2.2m in gold and coins, managed from Geneva by an aide through a trust based in the British Virgin Islands which was closed and then moved to the Bahamas in 2014; allegations of overbilling; misuse and comingling of campaign funds; and tax evasion. Jean-Marie Le Pen is also suspected of using his European Parliament funds for the campaign and administrative expenses of his French political party. Jean-Marie Le Pen is mentioned in the documents, along with his daughter Marine Le Pen, who is the current party leader, and Frederic Chatillon, an FN insider who is also a close friend of Marine. Among the three of them, they may have hidden as much as a million pounds in offshore accounts.\n\nBidzina Ivanishvili became wealthy in Russia before returning to Georgia and becoming prime minister in 2012; his public official's asset declaration was 72 pages long. However, he does not list Lynden Management, a Mossack Fonseca company which held about 20% of the shares of Raptor Pharmaceuticals (which he did declare), a US-based company listed on the New York Stock Exchange. He refused for nearly four years to provide a copy of his passport and a proof of address to the law firm, which needed it to comply with money-laundering regulations as well as inquiries into the company by the Financial Investigation Agency of the British Virgin Islands.\n\nForbes calculates Ivanishvili's net worth at $4.8 billion.\n\nThe Panama Papers confirmed that the politician Stavros Papastavrou, who was advisor of former Prime Ministers Kostas Karamanlis and Antonis Samaras, had been a member of the council of the Panamanian foundations, Green Shamrock Foundation and Diman Foundation, from 2005 to 2014. In 2006, he became deputy chairman of the Aisios Foundation, that still exists today. However, Papstavrou resigned from the Aisios Foundation in 2012.\n\nA number of Greek families with significant art collections were implicated in this scandal.\n\nPrime Minister Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, elected after the 2008 banking collapse in Iceland, had pledged to clean up corruption in the banking system. But when Sigmundur Davíð took his seat he did not disclose his 50% interest of Wintris, a company that owned bonds of one of the bankrupt banks, nor divest himself of it, until the day before a new law took effect on January 1, 2010 that would have required him to declare this conflict of interest. He sold his share to his wife, who owns the other half. The couple both come from wealthy families. When they bought Wintris he was working as a journalist and she is an anthropologist. Until his failure to disclose the asset, he apparently broke no laws. But the country remembers the 2008 financial crisis all too well and thought it had put it in the past. Since Sigmundur Davíð negotiated on behalf of Iceland with creditors of failed Icelandic banks, the discovery that Sigmundur Davíð's wife is a bondholder caused so much outrage that 22,000–24,000 people attended an anti-government protest outside the parliament on April 4, 2016, almost 8% of the population. Sigmundur Davíð suggested a snap election, but the other members of the coalition government did not want elections, just his resignation. On April 5, 2016, Prime Minister of Iceland Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson announced his resignation.\n\n\"The Reykjavik Grapevine\" and the news site Kjarninn revealed that President Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson had connections to Lasca Finance Limited, registered in 2005 in the British Virgin Islands. Ólafur Ragnar had categorically denied any personal or family ties to companies in tax havens. The parents of his wife, Dorrit Moussaieff, operated the company 1999–2005. The financial statements of the Moussaieff family business show it received nearly £7 million ($10.2 million US, €9.1 million) in interest payments from Lasca during 2000–2005. In 2005 Moussaieff Jewelers Limited sold its 10% stake of Lasca to S. Dorrit Moussaieff's deceased father and her mother, now 86 years old and the registered owner of the Lasca ownership stake. Dorrit and her sisters Tamara and Sharon will inherit her fortune, considered among the largest in the world.\n\nBjarni Benediktsson, Iceland's finance minister and the chairman of Gunnlaugsson's coalition partner, comes from one of Iceland's wealthiest families. He confirmed that he owned 33% of Falson & Co., a Seychelles shell company founded in 2005 to purchase real estate in Dubai. It was still active in 2009, when Benediktsson was already a member of parliament with financial disclosure requirements. He said he registered the company with tax authorities, and he was not aware that it was registered in the Seychelles. Minister of the Interior Ólöf Nordal and her husband had powers of attorney for Dooley Securities S.A., an offshore company located in Panama. She said that the company was founded for her husband but was never used, so she did not think she had to disclose it. Hrólfur Ölvisson, the managing director of Gunnlaugsson's Progressive Party, says the Mossack Fonseca companies that list his name have been inactive a very long time, and were legal.\n\nBusinesswoman Ingibjörg Pálmadóttir and her husband Jón Ásgeir Jóhannesson have for several years financed their business dealings through a Panamanian company, Guru Invest, which owns shares in retailer Sports Direct through Rhapsody Investments (Europe), based in Luxembourg. Guru Invest paid around USD 16 million to Glitnir bank after it crashed to cover the debt of Gaumur, one of Jón Ásgeir's companies, and loaned ISK 100 million to Jón Ásgeir's company Þú Blásól through an offshore company he owns named Jovita. Asked by journalists at \"Kjarninn\" where that money came from, Ingibjörg did not reply. Ingibjörg is the primary owner of the 365 media group, which owns the Icelandic news outlets Vísir.is, television channel Stöð 2 and radio stations Bylgjan, and FM 957, none of which seem to be reporting this disclosure.\n\nThe \"Irish Times\" newspaper handled the Irish component of the leak. Prominent Irish names listed included golfer Pádraig Harrington, property developer Sean Mulryan and the manager of Irish rock group U2, Paul McGuinness. The lists also included Stanley Watson, a senior partner of Ireland's largest tax-law firm, Matheson, who have led the creation of many of the Irish corporate tax management tools used by US multinationals in Ireland to avoid billions in US taxes. The list also included Irish Fine Gael political advisor, Frank Flannery.\n\nOn April 6, 2016, Italy's Procura of Turin ordered the Guardia di Finanza to investigate the 800 Italians contained in the Panama Papers' documents.\n\nFormer long-time Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, who had been already convicted for tax evasion and expelled from the Parliament, was included in the papers. Other notable people whose names are mentioned in the Papers include entrepreneurs Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, Flavio Briatore, Adriano Galliani, and actor Carlo Verdone.\n\nAn investigation by ICIJ partner \"The Namibian\" found that the imprisoned mafioso Vito Roberto Palazzolo shielded his finances from Italian, Namibian and South African authorities with shell companies in the British Virgin Islands set up by a German banker in Hong Kong, Wolf-Peter Berthold, which they also used to transfer control of Palazzolo's assets to his son.\n\nThe Panama Papers linked a minister in the government of Prime Minister Joseph Muscat, Konrad Mizzi, and the prime minister's chief of staff, Keith Schembri, to shell companies in Panama. Furthermore, Mizzi's wife, Sai Mizzi Liang, who is Malta's trade envoy to China and Consul General for Malta in Shanghai, China, was also named as beneficiary, together with their children, of a trust based in New Zealand holding Mizzi's Panama shell company.\n\nMizzi, until 28 April 2016 Minister for Health and Energy, and currently Minister for Tourism, is listed in the Panama Papers as the owner of a Panama shell company called Hearnville Inc.\n\nIndications in the Maltese press of Mizzi's links to an offshore trust did not prevent Mizzi from being elected deputy leader for party affairs of the ruling Labour Party on 25 February 2016, following a change in the party statutes to enable a sitting MP to be appointed. Mizzi stepped down as deputy leader of the Labour Party on 28 April 2016.\n\nSchembri, a businessman who managed the electoral campaign of the Labour Party in the 2013 Maltese general elections, and serves as chief of staff to Muscat, was reported to hold an offshore company based in the British Virgin Islands, and owns an anonymous shell company in Panama, called Tillgate Inc, held by a trust established for him in New Zealand. Konrad Mizzi and Keith Schembri acquired their shell companies in Panama, Hearnville Inc and Tillgate Inc respectively, via the Mossack Fonseca representatives in Malta, who also tried to open bank accounts linked to the two shell companies of the two politically exposed persons in various jurisdictions. The owner of a third anonymous shell company in Panama, Egrant Inc, whose existence was revealed in the same document referring to the other two companies, remains unknown, although the strict secrecy observed in its acquisition, including the avoidance of e-mail communications and the utilization of communications via Skype, have fuelled strong suspicions that a third top Maltese politically exposed person is involved.\n\nIn a 2015 declaration of assets, dated 8 February and submitted to the Maltese Parliament at the end of March 2016, which Muscat said he'd been shown in draft form before the Panama Papers were leaked, Mizzi listed the trust in New Zealand and the shell company in Panama. As of 28 April 2016 a report on the matter commissioned by the Government of Malta by an unnamed international audit firm was still pending. On 28 April 2016 Muscat announced a cabinet reshuffle; Mizzi lost his ministerial portfolio of Health and Energy, but was retained as a minister without portfolio in the Office of the Prime Minister.\n\nMalta is the only member of the European Union that have a minister implicated in this scandal and to date. Not withstanding Mizzi and Schembri's involvement in this scandal they still hold very high positions in the Maltese government.\n\nMark A. Sammut wrote a book about the case, called \"L-Aqwa fl-Ewropa. Il-Panama Papers u l-Poter\" (\"The Very Best in Europe. The Panama Papers and Power\").\n\nIn October 2017, Daphne Caruana Galizia, a blogger who led the Panama Papers investigation into corruption in Malta, was killed by a car bomb near her home.\n\nThe Norwegian Tax Administration expects to demand access to information from DNB (Norway's largest financial services group) about approximately 30 companies formed by DNB that are owned by Norwegians, 20 of whom are living in Norway. 200 Norwegians are on the client list of Mossack Fonseca.\n\nThe ICIJ's Offshore Leaks Database shows that Portugal had 246 Offshore Entities, 300 Officers, 40 Intermediaries and 175 Addresses linked to the activities described in the Mossack-Fonseca papers, with newspapers reporting the involvement of several politicians, government officials, bankers and company managers. As of May 2017, there were no criminal or judicial consequences for any of the involved.\n\nThe \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", one of the newspapers participating in the project that made the papers public, described the connections of various individuals listed in them to Russian president Vladimir Putin. They quoted Nobel-winning economist Paul Krugman and US State Department documents saying that Russia is a \"kleptocracy\" and a \"mafia state\" respectively. The \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" reported about $2 billion had moved through a network of companies associated with Russian firms and individuals in \"just a few years\" and the companies appeared to have been used for \"questionable business transactions\".\n\nPutin has criticized offshore companies as \"unpatriotic\" on several occasions since 2011 and in 2013 a law was passed banning foreign bank accounts for government officials.\n\nPutin's name does not appear in any of the records released to date, but those of his associates do. Construction billionaires Arkady and Boris Rotenberg, musician Sergei Roldugin and business magnate Alisher Usmanov are mentioned in the leaked documents, as are Putin's long-standing friend, billionaire Gennady Timchenko, as well as his press secretary's spouse, his cousin, and former KGB colleagues, as well as several oligarchs connected to Mossack Fonseca shell companies.\n\nSergei Roldugin, a cellist with the St Petersburg orchestra who is the godfather of Putin's eldest daughter and who has been described as Putin's \"best friend\", appears prominently in the Panama Papers. According to the leaked papers, Roldugin acquired assets worth at least $100 million, including a 12.5% stake in Video International (Russia's largest television advertising firm), companies that own stock options for some of Russia's biggest companies and the rights to loans worth hundreds of millions of dollars. In 2008, a company controlled by Roldugin joined with several other offshore companies to help \"another Putin insider\" acquire control of Kamaz, Russia's largest truck manufacturer, and obtain investment from German carmaker Daimler AG, $250 million for 10% of Kamaz. Sandalwood, another company in which Roldugin and other insiders have an interest was issued lines of credit between 2009 and 2012 worth $800,000 by Russian Commercial Bank (RCB) in Cyprus, then a wholly owned subsidiary of VTB Bank, largely owned by the Russian state. Panama Papers documents indicate that Roldugin companies received several loans with no collateral, or at very low interest rates, or never repaid. In 2013, several shell companies linked to the brothers Boris and Arkady Rotenberg loaned worth about US$200 million to a company in Roldugin's network. The leaked documents do not show whether they were repaid. Shortly before the loan was granted, Arkady Rotenberg's company had been awarded the tender for the South Stream pipeline project, worth billions. Asked about his companies, Rodulgin said \"I have to take a look and find out what I can say and what I can't\", and that financial matters are \"delicate\".\n\nPutin's spokesperson Dmitry Peskov called Western reporting of the Panama Papers \"Putinophobia\", said that they target Putin and are part of a conspiracy against Russia orchestrated by the Central Intelligence Agency, the United States Department of State and others.\n\nPutin denied \"any element of corruption\", and said his opponents are trying to destabilize Russia. Putin also said: \"WikiLeaks has showed us that official people and official organs of the US are behind this.\" On 2016's annual \"Direct Line with Vladimir Putin\", he called the leaked documents \"reliable\" but confined his comments to Roldugin, saying that Western media did not understand that the musician has spent all his off-shore income on \"musical instruments for Russia\". Putin also said Goldman Sachs owned shares in the parent company of \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\", which is in fact owned by a Munich family and a German media group. The Kremlin apologized for this \"mistake\".\n\nInitially, mainstream Russian media almost entirely ignored the leak. Neither state-owned Channel 1 and Rossiya 1, nor privately owned REN-TV and NTV, mentioned the story on April 4, the day the story broke. The minimal coverage of the story ran in the middle of the night on \"Vesti TV\" and was in relation to Lionel Messi and Michel Platini. An exception was the Russian opposition newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\", described as \"the ICIJ's Russian partner\", which reported on the story both in hard copy and online.\n\nBy the end of April OCCRP published analysis of further batch of the leaked documents demonstrating a cash flow to the Rodulgin accounts from the 2007 tax theft of $230m by Moscow tax inspectors uncovered and reported by Sergei Magnitsky.\n\nOn April 15, 2016, José Manuel Soria was forced to leave his post as acting Minister of Industry, Energy and Tourism when the Panama Papers revealed that he and his family had maintained several offshore societies on tax havens during the previous decades. Soria initially denied this, but reports kept leaking that contradicted him. On April 14, a company came to light that he had owned on Jersey until 2002, while mayor of Las Palmas. Soria was put in a critical political position as a result of his confusing and changing explanations on the issue, and resigned the next day.\n\nHe is not the only prominent Spanish politician who had offshore companies.\n\nFormer IMF president Rodrigo Rato, vice-president in the conservative government of prime minister José María Aznar, had more than €3.6 million in two offshore companies. He has been charged by Spain with alleged tax offenses, money laundering and corruption among individuals in other cases of corruption.\nMicaela Domecq-Solís, the wife of Miguel Arias Cañete, currently the European Commissioner for Climate Action and Energy and formerly the EU Minister of Agriculture, Food and Environment, also opened shell societies.\n\nThe Spanish Royal Family is also involved in this tax scandal: Princess Pilar of Borbón, Duchess of Badajoz, sister of former King Juan Carlos I and aunt of the current King, Felipe VI, had an offshore corporation for 40 years, until the abdication of her brother. She assembled a company called Delantera Financiera, in 1974, and was its president and administrator. She initially denied this when her name appeared in the Panama Papers. Her husband, who died in 1991, was secretary-general of the corporation. His son, Bruno Gomez-Acebes, is treasurer and manager of this company. The name of , the count of Ripalda and the brother of Jaime de Marichalar, the former husband of the king's daughter, Elena de Borbón, also appears.\n\nMoreover, in a huge corruption scandal involving the royal house, Iñaki Urdangarin and his business associate in the Nóos foundation, were advised by Mossack Fonseca to move funds.\n\nTwo great-grandchildren of the dictator Francisco Franco, Francisco and Juan José Franco Suelves set up registered societies in the British Virgin Islands through Mossack Fonseca. Juan José Franco opened Malini Investments in 1997, being director in 2012 and closed in 2013. He told the newspaper \"El Confidencial\" he was \"absolutely ignorant\". Francisco Franco Suelves, his older brother, also opened Vamfield Alliance Limited in 1997 as a director.\n\n, son of Jordi Pujol, former President of the Generalitat of Catalonia considered a linchpin of Catalan independence, granted the diversion of a commission of 6.8 million euros from the sale of an office to an opaque society, which repaid, with another offshore company, about 5 million more. His Pujol family, parents and children, are charged with several counts of tax fraud and corruption, among other crimes.\n\nThe current wife of former prime minister of Spain Felipe González, María García Vaquero, opened an account in Switzerland for Carmingo Ltd in 2004 in the tax haven of Niue, an island in the South Pacific. The lawyer Cándido Conde-Pumpido Jr., son of former General Prosecutor of Spain and magistrate of the Supreme Court of Spain, Cándido Conde-Pumpido, asked to open a Mossack Fonseca offshore company in 2008, though the transaction wasn't completed. He had intended the offshore company to be an intermediary in a project to build a skyscraper in the capital of Panama, not to hide money.\n\nFrancisco Paesa, an important spy for the CNI, while working for the Ministry of Interior, opened an offshore account after faking his death in 1998.\n\nTop bankers and Spanish businessmen used this firm to open accounts and companies: Miguel Blesa, president of Caja Madrid, tried in Spanish courts for numerous cases of corruption, Jesus Barderas, a businessman close to ex-prime minister Felipe González, children of the lawyer Javier de la Rosa, who also is linked to corruption cases, Carlos Ortega, CEO of Pepe Jeans, and families with major hotel chains such as the Riu (RIU Hotels & Resorts), the Escarrer (Meliá Hotels International) and the Martinón (Group Martinón).\n\nArt collectors Marina Ruiz-Picasso and Borja Thyssen have Mossack Fonseca companies. Thyssen's lawyer said his company was fully declared to tax authorities and Ruiz-Picasso declined comment. Other celebrities involved include Spanish director Pedro Almodóvar, who won an Oscar in 2003 for \"Habla con ella\" and with his brother Agustin created a company in 1991 called Glen Valley in the British Virgin Islands. Agustin responded saying he closed the company in 1994 and it paid all of its taxes.\n\nShowbiz personality Carmen Lomana said that after the death of her husband, owner of the offshore company, she took care of it but without knowing anything at all about the business or about tax. Bertín Osborne, host and Spanish singer, and the famous actor Imanol Arias, protagonist of one of the longest and most important series of the Spanish television, \"Cuéntame cómo pasó\", were named. Osborne said his account was legal and that he used it as recommended, to save money. He is also involved in a scandal over fraud to the Treasury, with actress and fellow protagonist on the series, Ana Duato. Juan Luis Cebrián, journalist, co-founder of \"El País\", and CEO of Prisa, a Spanish media conglomerate, owns 2% of Star Petroleum, a related oil corporation with tax havens. After being named, he decided to take legal action against La Sexta, who revealed his involvement in this scandal.\n\nThe former president of FC Barcelona, Josep Lluís Núñez, the current vicepresident, Carles Vilarrubí, and Eduardo Fernando de Blas, the vicepresident of Real Madrid, had offshore companies with Mossack Fonseca.\n\nThe Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FI) said on April 4, 2016, it would investigate the actions of Nordea, one of the largest financial institutions in the Nordic countries, after the Panama Papers revealed the bank's Luxembourg office had helped to set up nearly 400 offshore companies for its clients between 2004 and 2014 in Panama and the British Virgin Islands for their customers.\n\nThe Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FI) has said that \"serious deficiencies\" exist in how Nordea monitors for money laundering, and had given the bank two warnings. In 2015 Nordea had to pay the largest possible fine—over five million EUR. In 2012 Nordea asked Mossack Fonseca to change documents retroactively so that three Danish customers' power of attorney documents would appear to have been in force since 2010. The director for Nordea Private Banking, Thorben Sanders, has admitted that before 2009 Nordea did not screen for tax evaders: \"In the end of 2009 we decided that our bank shall not be a means of tax evasion,\" said Sanders. Other Swedish banks are also present in the documents, but Nordea occurs 10,902 times and the next most frequently mentioned bank only occurs 764 times. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (FI) later said that they would also investigate the other three big banks in Sweden: Handelsbanken, Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB) and Swedbank.\n\nNordea cut all ties with Mossack Fonseca following an interview with Nordea CEO Casper von Koskull on SVT on April 4.\n\nIn response to the leaks, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said he is very critical of Nordea's conduct and role, and Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson characterized the bank's conduct as \"totally unacceptable\".\n\nOn April 6, the federal police searched UEFA headquarters in Nyon as part of a \"criminal mismanagement\" probe into a Champions League television rights deal signed by FIFA's new president Gianni Infantino. The same day, Geneva's attorney general opened several procedures in reaction to a report about misconduct by Swiss lawyers and trustees.\n\nOn April 8, a few hours after the publication of a new series of articles focusing on art hidden behind offshore companies, a prosecutor sequestered a Modigliani worth some $25 million at Geneva Freeport. Litigation in New York alleged the painting had been stolen by Nazis during World War II; the defendants said they did not own it, but the leaked documents show that they control International Art Center, a shell company registered in Panama which does own it.\n\nYves Bouvier and Russian billionaire Dmitry Rybolovlev, in litigation over art pricing, both have Mossack Fonseca companies.\n\nThe leaked papers also shed light on the ownership of shell companies in protracted litigation in Lausanne over ownership of artwork from the Gstaad chalet of the late Greek shipping tycoon Basil Goulandris.\n\nOn April 11, another investigation into the abuse of the name of charities like Red Cross or WWF was launched.\n\nSwiss-based Diacore is a Mossack Fonseca client, and has approximately thirty companies through them. Diacore is run by Daniel Steinmetz, but until recently his brother Beny Steinmetz had a power of attorney for the company. Diacore is part of the Steinmetz Group.\n\nWhen Ukrainian president Petro Poroshenko took office in 2014, a popular uprising had just toppled his predecessor, Viktor Yanukovych. Poroshenko pledged to sell his candy business (Roshen) if elected, but leaked documents indicate that on August 21, 2014 he instead had Mossack Fonseca set up offshore holding company Prime Asset Partners Ltd in the British Virgin Islands and moved his company there, roughly two months after the election. The move had the potential to save him millions of dollars on his Ukrainian taxes. Records in Cyprus show him as the firm's only shareholder. Some legal experts say the explanation may be sound; however this isn't making a difference to Ukrainian media making the point that Poroshenko opened his offshore account in August 2014 as Ukrainian soldiers were being massacred by the Russians in Ilovaisk. The Panama Papers report may also have figured in the defeat of a trade deal with the Netherlands in a referendum there on April 6.\n\nAnti-corruption group Transparency International believes that the \"creation of businesses while serving as president is a direct violation of the constitution\". Also, journalists from the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project believe that with the move Poroshenko committed two other illegalities, starting a new business while in office and failing afterwards to report it on his disclosure statements. Poroshenko denied any wrongdoing and a spokesman said the offshore company had no active assets and was a legitimate corporate restructure aimed at helping to sell Poroshenko's Roshen group. Analysts in Ukraine responded that the secretive way Poroshenko set up these accounts was certain to undermine trust in him, his party and Ukraine itself.\n\nThe news about Poroshenko's offshore business came as his government campaigned against offshore companies. Oleh Lyashko, leader of the Radical Party, urged lawmakers to begin impeachment proceedings, and even some of his allies backed calls for a parliamentary commission to investigate the allegations.\n\nIn the Ukrainian Parliament, relations between the Poroshenko bloc and the People's Front party of Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk had over previous months already soured, with mutual accusations of corruption. The Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk also announced he would resign over Panama Papers leaks.\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", \"More than £170bn of UK property is now held overseas. ... Nearly one in 10 of the 31,000 tax haven companies that own British property are linked to Mossack Fonseca.\"\n\nIncluded among the Panama Paper documents are the names of six members of the House of Lords, several of whom have been donors to Cameron's Conservative Party, as well as other Conservative donors. These include:\n\n\nAs the United Kingdom still exercises varying degrees of control over British Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies which make up a large number of the many tax havens and \"secrecy jurisdictions\" that exist, pressure mounted on Prime Minister David Cameron to make changes. According to \"The Wall Street Journal\", the Panama Papers \"are shining a light on the constellation of offshore centers in the last remnants of the British Empire, from Gibraltar to the British Virgin Islands (BVI).\" Of the companies created by Mossack Fonseca which were included in the leaked data, the BVI companies topped the list, with 113,000 of the nearly 215,000 companies that Mossack Fonseca managed or incorporated there. British Overseas Territory Anguilla was 7th on the list.\n\nCameron criticized complex offshore structures in 2013, saying that it is \"not fair and not right what some [companies] are doing by saying 'I've got lots of sales here in the UK but I'm going to pay a sort of royalty fee to another company that I own in another country that has some special tax dispensation.'\" He said he would bring up the issue at the G8 summit that year. At the summit, Cameron demanded more transparency, arguing that it would be better for business. In 2014, Cameron asked all Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies to set up an open register of firms and individuals with investments registered in their jurisdictions, but by the time of the Panama Papers leak in April 2016, only Montserrat and Gibraltar had agreed to do so.\nLeader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn said \"The government needs to stop pussyfooting around on tax dodging\" and called for \"direct rule\" to be imposed over British Overseas Territories and Crown dependencies that act as tax havens. Former Business Secretary Vince Cable agreed, although former attorney general Dominic Grieve described the proposal as a \"bit of a nuclear option\" which would \"destroy the livelihoods\" of BVI inhabitants in the finance industry. The Labour Party also said that Cameron's planned \"anti-corruption\" summit in May would be \"a charade\" if Cameron, as chairman of the summit, did not require representatives of all Crown dependencies and overseas territories to attend.\n\nJennie Granger, a spokeswoman for HMRC, said that the department had received \"a great deal of information on offshore companies, including in Panama, from a wide range of sources, which is currently the subject of intensive investigation\". She said HMRC had asked ICIJ to share all its data.\n\n\"Private Eye\" revealed that Edward Troup, appointed executive chair of HMRC in April 2016, was a former partner with Simmons & Simmons, the London-based legal firm whose clients included the Panama-registered fund created by David Cameron's father, Blairmore Holdings. Papers obtained by the \"Süddeutsche Zeitung\" and ICIJ reveal Simmons & Simmons' close relationship with running offshore companies and major overseas property owners, including an investment company run on behalf of Sheikh Hamad bin Abdullah Al Thani, while Troup was its senior tax partner.\n\nIan Cameron, the late father of UK Prime Minister David Cameron, ran an offshore fund (Blairmore Holdings, Inc.) through Mossack Fonseca that avoided UK taxes for 30 years. His company moved to Ireland after David Cameron became Prime Minister. On April 6, Cameron admitted that he had owned shares in Blairmore, but said he sold his shares before becoming PM.\n\nProminent politicians criticized the involvement of the Cameron family in the scandal; Leader of the Opposition Jeremy Corbyn urged an immediate independent investigation into the tax affairs of Cameron's family as well as tighter laws on UK tax avoidance. Opponents also called for Cameron's resignation after he admitted owning shares in Blairmore.\n\nThe Panama Papers show Major-General of Justice and head of Armenia's Compulsory Enforcement Service Mihran Poghosyan was connected to three Panama-registered companies: Sigtem Real Estates Inc., Hopkinten Trading Inc., and Bangio Invest S.A., which issued bearer shares only. Poghosyan, who has a degree in economics, was the sole owner of Sigtem and Hopkinten, which together owned Best Realty Ltd, recently awarded government contracts.\n\nPoghosian resigned April 18, saying that it was unacceptable that he had caused Armenia's name to be mentioned alongside that of Azerbaijan, whose president Ilham Aliyev \"actually embezzled billions of dollars.\"\n\nOn April 8, Armenian Transparency International Anti-Corruption Center filed a petition with the Ethics Committee for High Level Officials, requesting an investigation of Poghosyan. Members of the families of Poghosyan's uncles Grigor and Mikhail Haroutyunyan were also mentioned in connection with his business.\n\nVaruzhan Hotkanian, head of the Armenian branch of the anti-corruption watchdog Transparency International, said that perhaps Poghosian was forced to resign by the country's leadership, since the evidence pointed directly to him. But, he said, he still questions the government's commitment to fighting corruption. Leading opposition figure Levon Zourabian demanded answers on the matter from the floor of Parliament.\n\nAzerbaijan International Mineral Resources Operating Company Ltd (AIMROC) and its consortium partners spent nearly US$230 million to open a mine and build a refinery in the western Azerbaijani village of Chovdar. AIMROC possibly produced US$30 million in gold before suddenly disappearing without making payroll in May 2014. Mine employees officially remain on vacation and under Azerbaijani law full-time employees cannot seek work elsewhere even though they have not been paid for two years.\n\nA 2012 investigation, by Radio Free Europe and the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP) discovered that through overseas holding companies, the daughters of Azerbaijani president Ilham Aliyev owned an interest in a gold mine operation created by a 2006 presidential decree forming a consortium, then awarding it a 30-year lease over environmental and transparency objections in Parliament.\n\nBut the Panama Papers made it possible to trace some of the elaborate network of shell companies that manage the ownership of the mines, and in 2016 OCCRP was able to establish that in fact the daughters control the mining operation.\n\nAliyev awarded the gold mines to Globex International LLP, Londex Resources S.A., Willy & Meyris S.A. and Fargate Mining Corporation. Thirty percent of the proceeds were allocated to the government of Azerbaijan; 11% of the remaining 70% went to Globex, 45% to Londex, 29% to Willy & Meyris and the remaining 15% to Fargate.\n\nThese companies were registered in Panama, according to the documents obtained from Panama Registry of Companies. A one of them, Fargate Mining Corporation was founded by Tagiva Management Ltd., Tagiva Services Ltd. and Verda Management Ltd. They issued the General Power of Attorney granted in favour of Azerbaijan-born individual Mr. Nasib Hasanov. Later, Londex Resources S.A., Globex International LLP, Fargate Mining Corporation and Willy&Meyris S.A. had been registered again at St. Kitts and Nevis with same addresses. It already used for registering other offshore energy holding – The Nobel Oil Ltd., partner of the state oil company SOCAR in Azerbaijan over Umid gas field. Founder of Nobel Oil Group also is Mr. N. Hasanov.\n\nThe 2012 investigation's reporters, established that Globex was owned through shell companies in Panama, and that these shell companies belonged to the president's daughters and a Swiss businessman whose name appears in other shell companies such as those that manage Azerphone, the family telecommunications monopoly. Villagers told reporters they hoped to work at the mine, which paid $12 a day, and asked them to intervene with the president about the problems the mine was causing with the water supply. They became angry and did not believe the reporters when they said the president's family had a stake in the mine.\n\nFollowing the May publication of this report, the National Assembly passed a law making it illegal to report company ownership and another giving former presidents and first ladies lifelong legal immunity. Khadija Ismayilova, the Radio Free Europe reporter on the 2012 investigation was subjected to escalating legal and public harassment. She was threatened and eventually arrested. She is currently serving a 7.5 year sentence for tax evasion and abuse of power.\n\nLeaked Mossack Fonseca documents made it possible to establish that the daughters also owned Londex, the majority partner in the gold enterprise. It is not entirely clear why they shut the operation down but industry experts familiar with the consortium say it did not seem very experienced and may have rushed into production.\n\nAccording to the ICIJ, Aliyev's daughter Arzu not only has financial stakes not only in gold rights but also in Azerfon, the country's largest mobile phone business. She has shares in SW Holding, which \"controls nearly every operation related to Azerbaijan Airlines\" (Azal), from meals to airport taxis. Both sisters and their brother Heydar own property in Dubai valued at roughly $75 million in 2010; Heydar is the legal owner of nine luxury mansions in Dubai purchased for some $44 million.\n\nLeaked documents show that daughters Leyla and Arzu Aliyeva both hold shares in Exaltation Limited, incorporated in April 2015 for \"holding UK property\". Child & Child, a London law firm that registered it and obtained nominee directors for it though the Jersey branch of Mossack, claimed in doing so that the women had no political connections.\n\nThe family of Azerbaijan President Ilham Aliyev leads a well-off life thanks in part to financial interests in various sectors of the nation's economy. His wife ascendants are privileged and powerful family that owns banks, insurance and construction companies, a television station and a line of cosmetics. She is well known for her pre-eminent charity work that has led to the construction of schools, hospitals and the country's major sports complex.\n\nOn April 7, 2016, the Anti Corruption Commission Bangladesh launched an inquiry to obtain details of the businesses and individuals allegedly affiliated with Mossack Fonseca. Allegations have been made against thirty-two Bangladeshi individuals and two corporations, however, media outlets staking this claim have referenced an old ICIJ database of information compiled during the investigation of the 2013 Offshore Leaks.\n\nRelatives of highly placed Chinese officials including seven current and former senior leaders of the Politburo of the Communist Party of China have been named, including former Premier Li Peng's daughter Li Xiaolin, former Communist Party general secretary Hu Yaobang's son Hu Dehua and Deng Jiagui, the brother-in-law of current general secretary Xi Jinping. Deng had two shell companies in the British Virgin Islands while Xi was a member of the Politburo Standing Committee, but they were dormant by the time Xi became General Secretary of the Communist Party (paramount leader) in November 2012. Others named include the son and daughter-in-law of propaganda chief Liu Yunshan and the son-in-law of Vice-Premier Zhang Gaoli.\n\nOfficial Chinese statistics show investment in British Overseas Territories acting as tax havens being much more significant than in other places: $44 billion invested in the Cayman Islands and $49 billion in the British Virgin Islands. Despite these figures \"probably exclud[ing] the private investments of the many family members of the ruling elite who have channelled money through the BVI\", both figures exceed Chinese investment in the United States and United Kingdom.\n\nChina's government is suppressing mention of the Panama Papers on social media and in search engines results, and reportedly told news organizations to delete all content related to the Panama Papers leak. Chinese authorities consider the material a concerted foreign media attack on China, and ordered Internet information offices to delete reports reprinted from the Panama Papers, and with no exceptions not to follow up on related content. Hong Lei, spokesman for China's foreign ministry, responded that he had \"no comment\" for \"such groundless accusations\" at an April 5 news conference.\n\nA screenshot showed that authorities had forced all websites to delete content about the Panama Papers. Foreign websites such as WikiLeaks and China Digital Times are blocked from mainland China. On Sina Weibo, a Twitter-like social media website, censors deleted content about the Panama Paper. However, the name of Xi's brother-in-law got through, and Weibo users tried to circumvent them with less obvious language such as \"brother-in-law\", \"Canal Papers\" (for the Panama Canal), and so on. Despite the censorship, Weibo search ranking was topped by phrases seemingly related to the Panama Papers, such as \"tax evasion\", \"document\", \"leak\" and \"Putin\".\n\nChinese entertainment magnate and art collector Wang Zhongjun also appears in the documents and did not respond to a request for comment.\n\nAccording to the Tax Justice Network, Chinese investors sometimes use overseas companies to take advantage of incentives China offers to foreign investors.\n\nCanadian broadcaster Radio Canada has reported that Hong Kong-based CITIC Pacific had Mossack Fonseca set up or manage more than 90 subsidiaries, and that the Chinese government was a majority stakeholder, according to fiscal expert Marwah Rizqy, professor of tax law at the Université de Sherbrooke.\n\nMossack Fonseca's Hong Kong office was its busiest, says the ICIJ, as Chinese officials and other wealthy figures would carry funds across the border and deposit them there to be channeled to offshore entities. Hong Kong invested HK$4.6 trillion (£360 billion) into the BVI – more than Hong Kong invested in mainland China – and received HK$4.1 trillion (over £300 billion) from the BVI. A further £20 billion or so was placed into the Cayman Islands and Bermuda individually.\n\nNewspaper \"Ming Pao\" fired deputy editor Keung Kwok-yuen following a front-page article on the Panama Papers which mentioned many prominent Hong Kong citizens. The paper blamed a \"difficult business environment,\" but had previously fired another editor in 2014 over another leak of offshore documents. Employees have been publishing blank columns scattered through the newspaper in protest of his dismissal.\n\nPolytechnic University has two offshore companies set up by Mossack Fonseca in 2012 and 2013. One was created by vice-president Nicholas Yang Wei-hsiung, who became IT minister of Hong Kong.\n\nBollywood celebrities Amitabh Bachchan, his daughter-in-law and actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and actor Ajay Devgan are listed in the papers. Bachchan has denied any connection to overseas companies, and a spokesman for Rai also questioned the documents' authenticity. Bachchan repeated the denial in response to an August 21 report that he was listed as a director of two companies and participated in board meetings.\n\nAlso listed are real estate developer and DLF CEO Kushal Pal Singh, Sameer Gehlaut of the Indiabulls group, and Gautam Adani's elder brother Vinod Adani. Shares of both companies fell following the release of the papers, as well as those of Apollo Tyres, which had also been mentioned. DLF said it had invested in existing overseas companies in compliance with the LRS Scheme set up in 2004 and reported this to the Indian tax agency. An Apollo spokesman said that the family members of Chairman Onkar Kanwar who had been reported as owning offshore companies did not live in India and had complied with the law where they resided. Gehlaut said he had paid full taxes and made full disclosures.\n\nIndian politicians on the list include Shishir Bajoria from West Bengal and Anurag Kejriwal, former chief of the Delhi Lok Satta Party. Bajoria said he owned two other Isle of Man companies but not the one ascribed to him in the leaked documents. Corporate services provider First Names Group acknowledged erroneously providing his information to Mossack Fonseca. MF records show Kejriwal as director of three offshore companies based in the British Virgin Islands (BVI), and holding two private foundations in Panama and power of attorney of another BVI company. He acknowledged having had offshore companies but said he shut them down after a short period of time.\n\nThe name of deceased drug kingpin Iqbal Mirchi has also surfaced in the papers. Some 500 Indian citizens appear to be mentioned.\n\nIndian government ordered an inquiry, and subsequently announced that it was constituting a special multi-agency group comprising officers from the investigative unit of the Central Board of Direct Taxes and its Foreign Tax and Tax Research Division, the Financial Intelligence Unit and the Reserve Bank of India.\n\nSome 600 Israeli companies and 850 Israeli shareholders are listed. Among the Israeli names found in the leaked documents are top attorney Dov Weissglass, who was the bureau chief of deceased prime minister Ariel Sharon; Jacob Engel, a businessman active in the African mining industry; and Idan Ofer, a member of one of Israel's wealthiest families, according to Haaretz.\n\nWeissglass' name appears as a sole owner of one of four companies set up by his business partner Assaf Halkin. The company, Talaville Global, was registered in the British Virgin Islands in May 2012, according to Haaretz, and seven months later, all of its shares were mortgaged against a loan from a Vienna bank.\n\nWeissglass and Halkin told Haaretz that the company \"was registered for the purpose of receiving a loan from the bank in order to invest in European properties. The bank would only allow a loan to a corporation... [the] company activity is reported to the tax authorities in Israel. The required tax on the said activity is paid in Israel.\"\n\nMany leaked documents reference Bank Leumi, primarily its branch on the island tax haven of Jersey. One of its customers, billionaire Teddy Sagi, made his fortune developing online gambling technology in England and recently developed the Camden Market commercial real estate space. Sagi is sole shareholder of at least 16 Mossack Fonseca offshore companies, mostly real estate ventures.\n\nIsraeli businessman Beny Steinmetz was also a Mossack Fonseca customer, with 282 companies.\n\nNawaz Sharif was the second top official to be ruled out as the result of information disclosures in the Panama Papers. Supreme Court disqualified him from office. One judge said that Mr Sharif was no longer \"eligible to be an honest member of the parliament\". Pakistan's ruling party, the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), was permitted by the speaker of the National Assembly to select an interim prime minister until the 2018 general election. The Supreme Court verdict was announced in the context of heightened security in the capital. Over 3,000 armed police and members of the Pakistan Rangers paramilitary force were deployed around the Supreme Court. The verdict followed months of dramatic news coverage and social media debates, the divisions falling largely along party lines.\n\nA hearing on October 18, 2017 resulted in an indictment for Sharif, who has faced allegations of corruption since the 1980s. The Panama Papers corroborated a federal inquiry in the mid-1990s and name both Nawaz Sharif and his younger brother, Punjab chief minister Shebaz Sharif. They also link in-laws of Shebaz Sharif and children of Nawaz Sharif to offshore companies. Mossack Fonseca records tie Nawaz' daughter Maryam Nawaz and her brothers Hussein and Hassan to four offshore companies, Nescoll Limited, Nielson Holdings Limited, Coomber Group Inc., and Hangon Property Holdings Limited.\nThe companies acquired luxury real estate in London during 2006–2007. The real estate was collateral for loans of up to $13.8 million, according to the Panama Papers. The prime minister's children say the money came from the sale of a family business in Saudi Arabia. But these offshore companies and assets were not disclosed on his family's wealth statement and the suspicion that the companies were meant to hide or launder ill-gotten wealth or to avoid taxes called Sharif's ethics into question.\n\nPrior to the ruling, Maryam Nawaz had tweeted denial of wrongdoing, adding that she did not own \"any company/property abroad,\" except as \"a trustee\" in a brother's corporation, \"which only entitles me to distribute assets to my brother Hussain's family/children if needed.\" The leaked documents name her as a trustee of Nescoll, created in 1993, and Nielson, first registered in 1994. The two companies subscribed to Mossack Fonseca services in July 2006. Mossack Fonseca was managing Nescoll, Nielsen Holdings, and Coomber Group when the three companies obtained a £7 million mortgage from the Swiss bank, Deutsche Bank (Suisse) SA and purchased four flats in Avenfield House, at 118 Park Lane in London. Hassan, the other brother, bought Hangon Holdings and its stock in 2007 for £5.5 million; Hangon then bought property, financed through the Bank of Scotland, at 1 Hyde Park Place in London.\n\nSamina Durrani, mother of Shebaz Sharif's second wife, and Ilyas Mehraj, brother of his first, also figure in the documents. Habib Waqas Group/Ilyas Mehraj is listed as a shareholder with 127,735 shares in Haylandale Limited, registered July 24, 2003 in the Bahamas. Mehraj has denied knowing anything about \"any company whether incorporated in the Commonwealth of Bahamas or anywhere else under the name: Haylandale Ltd.\" Rainbow Limited, the newest of the three offshore companies owned by Samina Durrani, was registered September 29, 2010 in the British Virgin Islands (BVI). Armani River Limited, registered in the Bahamas on May 16, 2002, describes its assets as \"property in London, which is not currently rented.\" Assets of Star Precision Limited, registered in BVI May 21, 1997, were reported as \"cash as the investment portfolio. We are also holding 1,165,238 shares in Orix Leasing Pakistan Limited.\"\n\nHussain Nawaz said his family won't hamper any investigation, and urged one of former president Pervez Musharraf as well. The government on April 15 announced an investigation by an inquiry commission of all Pakistanis named in the documents. Opposition politicians said a judge, not a retired judge, should investigate. Numerous judges recused themselves. On 28 July 2017, the Supreme Court of Pakistan, disqualified Sharif from holding office.\n\nThe late Benazir Bhutto was also a Mossack Fonseca client. In 2001 the firm set up BVI company Petroline International Inc. for Bhutto, her nephew Hassan Ali Jaffery Bhutto, and her aide and head of security Rehman Malik, who later became a Senator and Interior Minister in the government of Yousaf Raza Gillani. Mossack Fonseca had deemed Bhutto's first company, the similarly named Petrofine FZC, politically sensitive and \"declined to accept Mrs Bhutto as a client.\" A United Nations committee chaired by former US Federal Reserve head Paul Volcker had determined in a 2005 investigation into abuses of the oil-for-food program that Petrofine FZC paid US$2 million to the Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein to obtain US $115–145 million in oil contracts.\n\nIn 2006, the Pakistani National Accountability Bureau (NAB) accused Bhutto, Malik and Ali Jaffery of owning Petrofine, established since 2000 in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates. Bhutto and the Pakistan Peoples Party denied it. In April 2006 an NAB court froze assets owned in Pakistan and elsewhere by Bhutto and her husband Asif Ali Zardari, saying that the assets, totaling $1.5 billion, were the result of corrupt practices, and that Swiss charges of criminal money laundering filed in 1997 were still in litigation.\n\nTareq Abbas, a son of Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority, was revealed to hold $1 million in shares of the Arab Palestinian Investment Company (APIC), an offshore company associated with the Palestinian Authority and partially owned by the Authority's Palestine Investment Fund.\n\nHamad bin Jassim bin Jaber Al Thani, prime minister from 2007 to 2013, in 2002 acquired three shell companies incorporated in the Bahamas and another in the British Virgin Islands and through them moorage in Mallorca and a $300 million yacht named \"Al Mirqab\". The Panama Papers indicate he owns or owned eight shell companies. Subsequent reporting by \"Forbes\" found that Al Thani bought $700 million in Deutsche Bank shares in 2014 through Paramount Services Holdings and in 2015 transferred roughly half the stock to Supreme Universal Holdings, owned by a relative who had left office as emir of Qatar, also in 2013.\n\nKing Salman is mentioned in the leaks in relation to two companies based in the British Virgin Islands—Verse Development Corporation, incorporated in 1999, and Inrow Corporation, incorporated in 2002. The companies took out mortgages totaling over US$34 million and purchased properties in central London. His role in the companies was not specified. BVI company Crassus Limited, incorporated in 2004, registered a yacht in London, named \"Erga\" after King Salman's palace in Riyadh. The vessel boasts a banquet hall and can comfortably sleep 30. King Salman is described in the documents as its \"principal user\".\n\nFormer Crown Prince Muhammad bin Nayef is also named in the papers.\n\nThe \"Irish Times\" found a link to Iran-Contra in the Panama Papers, in the persons of one of America’s most colourful political donors Farhad Azima and multi-billionaire Adnan Khashoggi, who both employed Mossack Fonseca’s services, and were both important figures in Iran-Contra scandal.\n\nThe Mossack Fonseca files show Khashoggi appeared as early as 1978, when he became president of the Panamanian company ISIS Overseas S.A. The documents reveal that Fonseca’s clients included Sheikh Kamal Adham, Saudi Arabia’s first intelligence chief (1963-79), brother-in-law of King Faisal, who was named by a US Senate committee as the CIA’s “principal liaison for the entire the Middle East from the mid-1960s through 1979”. Adham controlled offshore companies involved in the B.C.C.I. banking sem as instruments for their official worcandal.\n\nThe Ministry of Finance and Monetary Authority of Singapore said in a statement that \"Singapore takes a serious view on tax evasion and will not tolerate its business and financial centre being used to facilitate tax related crimes. If there is evidence of wrongdoing by any individual or entity in Singapore, we will not hesitate to take firm action.\"\n\nSri Lankan Finance Minister Ravi Karunanayake said his panel will investigate Sri Lankan names that come up in the Panama Papers, as well as the 46 who appear in the 2013 Offshore Leaks, according to the \"Daily Mail\", since earlier leadership apparently did not do so. The country has many large outstanding foreign loans taken out under the administration of former president Mahinda Rajapakse, and the current government recently had to obtain a US$1.5 billion IMF bailout. Rajapakse has denied diverting funds. The current government came to power in January 2016 on an anti-corruption platform.\n\nRami Makhlouf, a maternal cousin of Bashar Al-Assad, was worth an estimated $5 billion before the Syrian Civil War, and had control of 60% of the economy. He was subject to sanctions by the United States and the European Union, and controlled Syria's oil and telecommunications business. The US Treasury charged that Pangates, a company registered to him, supplied the Assad government with a thousand tonnes of aviation fuel. However, the Makhloufs were able to continue to operate via Panama shell companies, registered in the British Virgin Islands, and so not subject to US law – however, on 9 May 2011, the EU issued its own sanctions, and these were extended by an order in council to the British Virgin Islands in July 2011. Mossack Fonseca decided 6 September to resign from Makhlouf's companies. By then, Makhlouf had already cut ties with his bank. HSBC told the law firm that the Swiss authorities had frozen Makhlouf's accounts, and that \"they have had no contact with the beneficial owner of this company since the last 3 months\".\n\nThe \"Bangkok Post\" reported that the \"Anti-Money Laundering Office (AMLO) is seeking information from its foreign counterparts regarding twenty-one Thai nationals reportedly included in a list of people worldwide using a Panama-based law firm apparently specializing in money laundering and tax evasion.\" It is not clear why AMLO is investigating only twenty-one. The Panama Papers include at least 780 names of individuals based in Thailand and another 50 companies based in Thailand. Some are foreigners or foreign-owned companies, but 634 individual addresses in Thailand appear in the documents that have surfaced to date, including the CEOs of giant companies Bangkok Land and Phatra Finance.\n\nInvestigations by ICIJ's sole East Asian partner \"CommonWealth Magazine\" in Taiwan found that at least 2,725 offshore companies had registered addresses in Taiwan. Ninety Taiwanese, including the singer and actor Nicky Wu, were included in the papers. According to a report released by \"CommonWealth Magazine\", Wu used the firm Horizon Sky Technology, Ltd. to co-operate with Hong Kong-based Sun Entertainment Culture Limited ().\n\nThe publisher concludes that: \"Taiwanese companies and individuals are believed to be extensively using offshore shelters to avoid or evade taxes ... after scouring the Panama Papers documents that Mossack Fonseca has not been one of their main conduits. This time, it appears that big Taiwanese banks, law firms and accounting firms did not often use the services of Mossack Fonseca, which does not have a presence in Taiwan. The forty-six Taiwanese brokers that did work with Mossack Fonseca were relatively small-scale consulting firms operating in Greater China. Most of the Taiwanese entities that set up shell companies through the Panamanian law firm were small, unlisted companies or individuals.\"\n\nICIJ, \"The Guardian\" and \"The Independent\" have reported that UAE President Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan owns London real estate worth more than £1.2 billion through a structure of some thirty shell companies Mossack Fonseca set up for him in the British Virgin Islands and administer for him, using them to manage and control the luxury properties in London. By December 2015, Mossack Fonseca held nearly all of the shares in those companies in trust structures on his behalf, with the President and his wife, son and daughter the trust beneficiaries.\n\nCanadian prime minister Justin Trudeau has denied any involvement in the affair, saying he had \"entirely and completely been transparent about mine and my family's finances. That is something I learned early on that Canadians expect from their leaders.\" Canada Revenue Agency said in a statement that its current tax evasion audits include \"some Canadian clients associated with law firm Mossack Fonseca,\" and added that it would \"communicate\" with its treaty partners to obtain any further information that may not currently be in its possession.\" The CRA has tax treaties with 92 different countries and 22 Tax Information Exchange Agreements.\n\nThe Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) denied any wrongdoing associated with the 370+ clients it had referred to Mossack Fonseca over the years.\"We have an extensive due diligence process... RBC works within the legal and regulatory framework of every country in which we operate,\" said a bank spokesman. CEO David McKay said the bank will review the four decades of documentation for any problems. CEO Bill Downe of the Bank of Montreal said \"Canadian banks have 'dramatically' beefed up anti-money laundering control over the last seven to 10 years,\" and added that any link between Canadian businesses and the Panama Papers companies would have originated a long time ago, before Canadian banks took action to stop money laundering.\n\nSome individuals did surface in the leaked documents, according to ICIJ partner in the investigation \"Toronto Star\".\n\n\nCanadians for Tax Fairness had calculated that legal tax avoidance by corporations alone cost the Canadian treasury almost $8 billion Canadian a year. When it calculated the 2015 numbers, they found that corporations and individuals combined sent CAN$40 billion of declared assets to tax havens, and the ten most popular alone now held $270 billion Canadian in assets.\n\nThe administration of President Luis Guillermo Solís suggested that some of the activity unveiled by the leaked documents suggests attempts to evade taxes. His administration's effort to implement tax increases and reforms has met strong resistance from opposition and business figures.\n\nLeaked documents suggest that Mossack Fonseca helped tuna export company Borda Azul set up a shell company in the British Virgin Islands in order to avoid Costa Rican taxes. The firm, now out of business, was headed by Hermes Navarro, president of the Costa Rican Football Federation from 1999 to 2006. In the late 1990s the Finance Ministry and Prosecutor's Office investigated Borda Azul and other export companies for allegedly misusing tax credit certificates; in 1997 dozens of companies had been accused of using the certificates for fraud and to launder drug profits.\n\nAccording to ICIJ investigative partners DataBaseAR and Seminario Universidad, Mossack Fonseca helped Borda Azul fabricate invoices to allow it to report both inflated costs—to reduce its taxes—and inflated exports, to allow it to continue to qualify for the tax credit certificates. In a letter dated October 19, 1998, a Mossack Fonseca lawyer explained the investigation to the Panama City office and concluded:\n\nMore than thirty Costa Rican law firms are mentioned in the Panama Papers as referring clients to Mossack Fonseca, resulting in the creation of more than 360 shell companies. in particular Gonzalo Fajardo & Asociados, founded by former Finance Ministry official and later Economy Minister Gonzalo Fajardo Salas, and over nearly two decades helped Costa Rican companies set up 82 offshore corporations in tax havens, according to DataBaseAR.\n\nFinance Vice Minister Fernando Rodríguez said Costa Rica will push to sign a Tax Information Exchange Agreement with Panama. Legislators from several parties are trying to line up political consensus to seek approval of the administration's tax fraud bill and to form a legislative commission to investigate those named in the Panama Papers, according to Emilia Molina Cruz of the Citizens' Action Party. While opposition parties have maintained that the country's financial problems stem from excess spending, according to the Finance Department, the sums Costa Rica loses to tax evasion equal about 8% of the country's gross domestic product, while its deficits have run at about 6%.\n\nAristóteles Núñez, who is in charge of the government's tax administration, , said that people involved in the Panama Papers case can still make tax declarations and pay taxes on their investments. Being Mexican and having foreign investments or bank accounts is not a crime, but having income and not declaring it is illegal. If investments are categorized as tax evasion, fines of up to 100% of the omitted tax payment can result, as well as three months to nine years imprisonment.\n\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", \"Hinojosa and other prominent Mexicans, mostly businessmen with close ties to the government, including at least one member of the Forbes billionaires list, were the subject of extensive articles published online by ICIJ investigation partners \"Proceso\" and \"Aristegui Noticias Sunday\".\" Proceso also said that the Mexicans mentioned in the leaked documents included individuals linked to drug cartels.\n\nKen Emrith, a member of the opposition United National Congress (UNC), is linked to a bribery scandal in Brazil through Panamanian shell companies used to transfer millions of US dollars to offshore bank accounts. The Brazilian construction company was awarded a contract in 2011 through the National Infrastructure Development Company (NIDCO) by the People's Partnership administration to build a highway in Trinidad for TT$5.2 billion. The highway is 49% complete, but it is now estimated that the highway will cost TT$8 billion when done. Investigators have found that Emirth's companies received $6 million from NIDCO and that Emirth was also a director of Pembury Consultants (Trinidad and Tobago) Limited, which OAS hired on the highway project as a consultant at $44,800 a month. Through May 2013 OAS paid Pembury at least TT$896,000; totals beyond that date are not currently available.\n\nEmrith, described as a low-level UNC party official, had a second Mossack Fonseca company, Pendrey Associates. Speaking in Parliament, Attorney General Faris Al-Rawi said the leaked documents tied this offshore company to key players in the Petrobras scandal in Brazil, including the convicted , and Jose Luiz Pires of Queluz, who had dealings with Swiss AG. Pires is under investigation, he said.\n\nAccording to ICIJ investigative partner \"Trinidad Express\", Emrith was a close associate of Jack Warner and also owns half the shares in Proteus Holding SA, an investment he refuses to discuss because he says he has a responsibility of confidentiality to fellow shareholders. The \"Express\" also says that OAS used a Namibian port development project as camouflage for a $1 million payment from Procopio shell company Santa Tereza Services Ltd to Emirth.\n\nPresident Barack Obama was critical of Caribbean tax havens in his 2008 election campaign. In 2010, the United States implemented the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act; the law required financial firms around the world to report accounts held by US citizens to the Internal Revenue Service.\n\nThe US on the other hand refused to sign on to the Common Reporting Standard set up by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, alongside Vanuatu and Bahrain. This means the US receives tax and asset information for American assets and income abroad, but does not share information about what happens in the United States with other countries, which in other words means that the United States has become attractive as a tax haven.\n\nAt least 2,400 US-based clients were found in the papers and many of their transactions were legal, however Mossack Fonseca offered advice to many of its US clients on how to evade US tax and financial disclosure laws.\n\nThe Panama Free Trade Agreement, supported by Obama and Clinton, has been accused of enabling the practices detailed within the Panama Papers through regulatory oversight. However, an Obama administration official said the argument has \"zero merit\". John Cassidy of \"The New Yorker,\" said the Panama Free Trade Agreement actually forced Panama to release information to the American regulatory authorities on \"the ownership of companies, partnerships, trusts, foundations, and other persons\".\n\nCiting leaked diplomatic cables, \"Fortune\" writer Chris Matthews speculated that Obama and Clinton may have supported the agreement, after opposing it while campaigning for office, because it was a \"quid pro quo\" for Panamanian support of US efforts against drug trafficking. In any event, he notes, while it is true that the agreement abolished limits on fund transfers between the US and Panama, the Obama administration insisted that the two countries first sign a Tax Information and Exchange Agreement as well, which facilitated the exchange of tax information between the countries.\n\nPresident Barack Obama addressed the overseas shell companies listed by the leak in a press conference: \"It's not that they're breaking the laws,\" he said, \"it's that the laws are so poorly designed that they allow people, if they've got enough lawyers and enough accountants, to wiggle out of responsibilities that ordinary citizens are having to abide by.\" Although no leader in the US was mentioned in the Panama Papers, Obama said that \"Frankly, folks in America are taking advantage of the same stuff\".\n\nSenators Sherrod Brown and Elizabeth Warren have requested that the Treasury Department investigate any US-linked companies that appeared in the leaks, in addition to the Justice Department, given its role in the financial markets.\n\nFormer Secretary of State and 2016 Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton condemned \"outrageous tax havens and loopholes ... in Panama and elsewhere\" at a Pennsylvania AFL–CIO event. Clinton added that \"some of this behavior is clearly against the law, and everyone who violates the law anywhere should be held accountable\", but it was \"scandalous how much is actually legal\". Clinton promised that \"We are going after all these scams and make sure everyone pays their fair share here in America.\"\n\nManhattan US Attorney Preet Bharara has opened a criminal investigation on matters related to the Panama Papers and sent a letter April 3 to the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ) saying his office \"would greatly appreciate the opportunity to speak as soon as possible.\" The ICIJ received many such requests from many countries and ICIJ Director Gerard Ryle has said its policy is not to turn over any materials.\n\nNew York's Department of Financial Services has asked 13 foreign banks, including Deutsche Bank AG, Credit Suisse Group AG, Commerzbank AG, ABN Amro Group NV and Societe Generale SA, for information about their dealings with Mossack Fonseca. The banks are not accused of wrongdoing but must provide telephone logs and records of other transactions between their New York branches and the law firm.\n\nMcClatchy Newspapers initially found four Americans with offshore shell companies named in the documents. All had previously been either accused or convicted of financial crimes such as fraud or tax evasion. Three reasons have been suggested to explain the scarcity of Americans in the leak:\n\n\nAsked about the paucity of American individuals in the documents, digital editor of \"Süddeutsche Zeitung,\" Stefan Plöchinger, said via Twitter: \"Just wait for what is coming next.\" Plöchinger later clarified that he was just advocating not jumping to conclusions. Copies of at least 200 American passports – indicating that their owners applied for banking services – have been discovered in the Papers, but no US politicians have yet been named in the leak. The names of a few Americans are however mentioned:\n\n\nArgentine president Mauricio Macri is listed as head of a trading company based in the Bahamas that he did not disclose during his tenure as Mayor of Buenos Aires; it is not clear whether disclosure of non-equity directorships was then required under Argentine law.\n\nOn April 7, 2016, federal prosecutor Federico Delgado began a formal investigation into Macri's involvement with Fleg Trading Ltd., the company registered in Panama for which President Macri was listed as director. Judge Sebastián Casanello was asked to start the file on the inquiry. The initial petition was made by Neuquén representative Darío Martínez. Martínez claims Macri could be guilty of perjury due to omissions in his sworn statement. Martínez also referenced another offshore company, Kagemusha SA (named after Akira Kurosawa's 1980 film), which was established in 1981 and to which President Macri also had connections. An investigation by news outlets \"El Destape\" and \"InfoEconomico\" at the end of April found however that Macri had been involved in at least eight other holding companies, at least seven founded and run by his friends and relatives through Mossack Fonseca. Most are active; at least one is only a year old.\n\nDaniel Muñoz, the private secretary and confidant of former Argentinian president Néstor Kirchner later also served for two years as an aide to Néstor Kirchner's wife, Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, who was president of Argentina from 2007 to 2015. Muñoz and his wife were linked to Gold Black Limited, a company incorporated in the British Virgin Islands in 2010 to invest in US real estate. The origin of the company's funds was listed as \"personal savings\". From 2010 to the beginning of 2015, the company's ownership was through bearer shares, a financial instrument that can be used to hide an owner's identity. One of the directors, Sergio Tadisco, told ICIJ partner Canal Trece that he was just a figurehead who said he agreed to his name being used in 2011 because of his friendship with Muñoz and his wife. In January 2015, Muñoz and his wife became named shareholders, owning 50 percent each. By that time, Mossack Fonseca had become the registered agent of Gold Black. However, only three weeks later, its compliance department proposed resigning because Muñoz was identified in connection with the governments of the Kirchners. The resignation became effective in June 2015.\n\nIn 2009, Muñoz was investigated for illicit enrichment, a charge that was later dropped. In 2013, Argentinian media reported that Muñoz had helped transfer \"bags of money\" belonging to President Néstor Kirchner from Buenos Aires, the Argentine capital, to Santa Cruz, the Kirchner's home state. Charges in relation to the matter were dismissed in July 2015 for lack of evidence. On May 25, 2016 he died from a cancer that he had for the last four years.\n\nThe family of Argentine Barcelona football player Lionel Messi said they would file a complaint after reports said Mossack Fonseca set a company up for him in 2012 named Mega Star Enterprises Inc. The family denied Messi had been involved and called the accusations slanderous. They said that the company referred to in the Panama Papers was inactive and that Messi had declared all income from image rights before and after proceedings with the Argentine Tax Agency. Messi alongside his father Jorge stood trial on three counts of tax evasion in May 2016. Spanish prosecutors say he tried to evade €4.1m in taxes on income from his image rights by assigning them to front companies in Belize and Uruguay. On 6 July 2016, Messi and his father were both found guilty of tax fraud and were handed suspended 21-month prison sentences, and respectively ordered to pay €1.7 million and €1.4 million in fines.\n\nFive billionaires from Brazil, the sons of two Brazilian billionaires, and four former billionaire Brazilian families appear in the Panama Papers leak, according to Forbes. The Brazilian news website UOL has access to the leaked documents and has published an article and a list. Like many Panama Paper reports, their story cautions that some of the people mentioned in the documents may be doing nothing wrong: \"In general there is nothing illegal per se in having an offshore company and in fact it is very common for an international business to set one up for transactions and joint ventures when they're doing business all over the world,\" said Brazil-based Marcello Hallake, a Brazil-based partner of the law firm Jones Day.\n\nHowever, six out of ten members of Congress now face one criminal investigation or another. High-profile construction executives and a senator are among the 84 people arrested in the Petrobras scandal, a number that reflects the job protections in the 1988 Constitution for judges and prosecutors.\n\nThree men (Marcel Herrmann Telles, Carlos Alberto Sicupira and Jorge Felipe Lemann, son of their long-time business partner Jorge Paulo Lemann, Brazil's richest man and a controlling shareholder of Anheuser-Busch InBev) set up three offshore companies in the British Virgin Islands and the Bahamas tied to private equity firm 3G and to beer firm Ambev, a unit of Anheuser-Busch Inbev, according to UOL. Two of the companies are no longer active and the men are no longer tied with the third. They told UOL the companies had been publicly disclosed and registered. Documents described Lemann as an advisor to Brazilian firm Sao Carlos. His father and father's business partners own a controlling stake.\n\nThe Panama Papers reveal that a former Supreme Court judge, Joaquim Barbosa, bought an apartment in downtown Miami.\n\nPolice raided the São Paulo offices of Mossack Fonseca in January 2016, seeking records about offshore companies the firm opened for two former executives of Petróleo Brasileiro S.A. (Petrobras) who were convicted in 2015 of corruption and money laundering. Police say the companies were used to hide illegally diverted funds.\n\nIn January 2016, even before the Panama Papers were published, the Brazilian Federal Police, as part of a corruption investigation known as Operation Car Wash, had already accused Mossack Fonseca's law firm of helping suspects create offshore entities to hide corrupt money. They alleged that the firm used a real estate company to help hide criminal proceeds from the scheme involving Petrobras.\n\nThe leak complicated an already volatile political situation in Brazil, where a tanking economy had led to calls for the impeachment of President Dilma Rousseff amid many revelations of political corruption. As impeachment proceedings began, it became clear that the next two people in the order of succession have been implicated in the Petrobras scandal. According to \"O Estado de São Paulo\", a company belonging to Eduardo Cunha, speaker of the lower house of the legislature and a leader of the impeachment drive, has surfaced in the Panama Papers. Rousseff herself is not mentioned in the papers.\n\nPoliticians from seven different political parties in Brazil were named as clients of Mossack Fonseca. Leaked files mention politicians from Brazil's largest party, the PMDB, which broke away from President Dilma Rousseff's coalition in 2016. Political figures from the PSDB, the most prominent opposition party in the country, were also mentioned in the leaks, as well as others from the PDT, PP, PSB, PSD and the PTB parties. No politicians from Rousseff's party were mentioned in the leaks.\n\nA group of Dutch journalists from the daily newspaper \"Trouw\" found evidence in the Panama Papers showing that TV Globo is cited \"many times\" in a money laundering investigation of the De Nederlandsche Bank which revealed that for years the media outlet conducted \"irregular financial transactions\" through tax havens in order to pay for broadcast rights for the Copa Libertadores.\n\nThe head of the Chilean branch of Transparency International, which campaigns against corporate secrecy, resigned when his name was linked to five firms in tax havens by the leaked documents.\n\nThe National Directorate of Taxes and Customs launched an investigation into all 850 clients of Mossack Fonseca Colombia, a subsidiary of Mossack Fonseca that was established in 2009. In 2014, Colombia had placed Panama onto its blacklist of tax havens. The leaked documents also led Panama to move forward with the ongoing negotiations with Colombia on tax information-sharing.\n\nEcuadorian journalists have published the names of three current government officials, and the Panama Papers also reveal that in 2012 the Panamanian government believed that a Mossack Fonseca company the anti-corruption prosecutor was investigating for embezzlement, Orlion S.A., had been sold to president Rafael Correa Delgado and his brother Fabricio Correa in 2006. Mossack Fonseca had been asked for shareholder information but did not have it, and so contacted Legalsa & Asociados, a law firm in Guayaquil, Ecuador which had set up the offshore for a client. Shortly afterwards the firm dropped the offshore due to lack of information.\n\nCorrea's cousin, Pedro Delgado Campana, convicted in absentia in Ecuador for embezzlement, bought a home in North Miami Beach through a Mossack Fonseca company with his wife, who was Consul of Ecuador in Miami at the time.\n\nArturo Torres, investigative editor of \"El Comercio\", told the Knight Center his newspaper published two stories connected to the Panama Papers:\n\n\nHe and the rest of the six journalists from Ecuador report they have received summonses and subpoenas from little-known anticorruption agency Council of Citizen Participation and Social Control (CPCCS), demanding all documents. A scheduled hearing was postponed due to the earthquake April 16. The National Assembly's Commission of Justice has also opened an investigation.\n\nMónica Almeida of \"El Universo\" said that the government has taken coverage of the Panama Papers as an attack on itself. Stories in the Ecuadorian media have mentioned attorney general Galo Chiriboga; Pedro Delgado Campaña, the former president of the Central Bank of Ecuador and Correa' cousin; and Javier Molina, a former adviser of the Ministry of Intelligence and one of the founders of Mossack Fonseca in Quito.\n\nTwo supporters of leading candidate Keiko Fujimori have undeclared interests on Mossack Fonseca companies, according to ICIJ partner \"OjoPúblico\", which said as well that three renowned chefs and Peru's largest timber company were also implicated.\n\nMario Vargas Llosa, who also has Spanish nationality, and his wife bought an offshore company through the buffer Mossack Fonseca. The couple appears linked to this from September 1, 2010, to October 6 of that year, shortly after Vargas Llosa won the Nobel Prize for Literature. After appearing linked, they denied using any tax havens.\n\nFive people were arrested on April 22, on suspicion of laundering funds for a Mexican drug cartel. A Uruguayan investigation had been underway, but authorities decided to move because of reports in an ICIJ partner, the weekly \"Búsqueda\", that Gerardo González Valencia had used Mossack Fonseca companies to buy real estate in Uruguay. The head of the Los Cuinos cartel, his brother Abigael González Valencia, is now imprisoned in Mexico and the United States has designated him a drug kingpin, as well as his brother-in-law Nemesio Oseguera Cervantes, who leads the Jalisco New Generation Cartel (CJNG).\n\nJosmel Velásquez, brother of a security official under the late Hugo Chávez, was arrested April 15 trying to catch a flight out of the country due to an offshore company revealed by the Panama Papers. His mother Amelis Figueroa was also arrested, but allowed to return home due to her health. Venezuelan news site Armando.info reported that Josmel's brother Adrian, a former aide to late President Hugo Chávez, had opened a shell company though Mossack Fonseca in the Republic of the Seychelles with a $50,000 deposit. Their report was based on the documents leaked from Panamanian law firm Mossack Fonseca. Velásquez was Indicted April 20.\n\nFranklin Durán, notorious in Venezuela and Argentina for his part in \"el maletinazo\", or \"suitcase scandal\" involving an alleged illicit contribution from Venezuelan president Hugo Chavez to Christina Fernandez de Kirchner of $800,000 from the Venezuelan state-run oil company, PDVSA, was able to open a shell company from a jail cell in the United States, where he was serving a sentence for operating as an unregistered foreign agent.\n\nFormer South African president Thabo Mbeki, head of the African Union's panel on illicit financial flows, on April 9 called the leak \"most welcome\" and called on African nations to investigate the citizens of their nations who appear in the papers. His panel's 2015 report found that Africa loses $50 billion a year due to tax evasion and other illicit practices and its 50-year losses top a trillion dollars. Furthermore, he said, the Seychelles, an African nation, is the fourth most mentioned tax haven in the documents.\n\nMinister of Industry and Mines Abdeslam Bouchouareb has been sole owner of a Panamanian-registered offshore company known as Royal Arrival Corp since 2015. The company, active in Turkey, Great Britain and Algeria, is managed through Compagnie d'Etude et de Conseil (CEC), based in Luxembourg, and has an account in the Swiss NBAD Private Bank. CEC confirmed the ownership of Royal Arrival and said it managed the minister's inherited assets with transparency.\n\nAlgeria estimates it has lost 16 billion dollars offshore between 2004 and 2014, a cause for concern given the drop in the price of oil, which accounts for 95% of Algeria's external revenue.\n\nThe Panama Papers exposed a link between an American oil company's oil concessions and several powerful politicians in Angola. According to the leaked documents approximately fifteen shell companies funneled money through UBS bank accounts to elites in Portugal with direct ties to Helder Bataglia dos Santos of Escom, which describes itself as one of the largest investors in Angola and the Democratic Republic of Congo. The account of one company, Markwell Inc, received and sent on over $12 million in 2008 and 2009.\n\nPetroleum Minister José Maria Botelho de Vasconcelos had power of attorney for an offshore company in 2002, when he became petroleum minister after previously being employed for a number of years as an executive at Sonangol, according to the leaked documents. He denies wrongdoing. ICIJ partner \"Le Monde\" says it has seen documents that show he was the proxyholder for Medea Investments Limited, founded in Niue in 2001, and moved to Samoa five years later. The company, which issued only bearer bonds, had a capitalization of $1 million, and closed in 2009. He has never previously been accused of corruption.\n\nAngola's $5 billion sovereign wealth fund, the Fundo Soberano de Angola (FSDEA), promotes itself as a vehicle of development and prosperity for Angola. The FSDEA is headed by José Filomeno de Sousa \"Zenu\" dos Santos, the son of President José Eduardo dos Santos, who has been in power since 1979. Funded by the state-owned petroleum company Sonangol, the FSDEA has critics who say that its record-keeping is murky and that it seems to engage in nepotism and cronyism.\n\nIan Kirby, head of the Court of Appeal, owns seven holding companies in the British Virgin Islands. He has said they were intended for investment, and lost money.\n\nIn 2015, Congo produced 290,000 barrels of oil a day. Philia's attorney denied receiving advantageous pricing and said it only received 2.5% of Coraf oil.\n\nDenis Christel Sassou-Nguesso is the son of Denis Sassou Nguesso, in power for 32 years and re-elected in March in a disputed election. Daniel is a representative for Oyo, a member of the ruling Parti congolais du travail or Congolese Party of Labour. He is also the assistant director-general of the Société nationale des pétroles du Congo (SNPC), and general manager of the national refinery, Coraf. According to leaked documents he had Mossack Fonseca establish a shell company in the British Virgin Islands for him named Phoenix Best Finance Ltd.\n\nHis name also appears in 2002 as a director of Geneva-based Philia SA alongside oil merchant Jean-Philippe Amvame Ndong. He has denied all knowledge of any of these matters.\n\nAccording to Swiss non-profit Berne Declaration, Philia has an exclusive no-bid contract for Congolese oil exports from the Coraf refinery, and for the last three years the country has not received any payment at all for oil shipped to the refinery.\n\nBruno Itoua was the president's advisor on oil and director-general of the SNPC until 2005. A US federal court found that he diverted funds to fictitious companies, but he nonetheless became minister of energy. Panama Papers documents seen by \"Le Monde\" reveal he has also held the power of attorney since 2004 for Denvest Capital Strategies and Grafin Associated SA, registered by Mossack Fonseca in Panama and the British Virgin Islands. Itoua is currently minister for scientific research.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2002, the Kabila regime \"transferred ownership of at least $5 billion of assets from the state-mining sector to private companies under its control ... with no compensation or benefit for the State treasury\", a United Nations investigation found.\n\nThe US Dodd-Frank Act was supposed to help bring about the end of conflict diamonds and minerals in the US. The idea was that public opinion would force divestment over time. Section 1502 does not require divestment, but does mandate disclosure. But instead the disclosure requirement has simply meant new business opportunities for money launderers.\n\nAs recently as 2014 the UN found that 70 percent of DRC gold was sold in Dubai without any problem, while gold continued to provide important funding for both the army and armed rebel groups.\n\nIn March 2005, Dan Gertler International formed a new company, Global Enterprises Corporate (GEC), with Global Resources, owned by Beny Steinmetz. A former DRC mines minister, Simon Tuma-Waku, was \"special adviser\". The company formed a joint copper and cobalt mining venture with DRC agency La Générale Des Carriers et Des Mines (Gécamines), which held 25%, and GEC 75%, which they placed into an Isle of Man holding company, Nikanor plc. The IPO raised £400 million in London and the company eventually reached a market capitalization of $1.5 billion for an initial investment of $3 million.\n\n\nSteinmetz appears in 282 leaked documents; Gertler of Dan Gertler Inc, who had ties to Joseph Kabila and his closest aide, more than 200. The presidential decree that ratified the agreement was issued despite the recommendation against it by the anti-corruption Lutundula Commission.\n\nAccording to the Panama Papers, Kabila's twin sister owns part of an offshore company with interests in Congo that include a part of mobile-phone company Vodacom Congo. The government called a press conference to warn journalists against printing the names of any Congolese figures that might appear in the documents. Kabila's sister, Jaynet Désirée Kabila Kyungu and Feruzi Kalume Nyembwe, an advisor to their late father and former president Laurent-Désiré Kabila are both directors of Keratsu Holding Limited, a company registered in Niue through Mossack Fonseca a few months after the elder Kabila's assassination. Keratsu held 19.6% of the shares in Congolese Wireless Network, which held 49% of Vodacom Congo.\n\nLucien Ebata, a Kinshasa businessman, runs Orion Group SA, registered in the Seychelles in 2009 by Mossack Fonseca through the Luxembourg-based Figed, according to the Panama Papers. Ebata, who receives a salary of a million dollars, does a business volume of around a billion, and counts both Shell and the Société nationale des pétroles du Congo (SNPC) among his customers.\n\nIn theory American and European buyers of gold in Africa are required to review their supply chain and report any use of conflict resources, such as gold from eastern Congo. In practice the requirement is widely ignored, and an investigation by African Network of Centers for Investigative Reporting (ANCIR) found examples in the leaked Mossack Fonseca documents of anonymous shell companies doing the sourcing. For a start, most of the DRC gold winds up in Dubai by way of Uganda. Dubai's $75 billion gold industry is regulated with a very light hand by the quasi-private Dubai Multi Commodities Centre (DMCC).\n\nKalotti, which exports about 40% of Dubai's gold, bought about $5.2 billion in gold in 2012 with little to no paperwork, according to Ernst & Young partner Amjad Rihan. Rijan has said that both the DMCC and his employer squashed his concerns, and the DMCC changed its audit procedures to ensure a more favorable outcome in the future. ANCIR journalists obtained records showing that Kalotti has sold \"scrap gold\" to other refiners including Valcambi. Leaked documents show PAMP Holding Mauritius signed an agreement with MKS Holding BV and two shell companies described as its beneficial owners: Panama-based Mountside Investment and Hong Kong-based Dynamic Bonus Limited. In 2010 MKS Holdings owned 72% of a joint venture between MMTC Ltd., owned by the State of India, and Switzerland's PAMP. This joint venture does supply big multinationals like Apple.\n\nAlaa Mubarak, son of former president Hosni Mubarak, was cited as owning, through holding companies, real estate properties in London. The assets of his Virgin Islands-registered firm Pan World Investments were frozen in response to a European Union order when his father stepped down in 2011 during the Arab Spring. Mossack Fonseca was fined $37,500 in 2013 for lack of due diligence. Alaa and his brother were convicted last year of embezzling state funds and still face trial for insider trading.\n\nEgyptian businessmen Mohamed Abu El-Enein, Ahmed Bahgat, Ashraf Marwan, Ibrahim Kamal, Mohamed Nosseir, Mohamed Mansour, Raouf Ghabbour, and Mohamed Al-Maghraby are all named in the leaked documents, as well as the Orascom Development Holding company, headed by Samih Sawiris, and also the Bank of Alexandria, Banque Misr, and Banque du Caire.\n\nFormer Sudanese President Ahmed al-Mirghani was a client of Mossack Fonseca also. Al-Mirghani lived in Egypt after the 1989 coup that ended his presidency and was active in the Democratic Unionist Party. Orange Star Corporation bought a long-term lease in a tony London neighborhood near Hyde Park for $600,000 the same year al-Mirghani created it, and at the time of his death held assets worth $2.72 million.\n\nEvery Ramadan he fed 500 people; he financed about 20 pilgrimages to Mecca every year. Described as a billionaire, Seydou Kane holds diplomatic passports from Senegal, Gabon and Mali. The protocol officer of the Senegalese Embassy in Paris was waiting for him when his plane landed at Roissy-Charles-de-Gaulle in November 2015. But Kane, a close associate of the Gabonese ruling family, was questioned and jailed in Nanterre for ten hours by anti-corruption agents in connection with an investigation opened in July 2007.\n\nIn January 2013 Kane was briefly questioned while in transit to Miami at Le Bourget by French authorities whose curiosity was piqued by €2.5 million cash he had on his person.\n\nAccording to Senegalese daily \"Libération\", the money-laundering unit Tracfin became interested in 2006 in a €300,000 payment from Groupe Marck, a French company specializing in military uniforms and anti-riot gear, to a Monaco-based entity called Citp. Citp was managed by Kane, a close friend of the president's chief of staff, Maixent Accrombessi, himself held in Paris and interrogated in August 2015. French officials wanted to ask Accrombessi about a contract between Marck and the Gabonese Ministry of the Interior for €7 million. The head of Marck, Philippe Belin, was also held and questioned. The investigation was assigned to , who also conducted the so-called \"ill-gotten goods\" investigation, which targeted a number of African leaders including the father and predecessor of Ali Bongo Ondimba, the current president of Gabon.\n\nMossack Fonseca opened two holding companies for Kane in 2013 and 2014: Maxi Gold International Limited and Smart Key LTD, which according to their paperwork traded in sundries on the one hand and gym equipment on the other.\n\nJohn Addo Kufuor, son of John Agyekum Kufuor, had Mossack Fonseca manage his trust starting in 2001 when his father took office. The trust held $75,000 in a bank account in Panama; his mother was also a beneficiary. He was linked to two other offshore companies also registered during his father's term. They are now inactive.\n\nKojo Annan, son of former Secretary-General of the United Nations Kofi Annan, appears with Laolu Saraki, the son of the late Nigerian senator Abubakar Olusola Saraki, as shareholders in Blue Diamond Holding Management Corp, registered by Mossack Fonseca in the British Virgin Islands in 2002. The two were directors of Sutton Energy Ltd, also registered in the British Virgin Islands in 2002, then transferred to Samoa. In 2015, Annan used another shell company first registered in the British Virgin Islands, then transferred to Samoa, to purchase an apartment in London for $500,000.\n\nIn 2008–2009, the Beny Steinmetz Group Resources (BSGR) and its owner Beny Steinmetz paid just $165 million for the mining rights to the northern portion of Simandou mine, located in the Nzérékoré region of Guinea's interior. Soon after, he sold 51 percent of the rights to Vale for $2.5 billion. Rio Tinto, which had previously held the concession, had invested $450 million into infrastructure at the site. Global Witness says BSGR in fact paid nothing for the rights, and the $165 million represents BSGR's self-reported investment in improvements at the site. It adds that either way BSGR's profit exceeded the national budget of Guinea.\n\nUS authorities say that Steinmetz paid Mamadie Touré $5.3 million for her help in obtaining the concession from her husband Lansana Conté, president of Guinea, shortly before he died.\nAccording to Global Witness, an offshore company belonging to Touré, Matinda, received a payment of $2.4 million from a company named Pentler Holdings. Several more payments were promised as well as 5% of BSGR shares in Simandou. Pentler owned 17.65% of BSGR Guinea.\n\nGuinean President Alpha Condé launched an investigation after he was elected in 2010. Separately, so did the US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the US justice department, suspecting violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In August 2014 Mossack Fonseca received a Tax Information Exchange Agreement (TIEA) notice from the US government inquiring into ownership of Pentler and two other BSGR companies administered by Mossack Fonseca's Geneva office. However, the president of Pentler's financial management firm, Menachem Eitan, was a fugitive from the US SEC facing charges over a $55 million Ponzi scheme.\n\nGuinea's Mines Minister Mohamed Lamine Fofana said in 2012 that BSGR \"didn't follow the law\".\n\nJean-Claude N'Da Ametchi, an advisor to former president Laurent Gbagbo, who refused to accept that he lost an election in 2010, is also mentioned in the leaked documents. The European Union sanctioned banker N'Da Ametchi in 2011 for helping to finance the Gbagbo regime. His offshore company, Cadley House Ltd, was registered in the Seychelles with bearer bonds and a bank account in Morocco. N'Da Ametchi sent email in 2011 to the Geneva office of Mossack Fonseca, naming the Geneva bank Pasche financial managers of the company. In September 2012 he acted as sole director to request they transfer its registration to Abidjan. Neither Mossack Fonseca nor the banks mentioned the European sanctions; these were eventually lifted in 2012. The company was apparently still active in 2015, according to documents seen by \"Le Monde\". He is currently an advisor to former prime minister Charles Konan Banny, who lost the October 2015 presidential election.\n\nFormer Deputy Chief Justice Kalpana Rawal was a director or shareholder in four holding companies and was active in two after she took office. Her husband owns another seven. The companies were used for real estate transactions in Britain. Rawal and her husband were shareholders and directors of Highworth Management Services, where Ajay Shah, a former director of Trust Bank, was also a shareholder and director. The Central Bank of Kenya ordered Shah's assets auctioned to repay depositors after Trust Bank collapsed, but he went into hiding and the assets have not been recovered.\n\nMounir Majidi, personal secretary of King Mohammed VI was designated in March 2006 as the representative of SMCD Limited created in 2005 through Geneva financial advisor Dextima Conseils. According to the ICIJ, through SMCD Majidi bought the \"Aquarius W\", a 1930s-era luxury sailboat, which was then registered in Morocco as \"El Boughaz\", belonging to the king.\nSMCD, according to the ICIJ, also made a loan to a Luxembourg company, Logimed Investissements Co SARL, for which details are not available. Following this loan, SMCD was liquidated in 2013.\n\nDiamond Ocean Enterprises, a Mossack Fonseca entity set up in 2005, reported its purpose as financial consulting to a Namibian diamond manufacturer and polisher. According to the law firm's records, Deutsche Investment Consultants (Asia) Limited, a Mossack Fonseca company set up in the British Virgin Islands for the now-imprisoned Mafioso Vito Palazzolo by Wolf-Peter Berthold, a German banker based in Hong Kong, is a director of the firm. Its shareholders include Peter von Palace Kolbatschenko, Palazzolo's son, Berthold, and Giovanni Agusta.\n\nAlso in 2005, Zacharias (Zacky) Nujoma, youngest son of Sam Nujoma, set up two holding companies, Avila Investments and Marbella Investments, and licensed them to buy and cut diamonds. Shortly afterwards 90% of the stock was transferred to Diamond Ocean. In 2006 Nujoma established Ancash Investments, which obtained seven exclusive uranium prospecting licenses. Palazzolo loaned the company US$10 million. Canadian mining company announced it would partner with Ancash in its uranium contracts and said it based its decision in part on Ancash's strong international support in Natural Earth International Ltd. of Hong Kong. Natural Earth is another Deutsche Investment company.\n\n\"Corrupt officials have stolen $150 billion from Nigeria in the last 10 years,\" said Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari said April 7, 2016. He added that he planned to ask United States President Barack Obama for help.\n\nPresident of the Nigerian Senate Bukola Saraki was found, through the Panama Papers leak, to have ties to at least four offshore companies he failed to declare to the Code of Conduct Bureau as Nigerian law requires. His wife Toyin also had shell companies listed in her name in the Mossack Fonseca documents: Girol Properties Ltd, Sandon Development Limited and *Landfield International Developments Ltd. Saraki has said that the assets in these holding companies belong to his wife's family and therefore he was not required to report them. ANCIR dismisses this because:\n\n\nHowever, leaked documents do link her to the firm. But a handwritten note suggests Mossack Fonseca was aware that she was a nominee director.\n\nAliko Dangote, chief executive of the Dangote Group, is tied in the leaked documents to four offshore companies, and to as many as 13 if his family and business associates are included. Dangote, with an estimated $17 billion worth, is currently involved in the construction of a $14 billion oil refinery in Lagos.\n\nFormer Delta State governor James Ibori is also mentioned in the leak. Ibori pleaded guilty in London in 2012 to siphoning $75 million out of Nigeria while he was in office from 1999–2007. All charges against him in Nigeria had been dropped in Nigeria following an election. Ibori was sentenced to 13 years. Mossack Fonseca, the registered agent for his four offshore entities, received a request in 2008 for information about his accounts from British Crown Prosecutors. His family's Julex Foundation was the shareholder in Stanhope Investments, a company incorporated in 2003 on the island of Niue, to which he funneled millions of dollars so he could buy a private jet. The United Kingdom returned £6.8 million to Nigeria from funds it had seized from accounts determined to have belonged to Ibori.\n\nThe anti-corruption taskforce of the Olusegun Obasanjo government, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, questioned at the time whether the Yar'Adua administration has refrained or was loath to pursue members of the Nigerian elite suspected of corruption, including leading financiers of the ruling party, or those like Ibori who supported had their election.\n\nFormer Senate President David Mark was also listed as owner of eight shell companies in the leaked Panama Papers: Sikera Overseas S.A., Colsan Enterprises Limited, Goldwin Transworld Limited, Hartland Estates Limited, Marlin Holdings Limited, Medley Holdings Limited, Quetta Properties Limited and Centenary Holdings Limited.\n\nA portion of the wealth owned by former Chairman of the United Bank for Africa (UBA), Hakeem Belo-Osagie, is domiciled in trusts and shell companies in some notorious tax havens around the world.\n\nThe government of Rwanda uses an offshore company to lease a private jet for its senior politicians. Leaked documents show that Brigadier-General Emmanuel Ndahiro, using a London address, become a director of a British Virgin Islands company, Debden Investments Ltd. in 1998, owner of a jet aircraft. Ndahiro, a close advisor of president Paul Kagame, was then spokesman for Kagame's military. According to the Panama Papers the owner of the company was Hatari Sekoko, who ran a number of real estate and hotel ventures such as the Marriott in Kigali.\n\nICIJ partner Ouestaf.com was able to establish through the Panama Papers the existence of secret contracts between and DP World FZE (DP)and Mamadou Pouye, the bribery codefendant of Karim Wade, son of former prime minister Abdoulaye Wade. This information was not available at their trial; Ouestaf confirmed their financial ties to the corporation for the first time during the Panama Papers investigation. Wade was sentenced in 2015 to a six-year prison term by the Cour de répression de l'enrichissement illicite (Crei), a specialized anti-corruption court. Wade was accused of illegally amassing assets of more than $240 million; and his childhood friend Pouye was sentenced to five years for allegedly helping him. Both denied wrongdoing and the United Nations and Amnesty International said their rights had been violated at trial. Ouestaf's investigation did not address the legality of their trial. It did conclude that they had succeeded in tracing a payment to Pouye's oversea shell company from a subsidiary of DP.\n\nWade remains a member of the Senegalese Democratic Party (PDS) and is still the PDS candidate for the 2017 presidential election.\n\nMossack Fonseca documents show that Pouye owned three offshore companies, Seabury Inc, Regory Invest and Latvae Inc.\n\n\nSeabury seems to have been set up solely for doing business with DP World. It was started in 2008, a year after Senegal signed a contract with DP World for rights to the container terminal at the Autonomous Port of Dakar. In April 2009 Wade became minister of international cooperation, of territorial development, air transport and infrastructure, which he remained until his father's defeat by Macky Sall in the 2012 election. Regory Invest acted as a Seabury subcontractor, receiving €65,000 euros a month, according to the documents.\n\nAccording to \"Ouestaf\" the documents make it clear that while Crei investigators were interested in the funds in Pouye's Monaco account, they did not know that their source was an offshore account he created himself. The two contracts prove that there was in fact a relationship between the defendants and DP World. Investigator Papa Alboury Ndao told the court in February that he had discovered two payments of $13 million each from a subsidiary of DP World FZE to a Singapore bank account belonging to Karim Wade. However the bank in Singapore refused to cooperate and Ndao was forced to drop that line of inquiry.\n\nMossack Fonseca opened several offshore companies for multinationals. For example: Anglogold, owner of Anglogold Investments Senegal Ltd et Anglogold Exploration Senegal Ltd (both based in the British Virgin Islands).\n\nSenegalese architect Pierre Atepa Goudiaby, a special advisor to former president Abdoulaye Wade, is also mentioned in the leaked documents. The Swiss law firm Fidinam SA had Mossack Fonseca open the offshore Atepa Engineering Corp en 2006, the same year Goudiaby opened his Paris office on the Champs-Elysées.\n\nThe ICIJ investigation traces out many levels of offshore holdings in multiple countries related to the business dealings of Beny Steinmetz, with many serious findings such as a request that Mossack Fonseca backdate the revocation of a power of attorney. Mossack Fonseca records show that Sierra Leone diamond exporter Octea, based in the British Virgin Islands with the Steinmetz family as its beneficiaries, is wholly owned by Guernsey-based BSGR Resources, linked to a bribery scandal in Guinea. Foundations in Switzerland and Liechtenstein, among them Nysco and Balda, own BSGR. In 2007, one of Nysco's bank accounts contained $27.7 million.\n\nSteinmetz, who has a personal fortune of $6 billion, supplies diamonds to Tiffany and DeBeers and is Sierra Leone's largest private investor. Yet, according to a detailed report in \"The Namibian\", his Octea subsidiary owes, among other debts, property taxes of $700,000 to the city of Koidu. These unpaid taxes are discounted, according to mayor Saa Emerson Lamina, because Octea promised a 5% profit−sharing agreement, and payment 1% of its annual profit to a community development fund, but it did not do this either.\n\nOctea's subsidiary, Koidu Holdings, obtained the mine for $28 million, which was supposed to be a deposit, in 2002. Fighting had stopped in Sierra Leone, and the mine had previously been held and worked by South African firm Branch Energy, in payment for the services of its parent company, Executive Outcomes, \"effectively...a military battalion for hire,\" against rebel fighters in the area. Steinmetz has since put $300 million into the project.\n\nAccording to reporting by the African Network of Centers for Investigative Reporting (ANCIR), the company produces 60–90% of Sierra Leone's diamond exports, and in some months between 2012 and 2015 exported more than US$330 million in rough diamonds. Octea owes US$150 million in unpaid loans. Although government records show taxes paid by other diamond companies, none are listed for Octea.\n\nThe National Mineral Agency (NMA) until 2005 valued diamonds for export using a price book based on 1996 figures. Companies also often seek to minimize the value of their diamond exports to reduce taxes and move profits abroad. Once transferred to a subsidiary elsewhere where their value is not taxed, the same diamonds are frequently worth more.\n\nDiamonds from Koidu average $330 a carat, roughly 50% more than De Beers's Jwaneng mine in Botswana, the world's biggest. Tiffany has first pick of some of the best stones mined at Koidu and the remainder are sold to other trade buyers, according to \"Bloomberg\".\n\nAccording to the World Bank, Sierra Leone for a long time based its growth forecasts on the success of two companies, one of which was Octea parent BSGR\n\nTwo men linked to Fidentia, a South African asset management company that looted 1.2 billion rand from pension funds meant to provide for 46,000 widows and orphans of mineworkers, had accounts with Mossack Fonseca, which was willing to help hide the money even after South Africa made their names public. The former chief executive of Fidentia, J. Arthur Brown, was sentenced in 2014 to concurrent 15-year sentences. The FBI arrested one man, Steven Goodwin, in Los Angeles in 2008. Sent back to South Africa, Goodwin was sentenced to 10 years in prison for fraud and money laundering. The other, Graham Maddock, was also later jailed in South Africa for fraud.\n\nKhulubuse Zuma, nephew of South African President Jacob Zuma, has links in the documents to an offshore company with oil interests in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. He has denied any wrongdoing. According to leaked documents President Zuma also has ties to an oil mining deal between a British Virgin Islands-based oil company, Caprikat Limited, and Joseph Kabila, President of the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and helped Caprikat obtain oil fields in the DRC then sent his nephew to the DRC to run the firm.\n\nFormer President Ahmed al-Mirghani surfaced as a client of Mossack Fonseca. Al-Mirghani, who was president from 1986 to 1989, created Orange Star Corporation in the British Virgin Islands through the Panama firm in 1995, when he was living in Egypt after the coup that ended his presidency. He was active in the Democratic Unionist Party there. Orange Star Corporation bought a long-term lease in a tony London neighborhood near Hyde Park for $600,000 the same year al-Mirghani created it, and at the time of his death held assets worth $2.72 million.\n\nThe trial court prosecutor in Tunis ordered a judicial inquiry into the Panama Papers and Tunisian political figures suspected of hiring the firm. A judge from a Tunisian court specializing in financial crimes was assigned to the case. The Tunisian Assembly of the Representatives of the People established a parliamentary commission of inquiry as well\n\nNewspaper \"Inkyfada\" had access to the documents and reported a dozen politicians, former government officials and lawyers had been implicated, as well as a leading media figure. Monday 4 April 2016 it reported that the former secretary-general of the Nidaa Tounes political party, Mohsen Marzouk, who was also the coordinator of the new political party, Machrouu Tounes, was on the point of creating his own account in December 2014, in the first presidential elections. Marzouk had written Mossack Fonseca about a company in the Virgin Islands, emphasizing a desire to hold funds and conduct business overseas. Marzouk denies this and has filed a defamation complaint.\n\n\"Inkyfada\" was forced to briefly shut down its website following the report due to a cyberattack that attempted to insert names of politicians who had not been mentioned in the leaked documents.\n\nMossack Fonseca documents provide new insight and confirmation for a previously-litigated tax case where an offshore company transferred its registration to avoid paying capital gains tax in Uganda. The documents show that Heritage Oil and Gas Limited (HOGL) knew in advance of a capital gains tax that Uganda planned to enact. HOGL was then operating in Uganda and planned to sell half its Ugandan assets. It \"urgently\" moved its registration from the Bahamas to Mauritius to avoid the tax. Mauritius has a double taxation agreement with Uganda, meaning that HOGL would pay tax in only one of the two countries. But Mauritius does not have a capital gains tax, so by moving there Heritage reduced its capital gains tax to zero. Emails clearly show that this was the reason for the transfer, although company attorneys deny it.\n\nIn 2010, HOGL sold its 50 percent stake in Ugandan oil fields to Tullow Uganda for US$1.5 billion. The Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) applied a US$404 million capital gains tax on the transaction and HOGL refused to pay. A four-year battle in various courts ensued. Ugandan officials, including President Yoweri Museveni and the then-URA Commissioner-General Allen Kagina demanded the payment from Tullow, threatening not to renew its exploration licenses, which were about to expire, unless it deducted the tax from its payment to Heritage and remitted it to the URA. Eventually Tullow made a down payment and deposited the rest in escrow, pending legal resolution of its appeal, which came in 2013. Tullow also successfully sued HOGL to recover taxes they had paid on its behalf.\n\nHeritage Gas and Oil is a subsidiary of Heritage Oil, founded by Conservative Party donor Tony Buckingham, who has given the party more than £100,000. As of December 31, 2008, he still owned 33.1% of Heritage Oil.\n\nUganda's ratio of tax to gross domestic product, at less than 14%, is one of the lowest in East Africa.\n\nAn arms dealer and a mining tycoon with close links to President Robert Mugabe operated offshore companies despite US and European sanctions against them until 2013, more than four years after the sanctions were announced, according to the leaked documents.\n\nAccording to the Panama Papers, Zimplats Holdings, a large platinum mining concern, set up a shell company to pay the salaries of its senior managers. Zimplats denies knowledge of the company, HR Consultancy. The company, which was still active in 2015, was unknown to the Reserve Bank of Zimbabwe, which may indicate externalization of funds and tax evasion if, as it appears, the salaries were for citizens of Zimbabwe performing work in Zimbabwe.\n\nOn April 22, 2016, Australia said it would create a public register showing the beneficial, or actual, owners of shell companies, as part of an effort to stamp out tax avoidance by multinational corporations.\n\nThe Australian Taxation Office has announced that it is investigating 800 individual Australian taxpayers on the Mossack Fonseca list of clients and that some of the cases may be referred to the country's Serious Financial Crime Task Force. Eighty names match to an organized crime intelligence database.\n\nLeaked documents examined by the ABC \"pierced the veil of anonymous shell companies\" and linked a Sydney businessman and a Brisbane geologist to mining deals in North Korea. \"Rather than applying sanctions, the Australian Government and the ASX seem to have allowed a coach and horses to be ridden through them by the people involved in forming this relationship, corporate relationship with one of the primary arms manufacturers in North Korea,\" said Thomas Clark of the University of Technology Sydney.\n\nDavid Sutton was director of AAT Corporation and EHG Corporation when they held mineral licenses in North Korea and did business with Korean Natural Resources Development and Investment Corporation, which is under United Nations sanctions, and North Korea's \"primary arms dealer and main exporter of goods and equipment related to ballistic missiles and conventional weapons, responsible for approximately half of the arms exported by North Korea.\" The geologist, Louis Schurmann, said British billionaire Kevin Leech was key to putting the deal together. Leaked documents also reveal the involvement of another Briton, Gibraltar-based John Lister. According to ABC, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade was aware of these mining deals, which had also been brought up in the Australian Senate, but nobody ever referred the matter to the Australian Federal Police.\n\nOn May 12, 2016, the names of former Prime Minister of Australia Malcolm Turnbull, and former Premier of New South Wales Neville Wran, were both found in the Panama Papers, due to the pair's former directorship of the Mossack Fonseca-incorporated company \"Star Technology Systems Limited\". Turnbull and Wran resigned from these positions in 1995, and the Prime Minister has denied any impropriety, stating \"had [Star Technology] made any profits—which it did not regrettably—it certainly would have paid tax in Australia.\"\n\nMedia initially reported that the Panama Papers lists 500 entities created under the jurisdiction of the Cook Islands, population 10,000, almost as many as Singapore, whose population is 5.7 million. After the Winebox affair, the Cook Islands gave New Zealand jurisdiction over tax matters.\n\nNew Zealand's Inland Revenue Department said that they were working to obtain details of people who have tax residence in the country who may have been involved in arrangements facilitated by Mossack Fonseca.\nGerard Ryle, director of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, told Radio New Zealand on April 8, 2016 that New Zealand is a well-known tax haven and a \"nice front for criminals\". New Zealand provides overseas investors with foreign trusts and look-through companies. New Zealand government policy is to not request disclosure of the identity of either the settlor or the beneficiaries of the trust, and thus the ownership remains secret, and as a consequence, thus hiding the assets from the trust-holder's home jurisdictions. These trusts are not taxed in New Zealand. These trusts can then be used to acquire and own New Zealand registered companies, which become a vehicle by which the trust owners can exercise day to day control over their assets. These New Zealand-registered companies can be designed not to make a profit using loans from tax havens and other profit shifting techniques: the result being tax free income with the general respectability that has typically been associated with companies registered in New Zealand.\n\nPrime Minister John Key responded May 7 to John Doe's remark that he had been \"curiously quiet\" about tax evasion in the Cook Islands by saying that the whistleblower was confused and probably European. While the Cook Islands use New Zealand currency, \"I have as much responsibility for tax in the Cook Islands as I do for taxing Russia.\" New Zealand does represent the Cook Islands on defence and foreign policy, but not taxation, he said.\n\nIn distancing New Zealand from the Cook Islands, Key ignored the close ties between the two countries and the crucial role New Zealand had in setting up the Cook Island taxation system.\n\nMossack Fonseca approached Niue in 1996 and offered to help set up a tax haven on the tiny South Sea island. The law firm drafted the necessary legislation, permitting offshore companies to operate in total secrecy. They took care of all the paperwork, the island got a modest fee for each filing, and it seemed like quite a deal, even if they were required by law now to provide all banking paperwork in Russian and Chinese as well as English.\n\nSoon the filings almost covered the island's year budget. The US government however made official noises in 2001 about laundering criminal proceeds and Chase Bank blacklisted the island and Bank of New York followed suit. This caused inconvenience to the population so they let their contract with Mossack Fonseca expire and many of the privacy-seekers on the banking world moved on. Some did stay however, apparently; the Panama Papers database lists nearly 10,000 companies and trusts set up on Niue, population 1200.\n\nMany recently created shell companies were set up in Samoa, perhaps after Niue revised its tax laws. The Panama Papers database lists more than 13,000 companies and trusts set up there. Samoa has a population of roughly 200,000.\n\nOn May 27, 2015, the US Department of Justice indicted a number of companies and individuals for conspiracy, corruption and racketeering in connection with bribes and kickbacks paid to obtain media and marketing rights for FIFA tournaments. Some immediately entered guilty pleas.\n\nAmong those indicted were Jeffrey Webb and Jack Warner, the current and former presidents of CONCACAF, the continental confederation under FIFA headquartered in the United States. They were charged with racketeering and bribery offenses. Others were US and South American sports marketing executives who paid and agreed to pay well over $150 million in bribes and kickbacks.\n\nOn December 12, 2014, José Hawilla, the owner and founder of the Traffic Group, the Brazilian sports marketing conglomerate, waived indictment and pleaded guilty to a four-count information charging him with racketeering conspiracy, wire fraud conspiracy, money laundering conspiracy and obstruction of justice. Hawilla also agreed to forfeit over $151 million, $25 million of which was paid at the time of his plea.\n\nTorneos & Traffic (T&T) is a subsidiary of Fox International Channels since 2005 (with investments since 2002) and is the same company involved in corrupt practices in the acquisition of rights to major South American soccer tournaments.'\n\nMany individuals mentioned in the Panama Papers are connected with the world governing body of association football, FIFA, including the former president of CONMEBOL Eugenio Figueredo; former President of UEFA Michel Platini; former secretary general of FIFA Jérôme Valcke; Argentine player for Barcelona Lionel Messi; and, from Italy, the head manager of Metro, Antonio Guglielmi.\n\nThe leak also revealed an extensive conflict of interest between a member of the FIFA Ethics Committee and former FIFA vice president Eugenio Figueredo. Swiss police searched the offices of UEFA, European football's governing body, after the naming of former secretary-general Gianni Infantino as president of FIFA. He had signed a television deal while he was at UEFA with a company called Cross Trading, which the FBI has since accused of bribery. The contract emerged among the leaked documents. Infantino has denied wrongdoing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31536987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31536987", "title": "Perceptual trap", "text": "Perceptual trap\n\nA perceptual trap is an ecological scenario in which environmental change, typically anthropogenic, leads an organism to avoid an otherwise high-quality habitat. The concept is related to that of an ecological trap, in which environmental change causes preference towards a low-quality habitat.\n\nIn a 2004 article discussing source-sink dynamics, James Battin did not distinguish between high-quality habitats that are preferred or avoided, labelling both \"sources.\" The latter scenario, in which a high-quality habitat is avoided, was first recognised as an important phenonmenon in 2007 by Gilroy and Sutherland, who described them as \"undervalued resources.\" The term \"perceptual trap\" was first proposed by Michael Patten and Jeffrey Kelly in a 2010 article. Hans Van Dyck argues that the term is misleading because perception is also a major component in other cases of trapping.\n\nAnimals use discrete environmental cues to select habitat. A perceptual trap occurs if change in an environmental cue leads an organism to avoid a high-quality habitat. It differs, therefore, from simple habitat avoidance, which may be a correct decision given the habitat's quality. The concept of a perceptual trap is related to that of an ecological trap, in which environmental change causes preference towards a low-quality habitat. There is expected to be strong natural selection against ecological traps, but not necessarily against perceptual traps, as Allee effects may restrict a population’s ability to establish itself.\n\nTo support the concept of a perceptual trap, Patten and Kelly cited a study of the lesser prairie chicken (\"Tympanuchus pallidicinctus\"). The species' natural environment, shinnery oak grassland, is often treated with the herbicide tebuthiuron to increase grass cover for cattle grazing. Herbicide treatment resulted in less shrub cover, a habitat cue that caused female lesser prairie-chickens to avoid the habitat in favour of untreated areas. However, females who nested in herbicide-treated areas achieved comparable nesting successes and clutch sizes to those in untreated areas. Patten and Kelly suggest that the adverse effects of tebuthiuron treatment on nesting success are countered by various effects, such as greater nest concealment through increased grass cover. Therefore, female birds are erroneously avoiding a high-quality habitat. Patten and Kelly also cited as a possible perceptual trap the cases of the spotted towhee (\"Pipilo maculatus\") and rufous-crowned sparrow (\"Aimophila ruficeps\"), which tend to avoid habitat fragments, even though birds nesting in habitat fragments achieve increased nesting success due to a reduction in snake predation.\n\n"}
{"id": "5113681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5113681", "title": "Personality development", "text": "Personality development\n\nPersonality development is the relatively enduring pattern of the thoughts, feelings, and behaviors that distinguish individuals from one another. The dominant view in the field of personality psychology today holds that personality emerges early and continues to change in meaningful ways throughout the lifespan. \n\nAdult personality traits are believed to have a basis in infant temperament, meaning that individual differences in disposition and behavior appear early in life, possibly even before language or conscious self-representation develop. The Five Factor Model of personality has been found to map onto dimensions of childhood temperament, suggesting that individual differences in levels of the “big five” personality traits (neuroticism, extraversion, openness to experience, agreeableness, and conscientiousness) are present from young ages.\n\nAn evolutionary perspective, based primarily on the evolutionary process of natural selection, has been proposed to explain variations in human personality and individuality. From this perspective, evolution introduced variations of the human mind and natural selection acted on these by choosing which were the most beneficial and which led to a greater fitness. Due to human complexity, many opposing personality traits proved to be beneficial in different ways.\n\nThe evolutionary perspective traces personality and individuality back to when the early humans were learning how to function in complex social groups. Many specialists from different fields have a general agreement that early humans saw themselves as a part of the group to which they belonged, rather than seeing themselves as individuals with independent personalities. In terms of personality at this time, the whole group was identical. A member of the group associated themselves as one with the tribe and therefore the responsibility rested in the group and not the individual. Kropotkin explained the importance of this by stating that because the primitive man identified his existence with the existence of his tribe it has allowed for mankind to reach the remarkable level present today. A small step of differentiation that later led to personality and individuality was the division of labor. This differentiation was necessary in order for the group to function in a much more efficient way. This differentiation became adaptive since it increased the groups functionality. These early humans then continued to develop personality and individuality, which stemmed from their group and the social interactions they encountered. Individual life, and thus individuality and personality essentially arose from collective life.\n\nClassic theories of personality, such as Freud’s tripartite theory, and post-Freudian theory, including developmental stage theories and type theories, have often held the perspective that most personality development occurs in childhood, and that personality is stable by the end of adolescence. As recently as the 1990s, modern personality theorists concurred with William James’ 1890 assertion that, by age 30, personality is “set like plaster”.\nCurrently, lifespan perspectives that integrate theory and empirical findings dominate the research literature. The lifespan perspective of personality is based on the \"plasticity principle\", that personality traits are open systems that can be influenced by the environment at any age. This interactional model of development emphasizes the relationships between an individual and her environment, and suggests that there is a dialectic between continuity and change throughout the lifespan.\nLarge-scale longitudinal studies have demonstrated that the most active period of personality development appears to be between the ages of 20-40. Personality grows increasingly consistent with age and plateaus sometime around age 50, but never reaches a period of total stability. Although change is less likely later in life, individuals retain the potential for change from infancy to old age.\n\nPersonality traits demonstrate moderate levels of continuity, smaller but still significant normative or mean-level changes, and individual differences in change, often late into the life course. This pattern is influenced by genetic, environmental, transactional, and stochastic factors.\n\nTwin and adoption studies have demonstrated that the heritability of personality traits ranges from .3-.6, with a mean of .5. Heritability of .5 means that 50% of variation in observable personality traits is attributable to genetic influences. But a given genotype will lead to a certain phenotype only under the right environmental circumstances. In other words, the heritability of a trait may change depending on an individual’s environment and/or life events. An example of the way environment can moderate the expression of a gene is the finding by Heath, Eaves, and Martin (1998) that marriage was a protective factor against depression in genetically identical twins, such that the heritability of depression was as low as 29% in a married twin and as high as 51% in an unmarried twin. Ultimately, emerging evidence suggests that genetic and environmental influences on personality differ depending on other circumstances in a person’s life.\n\nWith the effects of genetic similarity removed, children from the same family often appear no more alike than randomly selected strangers; yet identical twins raised apart are nearly as similar in personality as identical twins raised together. What these findings suggest is that shared family environment has virtually no effect on personality development, and that similarity between relatives is almost entirely due to shared genetics. Although the shared environment (including features like the personality, parenting styles, and beliefs of parents; socioeconomic status; neighborhood; nutrition; schools attended; number of books in the home; etc.) may have a lasting impact at the extremes of parenting practice, such as outright abuse, most personality researchers have concluded that the majority of “average expectable environments” do not have an effect on personality development.\n\nThe weakness of shared environmental effects in shaping personality came as a surprise to many psychologists, and spurred research into nonshared environment, or the environmental influences that make siblings different from one another instead of similar. Non shared environmental effects encompass the variability in behavioral outcomes that is not explained by genetic and family environmental influences. The non shared environment may include differential treatment by parents, individually distinct reactions to the shared family environment, peer influences, and experiences that occur outside the family, as well as test error in measurement. In adults, nonshared environment also encompasses the unique roles and environments experienced after leaving the family of origin. Further effects of environment in adulthood are demonstrated by findings that different work, marital, and family experiences are associated with personality change, and by the impact of major positive and negative life events on personality.\n\nVan Gestel and Van Broeckhoven (2003) write, “Almost by definition, complex traits originate from interplay between (multiple) genetic factors and environment.” Interactions between genetic predisposition and the environment are a major factor in personality development. The \"corresponsive principle of personality development\" states that “life experiences may accentuate and reinforce the personality characteristics that were partially responsible for the particular environmental elicitations in the first place”. This principle summarizes how gene-environment interactions (also called person-situation transactions) maintain and reinforce the continuity of personality throughout the lifespan. Three main types of gene-environment interactions are active (the process by which individuals with certain genotypes select and create environments that facilitate the expression of those genotypes), passive (the process by which genetic parents provide both the genes and the early environmental influences that contribute to the development of a characteristic in their children), and reactive (the process by which non-family individuals respond to the behavior produced by a genotype in characteristic ways).\n"}
{"id": "4216091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4216091", "title": "Rationalist Society of Australia", "text": "Rationalist Society of Australia\n\nThe Rationalist Society of Australia (RSA) promotes the interests of rationalists nationally in Australia. Originally formed as the Victorian Rationalist Association, the society originated in a meeting of freethinkers in the University of Melbourne in 1906. It is the operational arm of the rationalist movement in Australia.\n\nThe society created a rationalist library in 1909, and grew its collection though donations. The society ran the 1910 and 1913 Australian tours of rationalist thinker, Joseph McCabe. A number of trade unionists and social campaigners sought to advance political causes, including Robert Samuel Ross and Alfred Foster. John Samuel Langley became the secretary in 1919, and William Glanville Cook became the secretary in 1938.\n\nIts aims include:\n\n\nThe RSA publishes the \"Australian Rationalist\" journal. Issues are archived in the National Library of Australia, and previous issues of the journal can be found on their website. Victoria University maintains a Rationalist Collection from the society. Contributors have included Brian Fitzpatrick and Ian Robinson.\n\nThe Australian Bureau of Statistics in the national census categorises rationalists under \"No Religion\". In 2011 the national census found that 22.3% of Australians are irreligious, a category that includes rationalists as well as Humanists, agnostics and atheists.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949769", "title": "Repechage", "text": "Repechage\n\nRepechage (; , \"fishing out, rescuing\") is a practice in series competitions that allows participants who failed to meet qualifying standards by a small margin to continue to the next round, in a similar way as a wild card system works out.\n\nDifferent types of repechage can occur. As a basis for the examples below, assume that 64 competitors are divided into four pools of 16 competitors, labeled A, B, C, and D. The first three rounds of the primary championship bracket winnow the field down to eight competitors for the quarter-final.\n\nIn full repechage, a competitor who loses to the pool winner drops into the repechage bracket. The theory is that a worthy competitor who is paired with another worthy competitor should not be unduly penalized by luck of the draw, but have an opportunity to fight for at least third place. In our example, four competitors from each pool (the loser to the pool winner in the first, second, third and quarter-final rounds) drop into the repechage bracket. A larger pool results in a longer wait for first-round losers to determine if they will compete in repechage.\n\nQuarter-final repechage pulls losers from the quarter-final round only. The prior rounds are single-elimination. Losers in the quarter-final from two pools (e.g., A and B) are entered into one bracket of the repechage first round. Quarter-final losers from the other two pools are entered into the other bracket. Repechage losers are placed in seventh place. Winners of these matches play against semifinal losers of opposite bracket. Losers are placed in fifth place and winners are awarded with bronze medal each.\n\nIn double-elimination repechage, any loser in the championship bracket drops into the repechage bracket. Typically the losers from the championship bracket's first round compete against each other in the repechage first round for the right to compete in the repechage second round (against the championship bracket second round losers). In \"full\" double-elimination repechage, the eventual repechage bracket winner competes against the championship bracket winner to determine the winner of the overall competition, but the repechage bracket winner must win two matches to win the competition whereas the championship bracket winner needs only win one match. In a \"partial\" double-elimination repechage bracket, the bracket winner(or winners in dual third-place scenario) will take third place.\n\nDual third-place finishers can result with full, quarter-final, or double-elimination repechage. Losers from two championship bracket pools (e.g., A and B) are placed into one repechage bracket and losers from the other two pools are placed in the other repechage bracket. The winner from each pool's repechage bracket competes against the loser in the championship semi-final who comes from one of that repechage bracket's two pools. Or, in a \"cross-over\" arrangement, the semi-final loser comes from the other bracket's pools. Each winner of this repechage round takes third place. The losers of the prior two repechage rounds are often considered to take fifth and seventh places.\n\nA consolation bracket is when losers drop from the primary championship bracket and compete for third place or a lesser consolation prize. Hence, except in the case of full double-elimination repechage, a repechage bracket might be referred to as a consolation bracket.\n\nIn Major League Baseball a repechage bracket is formed by wild card teams in each League. Entry to the Postseason is determined by the Wild Card Game.\n\nAt many levels of amateur play in baseball and softball, including the National Collegiate Athletic Association, tournaments are established as a full double-elimination repechage.\n\nIn the current 64-team baseball and softball NCAA tournament formats, there are alternating four-team double-elimination repechage formats, and best two-of-three games series. The first and third rounds are full double-elimination repechages, while the second and fourth rounds are best two-of-three game series.\n\nThe Southeastern Conference baseball tournament has a flip-bracket format; the winner of the first championship bracket plays the winner of the second repechage bracket, and the winner of the second championship bracket plays the winner of the first repechage bracket. As usual, the repechage bracket winner must win two matches to advance to the championship game.\n\nSome competitions use a modified double elimination format called Olympic Crossing, in which the winning teams compete until two teams remain, while teams with one loss continue in an elimination format until two of them remain. Then, in the semifinals, each of the two remaining winning teams play a team from the losers bracket, and the winners of these matches compete in the final match, while the semifinal losers compete for third place.\n\nIn cycling, repechage heats are used in the Keirin and match sprints. These heats give a second chance for non-qualifiers in the preliminary heat(s) to advance to the next round of competition.\n\nAlthough not normally used for FIE events, sometime local events use direct elimination with repechage. A disadvantage is that some competitors have to wait. An advantage for team events is more willingness to use DE from the start (with seeding by drawing lots) instead of pools. Example format sheets are here.\n\nRepechage was formerly widely used in fencing tournaments, but the majority have now abandoned it, an exception being United States Fencing Association Division I tournaments.\n\nIn karate, judo, taekwondo, and wrestling tournaments, single-elimination brackets are used to determine the two athletes who will compete in the final for first and second place. The repechage bracket is built from athletes who were knocked out by the finalists and building brackets to determine third place.\n\nRepechage addresses the possibility of two top competitors meeting in an early round, allowing the loser a chance to compete for a bronze medal.\n\nIn \"University Challenge\", 28 teams compete in each season. Of the fourteen teams who lose in the first round, the four teams with the highest scores compete in the Highest Scoring Losers Play-Offs, with the two winners advancing to the second round.\n\nIn rowing, often only the first one or two boats in a race will qualify automatically for the next round, and the other boats race again in one or more repechage to qualify. Conditions such as wind vary between the heats, often significantly affecting a competitor's time, and the repechage system allows the \"fastest losers\" to qualify irrespective of the variable conditions in the opening heats.\n\nIn rugby, the qualification processes for the Rugby Union World Cup and the Rugby League World Cup use a repechage system. The Air New Zealand Cup, New Zealand's domestic professional competition in Union, used the repechage in the 2006 Air New Zealand Cup, but scrapped it for the 2007 Air New Zealand Cup.\n\nA repechage stage in sailing is sometimes used in match-racing competition to allow teams finishing the round robin(s) just below the top-level teams a chance to advance to the quarter-final stage. This is standard competition for the Olympic-class events, such as the ISAF Sailing World Cup.\n\nIn field athletics, automatic qualification for the next round depends on meeting or surpassing a specified minimum result. The remaining qualification spots (if any) are given in order to the best results.\n\nIn track athletics, automatic qualification for the next round is given to the best competitors in each heat. Other competitors with the best times may qualify for the next round indirectly as \"fastest losers\" as a result of the repechage. If a particular heat was significantly faster than the others, repechage spots can be all taken by athletes from that heat.\n\nAlternatives to repechage include single elimination, round robin, wild card and the Swiss system.\n"}
{"id": "2063383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063383", "title": "Right to Buy", "text": "Right to Buy\n\nThe Right to Buy scheme is a policy in the United Kingdom (with the exception of Scotland since August 1, 2016) which gives secure tenants of councils and some housing associations the legal right to buy, at a large discount, the council house they are living in. There is also a Right to Acquire for assured tenants of housing association homes built with public subsidy after 1997, at a smaller discount. About 1,500,000 homes in the UK have been sold in this manner since the introduction of the scheme in 1980.\n\nSupporters claim that the programme has given millions of households a tangible asset, secured their families' finances and—by releasing cash to repay local authority debt—helped improve the public finances. Critics claim that the policy compounded a housing shortage for people of low income, initiated a national house price bubble, and led ultimately to what is commonly recognised as the displacement and social cleansing of traditional communities.\n\nIndividual local authorities have always had the ability to sell council houses to their tenants, but until the early 1970s such sales were extremely rare.\n\nThe Labour Party initially proposed the idea of the right of tenants to own the house they live in, in their manifesto for the 1959 general election which they subsequently lost. Later, the Conservative-controlled Greater London Council (GLC) of the late 1960s was persuaded by Horace Cutler, its Chairman of Housing, to create a general sales scheme. Cutler disagreed with the concept of local authorities as providers of housing, and supported a free-market approach. GLC housing sales were not allowed during the Labour administration of the mid-1970s, but picked up again once Cutler became Leader in 1977. They proved extremely popular. Cutler was close to Margaret Thatcher (MP for Finchley) who made the right to buy council housing a Conservative Party policy nationally. The policy was largely in place for the 1974 Conservative manifesto, but did not prove an asset in the two general elections that year because of high interest and mortgage repayment rates, as well as the growth of negative equity as house prices fell.\n\nIn the meantime, council house sales to tenants began to increase. Some 7,000 were sold to their tenants during 1970; this soared to more than 45,000 in 1972.\n\nAfter Margaret Thatcher became Prime Minister in May 1979, the legislation to implement the Right to Buy was passed in the Housing Act 1980. Michael Heseltine, in his role as Secretary of State for the Environment, was in charge of implementing the legislation. Some 6,000,000 people were affected; about one in three actually purchased their housing unit. Heseltine noted that \"no single piece of legislation has enabled the transfer of so much capital wealth from the state to the people\". He said the right to buy had two main objectives: to give people what they wanted, and to reverse the trend of ever-increasing dominance of the state over the life of the individual.\n\nHe said: \"There is in this country a deeply ingrained desire for home ownership. The Government believe that this spirit should be fostered. It reflects the wishes of the people, ensures the wide spread of wealth through society, encourages a personal desire to improve and modernise one's own home, enables parents to accrue wealth for their children and stimulates the attitudes of independence and self-reliance that are the bedrock of a free society.\"\n\nThe sale price of a council house was based on its market valuation but also included a discount of between 33% and 50% (up to 70% for council flats), to reflect the rents paid by tenants and also to encourage take-up. According to a government survey in 1988, the average discount that had been offered was 44%. Mortgages involved no downpayments. The legislation gave council tenants the right to buy their council house at a discounted value, depending on how long they had been living in the house, with the proviso that if they sold their house before a minimum period had expired they would have to pay back a proportion of the discount. The sales were an attractive deal for tenants; hundreds of thousands of homes were sold. The policy became one of the major points of Thatcherism.\n\nThe policy proved immediately popular. Some local Labour-controlled councils were opposed, but the legislation prevented them from blocking purchases, and gave them half the proceeds. Sales were much higher in the south and east of England than in inner London and northern England. Sales were restricted to general-needs housing; adapted properties and those built specifically for older people were exempted from the scheme. \n\nHalf the proceeds of the sales were paid to the local authorities, but the government restricted authorities' use of most of the money to reducing their debt until it was cleared, rather than spending it on building more homes. The effect was to reduce the council housing stock, especially in areas where property prices were high, such as London and the south-east of England.\n\n200,000 council houses were sold to their tenants in 1982. By 1987, more than 1,000,000 council houses in the UK had been sold to their tenants, although the number of council houses purchased by tenants declined during the 1990s.\n\nThe Labour Party was initially against the sales, and pledged to oppose them at the 1983 general election, but then dropped its official opposition to the scheme in 1985. However, at the 1987 general election, the Conservative government warned voters that a Labour government would still abolish the scheme.\n\nWhen Labour returned to power at the 1997 general election, it reduced the discount available to tenants in local authorities which had severe pressure on their housing stock; this included almost the whole of London.\n\nThe Right to Buy rules were changed in 2005. Five years' tenancy was now required for new tenants to qualify, and properties purchased after January 2005 could no longer immediately be placed on the open market should the owner decide to sell. Such owners now had to approach their previous landlord (council or housing association) and offer them \"first right of refusal\". If the previous landlord was no longer in existence, for example in cases where the former landlord was a registered social landlord that has ceased business, then the property had to first be offered to the local housing authority.\n\nThe time in which a Right to Buy conveyance should take place was reduced from 12 months to 3 months. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) now governed and regulated most types of mortgage-selling.\n\nThe FCA's governance of Right to Buy purchases was partly to solve the widespread problem of Right to Buy mis-selling from brokers and solicitors alike. Each had their own agenda and many were charging excessive fees which were then taken out of their client's discount. The above actions that have been taken coupled with the end of the boom period seem to have brought this problem under control.\n\nIn 2009, the Localis think tank suggested, as part of a review of principles for social housing reform, that the right to buy should be extended into equity slivers, which could be part-earned through being a good tenant.\n\nThe qualifying period changed from 5 years to 3 years (edited rbcdd3117 in 2018)\n\nAt the 2011 Conservative Party Conference, David Cameron proposed to increase Right to Buy discounts in order to revitalise the housing market and generate receipts which could be spent on new housing. Social housing professionals expressed concerns over the proposal.\n\nAs of 2 April 2012, the Right to Buy discount was increased to a maximum of £75,000 or 60% of the house value (70% for a flat) depending on which is lower. In March 2013, the maximum discount in London was increased to £100,000.\n\nThe maximum amount of discount changes annually wef April 2017 it changed to £78,600.00 (edited 2018 rbc dd3117)\n\nThe maximum right to buy discount increases each financial year in line with CPI as at the previous September (see separate document from the Right to Buy Team, Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.\n\nAs the CPI in September 2017 was 3% the new maximum discounts for Redditch in respect of the financial year 2018/19 will be £80,900 and applies to all applications made by the tenant on or after 6 April 2018. Any applications made before then are processed using the current discounts (£78,600). In summary discount is a maximum of £80,900.00 from April 2018 (rbcdd3117)\n\nThe aim of the scheme is, for every additional home sold, a new home will be built for 'affordable rent' at up to 80% of market rent, aimed at maintaining the level of affordable housing while also increasing the number of properties available for those on the waiting list. The five year tenancy criterion will remain, and should the property be sold within the first five years of the original sale, part or all of the discount will be required to be paid back.\n\nThe Housing and Planning Bill 2016 will if enacted extend right-to-buy to housing association tenants.\n\nIn July 2013, the Scottish Government confirmed that Right to Buy would be abolished in Scotland from 2017. It was in the end abolished as a part of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2014 from 1 August 2016.\n\nIn the summer of 2017, the Welsh Government proposed a law to abolish Right to Buy in Wales. This law was passed by the Welsh Assembly in December 2017, and the scheme will effectively end on 26 January 2019.\n\nThe Right to Buy scheme has been criticised for the following reasons:\n\nA report published in January 2013 by London Assembly member Tom Copley, From Right to Buy to Buy to Let, showed that 36% of homes sold under Right to Buy in London (52,000 homes) were being rented by councils from private landlords, leading to criticisms that the scheme \"represents incredibly poor value for money to taxpayers\" since it \"helped to fuel the increase in the housing benefit bill, heaped more pressure on local authority waiting lists and led to more Londoners being forced into the under-regulated private rented sector\".\nA survey in 2013 showed around one third of Right to Buy houses were now owned by private landlords, while the son of the late Ian Gow (Thatcher's sometime housing minister) owned some 40 houses.\n\nAs of recent changes in 2015, Alan Murie concluded that \"the proposed extension of right-to-buy could not easily be reconciled with the independence and charitable status of housing associations\", and that \"extending the right-to-buy to housing association tenants revived a previous Parliamentary debate and raised questions about the legal position of charities and the risks faced by housing associations and their funders\".\n\nA 2017 BBC survey of council areas where waiting lists were rising showed the councils had bought back houses they had been forced to sell, sometimes at many times the original price. Housing charities criticised the lack of investment in affordable housing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30656844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30656844", "title": "Sanankuya", "text": "Sanankuya\n\nSanankuya (also sanankou(n)ya, sinankun, senenkun, senankuya) refers to a social characteristic present especially among the Mande peoples of Mali, Guinea and Gambia as well as many West African societies in general, often described in English with terms such as \"cousinage\" or \"joking relationship\".\n\nIn addition to \"sanankuya\" relationships that are pre-established between certain ethnic or professional clans, a \"sanankuya\" relationship can also be established between any two willing participants who have \"broken the ice\". Those in a \"sanankuya\" relationship may treat one another as if cousins or close family members with whom familiar jokes or humorous insults are exchanged. It is considered an essential element of Mande/West African society/and was reputedly ordained as a civic duty in the \"Kurukan Fuga\", the oral Constitution of the Mali Empire, by Sundiata Keita in c. 1236. \n\nThe effects of the complex and longstanding custom on West African society may also be seen surviving in African-American culture in such cultural institutions as \"the Dozens\", as well as the custom of non-blood relatives according each other the status of familial relationships (\"play\" aunts, cousins, etc.).\n\nFor an example, the Traoré and Koné clans each maintain a \"sanankuya\" relationship with the others' members, and one of the biggest running jokes is that each clan will accuse the other of loving to eat beans the most.\n\n"}
{"id": "27799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27799", "title": "Semigroup", "text": "Semigroup\n\nIn mathematics, a semigroup is an algebraic structure consisting of a set together with an associative binary operation.\n\nThe binary operation of a semigroup is most often denoted multiplicatively: \"x\"·\"y\", or simply \"xy\", denotes the result of applying the semigroup operation to the ordered pair . Associativity is formally expressed as that for all \"x\", \"y\" and \"z\" in the semigroup.\n\nThe name \"semigroup\" originates in the fact that a semigroup generalizes a group by preserving only associativity and closure under the binary operation from the axioms defining a group while omitting the requirement for an identity element and inverses. From the opposite point of view (of adding rather than removing axioms), a semigroup is an associative magma. As in the case of groups or magmas, the semigroup operation need not be commutative, so \"x\"·\"y\" is not necessarily equal to \"y\"·\"x\"; a typical example of associative but non-commutative operation is matrix multiplication. If the semigroup operation is commutative, then the semigroup is called a \"commutative semigroup\" or (less often than in the analogous case of groups) it may be called an \"abelian semigroup\".\n\nA monoid is an algebraic structure intermediate between groups and semigroups, and is a semigroup having an identity element, thus obeying all but one of the axioms of a group; existence of inverses is not required of a monoid. A natural example is strings with concatenation as the binary operation, and the empty string as the identity element. Restricting to non-empty strings gives an example of a semigroup that is not a monoid. Positive integers with addition form a commutative semigroup that is not a monoid, whereas the non-negative integers do form a monoid. A semigroup without an identity element can be easily turned into a monoid by just adding an identity element. Consequently, monoids are studied in the theory of semigroups rather than in group theory. Semigroups should not be confused with quasigroups, which are a generalization of groups in a different direction; the operation in a quasigroup need not be associative but quasigroups preserve from groups a notion of division. Division in semigroups (or in monoids) is not possible in general.\n\nThe formal study of semigroups began in the early 20th century. Early results include a Cayley theorem for semigroups realizing any semigroup as transformation semigroup, in which arbitrary functions replace the role of bijections from group theory. Other fundamental techniques of studying semigroups like Green's relations do not imitate anything in group theory though. A deep result in the classification of finite semigroups is Krohn–Rhodes theory. The theory of finite semigroups has been of particular importance in theoretical computer science since the 1950s because of the natural link between finite semigroups and finite automata via the syntactic monoid. In probability theory, semigroups are associated with Markov processes. In other areas of applied mathematics, semigroups are fundamental models for linear time-invariant systems. In partial differential equations, a semigroup is associated to any equation whose spatial evolution is independent of time. There are numerous special classes of semigroups, semigroups with additional properties, which appear in particular applications. Some of these classes are even closer to groups by exhibiting some additional but not all properties of a group. Of these we mention: regular semigroups, orthodox semigroups, semigroups with involution, inverse semigroups and cancellative semigroups. There also interesting classes of semigroups that do not contain any groups except the trivial group; examples of the latter kind are bands and their commutative subclass—semilattices, which are also s.\n\nA semigroup is a set formula_1 together with a binary operation \"formula_2\" (that is, a function formula_3) that satisfies the associative property:\n\nMore succinctly, a semigroup is an associative magma.\n\n\nA left identity of a semigroup formula_1 (or more generally, magma) is an element formula_7 such that for all formula_8 in formula_1, formula_10. Similarly, a right identity is an element formula_11 such that for all formula_8 in formula_1, formula_14. Left and right identities are both called one-sided identities. A semigroup may have one or more left identities but no right identity, and vice versa.\n\nA two-sided identity (or just identity) is an element that is both a left and right identity. Semigroups with a two-sided identity are called monoids. A semigroup may have at most one two-sided identity. If a semigroup has a two-sided identity, then the two-sided identity is the only one-sided identity in the semigroup. If a semigroup has both a left identity and a right identity, then it has a two-sided identity (which is therefore the unique one-sided identity).\n\nA semigroup formula_1 without identity may be embedded in a monoid formed by adjoining an element formula_16 to formula_1 and defining formula_18 for all formula_19. The notation formula_20 denotes a monoid obtained from formula_1 by adjoining an identity \"if necessary\" (formula_22 for a monoid).\n\nSimilarly, every magma has at most one absorbing element, which in semigroup theory is called a zero. Analogous to the above construction, for every semigroup formula_1, one can define formula_24, a semigroup with 0 that embeds formula_1.\n\nThe semigroup operation induces an operation on the collection of its subsets: given subsets \"A\" and \"B\" of a semigroup \"S\", their product , written commonly as \"AB\", is the set (This notion is defined identically as it is for groups.) In terms of this operation, a subset \"A\" is called\n\nIf \"A\" is both a left ideal and a right ideal then it is called an ideal (or a two-sided ideal).\n\nIf \"S\" is a semigroup, then the intersection of any collection of subsemigroups of \"S\" is also a subsemigroup of \"S\".\nSo the subsemigroups of \"S\" form a complete lattice.\n\nAn example of semigroup with no minimal ideal is the set of positive integers under addition. The minimal ideal of a commutative semigroup, when it exists, is a group.\n\nGreen's relations, a set of five equivalence relations that characterise the elements in terms of the principal ideals they generate, are important tools for analysing the ideals of a semigroup and related notions of structure.\n\nThe subset with the property that its every element commutes with any other element of the semigroup is called the center of the semigroup. The center of a semigroup is actually a subsemigroup.\n\nA semigroup homomorphism is a function that preserves semigroup structure. A function between two semigroups is a homomorphism if the equation\nholds for all elements \"a\", \"b\" in \"S\", i.e. the result is the same when performing the semigroup operation after or before applying the map \"f\".\n\nA semigroup homomorphism between monoids preserves identity if it is a monoid homomorphism. But there are semigroup homomorphisms which are not monoid homomorphisms, e.g. the canonical embedding of a semigroup formula_1 without identity into formula_20. Conditions characterizing monoid homomorphisms are discussed further. Let formula_28 be a semigroup homomorphism. The image of formula_11 is also a semigroup. If formula_30 is a monoid with an identity element formula_31, then formula_32 is the identity element in the image of formula_11. If formula_34 is also a monoid with an identity element formula_35 and formula_35 belongs to the image of formula_11, then formula_38, i.e. formula_11 is a monoid homomorphism. Particularly, if formula_11 is surjective, then it is a monoid homomorphism.\n\nTwo semigroups \"S\" and \"T\" are said to be isomorphic if there is a bijection with the property that, for any elements \"a\", \"b\" in \"S\", . Isomorphic semigroups have the same structure.\n\nA semigroup congruence formula_41 is an equivalence relation that is compatible with the semigroup operation. That is, a subset formula_42 that is an equivalence relation and formula_43 and formula_44 implies formula_45 for every formula_46 in \"S\". Like any equivalence relation, a semigroup congruence formula_41 induces congruence classes\n\nand the semigroup operation induces a binary operation formula_49 on the congruence classes:\n\nBecause formula_41 is a congruence, the set of all congruence classes of formula_41 forms a semigroup with formula_49, called the quotient semigroup or factor semigroup, and denoted formula_54. The mapping formula_55 is a semigroup homomorphism, called the quotient map, canonical surjection or projection; if S is a monoid then quotient semigroup is a monoid with identity formula_56. Conversely, the kernel of any semigroup homomorphism is a semigroup congruence. These results are nothing more than a particularization of the first isomorphism theorem in universal algebra. Congruence classes and factor monoids are the objects of study in string rewriting systems.\n\nA nuclear congruence on \"S\" is one which is the kernel of an endomorphism of \"S\".\n\nA semigroup \"S\" satisfies the maximal condition on congruences if any family of congruences on \"S\", ordered by inclusion, has a maximal element. By Zorn's lemma, this is equivalent to saying that the ascending chain condition holds: there is no infinite strictly ascending chain of congruences on \"S\".\n\nEvery ideal \"I\" of a semigroup induces a subsemigroup, the Rees factor semigroup via the congruence   ⇔   either or both \"x\" and \"y\" are in \"I\".\n\nThe following notions introduce the idea that a semigroup is contained in another one.\n\nA semigroup T is a quotient of a semigroup S if there is a surjective semigroup morphism from T to S. For example, formula_57 is a quotient of formula_58, using the morphism consisting of taking the remainder modulo p of an integer.\n\nA semigroup T divides a semigroup S, noted formula_59 if T is a quotient of a subsemigroup S. In particular, subsemigroups of S divides T, while it is not necessarily the case that there are a quotient of S.\n\nBoth of those relation are transitive.\n\nFor any subset \"A\" of \"S\" there is a smallest subsemigroup \"T\" of \"S\" which contains \"A\", and we say that \"A\" generates \"T\". A single element \"x\" of \"S\" generates the subsemigroup \nIf this is finite, then \"x\" is said to be of finite order, otherwise it is of infinite order.\nA semigroup is said to be periodic if all of its elements are of finite order.\nA semigroup generated by a single element is said to be monogenic (or cyclic). If a monogenic semigroup is infinite then it is isomorphic to the semigroup of positive integers with the operation of addition.\nIf it is finite and nonempty, then it must contain at least one idempotent.\nIt follows that every nonempty periodic semigroup has at least one idempotent.\n\nA subsemigroup which is also a group is called a subgroup. There is a close relationship between the subgroups of a semigroup and its idempotents. Each subgroup contains exactly one idempotent, namely the identity element of the subgroup. For each idempotent \"e\" of the semigroup there is a unique maximal subgroup containing \"e\". Each maximal subgroup arises in this way, so there is a one-to-one correspondence between idempotents and maximal subgroups. Here the term \"maximal subgroup\" differs from its standard use in group theory.\n\nMore can often be said when the order is finite. For example, every nonempty finite semigroup is periodic, and has a minimal ideal and at least one idempotent. The number of finite semigroups of a given size (greater than 1) is (obviously) larger than the number of groups of the same size. For example, of the sixteen possible \"multiplication tables\" for a set of two elements eight form semigroups whereas only four of these are monoids and only two form groups. For more on the structure of finite semigroups, see Krohn–Rhodes theory.\n\n\nThere is a structure theorem for commutative semigroups in terms of semilattices. A semilattice (or more precisely a meet-semilattice) formula_60 is a partially ordered set where every pair of elements formula_61 has a greatest lower bound, denoted formula_62. The operation formula_63 makes formula_64 into a semigroup satisfying the additional idempotence law formula_65.\n\nGiven a homomorphism formula_66 from an arbitrary semigroup to a semilattice, each inverse image formula_67 is a (possibly empty) semigroup. Moreover, formula_68 becomes graded by formula_64, in the sense that\n\nformula_70\n\nIf formula_71 is onto, the semilattice formula_64 is isomorphic to the quotient of formula_1 by the equivalence relation formula_74 such that formula_75 iff formula_76. This equivalence relation is a semigroup congruence, as defined above.\n\nWhenever we take the quotient of a commutative semigroup by a congruence, we get another commutative semigroup. The structure theorem says that for any commutative semigroup formula_1, there is a finest congruence formula_74 such that the quotient of formula_68 by this equivalence relation is a semilattice. Denoting this semilattice by formula_80, we get a homomorphism formula_71 from formula_1 onto formula_80. As mentioned, formula_68 becomes graded by this semilattice.\n\nFurthermore, the components formula_85 are all Archimedean semigroups. An Archimedean semigroup is one where given any pair of elements formula_86, there exists an element formula_87 and formula_88 such that formula_89.\n\nThe Archimedean property follows immediately from the ordering in the semilattice formula_64, since with this ordering we have formula_91 if and only if formula_89 for some formula_87 and formula_88.\n\nThe group of fractions or group completion of a semigroup \"S\" is the group generated by the elements of \"S\" as generators and all equations which hold true in \"S\" as relations. There is an obvious semigroup homomorphism which sends each element of \"S\" to the corresponding generator. This has a universal property for morphisms from \"S\" to a group: given any group \"H\" and any semigroup homomorphism , there exists a unique group homomorphism with \"k\"=\"fj\". We may think of \"G\" as the \"most general\" group that contains a homomorphic image of \"S\".\n\nAn important question is to characterize those semigroups for which this map is an embedding. This need not always be the case: for example, take \"S\" to be the semigroup of subsets of some set \"X\" with set-theoretic intersection as the binary operation (this is an example of a semilattice). Since holds for all elements of \"S\", this must be true for all generators of \"G\"(\"S\") as well: which is therefore the trivial group. It is clearly necessary for embeddability that \"S\" have the cancellation property. When \"S\" is commutative this condition is also sufficient and the Grothendieck group of the semigroup provides a construction of the group of fractions. The problem for non-commutative semigroups can be traced to the first substantial paper on semigroups. Anatoly Maltsev gave necessary and sufficient conditions for embeddability in 1937.\n\nSemigroup theory can be used to study some problems in the field of partial differential equations. Roughly speaking, the semigroup approach is to regard a time-dependent partial differential equation as an ordinary differential equation on a function space. For example, consider the following initial/boundary value problem for the heat equation on the spatial interval and times :\n\nLet be the \"L\" space of square-integrable real-valued functions with domain the interval and let \"A\" be the second-derivative operator with domain\n\nwhere \"H\" is a Sobolev space. Then the above initial/boundary value problem can be interpreted as an initial value problem for an ordinary differential equation on the space \"X\":\n\nOn an heuristic level, the solution to this problem \"ought\" to be . However, for a rigorous treatment, a meaning must be given to the exponential of \"tA\". As a function of \"t\", exp(\"tA\") is a semigroup of operators from \"X\" to itself, taking the initial state \"u\" at time to the state at time \"t\". The operator \"A\" is said to be the infinitesimal generator of the semigroup.\n\nThe study of semigroups trailed behind that of other algebraic structures with more complex axioms such as groups or rings. A number of sources attribute the first use of the term (in French) to J.-A. de Séguier in \"Élements de la Théorie des Groupes Abstraits\" (Elements of the Theory of Abstract Groups) in 1904. The term is used in English in 1908 in Harold Hinton's \"Theory of Groups of Finite Order\".\n\nAnton Suschkewitsch obtained the first non-trivial results about semigroups. His 1928 paper \"Über die endlichen Gruppen ohne das Gesetz der eindeutigen Umkehrbarkeit\" (\"On finite groups without the rule of unique invertibility\") determined the structure of finite simple semigroups and showed that the minimal ideal (or Green's relations J-class) of a finite semigroup is simple. From that point on, the foundations of semigroup theory were further laid by David Rees, James Alexander Green, Evgenii Sergeevich Lyapin, Alfred H. Clifford and Gordon Preston. The latter two published a two-volume monograph on semigroup theory in 1961 and 1967 respectively. In 1970, a new periodical called \"Semigroup Forum\" (currently edited by Springer Verlag) became one of the few mathematical journals devoted entirely to semigroup theory.\n\nIn recent years researchers in the field have become more specialized with dedicated monographs appearing on important classes of semigroups, like inverse semigroups, as well as monographs focusing on applications in algebraic automata theory, particularly for finite automata, and also in functional analysis.\n\nIf the associativity axiom of a semigroup is dropped, the result is a magma, which is nothing more than a set \"M\" equipped with a binary operation .\n\nGeneralizing in a different direction, an n\"-ary semigroup (also n\"-semigroup, polyadic semigroup or multiary semigroup) is a generalization of a semigroup to a set \"G\" with a \"n\"-ary operation instead of a binary operation. The associative law is generalized as follows: ternary associativity is , i.e. the string \"abcde\" with any three adjacent elements bracketed. \"N\"-ary associativity is a string of length with any \"n\" adjacent elements bracketed. A 2-ary semigroup is just a semigroup. Further axioms lead to an \"n\"-ary group.\n\nA third generalization is the semigroupoid, in which the requirement that the binary relation be total is lifted. As categories generalize monoids in the same way, a semigroupoid behaves much like a category but lacks identities.\n\nInfinitary generalizations of commutative semigroups have sometimes been considered by various authors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14934030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14934030", "title": "Spite (sentiment)", "text": "Spite (sentiment)\n\nTo spite is to intentionally annoy, hurt, or upset. \"Spiteful\" words or actions are delivered in such a way that it is clear that the person is delivering them just to annoy, hurt, or upset. When the intent to annoy, hurt, or upset is shown subtly, behavior is considered \"catty\".\n\nThe Underground Man, in Fyodor Dostoevsky's novella \"Notes from Underground\", is an example of spite. His motivation remains constantly spiteful, undercutting his own existence and ability to live.\n\nIn his 1929 examination of emotional disturbances, \"Psychology and Morals: An Analysis of Character\", J. A. Hadfield uses deliberately spiteful acts to illustrate the difference between disposition and sentiment.\n"}
{"id": "83491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83491", "title": "Story within a story", "text": "Story within a story\n\nA story within a story is a literary device in which one character within a narrative narrates. \"Mise en abyme\" is the French term for a similar literary device (also referring to the practice in heraldry of placing the image of a small shield on a larger shield). A story within a story can be used in all types of narration: novels, short stories, plays, television programs, films, poems, songs, and philosophical essays. The inner stories are told either simply to entertain or more usually to act as an example to the other characters. In either case the story often has symbolic and psychological significance for the characters in the outer story. There is often some parallel between the two stories, and the fiction of the inner story is used to reveal the truth in the outer story. Often the stories within a story are used to satirize views, not only in the outer story, but also in the real world. When a story is told within another instead of being told as part of the plot, it allows the author to play on the reader's perceptions of the characters—the motives and the reliability of the storyteller are automatically in question. Stories within a story may disclose the background of characters or events, tell of myths and legends that influence the plot, or even seem to be extraneous diversions from the plot. In some cases, the story within a story is involved in the action of the plot of the outer story. In others, the inner story is independent, so that it can either be skipped over or be read separately, although many subtle connections may be lost. Sometimes, the inner story serves as an outlet for discarded ideas that the author deemed to be of too much merit to leave out completely, something that is somewhat analogous to the inclusion of deleted scenes with DVD releases of films. Often, there is more than one level of internal stories, leading to deeply-nested fiction.\n\nThe literary device of stories within a story dates back to a device known as a \"frame story\", where a supplemental story is used to help tell the main story. Typically, the outer story, or \"frame\" does not have much matter, and most of the bulk of the work consists of one or more complete stories told by one or more storytellers.\n\nThe earliest examples of \"frame stories\" and \"stories within stories\" were in ancient Egyptian and Indian literature, such as the Egyptian Tale of the Shipwrecked Sailor and Indian epics like the \"Ramayana\", \"Seven Wise Masters\", \"Hitopadesha\" and \"Vikram and the Vampire\". In Vishnu Sarma's \"Panchatantra\", an inter-woven series of colorful animal tales are told with one narrative opening within another, sometimes three or four layers deep, and then unexpectedly snapping shut in irregular rhythms to sustain attention. In the epic \"Mahabharata\", the Kurukshetra War is narrated by a character in Vyasa's \"Jaya\", which itself is narrated by a character in Vaisampayana's \"Bharata\", which itself is narrated by a character in Ugrasrava's \"Mahabharata\".\n\nBoth \"The Golden Ass\" by Apuleius and \"Metamorphoses\" by Ovid extend the depths of framing to several degrees. Another early example is the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), where the general story is narrated by an unknown narrator, and in this narration the stories are told by Scheherazade. In many of Scheherazade's narrations there are also stories narrated, and even in some of these, there are some other stories. An example of this is \"The Three Apples\", a murder mystery narrated by Scheherazade. Within the story, after the murderer reveals himself, he narrates a flashback of events leading up to the murder. Within this flashback, an unreliable narrator tells a story to mislead the would-be murderer, who later discovers that he was misled after another character narrates the truth to him. As the story concludes, the \"\" is narrated within it. This perennially popular work can be traced back to Arabic, Persian, and Indian storytelling traditions. \n\nMary Shelley's \"Frankenstein\" has a deeply nested frame story structure, that features the narration of an Arctic explorer, who records the narration of Victor Frankenstein, who recounts the narration of his creation, who narrates the story of a cabin dwelling family he secretly observes. Similarly, Roald Dahl's story \"The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar\" is about a rich bachelor who finds an essay written by someone who learnt to \"see\" playing cards from the reverse side. The full text of this essay is included in the story, and itself includes a lengthy sub-story told as a true experience by one of the essay's protagonists, Imhrat Khan.\n\nChaucer's \"The Canterbury Tales\" and Boccacio's Decameron are also classic frame stories. In Chaucer's \"Canterbury Tales\", the characters tell tales suited to their personalities and tell them in ways that highlight their personalities. The noble knight tells a noble story, the boring character tells a very dull tale, and the rude miller tells a smutty tale. Homer's \"Odyssey\" too makes use of this device; Odysseus' adventures at sea are all narrated by Odysseus to the court of king Alcinous in Scheria. Other shorter tales, many of them false, account for much of the \"Odyssey\". Many modern children's story collections are essentially anthology works connected by this device, such as Arnold Lobel's \"Mouse Tales\", Paula Fox's \"The Little Swineherd\", and Phillip and Hillary Sherlock's \"Ears and Tails and Common Sense\".\n\nA well-known modern example of framing is \"The Princess Bride\" (both the book and the movie). In the movie, a grandfather is reading the story of \"The Princess Bride\" to his grandson. In the book, a more detailed frame story has a father editing a much longer (but fictive) work for his son, creating his own \"Good Parts Version\" (as the book called it) by leaving out all the parts that would bore a young boy. Both the book and the movie assert that the central story is from a book called \"The Princess Bride\" by a nonexistent author named S. Morgenstern.\nIn the Welsh novel, Aelwyd F'Ewythr Robert (1852) by Gwilym Hiraethog a visitor to a farm in north Wales tells the story of Uncle Tom's Cabin to those gathered around the hearth.\n\nSometimes a frame story exists in the same setting as the main story. On the television series \"The Young Indiana Jones Chronicles\", each episode was framed as though it were being told by Indy when he was older (usually acted by George Hall, but once by Harrison Ford). The same device of an adult narrator representing the older version of a young protagonist is used in the films \"Stand By Me\" and \"A Christmas Story\", and the television show \"The Wonder Years\".\n\nIn The Amory Wars, a tale told through the music of Coheed and Cambria, tells a story for the first two albums but reveals that the story is being actively written by a character called the Writer in the third. During the album, the Writer delves into his own story and kills one of the characters, much to the dismay of the main character.\n\nThe critically acclaimed Beatles album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\" is presented as a stage show by the fictional eponymous band, and one of its songs, \"A Day in the Life\" is in the form of a story within a dream. Similarly, the Fugees album \"The Score\" is presented as the soundtrack to a fictional movie, as are several other notable concept albums, while Wyclef Jean's \"The Carnival\" is presented as testimony at a trial. The majority of Ayreon's albums outline a sprawling, loosely interconnected science fiction narrative, as do the albums of Janelle Monae.\n\nIn his 1895 historical novel \"Pharaoh\", Bolesław Prus introduces a number of stories within the story, ranging in length from vignettes to full-blown stories, many of them drawn from ancient Egyptian texts, that further the plot, illuminate characters, and even inspire the fashioning of individual characters. Jan Potocki's \"The Manuscript Found in Saragossa\" (1797–1805) has an interlocking structure with stories-within-stories reaching several levels of depth.\n\nThe provenance of the story is sometimes explained internally, as in \"The Lord of the Rings\" by J. R. R. Tolkien, which depicts the Red Book of Westmarch (a story-internal version of the book itself) as a history compiled by several of the characters. The subtitle of \"The Hobbit\" (\"There and Back Again\") is depicted as part of a rejected title of this book within a book, and \"The Lord of the Rings\" is a part of the final title.\n\nAn example of an interconnected inner story is \"The Mad Trist\" in Edgar Allan Poe's \"Fall of the House of Usher\", where through somewhat mystical means the narrator's reading of the story within a story influences the reality of the story he has been telling, so that what happens in \"The Mad Trist\" begins happening in \"The Fall of the House of Usher\". Also, in \"Don Quixote\" by Cervantes, there are many stories within the story that influence the hero's actions (there are others that even the author himself admits are purely digressive).\n\nA commonly independently anthologised story is \"The Grand Inquisitor\" by Dostoevsky from his long psychological novel \"The Brothers Karamazov\", which is told by one brother to another to explain, in part, his view on religion and morality. It also, in a succinct way, dramatizes many of Dostoevsky's interior conflicts.\n\nAn example of a \"bonus material\" style inner story is the chapter \"The Town Ho's Story\" in Herman Melville's novel \"Moby-Dick\"; that chapter tells a fully formed story of an exciting mutiny and contains many plot ideas that Melville had conceived during the early stages of writing \"Moby-Dick\"—ideas originally intended to be used later in the novel—but as the writing progressed, these plot ideas eventually proved impossible to fit around the characters that Melville went on to create and develop. Instead of discarding the ideas altogether, Melville wove them into a coherent short story and had the character Ishmael demonstrate his eloquence and intelligence by telling the story to his impressed friends. \n\nWith the rise of literary modernism, writers experimented with ways in which multiple narratives might nest imperfectly within each other. A particularly ingenious example of nested narratives is James Merrill's 1974 modernist poem \"Lost in Translation\".\n\nIn Rabih Alameddine's novel \"The Hakawati\", or \"The Storyteller\", the protagonist describes coming home to the funeral of his father, one of a long line of traditional Arabic storytellers. Throughout the narrative, the author becomes hakawati (an Arabic word for a teller of traditional tales) himself, weaving the tale of the story of his own life and that of his family with folkloric versions of tales from Qur'an, the Old Testament, Ovid, and One Thousand and One Nights. Both the tales he tells of his family (going back to his grandfather) and the embedded folk tales, themselves embed other tales, often 2 or more layers deep.\n\nIn Sue Townsend's \"\", Adrian writes a book entitled \"Lo! The Flat Hills Of My Homeland\", in which the main character, Jake Westmorland, writes a book called \"Sparg of Kronk\", whose eponymous character, Sparg, writes a book with no language.\n\nDreams are a common way of including stories inside stories, and can sometimes go several levels deep. Both the book \"The Arabian Nightmare\" and the curse of \"eternal waking\" from the Neil Gaiman series \"The Sandman\" feature an endless series of waking from one dream into another dream. In Charles Maturin's novel \"Melmoth the Wanderer\", the use of vast stories-within-stories creates a sense of dream-like quality in the reader.\n\nThis structure is also found in classic religious and philosophical texts. The structure of \"The Symposium\" and \"Phaedo\", attributed to Plato, is of a story within a story within a story. In the Christian Bible, the gospels are retellings of stories from the life and ministry of Jesus. However, they also include within them the stories (parables) that Jesus told. In more modern philosophical work, Jostein Gaarder's books often feature this device. Examples are \"The Solitaire Mystery\", where the protagonist receives a small book from a baker, in which the baker tells the story of a sailor who tells the story of another sailor, and \"Sophie's World\" about a girl who is actually a character in a book that is being read by Hilde, a girl in another dimension. Later on in the book Sophie questions this idea, and realizes that Hilde too could be a character in a story that in turn is being read by another.\n\nThe experimental modernist works that incorporate multiple narratives into one story are quite often science-fiction or science fiction influenced. These include most of the various novels written by the American author Kurt Vonnegut. Vonnegut includes the recurring character Kilgore Trout in many of his novels. Trout acts as the mysterious science fiction writer who enhances the morals of the novels through plot descriptions of his stories. Books such as \"Breakfast of Champions\" and \"God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater\" are sprinkled with these plot descriptions. Stanisław Lem's \"Tale of the Three Storytelling Machines of King Genius\" from \"The Cyberiad\" has several levels of storytelling. All levels tell stories of the same person, Trurl. \n\n\"House of Leaves\" is the tale of a man who finds a manuscript telling the story of a documentary that may or may not have ever existed, contains multiple layers of plot. The book includes footnotes and letters that tell their own stories only vaguely related to the events in the main narrative of the book, and footnotes for fake books. \n\nRobert A. Heinlein's later books (\"The Number of the Beast\", \"The Cat Who Walks Through Walls\" and \"To Sail Beyond the Sunset\") propose the idea that every real universe is a fiction in another universe. This hypothesis enables many writers who are characters in the books to interact with their own creations. Margaret Atwood's novel \"The Blind Assassin\" is interspersed with excerpts from a novel written by one of the main characters; the novel-within-a-novel itself contains a science fiction story written by one of \"that\" novel's characters. \n\nIn Philip K. Dick's novel \"The Man in the High Castle\", each character comes into interaction with a book called \"The Grasshopper Lies Heavy\", which was written by the Man in the High Castle. As Dick's novel details a world in which the Axis Powers of World War II had succeeded in dominating the known world, the novel within the novel details an alternative to this history in which the Allies overcome the Axis and bring stability to the world – a victory which itself is quite different from our history. \n\nIn \"Red Orc's Rage\" by Philip J. Farmer a doubly recursive method is used to interwine its fictional layers. This novel is part of a science-fiction series, the \"World of Tiers\". Farmer collaborated in the writing of this novel with an American psychiatrist, Dr. A. James Giannini. Dr. Giannini had previously used the World of Tiers series in treating patients in group therapy. During these therapeutic sessions, the content and process of the text and novelist was discussed rather than the lives of the patients. In this way subconscious defenses could be circumvented. Farmer took the real life case-studies and melded these with adventures of his characters in the series.\n\nThe \"Quantum Leap\" novel \"Knights Of The Morningstar\" also features a character who writes a book by that name. In Matthew Stover's novel \"Shatterpoint\", the protagonist Mace Windu narrates the story within his journal, while the main story is being told from the third-person limited point of view. \n\nSeveral \"Star Trek\" tales are stories or events within stories, such as Gene Roddenberry's novelization of \"\", J. A. Lawrence's \"Mudd's Angels\", John M. Ford's \"The Final Reflection\", Margaret Wander Bonanno's \"Strangers from the Sky\" (which adopts the conceit that it is book from the future by an author called Gen Jaramet-Sauner), and J. R. Rasmussen's \"Research\" in the anthology \" II\". Steven Barnes's novelization of \"Far Beyond the Stars\" partners with Greg Cox's \"\" (Volume Two) to tell us that the story \"Far Beyond the Stars\"—and, by extension, all of \"Star Trek\" itself—is the creation of 1950s writer Benny Russell.\n\nThe book \"Cloud Atlas\" (later adapted into a film by The Wachowkis and Tom Tykwer) consisted of six interlinked stories nested inside each other in a Russian doll fashion. The first story (that of Adam Ewing in the 1850s befriending an escaped slave) is interrupted halfway through and revealed to be part of a journal being read by composer Robert Frobisher in 1930s Belgium. His own story of working for a more famous composer is told in a series of letters to his lover Rufus Sixsmith, which are interrupted halfway through and revealed to be in the possession of an investigative journalist named Luisa Rey and so on. Each of the first five tales are interrupt in the middle, with the sixth tale being told in full, before the preceding five tales are finished in reverse order. Each layer of the story either challenges the veracity of the previous layer, or is challenged by the succeeding layer. Presuming each layer to be a true telling within the overall story, a chain of events is created linking Adam Ewing's embrace of the abolitionist movement in the 1850s to the religious redemption of a post apocalyptic tribal man over a century after the fall of modern civilization. The characters in each nested layer take inspiration or lessons from the stories of their predecessors in a manner that validates a belief stated in the sixth tale that \"Our lives are not our own. We are bound to others, past and present and by each crime, and every kindness, we birth our future.\"\n\n\"The Crying of Lot 49\" by Thomas Pynchon has several characters seeing a play called \"The Courier's Tragedy\" by the fictitious Jacobean playwright Richard Wharfinger. The events of the play broadly mirror those of the novel and give the main character, Oedipa Maas, a greater context with which to consider her predicament; the play concerns a feud between two rival mail distribution companies, which appears to be ongoing to the present day, and in which, if this is the case, Oedipa has found herself involved. As in \"Hamlet\", the director makes changes to the original script; in this instance, a couplet that was added, possibly by religious zealots intent on giving the play extra moral gravity, are said only on the night that Oedipa sees the play. From what Pynchon tells us, this is the only mention in the play of Thurn and Taxis' rivals' name—Trystero—and it is the seed for the conspiracy that unfurls. A significant portion of Walter Moers' \"Labyrinth of Dreaming Books\" is an ekphrasis on the subject of an epic puppet theater presentation. Another example is found in Samuel Delany's \"Trouble on Triton\", which features a theater company that produces elaborate staged spectacles for randomly selected single-person audiences. Plays produced by the \"Caws of Art\" theater company also feature in Russell Hoban's modern fable, The Mouse and His Child.\n\nIn Manuel Puig's \"Kiss of the Spider Woman\", ekphrases on various old movies, some real, and some fictional, make up a substantial portion of the narrative. In Paul Russell's \"Boys of Life\", descriptions of movies by director/antihero Carlos (loosely inspired by controversial director Pier Paulo Pasolini) provide a narrative counterpoint and add a touch of surrealism to the main narrative. They additionally raise the question of whether works of artistic genius justify or atone for the sins and crimes of their creators.\n\nThis dramatic device was probably first used by Thomas Kyd in \"The Spanish Tragedy\" around 1587, where the play is presented before an audience of two of the characters, who comment upon the action. From references in other contemporary works, Kyd is also assumed to have been the writer of an early, lost version of \"Hamlet\" (the so-called \"Ur-Hamlet\"), with a play-within-a-play interlude. William Shakespeare's \"Hamlet\" retains this device by having Hamlet ask some strolling players to perform the \"Murder of Gonzago\". The action and characters in \"The Murder\" mirror the murder of Hamlet's father in the main action, and Prince Hamlet writes additional material to emphasize this. Hamlet wishes to provoke the murderer, his uncle, and sums this up by saying \"the play's the thing wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king.\" Hamlet calls this new play \"The Mouse-trap\" (a title that Agatha Christie later took for the long-running play \"The Mousetrap\"). The play \"I Hate Hamlet\" and the movie \"A Midwinter's Tale\" are about a production of \"Hamlet\", which in turn includes a production of \"The Murder of Gonzago\", as does the Hamlet-based film \"Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead\" which even features a third-level puppet theatre version within their play. Similarly, in Anton Chekhov's \"The Seagull\" there are specific allusions to \"Hamlet\": in the first act a son stages a play to impress his mother, a professional actress, and her new lover; the mother responds by comparing her son to Hamlet. Later he tries to come between them, as Hamlet had done with his mother and her new husband. The tragic developments in the plot follow in part from the scorn the mother shows for her son's play.\n\nShakespeare adopted the play-within-a-play device for many of his other plays as well, including \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\"and \"Love's Labours Lost\". Almost the whole of \"The Taming of the Shrew\" is a play-within-a-play, presented to convince Christopher Sly, a drunken tinker, that he is a nobleman watching a private performance, but the device has no relevance to the plot (unless Katharina's subservience to her \"lord\" in the last scene is intended to strengthen the deception against the tinker) and is often dropped in modern productions. The musical \"Kiss Me, Kate\" is about the production of a fictitious musical, \"The Taming of the Shrew,\" based on the Shakespeare play of the same name, and features several scenes from it. \"Pericles\" draws in part on the 14th century \"Confessio Amantis\" (itself a frame story) by John Gower and Shakespeare has the ghost of Gower \"assume man's infirmities\" to introduce his work to the contemporary audience and comment on the action of the play. \n\nIn Francis Beaumont's \"Knight of the Burning Pestle\" (ca. 1608) a supposed common citizen from the audience, actually a \"planted\" actor, condemns the play that has just started and \"persuades\" the players to present something about a shopkeeper. The citizen's \"apprentice\" then acts, pretending to extemporise, in the rest of the play. This is a satirical tilt at Beaumont's playwright contemporaries and their current fashion for offering plays about London life.\n\nThe opera \"Pagliacci\" is about a troupe of actors who perform a play about marital infidelity that mirrors their own lives, and composer Richard Rodney Bennett and playwright-librettist Beverley Cross's \"The Mines of Sulphur\" features a ghostly troupe of actors who perform a play about murder that similarly mirrors the lives of their hosts, from whom they depart, leaving them with the plague as nemesis. And John Adams' \"Nixon in China\" (1985-7) features a surreal version of Madam Mao's \"Red Detachment of Women\" to extraordinary effect, illuminating the ascendance of human values over the disillusionment of high politics in the meeting.\n\nIn Bertolt Brecht's \"The Caucasian Chalk Circle,\" a play is staged as a parable to villagers in the Soviet Union to justify the re-allocation of their farmland: the tale describes how a child is awarded to a servant-girl rather than its natural mother, an aristocrat, as the woman most likely to care for it well. This kind of play-within-a-play, which appears at the beginning of the main play and acts as a 'frame' for it, is called an \"'induction'\". Brecht's one-act play \"The Elephant Calf\" (1926) is a play-within-a-play performed in the foyer of the theatre during his \"Man Equals Man\".\n\nIn Jean Giraudoux's play \"Ondine\", all of act two is a series of scenes within scenes, sometimes two levels deep. This increases the dramatic tension and also makes more poignant the inevitable failure of the relationship between the mortal Hans and water sprite Ondine.\n\n\"The Two-Character Play\" by Tennessee Williams has a concurrent double plot with the convention of a play within a play. Felice and Clare are siblings and are both actor/producers touring ‘The Two-Character Play.’ They have supposedly been abandoned by their crew and have been left to put on the play by themselves. The characters in the play are also brother and sister and are also named Clare and Felice.\n\n\"The Mysteries\", a modern reworking of the medieval mystery plays, remains faithful to its roots by having the modern actors play the sincere, naïve tradesmen and women as they take part in the original performances.\n\nAlternatively, a play might be about the production of a play, and include the performance of all or part of the play, as in \"Noises Off\", \"A Chorus of Disapproval\" or \"Lilies\". Similarly, the musical \"Man of La Mancha\" presents the story of Don Quixote as an impromptu play staged in prison by \"Quixote\"'s author, Miguel de Cervantes.\n\nIn most stagings of the musical \"Cats\", which include the song \"Growltiger's Last Stand\" — a recollection of an old play by Gus the Theatre Cat — the character of Lady Griddlebone sings \"The Ballad of Billy McCaw\". (However, many productions of the show omit \"Growltiger's Last Stand\", and \"The Ballad of Billy McCaw\" has at times been replaced with a mock aria, so this metastory isn't always seen.) Depending on the production, there is another musical scene called The Awful Battle of the Pekes and the Pollices where the Jellicles put on a show for their leader. In \"\", there are three play within a plays. First, when Lestat visits his childhood friend, Nicolas, who works in a theater, where he discovers his love for theater; and two more when the Theater of the Vampires perform. One is used as a plot mechanism to explain the vampire god, Marius, which sparks an interest in Lestat to find him.\n\nA play within a play also occurs in the musical \"The King and I\", where Princess Tuptim and the royal dancers give a performance of \"Small House of Uncle Thomas\" (or \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\") to their English guests. The play mirrors Tuptim's situation, as she wishes to run away from slavery to be with her lover, Lun Tha.\n\nIn stagings of Dina Rubina's play \"Always the Same Dream\", the story is about staging a school play based on a poem by Pushkin.\n\nJoseph Heller's 1967 play \"We Bombed in New Haven\" is about actors engaged in a play about military airmen; the actors themselves become at times unsure whether they are actors or actual airmen.\n\nThe 1937 musical Babes in Arms is about a group of kids putting on a musical to raise money. The central plot device was retained for the popular 1939 film version with Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney. A similar plot was recycled for the films White Christmas and The Blues Brothers.\n\nTV Tropes maintains a list of feature films that feature this plot device. \"Singin' in the Rain\" (1952) is frequently listed as the earliest example, although there are antecedents in silent cinema such as \"Mabel's Dramatic Career\" (1913).\n\nThe François Truffaut film \"Day for Night\" is about the making of a fictitious movie called \"Meet Pamela\" (\"Je vous présente Pamela\") and shows the interactions of the actors as they are making this movie about a woman who falls for her husband's father. The story of \"Pamela\" involves lust, betrayal, death, sorrow, and change, events that are mirrored in the experiences of the actors portrayed in \"Day for Night\". There are a wealth of other movies that revolve around the film industry itself, even if not centering exclusively on one nested film. These include the darkly satirical classic \"Sunset Boulevard\" about an aging star and her parasitic victim, and the Coen Brothers' farce \"Hail, Caesar!\"\n\nThe script to Karel Reisz's movie \"The French Lieutenant's Woman\" (1981), written by Harold Pinter, is a film-within-a-film adaptation of John Fowles's book. In addition to the Victorian love story of the book, Pinter creates a present-day background story that shows a love affair between the main actors.\n\nIn Buster Keaton's \"Sherlock, Jr.\", Keaton's protagonist actually enters into a film while it is playing in a cinema, as does the main character in the Arnold Schwarzenegger children's film \"The Last Action Hero\". A similar device is used in the seminal music video \"Take on me\" by A-ha, which features a young woman entering a cartoon universe. Conversely, Woody Allen's \"Purple Rose of Cairo\" is about a movie character exiting the movie to interact with the real world. Allen's earlier film \"Play it Again, Sam\" featured liberal use of characters, dialogue and clips from the film classic \"Casablanca\" as a central device.\n\nThe 2002 Pedro Almodóvar film \"Talk to Her\" (\"Hable con ella\") has the chief character Benigno tell a story called \"The Shrinking Lover\" to Alicia, a long-term comatose patient whom Benigno, a male nurse, is assigned to care for. The film presents \"The Shrinking Lover\" in the form of a black-and-white silent melodrama. To prove his love to a scientist girlfriend, \"The Shrinking Lover\" protagonist drinks a potion that makes him progressively smaller. The resulting seven-minute scene, which is readily intelligible and enjoyable as a stand-alone short subject, is considerably more overtly comic than the rest of \"Talk to Her\"—the protagonist climbs giant breasts as if they were rock formations and even ventures his way inside a (compared to him) gigantic vagina. Critics have noted that \"The Shrinking Lover\" essentially is a sex metaphor. Later in \"Talk to Her,\" the comatose Alicia is discovered to be pregnant and Benigno is sentenced to jail for rape. \"The Shrinking Lover\" was named Best Scene of 2002 in the \"Skandies\", an annual survey of online cinephiles and critics invited each year by critic Mike D'Angelo.\n\n\"Tropic Thunder\" (2008) is a comedy film revolving around a group of prima donna actors making a Vietnam War film (itself also named \"Tropic Thunder\") when their fed-up writer and director decide to abandon them in the middle of the jungle, forcing them to fight their way out. The concept was perhaps inspired by the 1986 comedy Three Amigos, where three washed-up silent film stars are expected to live out a real-life version of their old hit movies. The same idea of life being forced to imitate art was also reprised in the Star Trek parody Galaxy Quest.\n\nThe first episode of the anime series \"The Melancholy Of Haruhi Suzumiya\" consists almost entirely of a poorly made film that the protagonists created, complete with Kyon's typical, sarcastic commentary.\n\nChuck Jones's 1953 cartoon \"Duck Amuck\" shows Daffy Duck trapped in a cartoon that an unseen animator repeatedly manipulates. At the end, it is revealed that the whole cartoon was being controlled by Bugs Bunny. The \"Duck Amuck\" plot was essentially replicated in one of Jones' later cartoons, \"Rabbit Rampage\" (1955), in which Bugs Bunny turns out to be the victim of the sadistic animator (Elmer Fudd). A similar plot was also included in an episode of \"Baby Looney Tunes\", in which Bugs was the victim, Daffy was the animator, and it was made on a computer instead of a pencil and paper. In 2007, the \"Duck Amuck\" sequence was parodied on \"Drawn Together\" (\"Nipple Ring-Ring Goes to Foster Care\").\n\nAll feature-length films by Jörg Buttgereit except \"Schramm\" feature a film within the film. In \"Nekromantik\", the protagonist goes to the cinema to see the fictional slasher film \"Vera\". In \"Der Todesking\" one of the character watches a video of the fictional Nazi exploitation film \"Vera - Todesengel der Gestapo\" and in \"Nekromantik 2\", the characters go to see a movie called \"Mon dejeuner avec Vera\" which is a parody of Louis Malle's \"My Dinner with André\"\n\nQuentin Tarantino's \"Inglourious Basterds\" depicts a Nazi propaganda film called \"Nation's Pride\", which glorifies a soldier in the German army. \"Nation's Pride\" is directed by Eli Roth.\n\nJoe Dante's \"Matinee\" depicts \"Mant\", an early-'60s sci-fi/horror movie about a man who turns into an ant. In one scene, the protagonists see a Disney-style family movie called \"The Shook-Up Shopping Cart\".\n\nThe 2002 martial arts epic Hero presented the same narrative several different times, as recounted by different storytellers, but with both factual and aesthetic differences. Similarly, in the whimsical 1988 Terry Gilliam film The Adventures of Baron Munchausen, and the 2003 Tim Burton film Big Fish, the bulk of the film is a series of stories told by an (extremely) unreliable narrator. In the 2006 Tarsem film \"The Fall\", an injured silent-movie stuntman tells heroic fantasy stories to a little girl with a broken arm to pass time in the hospital, which the film visualizes and presents with the stuntman's voice becoming voiceover narration. The fantasy tale bleeds back into and comments on the film's \"present-tense\" story. There are often incongruities based on the fact that the stuntman is an American and the girl Persian—the stuntman's voiceover refers to \"Indians,\" “a squaw” and “a teepee,” but the visuals show a Bollywood-style devi and a Taj Mahal-like castle. The same conceit of an unreliable narrator was used to very different effect in the 1995 crime drama The Usual Suspects (which garnered an Oscar for Kevin Spacey's performance).\n\nThe seminal 1950 Japanese film \"Rashomon\", based on the Japanese short story \"In a Grove\" (1921), utilizes the flashback-within-a-flashback technique. The story unfolds in flashback as the four witnesses in the story—the bandit, the murdered samurai, his wife, and the nameless woodcutter—recount the events of one afternoon in a grove. But it is also a flashback within a flashback, because the accounts of the witnesses are being retold by a woodcutter and a priest to a ribald commoner as they wait out a rainstorm in a ruined gatehouse.\n\nThe movie \"Inception\" has a deeply nested structure that is itself part of the setting, as the characters travel deeper and deeper into layers of dreams within dreams. Similarly, in the beginning of the music video for the Michael Jackson song \"Thriller\", the heroine is terrorized by her monster boyfriend in what turns out to be a movie within a dream. The film \"Grand Budapest Hotel\" has four layers of narration; starting with a young girl at the author's memorial reading his book, it cuts to the old author in 1985 telling of an incident in 1968 when he, as a young author, stayed at the hotel and met the owner, old Zero. He was then told the story of young Zero and M Gustave, from 1932, which makes up most of the narrative.\n\nThe 2001 film \"Moulin Rouge!\" features a fictitious musical within a film, called \"Spectacular Spectacular\". The 1942 Ernst Lubitsch comedy \"To Be or Not to Be\" confuses the audience in the opening scenes with a play, \"The Naughty Nazis\", about Adolf Hitler which appears to be taking place within the actual plot of the film. Thereafter, the acting company players serve as the protagonists of the film and frequently use acting/costumes to deceive various characters in the film. \"Hamlet\" also serves as an important throughline in the film, as suggested by the title. Laurence Olivier sets the opening scene of his 1944 film of \"Henry V\" in the tiring room of the old Globe Theatre as the actors prepare for their roles on stage. The early part of the film follows the actors in these \"stage\" performances and only later does the action almost imperceptibly expand to the full realism of the Battle of Agincourt. By way of increasingly more artificial sets (based on mediaeval paintings) the film finally returns to The Globe. Mel Brook's film, \"The Producers\", revolves around a scheme to make money by producing a disastrously bad Broadway musical, \"Springtime For Hitler.\" Ironically the film itself was later made into its own Broadway musical (although a more intentionally successful one). The Outkast music video for the song \"Roses\" is a short film about a high school musical.\n\nThe main plot device in \"Repo! The Genetic Opera\" is an opera which is going to be held the night of the events of the movie. All of the principal characters of the film play a role in the opera, though the audience watching the opera is unaware that some of the events portrayed are more than drama.\n\nIn \"Diary of a Wimpy Kid\", the middle-schoolers put on a play of \"The Wizard of Oz\".\n\nThe 1990 biopic Korczak, about the last days of a Jewish children's orphanage in Nazi occupied Poland, features an amateur production of Rabindranath Tagore's \"The Post Office\", which was selected by the orphanage's visionary leader as a way of preparing his charges for their own impending death. That same production is also featured in the stage play \"Korczak's Children,\" also inspired by the same historical events.\n\nThe 1973 film adaptation of Peter Nichols's 1969 play, \"The National Health\" features a send-up of a typical American hospital soap-opera being shown on a television situated in an underfunded, unmistakably British NHS hospital.\n\nThe Jim Carey film The Truman Show is about a person who grows to adulthood without ever realizing that he is the unwitting hero of the immersive eponymous television show.\n\nThe first example of a video game within a video game is almost certainly Tim Stryker's 80s era text-only game Fazuul (also the world's first online multiplayer game), in which one of the objects that the player can create is a minigame. Another early use of this trope was in Cliff Johnson's 1987 hit The Fool's Errand, a thematically linked narrative puzzle game, in which several of the puzzles were semi-independent games played against NPCs.\n\n\"Power Factor\" has been cited as a rare example of a video game in which the entire concept is a video game within a video game: The player takes on the role of a character who is playing a \"Virtual Reality Simulator\", in which he in turn takes on the role of the hero Redd Ace. The \".hack\" franchise also gives the concept a central role. It features a narrative in which internet advancements have created an MMORPG franchise called The World. Protagonists Kite and Haseo try to uncover the mysteries of the events surrounding The World. Characters in .hack are self-aware that they are video game characters.\n\nMore commonly, however, the video game within a video game device takes the form of mini-games that are non-plot oriented, and optional to the completion of the game. For example, in the \"Yakuza\" and \"Shenmue\" franchises, there are playable arcade machines featuring other Sega games that are scattered throughout the game world.\n\nIn \"Final Fantasy VII\" there are several video games that can be played in an arcade in the Gold Saucer theme park. In \"Animal Crossing\", the player can acquire individual NES emulations through various means and place them within their house, where they are playable in their entirety. When placed in the house, the games take the form of a Nintendo Entertainment System. In \"Fallout 4\", the protagonist can find several cartridges throughout the wasteland that can be played on his pip-boy (an electronic device that exists only in the world of the game) or any terminal computer.\n\nIn the Remedy video game title \"Max Payne\" players can chance upon a number of ongoing television shows when activating or happening upon various television sets within the game environs, depending on where / when they are within the unfolding game narrative will dictate which episode of what show is found. Among them are \"Lords & Ladies\", \"Captain Baseball Bat Boy\", \"\" and the pinnacle television serial \"Address Unknown\" -heavily inspired by David Lynch style film narrative, particularly \"Twin Peaks\", Address Unknown sometimes prophesies events or character motives yet to occur in the Max Payne narrative.\n\nIn \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", the player can watch several TV channels which include many programs: reality shows, cartoons, and even game shows.\n\n\"Terrance & Phillip\" from \"South Park\" comments on the levels of violence and acceptable behaviour in the media and allow criticism of the outer cartoon to be addressed in the cartoon itself. Similarly, on the long running animated sitcom, \"The Simpsons\", Bart's favorite cartoon, \"Itchy and Scratchy\" (a parody of \"Tom & Jerry\"), often echoes the plotlines of the main show. \"The Simpsons\" also parodied this structure with numerous 'layers' of sub-stories in the Season 17 episode \"The Seemingly Never-Ending Story\".\n\nOn the show \"Dear White People\", the \"Scandal\" parody \"Defamation\" offers a ironic commentary on the main show's theme of interracial relationships. Similarly, on the HBO show \"Insecure\" the slavery-era soap opera \"Due North\" is an obsession for the show's main characters.\n\nThe Irish television series \"Father Ted\" features a television show, \"Father Ben\", which has characters and storylines almost identical to that of Father Ted.\n\nThe television shows \"30 Rock\", \"Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip\", \"Sonny with a Chance\", and \"Kappa Mikey\" feature a sketch show within the TV show.\n\nAn extended plotline on the semi-autobiographical sitcom \"Seinfeld\" dealt with the main characters developing a sitcom about their lives. The gag was reprised on \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", another semi-autobiographical show by and about \"Seinfeld\" co-creator Larry David, when the long-anticipated \"Seinfeld\" reunion was staged entirely inside the new show.\n\nThe \"USS Callister\" episode of the \"Black Mirror\" anthology television series is about a man obsessed with a Star-Trek like show, who recreates it as part of a virtual reality game.\n\nThe concept of a film within a television series is employed in the Macross universe. \"\" (1984) was originally intended as an alternative theatrical re-telling of the television series \"The Super Dimension Fortress Macross\" (1982), but was later \"retconned\" into the Macross canon as a popular movie within the television series \"Macross 7\" (1994).\n\n\"Seinfeld\" had a number of reoccurring fictional films, most notably \"Rochelle, Rochelle\", a parody of artsy but exploitative foreign films, while the trippy, metaphysically loopy thriller \"Death Castle\" is a central element of the \"Master of None\" episode \"New York, I Love You.\"\n\nStories inside stories can allow for genre changes. Arthur Ransome uses the device to let his young characters in the \"Swallows and Amazons series\" of children's books, set in the recognisable everyday world, take part in fantastic adventures of piracy in distant lands: two of the twelve books, \"Peter Duck\" and \"Missee Lee\" (and some would include \"Great Northern?\" as a third), are adventures supposedly made up by the characters. Similarly, the film version of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" uses a story within a story format to tell a purely fantastic fairy tale within a relatively more realistic frame-story. The film version of \"The Wizard of Oz\" does the same thing by making its inner story into a dream. Lewis Carroll's celebrated \"Alice\" books use the same device of a dream as an excuse for fantasy, while Carroll's less well-known \"Sylvie and Bruno\" subverts the trope by allowing the dream figures to enter and interact with the \"real\" world.\nSome stories feature what might be called a literary version of the Droste effect, where an image contains a smaller version of itself (also a common feature in many fractals). Among the stories that include versions of themselves are Neil Gaiman's \"\" which contains several instances of multiple storytelling levels, including \"Cerements\" (issue #55) where one of the inmost levels corresponds to one of the outer levels, turning the story-within-a-story structure into an infinite regression. Similarly, in Charlie Kaufman's 2008 film \"Synecdoche, New York\", the main character Caden Cotard is a skilled director of plays who receives a grant, and ends up creating a remarkable theater piece intended as a carbon copy of the outside world. The layers of copies of the world ends up several layers deep.\n\nThe long-running musical A Chorus Line dramatizes its own creation, and the life stories of its own original cast members. The famous final number does double duty as the showstopper for both the musical the audience is watching and the one the characters are appearing in.\n\nMichael Ende's classic children's novel The Neverending Story prominently features a book of the same title. This is later revealed to be the same book the audience is reading, when it begins to be retold again from the beginning, thus creating an infinite regression that features as a plot element. Similarly, in the Will Ferrell comedy Stranger than Fiction the main character discovers he is a character in a book that (along with its author) also exists in the same universe.\n\nIn Douglas Hofstadter's \"Gödel, Escher, Bach\", there is a narrative between Achilles and the Tortoise (characters borrowed from Lewis Carroll, who in turn borrowed them from Zeno), and within this story they find a book entitled \"Provocative Adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise Taking Place in Sundry Spots of the Globe\", which they begin to read, the Tortoise taking the part of the Tortoise, and Achilles taking the part of Achilles. Within this narrative, which itself is somewhat self-referential, the two characters find a book entitled \"Provocative Adventures of Achilles and the Tortoise Taking Place in Sundry Spots of the Globe\", which they begin to read, the Tortoise taking the part of Achilles, and Achilles taking the part of the Tortoise.\n\nThe music video for the Björk song \"Bachelorette\" features a musical that is about, in part, the creation of that musical. A mini-theater and small audience appear on stage to watch the musical-within-a-musical, and at some point, within that second musical a yet-smaller theater and audience appear.\n\nEpisode 14 of the anime series \"Martian Successor Nadesico\" is essentially a clip show, but has several newly animated segments based on \"Gekigangar III\", an anime that exists within its universe and that many characters are fans of, that involves the characters of that show watching Nadesico. The episode ends with the crew of the Nadesico watching the very same episode of Gekigangar, causing a paradox.\n\n\"Austin Powers in Goldmember\" begins with an action film opening, which turns out to be a sequence being filmed by Steven Spielberg. Near the ending, the events of the film itself are revealed to be a movie being enjoyed by the characters. The 1985 Tim Burton film Pee-Wee's Big Adventure ends with the main characters watching a film version of their own adventures, but as reimagined as a Hollywood blockbuster action film, with James Brolin as a more stereotypically manly version of the Paul Reubens title character. Mel Brooks's 1974 comedy \"Blazing Saddles\" leaves its Western setting when the climactic fight scene breaks out, revealing the setting to have been a set in the Warner Bros. studio lot; the fight spills out onto an adjacent musical set, then into the studio canteen, and finally onto the streets. The two protagonists arrive at Grauman's Chinese Theater, which is showing the \"premiere\" of \"Blazing Saddles\"; they enter the cinema to watch the conclusion of their own film. Brooks recycled the gag in his 1987 \"Star Wars\" parody, \"Spaceballs\", where the villains are able to locate the heroes by watching a copy of the movie they are in on VHS video tape (a comic exaggeration of the phenomenon of films being available on video before their theatrical release). Brooks also made the 1976 parody \"Silent Movie\" about a buffoonish team of filmmakers trying to make the first Hollywood silent film in forty years --which is essentially that film itself (another forty years later, life imitated art imitating art, when an actual modern silent movie became a hit, the Oscar nominated \"The Artist\").\n\nIn the latter two films of the \"Scream\" horror trilogy, a film-within-a-film format is used when the events of the first film spawn their own horror trilogy within the films themselves. In \"Scream 2\", characters get killed while watching a film version of the events in the first \"Scream\" film, while in \"Scream 3\" the actors playing the trilogy's characters end up getting killed, much in the same way as the characters they are playing on screen. In the latest \"Scream\" movie, \"Scream 4\", in the opening sequence, two characters are watching Stab 7 before they get killed. Also, the characters of Stab 7 are watching Stab 6. There's also a party in which all seven Stab movies were going to be shown. References are also made to Stab 5 involving time travel as a plot device.\n\nDirector Spike Jonze's \"Adaptation\" is a fictionalized version of screenwriter Charlie Kaufman's struggles to adapt the non-cinematic book \"The Orchid Thief\" into a Hollywood blockbuster. As his onscreen self succumbs to the temptation to commercialize the narrative, Kaufman incorporates those techniques into the script, including tropes such as an invented romance, a car chase, a drug-running sequence, and an imaginary identical twin for the protagonist. (The movie also features scenes about the making of \"Being John Malkovich\", previously written by Kaufman and directed by Jonze.) Robert Altman's satirical noir \"The Player\" about Hollywood ends with the antihero being pitched a movie version of his own story, complete with an unlikely happy ending.\n\nOccasionally a story within a story becomes such a popular element that the producer(s) decide to develop it autonomously as a separate and distinct work. This is an example of a spin-off.\n\nIn the fictional world of the \"Toy Story\" movies, Buzz Lightyear is an animated toy action figure, which was based on a fictitious cartoon series, \"Buzz Lightyear of Star Command\", which did not exist in the real world except for snippets seen within \"Toy Story\". Later, \"Buzz Lightyear of Star Command\" was produced in the real world.\n\n\"Kujibiki Unbalance\", a series in the \"Genshiken\" universe, has spawned merchandise of its own, and been remade into a series on its own.\n\nSuch spin-offs may be produced as a way of providing additional information on the fictional world for fans. In the \"Harry Potter\" series, three such supplemental books have been produced. \"Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them\" is a textbook used by the main character, and \"Quidditch Through the Ages\" is a book from the library at his school. \"The Tales of Beedle the Bard\" provides an additional layer of fiction, the 'tales' being instructional stories told to children in the characters' world.\n\nIn the works of Kurt Vonnegut, Kilgore Trout has written a novel called \"Venus on the Half-Shell\". In 1975 real-world author Philip José Farmer wrote a science-fiction novel called \"Venus on the Half-Shell\", published under the name Kilgore Trout.\n\nIn \"Homestuck\" by Andrew Hussie, there is a comic called Sweet Bro and Hella Jeff, created by one of the characters, Dave Strider. It was later adapted to its own ongoing series.\n\n\"Captain Proton: Defender of the Earth\", a story by Dean Wesley Smith, was adapted from the holonovel \"Captain Proton\" in the Star Trek universe.\n\nIn the animated online franchise \"Homestar Runner\" many of the best-known features were spun off from each other. The best known was \"Strong Bad Emails,\" which depicted the villain of the original story giving snarky answers to fan emails, but that in turn spawned several other long-running features which started out as figments of Strong Bad's imagination, including the teen-oriented cartoon parody \"Teen Girl Squad\" and the anime parody \"20X6.\"\n\nOne unique example is the Tyler Perry comedy/horror hit \"Boo! A Madea Halloween\" which originated as a parody of Tyler Perry films in the Chris Rock film \"Top 5\".\n\n"}
{"id": "192793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=192793", "title": "Thomas Nagel", "text": "Thomas Nagel\n\nThomas Nagel (; born July 4, 1937) is an American philosopher and University Professor of Philosophy and Law Emeritus at New York University, where he taught from 1980 to 2016. His main areas of philosophical interest are philosophy of mind, political philosophy and ethics.\n\nNagel is well known for his critique of material reductionist accounts of the mind, particularly in his essay \"What Is it Like to Be a Bat?\" (1974), and for his contributions to deontological and liberal moral and political theory in \"The Possibility of Altruism\" (1970) and subsequent writings. He continued the critique of reductionism in \"Mind and Cosmos\" (2012), in which he argues against the neo-Darwinian view of the emergence of consciousness.\n\nNagel was born in Belgrade, Yugoslavia (now Serbia), to German Jewish refugees Carolyn (Baer) and Walter Nagel. Nagel arrived in the US in 1939, and was raised in, and around New York. He received a BA in philosophy from Cornell University in 1958, where he was a member of the Telluride House and where he was introduced to the philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein. He then attended the University of Oxford on a Fulbright Scholarship and received a BPhil in 1960; while there, he studied with J. L. Austin, and H. Paul Grice. He received his PhD in philosophy from Harvard University in 1963. At Harvard, Nagel studied under John Rawls, whom Nagel later called \"the most important political philosopher of the twentieth century.\"\n\nNagel taught at the University of California, Berkeley (from 1963 to 1966) and at Princeton University (from 1966 to 1980), where he trained many well-known philosophers including Susan Wolf, Shelly Kagan, and Samuel Scheffler, the latter of whom is now his colleague at NYU.\n\nNagel is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Corresponding Fellow of the British Academy, and, in 2006, was elected as a member of the American Philosophical Society. He has held a fellowship from the Guggenheim Foundation, the National Science Foundation, and the National Endowment for the Humanities. In 2008, he was awarded a Rolf Schock Prize for his work in philosophy, the Balzan prize, and the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters from the University of Oxford.\n\nIn his work \"Mind and Cosmos\", he notes that he is an atheist, writing, \"I lack the \"sensus divinitatis\" that enablesindeed compelsso many people to see in the world the expression of divine purpose as naturally as they see in a smiling face the expression of human feeling.\"\n\nNagel began to publish philosophy at the age of twenty-two; his career now spans over fifty years of publication. Nagel thinks that each person, owing to his or her capacity to reason, instinctively seeks a unified world view. However, if this aspiration leads one to believe that there is only one way to understand our intellectual commitments, whether about the external world, knowledge, or what our practical and moral reasons ought to be, this leads one into error. For contingent, limited and finite creatures, no such unified world view is possible. That is because ways of understanding are not always better when they are more objective.\n\nLike the British philosopher Bernard Williams, Nagel believes that the rise of modern science has permanently changed how people think of the world and our place in it. A modern scientific understanding is one way of thinking about the world and our place in it that is more objective than the common sense view it replaces. It is more objective because it is less dependent on our peculiarities as the kinds of thinkers that people are. Our modern scientific understanding involves the mathematicized understanding of the world represented by modern physics. Understanding this beached out view of the world draws on our capacities as purely rational thinkers and fails to account for the specific nature of our perceptual sensibility. The way in which modern science and philosophy has drawn a distinction between the mathematically and structurally describable \"primary qualities\" of objects such as shape and solidity and those properties dependent on our sensory apparatus, \"secondary qualities\" such as taste and color, is a prime example that Nagel returns to repeatedly in his work.\n\nDespite what may seem like skepticism about the objective claims of science, Nagel does not dispute that science describes the world that exists independently of us. His contention, rather, is that a given way of understanding a subject matter should not be regarded as better simply for being more objective. He argues that the subjective viewpoint of scientific understanding, when applied to the mind, leaves out something essential and is fundamentally unable to help people fully understand themselves. In \"What Is it Like to Be a Bat?\" and elsewhere, he writes that science cannot describe what it is like \"to be\" a thinker who conceives of the world from a particular subjective perspective.\n\nNagel argues that some phenomena are not best grasped from a more objective perspective. The standpoint of the thinker does not present itself to him: he is that standpoint. One learns and uses mental concepts by being directly acquainted with one's own mind, whereas any attempt to think more objectively about mentality would abstract away from this fact. It would, of its nature, leave out what it is to be a thinker, and that, Nagel believes, would be a falsely objectifying view. Being a thinker is to have a subjective perspective on the world; if one abstracts away from this perspective one leaves out what he sought to explain.\n\nNagel thinks that philosophers over-impressed by the paradigm of the kind of objective understanding represented by modern science tend to produce theories of the mind that are falsely objectifying in precisely this kind of way. They are right to be impressed – modern science really is objective – but are wrong to take modern science to be the only paradigm of objectivity. The kind of understanding that science represents does not transfer to everything that people would like to understand.\n\nAs a philosophical rationalist, Nagel believes that a proper understanding of the place of mental properties in nature will involve a revolution in our understanding of both the physical and the mental, and that this is a reasonable prospect that people can anticipate in the near future. A plausible science of the mind will give an account of the stuff that underpins mental and physical properties in such a way that people will simply be able to see that it necessitates both of these aspects. Now, it seems to people that the mental and the physical are irreducibly distinct but that is not a metaphysical insight, or an acknowledgment of an irreducible explanatory gap, but simply where people are at their present stage of understanding.\n\nNagel's rationalism and tendency to present our human nature as a composite, structured around our capacity to reason, explains why he thinks that therapeutic or deflationary accounts of philosophy are simply complacent and that radical skepticism is, strictly speaking, irrefutable. The therapeutic or deflationary philosopher, influenced by the later philosophy of Ludwig Wittgenstein, reconciles people to the dependence of our worldview on our \"form of life\". Nagel accuses Wittgenstein and American philosopher of mind and language Donald Davidson of philosophical idealism. In both cases they ask people to take up an interpretative perspective to making sense of other speakers in the context of a shared, objective world. This, for Nagel, elevates contingent conditions of our make-up into criteria for that which is real. The result 'cuts the world down to size' and makes what there is dependent on what there can be interpreted to be. Nagel claims this is no better than more orthodox forms of idealism in which reality is claimed to be made up of mental items or claimed to be constitutively dependent on a form supplied by the mind.\n\nNagel is probably most widely known within the field of philosophy of mind as an advocate of the idea that consciousness and subjective experience cannot, at least with the contemporary understanding of physicalism, be satisfactorily explained using the current concepts of physics. This position was primarily discussed by Nagel in one of his most famous articles: \"What is it Like to Be a Bat?\" (1974). The article's title question, though often attributed to Nagel, was originally asked by Timothy M.B. Sprigge. The article was originally published in 1974 in \"The Philosophical Review\", and has been reprinted several times, including in \"The Mind's I\" (edited by Daniel Dennett and Douglas Hofstadter), \"Readings in the Philosophy of Psychology\" (edited by Ned Block), Nagel's \"Mortal Questions\" (1979), \"The Nature of Mind\" (edited by David M. Rosenthal), and \"\" (edited by David J. Chalmers).\n\nIn \"What is it Like to Be a Bat?\", Nagel argues that consciousness has essential to it a \"subjective character,\" a \"what it is like\" aspect. He states that \"an organism has conscious mental states if and only if there is something that it is like to \"be\" that organism—something it is like \"for\" the organism.\" His critics have objected strongly to what they see as a misguided attempt to argue from a fact about how one represents the world (trivially, one can only do so from his own point of view) to a false claim about the world, that it somehow has first personal perspectives built into it. On that understanding, Nagel is a conventional dualist about the physical and the mental. This is, however, a misunderstanding: Nagel's point is that there is a constraint on what it is to possess the concept of a mental state, namely, that one be directly acquainted with it. Concepts of mental states are only made available to a thinker who can be acquainted with his/her own states; clearly, the possession and use of physical concepts has no corresponding constraint.\n\nPart of the puzzlement here is because of the limitations of imagination: influenced by his Princeton colleague, Saul Kripke, Nagel believes that any type identity statement that identified a physical state type with a mental state type would be, if true, necessarily true. But Kripke argues that one can easily imagine a situation where, for example, one's C-fibres are stimulated but one is not in pain and so refute any such psychophysical identity from the armchair. (A parallel argument does not hold for genuine theoretical identities.) This argument that there will always be an explanatory gap between an identification of a state in mental and physical terms is compounded, Nagel argues, by the fact that imagination operates in two distinct ways. When asked to imagine \"sensorily\", one imagines C-fibres being stimulated; if asked to imagine \"sympathetically\", one puts oneself in a conscious state resembling pain. These two ways of imagining the two terms of the identity statement are so different that there will always seem to be an explanatory gap, whether or not this is the case. (Some philosophers of mind have taken these arguments as helpful for physicalism on the grounds that it exposes a limitation that makes the existence of an explanatory gap seem compelling, while others have argued that this makes the case for physicalism even more impossible as it cannot be defended even in principle.)\n\nNagel is not a physicalist because he does not believe that an internal understanding of mental concepts shows them to have the kind of hidden essence that underpins a scientific identity in, say, chemistry. But his skepticism is about current physics: he envisages in his most recent work that people may be close to a scientific breakthrough in identifying an underlying essence that is neither physical (as people currently think of the physical), nor functional, nor mental, but such that it necessitates all three of these ways in which the mind \"appears\" to us. The difference between the kind of explanation he rejects and those that he accepts depends on his understanding of transparency: from his earliest paper to his most recent Nagel has always insisted that a prior context is required to make identity statements plausible, intelligible and transparent.\n\nIn his 2012 book \"Mind and Cosmos\", Nagel argues against a materialist view of the emergence of life and consciousness, writing that the standard neo-Darwinian view flies in the face of common sense. He writes that mind is a basic aspect of nature, and that any philosophy of nature that cannot account for it is fundamentally misguided. He argues that the principles that account for the emergence of life may be teleological, rather than materialist or mechanistic. Despite Nagel's being an atheist and not a proponent of intelligent design (ID), his book was \"praised by creationists\", according to the \"New York Times\". Nagel writes in \"Mind and Cosmos\" that he disagrees with both ID defenders and their opponents, who argue that the only naturalistic alternative to ID is the current reductionist neo-Darwinian model.\n\nNagel has argued that ID should not be rejected as non-scientific, for instance writing in 2008 that \"ID is very different from creation science,\" and that the debate about ID \"is clearly a scientific disagreement, not a disagreement between science and something else.\" In 2009, he recommended \"Signature in the Cell\" by the philosopher and ID proponent Stephen C. Meyer in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" as one of his \"Best Books of the Year.\" Nagel does not accept Meyer's conclusions but he endorsed Meyer's approach, and argued in \"Mind and Cosmos\" that Meyer and other ID proponents, David Berlinski and Michael Behe, \"do not deserve the scorn with which they are commonly met.\"\n\nSteven Pinker and Daniel Dennett both dismissed the book.\n\nNagel has been highly influential in the related fields of moral and political philosophy. Supervised by John Rawls, Nagel has been a long-standing proponent of a Kantian and rationalist approach to moral philosophy. His distinctive ideas were first presented in the short monograph \"The Possibility of Altruism,\" published in 1970. That book seeks by reflection on the nature of practical reasoning to uncover the formal principles that underlie reason in practice and the related general beliefs about the self that are necessary for those principles to be truly applicable to us. Nagel defends motivated desire theory about the motivation of moral action. According to motivated desire theory, when a person is motivated to moral action it is indeed true that such actions are motivated – like all intentional actions – by a belief and a desire. But it is important to get the justificatory relations right: when a person accepts a moral judgment he or she is necessarily motivated to act. But it is the reason that does the justificatory work of justifying both the action and the desire. Nagel contrasts this view with a rival view which believes that a moral agent can only accept that he or she has a reason to act if the desire to carry out the action has an independent justification. An account based on presupposing sympathy would be of this kind.\n\nThe most striking claim of the book is that there is a very close parallel between prudential reasoning in one's own interests and moral reasons to act to further the interests of another person. When one reasons prudentially, for example about the future reasons that one will have, one allows the reason in the future to justify one's current action without reference to the strength of one's current desires. If a hurricane were to destroy someone's car next year at that point he will want his insurance company to pay him to replace it: that future reason gives him a reason, now, to take out insurance. The strength of the reason ought not to be hostage to the strength of one's current desires. The denial of this view of prudence, Nagel argues, means that one does not really believe that one is one and the same person through time. One is dissolving oneself into distinct person-stages.\n\nThis is the basis of his analogy between prudential actions and moral actions: in cases of altruistic action for another person's good that person's reasons quite literally become reasons for one if they are timeless and intrinsic reasons. Genuine reasons are reasons for anyone. Comparable to the views of the nineteenth century moral philosopher Henry Sidgwick, Nagel believes that one needs to conceive of one's good as an impersonal good and one's reasons as objective reasons. That means, practically, that a timeless and intrinsic value generates reasons for anyone. A person who denies the truth of this claim is committed, as in the case of a similar mistake about prudence, to a false view of him or herself. In this case the false view is that one's reasons are irreducibly his, in a way that does not allow them to be reasons for anyone: Nagel argues this commits such a person to the view that he or she cannot make the same judgments about her own reasons third-personally that she can make first-personally. Nagel calls this \"dissociation\" and considers it a practical analogue of solipsism (the philosophical idea that only one's own mind is sure to exist). Once again, a false view of what is involved in reasoning properly is refuted by showing that it leads to a false view of the nature of people.\n\nNagel's later work on ethics ceases to place as much weight on the distinction between a person's personal or \"subjective\" reasons and his or her \"objective\" reasons. Earlier, in \"The Possibility of Altruism,\" he took the stance that if one's reasons really are about intrinsic and timeless values then, \"qua\" subjective reason, one can only take them to be the guise of the reasons that there really are – the objective ones. In later discussions, Nagel treats his former view as an incomplete attempt to convey the fact that there are distinct classes of reasons and values, and speaks instead of \"agent-relative\" and \"agent-neutral\" reasons. In the case of agent-relative reasons (the successor to subjective reasons) specifying the content of the reason makes essential reference back to the agent for whom it is a reason. An example of this might be: \"Anyone has a reason to honor his or her parents.\" By contrast, in the case of agent-neutral reasons (the successor to objective reasons) specifying the content of the reason does not make any essential reference back to the person for whom it is a reason. An example of this might be: \"Anyone has a reason to promote the good of parenthood.\"\n\nThe different classes of reasons and values (i.e., agent-relative and agent-neutral) emphasized in Nagel's later work are situated within a Sidgwickian model in which one's moral commitments are thought of objectively, such that one's personal reasons and values are simply incomplete parts of an impersonal whole. The structure of Nagel's later ethical view is that all reasons must be brought into relation to this objective view of oneself. Those reasons and values that withstand detached critical scrutiny are objective, but more subjective reasons and values can nevertheless be objectively tolerated. However, the most striking part of the earlier argument and of Sidgwick's view is preserved: agent-neutral reasons are literally reasons for anyone, so all objectifiable reasons become individually possessed no matter whose they are. Thinking reflectively about ethics from this standpoint, one must take every other agent's standpoint on value as seriously as one's own, since one's own perspective is just a subjective take on an inter-subjective whole; one's personal set of reasons is thus swamped by the objective reasons of all others.\n\nThis is similar to \"world agent\" consequentialist views in which one takes up the standpoint of a collective subject whose reasons are those of everyone. But Nagel remains an individualist who believes in the separateness of persons so his task is to explain why this objective viewpoint does not swallow up the individual standpoint of each of us. He provides an extended rationale for the importance to people of their personal point of view. The result is a hybrid ethical theory of the kind defended by Nagel's Princeton PhD student Samuel Scheffler in \"The Rejection of Consequentialism\". The objective standpoint and its demands have to be balanced with the subjective personal point of view of each person and its demands. One can always be maximally objective but one does not have to be. One can legitimately \"cap\" the demands placed on him by the objective reasons of others. In addition, in his later work, Nagel finds a rationale for so-called deontic constraints in a way Scheffler could not. Following Warren Quinn and Frances Kamm, Nagel grounds them on the inviolability of persons.\n\nThe extent to which one can lead a good life as an individual while respecting the demands of others leads inevitably to political philosophy. In the Locke lectures published as the book \"Equality and Partiality\", Nagel exposes John Rawls's theory of justice to detailed scrutiny. Once again, Nagel places such weight on the objective point of view and its requirements that he finds Rawls's view of liberal equality not demanding enough. Rawls's aim to redress, not remove, the inequalities that arise from class and talent seems to Nagel to lead to a view that does not sufficiently respect the needs of others. He recommends a gradual move to much more demanding conceptions of equality, motivated by the special nature of political responsibility. Normally people draw a distinction between that which people do and that which people fail to bring about. But this thesis, true of individuals, does not apply to the state, which is a collective agent. A Rawlsian state permits intolerable inequalities and people need to develop a more ambitious view of equality to do justice to the demands of the objective recognition of the reasons of others. For Nagel, honoring the objective point of view demands nothing less.\n\nNagel has said that \"\"There are elements [of living] which, if added to one's experience, make life better; there are other elements which if added to one's experience, make life worse. But what remains when these are set aside is not merely neutral: it is emphatically positive.\"\n\nNagel received the 1996 PEN/Diamonstein-Spielvogel Award for the Art of the Essay for \"Other Minds\" (1995). He has also been awarded the Balzan Prize in Moral Philosophy (2008), the Rolf Schock Prize in Logic and Philosophy of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences (2008) and the Distinguished Achievement Award of the Mellon Foundation (2006).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40758290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40758290", "title": "Truth-apt", "text": "Truth-apt\n\nIn philosophy, to say that a statement is truth-apt is to say that it could be uttered in some context (without its meaning being altered) and would then express a true or false proposition. \n\nTruth-apt sentences are capable of being true or false, unlike questions or commands. Whether paradoxical sentences, prescriptions (especially moral claims), or attitudes are truth-apt is sometimes controversial.\n\n"}
{"id": "54432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54432", "title": "Unification (computer science)", "text": "Unification (computer science)\n\nIn logic and computer science, unification is an algorithmic process of solving equations between symbolic expressions.\n\nDepending on which expressions (also called \"terms\") are allowed to occur in an equation set (also called \"unification problem\"), and which expressions are considered equal, several frameworks of unification are distinguished. If higher-order variables, that is, variables representing functions, are allowed in an expression, the process is called higher-order unification, otherwise first-order unification. If a solution is required to make both sides of each equation literally equal, the process is called syntactic or free unification, otherwise semantic or equational unification, or E-unification, or unification modulo theory.\n\nA \"solution\" of a unification problem is denoted as a substitution, that is, a mapping assigning a symbolic value to each variable of the problem's expressions. A unification algorithm should compute for a given problem a \"complete\", and \"minimal\" substitution set, that is, a set covering all its solutions, and containing no redundant members. Depending on the framework, a complete and minimal substitution set may have at most one, at most finitely many, or possibly infinitely many members, or may not exist at all. In some frameworks it is generally impossible to decide whether any solution exists. For first-order syntactical unification, Martelli and Montanari gave an algorithm that reports unsolvability or computes a complete and minimal singleton substitution set containing the so-called most general unifier.\n\nFor example, using \"x\",\"y\",\"z\" as variables, the singleton equation set { \"cons\"(\"x\",\"cons\"(\"x\",\"nil\")) = \"cons\"(2,\"y\") } is a syntactic first-order unification problem that has the substitution { \"x\" ↦ 2, \"y\" ↦ \"cons\"(2,\"nil\") } as its only solution.\nThe syntactic first-order unification problem { \"y\" = \"cons\"(2,\"y\") } has no solution over the set of finite terms; however, it has the single solution { \"y\" ↦ \"cons\"(2,\"cons\"(2,\"cons\"(2...))) } over the set of infinite trees.\nThe semantic first-order unification problem { \"a\"⋅\"x\" = \"x\"⋅\"a\" } has each substitution of the form { \"x\" ↦ \"a\"⋅...⋅\"a\" } as a solution in a semigroup, i.e. if (⋅) is considered associative; the same problem, viewed in an abelian group, where (⋅) is considered also commutative, has any substitution at all as a solution.\nThe singleton set { \"a\" = \"y\"(\"x\") } is a syntactic second-order unification problem, since \"y\" is a function variable.\nOne solution is { \"x\" ↦ \"a\", \"y\" ↦ (identity function) }; another one is { \"y\" ↦ (constant function mapping each value to \"a\"), \"x\" ↦ \"(any value)\" }.\n\nThe first formal investigation of unification can be attributed to John Alan Robinson, who used first-order syntactical unification as a basic building block of his resolution procedure for first-order logic, a great step forward in automated reasoning technology, as it eliminated one source of combinatorial explosion: searching for instantiation of terms. Today, automated reasoning is still the main application area of unification.\nSyntactical first-order unification is used in logic programming and programming language type system implementation, especially in Hindley–Milner based type inference algorithms.\nSemantic unification is used in SMT solvers, term rewriting algorithms and cryptographic protocol analysis.\nHigher-order unification is used in proof assistants, for example Isabelle and Twelf, and restricted forms of higher-order unification (higher-order pattern unification) are used in some programming language implementations, such as lambdaProlog, as higher-order patterns are expressive, yet their associated unification procedure retains theoretical properties closer to first-order unification.\n\nFormally, a unification approach presupposes\n\nGiven a set formula_1 of variable symbols, a set formula_23 of constant symbols and sets formula_24 of \"n\"-ary function symbols, also called operator symbols, for each natural number formula_25, the set of (unsorted first-order) terms formula_3 is recursively defined to be the smallest set with the following properties:\nFor example, if formula_32 is a variable symbol, formula_33 is a constant symbol, and formula_34 is a binary function symbol, then formula_35, and (hence) formula_36 by the first, second, and third term building rule, respectively. The latter term is usually written as formula_37, using infix notation and the more common operator symbol + for convenience.\n\nA substitution is a mapping formula_38 from variables to terms; the notation formula_39 refers to a substitution mapping each variable formula_40 to the term formula_41, for formula_42, and every other variable to itself. Applying that substitution to a term formula_8 is written in postfix notation as formula_44; it means to (simultaneously) replace every occurrence of each variable formula_40 in the term formula_8 by formula_41. The result formula_48 of applying a substitution formula_49 to a term formula_8 is called an instance of that term formula_8.\nAs a first-order example, applying the substitution to the term \n\nIf a term formula_8 has an instance equivalent to a term formula_15, that is, if formula_54 for some substitution formula_55, then formula_8 is called more general than formula_15, and formula_15 is called more special than, or subsumed by, formula_8. For example, formula_60 is more general than formula_61 if ⊕ is commutative, since then formula_62.\n\nIf ≡ is literal (syntactic) identity of terms, a term may be both more general and more special than another one only if both terms differ just in their variable names, not in their syntactic structure; such terms are called variants, or renamings of each other.\nFor example, \nformula_63\nis a variant of \nformula_64,\nsince \n\nand \n\nHowever, formula_63 is \"not\" a variant of formula_66, since no substitution can transform the latter term into the former one.\nThe latter term is therefore properly more special than the former one.\n\nFor arbitrary formula_11, a term may be both more general and more special than a structurally different term.\nFor example, if ⊕ is idempotent, that is, if always formula_68, then the term formula_69 is more general than formula_70, and vice versa, although formula_69 and formula_70 are of different structure.\n\nA substitution formula_55 is more special than, or subsumed by, a substitution formula_49 if formula_75 is more special than formula_48 for each term formula_8. We also say that formula_49 is more general than formula_55.\nFor instance formula_80 is more special than formula_81,\nbut \nformula_82 is not,\nas formula_83 is not more special than\nformula_84.\n\nA unification problem is a finite set of potential equations, where .\nA substitution σ is a solution of that problem if for formula_85. Such a substitution is also called a unifier of the unification problem.\nFor example, if ⊕ is associative, the unification problem { \"x\" ⊕ \"a\" ≐ \"a\" ⊕ \"x\" } has the solutions {\"x\" ↦ \"a\"}, {\"x\" ↦ \"a\" ⊕ \"a\"}, {\"x\" ↦ \"a\" ⊕ \"a\" ⊕ \"a\"}, etc., while the problem { \"x\" ⊕ \"a\" ≐ \"a\" } has no solution.\n\nFor a given unification problem, a set \"S\" of unifiers is called complete if each solution substitution is subsumed by some substitution σ ∈ \"S\"; the set \"S\" is called minimal if none of its members subsumes another one.\n\n\"Syntactic unification of first-order terms\" is the most widely used unification framework.\nIt is based on \"T\" being the set of \"first-order terms\" (over some given set \"V\" of variables, \"C\" of constants and \"F\" of \"n\"-ary function symbols) and on ≡ being \"syntactic equality\".\nIn this framework, each solvable unification problem has a complete, and obviously minimal, singleton solution set .\nIts member is called the most general unifier (mgu) of the problem.\nThe terms on the left and the right hand side of each potential equation become syntactically equal when the mgu is applied i.e. .\nAny unifier of the problem is subsumed by the mgu .\nThe mgu is unique up to variants: if \"S\" and \"S\" are both complete and minimal solution sets of the same syntactical unification problem, then \"S\" = { \"σ\" } and \"S\" = { \"σ\" } for some substitutions and and is a variant of for each variable \"x\" occurring in the problem.\n\nFor example, the unification problem { \"x\" ≐ \"z\", \"y\" ≐ \"f\"(\"x\") } has a unifier { \"x\" ↦ \"z\", \"y\" ↦ \"f\"(\"z\") }, because\n\nThis is also the most general unifier.\nOther unifiers for the same problem are e.g. { \"x\" ↦ \"f\"(\"x\"), \"y\" ↦ \"f\"(\"f\"(\"x\")), \"z\" ↦ \"f\"(\"x\") }, { \"x\" ↦ \"f\"(\"f\"(\"x\")), \"y\" ↦ \"f\"(\"f\"(\"f\"(\"x\"))), \"z\" ↦ \"f\"(\"f\"(\"x\")) }, and so on; there are infinitely many similar unifiers.\n\nAs another example, the problem \"g\"(\"x\",\"x\") ≐ \"f\"(\"y\") has no solution with respect to ≡ being literal identity, since any substitution applied to the left and right hand side will keep the outermost \"g\" and \"f\", respectively, and terms with different outermost function symbols are syntactically different.\n\nThe first algorithm given by Robinson (1965) was rather inefficient; cf. box.\nThe following faster algorithm originated from Martelli, Montanari (1982).\nThis paper also lists preceding attempts to find an efficient syntactical unification algorithm, and states that linear-time algorithms were discovered independently by Martelli, Montanari (1976) and Paterson, Wegman (1978).\n\nGiven a finite set formula_86 of potential equations,\nthe algorithm applies rules to transform it to an equivalent set of equations of the form\nwhere \"x\", ..., \"x\" are distinct variables and \"u\", ..., \"u\" are terms containing none of the \"x\".\nA set of this form can be read as a substitution.\nIf there is no solution the algorithm terminates with ⊥; other authors use \"Ω\", \"{}\", or \"fail\" in that case.\nThe operation of substituting all occurrences of variable \"x\" in problem \"G\" with term \"t\" is denoted \"G\" {\"x\" ↦ \"t\"}.\nFor simplicity, constant symbols are regarded as function symbols having zero arguments.\n\nAn attempt to unify a variable \"x\" with a term containing \"x\" as a strict subterm \"x\" ≐ \"f\"(..., \"x\", ...) would lead to an infinite term as solution for \"x\", since \"x\" would occur as a subterm of itself.\nIn the set of (finite) first-order terms as defined above, the equation \"x\" ≐ \"f\"(..., \"x\", ...) has no solution; hence the \"eliminate\" rule may only be applied if \"x\" ∉ \"vars\"(\"t\").\nSince that additional check, called \"occurs check\", slows down the algorithm, it is omitted e.g. in most Prolog systems.\nFrom a theoretical point of view, omitting the check amounts to solving equations over infinite trees, see below.\n\nFor the proof of termination of the algorithm consider a triple formula_87\nwhere is the number of variables that occur more than once in the equation set, is the number of function symbols and constants\non the left hand sides of potential equations, and is the number of equations.\nWhen rule \"eliminate\" is applied, decreases, since \"x\" is eliminated from \"G\" and kept only in { \"x\" ≐ \"t\" }.\nApplying any other rule can never increase again.\nWhen rule \"decompose\", \"conflict\", or \"swap\" is applied, decreases, since at least the left hand side's outermost \"f\" disappears.\nApplying any of the remaining rules \"delete\" or \"check\" can't increase , but decreases .\nHence, any rule application decreases the triple formula_87 with respect to the lexicographical order, which is possible only a finite number of times.\n\nConor McBride observes that “by expressing the structure which unification exploits” in a dependently typed language such as Epigram, Robinson's algorithm can be made recursive on the number of variables, in which case a separate termination proof becomes unnecessary.\n\nIn the Prolog syntactical convention a symbol starting with an upper case letter is a variable name; a symbol that starts with a lowercase letter is a function symbol; the comma is used as the logical \"and\" operator.\nFor mathematical notation, \"x,y,z\" are used as variables, \"f,g\" as function symbols, and \"a,b\" as constants.\n\nThe most general unifier of a syntactic first-order unification problem of size may have a size of . For example, the problem has the most general unifier , cf. picture. In order to avoid exponential time complexity caused by such blow-up, advanced unification algorithms work on directed acyclic graphs (dags) rather than trees.\n\nThe concept of unification is one of the main ideas behind logic programming, best known through the language Prolog. It represents the mechanism of binding the contents of variables and can be viewed as a kind of one-time assignment. In Prolog, this operation is denoted by the equality symbol codice_1, but is also done when instantiating variables (see below). It is also used in other languages by the use of the equality symbol codice_1, but also in conjunction with many operations including codice_3, codice_4, codice_5, codice_6. Type inference algorithms are typically based on unification.\n\nIn Prolog:\n\nUnification is used during type inference, for instance in the functional programming language Haskell. On one hand, the programmer does not need to provide type information for every function, on the other hand it is used to detect typing errors. The Haskell expression codice_7 is not correctly typed. The list construction function codice_8 is of type codice_9, and for the first argument codice_10 the polymorphic type variable codice_11 has to be unified with codice_10's type, codice_13. The second argument, codice_14, is of type codice_15, but codice_11 cannot be both codice_13 and codice_18 at the same time.\n\nLike for Prolog, an algorithm for type inference can be given:\n\n\nDue to its declarative nature, the order in a sequence of unifications is (usually) unimportant.\n\nNote that in the terminology of first-order logic, an atom is a basic proposition and is unified similarly to a Prolog term.\n\n\"Order-sorted logic\" allows one to assign a \"sort\", or \"type\", to each term, and to declare a sort \"s\" a \"subsort\" of another sort \"s\", commonly written as \"s\" ⊆ \"s\". For example, when reаsoning about biological creatures, it is useful to declare a sort \"dog\" to be a subsort of a sort \"animal\". Wherever a term of some sort \"s\" is required, a term of any subsort of \"s\" may be supplied instead.\nFor example, assuming a function declaration \"mother\": \"animal\" → \"animal\", and a constant declaration \"lassie\": \"dog\", the term \"mother\"(\"lassie\") is perfectly valid and has the sort \"animal\". In order to supply the information that the mother of a dog is a dog in turn, another declaration \"mother\": \"dog\" → \"dog\" may be issued; this is called \"function overloading\", similar to overloading in programming languages.\n\nWalther gave a unification algorithm for terms in order-sorted logic, requiring for any two declared sorts \"s\", \"s\" their intersection \"s\" ∩ \"s\" to be declared, too: if \"x\" and \"x\" is a variable of sort \"s\" and \"s\", respectively, the equation \"x\" ≐ \"x\" has the solution { \"x\" = \"x\", \"x\" = \"x\" }, where \"x\": \"s\" ∩ \"s\".\n\nAfter incorporating this algorithm into a clause-based automated theorem prover, he could solve a benchmark problem by translating it into order-sorted logic, thereby boiling it down an order of magnitude, as many unary predicates turned into sorts.\n\nSmolka generalized order-sorted logic to allow for parametric polymorphism.\n\nIn his framework, subsort declarations are propagated to complex type expressions.\nAs a programming example, a parametric sort \"list\"(\"X\") may be declared (with \"X\" being a type parameter as in a C++ template), and from a subsort declaration \"int\" ⊆ \"float\" the relation \"list\"(\"int\") ⊆ \"list\"(\"float\") is automatically inferred, meaning that each list of integers is also a list of floats.\n\nSchmidt-Schauß generalized order-sorted logic to allow for term declarations.\n\nAs an example, assuming subsort declarations \"even\" ⊆ \"int\" and \"odd\" ⊆ \"int\", a term declaration like ∀ \"i\" : \"int\". (\"i\" + \"i\") : \"even\" allows to declare a property of integer addition that could not be expressed by ordinary overloading.\n\nBackground on infinite trees:\n\nUnification algorithm, Prolog II:\n\nApplications:\n\nE-unification is the problem of finding solutions to a given set of equations,\ntaking into account some equational background knowledge \"E\".\nThe latter is given as a set of universal equalities.\nFor some particular sets \"E\", equation solving algorithms (a.k.a. \"E-unification algorithms\") have been devised;\nfor others it has been proven that no such algorithms can exist.\n\nFor example, if and are distinct constants,\nthe equation has no solution\nwith respect to purely syntactic unification,\nwhere nothing is known about the operator .\nHowever, if the is known to be commutative,\nthen the substitution solves the above equation,\nsince\nThe background knowledge \"E\" could state the commutativity of by the universal equality\n\" for all \".\n\nIt is said that \"unification is decidable\" for a theory, if a unification algorithm has been devised for it that terminates for \"any\" input problem.\nIt is said that \"unification is semi-decidable\" for a theory, if a unification algorithm has been devised for it that terminates for any \"solvable\" input problem, but may keep searching forever for solutions of an unsolvable input problem.\n\nUnification is decidable for the following theories:\n\nUnification is semi-decidable for the following theories:\n\nIf there is a convergent term rewriting system \"R\" available for \"E\",\nthe one-sided paramodulation algorithm\ncan be used to enumerate all solutions of given equations.\n\nStarting with \"G\" being the unification problem to be solved and \"S\" being the identity substitution, rules are applied nondeterministically until the empty set appears as the actual \"G\", in which case the actual \"S\" is a unifying substitution. Depending on the order the paramodulation rules are applied, on the choice of the actual equation from \"G\", and on the choice of \"R\"’s rules in \"mutate\", different computations paths are possible. Only some lead to a solution, while others end at a \"G\" ≠ {} where no further rule is applicable (e.g. \"G\" = { \"f\"(...) ≐ \"g\"(...) }).\n\nFor an example, a term rewrite system \"R\" is used defining the \"append\" operator of lists built from \"cons\" and \"nil\"; where \"cons\"(\"x\",\"y\") is written in infix notation as \"x\".\"y\" for brevity; e.g. \"app\"(\"a\".\"b\".\"nil\",\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\") → \"a\".\"app\"(\"b\".\"nil\",\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\") → \"a\".\"b\".\"app\"(\"nil\",\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\") → \"a\".\"b\".\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\" demonstrates the concatenation of the lists \"a\".\"b\".\"nil\" and \"c\".\"d\".\"nil\", employing the rewrite rule 2,2, and 1. The equational theory \"E\" corresponding to \"R\" is the congruence closure of \"R\", both viewed as binary relations on terms.\nFor example, \"app\"(\"a\".\"b\".\"nil\",\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\") ≡ \"a\".\"b\".\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\" ≡ \"app\"(\"a\".\"b\".\"c\".\"d\".\"nil\",\"nil\"). The paramodulation algorithm enumerates solutions to equations with respect to that \"E\" when fed with the example \"R\".\n\nA successful example computation path for the unification problem { \"app\"(\"x\",\"app\"(\"y\",\"x\")) ≐ \"a\".\"a\".\"nil\" } is shown below. To avoid variable name clashes, rewrite rules are consistently renamed each time before their use by rule \"mutate\"; \"v\", \"v\", ... are computer-generated variable names for this purpose. In each line, the chosen equation from \"G\" is highlighted in red. Each time the \"mutate\" rule is applied, the chosen rewrite rule (\"1\" or \"2\") is indicated in parentheses. From the last line, the unifying substitution \"S\" = { \"y\" ↦ \"nil\", \"x\" ↦ \"a\".\"nil\" } can be obtained. In fact,\n\"app\"(\"x\",\"app\"(\"y\",\"x\")) {\"y\"↦\"nil\", \"x\"↦ \"a\".\"nil\" } = \"app\"(\"a\".\"nil\",\"app\"(\"nil\",\"a\".\"nil\")) ≡ \"app\"(\"a\".\"nil\",\"a\".\"nil\") ≡ \"a\".\"app\"(\"nil\",\"a\".\"nil\") ≡ \"a\".\"a\".\"nil\" solves the given problem.\nA second successful computation path, obtainable by choosing \"mutate(1), mutate(2), mutate(2), mutate(1)\" leads to the substitution \"S\" = { \"y\" ↦ \"a\".\"a\".\"nil\", \"x\" ↦ \"nil\" }; it is not shown here. No other path leads to a success.\n\nIf \"R\" is a convergent term rewriting system for \"E\",\nan approach alternative to the previous section consists in successive application of \"narrowing steps\";\nthis will eventually enumerate all solutions of a given equation.\nA narrowing step (cf. picture) consists in\nFormally, if is a renamed copy of a rewrite rule from \"R\", having no variables in common with a term \"s\", and the subterm is not a variable and is unifiable with via the mgu , then can be narrowed to the term , i.e. to the term , with the subterm at \"p\" replaced by . The situation that \"s\" can be narrowed to \"t\" is commonly denoted as \"s\" ~› \"t\".\nIntuitively, a sequence of narrowing steps \"t\" ~› \"t\" ~› ... ~› \"t\" can be thought of as a sequence of rewrite steps \"t\" → \"t\" → ... → \"t\", but with the initial term \"t\" being further and further instantiated, as necessary to make each of the used rules applicable.\n\nThe above example paramodulation computation corresponds to the following narrowing sequence (\"↓\" indicating instantiation here):\n\nThe last term, \"v\".\"v\".\"nil\" can be syntactically unified with the original right hand side term \"a\".\"a\".\"nil\".\n\nThe \"narrowing lemma\" ensures that whenever an instance of a term \"s\" can be rewritten to a term \"t\" by a convergent term rewriting system, then \"s\" and \"t\" can be narrowed and rewritten to a term and , respectively, such that is an instance of .\n\nFormally: whenever holds for some substitution σ, then there exist terms such that and and for some substitution τ.\n\nMany applications require one to consider the unification of typed lambda-terms instead of first-order terms. Such unification is often called \"higher-order unification\". A well studied branch of higher-order unification is the problem of unifying simply typed lambda terms modulo the equality determined by αβη conversions. Such unification problems do not have most general unifiers. While higher-order unification is undecidable, Gérard Huet gave a semi-decidable (pre-)unification algorithm that allows a systematic search of the space of unifiers (generalizing the unification algorithm of Martelli-Montanari with rules for terms containing higher-order variables) that seems to work sufficiently well in practice. Huet and Gilles Dowek have written articles surveying this topic.\n\nDale Miller has described what is now called \"higher-order pattern unification\". This subset of higher-order unification is decidable and solvable unification problems have most-general unifiers. Many computer systems that contain higher-order unification, such as the higher-order logic programming languages λProlog and Twelf, often implement only the pattern fragment and not full higher-order unification.\n\nIn computational linguistics, one of the most influential theories of ellipsis is that ellipses are represented by free variables whose values are then determined using Higher-Order Unification (HOU). For instance, the semantic representation of \"Jon likes Mary and Peter does too\" is and the value of R (the semantic representation of the ellipsis) is determined by the equation . The process of solving such equations is called Higher-Order Unification.\n\nFor example, the unification problem { \"f\"(\"a\", \"b\", \"a\") ≐ \"d\"(\"b\", \"a\", \"c\") }, where the only variable is \"f\", has the\nsolutions {\"f\" ↦ λ\"x\".λ\"y\".λ\"z\".\"d\"(\"y\", \"x\", \"c\") }, {\"f\" ↦ λ\"x\".λ\"y\".λ\"z\".\"d\"(\"y\", \"z\", \"c\") },\n\nWayne Snyder gave a generalization of both higher-order unification and E-unification, i.e. an algorithm to unify lambda-terms modulo an equational theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18055330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18055330", "title": "Victimisation", "text": "Victimisation\n\nVictimisation (or victimization) is the process of being victimised or becoming a victim. The field that studies the process, rates, incidence, effects, and prevalence of victimisation is called victimology.\n\nPeer victimisation is the experience among children of being a target of the aggressive behaviour of other children, who are not siblings and not necessarily age-mates.\n\nSecondary victimization (also known as post crime victimization or double victimization ) refers to further victim-blaming from criminal justice authorities following a report of an original victimization. Rates of victimization are high, with an estimated 5.7 million individuals experiencing at least one victimization in 2016. Considering these are cases of criminal offenses, the reported rates of violent victimization are disproportionately low. Less than half (42%) report any violent crime of threatened or real force, such as physical assault, battery, or weapons offenses. Additionally, under a quarter (23%) report rape, childhood, or sexual assault to the police. Further, out of the portion that does report sexual assault or rape, about half describe the experience as upsetting, frustrating, and useless. Despite efforts to increase criminal reports of victimization, authorities and law enforcement personnel often discount individuals’ violent experiences and fail to attend to both the necessary legal actions and interpersonal actions. \n\nWhen institutions or criminal justice system personnel fail to support the victimized individual, victims are vulnerable to secondary victimization. While the appropriate and legal way to respond to primary victimization is to report the event, authorities often deny, do not believe, or blame the victim (Campbell & Raja, 1999; Campbell & Raja, 2005). In turn, up to 90% of victims report experiencing negative social reaction and attribute the incident as a “second rape” or “second assault” . \n\nResearch suggests that victim of sexual violence or assault are the least likely to receive support or resources following reporting. This may be due to perceived lack of evidence, social stigma, and overall discomfort when dealing with sexual incidences. In a study of rape victims undergoing prosecution for their assault, those who felt their detectives responded empathetically and with understanding were likelier to pursue prosecution, felt their experiences were important, and their cases deserved to be heard. Empathetic and supportive responses from authorities could potentially improve mental and physical health in rape survivors and additionally, improve reporting rates and lessen judgmental attitudes from the criminal justice system. Because sexual violence is a sensitive subject for all parties, criminal justice personnel may avoid, ignore, or publicly misconstrue their opinions about the situation as an effort to separate themselves or cope with dangerous and uncomfortable situations. Studies suggest these misconceptions by the system may further damage individuals’ mental health and a safer world. This could be combatted with accepting, non-accusatory perspectives, aiding in accuracy the sexual violence reports. Several authors speculate authorities’ supportive approach benefits the victim and promotes a just world. In this way, previous victims might report and seek appropriate resources in the future.\n\nThose exposed to traumatic victimization are vulnerable to experiencing secondary victimization. If social needs such as empathy, support, and understanding are not met, individuals are prone to this phenomenon. While anybody who has experienced victimization is susceptible to secondary victimization, prevalence rates are significantly elevated for some populations. This includes females, children, racial and sexual minorities, and those sexually assaulted by an acquaintance or stranger. Moreover, those experiencing a certain type of violence are at increased likelihood to experience secondary victimization. These include physical assault, sexual assault, and domestic violence Notably, rape victims are at highest risk of secondary victimization from the criminal justice system, with about half who report describing the process as distressing. \n\nAs a consequence of social rejections and insensitivities to acknowledging trauma or violence, individuals are increasingly apt to continue not reporting. This can be detrimental to victims’ mental health, as sexual violence often happens more than once and not reporting violence helps to maintain a repeated cycle of abuse. Experiencing violence is associated with negative mental and physical outcomes, including shame, emotion dysregulation, psychological stress, loss of resources, and mental health pathology. In a meta-analysis about sexual assault victimization and psychopathology, there was a medium-sized effect overall effect size was moderate after accounting for several mental health diagnoses including depression, anxiety, suicidality, disordered eating, and substance abuse. This indicates that sexual assault victimization is significantly related to mental health distress even after controlling for other associated symptoms. Additionally, women who experience secondary victimization are likelier to have both adverse physical health and mental health implications and are also unlikely to seek services and treatment. Given these individuals are likely in a troubled state, pressures of reporting are cognitively taxing. To report crime, especially sexual crimes, implicates a further level of vulnerability. When victims are met with hostile reactions, they are reinforced to not report. This is not only harmful to the individual, but to society, in that perpetrators are thus permitted to continue committing crimes and abuse. As a consequence of victim-blaming and other negative attitudes towards victims, reported rates of criminal abuse are low and distress in victims is high. \n\nDespite high rates of secondary victimization, reporting rates are low. It is not unusual for criminal justice personnel to discourage victims from prosecuting their sexual assault cases due to victim-blaming behaviors and discounting victims’ traumatic experiences. One incident that attracts much controversy in the criminal justice system is reporting violent crimes on one’s intimate partner. Women who report rape by an intimate partner are seen as less credible by the system and law enforcement are more likely to encourage dropping the case. Societal standards of obeying an intimate partner and thus encompassing rape culture are prevalent in the criminal justice system. Although it is a legal crime that is being reported, victims are often turned away feeling alienated, hopeless, and unworthy and have limited options for resources beyond the system. \n\nA possible explanation of why the criminal justice system is unlikely to believe many victims is due to victims’ fragmented memory. It is not uncommon for victims of sexual abuse to also have a traumatic brain injury or other neurobiological reactions due to assault. In her work, Campbell explains how molecular changes occur in response to trauma, and how this can influence discrepancies in victims’ reports and recollections of the event. After a traumatic incident, chemical alterations in the brain change, impacting encoding and processing the memory \n\nNot only do neurobiological changes affect victims’ memories, but emotion dysregulation, repression, suppression, dissociation, and avoidance of the event are also common reactions in victims These cognitive and neurobiological factors are rarely considered when a victim reports an assault. . During the time law enforcement personnel gather information about the event, they could be met with victims explaining their stories inconsistently due to a fragmented memory. Either by a neurobiological change or psychological response to particularly distressing trauma, victims may fall prey to the inability to coherently portray details of the event, thus taking away credibility and facilitating secondary victimization. \n\nThe term revictimisation refers to a pattern wherein the victim of abuse and/or crime has a statistically higher tendency to be victimised again, either shortly thereafter or much later in adulthood in the case of abuse as a child. This latter pattern is particularly notable in cases of sexual abuse. While an exact percentage is almost impossible to obtain, samples from many studies suggest the rate of revictimisation for people with histories of sexual abuse is very high. The vulnerability to victimisation experienced as an adult is also not limited to sexual assault, and may include physical abuse as well.\n\nReasons as to why revictimisation occurs vary by event type, and some mechanisms are unknown. Revictimisation in the short term is often the result of risk factors that were already present, which were not changed or mitigated after the first victimisation; sometimes the victim cannot control these factors. Examples of these risk factors include living or working in dangerous areas, chaotic familial relations, having an aggressive temperament, drug or alcohol usage and unemployment.\n\nRevictimisation of adults who were previously sexually abused as children is more complex. Multiple theories exist as to how this functions. Some scientists propose a maladaptive form of learning; the initial abuse teaches inappropriate beliefs and behaviours that persist into adulthood. The victim believes that abusive behaviour is \"normal\" and comes to expect, or feel they deserve, it from others in the context of relationships, and thus may unconsciously seek out abusive partners or cling to abusive relationships. Another theory draws on the principle of learned helplessness. As children, they are put in situations that they have little to no hope of escaping, especially when the abuse comes from a caregiver. One theory goes that this state of being unable to fight back or flee the danger leaves the last primitive option: freeze, an offshoot of death-feigning.\n\nIn adulthood, the freeze response can remain, and some professionals have noted that victimisers sometimes seem to pick up subtle clues of this when choosing a victim. This behaviour can make the victim an easier target, as they sometimes make less effort to fight back or vocalise. Afterwards, they often make excuses and minimise what happened to them, sometimes never reporting the assault to the authorities.\n\nSelf-victimisation (or victim playing) is the fabrication of victimhood for a variety of reasons such to justify abuse of others, to manipulate others, a coping strategy or attention seeking.\n\nVictims of abuse and manipulation often get trapped into a self-image of victimisation. The psychological profile of victimisation includes a pervasive sense of helplessness, passivity, loss of control, pessimism, negative thinking, strong feelings of guilt, shame, self-blame and depression. This way of thinking can lead to hopelessness and despair.\n\nLevels of criminal activity are measured through three major data sources: the Uniform Crime Reports (UCR), self-report surveys of criminal offenders, and the National Crime Victimization Survey (NCVS). However, the UCR and self-report surveys generally report details regarding the offender and the criminal offense; information on the victim is only included so far as his/her relationship to the offender, and perhaps a superficial overview of his/her injuries. The NCVS is a tool used to measure the existence of actual, rather than only those reported, crimes—the victimisation rate—by asking individuals about incidents in which they may have been victimised. The National Crime Victimization Survey is the United States' primary source of information on crime victimisation.\n\nEach year, data is obtained from a nationally represented sample of 77,200 households comprising nearly 134,000 persons on the frequency, characteristics and consequences of criminal victimisation in the United States. This survey enables the (government) to estimate the likelihood of victimisation by Rape (more valid estimates were calculated after the surveys redesign in 1992 that better tapped instances of sexual assault, particularly of Date rape), robbery, assault, theft, household burglary, and motor vehicle theft for the population as a whole as well as for segments of the population such as women, the elderly, members of various racial groups, city dwellers, or other groups. According to the Bureau of Justice Statistics (BJS), the NCVS reveals that, from 1994 to 2005, violent crime rates have declined, reaching the lowest levels ever recorded. Property crimes continue to decline.\n\nIn 2010, the National Institute of Justice reported that American adolescents were the age group most likely to be victims of violent crime, while American men were more likely than American women to be victims of violent crime, and blacks were more likely than Americans of other races to be victims of violent crime.\n\nVictimisation is a concept in employment law\n\nGeneral\n\nRevictimisation\n\n"}
{"id": "841057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=841057", "title": "Yellow grease", "text": "Yellow grease\n\nYellow grease, also termed used cooking oil (UCO), used vegetable oil (UVO), recycled vegetable oil, or waste vegetable oil (WVO) is recovered from businesses and industry that use the oil for cooking.\n\nIt is used to feed livestock, and to manufacture soap, make-up, clothes, rubber, and detergents. Due to competition from these other industrial sectors, the EIA estimates that less than a third of yellow grease could be spared for biodiesel production annually.\n\nIt is distinct from brown grease; yellow grease is typically used frying oils from deep fryers, whereas brown grease is sourced from grease interceptors.\n\nYellow grease can also refer to lower-quality grades of tallow (cow or sheep fat) from animal rendering plants. \n\nThe term has been in use for some time. A source from 1896 describes it as follows: \"Yellow grease is made by packers. All the refuse materials of the packing houses go into the yellow grease tank, together with any hogs which may die on the packers' hands.\"\n\n\n"}
