{"id": "632941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=632941", "title": "Academy of Law", "text": "Academy of Law\n\nThe Academy of Law is a fictional place of learning appearing in the \"Judge Dredd\" series that appears in the British comic \"2000 AD\".\n\nDepicted many times since the early days of the Judge Dredd series, the Academy of Law is where the Judges of Mega-City One are trained. Training a Street Judge takes fifteen long, hard years (although exceptional cadets may graduate earlier through a fast-track programme, usually in thirteen years). Many of the entrants to the Academy of Law never make it to the streets of Mega-City One as a full Judge. The Academy is sometimes referred to as \"The toughest school on earth\". Cadets are either cloned from proven genetic stock, or are recruited into the Academy, typically at the age of five. They are then expected to learn the basics of law enforcement very quickly, and any failing during their rigorous training is likely to lead to expulsion. Only two in seven cadets graduate. On graduating cadets attain Rookie Judge status and are awarded their half eagle badge and white helmet.\n\nCadet judges attend regular classes on all aspects of policing and controlling a 22nd Century Megalopolis. Both practical and mental skills are vital to their progress at the Academy, so they are subjected to continual assessment by their judge-tutors. One of the standard texts at the academy is \"The Comportment of a Judge\" - a fictional reference guide for street judges written by Judge Dredd, and often known as \"Dredd's Comportment.\" As well as judging skills in their early years at the academy they also receive a standard education in reading, writing, mathematics, science, geography (both international and the city's layout), history (they are told the same rewritten and censored version as the citizens ) and languages, just about all the judges can speak Sov (Russian). They are trained in other languages if required. They are trained and exercised to very high physical levels to make sure they are naturally fit and have the high stamina level required for the long duty hours when they hit the streets, some judges are known to do 48 hour shifts before taking any sleep. One of the most important things that they are taught (or possibly brainwashed) is a deep seated fanatical belief in the Judge governmental political system and the Justice Department's ideological stance on subjects. Most judges (and Dredd in particular) won't accept any other systems of government and openly attempt to dissuade others from researching and understanding them.\n\nThe Academy of Law is shown as being a self-contained environment for prospective judges - affording them somewhere to live, train both physically and mentally, and to be tested. However cadets do have to go outside in groups for their \"Hotdog Run,\" a combat mission into the Cursed Earth radiation desert. This is usually a cadet's first real test of their training in actual combat conditions.\n\nRookie judges must also pass a \"final street test\" before they can graduate. Only when they have satisfied a serving judge that they can handle themselves on the streets of Mega-City One can a rookie leave the Academy with his or her black helmet and full eagle badge. \nThe Academy has come under attack from hostile forces three times:\n\n\nNotable characters in the \"Judge Dredd\" strip who originated in the Academy are tutors Judge Griffin and Judge Silver, who both became chief judges, Judge Pepper who became Griffin's deputy chief judge, and Judge Odell, who appeared in the buildup to the \"Necropolis\" story as Judge Kraken's tutor and mentor. Both of the Judge Giants first appearances are in stories in which they are cadets in the Academy: the younger one graduated to judge several years after he first appeared in the strip, and features in many stories as Dredd's sidekick. Judge Beeny has featured at many points in her life including from before her birth, her induction to the Academy and many appearances as a cadet in most of her stories. Former cadet Dolman is notable not for anything he has done yet, but for the potential development of his character in the strip's future, as he is cloned from Dredd's DNA and effectively a member of his family.\n"}
{"id": "36378096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36378096", "title": "Access to Justice Act 1999", "text": "Access to Justice Act 1999\n\nAccess to Justice Act 1999 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It replaced the legal aid system in England and Wales. It created the Legal Services Commission replacing the Legal Aid Board, and two new schemes: Community Legal Service to fund civil and family cases, and the Criminal Defence Service for criminal cases. The Act put a cap on the amount spent on civil legal aid. The use of conditional fee agreements, commonly known as \"no-win no-fee\", was extended to most civil court cases.\n\nSection 54 of the Act both creates and limits rights of appeal. One effect of this, as set out in the UK Supreme Court Practice Direction 1 is \"The most important general restriction on rights of appeal is section 54(4) of the Access to Justice Act 1999. The effect of this provision is that the Supreme Court may not entertain any appeal against an order of the Court of Appeal refusing permission for an appeal to the Court of Appeal from a lower court.\" This accords with Section 40(6) of the Constitutional Reform Act 2005.\n"}
{"id": "26117876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26117876", "title": "Albania–Italy Boundary Agreement", "text": "Albania–Italy Boundary Agreement\n\nThe Albania–Italy Boundary Agreement is a 1992 treaty between Albania and Italy in which the two countries agreed to delimit a maritime boundary between them in the continental shelf.\n\nThe treaty was signed in Tirana on 18 December 1992. The text of the treaty sets out boundary in the Strait of Otranto composed of 16 straight-line maritime segments defined by 17 individual coordinate points. The boundary represents an approximate equidistant line between Italy and Albania. The northernmost point of the boundary forms a maritime tripoint with Montenegro; the southernmost point forms a maritime tripoint with Greece. The treaty is unique among maritime boundary treaties in that it allows any dispute regarding the boundary to be referred by either of the countries to the International Court of Justice if it cannot be resolved by diplomatic means within four months.\n\nThe full name of the treaty is \"Agreement between Albania and Italy for the determination of the continental shelf of each of the two countries\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15764803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15764803", "title": "Bankruptcy Appellate Panel", "text": "Bankruptcy Appellate Panel\n\nA Bankruptcy Appellate Panel (abbreviated BAP) is authorized by 28 U.S.C. § 158(b) to hear, with the consent of all parties, appeals from the decisions of the United States bankruptcy courts in their district that otherwise would be heard by district courts, but only in those districts in which the district judges authorize appeals to BAPs. BAPs typically sit as three-judge panels composed of bankruptcy judges appointed from the circuit's districts, with the restriction that no judge may participate in an appeal arising from that judge's own district.\n\nNot all of the federal judicial circuits have convened a BAP. , only the First, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, and Tenth Circuits had convened these panels.\n\nThe Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978 permitted federal judicial circuits to establish Bankruptcy Appellate Panels to hear appeals from the bankruptcy courts. Those circuits which chose not to establish panels would have bankruptcy appeals heard by the United States district courts.\n\nThe first circuits to establish Bankruptcy Appellate Panels were the Ninth Circuit (in 1979) and the First Circuit (in 1980). The aftermath of the landmark \"Northern Pipeline Co. v. Marathon Pipe Line Co.\" case in 1982 had different effects on the two circuits. Even though the U.S. Supreme Court did not directly address the constitutionality of the panels in that decision, the First Circuit held that the emergency rules adopted after the decision was rendered pre-empted the use of their BAP, and subsequently disbanded it. The Ninth Circuit disagreed, holding that because the BAP was supervised by the Court of Appeals, and because the BAP's decisions could be appealed to the Court of Appeals, it was constitutional and could therefore continue.\n\nIn 1994, Congress enacted the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1994, which included an amendment of (the statute governing appeals in bankruptcy cases) to require all circuits to establish a BAP unless the judicial council of a circuit found that (1) there were insufficient judicial resources in the circuit to do so, or (2) the establishment of a BAP would result in undue delay or increased cost to parties in bankruptcy cases.\n\nIn 1996, the First Circuit reestablished its BAP, and four new panels were created in the Second, Sixth, Eighth, and Tenth Circuits. The Seventh Circuit deferred making a decision, and the remaining five circuits declined to create a BAP. The Second Circuit BAP ceased operations on July 1, 2000.\n\nThe BAP in each judicial circuit has its own local rules of practice, in addition to the Federal Rules of Bankruptcy Procedure and Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure. Parties to the bankruptcy case retain the right to have their appeal heard by a district court instead of a BAP by filing an \"election\" to transfer the case. Judges on a BAP are generally barred from hearing a case from their own bankruptcy district.\n\nAppeals from the BAP itself are directed to the Court of Appeals for that circuit.\n\n"}
{"id": "3152403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3152403", "title": "Bava Metzia", "text": "Bava Metzia\n\nBava Metzia (Talmudic Aramaic: בבא מציעא, \"The Middle Gate\") is the second of the first three Talmudic tractates in the order of Nezikin (\"Damages\"), the other two being Bava Kamma and Bava Batra. Originally all three formed a single tractate called \"Nezikin\" (torts or injuries), each \"Bava\" being a Part or subdivision. Bava Metzia discusses civil matters such as property law and usury. It also examines one's obligations to guard lost property that have been found, or property explicitly entrusted to him.\n\nBava Metzia contains 119 pages divided into ten chapters.\n\nAn honorary trustee is one who finds lost property. He has to keep it as \"shomer ḥinnam\" until he can restore it to the rightful owner (). The regulations as to what constitutes finding, what to do with the things found, how to guard against false claimants, how to take care of the property found, under what conditions the finder of a thing is bound to take care of it, and under what conditions he is not so obligated—all this is explained in the first two chapters. A trustee who takes no payment is only responsible for such loss of the entrusted property as has been caused through the trustee's negligence (\"peshi'ah\"\"). The mode of procedure in such cases, and the regulations concerning eventual fines, are treated in ch. ii. 1; all other laws concerning the responsibilities and the rights of the \"shomer ḥinnam\" are contained in ch. iii. 4–12.\n\nContains various laws concerning sale and exchange. The mere payment of money does not constitute the sale; and the buyer may legally cancel the sale and claim the return of the money, unless he has \"drawn\" the thing bought away from its place: this \"drawing\" (\"\"meshikah\") makes the sale final. Until such act is performed the seller is to some extent a \"shomer ḥinnam\" of the money paid. Similarly may the buyer become a \"shomer ḥinnam\" of the thing bought, if, on finding that he has been cheated, he wants to cancel the sale, to return the thing bought, and to claim the money back. What constitutes cheating (\"onaah\") is defined in the course of this chapter. \"(See Alienation)\".\n\nCh. v. deals with laws concerning interest, which have nothing in common with the laws concerning \"shomer ḥinnam\" beyond the fact that taking interest and cheating (\"onaah\"\" of chap. iv.) both consist of an illegal addition to what is actually due. The laws prohibiting the taking of interest are very severe, and extend to all business transactions that in any way resemble the taking of interest. The two terms for taking interest, \"neshekh\" (interest), and \"tarbit\" (increase), used in () are explained and illustrated by examples (ch. v. 1–10). According to the Mishnah \"the lender, who takes interest, the borrower who pays it, the witnesses, the security, and the clerk who writes the document, are all guilty of having broken the law concerning interest\" (ch. v. 11). \"(See Usury)\".\n\nA paid trustee is liable to pay for all losses except those caused by an accident (\"ones\"). He has to swear that such an accident happened, and is thereupon free from payment (ch. vii. 8–10). The example given in the Mishnah of \"shomer sakhar\" is that of an artisan who undertakes to produce certain work out of a given material. If the material is spoiled, or the work produced is not according to agreement, he has to pay. As the hirer (\"sokher\") has the same liability as the \"shomer sakhar\", some laws relating to the \"sokher\" are included in ch. vi. From the paid trustee the Mishnah passes over (ch. vii.) to the workman (\"po'el\") in general, and regulates the working time, the food, and also the rights of the workman to partake of the fruit of the field or vineyard while working there ().\n\nA borrower or hirer is liable to pay for every kind of loss, including loss through accident, except \"if the lender is with him\" (); that is, according to the traditional interpretation, if the lender was likewise at work with him, for payment or without payment.\n\nThe laws of \"sokher\" having been given in chap. vi., as far as movable property is concerned, sections 6–9 of chap. viii. and 1–10 of chap. ix. treatment of the soker regarding immovable property; of the relations between the tenant of a house and his landlord, between the farmer of a field and its owner. Among the laws that regulate these relations are the following: If the tenant takes a house for a year, and the year happens to be a leap year, the tenant occupies the house thirteen months for the same price. The tenant can not be turned out in the winter between the Feast of Tabernacles \"(Sukkot)\" and Passover, unless notice be given one month before the beginning of the winter. In large towns and for shops, one year's notice is required.\n\nSections 11 and 12 of chap. ix, taking up again the subject of hiring, regulate the various terms for paying the due wages (based on , and ). The last section of chap. ix. defines the rights of the creditor in accordance with .\n\nThe concluding chapter (x) regulates the relations between joint owners and neighbors, in dwellings and in fields. The last case mentioned is especially interesting as showing a highly developed state of agricultural jurisdiction in the Mishnaic days.\n\nThe Tosefta in Bava Metzia is divided into eleven chapters, which correspond to the ten chapters of the Mishnah in the following way: Chaps. i.–ii. correspond to chaps. i.–ii. of the Mishnah; chap. iii. to chaps. iii.–iv. of the Mishnah; chaps. iv.–vi. to chap. v. of the Mishnah; chap. vii.—which begins \"he who hires workmen\" (\"po'alin\") instead of \"he who hires artisans\" (\"umanin\") to Mishnah vi. 1; and chap. viii. correspond to chaps. vi.–viii. of the Mishnah; chaps. ix.–x. to chap. xi.; chap. xi. to chap. x. of the Mishnah.\n\nThe Gemara, in explaining the laws of the Mishnah, discusses a variety of kindred problems, especially the Babylonian Gemara; the Jerusalem version being very meager in this respect. Rabbi Zeira, coming from Babylonia to Jerusalem, is said to have fasted a hundred times within a certain period of time, praying that he might forget the Babylonian Gemara, and fully grasp the teachings of Rabbi Johanan, the Jerusalem master (B. M. 85a). According to Rashi, the rabbis of Jerusalem were not of a contentious disposition, and settled difficulties without much discussion (compare p. 38b: \"Are you from Pumbedita, where they make an elephant pass through the eye of a needle?\").\n"}
{"id": "8710924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8710924", "title": "Cafeteria plan", "text": "Cafeteria plan\n\nA cafeteria plan is a type of employee benefit plan offered in the United States pursuant to Section 125 of the Internal Revenue Code. Its name comes from the earliest such plans that allowed employees to choose between different types of benefits, similar to the ability of a customer to choose among available items in a cafeteria. Qualified cafeteria plans are excluded from gross income. To qualify, a cafeteria plan must allow employees to choose from two or more benefits consisting of cash or qualified benefit plans. The Internal Revenue Code explicitly excludes deferred compensation plans from qualifying as a cafeteria plan subject to a gross income exemption. Section 125 also provides two exceptions.\n\nIf the cafeteria plan discriminates in favor of highly compensated employees, the highly compensated employees will be required to report their cafeteria plan benefits as income. The second exception is that if \"the statutory nontaxable benefits provided to key employees exceed 25 percent of the aggregate of such benefits provided for all employees under the plan,\" then the key employees must report their cafeteria plan benefits as income. Effective January 1, 2011, eligible employers meeting contribution requirements and eligibility and participation requirements can establish a \"simple\" cafeteria plan. Simple cafeteria plans are treated as meeting the nondiscrimination requirements of a cafeteria plan and certain benefits under a cafeteria plan.\n\nThe Cafeteria Benefits Plan resulted from the influence of Thomas E. Wood of Hewitt Associates and chairman of the Corporate Board for the International Foundation of Employee Benefit Plans. Wood, who once said \"one universal benefit program can no longer do the job,\" was the originator of flexible compensation due to the fact American corporations and households were becoming increasingly dynamic and globalized. As quoted in his chapter of the business publication, \"Business, Work, and Benefits: Adjusting to Change\" produced by the Employee Benefit Research Institute, \"Wood's framework creates a specific detailed picture. The concepts include the establishment of a basic \"safety net\" of benefits to cover financial hazards associated with old age, death and disability, and catastrophic medical expenses, with supplementary benefits offered on a defined contribution basis\". \n\nCafeteria plans were added to the Internal Revenue Code in November 1978. Internal Revenue Code Section 125 sets forth the requirements and tax treatment of cafeteria plans. Section 125 has been amended multiple times since its enactment.\n\nIn May 2005, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service announced that, effective immediately, employers would be permitted to design cafeteria plans that enable participants to be reimbursed for claims incurred up to 2½ months after the close of a plan year. Before this notice, reimbursements were permitted only for claims incurred during the plan year. Under the new ruling, an employee who participates in a Flexible Spending Account plan ending December 31 can still receive reimbursement for claims incurred through March 15 if the extended grace period is adopted by the employer.\n\nSince the \"use it or lose it\" fear of many employees was reduced significantly by the expanded claims reimbursement cycle, and access to funds can now be better targeted for purchases that the employee actually needs, there has been a clear increase in both the percentage of employees opting to participate in a Flex Plan and in the level of annual elections, enhancing FICA savings for employees and employers alike.\n\nEmployees of employers with cafeteria plans may obtain such benefits as health insurance, group-term life insurance, voluntary \"supplemental\" insurance (dental, vision, cancer, hospital confinement, accident, etc.), and flexible spending accounts through the plan. Though some cafeteria plans offer an explicit choice of cash or benefits, most today are operated through a \"salary redirection agreement\", which is a payroll deduction in all but name. Deductions under such agreements are often called pre-tax deductions. Salary redirection contributions are not actually or constructively received by the participant. Therefore, those contributions are not generally considered wages for federal income tax purposes, nor are they usually subject to Federal Insurance Contributions Act tax (FICA) and Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA).\n\nReasons for implementing a Section 125 plan are primarily for the tax savings advantages for the employer and employee. Both parties save on taxes and therefore increase their spendable income. Employees' pretax contributions are not subject to federal, state, or social security taxes. Employers save on the employer portion of FICA, FUTA, and workers' compensation insurance premiums. \n\nA cafeteria plan may permit an employee to revoke an election during a period of coverage and to make a new election only in limited circumstances, such as a change in status event. A change in status event includes changes in the number of an employee's dependents.\n\nThe following is a list of common non-prescription over-the-counter items eligible for reimbursement, dual purpose items that may be reimbursable with a physician's statement and items that are not reimbursable. This list is not all-inclusive.\n\nThe following is a list of over-the-counter items the IRS has determined to be primarily for medical care and eligible for reimbursement. Over-the-counter medicines are allowable only with a written recommendation from a physician.\nThe following list of dual-purpose over-the-counter items can be reimbursed if used for medical purposes. They must be accompanied by a medical practitioner's note stating the item is to treat a\nspecific medical condition and not a cosmetic procedure.\n"}
{"id": "54339818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54339818", "title": "Censorship of websites in Egypt (2017)", "text": "Censorship of websites in Egypt (2017)\n\nAs of June 2017, the government in Egypt has blocked more than 60 websites, 48 of which are online news websites according to the Association for Freedom of Thought and Expression.\n\nBlocked sites are websites of opposition satellite channels that broadcast from outside Egypt, newspapers, online publishing platform, websites of political and youth groups,VPN and online proxy websites.\n\nThe government accuses those websites of supporting terrorism and extremism and spreading fake news.\n\nThe censorship was enforced by all internet service providers in Egypt, including TE Data, Etisalat and Vodafone.\n\nBlocked websites include :\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16011447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16011447", "title": "Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms\n\nThe Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms (, ) is a document enacted in 1991 by the Czechoslovak Federative Republic, and continued as part of the constitutional systems of both the Czech Republic and Slovak Republic. In the Czech Republic, the document was kept in its entirety in its 1991 form as a separate document from the constitution, but imbued with the same legal standing as the constitution. By contrast, the basic provisions of the Charter were integrated directly into the Slovak constitution. Though these legal provisions articles are substantively the same, there are some differences, such as the Slovak contention that \"the privacy of correspondence and secrecy of mailed messages and other\nwritten documents and the protection of personal data are guaranteed.\" \n\nThe inclusion of the goals of the Charter directly into the Slovak constitution means that only the Czech Republic currently has a \"Charter of Fundamental Rights and Basic Freedoms\". This article is therefore principally about that document, and its predecessor in the Czechoslovak Federative Republic.\n\nThe document is somewhat analogous to the United States Bill of Rights, although its provisions tend to be more specific, and imbue its citizens with more and different rights than in United States constitutional law, which by contrast recognizes and protects natural rights rather than grant legal entitlement.\n"}
{"id": "9168358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9168358", "title": "Civil Code of the Philippines", "text": "Civil Code of the Philippines\n\nThe Civil Code of the Philippines is the product of the codification of private law in the Philippines. It is the general law that governs family and property relations in the Philippines. It was enacted in 1950, and remains in force to date despite some significant amendments.\n\nThe Philippine Civil Code is strongly influenced by the Spanish \"Código Civil\", which was first enforced in 1889 within the Philippines, then a colony of the Spanish Empire. The \"Código Civil\" remained in effect even throughout the American Occupation, however by 1940 the Commonwealth Government of President Manuel Luis Quezon formed a Commission tasked with drafting a new Civil Code. The Commission was initially headed by Chief Justice Ramón Avanceña, but its work was interrupted by the Japanese invasion and the Second World War, while its records were destroyed during the Battle of Manila in 1945.\n\nIn 1947, President Manuel Roxas of the Third Republic created a new Code Commission, this time headed by the former Dean of the University of the Philippines College of Law, Jorge Bocobo. Among the members of this new Commission were future Supreme Court Associate Justice Francisco R. Capistrano, and future Vice-President Arturo Tolentino. The Code Commission completed the final draft of the new Civil Code by December 1947, and this was submitted to Congress, which enacted it into law through Republic Act No. 386. The Civil Code took effect in 1950.\n\nDue to its wide coverage and impact, the Civil Code is the subject of much study and extensive commentary. Several legal luminaries developed reputations as experts on the Civil Code and consequently enhanced their reputations in the field of Philippine law. These include Tolentino, who himself had helped draft it, Supreme Court Associate Justices J. B. L. Reyes, Flérida Ruth P. Romero, José Vitug, and Edgardo Paras.\n\nThe influence of the Spanish Civil Code is most evident in the books on property, succession and obligations and contracts. The law on succession, for example, retains such concepts indigenous to Spain such as the rule on legitimes and \"reserva troncal\". On the other hand, many of the provisions on special contracts, particularly on sales, are derived from common law as practised in the United States, reflecting the influence of American colonial rule and the influx of commercial relations involving Americans at the time.\n\nThe great mass of disputes between private persons over civil and property relations are resolved by applying the provisions of the Civil Code. With over 2,000 specific provisions, the Civil Code attempts to anticipate all possible questions arising from civil and property relations and prescribe a definitive solution for these problems. Understandably, the Civil Code itself is unable to provide a definite answer for all emerging problems; thus the courts also rely on precedent based on interpretations by the Supreme Court. This the Civil Code itself notably recognises in saying that \"[j]udicial decisions applying or interpreting the laws or the Constitution shall form a part of the legal system of the Philippines\" (\"Article 8, Civil Code\"), a recognition of the eminent role now played by precedents in Philippine law. The Civil Code is divided into four “books”, with each specific book namely:\nThe Chapter 2 of the Civil code was formulated to indicate certain norms that spring from the fountain of good conscience, that will serve as golden threads through society to the end of that law may approach its supreme ideal which is sway and dominance of justice, the primary precept of this portion is derived from Justinian's \"Institutiones\": \"iuris praecepta sunt haec: honeste vivere, alterum non laedere, suum cuique tribuere\". (Inst. 1,1,3-4). (Translated into English: \"the precepts of law are these: to live honestly, to injure no one, [and] to give to each his own\".). Civil personality defines the distinction between Natural and Juridical persons, as well as the difference between juridical capacity and capacity to act..\n\nIn 1987, President Corazón Cojuangco Aquino enacted into law The Family Code of 1987, which was intended to supplant Book I of the Civil Code concerning persons and family relations. Work on the Family Code had begun as early as 1979, and it had been drafted by two successive committees, the first chaired by future Supreme Court Justice Romero, and the second chaired by former Supreme Court Justice Reyes. The Civil Code needed amendment via the Family Code in order to alter certain provisions derived from foreign sources which had proven unsuitable to Filipino culture and to attune it to contemporary developments and trends.\nThe Family Code covers fields of significant public interest, especially the laws on marriage. The definition and requisites for marriage, along with the grounds for annulment, are found in the Family Code, as is the law on conjugal property relations, rules on establishing filiation, and the governing provisions on support, parental authority, and adoption.\n\nFocuses on property, which classifies and defines the different kinds of approporiable objects, provides for their acquisitions and loss and treats the nature and consequences of real right. Ownership is independent and general right of the person to control a thing particularly in his possession, enjoyment, disposition, and recovery, subject to no restrictions except those imposed by the state or private persons, without prejudice to the provisions of the law. .\n\nOwnership is acquired by occupation and by intellectual creation. Ownership and other real rights over property are acquired and transmitted by law, by donation, by testate, by intestate succession, and in consequence of certain contracts by tradition. They may be also acquired by prescription. \n\nLaw of obligations is defined as juridical necessity to give, to or not do. Contracts is a meeting of the minds between two persons whereby one binds himself with respect to the other to give something or to render some service\n\nDevelopments in tort and damages law have been guided less by the Code than by judicial precedents. Damage can be incurred when there is harm done and what may be recovered arising from wrongful, unwrongful and tortuous act. Damages can be actual or compensatory, moral, nominal, temperate or moderate, liquidated and exemplary or corrective.]\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26012289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26012289", "title": "Collaborations between the United States government and Italian Mafia", "text": "Collaborations between the United States government and Italian Mafia\n\nThe United States government collaborated with the Italian Mafia during World War II and afterwards on several occasions.\n\nDuring the early days of World War II, the U.S. Office of Naval Intelligence suspected that Italian and German agents were entering the United States through New York, and that these facilities were susceptible to sabotage. The loss of SS Normandie in February 1942, especially, raised fears and suspicions in the Navy about possible sabotage in the Eastern ports. A Navy Intelligence Unit, B3, assigned more than a hundred agents to investigate possible Benito Mussolini supporters within the predominantly Italian-American fisherman and dockworker population on the waterfront. Their efforts were fruitless, as the dockworkers and fishermen in the Italian Mafia-controlled waterfront were tight-lipped and distant to strangers. The Navy contacted Meyer Lansky, a known associate of Salvatore C. Lucania and one of the top non-Italian associates of the Mafia, about a deal with the Mafia boss Lucania. Lucania, also known as Lucky Luciano, was one of the highest-ranking Mafia both in Italy and the US and was serving a 30 to 50 years sentence for compulsory prostitution in the Clinton Prison. To facilitate the negotiations, the State of New York moved Luciano from the Clinton prison to Great Meadow Correctional Facility, which is much closer to New York City.\n\nThe State of New York, Luciano and the Navy struck a deal in which Luciano guaranteed full assistance of his organization in providing intelligence to the Navy. In addition, Luciano associate Albert Anastasia—who controlled the docks and ran Murder, Inc.—allegedly guaranteed no dockworker strikes throughout the war. In return, the State of New York agreed to commute Luciano’s sentence. Luciano’s actual influence is uncertain, but the authorities did note that the dockworker strikes stopped after the deal was reached with Luciano.\n\nIn the summer of 1945, Luciano petitioned the State of New York for executive clemency, citing his assistance to the Navy. Naval authorities, embarrassed that they had to recruit organized-crime to help in their war effort, declined to confirm Luciano’s claim. However, the Manhattan District Attorney’s office validated the facts and the state parole board unanimously agreed to recommend to the governor that Luciano be released and deported immediately. On January 4, 1946, Governor Thomas E. Dewey, the former prosecutor who placed Luciano into prison, commuted Lucky Luciano’s sentence on the condition that he did not resist deportation to Italy. Dewey stated, “Upon the entry of the United States into the war, Luciano’s aid was sought by the Armed Services in inducing others to provide information concerning possible enemy attack. It appears that he cooperated in such effort, although the actual value of the information procured is not clear.” Luciano was deported to his homeland Italy on February 9, 1946. There was a media hype of Luciano’s role after his deportation. The syndicated columnist and radio broadcaster Walter Winchell even reported in 1947 that Luciano would receive the Medal of Honor for his secret services.\n\nItalian Americans were very helpful in the planning and execution of the invasion of Sicily. The Mafia was involved in assisting the U.S. war efforts. Luciano’s associates found numerous Sicilians to help the Naval Intelligence draw maps of the harbors of Sicily and dig up old snapshots of the coastline. Vito Genovese, another Mafia boss, offered his services to the U.S. Army and became an interpreter and advisor to the U.S. Army military government in Naples. He quickly became one of AMGOT’s most trusted employees. Through the Navy Intelligence’s Mafia contacts from Operation Underworld, the names of Sicilian underworld personalities and friendly Sicilian natives who could be trusted were obtained and actually used in the Sicilian campaign.\nThe Joint Staff Planners for the US Joint Chiefs of Staff (JSP) drafted a report titled Special Military Plan for Psychological Warfare in Sicily that recommended the “Establishment of contact and communications with the leaders of separatist nuclei, disaffected workers, and clandestine radical groups, e.g., the Mafia, and giving them every possible aid.” The report was approved by the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington on April 15, 1943.\n\nThere was considerable public controversy during the late days of the war and afterwards surrounding the connection between the U.S. Government and the Mafia. In 1953, Governor Dewey, pushed by allegations that he sold Luciano his pardon, ordered a confidential investigation by the state’s commissioner of investigation, William Herlands. Herlands released his 2,600-page report in 1954, which offered proof of Luciano’s involvement with the Navy without finding any wrongdoing by Dewey. Naval officials reviewed the report and requested Dewey to not release it on the grounds that it would be a public-relations disaster for the Navy and it might damage future similar war efforts. Dewey agreed, and the report was not released until after his death in the mid-1970s.\n\nNotable scholars of the topic such as Selwyn Raab and Tim Newark have questioned the effectiveness of the Mafia in their help during Operation Husky. Raab states that Luciano could not have helped during the invasion of Sicily, as he was out of touch with the Sicilian Mafia, and neither he nor the Cosa Nostra had any significant contribution to the Allied victory in Sicily. On the other hand, another scholar on the topic, Ezio Costanzo, alleges that Congressman Horan revealed that Luciano was visited 11 times by Naval Intelligence officers throughout his sentence. In addition, Costanzo states that Commander Haffenden of Naval Intelligence Section F (foreign intelligence) stated in numerous reports how his men were interviewing many native-born Italians and that they were cooperating because of Luciano.\n\n"}
{"id": "180472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180472", "title": "Consumer privacy", "text": "Consumer privacy\n\nConsumer privacy is a form of information privacy concerned with the legal and political issues arising from the interaction of the public's expectation of privacy with the collection and dissemination of data by businesses or merchants. Consumer privacy concerns date back to the first commercial couriers and bankers who enforced strong measures to protect customer privacy. In modern times, the ethical codes of most professions specify measures to protect customer privacy, including medical privacy, client confidentiality, and national security. Since most organizations have a competitive incentive to retain exclusive access to customer data, and since customer trust is usually a priority, many companies adopt security engineering measures to protect customer privacy.\n\nConsumer privacy protection is the use of laws and regulations to protect individuals from privacy loss due to the failures and limitations of corporate customer privacy measures. Corporations may be inclined to share data for commercial advantage and fail to officially recognize it as sensitive to avoid legal liability in the chance that lapses of security may occur. Modern consumer privacy law originated from telecom regulation when it was recognized that a telephone company had access to unprecedented levels of information. Customer privacy measures were seen as deficient to deal with the many hazards of corporate data sharing, corporate mergers, employee turnover, and theft of data storage devices (e.g., hard drives) that could store a large amount of data in a portable location.\n\nConsumer privacy concerns date back to the first commercial couriers and bankers who enforced strong measures to protect customer privacy. Harsh punitive measures were passed as the result of failing to keep a customer's information private. In modern times, the ethical codes of most professions specify privacy measures for the consumer of any service, including medical privacy, client confidentiality, and national security. These codes are particularly important in a carceral state, where no privacy in any form nor limits on state oversight or data use exists.\n\nCorporate customer privacy practices are approaches taken by commercial organizations to ensure that confidential customer data is not stolen or abused. Since most organizations have strong competitive incentives to retain exclusive access to these data, and since customer trust is usually a high priority, most companies take some security engineering measures to protect customer privacy. There is also a concern that companies may sell consumer data if they have to declare bankruptcy, although it often violates their own privacy policies. These vary in effectiveness, and would not typically meet the much higher standards of client confidentiality applied by ethical codes or legal codes in banking or law, nor patient privacy measures in medicine, nor rigorous national security measures in military and intelligence organizations.\n\nSince they operate for-profit, commercial organizations also cannot spend unlimited funds on precautions while remaining competitive; a commercial context tends to limit privacy measures and to motivate organizations to share data when working in partnership. The damage done by privacy loss is not measurable, nor can it be undone, and commercial organizations have little or no interest in taking unprofitable measures to drastically increase the privacy of customers. Corporations may be inclined to share data for commercial advantage and fail to officially recognize it as sensitive to avoid legal liability in the chance that lapses of security may occur. This has led to many moral hazards and customer privacy violation incidents.\n\nSome services—notably telecommunications, including Internet—require collecting a vast array of information about users’ activities in the course of business, and may also require consultation of these data to prepare bills. In the US and Canada, telecom data must be kept for seven years to permit dispute and consultation about phone charges. These sensitivities have led telecom regulation to be a leader in consumer privacy regulation, enforcing a high level of confidentiality on the sensitive customer communication records.\n\nFocusing on telecom has been outmoded to some degree as other industries also gather sensitive data. Such common commercial measures as software-based customer relationship management, rewards programs, and target marketing tend to drastically increase the amount of information gathered (and sometimes shared). These very drastically increase privacy risks and have accelerated the shift to regulation, rather than relying on the corporate desire to preserve goodwill.\n\nConcerns have led to consumer privacy laws in most countries, especially in the European Union, Australia, New Zealand and Canada. Notably, among developed countries, the United States has no such law and relies on corporate customer privacy disclosed in privacy policies to ensure consumer privacy in general. Modern privacy law and regulation may be compared to parts of the Hippocratic Oath, which includes a requirement for doctors to avoid mentioning the ills of patients to others—not only to protect them, but to protect their families— and also recognizes that innocent third parties can be harmed by the loss of control of sensitive personal information.\n\nModern consumer privacy law originated from telecom regulation when it was recognized that a telephone company—especially a monopoly (known in many nations as a PTT)—had access to unprecedented levels of information: the direct customer's communication habits and correspondents and the data of those who shared the household. Telephone operators could frequently hear conversations—inadvertently or deliberately—and their job required them to dial the exact numbers. The data gathering required for the process of billing began to become a privacy risk as well. Accordingly, strong rules on operator behaviour, customer confidentiality, records keeping and destruction were enforced on telephone companies in every country. Typically only police and military authorities had legal powers to wiretap or see records. Even stricter requirements emerged for various banks' electronic records In some countries, financial privacy is a major focus of the economy, with severe criminal penalties for violating it.\n\nThrough the 1970s many other organizations in developed nations began to acquire sensitive data, but there were few or no regulations in place to prevent them from sharing or abusing the data. Customer trust and goodwill were generally thought to be sufficient in first-world countries, notably the United States, to ensure the protection of truly sensitive data; \"caveat emptor\" was applied in these situations. But in the 1980s, smaller organizations also began to get access to computer hardware and software, and these simply did not have the procedures or personnel or expertise, nor less the time, to take rigorous measures to protect their customers. Meanwhile, via target marketing and rewards programs, companies were acquiring ever more data.\n\nGradually, customer privacy measures were seen as deficient to deal with the many hazards of corporate data sharing, corporate mergers, employee turnover, and theft of data storage devices (e.g., hard drives) that could store a large amount of data in a portable location. Explicit regulation of consumer privacy gained further support, especially in the European Union, where each nation had laws that were incompatible (e.g., some restricted the collection, some the compilation, and some the dissemination of data); it was possible to violate privacy within the EU simply doing these things from different places in the European Common Market as it existed before 1992.\n\nThrough the 1990s, the proliferation of mobile telecom, the introduction of customer relationship management, and the use of the Internet in developed nations brought the situation to the forefront, and most countries had to implement strong consumer privacy laws, often over the objections of business. The European Union and New Zealand passed particularly strong laws that were used as a template for more limited laws in Australia and Canada and some states of the United States (where no federal law for consumer privacy exists, although there are requirements specific to banking and telecom privacy). In Austria around the 1990s, the mere mention of a client's name in a semi-public social setting was enough to earn a junior bank executive a stiff jail sentence.\n\nAfter the terrorist attacks against the United States on September 11, 2001, privacy took a back-seat to national security in legislators' minds. Accordingly, concerns of consumer privacy in the United States have tended to go unheard of as questions of citizen privacy versus the state, and the development of a police state or carceral state, have occupied advocates of strong privacy measures. Whereas it may have appeared prior to 2002 that commercial organizations and the consumer data they gathered were of primary concern, it has appeared since then in most developed nations to be much less of a concern than political privacy and medical privacy (e.g., as violated by biometrics). Indeed, people have recently been stopped at airports solely due to their political views, and there appears to be minimal public will to stop practices of this nature.\n\n"}
{"id": "39889720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39889720", "title": "Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse", "text": "Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse is a multilateral Council of Europe treaty whereby states agree to criminalise certain forms of sexual abuse against children. It is the first international treaty that addresses child sexual abuse that occurs within the home or family.\n\nStates that ratify the Convention agree to criminalise sexual activity with children below the legal age of consent, regardless of the context in which such behaviour occurs; it also mandates the criminalisation of child prostitution and pornography. The Convention sets out several measures to prevent child sexual exploitation and abuse, including the training and educating of children, monitoring of offenders, and the screening and training of people who are employed or volunteer to work with children.\n\nThe Convention was concluded and signed on 25 October 2007 in Lanzarote, Spain. All states of the Council of Europe have signed the Convention. The last state to sign it was Czech Republic in July 2014. It came into force on 1 July 2010 after being ratified by five states.\n\nAs of June 2018, the treaty has been ratified by the following 44 states:\n\nAlthough it was specifically designed for states of the Council of Europe, the Convention is open to accession by any state in the world; however, it has not been signed or ratified by any state outside of the Council of Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6242801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6242801", "title": "Decretist", "text": "Decretist\n\nIn the history of canon law, a decretist was student and interpreter of the \"Decretum Gratiani\". Like Gratian, the decretists sought to provide \"a harmony of discordant canons\" (\"concordia discordantium canonum\"), and they worked towards this through glosses (\"glossae\") and summaries (\"summae\") on Gratian. They are contrasted with the decretalists, whose work primarily focused on papal decretals.\n\nEarly decretists of the Italian school include Paucapalea, a pupil of Gratian's; Rufinus, who wrote the \"Summa Decretorum\"; and Huguccio, who wrote the \"Summa super Decreta\", the most extensive decretist work. There was also a French school of decretists starting with Stephen of Tournai.\n"}
{"id": "10129440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10129440", "title": "Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills", "text": "Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills\n\nDr. Morse's Indian Root Pills was one of the most successful and enduring products to be manufactured and marketed in North America as part of the lucrative patent medicine industry, which thrived during most of the 19th and 20th centuries. Its manufacturer claimed the pills contained herbal ingredients that would help \"cleanse the blood,\" as \"impurity of the blood\" was believed to be the cause of all disease.\n\nDr. Morse's Indian Root Pills have their genesis with the father of William Henry Comstock, Edwin Perkins Comstock (1799–1837) who founded a drug company in New York City sometime before 1833. The Comstock patent medicine business was involved in the sale of a number of successful drugs, including Carlton's Pile Liniment, Oldridge's Balm of Columbia, Kline's Tooth Ache Drops and Judson's Worm Tea. Between 1833 and the time of the acquisition of the rights to Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills, the company remained under the control of the Comstocks through the additional involvement of Edwin's four brothers:\n\nThe Indian Root Pills were first formulated and manufactured in 1854 by Andrew B. Moore (born around 1821, New York), who was then operating under the name A.B. Moore in Buffalo, New York. Rights to the pills were then transferred through a number of different business partnerships under the control of Moore involving:\n\n\nThese reorganizations all occurred amid numerous disputes and lawsuits. During that long period of instability, the manufacturing operations moved from Buffalo to New York City and then to dual sites on opposite sides of the St. Lawrence River, one at Brockville, Ontario, and the other at Morristown, New York. Ownership of Dr. Morse's Indian Root Pills finally stabilized in 1867 when it settled solely in the hands of William Henry Comstock, and thereafter business was carried out under the name W.H. Comstock Co. Ltd.\n\nWhen William Henry Comstock died in 1919, control of the company passed to his son, William Henry Comstock II (1897–1959), known as \"Young Bill.\" A year after William Henry Comstock II died, his widow liquidated the company, selling the assets and patents to Milburn Medicine Company.\n\nThe subsidiary in Australia — W.H. Comstock Company Pty Ltd — had been headed by the former branch manager for the Comstocks. He acquired the rights for Australia and the Orient following the dissolution of the Canadian firm. The Australian firm distributed in New Zealand, Singapore, and Hong Kong up until 1992. Packaging and directions are now modern, the pills being described as \"The Overnight Laxative with the Tonic Action\", but a reproduction of the old label and the facsimile signature of William Henry Comstock, Sr. were still portrayed.\n\nThe W.H. Comstock Co (Aust) Pty Ltd had registered in New South Wales as an Australian Proprietary Company, by Limited Shares, on July 31, 1971, but deregistered on February 27, 1992.\n\nManufacturing & distribution in Australia\n\nGeneral references\nInline citations\n"}
{"id": "17669754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17669754", "title": "Energy saving lamp", "text": "Energy saving lamp\n\nEnergy saving lamps are sources of artificial light that employ advanced technology to reduce the amount of electricity used to generate light, relative to traditional filament-burning light bulbs.\n\nExamples of energy saving lamps include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2277784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2277784", "title": "Equitable conversion", "text": "Equitable conversion\n\nEquitable conversion is a doctrine of the law of real property under which a purchaser of real property becomes the equitable owner of title to the property at the time he/she signs a contract binding him/her to purchase the land at a later date. The seller retains legal title of the property prior to the date of conveyance, but this land interest is considered personal property (a right to the payment of money, rather than a right to the property). The risk of loss is then transferred to the buyerif a house on the property burns down after the contract has been signed, but before the deed is conveyed, the buyer will nevertheless have to pay the agreed-upon purchase price for the land unless the seller in possession or deemed in possession has failed to protect it. Such issues can and should be avoided by parties by stipulating in the contract who will bear the loss in such occurrences. The above rule varies by jurisdiction, but is the general rule.\n\nIf one of the parties dies after the contract for sale of the property has been executed, the doctrine will govern how that party's interest will pass to his heirs. For example, the seller wills his real property to his son, and his personal property to his daughter. If the seller dies after a contract for conveyance is signed by a buyer, the seller's interest in the land will be treated as personal property, and the proceeds of the sale will pass to his daughter. In most jurisdictions, the real property interest created by the contract will pass to the buyer's heirs, while the seller's personal property interest created by the contract will pass to the seller's estate.\n\nThe State of New York does not recognize equitable conversion. In New York, as long as the buyer is without fault, the risk of loss remains on the seller until the buyer takes title or possession.\n\nA growing minority of States have adopted the Uniform Vendor and Purchaser Risk Act (UVPRA) in one form or another. The UVPRA negates the doctrine of Equitable Conversion as it relates to the risk associated with loss. The risk of loss is retained by the seller (Vendor/Grantor) under the UVPRA. Generally, the provisions of the UVPRA can be modified or avoided in the Land Sale Contract.\n"}
{"id": "210541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210541", "title": "Executive order", "text": "Executive order\n\nIn the United States, an executive order is a directive issued by the President of the United States that manages operations of the federal government and has the force of law. The legal or constitutional basis for executive orders has multiple sources. Article Two of the United States Constitution gives the president broad executive and enforcement authority to use their discretion to determine how to enforce the law or to otherwise manage the resources and staff of the executive branch. The ability to make such orders is also based on express or implied Acts of Congress that delegate to the President some degree of discretionary power (delegated legislation).\n\nLike both legislative statutes and regulations promulgated by government agencies, executive orders are subject to judicial review and may be overturned if the orders lack support by statute or the Constitution. Major policy initiatives require approval by the legislative branch, but executive orders have significant influence over the internal affairs of government, deciding how and to what degree legislation will be enforced, dealing with emergencies, waging wars, and in general fine-tuning policy choices in the implementation of broad statutes. As the head of state and head of government of the United States, as well as Commander-in-Chief of the United States Armed Forces, only the President of the United States can issue an executive order.\n\nThe United States Constitution does not have a provision that explicitly permits the use of executive orders. The term \"executive power\" in Article II, Section 1, of the Constitution is not entirely clear. The term is mentioned as direction to \"take Care that the Laws be faithfully executed\" and is part of Article II, Section 3. The consequence of failing to comply could possibly be removal from office.<ref name=\"CIPP/G2008\"></ref>\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has held that all executive orders from the President of the United States must be supported by the Constitution, whether from a clause granting specific power, or by Congress delegating such to the executive branch. Specifically, such orders must be rooted in Article II of the US Constitution or enacted by the congress in statutes. Attempts to block such orders have been successful at times when such orders exceeded the authority of the president or could be better handled through legislation.\n\nThe Office of the Federal Register is responsible for assigning the executive order a sequential number after receipt of the signed original from the White House and printing the text of the executive order in the daily \"Federal Register\" and eventually in Title 3 of the \"Code of Federal Regulations\".\n\nWith the exception of William Henry Harrison, all presidents, beginning with George Washington in 1789, have issued orders that in general terms can be described as executive orders. Initially, they took no set form. Consequently, such orders varied as to form and substance.\n\nThe first executive order was issued by George Washington on June 8, 1789, addressed to the heads of the federal departments, instructing them \"to impress me with a full, precise, and distinct general idea of the affairs of the United States\" in their fields.\n\nAccording to the political scientist Brian R. Dirck, the most famous executive order was by President Abraham Lincoln when he issued the Emancipation Proclamation on January 1, 1863. Dirck states:\n\nUntil the early 1900s, executive orders went mostly unannounced and undocumented and seen only by the agencies to which they were directed. That changed when the Department of State instituted a numbering scheme in 1907, starting retroactively with United States Executive Order 1 issued on October 20, 1862, by President Abraham Lincoln. The documents that later came to be known as \"executive orders\" apparently gained their name from this order issued by Lincoln, which was captioned \"Executive Order Establishing a Provisional Court in Louisiana\". This court functioned during the military occupation of Louisiana during the American Civil War, and Lincoln also used Executive Order 1 to appoint Charles A. Peabody as judge, and to designate the salaries of the court's officers.\n\nPresident Truman's Executive Order 10340 in \"Youngstown Sheet & Tube Co. v. Sawyer\", 343 US 579 (1952) placed all steel mills in the country under federal control. This was found invalid because it attempted to make law, rather than clarify or act to further a law put forth by the Congress or the Constitution. Presidents since this decision have generally been careful to cite which specific laws they are acting under when issuing new executive orders. Likewise, when presidents believe their authority for issuing an executive order stems from within the powers outlined in the Constitution, the order will simply proclaim \"under the authority vested in me by the Constitution\" instead.\n\nWars have been fought upon executive order, including the 1999 Kosovo War during Bill Clinton's second term in office. However, all such wars have had authorizing resolutions from Congress. The extent to which the president may exercise military power independently of Congress and the scope of the War Powers Resolution remain unresolved constitutional issues, although all presidents since its passage have complied with the terms of the resolution while maintaining that they are not constitutionally required to do so.\n\nPresident Truman issued 907 executive orders, with 1,081 orders by Theodore Roosevelt, 1,203 orders by Calvin Coolidge, and 1,803 orders by Woodrow Wilson. Franklin D. Roosevelt has the distinction of making a record 3,522 executive orders.\n\nPrior to 1932, uncontested executive orders had determined such issues as national mourning on the death of a president, and the lowering of flags to half-staff. President Franklin Roosevelt issued the first of his 3,522 executive orders on March 6, 1933, declaring a bank holiday, forbidding banks to release gold coin or bullion. Executive Order 6102 forbade the hoarding of gold coin, bullion and gold certificates. A further executive order required all newly mined domestic gold be delivered to the Treasury.\n\nBy Executive Order 6581, the president created the Export-Import Bank of the United States. On March 7, 1934, he established the National Recovery Review Board (Executive Order 6632). On June 29, the president issued Executive Order 6763 \"under the authority vested in me by the Constitution\", thereby creating the National Labor Relations Board.\n\nIn 1934, while Charles Evans Hughes was Chief Justice of the United States (in the time period known as the Hughes Court), the Court found that the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) was unconstitutional. The president then issued Executive Order 7073 \"by virtue of the authority vested in me under the said Emergency Relief Appropriation Act of 1935\", reestablishing the National Emergency Council to administer the functions of the NIRA in carrying out the provisions of the Emergency Relief Appropriations Act. On June 15, he issued Executive Order 7075, which terminated NIRA and replaced it with the Office of Administration of the National Recovery Administration.\n\nIn the years that followed, President Roosevelt replaced the outgoing judges with those more in line with his views, ultimately appointing Hugo Black, Stanley Reed, Felix Frankfurter, William O. Douglas, Frank Murphy, Robert H. Jackson and James F. Byrnes to the Court. Historically, only George Washington had equal or greater influence over Supreme Court appointments, choosing all of its original members. Justices Frankfurter, Douglas, Black, and Jackson dramatically checked presidential power by invalidating the executive order at issue in \"The Steel Seizure Case\" (i.e., ). In that case Roosevelt's successor, President Truman, had ordered private steel production facilities seized in support of the Korean War effort, but the Court held the executive order was not within the power granted to the President by the Constitution.\n\nLarge policy changes with wide-ranging effects have been implemented through executive order, including the racial integration of the armed forces under Harry Truman and the desegregation of public schools under Dwight D. Eisenhower.\n\nTwo extreme examples of an executive order are Franklin Roosevelt's Executive Order 6102 \"forbidding the hoarding of gold coin, gold bullion, and gold certificates within the continental United States\" and Executive Order 9066, which delegated military authority to remove any or all people in a military zone (used to target Japanese-Americans and German-Americans in certain regions). The order was then delegated to General John L. DeWitt, and subsequently paved the way for all Japanese-Americans on the West Coast to be sent to internment camps for the duration of World War II.\n\nPresident George W. Bush issued Executive Order 13233 in 2001, which restricted public access to the papers of former presidents. The order was criticized by the Society of American Archivists and other groups, who stated that it \"violates both the spirit and letter of existing U.S. law on access to presidential papers as clearly laid down in 44 USC 2201–07\", and adding that the order \"potentially threatens to undermine one of the very foundations of our nation\". President Barack Obama revoked Executive Order 13233 in January 2009.\n\nThe Heritage Foundation has accused presidents of abusing executive orders by using them to make laws without Congressional approval and moving existing laws away from their original mandates.\n\nIn 1935, the Supreme Court overturned five of President Franklin Roosevelt's executive orders (6199, 6204, 6256, 6284, 6855). , issued by President Bill Clinton in 1995, attempted to prevent the federal government from contracting with organizations that had strike-breakers on the payroll; a federal appeals court subsequently ruled that the order conflicted with the National Labor Relations Act, and invalidated the order.\n\nCongress has the power to overturn an executive order by passing legislation that invalidates it. Congress can also refuse to provide funding necessary to carry out certain policy measures contained with the order or to legitimize policy mechanisms. In the case of the former, the president retains the power to veto such a decision; however, the Congress may override a veto with a two-thirds majority to end an executive order. It has been argued that a congressional override of an executive order is a nearly impossible event, due to the supermajority vote required and the fact that such a vote leaves individual lawmakers vulnerable to political criticism.\n\nOn July 30, 2014, the Republican-led House of Representatives approved a resolution authorizing Speaker of the House John Boehner to sue President Barack Obama over claims that he exceeded his executive authority in changing a key provision of the Affordable Care Act (\"Obamacare\") on his own and over what Republicans claimed had been \"inadequate enforcement of the health care law\", which Republican lawmakers opposed. In particular, Republicans \"objected that the Obama administration delayed some parts of the law, particularly the mandate on employers who do not provide health care coverage\". The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia on November 21, 2014.\n\nPart of President Donald Trump's executive order Protecting the Nation from Foreign Terrorist Entry into the United States, which temporarily banned entry to the US from citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries, including for permanent residents, was stayed by a federal court on January 28, 2017.\n\nExecutive orders issued by state governors are not the same as statutes passed by state legislatures, but do have the force of law in a similar way to the federal system. State executive orders are usually based on existing constitutional or statutory powers of the governor and do not require any action by the state legislature to take effect<ref name= https://www.colorado.gov/governor/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://gov.georgia.gov/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://www.governor.wa.gov/office-governor/official-actions/executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://www.flgov.com/all-executive-orders></ref><ref name= https://rules.utah.gov/executive-documents></ref>\n\nExecutive orders may, for example, demand budget cuts from state government when the state legislature is not in session, and economic conditions take a downturn, thereby decreasing tax revenue below what was forecast when the budget was approved. Depending on the state constitution, a governor may specify what percentage each government agency must reduce by, and may exempt those that are already particularly underfunded, or cannot put long-term expenses (such as capital expenditures) off until a later fiscal year. The governor may also call the legislature into special session.\n\nThere are also other uses for gubernatorial executive orders. In 2007, for example, George \"Sonny\" Perdue, governor of Georgia, issued an executive order for all of its state agencies to reduce water use during a major drought. This was also demanded of its counties' water systems, but it is unclear whether the order would have the force of law.\n\nAccording to political expert Phillip J. Cooper, a presidential proclamation \"states a condition, declares a law and requires obedience, recognizes an event or triggers the implementation of a law (by recognizing that the circumstances in law have been realized).\" Presidents define situations or conditions on situations that become legal or economic truth. These orders carry the same force of law as executive orders—the difference between the two is that executive orders are aimed at those inside government while proclamations are aimed at those outside government.\n\nThe administrative weight of these proclamations is upheld because they are often specifically authorized by congressional statute, making them \"delegated unilateral powers.\" Presidential proclamations are often dismissed as a practical presidential tool for policy making because of the perception of proclamations as largely ceremonial or symbolic in nature. However, the legal weight of presidential proclamations suggests their importance to presidential governance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4128082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4128082", "title": "Fair debt collection", "text": "Fair debt collection\n\nFair debt collection broadly refers to regulation of the United States debt collection industry at both the federal and state level. At the Federal level, it is primarily governed by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act (FDCPA). In addition, many U.S. states also have debt collection laws that regulate the credit and collection industry and give consumer debtors protection from abusive and deceptive practices. Many state laws track the language of the FDCPA, so that they are sometimes referred to as \"mini-FDCPAs\".\n\nU.S. state laws on fair debt collection generally fall into two categories: laws which require persons who are collecting debts from consumers to be licensed, registered or bonded in order to collect from consumers in their states, and laws that protect consumers from specific unfair practices by debt collectors, which may include collection agencies and sometimes original creditors. Unlike the FDCPA, many state laws also apply to the debt collection activity of original creditors, thus providing greater protections to consumers than the Federal FDCPA.\n\nAlthough not all states have such laws, some states track violations of debt collection practices laws. Some states bar debt collectors from engaging in collection activity against residents of the state unless the collection agency has complied with state licensing or bonding requirements, while others exempt out-of-state collectors from those requirements. Many state fair debt collection laws provide for a private right of action (consumers can sue the debt collector) by consumers against debt collectors that violate their provisions.\n\nExamples of prohibitions of unfair practices by collectors include contacting employers after having been given notice not to do so, pretending to be a government agency, pretending to be an attorney or falsely threatening a debtor with a lawsuit. \n\nThe following states have their own debt collection laws, which can be found here:\n\n"}
{"id": "38925836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38925836", "title": "Gülkız Ürbül", "text": "Gülkız Ürbül\n\nGülkız Ürbül (1901–1990) was a Turkish woman who became the first female muhtar (village chief) in Turkey in 1933. She later on changed her name to Gül Esin Aydın.\n\nUp to 1930, women had no political rights in Turkey. Beginning in 1930, they gained suffrage in local elections by Act no. 1580, dated 3 April 1930. Three years later, by Act no. 2349, dated 26 October 1933, the eligibility for the post of muhtar was also included in suffrage.\n\nTwo weeks later, Ürbül was elected the muhtar in Demircidere village of the Çine district in Aydın Province, marking the first time a woman was elected a political office in Turkey. (The village of Demircidere was later declared a district named Karpuzlu.)\n\nIn the 1930s, Gülkız Ürbül was one of the few literate village women in Turkey. During the First World War and Turkish War of Independence, she had lost her husband and five of her six brothers. In the election campaign, she ran against seven male candidates and won the muhtar election. During her short term, she initiated the construction of a road between her village and Çine and founded a cooperative to build a village room. She also banned gambling.\n\nAfter the election, Mehmet Ali Bey, the governor of Çine, said that the district was proud to be the pioneer in having the first female muhtar in Turkey. Recep Peker, the secretary-general of the Republican People's Party (and later prime minister from 1946 to 1947), sent a telegram and congratulated Ürbül on becoming the first Turkish female muhtar and political officeholder.\n\nÜrbül spent the last 20 years of her life in the Nazilli district of Aydın Province, where she died on the 18 December, 1990. In 2011, the municipality of Aydın erected a bust of Gülkız.\n\n"}
{"id": "2000682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2000682", "title": "Habit evidence", "text": "Habit evidence\n\nHabit evidence is a term used in the law of evidence in the United States to describe any evidence submitted for the purpose of proving that a person acted in a particular way on a particular occasion based on that person's tendency to reflexively respond to a particular situation in a particular way.\n\nHabit evidence must be distinguished from character evidence, which seeks to show that a person behaved in a particular way on a particular occasion based on that person's prior bad acts, or based on the opinion of a witness, or based on that person's reputation in the community. Such character evidence is generally inadmissible.\n\nFederal Rule of Evidence 406 states, \"Evidence of the habit of a person or of the routine practice of an organization, whether corroborated or not and regardless of the presence of an eyewitness, is relevant to prove that the conduct of the person or organization on a particular occasion was in conformity with the habit or routine practice\".\n\nFor example, suppose there was a bar called \"Study Hall\" located near a college campus. \"Happy Hour Joe\" is the nickname of a regular patron of this bar, and he frequents the bar every day, Monday through Friday, at approximately 5:30 p.m. on his way home from work. Joe typically has 1 or 2 beers, and then leaves. A party could introduce this evidence of habit if the party wanted to show it was more probable that Joe was at Study Hall on Wednesday at 5:30 p.m. A party could also introduce the evidence if the party wanted to show it was more probable that, on his way home Wednesday at 6 p.m., Joe had been drinking. \n\nHowever, the evidence could not be introduced to show that Happy Hour Joe is an alcoholic, or that he is a careless driver. That would be character evidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "265229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=265229", "title": "Health claim", "text": "Health claim\n\nHealth claims on food labels and in food marketing are claims by manufacturers of food products that their food will reduce the risk of developing a disease or condition. For example, it is claimed by the manufacturers of oat cereals that oat bran can reduce cholesterol, which will lower the chances of developing serious heart conditions. Vague health claims include that the food inside is \"healthy\", \"organic\", \"low fat\", \"non-GMO\", \"no sugar added\", or \"natural\".\n\nHealth claims are also made for over-the-counter drugs and prescription drugs, medical procedures, and medical devices, but these generally have a separate, much more stringent set of regulations.\n\nIn the United States, dietary supplements are regulated as a separate type of consumer item from food or over-the-counter drugs.\n\nThe use of the label “Healthy” on a variety of foods has been a particular issue for many food quality advocacy groups. In their comments to the FDA, The Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) urged FDA officials to address the incongruity between current dietary recommendation/nutritional standards and their definition, CSPI argued that the current definition is too ambiguous and sets a low health standard that allows processed foods with minimal and low nutritional value to use this definition to entice consumers into making poor health choices. The CSPI claimed that the FDA’s current guidance on this issue could be potentially misleading and could incline customers to consume unhealthy foods without making informed decisions. CSPI and their research suggested that a new standard and more adequate definition should make it more difficult for processed food brands to obtain and misuse the “healthy” food label, ultimately giving consumers a better ability to make informed decisions based on the nutritional and health quality of the food they consume as opposed to relatively unsubstantiated claims.\n\nIn addition to using the “healthy” food label to draw customers to low nutrition foods, food marketers have used a variety of “low content,” like low fat, low calorie, etc claims to assuage consumer’s health concerns and to potentially mislead them. “Low content” claims are labels or other advertised claims that appear on packages and or in advertisements are used so that consumers perceive the products they buy as being healthier or more nutritious. Misleading food health assertions of this nature are both widespread in food marketing and also not reflective of the actual nutritional or health quality of the food or beverage in question. These claims are not consistent among all food and beverage groups, although some of them do accurately represent the nutritional and or health benefits of a certain food or beverage, often this does not guarantee that all claims across all beverages and foods are reflective of actual nutrition. Additionally, even if a certain product is in fact low fat or any one of the different types of “low content” claims, consumers often focus on the claim and neglect other health considerations like added sugars, calories, and other unhealthy ingredients.\n\nThe Food industry constantly confuses consumers. Some of the basic reasons why people are misled is because terms such as natural, non-GMO, trans-fat free, or kosher do not have consistent definitions for consumers to follow. Without clear standards or definitions, these claims are not informative of the true nutritional content of the food in question. Non-GMO products are often mistaken for organic, just because it is certified as non-GMO. Conventionally raised crops like corn, canola, and soy may be certified non-GMO if they are grown without genetically engineered seeds. Many snack chips being sold in stores use non-GMO ingredients grown with chemical pesticides. Non-GMO does not mean certified non-GMO. Many food products and nutritional products claim to be non-GMO but do not provide certification of that status. Any company that self-proclaims its products to be non-GMO has to back it up with certification. Trans-Fat Free does not mean the food is free from trans fats. In fact, in the U.S. alone, the FDA currently allows foods containing up to 0.5g of trans fats per serving to claim zero grams of trans fats per serving, which is completely misleading.\n\nChoosing one food item over another for reasons such as products claiming they are all natural or fat free do not always mean it’s healthier. The FDA does not define “natural” but if labeled so, the food must not contain added colors, artificial flavors, or synthetic substances. However, foods labeled natural can contain preservatives. Companies will argue that natural products that contain high fructose corn syrup are healthy because it comes from corn. No sugar added items are often bought but also not fully understood. Foods like fruit, milk, cereals, and vegetables naturally contain sugar. Although there may not have been added sugar, they still contain natural sugars. These sugar free products may contain added ingredients like maltodextrin, which is a carbohydrate. Carbohydrates may be simple sugars or complex starches that can raise blood sugar. Just because “no sugar added” is labeled does not mean the product is calorie free or carbohydrate free which most consumers often misunderstand. Most consumers are ignorant about the actual nutritional content of their foods and heavily rely on the food labels and claims that are provided on packages. This over-reliance on a variety of different claims has many implications including uninformed customer purchases and over-consumption of unhealthy foods.\n\nThe FDA has guidelines for what is considered a misleading label. There are rules for the size of the font and what to name food products. The name must include what the food actually is, that means if the food is canned carrots the can must have Carrots on the label. If an official name for the food does not exist, then the label must give the consumer some idea of what the food contains. The FDA states the name should be a “statement of identity,” meaning the company cannot make up a new name for an already existing food. Something must be called an imitation if its nutritional values are significantly different than the original food. With drinks/beverages that want to be called juice, it must have the percentage of the fruit or vegetable in the juice. The name of the juice must be from its more prominent fruit or vegetable by volume. For example Coca-Cola tried to sell pomegranate juice (POM Wonderful) which had only .3% pomegranate in it, so they had to change the label. For a beverage/drink to be called juice it must be 100% juice; if it is less than 100%, then it must be called a drink or beverage. \n\nMany companies have started to use their packaging for food as a marketing tool. Words such as “healthy”, “low-fat”, and “natural” have contributed to what is called the health-halo effect, which is when consumers overestimate the healthfulness of an item based on claims on the packaging. Food companies may incorporate whole grain and higher fiber levels into their products in order to advertise these advantages. However, there is no regulated amount of grain needed in a certain product to be able to advertise this benefit, and the product may not be as nutritious as advertised.\n\nOther studies have shown that marketing for food products has demonstrated an effect on consumers’ perceptions of purchase intent and flavor. One study in particular performed by Food and Brand Lab researchers at Cornell University looked at how an organic label affects consumers’ perceptions. The study concluded that the label claiming the product was “organic” altered perceptions in various ways. Consumers perceived these foods to have fewer calories and stated they were willing to pay up to 23.4% more for the product. The taste was supposedly “lower in fat” for the organic products as opposed to the regular ones. Finally, the study concluded that people who do not regularly read nutrition labels and who do not regularly buy organic food products are the most susceptible to this example of the health-halo effect.\n\nIn the United States, these claims, usually referred to as \"qualified health claims\", are regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the public interest.\n\nThe rule in place before 2003 required \"significant scientific consensus\" before a claim could be made, applying characterization of a hierarchy of degrees of certainty:\n\nSee the Wikipedia article on dietary supplements for a description of current FDA policy.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the law requires that any health claim on food labels must be true and not misleading. Food producers may optionally use the (Discontinued in 2010) Joint Health Claims Initiative to determine whether their claims are likely to be legally sustainable.\n\nIn early 2005 the European PASSCLAIM project (Process for the Assessment of Scientific Support for Claims on Foods), sponsored by the European Union and coordinated by ILSI-Europe (http://europe.ilsi.org/), ended. The aim of this project was to develop criteria for the scientific substantiation of claims on foods. Several hundreds of scientists from academia, research institutes, government and industry have contributed to the project. All the resulting papers can be downloaded for free from http://www.ilsi.org/Europe/Pages/PASSCLAIM_Pubs.aspx. The final consensus paper, comprising the final set of criteria, has been published in June 2005 in the European Journal of Nutrition.\n\nAn overview of current and future situations on health claims in the European Union including proposals, press releases and memos can be found on the European Commission website: http://ec.europa.eu/food/food/labellingnutrition/claims/index_en.htm.\n\nAll approved EU health claims translated into various European language available on http://ec.europa.eu/nuhclaims/\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5420497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5420497", "title": "Hearth tax", "text": "Hearth tax\n\nA hearth tax was a property tax in certain countries during the medieval and early modern period, levied on each hearth, thus by proxy on each family unit. It was calculated based on the number of hearths, or fireplaces, within a municipal area.\n\nHearth tax was levied in the Byzantine Empire from the 9th century, France and England from the 14th century, and finally in England, Scotland and Ireland in the 17th century.\n\nIn the Byzantine Empire a tax on hearths, known as kapnikon, was first explicitly mentioned for the reign of Nicephorus I (802–811), although its context implies that it was already then old and established and perhaps it should be taken back to the 7th century AD. Kapnikon was a tax levied on households without exceptions for the poor.\n\nIn the 1340s especially, the King of France's personal expenditure on dowries, gratuities, the upkeep of the palace, his travels and his wardrobe, consumed the entirety of the royal income. The fouage (Latin: \"focagium\") was assessed on the basis of households and was usually paid by towns in a pre-arranged lump sum raised in any manner the locality chose to employ. It existed in certain French provinces, and became widespread in the 14th century when the royal finances were unable to bear the rising costs of war and state agents. In particular, \"fouages\" were levied in 1342 and 1349.\n\nThe \"hearth-penny\" was an Anglo-Saxon term for \"Peter's pence\".\n\nIn England, hearth tax, also known as hearth money, chimney tax, or chimney money, was a tax imposed by Parliament in 1662, to support the Royal Household of King Charles II. Following the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660, Parliament calculated that the Royal Household needed an annual income of £1,200,000. The hearth tax was a supplemental tax to make up the shortfall. It was considered easier to establish the number of hearths than the number of heads, hearths forming a more stationary subject for taxation than people. This form of taxation was new to England, but had precedents abroad. It generated considerable debate, but was supported by the economist Sir William Petty. The bill received Royal Assent on 19 May 1662, with the first payment due on 29 September 1662, Michaelmas.\n\nOne shilling was liable to be paid for every firehearth or stove, in all dwellings, houses, edifices or lodgings, and was payable at Michaelmas, 29 September and on Lady Day, 25 March. The tax thus amounted to two shillings per hearth or stove per year. The original bill contained a practical shortcoming in that it did not distinguish between owners and occupiers and was potentially a major burden on the poor as there were no exemptions. The bill was subsequently amended so that the tax was paid by the occupier. Further amendments introduced a range of exemptions that ensured that a substantial proportion of the poorer people did not have to pay the tax.\n\nExemption certificates had to be signed by a minister, a churchwarden, or an overseer of the poor and two Justices of the Peace. From 1664, everybody whose home had more than two hearths was liable to pay the tax, even if otherwise exempt, and changes were made to reduce the scope for tax avoidance.\n\nRevenue generated in the first year was less than expected, so from 1663, the names and number of hearths were required to be listed even if non-liable. This additional detail has made the relevant hearth tax documents particularly useful to modern historians and other researchers. However, details of householders who were not liable to pay the tax were not recorded for all years of its operation, as they were not needed for audit purposes when the right to collect the tax was \"farmed\" for collection by contractors in return for their payment of a fixed premium.\n\nThe arrangements for collecting the hearth tax varied during its lifetime:\n\nThe tax fell most heavily on those who occupied the houses with the greatest number of hearths. For instance, in 1673-4 the Earl of Exeter had to pay for 70 hearths at Burghley House. In contrast, most householders who were liable to pay tax had only one or two hearths and a significant proportion of householders were not liable to pay at all.\n\nThe hearth tax was much resented because it often entailed inspection of the interior of dwellings by the sub-collectors and petty constables, who had legal authority to enter every property to check on the number of hearths. Some people stopped up their chimneys so that the tax was not due on them, but where this was discovered by the assessors the tax was doubled. On 31 July 1684, a fire in Churchill, Oxfordshire, destroyed 20 houses and many other buildings, and killed four people. It was apparently caused by a baker who, to avoid chimney tax, had knocked through the wall from her oven to her neighbour's chimney.\n\nAfter the Glorious Revolution, the hearth tax was repealed by the newly empowered English Parliament and agreed to by the newly installed William III and Mary II in 1689, as \n\"not only a great oppression to the poorer sort, but a badge of slavery upon the whole people, exposing every man’s house to be entered into, and searched at pleasure, by persons unknown to him.\"\n\nAt the end of the Glorious Revolution in 1688, William III and Mary II also agreed to and signed the English Bill of Rights 1689 marking a new level co-operation and power sharing between the Parliament and the English monarchs. The cancellation of the hearth tax and the signing of the Bill of Rights, etc. lead to a greater measure of legal protection for life, liberty, and property in England that encouraged and empowered the middle class at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution. This action both signalled the end of several centuries of tension and conflict between the crown and parliament, and the end of the idea that English kings had any \"divine rights\" and that England would be restored to Roman Catholicism. The new King William III and his wife Mary II were Protestant leaders from the Dutch Republic who were invited by Parliament to rule England. To make up for the loss of tax revenue, due to the cancellation of the hearth tax, uniform property taxes were imposed with few exclusions.\n\nIn 1690 the Parliament of Scotland granted a tax of 14 shillings on every hearth, payable by both landowners and tenants, to raise money for the army with only hospitals and the poor living on parish charity being exempt, the tax being collected from 1691-1695.\n\nUnlike in England, which abolished the Hearth Tax in 1689, it continued in the Kingdom of Ireland till the early 19th century although it underwent major reform at end of the 18th century. It was levied half yearly by the Sheriff of each county on the basis of lists of the names of householders compiled by local Justices of the Peace. The list of the households required to pay the Hearth Tax became known as the Hearth Money Rolls, which were arranged by county, barony, parish, and townland. The tax was sometimes collected over an area known as a 'walk', which was based on both the town and a large rural area outside the town.\n\nSeveral attempts were made in Parliament to abolish or at least limit the proportion of households obliged to pay the tax, which was widely regarded as “a shameful infliction upon the poor peasant, to whom even two or three shillings in the year for such a tax was a burden and a wrong”. The chief proposers of a radical change were Thomas Conolly and John O'Neill. In 1788, for example, they argued that for a substantial portion of those having to pay the tax, the yearly cash demand was an unreasonable burden. Henry Grattan developed the same point: \"I am convinced, that the man who has but five pounds in the world, and pays thirty shillings for his house, ought not to pay hearth-money; the strongest argument for his relief is the bare statement of his condition….The wretchedness of their living, and the misery of their consumption, is the reason why they scarcely pay any tax but the hearth-money, and is likewise a reason why they should not even pay hearth-money.\n\nMajor reform of the hearth tax was finally carried out in 1793 whereby one-hearth households with less than £10 in personal property, or with houses and land worth £5 or less, were henceforth deemed exempt from the tax. The measure was apparently a consequence of parliamentary pressure in the previous session; the modification of the window tax in Britain giving total relief to poorer householders had led to calls in the Irish Parliament for similar \"liberality\" in the light of Ireland's healthy finances. The Chancellor of the Exchequer (William Pitt) had refused, but a parliamentary committee was established under the de facto chairmanship of Mr G.P. Bushe who successfully proposed that one-hearth householders should be divided into two groups: those above and those below £5 in annual valuation. Subsequently, in 1795, freedom from hearth tax was extended to \"all\" one-hearth householders, as the opposition had earlier demanded; at the same time the tax on multiple-hearth houses was raised. The number of persons exempted from the hearth tax was estimated at between a million and a half to two million.\n\nThe original Hearth Money Rolls are not extant. The records were housed in the Four Courts in Dublin, the repository for the Public Records Office, but during the Irish Civil War in 1922 the building was destroyed by fire, which also destroyed the Rolls (along with the Ireland census records for 1821, 1831, 1841, and 1851), but copies of some of the Rolls have survived.\n\nThe comprehensiveness and near-national coverage of hearth tax returns differentiates this historical evidence from other pre-modern surveys and tax records. Unlike other taxation surveys, the hearth tax recorded the names of those who were not liable to pay the tax, and hence provides a means of looking at a full range of social groups.\nThe work of C.A.F. Meekings during the mid-twentieth century is an important resource for hearth tax research. It provides useful commentaries on hearth tax manuscripts in \"The National Archives\" (TNA), and arranges the hearth tax files in order according to the different systems of administration. Meekings' compilation of hearth tax accounts, which was published posthumously, is a useful resource for economic historians.\nFurther information on hearth taxes, as well as other Stuart taxes and loyalty lists, is provided by Jeremy Gibson, which offers a comprehensive summary of hearth tax returns and assessments, whether in TNA, county record offices, or other libraries and archives. Each digest includes a brief commentary on the date, geographical coverage, state of the manuscript, approximate number of names included, and details of complete or partially published editions.\n\nAn additional resource for hearth tax research is Elizabeth Parkinson’s study of the establishment of the tax and the complexities of its administration in the period 1662-66. This work provides assistance with deciphering the technical details of hearth tax documents, which otherwise might appear to be little more than lists of names and numbers.\n\nA principal focus of interest in the hearth tax lies in its application for understanding the distribution of wealth among social ranks within geographical areas. The method of connecting bands of hearth numbers to social categories was pioneered by William George Hoskins, looking at the city of Exeter. His system has subsequently been adjusted by local historians and, as Tom Arkell noted, these adaptations depend upon a ‘particular locality’s structure, but this diversity, combined with too many variables, prevents effective comparison between most of these [local] studies’.\n\nDuring the 1980s Arkell’s discussion of the eight hearth tax records for Kineton hundred in Warwickshire enabled detailed comparisons to be made between the data for 1662-1666 and 1669-1674, and to test the extent of the coverage of each record. This led him to conclude that ‘the proportions of different hearth tax categories remained remarkably stable for the hundred’s six best assessments’.\n\nA decade later, Margaret Spufford cleared a path for local historians interested in studying local variations in wealth and poverty at county and parish levels, and set out the relevance of the hearth tax to architectural history and genealogy. She developed Hoskins’ argument that the numbers of hearths in a household could be equated with levels of personal wealth, and that by organising the properties into groups determined by the number of hearths, historians could assess patterns of wealth and poverty which distinguished between social categories. She placed this system within a national template, and tested the divergences in wealth between counties, areas within counties, and parishes.\n\nTom Arkell responded in \"The Local Historian\", putting forward an alternative approach which drew upon an array of published and unpublished data. First, he argued for the aggregation of data from different returns in the mid-1660s and the early 1670s to produce more reliable statistics, thereby overcoming the problems of damaged or incomplete records. Second, he suggested that the percentage of households with three hearths and above provided a clear way of identifying regional variations in wealth, especially when groups of parishes with broadly similar percentages were grouped together into sub-regions. Third, he provided a national table of sub-regions graded by the proportion of dwellings with three hearths and over.\n\nBoth Arkell and Spufford used statistics and maps to enable readers to quickly appreciate the relative position of a parish, or groups of parishes, in relation to counterparts in a county, and to extrapolate to the national level by making comparisons between case studies.\n\nDuring the last thirty years traditional statistical approaches have been used to interpret the data. However, the British Academy Hearth Tax Project has recently made its electronic data from four hearth tax volumes available to the economic historians Chris Mimms and Patrick Wallis, who have used cliometrics in studying the social origins of apprentices in London. The development has been complemented by the on-line publication of hearth tax data, maps and statistics on Hearth Tax Online. Hearth Tax Online does not provide users—in the manner of new-style prosopographies which are often favoured in dealing with pre-modern lists of names—with access to a database with the capacity to sort heterogeneous data, in which factoids related to names are presented on the web without electronic access to the original texts from which the information has been drawn. When it comes to the hearth tax, it is vital to be able to see the names within the original order of the lists.\n\nA final word should be reserved for exemption certificates. Until recently there was relatively little concern with the exemption certificates that recorded the names of the householders who were not liable to pay the hearth tax. For the West Riding there are around 650 of these certificates, helping to fill the gaps for some areas where the exempt are under-recorded in the returns and assessments; while on other occasions the certificates enable us to provide names for aggregate statistics of the not liable recorded in the returns and assessments. This research facilitates further understanding of those people who were beneath the tax threshold and the terminology which was used to describe poorer property.\n\nThe is based at the University of Roehampton, London.\n\nThe Centre was established in 1995 (then known as the Centre for Hearth Tax Studies) under the direction of Professor Margaret Spufford. The current Director is Dr Andrew Wareham and the Project Manager is Dr John Price.\n\nIn 2000, the award of a grant from the Heritage Lottery Fund paid for the microfilming of all of the taxation returns stored in The National Archives and a publishing partnership was established between the Centre and the British Record Society which has led to the publication of a number of county volumes.\n\nIn 2004, The British Academy adopted the Hearth Tax Project and, in 2007 and 2009, the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC) made awards to fund a London and Middlesex Hearth Tax Project and a Collaborative Doctoral Studentship on Poverty in early-modern Essex.\n\nIn 2010, the Centre launched a platform for the publication and dissemination of research and analysis on hearth tax records and other associated documents.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11873257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11873257", "title": "Hein v. Freedom From Religion Foundation", "text": "Hein v. Freedom From Religion Foundation\n\nHein v. Freedom From Religion Foundation, 551 U.S. 587 (2007), was a decision by the United States Supreme Court which ruled that taxpayers do not have the right to challenge the constitutionality of expenditures by the executive branch of the government.\nThe issue was whether taxpayers have the right to challenge the existence of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. The case centered on three Supreme Court precedents: \"Flast v. Cohen\", , \"Bowen v. Kendrick\", , and \"Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church & State\", .\n\nIn a 5-4 vote the Supreme Court ruled that the Foundation did not have standing to sue and ordered the Appeals court finding reversed.\n\nIn January 2001, President George W. Bush created the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives within the Executive Office of the President by an Executive Order. Later Executive Orders created centers for the Office within the Departments of Justice, Labor, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, Education, and Agriculture, as well as at the Agency for International Development.\n\nThe Freedom From Religion Foundation and three of its members (Anne Nicol Gaylor, Annie Laurie Gaylor, and Dan Barker) filed an action against the Director of the White House Office and the Directors of Centers of the Office created within the above-mentioned Federal Departments. The Foundation and its members asserted standing based solely on their status as federal taxpayers. It was noted that \"Because the Foundation itself is a non-profit entity that is exempt from paying federal income taxes under 26 USC 501(c)(3), the Foundation lacks taxpayer status in its own right, and can assert it, if at all, only on behalf of its taxpaying members. See \"Simon v. Eastern Ky. Welfare Rights Org.\", 426 U.S. 26, 40 (1976).\"\n\nThe Foundation and its members complaint was over \"the use of money appropriated by Congress under Article I, section 8, to fund conferences that various executive branch agencies hold to promote President Bush’s 'Faith-Based and Community Initiatives.'\" The Foundation held that \"the defendant officials violated the Establishment Clause by organizing national and regional conferences at which faith-based organizations allegedly 'are singled out as being particularly worthy of federal funding because of their religious orientation, and the belief in God is extolled as distinguishing the claimed effectiveness of faith-based social services.'\" They also alleged that \"the defendant officials 'engage in myriad activities, such as making public appearances and giving speeches, throughout the United States, intended to promote and advocate for funding for faith-based organizations.'\" They further asserted that \"Congressional appropriations [are] used to support the activities of the defendants.\"\n\nThe Foundation and its members sought a \"declaratory judgment that the officials' activities violate the Establishment Clause, an injunction prohibiting further 'use [of] appropriations in violation of the Establishment Clause,' and 'an order requiring the defendants to establish rules, regulations, prohibitions, standards and oversight to ensure that future appropriations' comport with the Establishment Clause.\"\n\nThe Directors of the White House Office and its centers, moved that the complaint against them be dismissed for lack of standing.\n\nThe motion to dismiss the complaint for lack of standing was granted by the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin. The court held Establishment Clause challenge standing was limited to \"exercises of congressional power under the taxing and spending clause of Article 1, § 8.\" They held that the action of the directors \"are not 'exercises of congressional power' as required by the \"Flast\" test.\"\n\nThe court noted that in \"Bowen v. Kendrick\", 487 U.S. 589 (1988) it was \"clarified that the disbursement of federal funds by an Executive agency in the administration of a congressional program could be challenged consistent with \"Flast\"\", but they pointed out that \"The President established the White House OFBCI by Executive Order and funded it with general budget appropriations.\" They found that this meant that the Director of the office and other officials working within the program \"have no congressional mandate. Rather, he acts at the President’s request and on the President’s behalf\", so none of them were \"charged with the administration of congressional programs.\" They stated that \"The view that federal taxpayers as such should be permitted to bring Establishment Clause challenges to all Executive Branch actions on the grounds that those actions are funded by congressional appropriations, has never been accepted by a majority of the Supreme Court.\"\n\nThe Foundation and its members had also brought suit against Rod Paige, United States Secretary of Education from 2001 to 2005. This was over a keynote speech at a White House\nConference on Faith-Based and Community Initiatives in October 2002 where Paige said \"With the stroke of a pen, the President signaled that this Administration will knock down any barrier,\nwill do whatever it takes to get people of faith and goodwill involved in helping solve some of the problems in our society today. Now, President Bush does this because he knows first-hand that power of faith to change lives—from the inside out. And the reason he knows this is\nbecause faith changed his life... He grew up in church, but like most of us, he didn’t always walk the walk. Many years ago, at a particularly low point in his life, he realized that\nsomething was missing. Fortunately for him, he bumped into the Reverend Billy Graham. And they had a long, long, long conversation. And he made a decision coming out of that conversation that changed his life. And he believes that if it can change his life, it can change the lives of others as well. And that is why he is so committed to this. So the reason we’re all here today is not because some politician needs to knock off one more thing on his ‘to do’ list. We are here because we have a President, who is true, is a true man of God. A man who prays every day. And I think together, we can really make a difference for mankind, for Americans, we can make America a better place. We can, and I enjoyed the prayer, as we began, served, getting food. He said, if the Jews could be better Jews, and if Christians could be better Christians, if all of us could just be a little better ourselves, what a difference that would make in this world, what a difference that would make.\" The Foundation and its members had held that this \"gave the appearance of endorsing religion.\"\n\nThe court ruled \"These statements...are too far removed from any congressional action taken pursuant to the taxing and spending clause of Art. I, § 8, of the Constitution to satisfy the\n\"Flast\" test. Defendant Paige will be dismissed\".\n\nThe Foundation also voluntarily dismissed several \"claims that the heads of certain federal agencies had violated the Establishment Clause by 'directly and preferentially fund[ing]' particular programs that allegedly 'integrate religion as a substantive and integral component' of their activities.\" They maintained their claims on two programs administered by the Secretary of Health and Human Services.\n\nThe Foundation and its members had requested a summary judgment against Emory University and MentorKids USA.\n\nEmory University had received funds from the Department of Health and Human Services' Compassion Capital Fund Grant for its \"Strong Partners Initiative\". Emory divided and distributed some of this funding to other groups that met its criteria. The Foundation claimed that Emory's use of the government funds had violated the Establishment Clause by giving \"preferential treatment to religious organizations in their selection of organizations for subawards under the grant.\" The court granted the petition to make summary judgment holding that the Foundation did have standing under \"Flast\" because the grant issued to Emory stemmed from a program Congress established in the Promoting Safe and Stable Families Amendments of 2001, Pub. L. No. 107-133. Upon review of the claims brought forward by the Foundation the court did not find that Emory's selection process favored religious organizations, and ruled that the Foundation \"failed to demonstrate the existence of a genuine issue of material fact as to Emory University’s CCF grant.\" The court agreed with the government that as the Foundation had failed to substantiate claims against Emory there was no real dispute and so summary judgment could be, and was, made \"in favor of defendants against plaintiffs affirming the Department of Health and Human Service's\nCompassion Capital Fund Grant to Emory University.\"\n\nThe Foundation also asked for a summary judgment on whether the group MentorKids USA a recipient of a subaward from Emory had violated the Establishment Clause. Again the court cited \"Flast\" and the same Congressional act as it had above to grant the Foundation standing in this instance as well. MentorKids' stated mission was to \"exalt the Lord Jesus Christ as the Son of God,\" they hired only Christians as mentors, and required them to give monthly reports on the progression of their mentee's \"relationship with God.\" Upon learning of this the Department of Health and Human Service had suspended MentorKids' grant. The court acknowledged that the grant had been suspended but ruled that \"Defendants must bear the heavy burden to prove that there is no reasonable expectation that the wrong will be repeated. ...Defendants have failed to meet this burden, having failed to provide sufficient assurances that the grant will not be reinstated.\" Because of this the court made summary judgment for the Foundation ruling that the \"grant to MentorKids USA is vacated and further funding is denied as it relates to its present structure.\"\n\nThe district court's decision was appealed and heard by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals on Sept. 13, 2005. The Appeals court made a decision on January 13, 2006 that vacated the order of dismissal and remanded the decision. The court’s majority held that \"'Taxpayers have standing to challenge an executive-branch program, alleged to promote religion, that is financed by a congressional appropriation, even if the program was created entirely within the executive branch, as by Presidential executive order,' as long as the actions of the Executive Branch officials are financed by general appropriations.\" The majority held that taxpayer standing \"extends beyond programs that allocate federal funding to third parties, and includes challenges to any Executive Branch activity funded \"from appropriations for the general administrative expenses, over which the President and other executive branch officials have a degree of discretionary power…[as opposed to funding] from, say, voluntary donations by private citizens.\" They held that standing exists even without a statutory program enacted by Congress and even if the taxpayer is \"unable to identify the appropriations that fund the [challenged activity]\".\n\nThe court rejected the government's position that programs created solely from the Executive branch funded through general appropriations were beyond challenge by individual taxpayers. They put forward a hypothetical saying that if \"the Secretary of Homeland Security, who has unearmarked funds in his budget, decided to build a mosque and pay an Imam a salary to preach in it because the Secretary believed that federal financial assistance to Islam would reduce the likelihood of Islamist terrorism in the United States\" this would surely not be allowed to stand. They said that in \"the hypothetical case of the mosque, and in the real though much less dramatic case before us, the objection is to a program for which money undoubtedly is \"appropriated,\" albeit by executive officials from discretionary funds handed them by Congress, rather than by Congress directly.\"\n\nThe court noted that the plaintiffs were challenging not \"the grants but the conferences\" which are \"concerned in part with instructing the attendants on how to apply for government grants for their religious organizations\". They held that the government's position that only the grants could be challenged, not the conferences \"would be artificial because there is so much that executive officials could do to promote religion in ways forbidden by the establishment clause (which despite its wording applies to executive as well as congressional action, \"American Civil Liberties Union of Illinois v. City of St. Charles\", supra, 794 F.2d at 270) without making outright grants to religious organizations. For the government to operate a mosque or other place of worship would not involve a grant unless a contractor was involved.\"\n\nThe court dismissed the government's position that there could be no standing because the plaintiffs had not shown that their taxes were increased because general Congressional appropriations to the Executive branch were used to support the activities of the directors. They held that producing a proof that would show how many funds the plaintiffs would save if the situation was different was unnecessary in cases like this one as \"the tangible harm would often be zero because if the complained-of expenditure was enjoined, the money would probably be used to defray some other public expense that would not benefit the taxpayer, rather than returned to him in the form of a lower tax rate.\"\n\nAppeals court Judge Kenneth Francis Ripple wrote a dissent that said allowing such taxpayer challenges to the conduct of Executive Branch officials \"so long as that conduct was financed in some manner by a congressional appropriation\" reflects a \"dramatic expansion of current standing doctrine.\" He held that the Judiciary had allowed taxpayer standing in Establishment Clause cases to prevent Congress from \"supporting a sectarian cause through the transfer of public funds,\" as this was \"one of the specific evils feared by those who drafted the Establishment Clause and fought for its adoption.\" Judge Ripple pointed to the general rule that a plaintiff had to “establish a nexus between his status as a taxpayer and the precise nature of the constitutional infringement alleged.” He held that the Foundation and its members had failed to “set forth with sufficient rigor a nexus between their status as taxpayers and an exercise of the congressional power under the Taxing and Spending Clause.” He wrote that they should not be given standing as “A lawsuit based on such undifferentiated injury—a mere disagreement with the government policy—is hardly the case and controversy within the jurisdiction of the federal courts.”\n\nIn support of his position Ripple pointed to \"Schlesinger v. Reservists Committee to Stop the War\", 418 U.S. at 228, 94 S. Ct. 2925 which denied standing to taxpayer plaintiffs because they “did not challenge an enactment under Art. I, § 8, but rather the action of the Executive Branch”. He also pointed to the decision of the D.C. Circuit Court decision in \"District of Columbia Common Cause v. District of Columbia\", 858 F.2d 1, 3-4 (D.C. Cir. 1988) which held that the \"[Supreme] Court has never recognized federal taxpayer standing outside [of \"Flast\"’s] narrow facts, and it has refused to extend \"Flast\" to exercises of executive power.\"\n\nThe government filed a petition for rehearing by the Appeals court but it was denied on May 3, 2006 by a vote of 7-4. Two of the judges voting against the rehearing gave their reasoning writing that \"the obvious tension which has evolved in this area of jurisprudence...can only be resolved by the Supreme Court...[and] the needed consideration\nof this important issue by that tribunal would be unnecessarily delayed by our further deliberation.\" The dissenting judges who voted for the case to be reheard at the Appeals level wrote that \"the panel’s decision 'has serious implications for judicial governance,' and 'departs significantly from established Supreme Court precedent and\ncreates an inter-circuit conflict...the Supreme Court, in making an exception to usual standing rules for taxpayers has drawn a very clean line in order to avoid making the federal courts a forum for all sorts of complaints about the conduct of governmental affairs on no basis other than citizen standing.'\"\n\nThe government petitioned the Supreme Court to hear the case saying that the appeals court decision \"transforms taxpayer standing in the Establishment Clause context from a narrow exception, designed to prevent the specific historic evil of direct legislative subsidization of religious entities, into a roving license for any 'individual citizen to challenge any action of the executive with which he disagrees, as violative of the establishment Clause.'\" The petition said the ruling \"cuts taxpayer standing from its constitutional and historical moorings\" and contravened judicial precedents \"and the\ndecisions of other circuits.\" Certiorari was granted on December 1, 2006.\n\nThe Directors' position was argued for by a team headed by United States Solicitor General Paul Clement. They cited \"Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife\", 504 U.S. 555, 560 (1992) saying that the Judiciary was Constitutionally limited to hear \"actual 'Cases' and 'Controversies.'\" For this to be so, the plaintiff must \"have suffered an 'injury in fact' in the form of the 'invasion of a legally protected interest,' that is both 'concrete and particularized' and 'actual or imminent, not conjectural or hypothetical.'\" They cited \"DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno\", 126 S. Ct. 1854, 1862 (2006), saying that \"Standing has been rejected in such cases because the alleged injury is not 'concrete and particularized,' but instead a grievance the taxpayer 'suffers in some indefinite way in common with people generally,' and because the injury is not 'actual or imminent,' but instead 'conjectural or hypothetical.'\" On a similar note they cited \"Frothingham v. Mellon\", 262 U.S. 447, 487 (1923) that \"a federal taxpayer’s interest in the moneys of the treasury 'is shared with millions of others; is comparatively minute and indeterminable; and the effect upon future taxation, of any payment out of the funds, so remote, fluctuating and uncertain, that no basis is afforded for an appeal to the preventive powers of a court of equity.'\"\n\nThe government's lawyers also cited \"Valley Forge Christian Coll. v. Americans United for Separation of Church & State, Inc.\", 454 U.S. 464, 474 (1982), saying \"'Proper regard for the complex nature of our constitutional structure requires' that courts not 'hospitably accept for adjudication claims of constitutional violation by other branches of government where the claimant has not suffered cognizable injury.'\" They pointed out that in the \"Valley Forge\" case the plaintiffs had not been granted standing because they were challenging \"not a congressional action, but a decision by [a federal agency] to transfer a parcel of federal property.\" The Court had ruled that \"the expenditure of public funds in an allegedly unconstitutional manner is not an injury sufficient to confer standing... [and taxpayer standing is confined to] \"challenges directed only [at] exercises of congressional power.\" \"A constitutional objection to \"a particular Executive Branch action arguably authorized by [an] Act [of Congress]\" will not suffice.\" In further support of their position that \"Flast\" was limited to acts of Congress the government also cited decisions of Appeals Court of the Second Circuit, namely \"In re United States Catholic Conference\", 885 F.2d 1020 (1989), cert. denied, 495 U.S. 918 (1990) and \"Lamont v. Woods\", 948 F.2d 825 (1991) (which they saw as upholding not limiting the \"Catholic Conference\" decision as the Foundation did).\n\nIn rebuttal to the Foundation's protest that the directors \"engage in myriad activities, such as making public appearances and giving speeches, throughout the United States, intended to promote and advocate for funding for faith-based organizations\" the government said \"that\npay for the federal officials' salaries and offices, which would be appropriated whether or not the officials engaged in the conduct respondents challenge.\" They likened the situation to those behind the ruling of \"Doremus v. Board of Education\", 342 U.S. 429 (1952) where standing was not granted as school teachers would receive the same salary whether they read from the Old Testament or did not. The government likened the use of funds to hold conferences for religious organizations seeking funding to the \"payment of government officials' salaries when they make speeches or attend meetings, even with religious content.\" They held that if the Court allowed the Appeals court position to stand then taxpayers could sue over the use of taxes to fund the electricity to power the microphone and the lights during a speech where the President might express his own religious sentiments. They pointed out that \"from President Washington to President Lincoln to the present day, Presidents and other Executive Branch officials have made speeches invoking religion and have met with religious leaders without constitutional incident.\"\n\nThe government also maintained that a secular applicant for a grant who believed that their organization was passed up because they were not religious \"even apart from \"Flast\"...would have standing to sue.\" They also held that while it was true that there might be \"no available plaintiff to challenge the preliminary deliberative process that led to the grant, that is only because deliberations, apart from the disbursement of funds, inflict, at most, an inchoate injury.\"\n\nThe Freedom from Religion Foundation and its members point out that even the government lawyers did not deny that the funds involved \"derived from Congressional tax appropriations.\" They said the government was trying to \"distinguish between general budget appropriations made by Congress and tax appropriations made to specific 'spending programs.'\" They said such a claim of distinction \"is not based upon any principle of differential responsibility or culpability by Congress in making appropriations that are allegedly misused.\" They held that the government was urging the Court to accept the idea of distinction because of \"a belief that the executive branch should be able to use Congressional tax appropriations without accountability under the Establishment Clause.\"\n\nThe Foundation pointed to \"Bowen v. Kendrick\", 487 U.S. 589 (1988), saying that in that case the Congress had made a program that was not in violation of the Establishment Clause but the Court allowed taxpayer standing because the Executive branch was accused of violating the Establishment Clause in its execution of the program. They said \"Despite the blamelessness of Congress in \"Bowen\", the Supreme Court further considered whether the expenditure of tax appropriations was unconstitutional 'as applied.' The defendants in \"Bowen\" argued that a challenge to expenditures 'as applied' was really a challenge to executive action, not to an exercise of Congressional authority under the Taxing and Spending Clause. The Court rejected this argument.\" From this the Foundation concluded that \"The originating source of misused funds from tax appropriations is the critical taxpayer standing factor, rather than any decisional culpability by Congress for the actual misuse.\"\n\nThey argued that the Seventh Circuit Court's decision granting standing should be upheld for \"to hold otherwise would countenance a distinction without a meaning – and insulate a substantial part of federal spending of taxpayer appropriations from any obligation to comply with the Establishment Clause. ...[and] would support the unprecedented proposition that entire blocks of executive spending would not be subject to the Establishment Clause, i.e., as an executive function that is merely funded by taxpayer appropriations. ...[The government's] argument would support the incongruous proposition that such spending, when pursued by the executive branch with Congressional appropriations, cannot be challenged by taxpayers objecting to the use of tax appropriations to endorse religion.\"\n\nThe Foundation and its members said that the government was arguing \"implicitly, but incorrectly assumes that the Establishment Clause operates only as a limitation on Congress.\" They pointed out that the courts \"have consistently recognized that the executive branch is subject to the prohibitions of the Establishment Clause. In \"Schrum v. City of Coweta\", 449 F.3d 1132, 1140-1143 (10th Cir. 2006), the Eleventh Circuit rejected an argument that the First Amendment proscriptions do not apply to executive action. The Court recognized that the Supreme Court has assumed on countless occasions that the Free Exercise Clause applies to executive action. Similarly, in the present case, the fact that executive branch actions are challenged is not a bar to an Establishment Clause claim; taxpayer standing requires only that the executive action involve the misuse of tax money raised through a Congressional appropriation.\"\n\nThe Foundation said that the Appeals Court \"rejected the argument that general budget appropriations may be used by executive officials to endorse religion.\" In support of this finding they also cited \"Minnesota Federation of Teachers v. Randall\", 891 F.2d 1354, 1358 (8th Cir. 1989), where \"the Eighth Circuit specifically rejected any notion that taxpayers only have standing where a special tax assessment was levied to pay for an expenditure that promoted religion.\" In \"Randall\" the court said that if such a rule was adopted \"when expenditures are made from general funds, no one would be able to challenge Establishment Clause violations. We believe taxpayer standing was created to specifically permit the airing of establishment claims.\" The Foundation also cited \"Mehdi and Chankan v. United States Postal Service\", 988 F. Supp. 721 (S.D.N.Y. 1997), which \"involved a claim that the United States Postal Service violated the Establishment Clause by maintaining sectarian displays with federal tax appropriations. The court concluded that the plaintiffs had standing as taxpayers to challenge the government expenditures, made pursuant to Congress’ Taxing and Spending power, as violative of the Establishment Clause.\" They said that under the government's argument \"such expenditures would not be actionable by taxpayers because they are not part of a Congressional 'spending program.'\"\n\nThe Foundation said that the government's call for a distinction to \"be recognized between appropriations for 'Congressional programs' and 'general budget appropriations' made to fund executive operations\", was not recognized conceptually or legally. They said the government had cited \"no decision that recognizes such a distinction between Congressional appropriation bills, nor is the distinction between Congressional appropriation bills, nor is the distinction provided with any conceptual plausibility.\" They said \"The Constitution does not distinguish between Congressional appropriations made to administrative 'spending programs' and Congressional budget appropriations made to the executive branch. All appropriations require Congressional legislative action. The Congressional 'power of the purse' refers to this exclusive power of Congress to appropriate funds, which power derives from specific provisions of the Constitution, including Article I, § 8, which empowers Congress to 'pay the Debts and provide for the common Defense and general Welfare of the United States.' The Appropriations Clause, Article I, § 9, Cl. 7, further provides that 'no Money shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in Consequence of Appropriations made by Law.'\"\n\nThe Foundation held that the Appropriations Clause negated the government's claim that there was a distinction between Congressional programs and general budget appropriations. They cited \"Cincinnati Soap Co. v. United States\", 301 U.S. 308, 321 (1937) \"No money can be paid out of the Treasury unless it has been appropriated by an act of Congress.\" They said \"Regardless of the nature of the payment – salaries, payments promised under contract, etc., no payment may be made from the United States Treasury unless Congress has made the funds available. As the Supreme Court stated more than a century ago: 'However much money may be in the Treasury at one time, not a dollar of it can be used in the payment of anything not previously sanctioned by a Congressional appropriation.' \"Reeside v. Walker\", 52 U.S. 272, 291 (1850). ...the Supreme Court has consistently held that any exercise of power by a government agency 'is limited by a valid reservation of Congressional control over funds in the Treasury.' \"Office of Personnel Management v. Richmond\", 496 U.S. 414, 425 (1990), 'Money may be paid out only through an appropriation made by law; in other words, the payment of money from the Treasury must be authorized by a statute.' \"Id.\" at 424. As a consequence, budget appropriation bills are enacted by Congress just as all other legislation. The Supreme Court described this process in \"Clinton v. City of New York\", 524 U.S. 417, 448 (1998).\n\nThe Foundation said that the government's claim that if standing was allowed that this \"opened a floodgate\" of litigation into the Federal courts. They pointed out that \"Flast\" \"only allows taxpayer standing to challenge misuse of Congressional appropriations that are used to endorse religion.\" They said that despite the \"Flast\" decision in 1968 there has been no flood, \"Limiting taxpayer standing to Establishment Clause transgressions has been an effective gatekeeper. ...[the government lawyers] incorrectly claim that recognition of standing would open the courthouse doors to all generalized grievances that citizens may have with policies pursued by the government. Only misuses of appropriations in violation of the Establishment Clause confer taxpayer standing.\"\n\nIn addition to the positions laid out above both sides expanded their statements before the Supreme Court.\n\nSolicitor General Paul D. Clement told the Court that he believed that even if the program had been set up by Congress instead of by an Executive Order there would still not be any standing for a taxpayer to sue, \"Because there has to be two things. There has to be a statute. And then there has to be an allegation that the statute creates a unique injury in the context of spending that affects taxpayers differently than anybody—than any other citizen. And if you have a situation...where you don't have any spending that goes outside of the Government, then you might have an establishment clause problem, but it wouldn't be an establishment clause problem where the nub of the problem is the fact that money is spent.\"\n\nWhen asked by Justice Antonin Scalia \"If the congressional statute says the Government will build a church, that's okay, because then the money doesn't go outside the Government?\" Clement said there would be no taxpayer standing in the case of an \"internal Government church\" but \"Anybody who's subjected to the mass at the church probably has standing\". He opined that \"in the context of the internal Government church, the fact that money is being spent to establish that church is the least of your concerns. It's the fact that the Government is establishing it [in violation of the Establishment clause of the First Amendment] that's the principal concern.\"\n\nClement said that whether taxpayers would have standing if the government hired an outside party to hold the conferences for the Faith Based and Community Initiatives program would be dependent on circumstances. He opined that it would be likely that a taxpayer would have standing if the program paid for plane tickets for ministers, but when pressed by Scalia clarified that he thought if the funds were coming from the President and \"he's taking it from a general appropriation that makes no indication it's to go outside the Government so one could not in any way articulate that as an as-applied challenge to the appropriations, then I suppose that there would not be standing.\"\n\nWhen Justice Stephen Breyer asked if \"Congress passes a law and it says it's a very nice thing to commemorate the Pilgrims by building a Government church at Plymouth Rock, where we will have the regular worship in the Puritan religion. Now can a taxpayer from California in your view challenge that?\" Clement responded \"I say no. I would say no, no.\" Because in his reading of \"Flast\", \"You need a congressional statute that is an exercise of the taxing and spending authority; but then you need the money to go outside the Government.\" Breyer than asked if \"All over America, they build churches dedicated to one religion; and Congress passes a statute and says in every city, town, and hamlet, we are going to have a minister, a Government minister, a Government church, and dedicated to the proposition that this particular sect is the true sect; and they pass a statute like that, nobody could challenge it?\" Clement answered \"I think the bottom line is that there would not be taxpayer standing. Plenty of people could probably challenge that [as a violation of the Establishment Clause].\"\n\nClements agreed with Chief Justice John Roberts's summary of the government's position \"is simply that somebody -somebody in Oregon can't challenge the fact that they're building a church in Florida simply because the person in Florida pays taxes\". Clements also answered a question from Justice Samuel Alito admitting that his argument was not designed to \"make a lot of sense in an abstract sense\" but \"is the best that can be done within the body of precedent that the Court has handed down in this area\".\n\nOn behalf of the Foundation and its members attorney Andrew J. Pincus, co-director of the Yale Law School Supreme Court Clinic, addressed the Court. He said that there was nothing in Judicial history declaring that for standing to be allowed within \"Flast\" the money has to go outside the Government. For an example he pointed out that \"the lower courts and this Court at least in part have found taxpayer standing to challenge the salaries paid to chaplains that are employed by the Government\".\n\nChief Justice Roberts asked if under the Foundation's interpretation of \"Flast\" a taxpayer could \"sue our Marshal for standing up and saying 'God save the United States and this honorable Court.' Her salary comes from Congress.\" Pincus said he thought standing would not apply in that situation because \"We think that the limitations that are in this Court's opinions require the taxpayer to identify a discrete and identifiable non-incidental expenditure.\"\n\nJustice Scalia asked if under the Appeal's court ruling standing would be given a taxpayer against the President as \"It is easy to tell from time sheets and other things how much money is expended on Air Force One and on security for the President when he goes to address a religious organization, okay. And he urges the importance of religion in American life and so forth. The whole trip is about religion. That's measurable.\" Pincus stated that \"the court of appeals said, that this Court has identified a second limitation, which is not incidental. The money has to be central—the money that's being challenged has to be central to the violation. Just as you couldn't challenge a prayer breakfast\". As in \"Bowen\" there had to be \"a specific action that allocated a specific amount of money\". Pincus opined that no taxpayer would be given standing to sue agents of the United States Secret Service for accompanying a President on a trip for a religious purpose as they would be there \"protecting him for a protection purpose. His trip is for a religious purpose. And I think our submission is that there is a distinction that can be drawn there.\"\n\nPincus opined that a distinction could be made between funds that were spent incidentally (such as gasoline for Air Force One) and non-incidental expenditures (such as funding a conference for outreach to religious organizations). Both Justices Roberts and Scalia expressed concern that if they found for the Foundation it would mean the courts would have to continually decide if taxpayers had standing by trying to determine \"whether the expenditure was incidental or not\". Pincus responded \"the Court also said in Allen against Wright, you know, the absence of precise standards does not leave the courts at sea in applying the law of standing. Standing isn't an area, really, that is susceptible to precise definitions.\"\n\nPincus rejected the government's argument that there was no standing without involvement of a third party saying the idea that \"the Government could hire a corps of chaplains and send them out to civilians and to the populace at large and that couldn't be challenged, because all it is executive pay...makes no sense. ...if history indicates anything it's that concerns about establishment were focused just as much on the King as on the Parliament in terms of the history that the framers understood.\"\n\nIn his rebuttal Clement assured the Court that \"if this Court recognizes that there is not taxpayer standing, that does not mean that there won't be lawsuits, that there won't be directly injured plaintiffs that can bring claims. \"Doremus\" and \"Schempp\" [\"v. School District of Abington Township\"] prove that point. But even more broadly, any time the establishment clause injury takes the form of alleged coercive conduct the individuals who are coerced are going to have standing to bring the suit.\"\n\nClements pointed out that \"The property distribution plan at issue in \"Valley Forge\" took a tremendous amount of appropriated funds to run. Nobody thought that was a basis for taxpayer standing. The Bibles that were purchased and the salaries of the teachers in \"Doremus\" presumably cost at least a threepence. But that was not found enough.\"\n\nHe asked the Court \"to focus on this word 'incidental.' ...In the context of money going to third party religious entities, nobody would say that the spending is incidental. It's the whole violation. In the context of Bible reading or anything else the Executive Branch does, the fact that money went to fund the Executive Branch to violate the establishment clause is the least of the problems. The problem is the primary conduct of the Executive Branch in violating the establishment clause, but that's not a spending injury. The funding that goes into that is incidental. I think that's the way to make sense of this Court's cases.\"\n\nHe asked the Court to reflect on what was being challenged in the case, \"that the Executive Branch officials at the conferences spent too much time talking about faith-based groups and not enough talking about community-based groups. If that isn't intrusive on the Executive Branch, I don't know what is.\" Clements said that if the Court had to reverse \"Flast\" it should not be afraid to do so, \"if you have to choose between the logic of Flast and the irreducible minimum requirements of Article III, I think it's an easy choice. You don't abandon the basic requirements of Article III that distinguish the Judiciary from the political branches of Government.\"\n\nIn a 5-4 vote the Supreme Court ruled that the Foundation did not have standing to sue and ordered the Appeals court finding reversed.\n\nThe plurality opinion was written by Justice Alito, and was joined by Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Anthony Kennedy. Alito wrote \"\"Flast\" focused on congressional action, and we must decline this invitation to extend its holding to encompass discretionary Executive Branch expenditures. ...It is significant that, in the four decades since its creation, the \"Flast\" exception has largely been confined to its facts.\" He wrote \"The link between congressional action and constitutional violation that supported taxpayer standing in \"Flast\" is missing here. ...We have never found taxpayer standing under such circumstances.\"\n\nAlito cited \"Frothingham\", \"The administration of any statute, likely to produce additional taxation to be imposed upon a vast number of taxpayers, the extent of whose several liability is indefinite and constantly changing, is essentially a matter of public and not of individual concern ...Because the interests of the taxpayer are, in essence, the interests of the public-at-large, deciding a constitutional claim based solely on taxpayer standing 'would be[,] not to decide a judicial controversy, but to assume a position of authority over the governmental acts of another and co-equal department, an authority which plainly we do not possess.'\" He also cited \"Lujan v. Defenders of Wildlife\", 504 U. S. 555, 573–574 (1992) \"a plaintiff raising only a generally available grievance about government—claiming only harm to his and every citizen’s interest in proper application of the Constitution and laws, and seeking relief that no more directly and tangibly benefits him than it does the public at large—does not state an Article III case or controversy.\"\n\nAlito wrote that he was not convinced that if they ruled for the Foundation it would not open a floodgate of lawsuits, \"Because almost all Executive Branch activity is ultimately funded by some congressional appropriation, extending the Flast exception to purely executive expenditures would effectively subject every federal action—be it a conference, proclamation or speech—to Establishment Clause challenge by any taxpayer in federal court.\" In support of this he cited the Foundations own claim against the speech of Rod Paige that had been dismissed by the district court.\n\nAlito also noted that to allow standing in this type of case \"would also raise serious separation-of-powers concerns.\" He cited \"Richardson\", 418 U. S., at 188 (Powell, J., concurring), \"'Relaxation of standing requirements is directly related to the expansion of judicial power,' and lowering the taxpayer standing bar to permit challenges of purely executive actions 'would significantly alter the allocation of power at the national level, with a shift away from a democratic form of government.'\"\n\nAlito stated \"Respondents set out a parade of horribles that they claim could occur if \"Flast\" is not extended to discretionary Executive Branch expenditures. For example, they say, a federal agency could use its discretionary funds to build a house of worship or to hire clergy of one denomination and send them out to spread their faith. Or an agency could use its funds to make bulk purchases of Stars of David, crucifixes, or depictions of the star and crescent for use in its offices or for distribution to the employees or the general public. Of course, none of these things has happened, even though \"Flast\" has not previously been expanded in the way that respondents urge. In the unlikely event that any of these executive actions did take place, Congress could quickly step in. And respondents make no effort to show that these improbable abuses could not be challenged in federal court by plaintiffs who would possess standing based on grounds other than taxpayer standing.\"\n\nAlito wrote that \"It is a necessary concomitant of the doctrine of \"stare decisis\" that a precedent is not always expanded to the limit of its logic. That...is the approach we take here. We do not extend \"Flast\", but we also do not overrule it. We leave \"Flast\" as we found it.\"\n\nJustice Kennedy wrote a concurrence where he re-emphasized the concerns over separation of powers should the Appeals court decision not have been reversed. He also stated \"It must be remembered that, even where parties have no standing to sue, members of the Legislative and Executive Branches are not excused from making constitutional determinations in the regular course of their duties. Government officials must make a conscious decision to obey the Constitution whether or not their acts can be challenged in a court of law and then must conform their actions to these principled determinations.\"\n\nJustice Scalia wrote a concurrence (which was joined by Justice Clarence Thomas), where he agreed that the case had to be reversed but held that the Court had not gone far enough, \"If this Court is to decide cases by rule of law rather than show of hands, we must surrender to logic and choose sides: Either \"Flast v. Cohen\", 392 U. S. 83 (1968), should be applied to (at a minimum) all challenges to the governmental expenditure of general tax revenues in a manner alleged to violate a constitutional provision specifically limiting the taxing and spending power, or \"Flast\" should be repudiated. For me, the choice is easy. \"Flast\" is wholly irreconcilable with the Article III restrictions on federal-court jurisdiction that this Court has repeatedly confirmed are embodied in the doctrine of standing.\" He said the problem was because \"We have alternately relied on two entirely distinct conceptions of injury in fact, which for convenience I will call 'Wallet Injury' and 'Psychic Injury.' ...Psychic Injury...has nothing to do with the plaintiff's tax liability. Instead, the injury consists of the taxpayer’s \"mental displeasure\" that money extracted from him is being spent in an unlawful manner. ...this conceptualizing of injury in fact in purely mental terms conflicts squarely with the familiar proposition that a plaintiff lacks a concrete and particularized injury when his only complaint is the generalized grievance that the law is being violated. ...We have never explained why Psychic Injury was insufficient in the cases in which standing was denied, and we have never explained why Psychic Injury, however limited, is cognizable under Article III.\" Scalia wrote \"We had an opportunity today to erase this blot on our jurisprudence [\"Flast\"], but instead have simply smudged it.\"\n\nJustice Souter wrote a dissent and was joined by Justice Stevens, Justice Ginsburg, and Justice Breyer. Souter wrote that the majority opinion \"declares that \"Flast\" does not apply [in this case], but a search of that opinion for a suggestion that these taxpayers have any less stake in the outcome than the taxpayers in Flast will come up empty: the plurality makes no such finding, nor could it. Instead, the controlling opinion closes the door on these taxpayers because the Executive Branch, and not the Legislative Branch, caused their injury. I see no basis for this distinction in either logic or precedent, and respectfully dissent.\"\nSouter continued \"We held in \"Flast\", and repeated just last Term, that the \"'injury' alleged in Establishment Clause challenges to federal spending\" is \"the very 'extract[ion] and spen[ding]' of 'tax money' in aid of religion.\" \"DaimlerChrysler Corp. v. Cuno\", 547 U. S.\" He also cited \"Locke v. Davey\", 540 U. S. 712, 722 (2004), \"Since the founding of our country, there have been popular uprisings against procuring taxpayer funds to support church leaders, which was one of the hallmarks of an 'established' religion\". Souter drew the conclusion that \"The right of conscience and the expenditure of an identifiable three pence raised by taxes for the support of a religious cause are therefore not to be split off from one another.\" In response to Scalia's concurrence, Souter invoked Madison's work (see above) and wrote \"The three pence implicates the conscience, and the injury from Government expenditures on religion is not accurately classified with the 'Psychic Injury' that results whenever a congressional appropriation or executive expenditure raises hackles of disagreement with the policy supported...Justice Stewart recognized this in his concurring opinion in \"Flast\", when he said that \"every taxpayer can claim a personal constitutional right not to be taxed for the support of a religious institution,” and thus distinguished the case from one in which a taxpayer sought only to air a generalized grievance in federal court.\"\n\nSouter went over the qualifications for standing set by previous precedents, and concluded that they were all met in this case, \"there is no dispute that taxpayer money in identifiable amounts is funding conferences, and these are alleged to have the purpose of promoting religion. Cf. \"Doremus v. Board of Ed. of Hawthorne\", 342 U. S. 429, 434 (1952) . The taxpayers therefore seek not to 'extend' \"Flast\" ...but merely to apply it. When executive agencies spend identifiable sums of tax money for religious purposes, no less than when Congress authorizes the same thing, taxpayers suffer injury. And once we recognize the injury as sufficient for Article III, there can be no serious question about the other elements of the standing enquiry: the injury is indisputably 'traceable' to the spending, and 'likely to be redressed by' an injunction prohibiting it. \"Allen v. Wright\", 468 U. S. 737, 751 (1984)\". He also noted that \"There will not always be competitors for the funds who would make better plaintiffs (and indeed there appears to be no such competitor here), so after accepting the importance of the injury there is no reason to refuse standing as a prudential matter.\"\n\nSouter held that removing Executive branch actions concerning Establishment Clause questions from Judicial review was dangerous. He said the majority opinion \"points to the separation of powers to explain its distinction between legislative and executive spending decisions...but there is no difference on that point of view between a Judicial Branch review of an executive decision and a judicial evaluation of a congressional one. We owe respect to each of the other branches, no more to the former than to the latter, and no one has suggested that the Establishment Clause lacks applicability to executive uses of money. It would surely violate the Establishment Clause for the Department of Health and Human Services to draw on a general appropriation to build a chapel for weekly church services (no less than if a statute required it), and for good reason: if the Executive could accomplish through the exercise of discretion exactly what Congress cannot do through legislation, Establishment Clause protection would melt away.\"\n\nSouter disagreed with the majority's reading of \"Bowen\", saying in that case \"we already had found the statute valid on its face before we turned to the taxpayers' as-applied challenge...so the case cannot be read to hold that taxpayers have standing only to claim that congressional action, but not its implementation, violates the Establishment Clause.\" Therefore after \"Bowen\", the majority opinion's \"distinction between a 'congressional mandate' on the one hand and 'executive discretion' on the other...is at once arbitrary and hard to manage: if the statute itself is constitutional, all complaints must be about the exercise of 'executive discretion,' so there is no line to be drawn between \"Bowen\" and the case before us today.\"\n\nThe Justice stated that \"While \"Flast\" standing to assert the right of conscience is in a class by itself, it would be a mistake to think that case is unique in recognizing standing in a plaintiff without injury to flesh or purse. Cognizable harm takes account of the nature of the interest protected, which is the reason that 'the constitutional component of standing doctrine incorporates concepts concededly not susceptible of precise definition,' leaving it impossible 'to make application of the constitutional standing requirement a mechanical exercise.' \"Allen\", 468 U. S., at 751.\" As a proof of this he asked, what of cases where a person was \"being forced to compete on an uneven playing field based on race (without showing that an economic loss resulted), or living in a racially gerrymandered electoral district? These injuries are no more concrete than seeing one’s tax dollars spent on religion, but we have recognized each one as enough for standing.\"\n\nSouter stated \"The judgment of sufficient injury takes account of the Madisonian relationship of tax money and conscience, but it equally reflects the Founders’ pragmatic 'conviction that individual religious liberty could be achieved best under a government which was stripped of all power to tax, to support, or otherwise to assist any or all religions,' \"Everson v. Board of Ed. of Ewing\", 330 U. S. 1, 11 (1947), and the realization continuing to the modern day that favoritism for religion 'sends the … message to … nonadherents \"that they are outsiders, not full members of the political community,\"'\" \"McCreary County v. American Civil Liberties Union of Ky.\", 545 U. S. 844, 860 (2005).\"\n\nThe Justice also agreed that the outcome of \"Valley Forge Christian College v. Americans United for Separation of Church and State, Inc.\", 454 U. S. 464 (1982) was based on the Property Clause of Article IV, §3 and so was not a viable precedent in this case. Souter noted that the majority expressed their fear that a great many Executive branch actions would be open to lawsuit if they ruled for the Foundation, he said \"that does not mean taxpayers will prevail in such suits. If these claims are frivolous on the merits, I fail to see the harm in dismissing them for failure to state a claim instead of for lack of jurisdiction. To the degree the claims are meritorious, fear that there will be many of them does not provide a compelling reason, much less a reason grounded in Article III, to keep them from being heard.\"\n\nPresident George W. Bush expressed his pleasure at the majority's ruling, saying \"Today's Supreme Court decision marks a substantial victory for efforts by Americans to more effectively aid our neighbors in need of help. The Faith-Based and Community Initiative can remain focused on strengthening America's armies of compassion and expanding their good works. Similar efforts by governors and mayors in states and cities all across the country can also continue to advance. …This ruling is a win for the thousands of community and faith-based nonprofits all across the country that have partnered with government at all levels to serve their neighbors. Most importantly, it is a win for the many whose lives have been lifted by the caring touch and compassionate hearts of these organizations.\"\n\nFormer Head of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives Jim Towey called the decision \"good news for addicts and the homeless and others seeking effective social services. It's also a repudiation of the kind of secular extremism that ruled the public square for decades.\"\n\nJay Sekulow of the American Center for Law and Justice said of the decision \"This is a very significant victory that sends a powerful message that atheists and others antagonistic to religion do not get an automatic free pass to bring Establishment Clause lawsuits. ...This decision will have serious ramifications for separationist attempts to claim special privileges to sue as taxpayers without showing that a law or government activity actually injured them in any way. ...By rejecting a claim to special treatment for atheists and other separationists, the high court took an important step toward restoring equity to the legal system with respect to federal challenges in the Establishment Clause arena.\" The ACLJ concluded that the \"decision continues the trend to rebuff efforts to build upon the questionable \"Flast\" precedent.\"\n\nThe Rev. Barry W. Lynn of the Americans United for Separation of Church and State expressed his disappointment saying \"This is a disappointing decision that blocks the courthouse door for Americans with legitimate church-state grievances. Taxpayers should be allowed to challenge public funding of religion, whether the money is allocated by Congress or the White House. However, it is important to note that this ruling applies to only a few situations. Most church-state lawsuits, including those that challenge congressional appropriations for faith-based programs, will not be affected.\" Lynn called Justice Alito's statement that \"Congress could quickly step in\" if the Executive went too far as \"quite incredible because the damage is done when the president acts. We have the courts to do precisely this, rein in the president or the Congress.\"\n\nRalph G. Neas, president of People For the American Way Foundation, said the decision marked \"a bad day for the First Amendment. The Supreme Court just put a big dent in the wall of separation between church and state.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13692", "title": "History of the Internet", "text": "History of the Internet\n\nThe history of the Internet begins with the development of electronic computers in the 1950s. Initial concepts of wide area networking originated in several computer science laboratories in the United States, United Kingdom, and France. The U.S. Department of Defense awarded contracts as early as the 1960s, including for the development of the ARPANET project, directed by Robert Taylor and managed by Lawrence Roberts. The first message was sent over the ARPANET in 1969 from computer science Professor Leonard Kleinrock's laboratory at University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) to the second network node at Stanford Research Institute (SRI).\n\nPacket switching networks such as the NPL network, ARPANET, Tymnet, Merit Network, CYCLADES, and Telenet, were developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s using a variety of communications protocols. Donald Davies first demonstrated packet switching in 1967 at the National Physics Laboratory (NPL) in the UK, which became a testbed for UK research for almost two decades. The ARPANET project led to the development of protocols for internetworking, in which multiple separate networks could be joined into a network of networks.\n\nThe Internet protocol suite (TCP/IP) was developed by Robert E. Kahn and Vint Cerf in the 1970s and became the standard networking protocol on the ARPANET, incorporating concepts from the French CYCLADES project directed by Louis Pouzin. In the early 1980s the NSF funded the establishment for national supercomputing centers at several universities, and provided interconnectivity in 1986 with the NSFNET project, which also created network access to the supercomputer sites in the United States from research and education organizations. Commercial Internet service providers (ISPs) began to emerge in the very late 1980s. The ARPANET was decommissioned in 1990. Limited private connections to parts of the Internet by officially commercial entities emerged in several American cities by late 1989 and 1990, and the NSFNET was decommissioned in 1995, removing the last restrictions on the use of the Internet to carry commercial traffic.\n\nIn the 1980s, research at CERN in Switzerland by British computer scientist Tim Berners-Lee resulted in the World Wide Web, linking hypertext documents into an information system, accessible from any node on the network. Since the mid-1990s, the Internet has had a revolutionary impact on culture, commerce, and technology, including the rise of near-instant communication by electronic mail, instant messaging, voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) telephone calls, two-way interactive video calls, and the World Wide Web with its discussion forums, blogs, social networking, and online shopping sites. The research and education community continues to develop and use advanced networks such as JANET in the United Kingdom and Internet2 in the United States. Increasing amounts of data are transmitted at higher and higher speeds over fiber optic networks operating at 1 Gbit/s, 10 Gbit/s, or more. The Internet's takeover of the global communication landscape was almost instant in historical terms: it only communicated 1% of the information flowing through two-way telecommunications networks in the year 1993, already 51% by 2000, and more than 97% of the telecommunicated information by 2007. Today the Internet continues to grow, driven by ever greater amounts of online information, commerce, entertainment, and social networking. However, the future of the global internet may be shaped by regional differences in the world.\n\nThe concept of data communication – transmitting data between two different places through an electromagnetic medium such as radio or an electric wire – pre-dates the introduction of the first computers. Such communication systems were typically limited to point to point communication between two end devices. Semaphore lines, telegraph systems and telex machines can be considered early precursors of this kind of communication. The Telegraph in the late 19th century was the first fully digital communication system.\n\nFundamental theoretical work in data transmission and information theory was developed by Claude Shannon, Harry Nyquist, and Ralph Hartley in the early 20th century.\n\nEarly computers had a central processing unit and remote terminals. As the technology evolved, new systems were devised to allow communication over longer distances (for terminals) or with higher speed (for interconnection of local devices) that were necessary for the mainframe computer model. These technologies made it possible to exchange data (such as files) between remote computers. However, the point-to-point communication model was limited, as it did not allow for direct communication between any two arbitrary systems; a physical link was necessary. The technology was also considered unsafe for strategic and military use because there were no alternative paths for the communication in case of an enemy attack.\n\nWith limited exceptions, the earliest computers were connected directly to terminals used by individual users, typically in the same building or site. Such networks became known as local area networks (LANs). Networking beyond this scope, known as wide area networks (WANs), emerged during the 1950s and became established during the 1960s.\n\nJ. C. R. Licklider, Vice President at Bolt Beranek and Newman, Inc., proposed a global network in his January 1960 paper \"Man-Computer Symbiosis\":\n\nIn August 1962, Licklider and Welden Clark published the paper \"On-Line Man-Computer Communication\" which was one of the first descriptions of a networked future.\n\nIn October 1962, Licklider was hired by Jack Ruina as director of the newly established Information Processing Techniques Office (IPTO) within DARPA, with a mandate to interconnect the United States Department of Defense's main computers at Cheyenne Mountain, the Pentagon, and SAC HQ. There he formed an informal group within DARPA to further computer research. He began by writing memos describing a distributed network to the IPTO staff, whom he called \"Members and Affiliates of the Intergalactic Computer Network\". As part of the information processing office's role, three network terminals had been installed: one for System Development Corporation in Santa Monica, one for Project Genie at University of California, Berkeley, and one for the Compatible Time-Sharing System project at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Licklider's identified need for inter-networking would become obvious by the apparent waste of resources this caused.\n\nFor each of these three terminals, I had three different sets of user commands. So if I was talking online with someone at S.D.C. and I wanted to talk to someone I knew at Berkeley or M.I.T. about this, I had to get up from the S.D.C. terminal, go over and log into the other terminal and get in touch with them... <br><br>I said, oh man, it's obvious what to do: If you have these three terminals, there ought to be one terminal that goes anywhere you want to go where you have interactive computing. That idea is the ARPAnet.\n\nAlthough he left the IPTO in 1964, five years before the ARPANET went live, it was his vision of universal networking that provided the impetus for one of his successors, Robert Taylor, to initiate the ARPANET development. Licklider later returned to lead the IPTO in 1973 for two years.\n\nThe issue of connecting separate physical networks to form one logical network was the first of many problems. Early networks used message switched systems that required rigid routing structures prone to single point of failure. In the 1960s, Paul Baran of the RAND Corporation produced a study of survivable networks for the U.S. military in the event of nuclear war. Information transmitted across Baran's network would be divided into what he called \"message blocks\". Independently, Donald Davies (National Physical Laboratory, UK), proposed and was the first to put into practice a local area network based on what he called packet switching, the term that would ultimately be adopted. Larry Roberts applied Davies' concepts of packet switching for the ARPANET wide area network, and sought input from Paul Baran and Leonard Kleinrock. Kleinrock subsequently developed the mathematical theory behind the performance of this technology building on his earlier work on queueing theory.\n\nPacket switching is a rapid store and forward networking design that divides messages up into arbitrary packets, with routing decisions made per-packet. It provides better bandwidth utilization and response times than the traditional circuit-switching technology used for telephony, particularly on resource-limited interconnection links.\n\nFollowing discussions with J. C. R. Licklider, Donald Davies became interested in data communications for computer networks. At the National Physical Laboratory (United Kingdom) in 1965, Davies designed and proposed a national data network based on packet switching. The following year, he described the use of an \"Interface computer\" to act as a router. The proposal was not taken up nationally but by 1967, a pilot experiment had demonstrated the feasibility of packet switched networks.\n\nBy 1969 he had begun building the Mark I packet-switched network to meet the needs of the multidisciplinary laboratory and prove the technology under operational conditions. In 1976, 12 computers and 75 terminal devices were attached, and more were added until the network was replaced in 1986. NPL, followed by ARPANET, were the first two networks in the world to use packet switching, and were interconnected in the early 1970s.\n\nRobert Taylor was promoted to the head of the information processing office at Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) in June 1966. He intended to realize Licklider's ideas of an interconnected networking system. Bringing in Larry Roberts from MIT, he initiated a project to build such a network. The first ARPANET link was established between the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and the Stanford Research Institute at 22:30 hours on October 29, 1969.\n\nBy December 5, 1969, a 4-node network was connected by adding the University of Utah and the University of California, Santa Barbara. Building on ideas developed in ALOHAnet, the ARPANET grew rapidly. By 1981, the number of hosts had grown to 213, with a new host being added approximately every twenty days.\n\nARPANET development was centered around the Request for Comments (RFC) process, still used today for proposing and distributing Internet Protocols and Systems. RFC 1, entitled \"Host Software\", was written by Steve Crocker from the University of California, Los Angeles, and published on April 7, 1969. These early years were documented in the 1972 film .\n\nARPANET became the technical core of what would become the Internet, and a primary tool in developing the technologies used. The early ARPANET used the Network Control Program (NCP, sometimes Network Control Protocol) rather than TCP/IP. On January 1, 1983, known as flag day, NCP on the ARPANET was replaced by the more flexible and powerful family of TCP/IP protocols, marking the start of the modern Internet.\n\nInternational collaborations on ARPANET were sparse. For various political reasons, European developers were concerned with developing the X.25 networks. Notable exceptions were the \"Norwegian Seismic Array\" (NORSAR) in 1972, followed in 1973 by Sweden with satellite links to the Tanum Earth Station and Peter Kirstein's research group in the UK, initially at the Institute of Computer Science, London University and later at University College London.\n\nThe Merit Network was formed in 1966 as the Michigan Educational Research Information Triad to explore computer networking between three of Michigan's public universities as a means to help the state's educational and economic development. With initial support from the State of Michigan and the National Science Foundation (NSF), the packet-switched network was first demonstrated in December 1971 when an interactive host to host connection was made between the IBM mainframe computer systems at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor and Wayne State University in Detroit. In October 1972 connections to the CDC mainframe at Michigan State University in East Lansing completed the triad. Over the next several years in addition to host to host interactive connections the network was enhanced to support terminal to host connections, host to host batch connections (remote job submission, remote printing, batch file transfer), interactive file transfer, gateways to the Tymnet and Telenet public data networks, X.25 host attachments, gateways to X.25 data networks, Ethernet attached hosts, and eventually TCP/IP and additional public universities in Michigan join the network. All of this set the stage for Merit's role in the NSFNET project starting in the mid-1980s.\n\nThe CYCLADES packet switching network was a French research network designed and directed by Louis Pouzin. First demonstrated in 1973, it was developed to explore alternatives to the early ARPANET design and to support network research generally. It was the first network to make the hosts responsible for reliable delivery of data, rather than the network itself, using unreliable datagrams and associated end-to-end protocol mechanisms. Concepts of this network influenced later ARPANET architecture.\n\nBased on ARPA's research, packet switching network standards were developed by the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in the form of X.25 and related standards. While using packet switching, X.25 is built on the concept of virtual circuits emulating traditional telephone connections. In 1974, X.25 formed the basis for the SERCnet network between British academic and research sites, which later became JANET. The initial ITU Standard on X.25 was approved in March 1976.\n\nThe British Post Office, Western Union International and Tymnet collaborated to create the first international packet switched network, referred to as the International Packet Switched Service (IPSS), in 1978. This network grew from Europe and the US to cover Canada, Hong Kong, and Australia by 1981. By the 1990s it provided a worldwide networking infrastructure.\n\nUnlike ARPANET, X.25 was commonly available for business use. Telenet offered its Telemail electronic mail service, which was also targeted to enterprise use rather than the general email system of the ARPANET.\n\nThe first public dial-in networks used asynchronous TTY terminal protocols to reach a concentrator operated in the public network. Some networks, such as CompuServe, used X.25 to multiplex the terminal sessions into their packet-switched backbones, while others, such as Tymnet, used proprietary protocols. In 1979, CompuServe became the first service to offer electronic mail capabilities and technical support to personal computer users. The company broke new ground again in 1980 as the first to offer real-time chat with its CB Simulator. Other major dial-in networks were America Online (AOL) and Prodigy that also provided communications, content, and entertainment features. Many bulletin board system (BBS) networks also provided on-line access, such as FidoNet which was popular amongst hobbyist computer users, many of them hackers and amateur radio operators.\n\nIn 1979, two students at Duke University, Tom Truscott and Jim Ellis, originated the idea of using Bourne shell scripts to transfer news and messages on a serial line UUCP connection with nearby University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Following public release of the software in 1980, the mesh of UUCP hosts forwarding on the Usenet news rapidly expanded. UUCPnet, as it would later be named, also created gateways and links between FidoNet and dial-up BBS hosts. UUCP networks spread quickly due to the lower costs involved, ability to use existing leased lines, X.25 links or even ARPANET connections, and the lack of strict use policies compared to later networks like CSNET and Bitnet. All connects were local. By 1981 the number of UUCP hosts had grown to 550, nearly doubling to 940 in 1984. – Sublink Network, operating since 1987 and officially founded in Italy in 1989, based its interconnectivity upon UUCP to redistribute mail and news groups messages throughout its Italian nodes (about 100 at the time) owned both by private individuals and small companies. Sublink Network represented possibly one of the first examples of the Internet technology becoming progress through popular diffusion.\n\nWith so many different network methods, something was needed to unify them. Robert E. Kahn of DARPA and ARPANET recruited Vinton Cerf of Stanford University to work with him on the problem. By 1973, they had worked out a fundamental reformulation, where the differences between network protocols were hidden by using a common internetwork protocol, and instead of the network being responsible for reliability, as in the ARPANET, the hosts became responsible. Cerf credits Hubert Zimmermann, Gerard LeLann and Louis Pouzin (designer of the CYCLADES network) with important work on this design.\n\nThe specification of the resulting protocol, \"RFC 675 – Specification of Internet Transmission Control Program\", by Vinton Cerf, Yogen Dalal and Carl Sunshine, Network Working Group, December 1974, contains the first attested use of the term \"internet\", as a shorthand for \"internetworking\"; later RFCs repeat this use, so the word started out as an adjective rather than the noun it is today.\nWith the role of the network reduced to the bare minimum, it became possible to join almost any networks together, no matter what their characteristics were, thereby solving Kahn's initial problem. DARPA agreed to fund development of prototype software, and after several years of work, the first demonstration of a gateway between the Packet Radio network in the SF Bay area and the ARPANET was conducted by the Stanford Research Institute. On November 22, 1977 a three network demonstration was conducted including the ARPANET, the SRI's Packet Radio Van on the Packet Radio Network and the Atlantic Packet Satellite network.\n\nStemming from the first specifications of TCP in 1974, TCP/IP emerged in mid-late 1978 in nearly its final form, as used for the first decades of the Internet, known as \"IPv4\". which is described in IETF publication RFC 791 (September 1981).\nIPv4 uses 32-bit addresses which limits the address space to 2 addresses, i.e. addresses. The last available IPv4 address was assigned in January 2011. IPv4 is being replaced by its successor, called \"IPv6\", which uses 128 bit addresses, providing 2 addresses, i.e. . This is a vastly increased address space. The shift to IPv6 is expected to take many years, decades, or perhaps longer, to complete, since there were four billion machines with IPv4 when the shift began.\n\nThe associated standards for IPv4 were published by 1981 as RFCs 791, 792 and 793, and adopted for use. DARPA sponsored or encouraged the development of TCP/IP implementations for many operating systems and then scheduled a migration of all hosts on all of its packet networks to TCP/IP. On January 1, 1983, known as flag day, TCP/IP protocols became the only approved protocol on the ARPANET, replacing the earlier NCP protocol.\n\nAfter the ARPANET had been up and running for several years, ARPA looked for another agency to hand off the network to; ARPA's primary mission was funding cutting edge research and development, not running a communications utility. Eventually, in July 1975, the network had been turned over to the Defense Communications Agency, also part of the Department of Defense. In 1983, the U.S. military portion of the ARPANET was broken off as a separate network, the MILNET. MILNET subsequently became the unclassified but military-only NIPRNET, in parallel with the SECRET-level SIPRNET and JWICS for TOP SECRET and above. NIPRNET does have controlled security gateways to the public Internet.\n\nThe networks based on the ARPANET were government funded and therefore restricted to noncommercial uses such as research; unrelated commercial use was strictly forbidden. This initially restricted connections to military sites and universities. During the 1980s, the connections expanded to more educational institutions, and even to a growing number of companies such as Digital Equipment Corporation and Hewlett-Packard, which were participating in research projects or providing services to those who were.\n\nSeveral other branches of the U.S. government, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), the National Science Foundation (NSF), and the Department of Energy (DOE) became heavily involved in Internet research and started development of a successor to ARPANET. In the mid-1980s, all three of these branches developed the first Wide Area Networks based on TCP/IP. NASA developed the NASA Science Network, NSF developed CSNET and DOE evolved the Energy Sciences Network or ESNet.\nNASA developed the TCP/IP based NASA Science Network (NSN) in the mid-1980s, connecting space scientists to data and information stored anywhere in the world. In 1989, the DECnet-based Space Physics Analysis Network (SPAN) and the TCP/IP-based NASA Science Network (NSN) were brought together at NASA Ames Research Center creating the first multiprotocol wide area network called the NASA Science Internet, or NSI. NSI was established to provide a totally integrated communications infrastructure to the NASA scientific community for the advancement of earth, space and life sciences. As a high-speed, multiprotocol, international network, NSI provided connectivity to over 20,000 scientists across all seven continents.\n\nIn 1981 NSF supported the development of the Computer Science Network (CSNET). CSNET connected with ARPANET using TCP/IP, and ran TCP/IP over X.25, but it also supported departments without sophisticated network connections, using automated dial-up mail exchange.\n\nIn 1986, the NSF created NSFNET, a 56 kbit/s backbone to support the NSF-sponsored supercomputing centers. The NSFNET also provided support for the creation of regional research and education networks in the United States, and for the connection of university and college campus networks to the regional networks. The use of NSFNET and the regional networks was not limited to supercomputer users and the 56 kbit/s network quickly became overloaded. NSFNET was upgraded to 1.5 Mbit/s in 1988 under a cooperative agreement with the Merit Network in partnership with IBM, MCI, and the State of Michigan. The existence of NSFNET and the creation of Federal Internet Exchanges (FIXes) allowed the ARPANET to be decommissioned in 1990. NSFNET was expanded and upgraded to 45 Mbit/s in 1991, and was decommissioned in 1995 when it was replaced by backbones operated by several commercial Internet Service Providers.\n\nThe term \"internet\" was adopted in the first RFC published on the TCP protocol (RFC 675: Internet Transmission Control Program, December 1974) as an abbreviation of the term \"internetworking\" and the two terms were used interchangeably. In general, an internet was any network using TCP/IP. It was around the time when ARPANET was interlinked with NSFNET in the late 1980s, that the term was used as the name of the network, Internet, being the large and global TCP/IP network.\n\nAs interest in networking grew and new applications for it were developed, the Internet's technologies spread throughout the rest of the world. The network-agnostic approach in TCP/IP meant that it was easy to use any existing network infrastructure, such as the IPSS X.25 network, to carry Internet traffic. In 1982, one year earlier than ARPANET, University College London replaced its transatlantic satellite links with TCP/IP over IPSS.\n\nMany sites unable to link directly to the Internet created simple gateways for the transfer of electronic mail, the most important application of the time. Sites with only intermittent connections used UUCP or FidoNet and relied on the gateways between these networks and the Internet. Some gateway services went beyond simple mail peering, such as allowing access to File Transfer Protocol (FTP) sites via UUCP or mail.\n\nFinally, routing technologies were developed for the Internet to remove the remaining centralized routing aspects. The Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP) was replaced by a new protocol, the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP). This provided a meshed topology for the Internet and reduced the centric architecture which ARPANET had emphasized. In 1994, Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR) was introduced to support better conservation of address space which allowed use of route aggregation to decrease the size of routing tables.\n\nBetween 1984 and 1988 CERN began installation and operation of TCP/IP to interconnect its major internal computer systems, workstations, PCs and an accelerator control system. CERN continued to operate a limited self-developed system (CERNET) internally and several incompatible (typically proprietary) network protocols externally. There was considerable resistance in Europe towards more widespread use of TCP/IP, and the CERN TCP/IP intranets remained isolated from the Internet until 1989.\n\nIn 1988, Daniel Karrenberg, from Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in Amsterdam, visited Ben Segal, CERN's TCP/IP Coordinator, looking for advice about the transition of the European side of the UUCP Usenet network (much of which ran over X.25 links) over to TCP/IP. In 1987, Ben Segal had met with Len Bosack from the then still small company Cisco about purchasing some TCP/IP routers for CERN, and was able to give Karrenberg advice and forward him on to Cisco for the appropriate hardware. This expanded the European portion of the Internet across the existing UUCP networks, and in 1989 CERN opened its first external TCP/IP connections. This coincided with the creation of Réseaux IP Européens (RIPE), initially a group of IP network administrators who met regularly to carry out coordination work together. Later, in 1992, RIPE was formally registered as a cooperative in Amsterdam.\n\nAt the same time as the rise of internetworking in Europe, ad hoc networking to ARPA and in-between Australian universities formed, based on various technologies such as X.25 and UUCPNet. These were limited in their connection to the global networks, due to the cost of making individual international UUCP dial-up or X.25 connections. In 1989, Australian universities joined the push towards using IP protocols to unify their networking infrastructures. AARNet was formed in 1989 by the Australian Vice-Chancellors' Committee and provided a dedicated IP based network for Australia.\n\nThe Internet began to penetrate Asia in the 1980s. In May 1982 South Korea became the second country to successfully set up TCP/IP IPv4 network. Japan, which had built the UUCP-based network JUNET in 1984, connected to NSFNET in 1989. It hosted the annual meeting of the Internet Society, INET'92, in Kobe. Singapore developed TECHNET in 1990, and Thailand gained a global Internet connection between Chulalongkorn University and UUNET in 1992.\n\nWhile developed countries with technological infrastructures were joining the Internet, developing countries began to experience a digital divide separating them from the Internet. On an essentially continental basis, they are building organizations for Internet resource administration and sharing operational experience, as more and more transmission facilities go into place.\n\nAt the beginning of the 1990s, African countries relied upon X.25 IPSS and 2400 baud modem UUCP links for international and internetwork computer communications.\n\nIn August 1995, InfoMail Uganda, Ltd., a privately held firm in Kampala now known as InfoCom, and NSN Network Services of Avon, Colorado, sold in 1997 and now known as Clear Channel Satellite, established Africa's first native TCP/IP high-speed satellite Internet services. The data connection was originally carried by a C-Band RSCC Russian satellite which connected InfoMail's Kampala offices directly to NSN's MAE-West point of presence using a private network from NSN's leased ground station in New Jersey. InfoCom's first satellite connection was just 64 kbit/s, serving a Sun host computer and twelve US Robotics dial-up modems.\n\nIn 1996, a USAID funded project, the Leland Initiative, started work on developing full Internet connectivity for the continent. Guinea, Mozambique, Madagascar and Rwanda gained satellite earth stations in 1997, followed by Ivory Coast and Benin in 1998.\n\nAfrica is building an Internet infrastructure. AfriNIC, headquartered in Mauritius, manages IP address allocation for the continent. As do the other Internet regions, there is an operational forum, the Internet Community of Operational Networking Specialists.\n\nThere are many programs to provide high-performance transmission plant, and the western and southern coasts have undersea optical cable. High-speed cables join North Africa and the Horn of Africa to intercontinental cable systems. Undersea cable development is slower for East Africa; the original joint effort between New Partnership for Africa's Development (NEPAD) and the East Africa Submarine System (Eassy) has broken off and may become two efforts.\n\nThe Asia Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC), headquartered in Australia, manages IP address allocation for the continent. APNIC sponsors an operational forum, the Asia-Pacific Regional Internet Conference on Operational Technologies (APRICOT).\n\nSouth Korea's first Internet system, the System Development Network (SDN) began operation on 15 May 1982. SDN was connected to the rest of the world in August 1983 using UUCP (Unixto-Unix-Copy); connected to CSNET in December 1984; and formally connected to the U.S. Internet in 1990.\n\nIn 1991, the People's Republic of China saw its first TCP/IP college network, Tsinghua University's TUNET. The PRC went on to make its first global Internet connection in 1994, between the Beijing Electro-Spectrometer Collaboration and Stanford University's Linear Accelerator Center. However, China went on to implement its own digital divide by implementing a country-wide content filter.\n\nAs with the other regions, the Latin American and Caribbean Internet Addresses Registry (LACNIC) manages the IP address space and other resources for its area. LACNIC, headquartered in Uruguay, operates DNS root, reverse DNS, and other key services.\n\nInitially, as with its predecessor networks, the system that would evolve into the Internet was primarily for government and government body use.\n\nHowever, interest in commercial use of the Internet quickly became a commonly debated topic. Although commercial use was forbidden, the exact definition of commercial use was unclear and subjective. UUCPNet and the X.25 IPSS had no such restrictions, which would eventually see the official barring of UUCPNet use of ARPANET and NSFNET connections. (Some UUCP links still remained connecting to these networks however, as administrators cast a blind eye to their operation.)\nAs a result, during the late 1980s, the first Internet service provider (ISP) companies were formed. Companies like PSINet, UUNET, Netcom, and Portal Software were formed to provide service to the regional research networks and provide alternate network access, UUCP-based email and Usenet News to the public. The first commercial dialup ISP in the United States was The World, which opened in 1989.\n\nIn 1992, the U.S. Congress passed the Scientific and Advanced-Technology Act, , which allowed NSF to support access by the research and education communities to computer networks which were not used exclusively for research and education purposes, thus permitting NSFNET to interconnect with commercial networks. This caused controversy within the research and education community, who were concerned commercial use of the network might lead to an Internet that was less responsive to their needs, and within the community of commercial network providers, who felt that government subsidies were giving an unfair advantage to some organizations.\n\nBy 1990, ARPANET's goals had been fulfilled and new networking technologies exceeded the original scope and the project came to a close. New network service providers including PSINet, Alternet, CERFNet, ANS CO+RE, and many others were offering network access to commercial customers. NSFNET was no longer the de facto backbone and exchange point of the Internet. The Commercial Internet eXchange (CIX), Metropolitan Area Exchanges (MAEs), and later Network Access Points (NAPs) were becoming the primary interconnections between many networks. The final restrictions on carrying commercial traffic ended on April 30, 1995 when the National Science Foundation ended its sponsorship of the NSFNET Backbone Service and the service ended. NSF provided initial support for the NAPs and interim support to help the regional research and education networks transition to commercial ISPs. NSF also sponsored the very high speed Backbone Network Service (vBNS) which continued to provide support for the supercomputing centers and research and education in the United States.\n\nThe World Wide Web (sometimes abbreviated \"www\" or \"W3\") is an information space where documents and other web resources are identified by URIs, interlinked by hypertext links, and can be accessed via the Internet using a web browser and (more recently) web-based applications. It has become known simply as \"the Web\". As of the 2010s, the World Wide Web is the primary tool billions use to interact on the Internet, and it has changed people's lives immeasurably.\n\nPrecursors to the web browser emerged in the form of hyperlinked applications during the mid and late 1980s (the bare concept of hyperlinking had by then existed for some decades). Following these, Tim Berners-Lee is credited with inventing the World Wide Web in 1989 and developing in 1990 both the first web server, and the first web browser, called WorldWideWeb (no spaces) and later renamed Nexus. Many others were soon developed, with Marc Andreessen's 1993 Mosaic (later Netscape), being particularly easy to use and install, and often credited with sparking the internet boom of the 1990s. Today, the major web browsers are Firefox, Internet Explorer, Google Chrome, Opera and Safari.\n\nA boost in web users was triggered in September 1993 by NCSA Mosaic, a graphical browser which eventually ran on several popular office and home computers. This was the first web browser aiming to bring multimedia content to non-technical users, and therefore included images and text on the same page, unlike previous browser designs; its founder, Marc Andreessen, also established the company that in 1994, released Netscape Navigator, which resulted in one of the early browser wars, when it ended up in a competition for dominance (which it lost) with Microsoft Windows' Internet Explorer. Commercial use restrictions were lifted in 1995. The online service America Online (AOL) offered their users a connection to the Internet via their own internal browser.\n\nDuring the first decade or so of the public internet, the immense changes it would eventually enable in the 2000s were still nascent. In terms of providing context for this period, mobile cellular devices (\"smartphones\" and other cellular devices) which today provide near-universal access, were used for business and not a routine household item owned by parents and children worldwide. Social media in the modern sense had yet to come into existence, laptops were bulky and most households did not have computers. Data rates were slow and most people lacked means to video or digitize video; media storage was transitioning slowly from analog tape to digital optical discs (DVD and to an extent still, floppy disc to CD). Enabling technologies used from the early 2000s such as PHP, modern Javascript and Java, technologies such as AJAX, HTML 4 (and its emphasis on CSS), and various software frameworks, which enabled and simplified speed of web development, largely awaited invention and their eventual widespread adoption.\n\nThe Internet was widely used for mailing lists, emails, e-commerce and early popular online shopping (Amazon and eBay for example), online forums and bulletin boards, and personal websites and blogs, and use was growing rapidly, but by more modern standards the systems used were static and lacked widespread social engagement. It awaited a number of events in the early 2000s to change from a communications technology to gradually develop into a key part of global society's infrastructure.\n\nTypical design elements of these \"Web 1.0\" era websites included: Static pages instead of dynamic HTML; content served from filesystems instead of relational databases; pages built using Server Side Includes or CGI instead of a web application written in a dynamic programming language; HTML 3.2-era structures such as frames and tables to create page layouts; online guestbooks; overuse of GIF buttons and similar small graphics promoting particular items; and HTML forms sent via email. (Support for server side scripting was rare on shared servers so the usual feedback mechanism was via email, using mailto forms and their email program.\n\nDuring the period 1997 to 2001, the first speculative investment bubble related to the Internet took place, in which \"dot-com\" companies (referring to the \".com\" top level domain used by businesses) were propelled to exceedingly high valuations as investors rapidly stoked stock values, followed by a market crash; the first dot-com bubble. However this only temporarily slowed enthusiasm and growth, which quickly recovered and continued to grow.\n\nThe changes that would propel the Internet into its place as a social system took place during a relatively short period of no more than five years, starting from around 2004. They included:\n\nand shortly after (approximately 2007–2008 onward):\nWith the call to Web 2.0, the period up to around 2004–2005 was retrospectively named and described by some as Web 1.0.\n\nThe term \"Web 2.0\" describes websites that emphasize user-generated content (including user-to-user interaction), usability, and interoperability. It first appeared in a January 1999 article called \"Fragmented Future\" written by Darcy DiNucci, a consultant on electronic information design, where she wrote:\n\nThe term resurfaced during 2002 – 2004, and gained prominence in late 2004 following presentations by Tim O'Reilly and Dale Dougherty at the first Web 2.0 Conference. In their opening remarks, John Battelle and Tim O'Reilly outlined their definition of the \"Web as Platform\", where software applications are built upon the Web as opposed to upon the desktop. The unique aspect of this migration, they argued, is that \"customers are building your business for you\". They argued that the activities of users generating content (in the form of ideas, text, videos, or pictures) could be \"harnessed\" to create value.\n\nWeb 2.0 does not refer to an update to any technical specification, but rather to cumulative changes in the way Web pages are made and used. Web 2.0 describes an approach, in which sites focus substantially upon allowing users to interact and collaborate with each other in a social media dialogue as creators of user-generated content in a virtual community, in contrast to Web sites where people are limited to the passive viewing of content. Examples of Web 2.0 include social networking sites, blogs, wikis, folksonomies, video sharing sites, hosted services, Web applications, and mashups. Terry Flew, in his 3rd Edition of \"New Media\" described what he believed to characterize the differences between Web 1.0 and Web 2.0:\nThis era saw several household names gain prominence through their community-oriented operation – YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, Reddit and Wikipedia being some examples.\n\nThe process of change generally described as \"Web 2.0\" was itself greatly accelerated and transformed only a short time later by the increasing growth in mobile devices. This mobile revolution meant that computers in the form of smartphones became something many people used, took with them everywhere, communicated with, used for photographs and videos they instantly shared or to shop or seek information \"on the move\" – and used socially, as opposed to items on a desk at home or just used for work.\n\nLocation-based services, services using location and other sensor information, and crowdsourcing (frequently but not always location based), became common, with posts tagged by location, or websites and services becoming location aware. Mobile-targeted websites (such as \"m.website.com\") became common, designed especially for the new devices used. Netbooks, ultrabooks, widespread 4G and Wi-Fi, and mobile chips capable or running at nearly the power of desktops from not many years before on far lower power usage, became enablers of this stage of Internet development, and the term \"App\" emerged (short for \"Application program\" or \"Program\") as did the \"App store\".\n\nThe first Internet link into low earth orbit was established on January 22, 2010 when astronaut T. J. Creamer posted the first unassisted update to his Twitter account from the International Space Station, marking the extension of the Internet into space. (Astronauts at the ISS had used email and Twitter before, but these messages had been relayed to the ground through a NASA data link before being posted by a human proxy.) This personal Web access, which NASA calls the Crew Support LAN, uses the space station's high-speed Ku band microwave link. To surf the Web, astronauts can use a station laptop computer to control a desktop computer on Earth, and they can talk to their families and friends on Earth using Voice over IP equipment.\n\nCommunication with spacecraft beyond earth orbit has traditionally been over point-to-point links through the Deep Space Network. Each such data link must be manually scheduled and configured. In the late 1990s NASA and Google began working on a new network protocol, Delay-tolerant networking (DTN) which automates this process, allows networking of spaceborne transmission nodes, and takes the fact into account that spacecraft can temporarily lose contact because they move behind the Moon or planets, or because space weather disrupts the connection. Under such conditions, DTN retransmits data packages instead of dropping them, as the standard TCP/IP Internet Protocol does. NASA conducted the first field test of what it calls the \"deep space internet\" in November 2008. Testing of DTN-based communications between the International Space Station and Earth (now termed Disruption-Tolerant Networking) has been ongoing since March 2009, and is scheduled to continue until March 2014.\n\nThis network technology is supposed to ultimately enable missions that involve multiple spacecraft where reliable inter-vessel communication might take precedence over vessel-to-earth downlinks. According to a February 2011 statement by Google's Vint Cerf, the so-called \"Bundle protocols\" have been uploaded to NASA's EPOXI mission spacecraft (which is in orbit around the Sun) and communication with Earth has been tested at a distance of approximately 80 light seconds.\n\nAs a globally distributed network of voluntarily interconnected autonomous networks, the Internet operates without a central governing body. It has no centralized governance for either technology or policies, and each constituent network chooses what technologies and protocols it will deploy from the voluntary technical standards that are developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). However, throughout its entire history, the Internet system has had an \"Internet Assigned Numbers Authority\" (IANA) for the allocation and assignment of various technical identifiers needed for the operation of the Internet. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) provides oversight and coordination for two principal name spaces in the Internet, the Internet Protocol address space and the Domain Name System.\n\nThe IANA function was originally performed by USC Information Sciences Institute (ISI), and it delegated portions of this responsibility with respect to numeric network and autonomous system identifiers to the Network Information Center (NIC) at Stanford Research Institute (SRI International) in Menlo Park, California. ISI's Jonathan Postel managed the IANA, served as RFC Editor and performed other key roles until his premature death in 1998.\n\nAs the early ARPANET grew, hosts were referred to by names, and a HOSTS.TXT file would be distributed from SRI International to each host on the network. As the network grew, this became cumbersome. A technical solution came in the form of the Domain Name System, created by ISI's Paul Mockapetris in 1983. The Defense Data Network—Network Information Center (DDN-NIC) at SRI handled all registration services, including the top-level domains (TLDs) of .mil, .gov, .edu, .org, .net, .com and .us, root nameserver administration and Internet number assignments under a United States Department of Defense contract. In 1991, the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) awarded the administration and maintenance of DDN-NIC (managed by SRI up until this point) to Government Systems, Inc., who subcontracted it to the small private-sector Network Solutions, Inc.\n\nThe increasing cultural diversity of the Internet also posed administrative challenges for centralized management of the IP addresses. In October 1992, the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) published RFC 1366, which described the \"growth of the Internet and its increasing globalization\" and set out the basis for an evolution of the IP registry process, based on a regionally distributed registry model. This document stressed the need for a single Internet number registry to exist in each geographical region of the world (which would be of \"continental dimensions\"). Registries would be \"unbiased and widely recognized by network providers and subscribers\" within their region.\nThe RIPE Network Coordination Centre (RIPE NCC) was established as the first RIR in May 1992. The second RIR, the Asia Pacific Network Information Centre (APNIC), was established in Tokyo in 1993, as a pilot project of the Asia Pacific Networking Group.\n\nSince at this point in history most of the growth on the Internet was coming from non-military sources, it was decided that the Department of Defense would no longer fund registration services outside of the .mil TLD. In 1993 the U.S. National Science Foundation, after a competitive bidding process in 1992, created the InterNIC to manage the allocations of addresses and management of the address databases, and awarded the contract to three organizations. Registration Services would be provided by Network Solutions; Directory and Database Services would be provided by AT&T; and Information Services would be provided by General Atomics.\n\nOver time, after consultation with the IANA, the IETF, RIPE NCC, APNIC, and the Federal Networking Council (FNC), the decision was made to separate the management of domain names from the management of IP numbers. Following the examples of RIPE NCC and APNIC, it was recommended that management of IP address space then administered by the InterNIC should be under the control of those that use it, specifically the ISPs, end-user organizations, corporate entities, universities, and individuals. As a result, the American Registry for Internet Numbers (ARIN) was established as in December 1997, as an independent, not-for-profit corporation by direction of the National Science Foundation and became the third Regional Internet Registry.\n\nIn 1998, both the IANA and remaining DNS-related InterNIC functions were reorganized under the control of ICANN, a California non-profit corporation contracted by the United States Department of Commerce to manage a number of Internet-related tasks. As these tasks involved technical coordination for two principal Internet name spaces (DNS names and IP addresses) created by the IETF, ICANN also signed a memorandum of understanding with the IAB to define the technical work to be carried out by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority. The management of Internet address space remained with the regional Internet registries, which collectively were defined as a supporting organization within the ICANN structure. ICANN provides central coordination for the DNS system, including policy coordination for the split registry / registrar system, with competition among registry service providers to serve each top-level-domain and multiple competing registrars offering DNS services to end-users.\n\nThe Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) is the largest and most visible of several loosely related ad-hoc groups that provide technical direction for the Internet, including the Internet Architecture Board (IAB), the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG), and the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF).\n\nThe IETF is a loosely self-organized group of international volunteers who contribute to the engineering and evolution of Internet technologies. It is the principal body engaged in the development of new Internet standard specifications. Much of the work of the IETF is organized into \"Working Groups\". Standardization efforts of the Working Groups are often adopted by the Internet community, but the IETF does not control or patrol the Internet.\n\nThe IETF grew out of quarterly meeting of U.S. government-funded researchers, starting in January 1986. Non-government representatives were invited by the fourth IETF meeting in October 1986. The concept of Working Groups was introduced at the fifth meeting in February 1987. The seventh meeting in July 1987 was the first meeting with more than one hundred attendees. In 1992, the Internet Society, a professional membership society, was formed and IETF began to operate under it as an independent international standards body. The first IETF meeting outside of the United States was held in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, in July 1993. Today, the IETF meets three times per year and attendance has been as high as ca. 2,000 participants. Typically one in three IETF meetings are held in Europe or Asia. The number of non-US attendees is typically ca. 50%, even at meetings held in the United States.\n\nThe IETF is not a legal entity, has no governing board, no members, and no dues. The closest status resembling membership is being on an IETF or Working Group mailing list. IETF volunteers come from all over the world and from many different parts of the Internet community. The IETF works closely with and under the supervision of the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG) and the Internet Architecture Board (IAB). The Internet Research Task Force (IRTF) and the Internet Research Steering Group (IRSG), peer activities to the IETF and IESG under the general supervision of the IAB, focus on longer term research issues.\n\nRequest for Comments (RFCs) are the main documentation for the work of the IAB, IESG, IETF, and IRTF. RFC 1, \"Host Software\", was written by Steve Crocker at UCLA in April 1969, well before the IETF was created. Originally they were technical memos documenting aspects of ARPANET development and were edited by Jon Postel, the first RFC Editor.\n\nRFCs cover a wide range of information from proposed standards, draft standards, full standards, best practices, experimental protocols, history, and other informational topics. RFCs can be written by individuals or informal groups of individuals, but many are the product of a more formal Working Group. Drafts are submitted to the IESG either by individuals or by the Working Group Chair. An RFC Editor, appointed by the IAB, separate from IANA, and working in conjunction with the IESG, receives drafts from the IESG and edits, formats, and publishes them. Once an RFC is published, it is never revised. If the standard it describes changes or its information becomes obsolete, the revised standard or updated information will be re-published as a new RFC that \"obsoletes\" the original.\n\nThe Internet Society (ISOC) is an international, nonprofit organization founded during 1992 \"to assure the open development, evolution and use of the Internet for the benefit of all people throughout the world\". With offices near Washington, DC, USA, and in Geneva, Switzerland, ISOC has a membership base comprising more than 80 organizational and more than 50,000 individual members. Members also form \"chapters\" based on either common geographical location or special interests. There are currently more than 90 chapters around the world.\n\nISOC provides financial and organizational support to and promotes the work of the standards settings bodies for which it is the organizational home: the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), the Internet Architecture Board (IAB), the Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG), and the Internet Research Task Force (IRTF). ISOC also promotes understanding and appreciation of the Internet model of open, transparent processes and consensus-based decision-making.\n\nSince the 1990s, the Internet's governance and organization has been of global importance to governments, commerce, civil society, and individuals. The organizations which held control of certain technical aspects of the Internet were the successors of the old ARPANET oversight and the current decision-makers in the day-to-day technical aspects of the network. While recognized as the administrators of certain aspects of the Internet, their roles and their decision-making authority are limited and subject to increasing international scrutiny and increasing objections. These objections have led to the ICANN removing themselves from relationships with first the University of Southern California in 2000, and in September 2009, gaining autonomy from the US government by the ending of its longstanding agreements, although some contractual obligations with the U.S. Department of Commerce continued. Finally, on October 1, 2016 ICANN ended its contract with the United States Department of Commerce National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA), allowing oversight to pass to the global Internet community.\n\nThe IETF, with financial and organizational support from the Internet Society, continues to serve as the Internet's ad-hoc standards body and issues Request for Comments.\n\nIn November 2005, the World Summit on the Information Society, held in Tunis, called for an Internet Governance Forum (IGF) to be convened by United Nations Secretary General. The IGF opened an ongoing, non-binding conversation among stakeholders representing governments, the private sector, civil society, and the technical and academic communities about the future of Internet governance. The first IGF meeting was held in October/November 2006 with follow up meetings annually thereafter. Since WSIS, the term \"Internet governance\" has been broadened beyond narrow technical concerns to include a wider range of Internet-related policy issues.\n\nDue to its prominence and immediacy as an effective means of mass communication, the Internet has also become more politicized as it has grown. This has led in turn, to discourses and activities that would once have taken place in other ways, migrating to being mediated by internet.\n\nExamples include political activities such as public protest and canvassing of support and votes, but also –\n\nOn April 23, 2014, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was reported to be considering a new rule that would permit Internet service providers to offer content providers a faster track to send content, thus reversing their earlier net neutrality position. A possible solution to net neutrality concerns may be municipal broadband, according to Professor Susan Crawford, a legal and technology expert at Harvard Law School. On May 15, 2014, the FCC decided to consider two options regarding Internet services: first, permit fast and slow broadband lanes, thereby compromising net neutrality; and second, reclassify broadband as a telecommunication service, thereby preserving net neutrality. On November 10, 2014, President Obama recommended the FCC reclassify broadband Internet service as a telecommunications service in order to preserve net neutrality. On January 16, 2015, Republicans presented legislation, in the form of a U.S. Congress H. R. discussion draft bill, that makes concessions to net neutrality but prohibits the FCC from accomplishing the goal or enacting any further regulation affecting Internet service providers (ISPs). On January 31, 2015, AP News reported that the FCC will present the notion of applying (\"with some caveats\") Title II (common carrier) of the Communications Act of 1934 to the internet in a vote expected on February 26, 2015. Adoption of this notion would reclassify internet service from one of information to one of telecommunications and, according to Tom Wheeler, chairman of the FCC, ensure net neutrality. The FCC is expected to enforce net neutrality in its vote, according to \"The New York Times\".\n\nOn February 26, 2015, the FCC ruled in favor of net neutrality by applying Title II (common carrier) of the Communications Act of 1934 and Section 706 of the Telecommunications act of 1996 to the Internet. The FCC Chairman, Tom Wheeler, commented, \"This is no more a plan to regulate the Internet than the First Amendment is a plan to regulate free speech. They both stand for the same concept.\"\n\nOn March 12, 2015, the FCC released the specific details of the net neutrality rules. On April 13, 2015, the FCC published the final rule on its new \"Net Neutrality\" regulations.\n\nOn December 14, 2017, the F.C.C Repealed their March 12, 2015 decision by a 3-2 vote regarding net neutrality rules.\n\nE-mail has often been called the killer application of the Internet. It predates the Internet, and was a crucial tool in creating it. Email started in 1965 as a way for multiple users of a time-sharing mainframe computer to communicate. Although the history is undocumented, among the first systems to have such a facility were the System Development Corporation (SDC) Q32 and the Compatible Time-Sharing System (CTSS) at MIT.\n\nThe ARPANET computer network made a large contribution to the evolution of electronic mail. An experimental inter-system transferred mail on the ARPANET shortly after its creation. In 1971 Ray Tomlinson created what was to become the standard Internet electronic mail addressing format, using the @ sign to separate mailbox names from host names.\n\nA number of protocols were developed to deliver messages among groups of time-sharing computers over alternative transmission systems, such as UUCP and IBM's VNET email system. Email could be passed this way between a number of networks, including ARPANET, BITNET and NSFNET, as well as to hosts connected directly to other sites via UUCP. See the history of SMTP protocol.\n\nIn addition, UUCP allowed the publication of text files that could be read by many others. The News software developed by Steve Daniel and Tom Truscott in 1979 was used to distribute news and bulletin board-like messages. This quickly grew into discussion groups, known as newsgroups, on a wide range of topics. On ARPANET and NSFNET similar discussion groups would form via mailing lists, discussing both technical issues and more culturally focused topics (such as science fiction, discussed on the sflovers mailing list).\n\nDuring the early years of the Internet, email and similar mechanisms were also fundamental to allow people to access resources that were not available due to the absence of online connectivity. UUCP was often used to distribute files using the 'alt.binary' groups. Also, FTP e-mail gateways allowed people that lived outside the US and Europe to download files using ftp commands written inside email messages. The file was encoded, broken in pieces and sent by email; the receiver had to reassemble and decode it later, and it was the only way for people living overseas to download items such as the earlier Linux versions using the slow dial-up connections available at the time. After the popularization of the Web and the HTTP protocol such tools were slowly abandoned.\n\nAs the Internet grew through the 1980s and early 1990s, many people realized the increasing need to be able to find and organize files and information. Projects such as Archie, Gopher, WAIS, and the FTP Archive list attempted to create ways to organize distributed data. In the early 1990s, Gopher, invented by Mark P. McCahill offered a viable alternative to the World Wide Web. However, in 1993 the World Wide Web saw many advances to indexing and ease of access through search engines, which often neglected Gopher and Gopherspace. As popularity increased through ease of use, investment incentives also grew until in the middle of 1994 the WWW's popularity gained the upper hand. Then it became clear that Gopher and the other projects were doomed fall short.\n\nOne of the most promising user interface paradigms during this period was hypertext. The technology had been inspired by Vannevar Bush's \"Memex\" and developed through Ted Nelson's research on Project Xanadu and Douglas Engelbart's research on NLS. Many small self-contained hypertext systems had been created before, such as Apple Computer's HyperCard (1987). Gopher became the first commonly used hypertext interface to the Internet. While Gopher menu items were examples of hypertext, they were not commonly perceived in that way.\nIn 1989, while working at CERN, Tim Berners-Lee invented a network-based implementation of the hypertext concept. By releasing his invention to public use, he ensured the technology would become widespread. For his work in developing the World Wide Web, Berners-Lee received the Millennium technology prize in 2004. One early popular web browser, modeled after HyperCard, was ViolaWWW.\n\nA turning point for the World Wide Web began with the introduction of the Mosaic web browser in 1993, a graphical browser developed by a team at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign (NCSA-UIUC), led by Marc Andreessen. Funding for Mosaic came from the High-Performance Computing and Communications Initiative, a funding program initiated by the High Performance Computing and Communication Act of 1991, also known as the \"Gore Bill\". Mosaic's graphical interface soon became more popular than Gopher, which at the time was primarily text-based, and the WWW became the preferred interface for accessing the Internet. (Gore's reference to his role in \"creating the Internet\", however, was ridiculed in his presidential election campaign. See the full article Al Gore and information technology).\n\nMosaic was superseded in 1994 by Andreessen's Netscape Navigator, which replaced Mosaic as the world's most popular browser. While it held this title for some time, eventually competition from Internet Explorer and a variety of other browsers almost completely displaced it. Another important event held on January 11, 1994, was \"The Superhighway Summit\" at UCLA's Royce Hall. This was the \"first public conference bringing together all of the major industry, government and academic leaders in the field [and] also began the national dialogue about the \"Information Superhighway\" and its implications.\"\n\n\"24 Hours in Cyberspace\", \"the largest one-day online event\" (February 8, 1996) up to that date, took place on the then-active website, \"cyber24.com.\" It was headed by photographer Rick Smolan. A photographic exhibition was unveiled at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History on January 23, 1997, featuring 70 photos from the project.\n\nEven before the World Wide Web, there were search engines that attempted to organize the Internet. The first of these was the Archie search engine from McGill University in 1990, followed in 1991 by WAIS and Gopher. All three of those systems predated the invention of the World Wide Web but all continued to index the Web and the rest of the Internet for several years after the Web appeared. There are still Gopher servers as of 2006, although there are a great many more web servers.\n\nAs the Web grew, search engines and Web directories were created to track pages on the Web and allow people to find things. The first full-text Web search engine was WebCrawler in 1994. Before WebCrawler, only Web page titles were searched. Another early search engine, Lycos, was created in 1993 as a university project, and was the first to achieve commercial success. During the late 1990s, both Web directories and Web search engines were popular—Yahoo! (founded 1994) and Altavista (founded 1995) were the respective industry leaders. By August 2001, the directory model had begun to give way to search engines, tracking the rise of Google (founded 1998), which had developed new approaches to relevancy ranking. Directory features, while still commonly available, became after-thoughts to search engines.\n\nDatabase size, which had been a significant marketing feature through the early 2000s, was similarly displaced by emphasis on relevancy ranking, the methods by which search engines attempt to sort the best results first. Relevancy ranking first became a major issue circa 1996, when it became apparent that it was impractical to review full lists of results. Consequently, algorithms for relevancy ranking have continuously improved. Google's PageRank method for ordering the results has received the most press, but all major search engines continually refine their ranking methodologies with a view toward improving the ordering of results. As of 2006, search engine rankings are more important than ever, so much so that an industry has developed (\"search engine optimizers\", or \"SEO\") to help web-developers improve their search ranking, and an entire body of case law has developed around matters that affect search engine rankings, such as use of trademarks in metatags. The sale of search rankings by some search engines has also created controversy among librarians and consumer advocates.\n\nOn June 3, 2009, Microsoft launched its new search engine, Bing. The following month Microsoft and Yahoo! announced a deal in which Bing would power Yahoo! Search.\n\nResource or file sharing has been an important activity on computer networks from well before the Internet was established and was supported in a variety of ways including bulletin board systems (1978), Usenet (1980), Kermit (1981), and many others. The File Transfer Protocol (FTP) for use on the Internet was standardized in 1985 and is still in use today. A variety of tools were developed to aid the use of FTP by helping users discover files they might want to transfer, including the Wide Area Information Server (WAIS) in 1991, Gopher in 1991, Archie in 1991, Veronica in 1992, Jughead in 1993, Internet Relay Chat (IRC) in 1988, and eventually the World Wide Web (WWW) in 1991 with Web directories and Web search engines.\n\nIn 1999, Napster became the first peer-to-peer file sharing system. Napster used a central server for indexing and peer discovery, but the storage and transfer of files was decentralized. A variety of peer-to-peer file sharing programs and services with different levels of decentralization and anonymity followed, including: Gnutella, eDonkey2000, and Freenet in 2000, FastTrack, Kazaa, Limewire, and BitTorrent in 2001, and Poisoned in 2003.\n\nAll of these tools are general purpose and can be used to share a wide variety of content, but sharing of music files, software, and later movies and videos are major uses. And while some of this sharing is legal, large portions are not. Lawsuits and other legal actions caused Napster in 2001, eDonkey2000 in 2005, Kazaa in 2006, and Limewire in 2010 to shut down or refocus their efforts. The Pirate Bay, founded in Sweden in 2003, continues despite a trial and appeal in 2009 and 2010 that resulted in jail terms and large fines for several of its founders. File sharing remains contentious and controversial with charges of theft of intellectual property on the one hand and charges of censorship on the other.\n\nSuddenly the low price of reaching millions worldwide, and the possibility of selling to or hearing from those people at the same moment when they were reached, promised to overturn established business dogma in advertising, mail-order sales, customer relationship management, and many more areas. The web was a new killer app—it could bring together unrelated buyers and sellers in seamless and low-cost ways. Entrepreneurs around the world developed new business models, and ran to their nearest venture capitalist. While some of the new entrepreneurs had experience in business and economics, the majority were simply people with ideas, and did not manage the capital influx prudently. Additionally, many dot-com business plans were predicated on the assumption that by using the Internet, they would bypass the distribution channels of existing businesses and therefore not have to compete with them; when the established businesses with strong existing brands developed their own Internet presence, these hopes were shattered, and the newcomers were left attempting to break into markets dominated by larger, more established businesses. Many did not have the ability to do so.\n\nThe dot-com bubble burst in March 2000, with the technology heavy NASDAQ Composite index peaking at 5,048.62 on March 10 (5,132.52 intraday), more than double its value just a year before. By 2001, the bubble's deflation was running full speed. A majority of the dot-coms had ceased trading, after having burnt through their venture capital and IPO capital, often without ever making a profit. But despite this, the Internet continues to grow, driven by commerce, ever greater amounts of online information and knowledge and social networking.\n\nThe first mobile phone with Internet connectivity was the Nokia 9000 Communicator, launched in Finland in 1996. The viability of Internet services access on mobile phones was limited until prices came down from that model, and network providers started to develop systems and services conveniently accessible on phones. NTT DoCoMo in Japan launched the first mobile Internet service, i-mode, in 1999 and this is considered the birth of the mobile phone Internet services. In 2001, the mobile phone email system by Research in Motion (now BlackBerry Limited) for their BlackBerry product was launched in America. To make efficient use of the small screen and tiny keypad and one-handed operation typical of mobile phones, a specific document and networking model was created for mobile devices, the Wireless Application Protocol (WAP). Most mobile device Internet services operate using WAP. The growth of mobile phone services was initially a primarily Asian phenomenon with Japan, South Korea and Taiwan all soon finding the majority of their Internet users accessing resources by phone rather than by PC. Developing countries followed, with India, South Africa, Kenya, the Philippines, and Pakistan all reporting that the majority of their domestic users accessed the Internet from a mobile phone rather than a PC. The European and North American use of the Internet was influenced by a large installed base of personal computers, and the growth of mobile phone Internet access was more gradual, but had reached national penetration levels of 20–30% in most Western countries. The cross-over occurred in 2008, when more Internet access devices were mobile phones than personal computers. In many parts of the developing world, the ratio is as much as 10 mobile phone users to one PC user.\n\nWeb pages were initially conceived as structured documents based upon Hypertext Markup Language (HTML) which can allow access to images, video, and other content. Hyperlinks in the page permit users to navigate to other pages. In the earliest browsers, images opened in a separate \"helper\" application. Marc Andreessen's 1993 Mosaic and 1994 Netscape introduced mixed text and images for non-technical users. HTML evolved during the 1990s, leading to HTML 4 which introduced large elements of CSS styling and, later, extensions to allow browser code to make calls and ask for content from servers in a structured way (AJAX).\n\nThere are nearly insurmountable problems in supplying a historiography of the Internet's development. The process of digitization represents a twofold challenge both for historiography in general and, in particular, for historical communication research. A sense of the difficulty in documenting early developments that led to the internet can be gathered from the quote:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4729889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4729889", "title": "Housing and Community Development Act of 1974", "text": "Housing and Community Development Act of 1974\n\nThe Housing and Community Development Act of 1974, (12 U.S.C. 1706e), is a United States federal law that, among other provisions, amended the Housing Act of 1937 to create Section 8 housing, authorizes \"Entitlement Communities Grants\" to be awarded by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, and created the National Institute of Building Sciences. Under Section 810 of the Act the first federal Urban Homesteading program was created.\n\nThe S. 3066 legislation was passed by the United States 93rd Congressional session and enacted into law by the 38th President of the United States Gerald Ford on August 22, 1974.\n\n"}
{"id": "30722663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30722663", "title": "Larry Kramer (legal scholar)", "text": "Larry Kramer (legal scholar)\n\nLarry Kramer (born 1958) is an American legal scholar and nonprofit executive. He is the current president of the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the former dean of Stanford Law School (2004–2012). He is a scholar of both constitutional law and civil procedure.\n\nKramer graduated magna cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa from Brown University in 1980 with an A.B. in Psychology and Religious Studies. He then graduated Order of the Coif and cum laude from the University of Chicago Law School in 1984.\n\nAfter law school, Kramer clerked for U.S. Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan Jr. (1985–86) and Judge Henry J. Friendly of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (1984–85).\n\nKramer was an assistant professor at the University of Chicago Law School from 1986-1990 and a professor from 1990-1991. He then served as a visiting professor at the University of Michigan Law School from 1990-1991, and as a professor from 1991-1994. Kramer was a visiting professor at New York University Law School from 1993-1994, as well as at Harvard University Law School in 1997, and at Columbia University Law School in 2001. From 1994 to 2004 he was the Associate Dean for Research and Academics and the Russell D. Niles Professor at New York University Law School. From 2004-2012 he served as the Richard E. Lang Professor and Dean at Stanford Law School. Before joining Stanford, he served as a consultant for Mayer Brown.\n\nDuring his tenure at Stanford, Kramer spearheaded major reforms, including the expansion of joint degree programs as part of a multidisciplinary approach to legal studies. He enlarged the clinical education program and revamped programs to foster a public service ethos, and built out the international law program to support a growing emphasis on globalization in legal practice. He was a major supporter of the Afghanistan Legal Education Program, an initiative led by Stanford Law Students to develop innovative legal curricula to help Afghanistan's university train the next generation of lawyers and leaders.\n\nKramer has written and taught in such varied fields as constitutional law, conflict of laws, civil procedure, federal and its history, and the role of courts in society. He is the author of numerous books and articles, including \"The People Themselves: Popular Constitutionalism and Judicial Review\", \"Reforming the Civil Justice System\", \"Conflict of Laws: Cases-Comments-Questions\", \"Judicial Supremacy and the End of Judicial Restraint\", \"Madison's Audience\", and \"Popular Constitutionalism\".\n\nKramer serves on the board of directors of Equal Justice Works, a nonprofit organization that helps advance public interest law, and the ClimateWorks Foundation. Kramer is also an advisor to Ravel Law, a legal research start-up founded by two Stanford Law students while he was Dean.\n"}
{"id": "3733873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3733873", "title": "Loan guarantee", "text": "Loan guarantee\n\nA loan guarantee, in finance, is a promise by one party (the guarantor) to assume the debt obligation of a borrower if that borrower defaults. A guarantee can be limited or unlimited, making the guarantor liable for only a portion or all of the debt.\n\nThere are two main types:\n\nPopular with young borrowers who do not have a large deposit saved and need to borrow up to 100% of the property value to purchase a property. Generally, their parents will provide a guarantee to the lender to cover any shortfall in the event of default.\n\nThere are three main types \n\nAn unsecured personal loan that is popular with borrowers who have a poor credit rating. They also require the guarantor to meet the borrower’s obligations if they default on their loan repayments.\n\nThe term can be used to refer to a government to assume a private debt obligation if the borrower defaults. Most loan guarantee programs are established to correct perceived market failures by which small borrowers, regardless of creditworthiness, lack access to the credit resources available to large borrowers.\n\nLoan guarantees can also be extended to large borrowers for national security reasons, help companies in essential industries, or in situations where the failure of a large company will harm the larger economy, For example, Chrysler Corporation, one of the \"big three\" US automobile manufacturers, obtained a loan guarantee in 1979 amid its near-collapse, and lobbying by labor interests. The loans are made by private lenders with the caveat that the government will pay off the loans if the company defaults on them. Chrysler did not go into default. Another example was the creation of the Emergency Loan Guarantee Board to administer $250 million dollars in US government loan guarantees made to private lenders on behalf of Lockheed in 1971. The program ended in 1977 when Lockheed restructured its debt to its 24 lending banks ending the program ended. Over $30 million in Guarantee commitment fees paid by Lockheed and it's lenders to the board created over $29 million transferred to the US treasury. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1923494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1923494", "title": "Material efficiency", "text": "Material efficiency\n\nMaterial efficiency is a description or metric which expresses the degree in which raw materials are consumed, incorporated, or wasted, as compared to previous measures in construction projects or physical processes. Making a usable item out of thinner stock than a prior version increases the material efficiency of the manufacturing process. Material efficiency goes hand in hand with Green building and Energy conservation, as well as any other ways of incorporating Renewable resource's in the building process from start to finish.\n\nMaterial efficiency can also mean the degree in which a material can handle a particular load, strain or weight upon it. Material efficiency can be achieved through using recycled materials, materials that use renewable energy, and other ways. For example, using recycled steel instead of new steel \"reduces the energy produced in making the steel by 75 percent, and saves space in landfills as well.\" Material efficiency, \"entails the pursuit of the technical strategies, business models, consumer preferences and policy instruments that would lead to a substantial reduction in the production of high-volume energy-intensive materials required to deliver human well-being. The motivations for material efficiency include reducing energy demand, reducing the emissions and other environmental impacts of industry, and increasing national resource security. With a growing population and increasing wealth, demand for material extraction and processing is likely to double in the next 40 years. The environmental impacts of the required processing will become critical.\"\n\nUsing materials that are more \"efficient\" in the building process today can be less expensive and energy intensive than using new building materials. An example of this would be using recycled steel to erect the frame of a building instead of using wooden timbers. Using recycled steel saves room in landfills that the steel would otherwise be taking up, saves 75% of the energy required to produce steel in the production process, and saves trees from being cut down to build homes. The recycled steel can be fashioned in the exact dimensions needed for building and can be made into \"customized steel beams and panels to fit each specific design.\" These new, more efficient materials, can cost more initially when being used in building but in time will save money through lower heating/cooling bills, lower electric bills, and other kinds of bills. Over time you can recoup your money and save even more all the while staying comfortable inside your home.\n\nThere are three types of light bulbs today that are very popular: Incandescent Light Bulbs, Compact Fluorescent Light Bulbs (CFL's), and Light Emitting Diodes (LED's). Electric lighting alone can account for around 14% of your current home energy bill. In addition to this, only 10 percent of the electricity used by an incandescent bulb generates light; the rest is wasted. Here are two tables comparing the three types of lightbulbs:\n\nAnother way to reduce electricity conumption and save money with lighting is by installing dimming switches with these bulbs. A dimmer can increase and decrease the amount of light emitted by the bulb to your liking. It can not make a light bulb brighter than its maximum already is but it can reduce it thus using less electricity and saving you money.\n\nPopular materials used for insulation are fiber glass, rock wool, and slag wool. After being manufactured these items require no energy to use and require no maintenance unless damaged. Using inflation properly is the most effective way to reduce energy use and green house gas emissions.\n\nFacts about today's insulation:\n\nThere is a new \"generation\" of insulation being released to the public recently. Plant-based Polyurethane Rigid Foam is made from plants such as bamboo, hemp, and kelp, that \"offers high moisture and heat resistance, excellent acoustics and protection against mold and pests. It also has a higher R-value than fiberglass or polystyrene, meaning that it has a higher thermal resistance and insulates better.\" The hygroscopic properties of bio-based insulation mean that they can absorb and store moisture from the surrounding air, according to project partner Patricia María Pérez Tarancón at Acciona, Madrid, Spain. \"The material behaves as a moisture buffer,\" she says, \"This softens the relative humidity changes in the environment, reducing risks from common pollutants such as bacteria, viruses, chemical reactions, allergies and respiratory infections, as well as reducing the need for air-conditioning.\" These plant-based insulation techniques can be cheaper, healthier, save more energy in houses and buildings, as well as cut energy consumption in the manufacturing process of insulation.\n\nAnother more efficient way to cut energy consumption and save money along with newer plant-based insulation is with proper roofing. \"Cool Roofing\" involves using roofing which direct sunlight back into the atmosphere instead of being absorbed by the material and being passed into the building. This Cool Roofing can save money by lowering the cost of keeping a building cool with air conditioners. The same process can be used to keep heat in and lower the cost of a heating bill. A cool roof is one that has been designed to reflect more sunlight and absorb less heat than a standard roof. Cool roofs can be made of a highly reflective type of paint, a sheet covering, or highly reflective tiles or shingles. \nBenefits of a Cool Roof:\n\nIncorporating recycled materials into the manufacturing process of new goods is an integral change. Mineral resources are finite, such as bauxite ore for aluminum or fossil fuels to make plastics, so it is imperative to start reusing what we have already mined so that we do not deplete what is left. There are many technologies available that help tremendously with recycling efforts such as near-infrared equipment which, \"is a common sortation technology in large recycling operations and can accurately identify many different types of polymers.\" Near-infrared equipment is a much easier way to sort through plastics compared to the human eye.\n\nAluminum offers the most savings, with cans from recycled material requiring as little as 4% of the energy required to make the same cans from bauxite ore. Metals don't degrade as they're recycled in the same way plastics and paper do, fibers shortening every cycle, so many metals are prime candidates for recycling, especially considering their high value per ton compared to other recyclables.\n\nPolystyrene from recycled material costs 88% less than without recycling, but a negligible amount of polystyrene is recycled in the United States because of the difficulty sorting it from other plastics. Other plastic products like polyethylene terephthalate soft drink bottles cost 76% less to manufacture form recycled materials, and this percentage as well as the variety of plastics that can be recycled is expected to increase with new separation technologies such as froth flotation and skin flotation. [3,6] Nonetheless, plastic degrades every time it's recycled, so some plastic will always need to come directly from fossil oils if such products are to continue to be produced.\n\nPaper (in particular newspaper) and glass have lower energy savings than the previous materials, with recycled products costing 45% and 21% less energy respectively. Recycled paper has a large market in China, although work still needs to be done to facilitate mixed paper recycling as opposed to newspaper.\n\nIf we were to utilize these recycling methods we would not have to expend energy and resources on mining for new resources to use in manufacturing. Recycled aluminum, for example, has the same properties as newly manufactured aluminum but expends so much less energy in the manufacturing process. This is assuming however that recycling plants are being run in the most efficient ways possible.\n\nReusing current materials uses even less energy than recycling. Reusing is preferred to recycling because it eliminates the cost of transport to a recycling plant, sorting, re-manufacturing, distributing, and there are no wages needed to be paid to employees for doing these tasks. Reusable containers only have to be manufactured once for hundreds or thousands of uses (such as a water bottle used every day for years), and the energy cost between uses is approximately that of cleaning the container with soap and water, a negligible expense compared to sorting, melting down, and pouring the material into a mold again, for example. Reusing containers could, in theory, replace recyclable containers and one-use containers, if made out of a durable enough material. There are inconveniences that go along with reusing materials however. Some of these inconveniences include having to clean the containers between uses, carrying around full or empty containers, and they require a time commitment due to having to hold on to them instead of throwing them away.\n\nFor products with glass containers, a deposit-refund system to encourage people to return the containers to the store for reuse seems more useful than recycling, given glass's durability and the small energy savings for recycling it. Reuse doesn't work as well for printed paper, or for non-container metal or plastic items such as electronics or packing material, so recycling may still be the best option in these cases.\n\n"}
{"id": "1811637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1811637", "title": "Matrilineal succession", "text": "Matrilineal succession\n\nMatrilineal succession is a form of hereditary succession or other inheritance through which the subject's female relatives are traced back in a matrilineal line.\n\n\nOne of early dynasties of China had similar practices. History postulates that there, a father-in-law was typically succeeded by his son-in-law. However, this again is obviously not a female succeeding a female, but a form of succession by appointment: the monarch chose his successor, and formalized that appointment by marrying the chosen man with a royal daughter, which also worked as a way to legitimize the succession.\n\nThe order of succession to the position of the Rain Queen is an example in an African culture of matrilineal primogeniture: not only is dynastic descent reckoned through the female line, but only females are eligible to inherit.\n\nThe matrilineal succession is prevalent among many sects in Asia. These include the Minangkabau culture of West Sumatra, Marumakkathayam or Aliyasantana system among Nairs and Tuluva's of India. The Undangs of Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia exhibit matrilineal succession in their elective chieftaincies. \nSimilar traditions exist among the Khasi and Garo of Meghalaya, India, the Naxi of China, the Gitksan of British Columbia, the Iroquois Confederacy (Haudenosaunee), the Hopi, the Berbers.\n\nIn societies using matrilineal descent, the social relationship between children and their biological father tends to be different because he is not a member of their matrilineal family. For example, the man who would have the formal responsibilities that Western cultures assign to a father would be a boy's mother's brother, since he is the closest elder male kinsman.\n\nSimilarly, inheritance patterns for men in matrilineal societies often reflect the importance of the mother's brother. For example, in the Ashanti Kingdom of Central Ghana, a king traditionally passes his title and status on to his sister's son. A king's own biological son does not inherit the kingship because he is not a member of the ruling matrilineal family group. Women usually inherit status and property directly from their mothers in matrilineal societies.\n"}
{"id": "364173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364173", "title": "Meiji Constitution", "text": "Meiji Constitution\n\nThe Constitution of the Empire of Japan (Kyūjitai: 大日本帝國憲法; Shinjitai: 大日本帝国憲法 \"Dai-Nippon Teikoku Kenpō\"), known informally as the Meiji Constitution (明治憲法 \"Meiji Kenpō\"), was the constitution of the Empire of Japan which had the proclamation on February 11, 1889, and had enacted since November 29, 1890 until May 2, 1947. Enacted after the Meiji Restoration in 1868, it provided for a form of mixed constitutional and absolute monarchy, based jointly on the Prussian and British models. In theory, the Emperor of Japan was the supreme leader, and the Cabinet, whose Prime Minister would be elected by a Privy Council, were his followers; in practice, the Emperor was head of state but the Prime Minister was the actual head of government. Under the Meiji Constitution, the Prime Minister and his Cabinet were not necessarily chosen from the elected members of the group.\n\nThrough the regular procedure for amendment of the Meiji Constitution, it was entirely revised to become the \"Postwar Constitution\" on November 3, 1946, which has been in force since May 3, 1947.\n\nThe Meiji Restoration in 1868 provided Japan a form of constitutional monarchy based on the Prusso-German model, in which the Emperor of Japan was an active ruler and wielded considerable political power over foreign policy and diplomacy which was shared with an elected Imperial Diet. The Diet primarily dictated domestic policy matters.\n\nAfter the Meiji Restoration, which restored direct political power to the emperor for the first time in over a millennium, Japan underwent a period of sweeping political and social reform and westernization aimed at strengthening Japan to the level of the nations of the Western world. The immediate consequence of the Constitution was the opening of the first Parliamentary government in Asia.\n\nThe Meiji Constitution established clear limits on the power of the executive branch and the Emperor. It also created an independent judiciary. Civil rights and civil liberties were guaranteed, though in many cases they were subject to limitation by law. However, it was ambiguous in wording, and in many places self-contradictory. The leaders of the government and the political parties were left with the task of interpretation as to whether the Meiji Constitution could be used to justify authoritarian or liberal-democratic rule. It was the struggle between these tendencies that dominated the government of the Empire of Japan.\n\nThe Meiji Constitution was used as a model for the 1931 Ethiopian Constitution by the Ethiopian intellectual Tekle Hawariat Tekle Mariyam. This was one of the reasons why the progressive Ethiopian intelligentsia associated with Tekle Hawariat were known as \"Japanizers\".\n\nBy the surrender in the World War II on 2 September 1945, the Empire of Japan was deprived of sovereignty by the Allies, and the Meiji Constitution was suspended. During the Occupation of Japan, the Meiji Constitution was replaced by a new document, the postwar Constitution of Japan. This document—officially an amendment to the Meiji Constitution—replaced imperial rule with a form of Western-style liberal democracy.\n\nPrior to the adoption of the Meiji Constitution, Japan had in practice no written constitution. Originally, a Chinese-inspired legal system and constitution known as \"ritsuryō\" was enacted in the 6th century (in the late Asuka period and early Nara period); it described a government based on an elaborate and theoretically rational meritocratic bureaucracy, serving under the ultimate authority of the emperor and organised following Chinese models. In theory the last \"ritsuryō\" code, the Yōrō Code enacted in 752, was still in force at the time of the Meiji Restoration.\n\nHowever, in practice the \"ritsuryō\" system of government had become largely an empty formality as early as in the middle of the Heian period in the 10th and 11th centuries, a development which was completed by the establishment of the Kamakura Shogunate in 1185. The high positions in the \"ritsuryō\" system remained as sinecures, and the emperor was de-powered and set aside as a symbolic figure who \"reigned, but did not rule\" (on the theory that the living god should not have to defile himself with matters of earthly government).\n\nThe idea of a written constitution had been a subject of heated debate within and without the government since the beginnings of the Meiji government. The conservative Meiji oligarchy viewed anything resembling democracy or republicanism with suspicion and trepidation, and favored a gradualist approach. The Freedom and People's Rights Movement demanded the immediate establishment of an elected national assembly, and the promulgation of a constitution.\n\nOn October 21, 1881, Itō Hirobumi was appointed to chair a government bureau to research various forms of constitutional government, and in 1882, Itō led an overseas mission to observe and study various systems first-hand. The United States Constitution was rejected as \"too liberal\". The French and Spanish models were rejected as tending toward despotism. The Reichstag and legal structures of the German Empire, particularly that of Prussia, proved to be of the most interest to the Constitutional Study Mission. Influence was also drawn from the British Westminster system, although it was considered as being unwieldy and granting too much power to Parliament.\n\nHe also rejected some notions as unfit for Japan, as they stemmed from European constitutional practice and Christianity. He therefore added references to the kokutai or \"national polity\" as the justification of the emperor's authority through his divine descent and the unbroken line of emperors, and the unique relationship between subject and sovereign.\n\nThe Council of State was replaced in 1885 with a cabinet headed by Itō as Prime Minister. The positions of Chancellor, Minister of the Left, and Minister of the Right, which had existed since the seventh century, were abolished. In their place, the Privy Council was established in 1888 to evaluate the forthcoming constitution, and to advise Emperor Meiji.\n\nThe draft committee included Inoue Kowashi, Kaneko Kentarō, Itō Miyoji and Iwakura Tomomi, along with a number of foreign advisors, in particular the German legal scholars Rudolf von Gneist and Lorenz von Stein. The central issue was the balance between sovereignty vested in the person of the Emperor, and an elected representative legislature with powers that would limit or restrict the power of the sovereign. After numerous drafts from 1886–1888, the final version was submitted to Emperor Meiji in April 1888. The Meiji Constitution was drafted in secret by the committee, without public debate.\n\nThe new constitution was promulgated by Emperor Meiji on February 11 (the National Foundation Day of Japan in 660 BC), 1889, but came into effect on November 29, 1890. The first National Diet of Japan, a new representative assembly, convened on the day the Meiji Constitution came into force. The organizational structure of the Diet reflected both Prussian and British influences, most notably in the inclusion of the House of Representatives as the lower house (existing currently, under the Article 42 of the post-war Japanese Constitution based on bicameralism) and the House of Peers as the upper house, (which resembled the Prussian \"Herrenhaus\" and the British House of Lords, now the House of Councillors of Japan under the Article 42 of the post-war Japanese Constitution based on bicameralism), and in the formal Speech from the Throne delivered by the Emperor on Opening Day (existing currently, under the Article 7 of the post-war Japanese Constitution). The second chapter of the constitution, detailing the rights of citizens, bore a resemblance to similar articles in both European and North American constitutions of the day.\n\nThe Meiji Constitution consists of 76 articles in seven chapters, together amounting to around 2,500 words. It is also usually reproduced with its Preamble, the Imperial Oath Sworn in the Sanctuary in the Imperial Palace, and the Imperial Rescript on the Promulgation of the Constitution, which together come to nearly another 1,000 words. The seven chapters are:\n\n\nUnlike its modern successor, the Meiji Constitution was founded on the principle that sovereignty resided in person of the Emperor, by virtue of his divine ancestry \"unbroken for ages eternal\", rather than in the people. Article 4 states that the \"Emperor is the head of the Empire, combining in himself the rights of sovereignty\". The Emperor, nominally at least, united within himself all three branches (executive, legislative and judiciary) of government, although legislation (article 5) and the budget (article 64) were subject to the \"consent of the Imperial Diet\". Laws were issued and justice administered by the courts \"in the name of the Emperor\".\n\nSeparate provisions of the Constitution are contradictory as to whether the Constitution or the Emperor is supreme.\n\n\n\nThe Emperor of Japan had the right to exercise executive authority, and to appoint and dismiss all government officials. The Emperor also had the sole rights to declare war, make peace, conclude treaties, dissolve the lower house of Diet, and issue Imperial ordinances in place of laws when the Diet was not in session. Most importantly, command over the Imperial Japanese Army and Imperial Japanese Navy was directly held by the Emperor, and not the Diet. The Meiji Constitution provided for a cabinet consisting of Ministers of State who answered to the Emperor rather than the Diet, and to the establishment of the Privy Council. Not mentioned in the Constitution were the \"genrō\", an inner circle of advisors to the Emperor, who wielded considerable influence.\n\nUnder the Meiji Constitution, a legislature was established with two Houses. The Upper House, or House of Peers consisted of members of the Imperial Family, hereditary peerage and members appointed by the Emperor. The Lower House, or House of Representatives was elected by direct male suffrage, with qualifications based on amount of tax which was 15 yen or more – these qualifications were loosened in 1900 and 1919 with universal adult male suffrage introduced in 1925. Legislative authority was shared with the Diet, and both the Emperor and the Diet had to agree in order for a measure to become law. On the other hand, the Diet was given the authority to initiate legislation, approve all laws, and approve the budget.\n\nAmendments to the constitution were provided for by Article 73. This stipulated that, to become law, a proposed amendment had to be submitted first to the Diet by the Emperor through an imperial order or rescript. To be approved by the Diet, an amendment had to be adopted in both chambers by a two-thirds majority of the total number of members of each (rather than merely two-thirds of the total number of votes cast). Once it had been approved by the Diet, an amendment was then promulgated into law by the Emperor, who had an absolute right of veto. No amendment to the constitution was permitted during the time of a regency. Despite these provisions, no amendments were made to the imperial constitution from the time it was adopted until its demise in 1947. When the Meiji Constitution was replaced, in order to ensure legal continuity, its successor was adopted in the form of a constitutional amendment.\n\nHowever, according to Article 73 of the Meiji Constitution, the amendment should be authorized by the Emperor. Indeed, the 1947 Constitution was authorized by the Emperor (as was declared in the letter of promulgation), which is in apparent conflict of the 1947 Constitution, according to which that constitution was made and authorized by the nation (\"the principle of popular sovereignty\"). To dissipate such inconsistencies, some peculiar doctrine of \"August Revolution\" was proposed by Toshiyoshi Miyazawa of the University of Tokyo, but without much persuasiveness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19689723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19689723", "title": "Mexican nationality law", "text": "Mexican nationality law\n\nNationality in Mexico is defined by multiple laws, including the 30th article of the Constitution of Mexico and other laws. The Constitution's 32nd article specifies the rights granted by Mexican legislation to Mexicans who also possess dual nationality. This article was written to establish the norms in this subject in order to avoid conflicts which may arise in the case of dual nationality. This law was last modified in 2005. \n\nIn general terms, Mexican nationality is based on both the principle of \"jus soli\" and the principle of \"jus sanguinis\". The Mexican constitution also makes a distinction between nationals of Mexico and citizens of Mexico.\n\nAccording to the 30th article of the Constitution of Mexico, there are two ways in which a person can acquire Mexican nationality: by birth or by naturalization.\n\nThe Mexican Constitution states that Mexican nationals by birth are:\n\nMexicans by naturalization are:\n\nThe Nationality Law establishes also that a foreigner that wishes to naturalize must do the following:\n\nMexican nationality entails several obligations set forth in the 31st article of the Constitution, namely:\n\nDocuments that serve as proof of nationality are the following:\n\nAs in most other Central and South American countries, Mexican law differentiates between nationality and citizenship. Nationality is the attribute of the person in international law that describes their relationship to the State, whereas citizenship is given to those nationals (those who hold Mexican nationality) that have certain rights and responsibilities before the State. The 34th article of the Mexican constitution establishes that Mexican citizens are those Mexican [nationals] who are 18 years of age or older, and who have an \"honest way of living\". Mexican citizens have these rights:\n\nMexican law also distinguishes between naturalized citizens and natural-born citizens in many ways. Under the Mexican constitution, naturalized citizens are prohibited from serving in a wide array of positions, mostly governmental. Naturalized Mexicans cannot occupy any of following posts:\n\nThe 37th article of the constitution establishes that Mexicans by birth (natural born Mexicans) can never be deprived of their nationality, as defined in the Nationality law, in the acquisition of another nationality. However, \"naturalized\" Mexicans may lose their nationality by doing the following:\n\nEven though Mexican nationals by birth can never involuntarily lose their nationality, Mexican citizenship, and thus its prerogatives, may be lost if a person does the following:\n\nMexican nationals can give up their nationality for the purpose of acquiring another nationality.\n\nThe Mexican nationality law acknowledges that a Mexican by birth may possess another nationality. If that is the case, however, such an individual must always enter and leave the country as a Mexican (by presenting a Mexican proof of citizenship). The law also established that regardless of possession of another nationality, an individual will always be considered a Mexican national and or cannot claim protection from a foreign country in certain cases:\n\nAll Mexican nationals by birth who possess another nationality cannot be elected for or work in public office only in those cases that the law clearly establishes that they must not acquire another nationality. If in such a case, she or he can request a Certificate of Nationality from the government, renouncing the other nationality.\n\nVisa requirements for Mexican citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Mexico. In 2017, Mexican citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 142 countries and territories, ranking the Mexican passport 26th in terms of travel freedom according to the Henley visa restrictions index.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6878880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6878880", "title": "Missouri Proposition B (1999)", "text": "Missouri Proposition B (1999)\n\nProposition B in Missouri was a failed 1999 ballot measure that would have required local police authorities to issue concealed weapons permits to eligible citizens. It was a contentious issue and was narrowly rejected at the time by the electorate, but the legislature later approved similar legislation in 2003.\n\nSupport for concealed carry laws in Missouri grew gradually throughout the 1990s. In 1991, a group to promote such laws called \"the conference\" was formed and that nickname was used until the Missouri Legislative Issues Council (MOLIC) was formed in 1995 for official recognition. Support for these laws increased in part as a response to the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act and other national gun control efforts.\n\nAfter author/columnist John Ross made his attempts to convince Missouri legislators, other supporters also emerged. The NRA formed Missourians \"Against\" Crime (MAC) in 1998 as their spokesman into Missouri. This created an issue with the MOLIC membership. Negative campaigns seldom succeed in Missouri. The MOLIC organization was transformed into Missourians \"for\" Personal Safety(MPS) for the 1998 Proposition B campaign with Steve McGhee as the President. These combined efforts brought notoriety to Greg Jeffery, attorney/author Kevin Jamison, and Tim Oliver, to the forefront of their local/regional news media. As the Missouri Sport Shooting Association (MSSA), joined (unofficially) in support, they all proceeded with their regional campaigning attempts. Eventually, more and more individuals heard of these volunteers/members and took up the task to support the proposition with smaller meetings and neighborhood 'grass roots' action groups.\n\nPolice Officers generally supported the measure: \"In a recent poll, more than eighty-five percent of our 1352 members favored Right-to-Carry.\", Letter to St. Louis Police Chief Ron Henderson, from Sgt. John J. Johnson, President St. Louis Police Officers Association, 1/23/99.\"\n\nThe Gateway Civil Liberties Alliance (GCLA) arose after the failure to pass the proposition in 1999; forming itself from MOLIC, MPS, and with WMSA giving support, to become the leadership and legislative clearing house for the 2003 success in passing a shall-issue law. Frequent trips to Jefferson City by Greg Jeffery (GCLA cofounder) earned him the nickname 'braintrust' to a newly created law that was adopted by Missouri in 2003.\n\nHandgun Control, Inc., saw this as their test case before the elections in 2000 to exercise their political influence and lobbied hard to defeat the referendum.<ref name=\"MPS/MOCCW\"></ref> Political notables included the Clinton/Gore Administration with Attorney General Janet Reno playing a secondary role to Hillary Clinton's activism, Governor Mel Carnahan and his daughter Robin Carnahan, the 1994 appointed Secretary of State, Rebecca Cook, and State Auditor, Claire McCaskill.\n\nRobin Carnahan chaired the Safe Schools and Workplaces Committee (SSWC) and orchestrated television ads against the proposition. Also, on the weekend prior to voting day, that organization coordinated the taped phone message from Hillary Clinton to automatically dial 75,000 homes statewide with the message, \"just too dangerous for Missouri families.\"\n\nThe General Assembly approved the following ballot language:\n\nShall state or local law enforcement agencies be authorized to issue permits to law-abiding citizens at least twenty-one years of age to carry concealed firearms outside their home for personal protection after having passed a state and federal criminal background check and having completed a firearms safety training course approved by the Missouri Department of Public Safety?\n\nAfter a lawsuit filed by the opponents of the measure, the language was changed. The final text read:\n\n\"Shall sheriffs, or in the case of St. Louis County, the chief of police, be required to issue permits to carry concealed firearms to citizens who apply if various statutory requirements are satisfied?\" Because of the discretion given to local law enforcement to verify the accuracy of applications, the costs are uncertain. Application fees are estimated to cover most costs for the first three years. Subsequently, local governments, as a whole, may incur costs from $500,000 to $1,000,000 annually, not covered by fees.\n\nMissouri Sport Shooting Association President Kevin Jamison described it as, \"The opposition conducted a poll of the ballot language which determined that 60% of the state would vote in favor of License to Carry. Outraged that the people might \"speak wrong\", the Governor's lawyer filed a suit with the Missouri Supreme Court to change the ballot language. The defendants in the suit were Attorney General Jay Nixon and State Auditor Claire McCaskill.\"\n\nThe use of official government resources by opponents of the measure was controversial.\n\nMissouri's two US Attorneys are using the Justice Department's name and facilities to lobby against the state's concealed weapons ballot issue. Using official department letterhead, the attorneys, Edward Dowd and Stephen Hill, urged sheriffs and police chiefs across the state to rally resistance against Proposition B, which is on the ballot this April. Dowd's office is operating an 800 number which people can call to obtain anti-prop B campaigning materials. Calls to the 800 number, 1-800-214-2690, are answered with \"US Attorneys Office.\"\n\nSome advertisements used in the campaign were deceptive, particularly an opposition ad that implied Missourians would be allowed to carry Uzis that continued into 2000.\n\nProposition B gained 634,361 votes in favor (48.3%) and 678,256 votes against (51.7%), thus being defeated by a margin of 3.3%.\n\nThe majority of voters in rural Missouri voted in favor of Proposition B. However, urban voters, particularly in St. Louis and Kansas City, tipped the balance against Proposition B. 74.1% of the voters in the city of St. Louis, 69.5% in St. Louis County, and 71.6% in Kansas City opposed Proposition B.\nIn 2003, after ignoring the results of Proposition B, the Missouri General Assembly passed new laws to enable shall-issue permits.\n\nThe following persons played important roles in the creation of law in the State of Missouri. This is not their biography but an outline of the positions held during the 1999 Proposition B campaigns.\n\nPro-2nd Amendment activist.\n\nJohn Ross Author/Columnist\n\nConcealed Firearms Instructor\n\n1998 Chairman/Co-founder; Missouri Legislative Issues Council (MOLIC).\n\nCo-founder; Missourians for Personal Safety (MPS)\n\nSupporter, Missouri Sport Shooting Association (MSSA)\n\nPro-2nd Amendment activist.\n\nAttorney/Author\n\nCo-founder; Missouri Legislative Issues Council (MOLIC)\n\nCo-founder; Missourians for Personal Safety (MPS)\n\n2006 President, Missouri Sport Shooting Association (MSSA)\n\nPro-2nd Amendment activist. \nConceal Carry Firearms Instructor\n\nCo-founder; Missouri Legislative Issues Council (MOLIC)\n\nCo-founder; Missourians for Personal Safety (MPS)\n\nSupporter; Missouri Sport Shooting Association (MSSA)\n\nPro-2nd Amendment activist.\n\nCo-founder; Missouri Legislative Issues Council (MOLIC)\n\nCo-founder; Missourians for Personal Safety (MPS)\n\nSupporter, Missouri Sport Shooting Association (MSSA)\n\nCo-founder The Gateway Civil Liberties Alliance (GCLA)\n\nLegislative Consultant to Missouri Lawmakers.\n\nPro-2nd Amendment activist.\n\nNRA Master Training Counselor/Instructor\n\n1998 President, Missouri Sport Shooting Association (MSSA)\n\n1999 President/Co-founder; Missourians for Personal Safety (MPS)\n\nPro-Gun Control activist.\nGovernor Mel Carnahan pledged neutrality.\nRobin Carnahan chaired the Safe Schools and Workplaces Committee (SSWC)\n\nPro-Gun Control activist.\n\nUS Attorneys: (established 1-800-214-2690) \n\nPro-Gun Control & Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act activist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3749062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3749062", "title": "National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers", "text": "National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers\n\nThe National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers (NACDL) is an American criminal defense organization.\n\nMembers include private criminal defense lawyers, public defenders, active U.S. military defense counsel, law professors, judges, and defense counsel in international criminal tribunals, including the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.\n\nNACDL, headquartered in Washington, D.C., was founded in 1958, has nearly 9,000 direct members and 90 state, local, and international affiliate criminal defense lawyer organizations with a total of about 40,000 members.\n\nThe organization has worked to build coalitions of legal organizations in order to provide a forum for important legal issues. Groups such as the American Bar Association, American Civil Liberties Union, the Constitution Project, Federalist Society, Heritage Foundation, and the Washington Legal Foundation have been involved with these projects.\nNACDL will occasionally submit briefs in support of petitioners where the outcome will have a bearing upon the organization's membership.\n\n\"The Champion\" magazine is the official journal of NACDL and offers timely, informative articles written for and by criminal defense lawyers, featuring the latest developments in search and seizure laws, DUI/DWI, grand jury proceedings, \"habeas corpus\", the exclusionary rule, death penalty, Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO), federal sentencing guidelines, forfeiture, white-collar crime, and more.\n\nIn 2012, NACDL launched The Criminal Docket podcast. Hosted by Ivan J. Dominguez, it features a rundown of criminal justice news stories and interviews with \"leaders in the legal practice, public policy, journalism, academia, and others whose lives intersect with the criminal justice system.\"\n\nNACDL regularly issues news releases on a variety of topics of interest to its membership and the public. Topics include pertinent legislation and regulations, report releases, adopted resolutions, and U.S. Supreme Court case activity.\n\nThe Association also writes reports and white papers on critical issues facing the American criminal justice system. Some examples include \"Collateral Damage: America’s Failure to Forgive or Forget in the War on Crime – A Roadmap to Restore Rights and Status After Arrest and Conviction\" (2014) and \"Summary Injustice: A Look at Constitutional Deficiencies in South Carolina’s Summary Courts\" (2016).\n\n"}
{"id": "22290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22290", "title": "Open-source license", "text": "Open-source license\n\n<onlyinclude>An open-source license is a type of license for computer software and other products that allows the source code, blueprint or design to be used, modified and/or shared under defined terms and conditions. This allows end users and commercial companies to review and modify the source code, blueprint or design for their own customization, curiosity or troubleshooting needs. Open-source licensed software is mostly available free of charge, though this does not necessarily have to be the case. Licenses which only permit non-commercial redistribution or modification of the source code for personal use only are generally not considered as open-source licenses. However, open-source licenses may have some restrictions, particularly regarding the expression of respect to the origin of software, such as a requirement to preserve the name of the authors and a copyright statement within the code, or a requirement to redistribute the licensed software only under the same license (as in a copyleft license). One popular set of open-source software licenses are those approved by the Open Source Initiative (OSI) based on their Open Source Definition (OSD).</onlyinclude>\n\nThe Free Software Foundation has related but distinct criteria for evaluating whether or not a license qualifies software as free software. Most free software licenses are also considered open-source software licenses. In the same way, the Debian project has its own criteria, the Debian Free Software Guidelines, on which the Open Source Definition is based. In the interpretation of the FSF, open-source license criteria focus on the availability of the \"source code\" and the ability to modify and share it, while free software licenses focuses on the user's freedom to use the \"program\", to modify it, and to share it.\n\nSource-available licenses ensure source code availability, but do not necessarily meet the user freedom criteria to be classified as free software or open-source software.\n\nAround 2004 lawyer Lawrence Rosen argued in the essay \"Why the public domain isn't a license\" software could not truly be waived into the public domain and can't therefore be interpreted as very permissive open-source license, a position which faced opposition by Daniel J. Bernstein and others. In 2012 the dispute was finally resolved when Rosen accepted the CC0 as an open-source license, while admitting that contrary to his previous claims copyright can be waived away, backed by Ninth Circuit decisions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1045496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1045496", "title": "Patent Busting Project", "text": "Patent Busting Project\n\nThe Patent Busting Project is an Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) initiative challenging patents that the organization claims are illegitimate and suppress innovation or limit online expression. The initiative launched on April 19, 2004 and involves two phases: documenting the damage caused by these patents, and submitting challenges to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).\n\nThe EFF's basic assumption is that many such patents are invalid due to prior art which has historically been difficult to document in software and internet fields. (Many patent owners file patents to cover seemingly trivial concepts without any intention of enforcing the patents, but rather to use as part of a larger patent portfolio in their own defense against potential future patent lawsuits.)\n\nThe effort began with a \"patent busting contest\" where the public was encouraged to submit proposals of the worst offenders. Of these, EFF chose the top \"10 Most Wanted\" list of patents based on patent viability, whether the patent owners intend to enforce these patents, and how much of a threat they are to potential infringers.\n\nBy April 29, 2006, EFF had announced formal challenges to two of the listed patents: Test.com's patent on administering online tests, and Clear Channel's patent on recording and distributing CDs of live shows.\n\nOn October 23, 2007 The United States Patent and Trademark Office granted the EFF’s request for the reexamination of NeoMedia's patent #6,199,048. The Office also granted request for the reexamination of Hoshiko's (Ideaflood) patent #6,687,746 that covers the automation of subdomain registration.\n\nOn February 4, 2009, The United States Patent and Trademark Office upheld NeoMedia patent #6,199,048, although with limitations imposed upon the claimed material.\n\n\nEFF lists Acacia Research and Firepond's patents as having been made invalid, Ideaflood and Clear Channel's as \"busted\", NeoMedia and Seer Systems' have been \"narrowed\", Acceris, Test.com and Sheldon F. Goldberg's have \"Reexam granted\". Only Nintendo's patent of the original ten has no status update, but more are listed. \n\n"}
{"id": "14051053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14051053", "title": "Patent and Trademark Office Society", "text": "Patent and Trademark Office Society\n\nThe Patent and Trademark Office Society (PTOS) is an American society of intellectual property professionals. The society publishes a quarterly journal \"Journal of the Patent & Trademark Office Society\" (JPTOS).\n\nFounded in 1917, the PTOS is for patent and trademark professionals and other interested individuals, and it hosts activities in both the patent and trademark fields for the membership.\n\nThe PTOS is composed of five elected Executive Board members. Elections are held yearly and are performed in a remote fashion for the more than 4200 dues-paying members. Two elected members represent each technology center from within the USPTO, ten at-large representatives, two trademark representatives, and a representative from each of the PTAB, OPLA/OPQA, CFO/CIO/CAO/OPIM, and the Directors/OGC/International Affiars make up the remainder of the PTOS Board of Directors.\n\nThe society contains many committees including, Advisory Steering, Budget and Finance, Computer and Internet, Distribution, Education, Election, Federico Award, Historical Display, Insurance, International Relations, Journal of the PTOS, Kids in Chemistry, Legislative, Liaison, Membership, Public Relations, Rossman Award, Science Fair, Social, and Unofficial Gazette.\n\n"}
{"id": "8408448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8408448", "title": "Patent engineer", "text": "Patent engineer\n\nA patent engineer or patent scientist is a patent professional who is typically involved in preparing and prosecuting patent applications. The terms are usually applied to patent professionals with scientific or engineering backgrounds that do not require either attorney or patent agent qualifications, but still work with patent applications. In general, the position involves many of the technical aspects of patent prosecution, including doing background and prior art searches, drafting the specifications and preparing reference figures for patent applications, and giving technical expertise during invention evaluation. Positions of this nature may focus a great deal on research and development while including patent considerations, emphasizing their technical background rather than legal or patent agent qualification.\n\nPatent scientists and engineers often pursue either patent agent qualification and/or attend law school (this applies in the U.S. but not in Europe) to become patent attorneys.\n\n"}
{"id": "3497795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3497795", "title": "R v Latimer", "text": "R v Latimer\n\nR v Latimer, [2001] 1 SCR 3 was a decision by the Supreme Court of Canada in the controversial case of Robert Latimer, a Saskatchewan farmer convicted of murdering his disabled daughter Tracy Latimer. The case had sparked an intense national debate as to the ethics of what was claimed as a mercy killing. In its decision, the Supreme Court ruled that the crime could not be justified through the defence of necessity, and found that, despite the special circumstances of the case, the lengthy prison sentence given to Latimer was not cruel and unusual and therefore not a breach of section 12 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\". The Court also ruled that Latimer was not denied rights to jury nullification, as no such rights exist. The prison sentence was thus upheld, although the Court specifically noted that the federal government had the power to pardon him.\n\nThe Supreme Court described the background this way: Robert Latimer's daughter, Tracy Latimer, was 12 years old and had cerebral palsy. As a result, she was quadriplegic, could not speak, and had the mental abilities of an infant. However, she was not dying of her disability. It was also believed that a feeding tube could help her health, but her parents believed such a medical device would be \"intrusive\". Thus, numerous surgeries were performed, and after the scheduling of another surgery in 1993, her father, who viewed the upcoming operation as also being cruel, \"formed the view that his daughter's life was not worth living\". He proceeded to poison her with carbon monoxide. When the police made the discovery, Latimer denied responsibility but later admitted he had killed her. He was convicted of second degree murder, but in \"R v Latimer\", the Supreme Court overturned that finding due to the Crown's improper actions at the jury selection stage.\n\nIn the subsequent second trial, Latimer was again convicted of second degree murder, but he was sentenced to only one year in prison rather than the minimum ten under the \"Criminal Code\", since in the circumstances of the case, ten years was viewed as cruel and unusual. The Saskatchewan Court of Appeal later increased the sentence to ten years. Latimer eventually appealed the case to the Supreme Court, arguing not only that the sentence was too long, but also that the trial was unfair because the judge decided the defence of necessity could not be argued even though this decision came only after the defence had argued it. It was also claimed the judge had misled the jury into thinking that they could influence the length of the sentence. Since many in the jury wished for a lighter sentence than that prescribed by the \"Criminal Code\", it was argued the jury might have resorted to jury nullification had they known they could not decide the length of the sentence.\n\nThe decision upholding the ten-year sentence was unanimous and was written by The Court.\n\nThe Court first held that not only was the defence of necessity unable to justify Latimer's actions but also the inapplicability of the defence should have been so obvious that his lawyers should have anticipated its rejection, and therefore the fact that judge rejected it only after the defence was argued was not unfair. The Court first cited precedent that the defence of necessity is invoked only where \"true 'involuntariness' is present\". This involves being confronted with a serious danger, no other options but to commit a crime to avoid that danger, and \"proportionality between the harm inflicted and the harm avoided.\" While the Court acknowledged that the individual's subjective views in measuring approaching dangers and other options could be taken into account, along with an objective assessment (this was called a \"modified objective test\"), in this case the defence of necessity failed. First, the claimed danger being avoided, the surgery, threatened not Mr. Latimer but his daughter. Moreover, the Court wrote that \"ongoing pain did not constitute an emergency in this case\". The Court believed Mr. Latimer should have been able to understand this, especially since there were alternatives to surgery, such as the feeding tube. The Court went on to find that Latimer had other alternatives to killing his daughter, namely that \"he could have struggled on\", albeit \"with what was unquestionably a difficult situation\".\n\nThe Court also ruled that subjective views could not influence an assessment whether the crime is worse, equal or lesser than the threatened danger to the criminal, since \"fundamental principles of the criminal law\" would be sacrificed. In this case, the rights of the disabled, based in section 15 of the \"Charter\", were considered to be the important factor in considering how serious the crime was. The Court had difficulties in deciding whether any type of emergency could justify homicide, and at any rate found Tracy's death was worse than the pain Tracy might have felt during life.\n\nThe Court went on to reject the argument that the trial was unfair because the chances of jury nullification were impaired by the judge. As the Court argued, there is no right to a trial in which one's chances of jury nullification are not impaired. Indeed, the justice system is not supposed to advocate jury nullification. Moreover, the judge's apparent suggestion that the jury might have some influence in determining the sentence was not considered misleading or unfair because, while juries cannot decide sentences, they can indeed make recommendations.\n\nFinally, the Court rejected the argument that the minimum ten-year sentence might be so long as to be cruel and unusual and thus unconstitutional under section 12 of the \"Charter\". Since a section 12 test demands consideration of the seriousness of the crime, the Court pointed out that the crime led to the \"most serious of all possible consequences, namely, the death of the victim, Tracy Latimer\". Consideration of the \"mens rea\" of the offence therefore guided the Court to argue that even though Latimer had been convicted of second as opposed to first-degree murder, \"second degree murder is an offence accompanied by an extremely high degree of criminal culpability\".\n\nAt this point, the Court, in balancing other factors in the case, namely how Mr. Latimer had planned his crime and did not regret it, and conversely, how he was distressed over Tracy's condition and was otherwise respected, did not find that any of the positive factors outweighed the crime. Moreover, the punishment was also considered by the Court to be valid because it might discourage others from taking similar actions.\n"}
{"id": "6137020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6137020", "title": "Real party in interest", "text": "Real party in interest\n\nIn law, the real party in interest is the one who actually possesses the substantive right being asserted and has a legal right to enforce the claim (under applicable substantive law). Additionally, the \"real party in interest\" must sue in his own name. In many situations, the real party in interest will be the parties themselves (i.e., plaintiff and defendant). \n\nIn California law, when a case goes up on writ of mandate (California's version of \"mandamus\") the appellant goes first in the case caption on appeal as the petitioner, and the superior court becomes the respondent. The true opponent is then listed below those names as the \"real party in interest.\" This is how a number of famous California cases like \"Burnham v. Superior Court of California\" (1990) ended up with such unusual names. \n\nWhen a trustee is a party to a lawsuit, the real party in interest is the beneficiary of the trust. In the United States, Rule 17 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure expressly provides that trustees are the real party in interest when it is necessary to sue on behalf of the estate. A beneficiary may sue under these circumstances only when the trustee refuses or neglects to bring suit.\n\nWhen funds belonging to a party are held on account, but not necessarily in trust, by a financial institution (e.g., a bank checking account is garnished by a third party who claims a valid unpaid debt) the bank is typically sued as nominal defendant. Of course, the real party in interest is the owner of the account, who has an absolute right to intervene and protect his assets.\n\n"}
{"id": "22790348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22790348", "title": "Recorder of Lincoln", "text": "Recorder of Lincoln\n\nThe office of the Recorder of Lincoln is occupied by His Honour Judge John Pini, QC. Judge Pini was installed as honorary recorder on 1 December 2015. He is a circuit judge having been appointed as an Assistant Recorder and as a Recorder both in 2000.\n\nThe previous recorder was His Honour Judge Sean Morris He had held this position between 2010 and 2014. There have now been 21 recorders in Lincoln, Lincolnshire, the first incumbent being Lord Monson in 1768.\n"}
{"id": "54404447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54404447", "title": "Sentencia Arbitral de Guadalupe", "text": "Sentencia Arbitral de Guadalupe\n\nThe Sentencia Arbitral de Guadalupe (Arbitral Decision of Guadalupe) was a legal decree delivered by King Ferdinand II of Aragon at the Monastery of Santa María de Guadalupe in Extremadura, Spain on to free the Catalan remensa peasants who were subjects of the lord of the manor and tied to his lands and subject to numerous onerous fees and maltreatment under the so-called evil customs (\"mals usos\").\n\nThe objective of the decree was to solve the conflicts between the remensa peasants and their lords, conflicts that had motivated the two wars of the Remences. Negotiations for drafting the decree were very difficult. The king himself became directly involved and was an effective negotiator, at least in the economic sphere.\nFinally, King Ferdinand dictated the \"Sentencia Arbitral\" that allowed the end of the evil customs in exchange for a payment (not only for the \"mal ús\" remença), and postponed the conflict that had lasted more than four centuries between lords and peasants.\n\nIn exchange for a payment of 60 sous per farmstead, the right to mistreat peasants and many other minor statutory abuses were abolished. Peasants retained the usufruct of the farm, but had to pay homage to the lord and pay emphyteutic and feudal fees, albeit with irrational amounts, more to mark who was really in charge than for economic benefit. The upshot was that the abolition of the feudal system for which the peasants were fighting, was converted only into the possibility of freeing themselves from the evil customs, or \"malae consuetudines\", as people called it at that time.\n\nSigning on behalf of the peasants was Francesc de Verntallat along with 18 syndicates, including Llorenç Espígol of Sant Feliu de Pallerols.\n\nEven so, there was still repression: peasants were obliged to return all the castles that they had won from the lords, and pay 6,000 pounds compensation to the lords. While it is true that King Ferdinand freed some detainees, he also confiscated property or sterilized the land of others, or executed them.\n\nThe decree meant the beginning of a new phase for the Catalan camp: the right to freely contract emphyteutic agreements, which led to general prosperity in the Catalonian countryside. By the 15th century, Catalan peasants already had a level of personal freedom that the rest of the Iberian Peninsula and Europe was not to know before the 18th or 19th centuries.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1172288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172288", "title": "State aid (European Union)", "text": "State aid (European Union)\n\nState aid in the European Union is the name given to a subsidy provided by a government. Under European Union competition law the term has a legal meaning, being any measure that demonstrates any of the characteristics in Article 107 of Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in that if it distorts competition or the free market, it is classed by the European Union as being illegal state aid. Measures which fall within the definition of state aid are considered unlawful unless provided under an exemption or notified by the European Commission.\n\nState aid was formally introduced into European Union statute law by the Treaty of Rome where it classified state aid as being any state intervention that distorted competition law. The definition was later updated by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in 2007. It stated that any aid given to a company by a state within the EU would generally be incompatible with the EU's Common Market. Within the new law under the treaty, the first chapter of it defines what is not allowed to be done with state aid and the second chapter defines actions that can be done within legal limits.\n\"1. Save as otherwise provided in the Treaties, any aid granted by a Member State or through State resources in any form whatsoever which distorts or threatens to distort competition by favouring certain undertakings or the production of certain goods shall, in so far as it affects trade between Member States, be incompatible with the internal market.\"\n\nThe intent of this was that in order to avoid favouring a certain company or commercial group, an EU member state should not provide support by financial aid, lesser taxation rates or other ways to a party that does normal commercial business. For example, it would be considered illegal state aid by the EU if a government took over an unprofitable company with the sole intent to keep it running at a loss. However state aid can be approved by the European Commission in individual circumstances. but the aid reclaimed by the EU if it breaches the treaty.\n\nThere are specific exemptions to the treaty's provisions with regard to state aid. State aid can be given to parties involved in charity or \"to promote culture and heritage conservation\". The treaty also stated that aid given in response to natural disasters would be lawful. An exemption was given to allow Germany to provide aid providing the aid was used in relation to promoting development in former East German locations affected by the division of Germany after Germany's loss in the Second World War.\n\nIn 2008, the British government was granted permission from the European Commission to provide state aid to nationalise Lloyds TSB during the financial crisis of 2007–08. However, the Commission decreed that because Lloyds TSB's financial requirements had come about from their takeover of HBOS, in order for the state aid to be legal, they would have to sell part of their business. Lloyds Bank did this by splitting off TSB Bank as a separate company initially owned by them and sold it to Banco de Sabadell in order to stay within the EU's rules on state aid.\n\nIn 2016, following a 2-year investigation, the European Commission ruled that the Republic of Ireland had given tax rulings to Apple Inc that acted as a form of illegal State aid under EU competition law. Apple has been using a customized variation of the \"double Irish\" tax avoidance system (used by many US multinationals in Ireland). The rulings from the Irish Revenue Commissioners, which enabled the customization, were deemed to be unfair State aid. The Commission stated that as a result, Apple would have to pay €13 billion in Irish taxes (2004-2014), plus interest penalties, to the Irish government. The Irish cabinet stated they would challenge the Commission's finding of state aid and would appeal against the ruling. \n\nIn September 2016 Opposition leader Jeremy Corbyn urged the government to abandon exiting EU rules on state aid, post brexit. He said “Any deal with the EU must recognise that the old state aid rules are no longer valid.” In May 2018 The European Union said that could not allow the UK to remain in the single market and customs union after brexit and abandon the rules on state aid , and that the European Union would respond with tarrifs, in the event UK industries had government subsidies.\n\nThe current government has not mentioned any changes to the EU rules on state aid after the United Kingdom leaves the EU. However the current Chequers proposal by Prime Minister, Theresa May, suggests that the UK will keep the state aid rules after it leaves, as the UK would adopt all current EU laws on Goods and their manufacture. However the proposal is yet to be approved by both UK houses and the EU negotiating team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "513332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513332", "title": "Stenotype", "text": "Stenotype\n\nA stenotype, stenotype machine, shorthand machine or steno writer is a specialized chorded keyboard or typewriter used by stenographers for shorthand use. In order to pass the United States Registered Professional Reporter test, a trained court reporter or closed captioner must write speeds of approximately 180, 200, and 225 words per minute (wpm) at very high accuracy in the categories of literary, jury charge, and testimony, respectively. Some stenographers can reach 300 words per minute. The website of the California Official Court Reporters Association gives the official record for American English as 375 wpm.\nThe stenotype keyboard has far fewer keys than a conventional alphanumeric keyboard. Multiple keys are pressed simultaneously (known as \"chording\" or \"stroking\") to spell out whole syllables, words, and phrases with a single hand motion. This system makes real-time transcription practical for court reporting and live closed captioning. Because the keyboard does not contain all the letters of the English alphabet, letter combinations are substituted for the missing letters. There are several schools of thought on how to record various sounds, such as the StenEd, Phoenix, and Magnum Steno theories.\n\nThe first shorthand machine (the word \"stenotype\" was not used for another 80 years or more) punched a paper strip and was built in 1830 by Karl Drais, a German inventor. The first machine was made in 1863 by the Italian Antonio Zucco and was in actual use since 1880 in the Italian Senate. An American shorthand machine was patented in 1879 by Miles M. Bartholomew. A French version was created by Marc Grandjean in 1909. The direct ancestor of today's stenotype was created by Ward Stone Ireland about 1913, and the word \"stenotype\" was applied to his machine and its descendants sometime thereafter.\n\nMost modern stenotype keyboards have more in common with computers than they do with typewriters or QWERTY computer keyboards. Most contain microprocessors, and many allow sensitivity adjustments for each individual key. They translate stenotype to English internally using user-specific dictionaries, and most have small display screens. They typically store a full day's work in non-volatile memory of some type, such as an SD Card. These factors influence the price, along with economies of scale, as only a few thousand stenotype keyboards are sold each year. , student models, such as a Wave writer, sell for about US$1,500 and top-end models sell for approximately US$5,000. Machines that are 10 to 15 years old still resell for upwards of $350.\n\nThe Open Steno Project has written free open-source software, including Plover, and has developed cheap open-source hardware for stenography. Plover software translates keypresses to Stenotype on any modern keyboard, with a preference given to ortholinear keyboards that have NKRO functionality. \n\nStenograph is by far the largest manufacturer of American stenotype keyboards with an estimated marketshare in excess of 90%. Their top models are the Luminex professional writer and the Wave student writer. The Stentura paper-based writers and the paperless élan writers preceded the current models. There were two other large manufacturers in the 1980s (Xscribe, with the StenoRAM line and BaronData with the Transcriptor line). Stenograph purchased both companies and discontinued their products. The current manufacturers in the U.S. include:\n\nStenotype keys normally are made of a hard, high-luster acrylic material with no markings. The keyboard layout of the American stenotype machine is shown at the right.\n\nIn \"home position\", the fingers of the left hand rest along the gap between the two main rows of keys to the left of the asterisk (little finger on the \"S\" to forefinger on the \"H\" and \"R\"). These fingers are used to generate initial consonants. The fingers of the right hand lie in the corresponding position to the right of the asterisk (forefinger on \"FR\" to little finger on \"TS\"), and are used for final consonants. The thumbs produce the vowels.\n\nThe system is roughly phonetic; for example the word \"cat\" would be written by a single stroke expressing the initial K, the vowel A, and the final T.\n\nTo enter a number, a user presses the number bar at the top of the keyboard at the same time as the other keys, much like the Shift key on a QWERTY-based keyboard. The illustration shows which lettered keys correspond to which digits. Numbers can be chorded just like letters can. They read from left to right across the keyboard. It is possible to write 137 in one stroke by pressing the number bar along with SP P, but it takes three separate strokes to write 731. Many court reporters and stenocaptioners write out numbers phonetically instead of using the number bar.\n\nThere are various ways to combine letters to make different sounds; different court reporters use different theories in their work. Historically, reporters often created \"briefs\" (abbreviations) on-the-fly, and sometimes mixed theories, which could make it difficult for one reporter to read another reporter's notes; but current versions of theories are primarily designed for computerized translation using a standardized dictionary provided by the company that promulgates the theory, which forces reporters to stick with one theory and use only the specific combinations in that company's dictionary. However, it is not uncommon for students and reporters to add a significant number of entries to a stock dictionary (usually when creating briefs of their own).\n\nSome court reporters use \"scopists\" to translate and edit their work. A scopist is a person who is trained in the phonetic writing system, English punctuation, and usually in legal formatting. They are especially helpful when a court reporter is working so much that he or she does not have time to edit his/her own work. Both scopists and proofreaders work closely with the court reporter to ensure an accurate transcript. The widespread use of realtime translation of the strokes has increased the demand for scopists to work simultaneously with the court reporter. With transcripts produced on computer-aided transcription (CAT) software, a scopist no longer needs to have any knowledge of shorthand theories, because the software converts shorthand to text in real time via a dictionary. However, it may still be helpful in some situations while scoping, as misstroked words may not translate and would appear in steno. Depending on availability of scopists and proofreaders, court reporters may use a scopist only to clean up a rough draft of their transcript, then proofread and certify the transcript themselves, or they may use neither and produce a final transcript by themselves, though this is a very time-consuming practice.\n\nSteno paper has become almost obsolete with the advancement in paperless stenotype machines. When it is used, steno paper comes out of a stenotype machine at the rate of one row per chord, with the pressed letters printed out in 22 columns corresponding to the 22 keys, in the following order:\n\nThis is a basic chart of the letters of this machine. There are, however, different writing theories that represent some letters or sounds differently (e.g., the *F for final \"v\" in the chart below), and each court reporter develops personalized \"briefs\" and alternate ways of writing things.\n\nThe following example shows how steno paper coming out of the machine represents an English sentence. Notice that key combinations can have different meanings depending on context. In the first stroke of the word \"example\", the PL combination refers to \"m\". In the second stroke of the word, that same key combination refers to the two letters \"pl\".\n\nNote also that many words have been abbreviated: \"this\", \"of\" and \"from\" are chorded as \"th\", \"f\" and \"fr\", and \"machine\" and \"shorthand\" become \"mn\" and \"shand\" respectively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30419271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30419271", "title": "Swinton Boult", "text": "Swinton Boult\n\nSwinton Boult (1809–1876), was a secretary and director of the \"Liverpool, London, and Globe Insurance Company\".\n\nBoult commenced his life in Liverpool as local agent for insurance offices. In 1836 he founded the \"Liverpool Fire Office\", which, after struggling with many difficulties, became, through Boult's energy, the largest fire insurance office in the world. After the great fire at the Liverpool docklands in 1842, Boult offered to the merchants of Liverpool opportunities of insuring their merchandise against fire in the various parts of the world where it was lying awaiting transshipment. Agencies, which proved very successful, were gradually opened in various parts of America and Canada, in the Baltic, in the Mediterranean, and afterwards in the East generally, and in Australia. About 1848 the company, on account of the number of its London clients, became known as the \"Liverpool and London\"; in 1864, on absorbing the business of the \"Globe Insurance Company\" and under the authority of parliament, the title of \"Liverpool, London, and Globe\" was assumed. At its height, the company operated throughout the Commonwealth and the United States. In 1919, it was acquired by \"Royal Insurance\".\n\nBoult was the principal means of introducing tariff rating as applied to cotton mills, whereby real improvements in construction are taken into account in determining the premiums; he originated the \"Liverpool Salvage Committee\", did much to secure the passing of the \"Liverpool Fire Prevention Act\", and devised a uniform policy for the tariff fire offices. He made a circuit of the globe in order to render himself familiar with the real nature of the fire risks which his company, in common with other fire offices, was called upon to accept; became managing director of his company, and gave evidence before various parliamentary committees on points affecting the practice of fire insurance, especially before that on fire protection which sat in 1867. He died in 1876, aged 67.\n"}
{"id": "2467752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2467752", "title": "Taghairm", "text": "Taghairm\n\nTaghairm, sometimes interpreted as \"spiritual echo,\" or calling up the dead, was an ancient Scottish mode of divination. The definition of what was required varied, but involved torture or cruelty to animals or humans and sometimes included animal sacrifice.\n\nThe Scottish writer Màrtainn MacGille Mhàrtainn describes three different ways of consulting spirits common in the Scottish Hebrides in the 17th century. All involved acts which were supposed to summon spirits or demons in the form of animals which would answer questions concerning the future.\n\nIn one version of the taghairm said to be one of the most effective means of raising the devil, and getting unlawful wishes gratified, the ritual included roasting cats alive, one after the other, for several days without tasting food. This supposedly summoned a legion of devils in the guise of black cats, with their master at their head, all screeching in a terrifying way.\n\nScottish historical novelist Sir Walter Scott scornfully described the last method in a footnote to his influential poem \"Lady of the Lake\". He further adds that it could involve another situation \"where the scenery around him suggested nothing but objects of horror.\" However, Scott could not speak Scottish Gaelic and his concepts of Gaelic culture were sometimes distorted.\n\nOther variations practiced have been recorded, and the same name has also been applied to other ritual customs. One variation of the ritual was said to summon a demonic cat called Big Ears, who would grant the summoners answers to their questions and fulfill their wishes. The last ceremony of this kind is said to have been performed on the island of Mull in the beginning of the seventeenth century, and was recorded in the London \"Literary Gazette\" of March 1824.\n"}
{"id": "10688611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10688611", "title": "Teind", "text": "Teind\n\nIn Scotland a teind was a tithe derived from the produce of the land for the maintenance of the clergy.\n\nIt is also an old lowland term for a tribute due to be paid by the fairies to the devil every seven years. It is known for the devil to give bad luck in the world and the fary to be wiser and grant good luck and a just future. Found in the story of Tam Lin as well as in the ballad of Thomas the Rhymer.\n\nTeind is a Scots word for tithe, meaning a tenth part.\n\n"}
{"id": "4168474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4168474", "title": "Unemployment Indemnity (Shipwreck) Convention, 1920", "text": "Unemployment Indemnity (Shipwreck) Convention, 1920\n\nUnemployment Indemnity (Shipwreck) Convention, 1920 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1920:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the \"supervision of articles of agreement; provision of facilities for finding employment for seamen; application to seamen of the Convention and Recommendations adopted at Washington in November last in regard to unemployment and unemployment insurance\"...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 60 states. Of the ratifying states, 17 have subsequently denounced the treaty.\n\n"}
{"id": "395145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=395145", "title": "Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca", "text": "Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca\n\nÁlvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca (; Jerez de la Frontera, 1488/1490/1492Seville, 1557/1558/1559/1560) was a Spanish explorer of the New World, and one of four survivors of the 1527 Narváez expedition. During eight years of traveling across the US Southwest, he became a trader and faith healer to various Native American tribes before reconnecting with Spanish civilization in Mexico in 1536. After returning to Spain in 1537, he wrote an account, first published in 1542 as \"La relación y comentarios\" (\"The Account and Commentaries\"), which in later editions was retitled \"Naufragios\" (\"Shipwrecks\"). Cabeza de Vaca is sometimes considered a proto-anthropologist for his detailed accounts of the many tribes of Native Americans that he encountered.\n\nIn 1540, Cabeza de Vaca was appointed \"adelantado\" of what is now Argentina, where he was governor and captain general of New Andalusia. He worked to build up the population of Buenos Aires, where settlement had declined due to poor administration. Cabeza de Vaca was transported to Spain for trial in 1545. Although his sentence was eventually commuted, he never returned to the Americas. He died in Seville.\n\nÁlvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca was born around 1490 into a hidalgo family, the son of Francisco Núñez de Vera and Teresa Cabeza de Vaca y de Zurita, in the town of Jerez de la Frontera, Cádiz, Spain. Despite the family's status as minor nobility, they possessed modest economic resources. In 16th-century documents, his name appears as \"Alvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca\".\nÁlvar Núñez's maternal surname, Cabeza de Vaca (meaning “head of cow”) was said to be associated with a maternal ancestor, Martín Alhaja. He had shown the Spanish king a secret mountain pass, marked by a cow’s skull, enabling the king to win the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa against the Muslim Moors in 1212.\n\nSome sources indicate that after his parents died when he was young, the boy Álvar was taken in by relatives (most likely his aunt and uncle or his paternal grandfather, Pedro de Vera). Evidence suggests that he probably had a moderately comfortable early life. He was appointed chamberlain for the house of a noble family in his teen years then participated in the conquest of the Canary Islands where he was appointed a governor. In 1511, he enlisted in the Spanish army, serving in Italy (with distinction), Spain and Navarre. He received several medals of honor and became more of a political figure in Spain. In 1527, Núñez joined the Florida expedition of conquistador Pánfilo de Narváez during which he served as treasurer and marshal.\n\nIn 1527, Pánfilo de Narváez was sent by Spain’s King Charles V to explore the unknown territory which the Spanish called La Florida, including not only present-day Florida but a large, poorly-defined section of what today is the southeastern United States. Cabeza de Vaca was attached to this expedition as the expedition’s treasurer. Records indicate that he also had a military role as one of the chief officers on the Narváez expedition, noted as sheriff or marshal. On June 17, 1527, the fleet of five ships set sail towards the province of Pánuco (which was on the western border of Florida). When they stopped in Hispaniola for supplies, Narváez lost approximately 150 of his men, who chose to stay on the island rather than continue with the expedition.\n\nThe expedition continued to Cuba, where Cabeza de Vaca took two ships to recruit more men and buy supplies. Their fleet was battered by a hurricane, resulting in the destruction of both ships and loss of most of Cabeza de Vaca’s men. Narváez arrived days later to pick up the survivors. By February 1528, the remaining ships and men resumed their expedition, reaching Florida in April. They anchored near what is now known as the Jungle Prada Site in St. Petersburg, claiming this land as a possession of the Spanish crown.\n\nAfter communicating with the Native Americans, the Spanish heard rumours that a city named Apalachen was full of food and gold. Against the advice of Cabeza de Vaca, Narváez decided to split up his men. Some 300 were to go on foot to Apalachen and the other would sail to Pánuco. Apalachen had no gold but had only corn, but the explorers were told a village known as Aute, about 5 or 9 days away, was rich. They pushed on through the swamps, harassed by the Native Americans. A few Spanish men were killed and more wounded. When they arrived in Aute, they found that the inhabitants had burned down the village and left. But the fields had not been harvested, so at least the Spanish scavenged food there. After several months of fighting native inhabitants through wilderness and swamp, the party decided to abandon the interior and try to reach Pánuco.\n\nSlaughtering and eating their remaining horses, they gathered the stirrups, spurs, horseshoes and other metal items. They fashioned a bellows from deer hide to make a fire hot enough to forge tools and nails. They used these in making five primitive boats to use to get to Mexico. Cabeza de Vaca commanded one of these vessels, each of which held 50 men. Depleted of food and water, the men followed the coast westward. But when they reached the mouth of the Mississippi River, the powerful current swept them out into the Gulf, where the five rafts were separated by a hurricane. Some lives were lost forever, including that of Narváez.\n\nTwo crafts with about 40 survivors each, including Cabeza de Vaca, wrecked on or near Galveston Island (now part of Texas). Out of the 80 or so survivors, only 15 lived past that winter. The explorers called the island Malhado (“Ill fate” in Spanish), or the Island of Doom. They tried to repair the rafts, using what remained of their own clothes as oakum to plug holes, but they lost the rafts to a large wave.\n\nAs the number of survivors dwindled rapidly, they were enslaved for a few years by various American Indian tribes of the upper Gulf Coast. Because Cabeza de Vaca survived and prospered from time to time, some scholars argue that he was not enslaved but using a figure of speech. He and other noblemen were accustomed to better living. Their encounters with harsh conditions and weather, and being required to work like native women, must have seemed like slavery. The tribes to which Cabeza de Vaca was enslaved included the Hans and the Capoques, and tribes later called the Karankawa and Coahuiltecan. After escaping, only four men, Cabeza de Vaca, Andrés Dorantes de Carranza, Alonso del Castillo Maldonado, and an enslaved Moroccan Berber named Esteban (later called Estevanico), survived to reach Mexico City.\n\nTraveling mostly with this small group, Cabeza de Vaca explored what is now the U.S. state of Texas, as well as the northeastern Mexican states of Tamaulipas, Nuevo León and Coahuila, and possibly smaller portions of New Mexico and Arizona. He traveled on foot through the then-colonized territories of Texas and the coast. He continued through Coahuila and Nueva Vizcaya; then down the Gulf of California coast to what is now Sinaloa, Mexico, over a period of roughly eight years. Throughout those years, Cabeza de Vaca and the other men adapted to the lives of the indigenous people they stayed with, whom he later described as Roots People, the Fish and Blackberry People, or the Fig People, depending on their principal foods.\n\nDuring his wanderings, passing from tribe to tribe, Cabeza de Vaca later reported that he developed sympathies for the indigenous peoples. He became a trader and a healer, which gave him some freedom to travel among the tribes. As a healer, Cabeza de Vaca used blowing (like the Native Americans) to heal, but claimed that God and the Christian cross led to his success. His healing of the sick gained him a reputation as a faith healer. His group attracted numerous native followers, who regarded them as \"children of the sun\", endowed with the power to heal and destroy. As Cabeza de Vaca grew healthier, he decided that he would make his way to Pánuco, supporting himself through trading. He finally decided to try to reach the Spanish colony in Mexico. Many natives were said to accompany the explorers on their journey across what is now known as the American Southwest and northern Mexico.\n\nAfter finally reaching the colonized lands of New Spain, where he first encountered fellow Spaniards near modern-day Culiacán, Cabeza de Vaca and the three other men reached Mexico City. From there he sailed back to Europe in 1537.\n\nNumerous researchers have tried to trace his route across the Southwest. As he did not begin writing his chronicle until back in Spain, he had to rely on memory. He did not have the instruments (clock and astrolabe) to determine his location; he had to rely on dead reckoning, and was uncertain of his route. Aware that his recollection has numerous errors in chronology and geography, historians have worked to put together pieces of the puzzle to discern his paths.\n\nIn 1540, Cabeza de Vaca was appointed \"adelantado\" of the Río de la Plata in South America. The colony comprised parts of what is now Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay. Cabeza de Vaca was assigned to find a usable route from this colony to the colony in Peru, on the other side of the Andes Mountains on the Pacific Coast.\nEn route, he disembarked from his fleet at Santa Catarina Island in modern Brazil. With an indigenous force, plus 250 musketeers and 26 horses, he followed native trails discovered by Aleixo Garcia overland to the district's Spanish capital, Asunción, far inland on the great Paraguay River. Cabeza de Vaca is thought to have been the first European to see the Iguaçu Falls.\n\nIn March 1542 Cabeza de Vaca met with Domingo Martínez de Irala and relieved him of his position as governor. The government of Asunción pledged loyalty to Cabeza de Vaca, and Irala was assigned to explore a possible route to Peru. Once Irala returned and reported, Cabeza de Vaca planned his own expedition. He hoped to reach Los Reyes (a base that Irala set up) and push forward into the jungle in search of a route to the gold and silver mines of Peru. The expedition did not go well, and Cabeza de Vaca returned to Asunción.\n\nDuring his absence, Irala had stirred up resistance to Cabeza de Vaca’s rule and capitalized on political rivalries. Scholars widely agree that Cabeza de Vaca had an unusually sympathetic attitude towards the Native Americans for his time. The elite settlers in modern Argentina, known as \"encomenderos\", generally did not agree with his enlightened conduct toward the Natives; they wanted to use them for labor. Because he lost elite support, and Buenos Aires was failing as a settlement, not attracting enough residents, Martínez de Irala arrested Cabeza de Vaca in 1544 for poor administration. The former explorer was returned to Spain in 1545 for trial.\n\nAlthough eventually exonerated, Cabeza de Vaca never returned to South America. He wrote an extensive report on the Río de la Plata colony in South America, strongly criticizing the conduct of Martínez de Irala. The report was bound with his earlier \"La Relación\" and published under the title \"Comentarios\" (Commentary). He died poor in Seville around the year 1560.\n\n\"La relación of Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca\" is the account of his experiences with the Narvaez expedition and after being wrecked on Galveston Island in November 1528. Cabeza de Vaca and his last three men struggled to survive. They wandered along the Texas coast as prisoners of the Han and Capoque American Indians for two years, while Cabeza de Vaca observed the people, picking up their ways of life and customs. They traveled through the American Southwest and ultimately reached Mexico City, nearly eight years after being wrecked on the island.\n\nIn 1537, Cabeza de Vaca returned to Spain, where he wrote his narratives of the Narvaez expedition. These narratives were collected and published in 1542 in Spain. They are now known as \"The Relation of Álvar Núñez Cabeza de Vaca.\" The narrative of Cabeza de Vaca is the “first European book devoted completely to North America.” His detailed account describes the lives of numerous tribes of American Indians of the time. Cabeza de Vaca showed compassion and respect for native peoples, which, together with the great detail he recorded, distinguishes his narrative from others of the period.\n\nCabeza de Vaca reported on the customs and ways of American Indian life, aware of his status as an early European explorer. He spent eight years with various peoples, including the Capoque, Han, Avavare, and Arbadao. He describes details of the culture of the Malhado people, the Capoque, and Han American Indians, such as their treatment of offspring, their wedding rites, and their main sources of food. Cabeza de Vaca and his three fellow survivors at times served as slaves to the American Indians to survive. Through his observations, Cabeza de Vaca provides insights into 16th-century American Indian life near the present-day Mexico-Texas border.\n\nFor many peoples the accounts of Cabeza de Vaca and Hernando de Soto are the only written records of their existence. By the time of the next European contact, many had vanished, presumably from the diseases Cabeza de Vaca and his companions unknowingly exposed them to.\n\nOne of Cabeza de Vaca's greatest achievements of his journey, was that he played an important role as an ambassador to bring peace throughout the land. As the party of travellers passed from one tribe to the next, warring tribes would immediately make peace and become friendly, so that the natives could receive the party and give them gifts. Cabeza notes in his personal account of his journey that in this way; \"We left the whole country in peace.\" Cabeza saw these events as part of his mission and purpose in America, acknowledging in his account that he believed that: \"God was guiding us to where we could serve Him.\".\n\nCabeza's greatest challenge as an ambassador came when he attempted to bring peace between the conquering Spanish army and the natives. As Cabeza approached Spanish settlement, he and his companions were very grieved to see the destruction of the native villages and enslavement of the natives. The fertile land lay uncultivated and the natives were nearly starving, hiding in the forest, for fear of the Spanish army.\n\nCabeza then encountered Diego de Alcaraz, commander of a slavery expedition of about 20 horsemen and attempted to negotiate peace between them and the natives. However, as soon as they departed, Diego went back on his word and plundered Cabeza's entourage of natives that he had sent back home. Not long after this, Cabeza encountered the chief Alcalde (Spanish captain of the province) named Melchor Diaz. Melchor Diaz ordered Cabeza to bring the natives back from the forests so that they would re-cultivate the land. Cabeza and Melchor invited the natives to convert to Christianity and the natives did so willingly. Cabeza instructed them to build a large wooden cross in each village, which would cause members of the Spanish army to pass through the village and not attack it. Soon afterward the Diego de Alcaraz expedition returned and explained to Melchor that they were shocked at how, on their return journey, not only did they find the land repopulated, but the natives coming to greet them with crosses in hand and also gave them provisions. Melchor then ordered Diego that no harm be done to them.\n\nCabeza de Vaca wrote this narrative to Charles V to “transmit what I saw and heard in the nine years I wandered lost and miserable over many remote lands”. He wanted to convey “not merely a report of positions and distances, flora and fauna, but of the customs of the numerous indigenous people I talked with and dwelt among, as well as any other matters I could hear of or observe”. He took care to present facts, as a full account of what he observed. \"The Relation\" is the only account of many details concerning the indigenous people whom he encountered. The accuracy of his account has been validated by later reports of others, as well as by the oral traditions of descendants of some of the tribes.\n\nCabeza’s account also served as a petition to the King of Spain to both establish a permanent Christian mission and eventually establish the native tribes as a nation under the governance of Spain. In his reflection Cabeza writes to the king of Spain:\n\n\"May God in His infinite mercy grant that in the days of Your Majesty and under your power and sway, these people become willingly and sincerely subjects of the true Lord Who created and redeemed them. We believe they will be, and that Your Majesty is destined to bring it about, as it will not be at all difficult.\"\n\nCabeza continued to be a strong advocate for the rights of Native American Indians throughout his lifetime.\n\nCabeza De Vaca identified the following peoples by name in his \"La Relacion\" (1542). The following list shows his names, together with what scholars suggested in 1919 were the likely tribes identified by names used in the 20th century. By that time, tribal identification was also related to more linguistic data.\n\nPossible \"Karankawan\" groups:\n\nRelated to Karankawa:\n\nPossible \"Tonkawan\" groups:\n\nPossible \"Coahuiltecan\" or desert groups:\n\nIn 1555, after a four-year position as Adelantado in Rio de la Plata, Cabeza de Vaca wrote from memory a chronicle of the Narvaez expedition in South America. It is believed that his secretary at the time, Pero Hernández, transcribed Cabeza de Vaca's account in what is known as \"Comentarios\". The publication of \"Comentarios\" was appended to \"La relación\" as a joint publication in Valladolid, Spain entitled: \"Naufragios.\" At that time, explorers often published their reports of travels in foreign lands.\n\nIn 1906, \"Naufragios\" was published in a new edition in Madrid, Spain. The introduction says the intent of this edition was to publicize Cabeza de Vaca's observations and experiences to strengthen authentic representations. This has been described as having the objective of portraying Cabeza de Vaca as less aggressive , while trying to authenticate his role as a sympathetic observer of the natives.\n\nHerrera (2011) classifies Cabeza de Vaca’s \"La Relacion\" as the first major contribution to Chicano literature. Scholars have identified five major periods of Chicano literature: Spanish Mexican, Mexican American, Annexation, Chicano Renaissance, and Modern. Cabeza de Vaca is classified as part of the Spanish Mexican period; he recounted eight years of travel and survival in the area of Chicano culture: present-day Texas, New Mexico, and northern Mexico. His account is the first known written description of the American Southwest.\n\n\nLaila Lalami's novel, \"The Moor's Account\" (2014), is a fictional memoir of Estevanico, the Moroccan slave who survived the journey and accompanied Cabeza de Vaca through the Southwest. He is considered to be the first black explorer of North America. Lalami claims that the chronicle gives him one sentence: \"The fourth [survivor] is Estevanico, an Arab Negro from Azamor.\" However, there are several others referenced to him in the account.\n\nLord Buckley created a monologue \"The Gasser\" based on Haniel Long's novella. This was first recorded in 1954 and again in 1959.\n\nHis story is noted in the first episode of Ken Burns' \"The West\", a PBS documentary which first aired in 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"La Relación\" online\n\nResources\n\nArticles\n\nAudio-visual\n"}
