{"id": "8725021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8725021", "title": "Aarthi Agarwal", "text": "Aarthi Agarwal\n\nAarthi Agarwal (March 5, 1984 – June 6, 2015) was an Indian-American actress who primarily worked in Telugu cinema, also known as Tollywood. She is the older sister of Aditi Agarwal, also an actress.\n\nAgarwal was born on March 5, 1984 in New Jersey to Gujarati parents. Her father, Shashank, is in the hotel business and her mother, Veema, is a homemaker. She has two siblings. At around 14 years of age, actor Sunil Shetty spotted her and invited her to dance on stage in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. After the performance, he asked her father to encourage her to take up acting in Bollywood. At age 16, she made her debut with \"Paagalpan\".\n\nAgarwal made her Telugu film debut in \"Nuvvu Naaku Nachav\" with actor Venkatesh. She was one of the few non-Telugu speaking actresses to work with noted Indian film stars Chiranjeevi, Nandamuri Balakrishna, Akkineni Nagarjuna, Prabhas, Mahesh Babu, Ravi Teja, and Jr NTR.\n\nIn 2005, \"The Hindu\" reported that Agarwal had attempted suicide after she was hospitalized with internal head injuries at Apollo Hospital, Jubilee Hills, Hyderabad and put on ventilator support.\n\nIn 2007, Agarwal married Tasval Kumar, a U.S.-based Indian software engineer; the couple divorced in 2009.\n\nOn June 6, 2015, Agarwal was pronounced dead on arrival at AtlantiCare Regional Medical Center in Atlantic City, New Jersey. Agarwal, who had undergone a liposuction surgery six weeks prior, had severe breathing problems before her death. Her manager stated the cause of her death was cardiac arrest. She had been living with her parents in Egg Harbor Township.\n"}
{"id": "34689857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34689857", "title": "Abdulfattah Owainat", "text": "Abdulfattah Owainat\n\nAbdulfattah Owainat (; born in Kuwait City, Kuwait as Abdul Fattah Abdullah Mohammad Owainat in March 1972) is a Palestinian singer and songwriter best known for his songs on Palestinian Human Rights and their Right of Return as well as various recent uprisings in the Arab World.\n\nAbdulfattah Owainat, sometimes Abed el Fattah studied Islamic Law and Principles in Zarqa Private University, Jordan. He debuted on the professional music scene at an early age, as one of the founders and original members of \"Al-Rawabi\" band (in Arabic فرقة الروابي meaning the Hills), and began a solo career in 1987 while still an active member of the band as a vocalist, lyricist, musical composer and (formerly) artistic director.\n\nHe worked in several media productions companies including Al-Amal for Media Services (in Arabic الأمل meaning Hope), Taif for Media Productions, and currently working as part of New Sound for Media Productions team as a production manager and supervisor.\n\nHe has participated in many concerts around the world including the Arab World (Kuwait, KSA, Bahrain, UAE, Qatar, Lebanon, Egypt, Sudan, Yemen, Algeria) as well as Turkey, Sweden, Italy, United Kingdom, Russia, Ukraine, France, Switzerland, Germany, and Canada and is considered one of the well-known artists especially in the Arab World. He also took part in the collaborative song \"Hayat lil Alam\"(Life for the World) alongside a number of well-known Singers from the Middle East & Gulf Area.\n\nHe was also a presenter on a program dedicated to other Muslim Artists and the Muslim Media on Al-Resalah Satellite TV.\n\n\nKuwait-born Abdul Fattah Owainat is originally from Qalqilya in the city of Tulkarm, Palestine. He is married and has 4 children and currently resides in Amman, Jordan\n\nHe made many recording with \"Al-Rawabi\" band including:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51192992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51192992", "title": "Alberto Youssef", "text": "Alberto Youssef\n\nAlberto Youssef (born Londrina, Brazil, 6 October 1967) is a Brazilian black-market banker. He has been implicated in several of Brazil's largest scandals during the past generation. He was a figure in the Banestado scandal, and later was a major target of Operation Car Wash, the official investigation of corruption surrounding Petrobras, the government-controlled oil company.\n\n\"Bloomberg\" described Youssef in January 2015 as “Brazil’s black-market central banker, a career criminal who smuggled cash for the rich and powerful”. In August 2015, \"The New York Times\" called him “a convicted money launderer and former bon vivant.”\n\nYoussef was arrested in March 2014 for violating the terms of a plea-bargaining agreement. He is currently incarcerated.\n\nYoussef is the son of Kalim Youssef, a Lebanese immigrant, and Antoinette Youssef, a Brazilian. He grew up in very modest circumstances in Londrina, a town in the state of Paraná.\n\nWhen he was a boy, he sold snacks in the streets of Londrina. During his teenage years, after earning a pilot's license, he began smuggling costly electronic items and other merchandise into Brazil from Paraguay, where taxes were far lower, and selling them on. His older sister worked with him on this smuggling operation, which first put Youssef on the government's radar, in the 1980s. Also during his teens, he helped his mother sell food at a shop at the local airport.\n\nIt was at the airport that he met José Janene, a businessman and pilot who would later become a member of Congress and helped Youssef with his career.\n\nBy the early 1990s, Youssef had left smuggling behind and gone into the business of money laundering. Soon he was considered one of the top \"doleiros\", or black-market currency changers, in Brazil. According to Bloomberg, Youssef began driving an armored car to deliver cash amounts daily.\n\nYoussef was arrested both in 2000, and again in 2001, because of a corrupt operation that was based in Londrina and that involved the bribery of bank employees who in return cashed municipal checks, including unsigned checks. He was never put on trial, however, and spent less than a month behind bars.\n\nYoussef was also involved with a case of embezzlement in Maringá, a town near Londrina around the same time as his other arrests. Indicted on charges of criminal conspiracy, he escaped punishment by fingering local government officials who had been involved in the scandal.\n\nYoussef was then charged with money laundering in the Banestado scandal. Banestado was a state-run bank that had been used by many wealthy persons to launder money and thus avoid high Brazilian taxes. Youssef was in charge of the money laundering, and was said to have laundered more than $830 million.\n\nOnce again, Youssef plea-bargained, turning in other doleiros, whose conviction and imprisonment only enhanced Youssef's standing in his profession.\n\nIn yet another investigation, Youssef got off by telling prosecutors about the manipulation of tax credits at a government power utility.\n\nIn 2006, Janene was indicted in a scandal involving members of congress who sold their votes. Prosecutors later determined that some of the money generated by this scheme was laundered by Youssef through a Brasilia gas station. After Janene's death in 2010, Youssef took control of Janene's network of corruption in both Brasilia and Petrobras.\n\nYoussef has been called a \"principal player\" in the largest scandal in Brazilian history. It involves money laundering and other corrupt activities at the government-owned oil company, Petrobras, executives of which accepted bribes in return for overpaying construction firms doing work for the firm. Youssef became part of the operation in late 2006 at the invitation of Janene; it was his job to collect the bribes from the contractors.\n\nThe scandal has been under investigation since March 2014. The investigators' big break came with the discovery of an e-mail by Youssef in which he discussed a Range Rover bought for Paulo Roberto Costa, who had been Petrobras's supplies director from 2004 to 2012. As he had in many other scandals, Youssef agreed to turn state’s evidence. When he handed his lawyers a piece of paper on which he had written the names of the participants in the Petrobras operation, Reinaldet asked, “Are you serious?” Reinaldet later told the \"Times\", \"It was kind of like, in Brazil, we know that corruption is a monster. But we never really see the monster. This was like seeing the monster.\"\n\nYoussef told prosecutors that President Dilma Rousseff, who had served as chairwoman of Petrobras from 2003 through 2010, was aware of the kickback scheme. One investigator said that Youssef's revelations made it clear “we had a case that was 100 times bigger” than they had originally imagined.\n\nBecause of his agreement with prosecutors, Youssef, who would ordinally have received a prison sentence of over 8 years, will instead serve only three years for his involvement in Petrobras.\n\nYoussef was arrested in March 2014, and in September he was sentenced to four years and four months for having violated the terms of a plea bargain regarding the Banestado case. He is now in Curitiba .\n\nYoussef is married to Joan of Arc Fernandes da Silva Youssef, who separated from him after learning of his extramarital affairs. His mistresses have included Nelma Kodama, a convicted criminal who is now in prison, and Taiana Camargo, a fashion model.\n\nIn Londrina, he was known as an extravagant spender on parties and women.\n"}
{"id": "1830058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1830058", "title": "Alonso Pita da Veiga", "text": "Alonso Pita da Veiga\n\nAlonso Pita da Veiga, born in Ferrol in 15th century Galicia, Spain, was one of the most remarkable officers of the Spanish Tercios fighting under the orders of Count Fernando de Andrade in the Battle of Pavia (Italy), and in other battles of the Italian Wars between the years 1513-1525. He was granted the right to display a coat of arms, and was granted land and property in Ferrolterra, his birthplace, for having participated in the capture, on the battlefield, of the king of France, Francis I.\n\nThe decree granting a coat of arms to Alonso Pita da Veiga, was archived at the General Archive of Simanca (Archivo general de Simancas, legajo 388, rotulado de \"Mercedes y Privilegios.’) and was issued by Emperor Charles V on 24 July 1529, four years after the Battle of Pavia. A verbatim text of the decree can be found in, among other 19th Century Spanish books, in the book, \"Crisol historico espanol y restauracion de glorias nacionales\", published in Havana, Cuba in 1862 by the Spanish historian José Ferrer de Couto. A summary of the document, in English translation, gives the following details:\n\n\"Alonso Pita da Veiga, Galician, and our vassal\" served his majesty well in several battles including the Battle of Bicencio and the Battle of Vicoca.\nIn regards to the Battle of Pavia, the decree states that Alonso Pita da Veiga recaptured the standard \" ... of His Most Serene Infante Don Fernando, who is now King of Hungary, Our most dear and loved son and brother, which bore the insignia of Our Duchy of Burgundy, which the French had taken when the standard-bearer was killed”. This refers to the standard of Ferdinand, the brother of Charles V, whose troops fought at Pravia. For this action, Alonso Pita da Veiga was awarded 600 gold ducats.\n\nIn regards to the capture of King Francis I of France, the decree states \"and in the same battle, you accomplished so much that you reached the person of said King (Francis I of France) and captured him, jointly with the other persons that captured him.” So, in effect, Charles V credited a group of individuals, and not a single individual, with the capture of King Francis I. For that action, Alonso Pita da Veiga was awarded the sum of 30,0000 maravedís per year, for life, \"above and beyond your pay as an 'hombre de arma'\". \"Hombre de arma\" was a term used in that era to signify a mounted warrior as opposed to a foot soldier.\n\nThe decree states that Alonso Pita da Veiga took from Francis I of France the following: \" and you took from him his left gauntlet and a brocade decorated with four crosses of silver cloth and a crucifix made of the True Cross, of which events the same King of France gave testimony in a document signed by his own hand.\"\n\nThe decree then awards Alonso Pita da Veiga a coat of arms, described in the decree, that incorporates the different elements of his deeds at the Battle of Pavia: \n\n“A coat of arms, quarted, the first quarter colored the color of blood and in it a gauntlet as a symbol that you took said King of France, and a royal Crown of gold above of said gauntlet; and in the lower quarter, a blue field with three gold fleur-de-lis which are the true arms of the Kings of France; and in the right quarter with the field colored as the superior quarter and in it the brocade decorated with its crosses; and the left quarter, likewise colored, and in it the said standard of the Most Serene King of Hungary with the arms of Our Duchy of Burgundy.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58742949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58742949", "title": "Banus", "text": "Banus\n\nBanus was a teacher of Titus Flavius Josephus, a first-century Romano-Jewish scholar, historian and hagiographer.\n\nJosephus wrote in his work \"Vita\" that Banus \"lived in the desert, used no other clothing than grew upon trees, had no other food than what grew of its own accord, and bathed himself in cold water frequently, both by night and by day, in order to preserve his chastity. I imitated him in those things, and\ncontinued with him three years.\" Josephus then returned to the city at the age of nineteen and began to live according to the rules of the Pharisees. \n\nChajes connects the name \"Banus\" with the Talmudic \"Bannaah\".\n"}
{"id": "42235481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42235481", "title": "Barrah bint Abdul Uzza", "text": "Barrah bint Abdul Uzza\n\nBarrah bint Abdul Uzza () ibn Uthman ibn Abd-al-Dar ibn Qusai ibn Kilab (of the Banu Abd ad-Dar) was the maternal grandmother of Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nThe mother of Barrah was Um Habib bint Asad ibn Abd-al-Uzza ibn Qusai ibn Kilab and her father was Abdul Uzza ibn Othman ibn Abd-al-Dar ibn Qusai. Therefore, Barrah's mother and father were second cousins. Moreover, Barra was a cousin of Khadija (first wife of the Prophet Muhammad) since her mother, Um Habib, was a sister of Khadija's father, Khuwaylid ibn Asad. Furthermore, the mother of Um Habib was Barrah bint Awf ibn Abid ibn Awij ibn Adiy ibn Ka'ab ibn Lu'ay ibn Ghalib; this was the maternal grandmother of Barrah bint Abdul Uzza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48160971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48160971", "title": "Belle (Once Upon a Time)", "text": "Belle (Once Upon a Time)\n\nBelle Gold (née French), briefly known as Lacey, is a fictional character in ABC's television series \"Once Upon a Time\". She is portrayed by Emilie de Ravin, who became a series regular in the second season and onwards after making recurring appearances in the first season, and has become a fan favorite since her debut. She is both based on the character from \"Beauty and the Beast\" by Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont, and the Disney princess of the 1991 film of the same name. Emilie de Ravin remained a series regular until the show’s sixth season. De Ravin departed the main cast at the conclusion of the sixth season, returning as a guest star for the fourth episode of the seventh season to bring the character some closure, solidified during a final appearance in the show's series finale.\n\nBelle is represented throughout the series as a hopeful individual who sees the best in people (occasionally, to a fault), a knowledgeable bookworm well-versed in many languages, and a steadfast heroine determined to help those in need.\n\nBelle grew up in the Enchanted Forest as the daughter of Sir Maurice (Eric Keenleyside) and his wife Colette (Frances O'Connor). She always had a close relationship with her mother, having been introduced to her love for books by her and taught different skills such as how to translate fairy language. Belle also had a childhood friend by the name of Samuel. However, besides this, not much else is known about Belle's life growing up. Nearing adulthood, Belle is startled to learn that war is ready to break out between her father's kingdom and the ogres. Her father arranges for her to marry Sir Gaston (Wes Brown), a union that Belle openly objects, though she agrees to go out on a walk with him and she surprisingly takes a liking to him. This all changes when she finds him torturing a young ogre, but she reluctantly agrees to marry him once the war does officially break out. At one point during the war, Belle and her family are forced to flee their castle; however, she and her mother spend time packing up all of their important books. An ogre storms the castle and kills Colette, and a traumatized Belle is left without any memory of the event. Desperate to know the truth, she travels to Arendelle where she meets Princess Anna (Elizabeth Lail). Anna takes her to rock troll Grand Pabbie (John Rhys-Davies) who is able to retract her memories and put them into a pebble which she's instructed to brew into a tea. However, due to an encounter with the Snow Queen (Elizabeth Mitchell), Belle loses the rock and returns home empty handed. Maurice confesses the truth to Belle, explaining how Colette sacrificed herself to save her. This sets Belle on the track of becoming a hero, as she reveals to her father that on her trip she learned of a man who could help them: Rumplestiltskin (Robert Carlyle).\n\nRumplestiltskin agrees to protect Belle's kingdom if she agrees to leave her life behind and live with him as his caretaker. Both Maurice and Gaston object to this, but Belle ignores their pleas and leaves with the Dark One. Belle is frightened of Rumplestiltskin and his Dark Castle, as he shows her to her \"room\": a ghastly dungeon. Belle starts to see the softer side of her captor when she accidentally chips a teacup and he brushes it off as nothing. At one point during Belle's stay in the Dark Castle, she and Rumplestiltskin are visited by an intruder, Robin Hood (Tom Ellis), who the Dark One proceeds to torture for trying to steal from him. Feeling compassion for the thief, Belle releases Robin in her master's absence. When Rumplestiltskin returns, he demands she accompany him on his journey to find and kill the thief for stealing a magic wand from his castle. When Belle and Rumple see that Robin had only stolen the wand to cure his sick and pregnant wife (Christie Laing), Rumple spares the thief's life. Belle embraces Rumplestiltskin in a hug, seeing that there's a man behind the beast, and he later gifts her with a library. It is implied that Belle and Robin Hood shared an encounter sometime after these events when Belle met the thief in his true form (Sean Maguire). Some time later, Rumplestiltskin returns home one day with a stolen baby, which he leaves for Belle to take care of. She's appalled and frightened by whatever he plans to do with the child, and so she sets out to unveil his plans and save the baby's life. Belle sneaks into Rumple's study and translates a scroll written in ancient fairy language. This, however, was all part of Rumplestiltskin's plan, as he needed her to translate the text, and he locks her in the library. The Blue Fairy (Keegan Connor Tracy) subsequently frees Belle, and she finds Rumplestiltskin using the child to summon the Black Fairy (Jaime Murray), his mother. Belle is horrified by the Black Fairy's treatment of Rumplestiltskin, but nonetheless chides him for stealing a child. She then returns the child to his parents, Jack (Nick Hunnings) and Jill (Tammy Gillis).\n\nBelle and Rumplestiltskin's bond is further explored when Belle is targeted by the Queens of Darkness - Maleficent (Kristin Bauer van Straten), Ursula (Merrin Dungey), and Cruella De Vil (Victoria Smurfit) - who ransom her for Rumplestiltskin's enchanted gauntlet. The Dark One meets the three women at Demon's Bluff with the gauntlet, and is given no choice but to hand it over when Ursula threatens Belle's life. Once again, she sees something good in him beneath the beast. One day, Belle is sent out to the market in order to pick up things for Rumplestiltskin when she stumbles upon her old friend Samuel, injured, so she brings him back to the Dark Castle to nurse him back to health. As it turns out however, he was only there to steal Rumplestiltskin's dagger, giving him control over the Dark One, and so Belle betrays him to protect Rumple. As Belle and Rumple grow closer, his attitude towards her becomes more playful and lighthearted. Belle opens up Rumple's nailed down curtains and even convinces him to share the story of his lost son (Dylan Schmid). The Dark One agrees to tell Belle everything if she returns home from town with straw, this being his subtle way of setting her free, having developed genuine feelings for her. Though Belle plans not to return at first, she runs into the Evil Queen (Lana Parrilla) on the road and learns that Rumplestiltskin's curse can be broken with a kiss of true love. Realizing that she's in love with the Dark One and that he loves her back, Belle returns and attempts to break his curse, only for it to backfire when Rumplestiltskin learns it was the Queen's idea. He lashes out at Belle and sends her back to the dungeon, and eventually kicks her out of his castle altogether. Belle argues that power won't be enough for Rumple and that he is only doing this because he doesn't believe anyone could truly love him. Before leaving, she says, \"Now, you've made your choice. And you're going to regret it. Forever. All you'll have is an empty heart... and a chipped cup.\" \n\nRather than return home to her friends and family, Belle spends some days in a local tavern where she meets a dwarf named Dreamy (Lee Arenberg). After convincing him to go after his love (Amy Acker), he encourages her to seek out adventure and join a group of men on the hunt for a beast known as the Yaoguai. She does so, but these men ignorantly discredit a woman's ability to hunt and kick her off their wagon, so she sends them in the wrong direction and proceeds to hunt the creature herself. She winds up befriending a warrior named Mulan (Jamie Chung), and she is eventually able to track the Yaoguai down. However, as it turns out, this beast has merely been trying to communicate with them. With the aid of some fairy dust given to her by Dreamy, Belle restores the creature to its true form: Prince Phillip (Julian Morris). While Phillip and Mulan go off together in order to rescue Princess Aurora (Sarah Bolger), Belle decides to return to Rumplestiltskin. She's unable to do so, however, when the Evil Queen arrives to take her captive. Belle vows that the Queen cannot keep her and Rumple apart forever. Regina visits Rumple in his castle and convinces him that Belle was rejected by her father upon returning home and committed suicide by throwing herself off a tower, leaving him utterly heartbroken, while secretly Belle remains a prisoner in the Queen's castle. Belle is later sought out by Captain Hook (Colin O'Donoghue), an old enemy of Rumplestiltskin's who believes that the Dark One's former maid may know the key to his undoing. Belle refuses to aid in his quest, so Hook knocks her unconscious and prepares to kill her, but Regina intervenes as she believes Belle to be a \"valuable chess piece\". It is assumed that Belle remained in the Queen's captivity until the casting of the First Curse.\n\nWhen the Evil Queen enacts a powerful Dark Curse that puts everyone in the town of Storybrooke, Maine with false memories for the next 28 years, Belle spends that entire span of time locked away in the psychiatric ward beneath the town's hospital. Unlike the other townspeople, Belle was left a blank slate and set to serve merely as a prisoner in order to keep her away from Rumplestiltskin or, as he's known in Storybrooke, Mr. Gold. However, when time starts moving again and Mr. Gold regains his memories of his past life in the Enchanted Forest, he forms a vendetta against Belle's father, believing he drove her to suicide. Sheriff Emma Swan (Jennifer Morrison) arrests Gold when he beats Moe French nearly to death, but when behind bars, Regina returns to him the chipped teacup in exchange for confirming to her that he knows the truth about the curse. She then proceeds to check up on a locked up Belle, who appears absolutely miserable.\n\nAs the Dark Curse nears its end with the Savior beginning to believe in magic, things start to fall apart for Regina. This includes her alliance with Jefferson, the Mad Hatter (Sebastian Stan), whom she refuses to hold up her end of a deal with after he procured her the poisoned apple she once used on Snow White (Ginnifer Goodwin). Wanting to hurt Regina, Jefferson breaks Belle out of her cell and instructs that she seek out Mr. Gold, insisting that he will protect her. Belle does so, shocking Gold beyond belief as he spent years believing she was dead. He embraces her with a hug, though she has no memory of him, but he assures her that she soon will. The two are seen headed towards the town's wishing well when the curse is officially broken. Belle's memories are restored, as she embraces Gold and declares her love for him, which he reciprocates. Gold puts their reunion on a short hold though, as he proceeds to drop a vial of True Love into the well, bringing magic to Storybrooke.\n\nThough Belle has been reunited with Rumplestiltskin, he continues to struggle with his dark impulses. Upon learning that Regina had locked Belle up for 28 years, he summons a Wraith to kill the Queen. A disappointed Belle temporarily leaves him. She soon returns though, deciding she can't give up on him just yet, and they continue to pursue a relationship. Belle moves in with Rumple, as she is oblivious to her father trying to find her; however, when he does, he attempts to force her over the town line to make her forget about her life with Rumplestiltskin, refusing to bless their relationship. This makes her both upset with him and Rumple, who she's learned is continuing to practice dark magic. Though she cuts ties with both of them, she eventually gives Rumple another chance upon realizing that he's attempting to change, giving her the town's library and setting her up with the apartment above it. They agree to then go out and get a hamburger, as Belle has never had one before. As Belle explores life in Storybrooke, she comes to befriend Ruby (Meghan Ory), who turns into a werewolf during every full moon. Belle stands by Ruby and insists that she is not the monster many believe her to be, as Belle sees the goodness in her heart. Meanwhile, Belle and Rumple grow closer, as they continue to go out on dates like lunch at Granny's Diner and a picnic in Rumple's pawnshop. However, interruptions occur frequently as the town panics due to the arrival of Regina's mother, Cora (Barbara Hershey), who has become a new threat to them all.\n\nBelle supports Rumple in his mission to find a loophole around the town line barrier in hopes of going out in search of his long lost son, but ventures out on her own when it is revealed that Captain Hook has made it to Storybrooke and attacks her in the library. She ends up rescuing Archie Hopper (Raphael Sbarge) from being held hostage on the Jolly Roger, facing off against Hook. Rumple appears and beats Hook to Belle's horror, as she begs him to show her that her faith in him is justified. After Rumple spares Hook's life and prepares to leave town, Hook shoots Belle in an attempt at revenge. This sends her tumbling across the town line, causing her to lose her memory, just as an outsider drives into Storybrooke. Though Rumple is able to heal Belle's gunshot wound immediately, she's escorted to the hospital in order to be kept under intensive care while suffering from amnesia. Rumple attempts to get through to Belle by showing her the chipped teacup, a remnant of their life together, but a scared and confused Belle throws and smashes the cup. Heartbroken, Rumple leaves. Ruby visits Belle in the hospital but is disappointed that she doesn't remember who she is. When Belle recalls Rumple healing her wound with magic, as well as creating a fireball to throw at Hook, Ruby acts as though Belle isn't making any sense. Belle knows what she saw though, sending her into a frenzy, prompting a nurse sedating her. She later learns that she isn't alone in her belief, for she is approached by Greg Mendell (Ethan Embry), who reveals that he saw the same thing at the town line. \n\nWith Regina and Cora now conspiring together, Regina visits Belle in the hospital in an attempt to learn where Rumple's Dark One dagger is located. Rumple is later poisoned with Dreamshade by Hook, and on his deathbed Rumple calls Belle at the hospital to speak to her one last time, telling her that although she cannot remember it, she is a hero. Their call ends, but Rumple is cured when Mary Margaret sacrifices Cora's life for Rumple's.\nBelle is relieved when Rumple visits her, seeing that he's still alive. Their happiness does not last though, as Regina magically instills a new persona in Belle - a party girl with loose morals by the name of Lacey - who Rumple soon finds at the local bar, after being discharged from the hospital. The two don't initially click, but Rumple is soon able to make it work when he discovers that Lacey is attracted to his dark side. They continue to pursue a relationship, but Hook learns that Rumple is still alive when he sees the couple out walking the streets of Storybrooke. Lacey serves as a bad influence for Rumple, which goes noticed by Baelfire, now known as Neal (Michael Raymond-James), who Rumple has found and brought back to Storybrooke. Lacey soon learns that Rumple has magic, as well as the ability to grant her eternal youth. She reacts positively and suggests Rumple do what he must to preserve their future, oblivious to the fact that it means killing his grandson, Henry Mills (Jared S. Gilmore). Thanks to her old friend Dreamy (or Leroy, as he is known in our world), Belle's memories are eventually restored in the midst of the destruction of Storybrooke. She embraces Rumple as they prepare to die, but the town is soon saved, and Rumple must leave on a new quest to save Henry from Neverland. He leaves Belle behind with a protection spell to cast over the town. As he's fated to die on this mission, he expects this to be their final goodbye, but Belle promises that she'll see him again.\n\nRumplestilskin encounters a form of Belle frequently in Neverland as an illusion to act as a crutch to his cowardliness; she is later revealed as his father Peter Pan's shadow in disguise. In Storybrooke, Belle helps Ariel retrieve Pandora's Box to send to the heroes in Neverland as a method of defeating Pan. Belle and Rumple are reunited when the group returns to Storybrooke after retrieving Henry, though Gold soon sacrifices himself to destroy his father and save Belle and the others. Belle breaks down, believing Rumple to be gone forever. Despite Rumple's heroic act, Pan's curse remains and Belle, along with the other inhabitants of Storybrooke, are sent back to their original worlds. In the Enchanted Forest, Belle and Neal travel to the Vault of the Dark One, where it is said the Dark One can be resurrected. Despite Belle's warnings of the price of magic, Neal ignores the possible repercussions and unlocks the vault, resurrecting Rumplestiltskin but sacrificing his own life in the process. Rumple absorbs Neal's body and consciousness into himself before Neal can die, however, and the Wicked Witch of the West obtains Rumple's dagger. Belle returns to Snow and Charming's castle, informing them of Rumple's resurrection. Months later, the heroes sneak into Rumple's Dark Castle, where he is being held prisoner by Zelena, the Wicked Witch. Belle is able to temporarily get through to Rumple, who is being driven mad by the multiple voices in his head, and he tells her that Zelena's weakness is light magic. Belle is returned to Storybrooke with no memories of the previous year when Snow and Charming enact the Dark Curse to stop Zelena from taking their baby. In Storybrooke, Emma separates Neal from Rumple's body in order to learn the identity of the Wicked Witch, and Neal dies shortly after. Belle mourns Neal's death with the rest of the town and eventually deduces Zelena's plan to change the past. She also discovers once again that Zelena is in possession of the Dark One's dagger and is keeping Rumple captive and under her control. Belle attempts to get through to Rumple and help him break free of the dagger's control, but Zelena stops her before she can. Belle's memories of the missing year are returned along with everyone else's when Regina breaks the new curse. Upon Regina's defeat of Zelena, Mr. Gold proposes to Belle after entrusting her with his dagger (though unbeknownst to her, it is a replica) and the two are married at the wishing well.\n\nBelle and Rumple share a blissful honeymoon in the Sorcerer's mansion, where Rumple discovers the Sorcerer's Hat. With Rumple's help, Belle discovers the Snow Queen's lair and is taunted by her reflection in the Snow Queen's magic mirror, causing her to question her faith in Rumple and their relationship. She quickly sets these doubts aside, however. Later, Belle helps Emma and Elsa deduce the Snow Queen's ultimate goal. Belle eventually learns of Rumple's deception, tearfully banishing her husband from the town with the power of the real dagger before he is able to kill Hook. While Gold is gone, Belle and Hook form a kind of friendship as they work together to find a way to free the fairies from the Sorcerer's Hat. Gold manages to return to Storybrooke with Ursula and Cruella de Vil, only to find Belle involved in a romantic relationship with Will Scarlet. In an attempt to threaten Gold, who is now working with the Queens of Darkness, Regina steals Belle's heart. Gold and Will work together to get it back, and Gold returns the heart to Belle and apologizes once again for his actions, telling Will that it is now his job to protect Belle's heart. In the alternate reality temporarily created by The Author, Belle and Rumple are living happily together with a child of their own. When Henry undoes The Author's actions and returns everyone to reality, Belle tells Gold that they could have truly had that happiness if not for his actions. As Gold's condition worsens, and he is consumed by the Dark One's powers, Belle confesses to him that she does not love Will and vows not to let him die alone. The Sorcerer's Apprentice removes the darkness from Gold's heart, though he remains in a comatose state whilst the darkness is taken in by Emma Swan.\n\nWith the other residents of Storybrooke, Belle travels to the Enchanted Forest, taking Emma to Camelot in order to find Merlin and remove the Dark One's power from within her. However, weeks later, they return to Storybrooke with missing memories as to how they failed. During her time in Camelot, Belle's growing knowledge of spells helped to free Lancelot and Merida from King Arthur's prison. Belle subsequently helped Merida of Dunbroch win back her kingdom and save her three brothers from the other clans. In Storybrooke, Dark Emma awakens Rumple from his coma. Emma then steals Merida's heart and commands her to kill Belle in hopes that it will inspire Rumple to become a hero. Rumple insists that he and Belle leave town, but she refuses to run away from her life and the people she cares about. Dark Emma transforms Merida into a bear that chases Belle through the woods until the bear is stopped by Rumple, who feeds it anti-transformation powder in order to revert Merida to human form. Belle witnesses Rumple embrace his newfound heroism and remove Excalibur from its stone. After everyone's memory is restored and Rumple heroically faces Dark Hook, Rumple tells Belle that he is ready to finally be the man she deserves. Belle declines his offer to rekindle their relationship, stating that she has spent too long trying to heal his heart and that she has lost track of her own in the process. Upon the arrival of all previous Dark Ones in Storybrooke, Rumple sends Belle out of town so that she may escape the immediate threat and finally see the world as she has always wanted to. Belle accepts the offer and leaves, but returns once the threat is vanquished and tells Rumple that she wants to be with him because he has proven to be truly selfless, though she is unaware that Rumple has now reclaimed the powers of the Dark One.\n\nBelle remains in Storybrooke when Rumple travels with Emma to the Underworld to rescue Hook, but is unaware that she is pregnant with their first child (although it is Rumple's second born child). It is revealed that, many years ago, Rumple promised his second born child to a healer back in the Enchanted Forest in exchange for saving young Baelfire's life. Now the healer has died and signed the contract over to Hades, whom the baby is now owed to. After she is sent through a portal along with Zelena and her daughter, Belle learns the truth from Gold about his reacquired powers and her pregnancy as well as the contract, putting her life and that of their unborn child in jeopardy once again. Belle is horrified by Rumple's embracing of his inner darkness, but agrees to work with him to save their child from Hades. Motivated by Hades, Gaston makes multiple attempts to kill Rumplestiltskin, reuniting Belle with her ex-fiancé. After confronting Gold about his murder of Gaston decades earlier, Belle intends to help Gaston move on from the Underworld, only to learn that Gaston blames her for his death. In an attempt to rescue Rumplestiltskin, Belle inadvertently pushes Gaston into the River of Lost Souls, damning him to eternal torment. Consumed with guilt over what she did to Gaston and fearing for her child's safety, Belle places herself under a sleeping curse given to her by Zelena, believing it will give Gold enough time to save their child from Hades. Before falling under, Belle makes Gold promise to return her to her father. Gold attempts to wake Belle with True Love's Kiss and fails, for Belle has begun losing faith in him again. To keep her and his unborn child safe, Rumple places Belle inside of Pandora's Box. In the season five finale, Pandora's Box is stolen by Mr. Hyde from the Land of Untold Stories. Hyde agrees to return the box containing Belle to Gold if he allows Hyde to conquer Storybrooke, a deal which Gold readily accepts.\n\nBelle remains in her self-induced sleeping curse in Pandora's Box. Rumple enters her dreamworld to try to wake her, but fails in doing so. Her unborn son wakes her instead, and she once again rejects Rumple's offer to make a home together. As she seeks a new place to stay, Hook offers for Belle to stay on the Jolly Roger in repentance for attacking her in the past. Belle forgives him and accepts, recognizing that Hook is a changed man. After making a deal with Gold, David delivers a cassette tape to Belle which plays a Scottish lullaby recorded by Rumple for their son. Soon after, Rumple casts a spell forbidding Belle to leave the boat due to a serious threat from Mr. Hyde. However, the spell puts her in danger when she cannot flee from the true threat, Dr. Jekyll. This further deteriorates Belle and Rumple's relationship, as she insists she does not need his protection and Rumple argues that she will come back to him when she needs him. When Zelena notifies Belle of Rumple's relationship with the Evil Queen (Regina's newly-separated \"evil half\") and his plans to use the Shears of Destiny on their son to keep him from growing to hate Rumple, Belle confronts him. She tells him to stop trying to take their son's love, but to be worthy of it instead. Belle briefly forges an alliance with Zelena in order to escape Storybrooke, but Rumple stops them before she can. In the episode \"Changelings\", the Evil Queen speeds up Belle's pregnancy and Belle gives birth to Gideon. She gives her son to the Blue Fairy, fearing Rumple will try to take the child as he previously threatened. But the Blue Fairy is ambushed by Rumple's mother, the Black Fairy. Gideon is taken to the Dark Realm where he grows up very quickly and develops an immoral persona. Rumple apologizes for his villainous actions and tells Belle that they need to start trusting each other in order to save their son. In the mid-season finale, an adult Gideon arrives in Storybrooke and is shown confronting his mother and father in Gold's shop.\n\nGideon explains to his parents that he has arrived in Storybrooke to kill the Savior and take her powers for himself in order to defeat the Black Fairy and free the Dark Realm. Belle agrees to work with Rumple in order to save their son from the darkness growing inside of him and to prevent the looming \"war\" in Storybrooke. Rumple and Belle later learn that Gideon has been under the control of the Black Fairy, who has stolen his heart. After Rumple secretly forges an alliance with his mother in order to retrieve Gideon's heart, he returns the heart and Gideon happily reunites with his parents. The Black Fairy then casts her curse to begin the Final Battle, which separates Belle from her husband and son and turns her into a recluse and a hermit, afraid to leave the confines of her home. This is in direct contrast to Belle's true nature and love of travel and adventure. In addition, the Black Fairy once again steals Gideon's heart and commands him to kill the Savior. To break the curse, Rumple kills the Black Fairy, and he and Belle happily reunite. Together they enter the mines to once again retrieve Gideon's heart and stop him before he can kill Emma. Upon finding the heart and considering the power he could gain from Emma's death, Rumple makes the decision to ignore his dark impulses and commands Gideon to let Emma live. The end of the Final Battle sees adult Gideon disappear and reappear to Belle and Rumple as the baby she originally gave up. Belle and Rumple celebrate their \"happy beginning\" together with the Charmings, Emma, Hook, Regina, and Zelena at Granny's Diner.\n\nOne year after the events of the season six finale, Belle and Rumple are planning baby Gideon’s first birthday party. Rumple gives Belle a travel book and promises her that he’s going to give her what she’s always wanted: a chance to see the world. Ten years later, along their travels, Belle, Rumple, and Gideon explore an ancient bridge above a river said to grant people’s greatest wishes. Rumple reveals to Belle that he no longer wishes to have the powers of the Dark One, because he wants to live out a mortal life with her. He drops the dagger into the river, but it instantly reappears. Belle vows to help Rumple find a way to be rid of his curse forever. Eight years later, Belle, Rumple, and Gideon are living in a castle or large estate in an unspecified location. Belle and Rumple are ecstatic to discover that (a now 18-year-old) Gideon has been accepted into a prestigious academy. Belle then reveals to Rumple that she has discovered and translated a fairy prophecy, which states: “When the Dark One finds eternal love, at the sun’s brightest set, where time stops, the path will appear to where the darkness shall rest.” Rumple tells Belle that the place referred to by the prophecy is the Edge of Realms, the edge of all existence where the sun never sets and time passes differently. Belle understands at this time that “the sun’s brightest set” means her own death, but purposely withholds this information from Rumple as she knows he would do anything to prevent it. Belle decides she would rather live a long, happy life with Rumple rather than endlessly seek another answer. The two travel to the Edge of Realms and decide to build their home there without the use of magic. Many blissful years pass, as Belle ages into an elderly woman and Rumple remains immortal. On her deathbed, Belle reveals to a distraught Rumple that only by letting her go may he finally find the answer to getting rid of the Dark One curse and ultimately reunite with her in death. Rumple tells Belle that he is too afraid to let her go, but she reminds him of their timeless tale. As she passes, Belle’s final words to Rumple are: “You let me go once before, and we found our way back to each other. You’re a good man, Rumple. Your heart is pure. You will find the answer you need to get rid of the dagger, and you will find your way back to me, okay? I promise.” (\"Beauty\")\n\nAs the season progresses, Rumple's quest to reunite with Belle seems hopeless, until the series finale \"Leaving Storybrooke\", in which his Dark One powers are stripped from him by The Author and he untimately sacrifices his heart to save Wish Hook. Following Rumple's death, Belle appears to him in the afterlife in her signature gold ballgown. The two kiss, as Belle says lovingly, “I knew you’d make it home.”\n\nThe producers had planned to make the Belle only a recurring role in the series, but after sporadic appearances in the first season and an overwhelmingly positive reaction from fans to Belle and Rumplestiltskin's relationship, she was promoted to a series regular in the second season.\n\nHad de Ravin not accepted the role of Belle, she would've gone on to star in a television series called \"Americana\"; ABC decided to pass on the pilot in 2012.\n\nde Ravin's return as Belle in the season seven episode \"Beauty\" received widespread critical acclaim. In an interview with \"Entertainment Weekly\", de Ravin said, \"I was so excited to be able to bring their story to the fans and to bring their later years in love, and to be able to play that was really beautiful. They’ve had quite a tumultuous relationship, so for them to be able to get to a place of such acceptance with each other and themselves, and with life, and this inner peace that has washed over them. […] Her acceptance of mortality is shining a lot brighter than his acceptance or non-acceptance of immortality, which you’d expect to be the reverse in a way. That’s quite beautiful and was lovely to play.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "206027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=206027", "title": "Carpocrates", "text": "Carpocrates\n\nCarpocrates of Alexandria was the founder of an early Gnostic sect from the first half of the 2nd century. As with many Gnostic sects, we know of the Carpocratians only through the writings of the Church Fathers, principally Irenaeus of Lyons and Clement of Alexandria. As these writers strongly opposed Gnostic doctrine, there is a question of negative bias when using this source. While the various references to the Carpocratians differ in some details, they agree as to the libertinism of the sect. However, such charges were common. Pagans accused Christians of immorality, and Christians made the same charges against fellow Christians who they considered heretical.\n\nThe earliest and most vivid account of Carpocrates and his followers comes from Irenaeus (died 202) in his \"Against Heresies\" including an account of the theology and practice of the sect.\n\nThey believe, he writes, that Jesus was not divine; but because his soul was \"steadfast and pure\", he \"remembered those things which he had witnessed within the sphere of the unbegotten God\" (similar to Plato's concept of Anamnesis). Because of this, Jesus was able to free himself from the material powers (what other Gnostics call Archons, the Demiurge, etc.). Carpocratians believed they themselves could transcend the material realm, and therefore were no longer bound by Mosaic law, which was based on the material powers, or by any other morality, which, they held, was mere human opinion. Irenaeus offers this belief as an explanation of their licentious behaviour.\n\nIrenaeus then goes on to provide his further, slightly different, explanation. The followers of Carpocrates, he says, believed that in order to leave this world, one's imprisoned eternal soul must pass through every possible condition of earthly life. Moreover, it is possible to do this within one lifetime. As a result, the Carpocratians did \"all those things which we dare not either speak or hear of\" so that when they died, they would not be compelled to incarnate again but would return to God. (Borges depicts a fictional sect with this belief in his short story \"The Theologians\".)\n\nIrenaeus says that they practised various magical arts as well as leading a licentious life. He also says that they possessed a portrait of Christ, a painting they claimed had been made by Pontius Pilate during his lifetime, which they honoured along with images of Plato, Pythagoras and Aristotle \"in the manner of the Gentiles\".\n\nSome early Christian authors opposed representational art, and statues and portraits and sculptures are crude and stylised. According to Robin Lane Fox: \"Only one group of early Christians, the heretical Carpocratians, are known to have owned portraits of Christ\". However, early Christian art from the early third century depicting Jesus is widespread and cannot be limited only to the Carpocratians. Furthermore, the fact that depictions of Jesus are mentioned by multiple early Christian authors, whether in a positive or negative manner, is an indication that these depictions were popular enough to be noticed and must have received the acceptance of some Christian authorities. Moreover, early Christianity was heavily influenced by Judaism, which generally forbids religious depictions, and the reluctance of some authors to accept depictions of Jesus could be ascribed to Jewish influences rather than to Christian doctrine. \n\nCarpocrates is also mentioned by Clement of Alexandria in his \"Stromateis\". Clement quotes extensively from \"On Righteousness\" which he says was written by Epiphanes, Carpocrates' son. No copy outside of Clement's citation exists, but the writing is of a strongly antinomian bent. It claims that differences in class and the ownership of property are unnatural, and argues for property and women to be held in common. Clement confirms the licentiousness of the Carpocratians, claiming that at their Agape (meaning an early Christian gathering) they \"have intercourse where they will and with whom they will\".\n\nAccording to Clement, Carpocrates was from Alexandria although his sect was primarily located in Cephallenia.\n\nCarpocrates is again mentioned in the controversial \"Mar Saba letter\", purportedly also by Clement of Alexandria, which Morton Smith claimed to have discovered in 1958. The letter mentions and quotes from a previously unsuspected \"Secret Gospel of Mark\", saying that Carpocrates had wheedled an opportunity to copy it in Alexandria. The letter states that a corrupted copy was circulating among Carpocrates' followers.\n\nOther references to Carpocrates exist but are likely to be based on the two already cited.\n\nEpiphanius of Salamis writes that\nCarpocrates is also mentioned by Tertullian and Hippolytus, both of whom seem to rely on Irenaeus; and also perhaps by Origen and Hegesippus.\n\nSøren Kierkegaard mentioned them in his 1844 book, \"The Concept of Anxiety\":\n\n"}
{"id": "1760929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1760929", "title": "Consigliere", "text": "Consigliere\n\nConsigliere (; , plural \"consiglieri\") is a position within the leadership structure of the Sicilian, Calabrian and American Mafia. The word was popularized by the novel \"The Godfather\" (1969) and its film adaptation. In the novel, a consigliere is an advisor or counselor to the boss, with the additional responsibility of representing the boss in important meetings both within the boss's crime family and with other crime families. The consigliere is a close, trusted friend and confidant, the mob's version of an elder statesman; he is an advisor to the boss in a Mafia crime family, and sometimes is his 'right-hand man'. By the very nature of the job, a consigliere is one of the few in the family who can argue with the boss, and is often tasked with challenging the boss when needed, to ensure subsequent plans are foolproof. In some depictions, he is devoid of ambition and dispenses disinterested advice. This passive image of the consigliere does not correspond with what little is known of real-life consiglieri, however.\n\nA real-life Mafia consigliere is generally the number-three person in a crime family, after the boss and underboss in most cases. The boss, underboss, and consigliere constitute a three-man ruling panel, or \"administration\". The Genovese crime family are credited with inventing the rank of Messaggero, who is tasked with serving as a liaison between the other American Mafia families.\n\nIn Italian, \"consigliere\" means \"adviser\" or \"counselor\" and is still a common title for example for members of city councils in Italy and Switzerland. It is derived from Latin \"consiliarius\" (advisor) and \"consilium\" (advice). The terminology of the American Mafia is taken from that of the Sicilian Mafia, and suggests that an analogy is intended to imitate the court of a medieval Italian principality. For example, Venice was led by a \"doge\" (\"duke\") and a \"consigliere ducale\" (advisor to the doge). An underboss will normally move up to boss when the position becomes vacant, so his position is equivalent to that of heir to the throne. Consigliere, meanwhile, is analogous to chief minister or chancellor. (In the novel \"The Godfather\" the word is spelled \"consigliori\"; in the films, it is clearly pronounced \"consigliere\".) Joe Bonanno explains in his book \"A Man of Honor\" that a consigliere is more the voice or representative of the soldiers of the family, and that he may help to mediate in or resolve disputes on behalf of the lower echelons of the family.\n\nJoe Valachi mentions a mysterious \"Sandino\" arbitrating disputes as the Genovese family consigliere in the 1940s. However, consiglieri in more recent times have tended to take a more active role in family affairs. In 1971, Colombo family consigliere Joseph Yacovelli directed a murder campaign against renegade Colombo family soldier Joseph \"Crazy Joe\" Gallo. Two decades later, another Colombo consigliere, Carmine Sessa, led a hit team that attempted to assassinate the acting boss, Victor Orena. Frank Bompensiero was appointed consigliere of the Los Angeles crime family in 1976, only to be murdered in a public phone booth in February 1977; his boss had promoted Bompensiero so as to induce him to let his guard down. Electronic surveillance in 1979 recorded New England Mafia boss Raymond L.S. Patriarca talking about appointing his consigliere, so the position need not be chosen as a result of a consensus-seeking process. When New Jersey consigliere Stefano \"Steve the Truck Driver\" Vitabile found out in 1992 that his family's underboss, John \"Johnny Boy\" D'Amato, was bisexual, he ordered him killed. Paul Gulino, a drug dealer and associate of the Bonanno crime family, was murdered in 1993 after he allegedly \"put hands\" on his family's consigliere.\n\nJames Ida, the current Genovese consigliere, has been serving a life sentence since 1996. Dominick Cirillo is the family's acting consigliere. Joseph Corozzo is the current Gambino consigliere, while Anthony Rabito is consigliere for the Bonanno crime family. As these examples illustrate, modern consiglieri are generally former soldiers and capos, not outside advisers.\n\n"}
{"id": "44933931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44933931", "title": "Crofton family", "text": "Crofton family\n\nThe Crofton Family is an Anglo-Irish noble family holding titles in the Peerage of Ireland and The Baronetage of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Crofton family is divided into three main branches, all holding titles in their own right. \nThe Crofton estate in the townland of Ballymurray in Co. Roscommon was first granted to John Crofton during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. He was the first occupier, having been appointed Auditor General in 1584. In addition to this estate he also obtained extensive grants of lands elsewhere in the county as well as in Leitrim and Sligo. It was not until 1661 that a Crofton obtained a title however, when Edward Crofton became a Baronet of the Mote for services rendered to Charles II during the Cromwellian rebellion. This is now a subsidiary title to that of Baron Crofton.\n\nThe title of Baron Crofton of the Mote is the most senior. It was created in 1797 (as Baroness Crofton) for Dame Anne Crofton. She was the widow of Sir Edward Crofton, 2nd Baronet, of the Mote, who had represented Roscommon in the Irish House of Commons and had been offered a peerage just before his death. The peerage was instead bestowed upon his widow. She was succeeded by her grandson, the second Baron, who had already succeeded as fourth Baronet. He sat in the House of Lords as an Irish Representative Peer from 1840 to 1869 and served as a Lord-in-waiting (government whip in the House of Lords) in the three Conservative administrations of the Earl of Derby and in Benjamin Disraeli's first government. His son, the third Baron, served as an Irish Representative Peer between 1873 and 1912 and was also State Steward to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. His nephew, the fourth Baron, was an Irish Representative Peer from 1916 to 1942. Edward, 3rd baron Crofton, was a noted composer and became a Representative Peer for Ireland in 1873. As of 2014 the titles are held by the latter's great-great-grandson, the eighth Baron, who succeeded his father in 2007.\n\nThis branch is now the older male branch of the Crofton family in Ireland. \nEdward Crofton of Longford House in the County of Sligo was granted a Baronetcy in 1661. However, this title became extinct with Sir Oliver Crofton, 5th Bt. in 1780. \nThe Crofton Baronetcy, of Longford House in the County of Sligo, was created in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom on 18 August 1838 for Sir James Crofton. Head of the elder male branch of the family, Sir James was also a Major of the Sligo Militia and Deputy Lieutenant of the County. He was descended from Thomas Crofton, uncle of the first Baronet of the 1661 creation. As of 31 January 2014 the present Baronet has not officially proven his succession and is therefore not on the Official Roll of the Baronetage, with the baronetcy considered dormant since 2002.\n\nThe family seat remains Longford House, Co. Sligo.\n\nThe Croftons of Mohill Castle settled in Ireland in 1643 following a patent from Charles I.\nAlthough this branch of the family was of some distinction, they remained untitled until 1801. The Crofton Baronetcy, of Mohill in the County of Leitrim, was created in the Baronetage of the United Kingdom on 10 August 1801 for Morgan Crofton. The sixth Baronet was a Lieutenant-Colonel in the 2nd Life Guards and fought in the Second Boer War, where he was severely wounded at the Relief of Ladysmith, and in the two world wars. His diaries from the First World War are published as \"Massacre of the Innocents: The Crofton Diaries, Ypres 1914–1915\",2004. Another member of the family, James Crofton, grandson of Morgan Crofton, third son of the first Baronet, was a Lieutenant-General in the Army. \n\nThe family seat remains Mohill Castle, Co. Leitrim.\n\nThe total holdings of the Croftons in Co Roscommon consisted of 11,053 acres, according to the Bateman Edition of Great Landowners of Great Britain and Ireland in 1883. The size of the Mote Park estate in Ballymurray consisted of c.7000 acres. Although this was a sizeable estate, when compared with others such as the Essex properties consisting of the town of Roscommon itself and extensive lands to the north, totalling some 36,000 acres, it clearly was not the largest.\n\nMote Park House was built by the Crofton family in the later half of the eighteenth century, preceding the Castle of Mote erected by the family in 1620.\n\nCrofton House, (at Mote Park,shown) was clearly an imposing structure and reflects the influence of neo-classicism prevalent at this time. This style emphasizes for the first time a sense of permanence and security among the landowning class. The house was the most impressive of its type built in Co. Roscommon, the others of this period being located at Runnamoat near\nBallymoe, and Sandford House in Castlerea.\nThe house was originally an irregular two-storey-over-basement house, which the architect Richard Morrison more than doubled in size by adding six bays and an extra storey. It had a deep hall with a screen of columns, beyond which a door flanked by niches led into an oval library in the bow on the garden front.\nThese gardens contained many fine architectural features, some of which are still intact. Perhaps the most splendid surviving feature is the original entrance gate consisting of a Doric triumphal arch surmounted by a lion with screen walls linking two identical lodge houses. In 1865 a fire destroyed the entire house at Mote Park, as another had destroyed their castle a century previously. While the house was being re-built in 1866, the family occupied the old barrack room in the farmyard. Following the death of Lord Henry, his nephew, Arthur Edward Crofton became the last of the Croftons to reside at Mote, but moved to England in the 1940s.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe heir apparent is his son Henry Morgan Crofton (born 1979)\n"}
{"id": "42674145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42674145", "title": "Eddy Thomas", "text": "Eddy Thomas\n\nEddy Thomas (c. 1932 – April 10, 2014) was a Jamaican dancer, choreographer and dance instructor. In 1962, Thomas and Rex Nettleford co-founded the National Dance Theatre Company of Jamaica (NDTC). Before establishing the NDTC, Thomas was a member of the Martha Graham Dance Company in New York City.\n\nThomas died at his home in Montego Bay, Jamaica, on April 10, 2014, at the age of 82.\n"}
{"id": "1037097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1037097", "title": "F. L. Lucas", "text": "F. L. Lucas\n\nFrank Laurence Lucas (28 December 1894 – 1 June 1967) was an English classical scholar, literary critic, poet, novelist, playwright, political polemicist, Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, and intelligence officer at Bletchley Park during World War II.\n\nHe is now best remembered for his scathing 1923 review of T. S. Eliot's \"The Waste Land\", and for his book \"Style\" (1955; revised 1962), an acclaimed guide to recognising and writing good prose. His \"Tragedy in Relation to Aristotle's 'Poetics'\" (1927, substantially revised in 1957) was for over fifty years a standard introduction. His most important contribution to scholarship was his four-volume old-spelling \"Complete Works of John Webster\" (1927), the first collected edition of the Jacobean dramatist since that of Hazlitt the Younger (1857), itself an inferior copy of Dyce (1830). Eliot called Lucas \"the perfect annotator\", and subsequent Webster scholars have been indebted to him, notably the editors of the new Cambridge Webster (1995–2007).\n\nLucas is also remembered for his anti-fascist campaign in the 1930s, and for his wartime work at Bletchley Park, for which he received the OBE.\n\nF. L. (\"Peter\") Lucas grew up in Blackheath and was educated at Colfe's, where his father F. W. Lucas (1860–1931) was headmaster, and from 1910 at Rugby, where he was tutored by the Sophocles scholar Robert Whitelaw (1843–1917) in his last year before retirement. He won a scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1913 to read for the Classical Tripos, adding the Pitt Scholarship and the Porson Prize in 1914. In January 1914 he was elected Apostle – the last Apostle elected before the War – coming under the influence of G. E. Moore. Believing Cambridge threatened with the fate of Louvain, he volunteered, aged 19, in October 1914 and was commissioned in November, serving from 1915 as second lieutenant in the 7th Battalion The Royal West Kent Regiment in France. From August 1915 he was in the Somme trenches opposite Fricourt and Mametz; he was wounded by shrapnel in May 1916. He returned to the front as lieutenant in January 1917, went into battle near Grandcourt on 17 February in the Ancre Offensive, was mentioned in despatches on 22 February, and was gassed on 4 March. In all he spent seventeen months in war-hospitals. By September 1917 he felt that the cause of honour and justice had been lost in the lust of Victory (\"We were too ready to go on fighting without offering terms\" ). Passed fit for garrison duty at Chatham, he sought the help of fellow-Apostle John Maynard Keynes to return to France, and from August 1918 to the Armistice he was Staff lieutenant in the Intelligence Corps (Third Army HQ), examining German prisoners near Bapaume and Le Quesnoy. His life hung in the balance in November 1918 shortly after the Armistice, when his lung wounds reopened in the influenza pandemic. He returned to Cambridge in January 1919. Fell-walking in the Lake District \"on Easter morning [1919] on Kidsty Pike, between Hawes Water and Hayes Water, a blinding spring sun on snowy ridge beyond ridge, from Fairfield to Blucathra, brought a moment of such ecstatic intoxication that, were I a mystic, I should have called it a mystical experience.\"\n\nResuming his undergraduate studies, Lucas won a Chancellor's Medal for Classics and the Browne Medal (1920), and revived meetings of the Apostles, suspended since 1914, becoming Society Secretary and contributing nineteen papers. He was elected to a Fellowship at King's College in 1920 before he had completed his degree, Keynes paying for him to holiday in Greece with Sebastian Sprott on the eve of his Tripos. He took a starred first and began his career as a Classics lecturer in October 1920. In the spring of 1921 he spent three months in Greece as a student of the British School at Athens, researching the site of the Battle of Pharsalus in Thessaly (see Pharsalus below). Back in Cambridge he switched that year to teaching for the English Tripos (instituted in 1919). He was a member of the Cambridge University English Faculty from 1921–1939 and from 1945–1962, and a University Reader in English from 1947–1962. At the invitation of Desmond MacCarthy, literary editor of the \"New Statesman\", Lucas reviewed poetry and criticism for that journal from 1922 to 1926, having begun his career as reviewer with the \"Athenaeum\" in 1920–21, its last year. Early reviews and essays were collected in his \"Authors Dead and Living\" (1926). Among them was a review of Housman's \"Last Poems\" (1922) that, unusually, met with the approval of the poet himself. His move from Classics to English and his edition of Webster (1927) were inspired in large part by J. T. Sheppard's March 1920 Marlowe Society production of \"The White Devil\", which made a powerful impression on him: \"What could make the Cambridge production of \"The White Devil\" in 1920 seem, to at least two who saw it then without preconceptions, the most staggering performance they had ever known?\" he asked in the \"New Statesman\". \"[Lucas] has been lucky in finding a writer [Webster] who takes his standpoint,\" T. E. Lawrence remarked, \"and sums up life rather in his fashion.\" Lucas' preference, however, lay with Comparative Literature, and after Webster he turned to his \"Studies French and English\" (1934; revised 1950) (he was \"Membre Correspondant Honoraire de L'Institut Littéraire et Artistique de France\" ), and later to studies of Scandinavian literature. He served as committee member for the Cambridge Greek Play (1921–33) and continued to write on Greek and Latin literature. As part-time Librarian at King's (1922–36) he accessioned the donated papers of Rupert Brooke. His students at King's included George Rylands, John Hayward, F. E. Halliday, H. C. A. \"Tom\" Gaunt, Alan Clutton-Brock, Julian Bell, Winton Dean and Desmond Flower. By Cambridge English students in general he was known as \"F. L.\". \nFollowing the publication of his Webster, scholars turned to him for editorial advice: he helped in the preparation of Hayward's Nonesuch \"Donne\" (1929), Housman's \"More Poems\" (1936), Theodore Redpath's \"Songs and Sonets of John Donne\" (1956), and Ingram and Redpath's \"Shakespeare's Sonnets\" (1964). He also performed an editorial and advisory role for Christopher Sandford at the Golden Cockerel Press, where he introduced Victor Scholderer's New Hellenic typeface (1937). A number of his verse translations from Greek and Latin, with engravings by John Buckland Wright, were published in collectors' editions by the Golden Cockerel Press and Folio Society. In the middle years of his career he was in demand as an invitation lecturer, giving seven BBC wireless talks in 1930, on Dorothy Osborne and on the Victorian Poets, delivering the 1933 Warton Lecture on English Poetry to the British Academy, lecturing at the Royal Institution on Classicism and Romanticism (1935) and at the Royal Society of Literature on travel writing (1937), and, as part of a British Council drive to counter Soviet propaganda, lecturing in German on European literature to packed halls at the British Information Centre in West Berlin in October 1948 during the Berlin Blockade.\n\nIn later years Lucas won acclaim for his translations from the classics (see Verse translation below) and for his book \"Style\" (1955). He also turned encyclopedist, contributing articles on 'Poetry', 'Epic', 'Lyric', 'Ode', 'Elegy' and 'Pastoral' to the 15-volume 1950 Chambers's Encyclopaedia, among others, and serving on the editorial board of the Encyclopædia Britannica's \"Great Books of the Western World\" series (1952). As he told Nikos Kazantzakis, who visited him in Cambridge after the War, \"Je ne lis plus; je relis\" [:I no longer read; I reread].\n\nFor Lucas's anti-fascist campaign in the Thirties and his wartime service in Intelligence, see Appeasement and Bletchley Park below.\n\nFrom February 1921 to 1929 Lucas was married to the novelist E. B. C. Jones (1893–1966), known as \"Topsy\" to her friends. She was the sister-in-law of his former supervisor at Trinity, Donald Robertson; he got to know her after reading and admiring her first novel, \"Quiet Interior\" (1920). Jones dedicated two novels to Lucas and based two characters on him – Hugh Sexton, gassed in the War, in \"The Singing Captives\" (1922), and Oliver in \"The Wedgwood Medallion\" (1923), a Cambridge classics graduate now studying the Elizabethan drama. Lucas based the character Margaret Osborne in \"The River Flows\" (1926) on her – a semi-autobiographical first novel that shifts some of his experiences of 1919–1920 to 1913–1915. The character Hugh Fawcett (\"the best brain in the Foreign Office\" but not much use as a matchmaker) was based on Keynes. Through the Apostles Lucas was associated with the Bloomsbury Group, Virginia Woolf describing him to Ottoline Morrell as \"pure Cambridge: clean as a breadknife, and as sharp\". To Lucas, interviewed in 1958, Bloomsbury had seemed \"a jungle\":\n\nJones's admiration for George Rylands undermined the marriage by 1927. After affairs with Dora Carrington (d.1932) and Shelagh Clutton-Brock (d.1936), in December 1932 Lucas married the 21-year-old Girton Classics graduate and sculptor Prudence Wilkinson (1911–1944). His travel writings, accounts of their long walks through landscapes with literary associations, date from the years of his second marriage (1932–1939): \"From Olympus to the Styx\" (1934), a book on their 1933 walking tour of Greece (one of five journeys he made to that country), 'Iceland', a travelogue on their 1934 journey to the saga sites, included in the original edition of his \"The Decline and Fall of the Romantic Ideal\" (1936); and journal-entries on their visits to Norway, Ireland, Scotland, and France. In these years they were frequent visitors to the home in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence of Marie Mauron, whose Provençal stories Lucas translated. \"From Olympus to the Styx\" argues for the return of the Elgin Marbles:\nPrudence Lucas, as well as sharing these interests, designed the costumes and sets for the first production (1938) of his Icelandic tragedy \"The Lovers of Gudrun\". Her nervous breakdown in 1938 is touched on in Lucas's \"Journal Under the Terror, 1938\" (1939); Lucas sought help from, among others, Wilhelm Stekel, whom he met in London in 1939, but the rift proved irreparable. The emphasis on psychology in his post-war books – \"Literature and Psychology\" (1951), \"Style\" (1955), \"The Search for Good Sense\" (1958), \"The Art of Living\" (1959), the essay on 'Happiness' in \"The Greatest Problem\" (1960), \"The Drama of Ibsen and Strindberg\" (1962) – reflects an interest shared with his third wife (1940–1967), the Swedish psychologist Elna Kallenberg (1906-2003), whom he married in 1940 – \"the stranger who came to me from beyond the sea when I most needed her\" (Elna Kallenberg had flown from Sweden, with special permission from the Home Office, to join him in late 1939). They had two children, Signe and Sigurd.\n\nLucas returned time and again in his books to the theme of happiness, and in 1960 summed up his thoughts on happiness thus:\n\nF. L. Lucas lived at 7 Camden Place, Cambridge, from 1921–25; at 20 West Road, Cambridge from 1925–39; at High Mead, Great Brickhill from 1939–45; and again at 20 West Road, Cambridge, from 1945 until his death in 1967. The dissident Czech academic (1895–1974), Lucas's Prague correspondent in 1938-39 (see Appeasement below) and a concentration camp survivor, celebrated his restoration, during the Prague Spring of 1968, to his Chair of English at Prague, by giving a course of lectures on Webster in memory of Lucas, whose support for the Czech cause in 1938–39 had not been forgotten.\n\nD. W. Lucas, the classical scholar (1905–85), Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, University Director of Studies in Classics, and Perceval Maitland Laurence Reader in Classics, was F. L. Lucas's brother.\n\nExcept in reviews of work by contemporaries, early examples of which appear in \"Authors Dead and Living\" (1926), Lucas adopted the historical and biographical approach to criticism and examined the views of earlier critics, whose dogmatism he was swift to rebut. He increasingly linked his studies to developments in Psychology, notably in \"Literature and Psychology\" (1951). \"The real 'unwritten laws',\" he observed, \"seem to me those of human psychology.\" Centrally, he discussed the writer's psychology as revealed through style. \"Even science has invented no pickle for embalming a man like \"style\",\" he noted.\n\nThe poets to whom he returned most often in publications were Tennyson (1930, 1932, 1947, 1957) and Housman (1926, 1933, 1936, 1960), but he ranged widely over Classical, European and English literature. Conscious that books can influence for good or ill, he admired authors he saw as defenders of sanity and good sense – men like Montaigne and Montesquieu – or as compassionate realists, like Homer in the \"Iliad\", Euripides, Hardy, Ibsen and Chekhov. \"Life is 'indivisible',\" he wrote.\nHis criticism, while acknowledging that morality is historically relative, was thus values-based. \"Writers can make men \"feel\", not merely see, the values that endure.\" Believing that too many modern writers encouraged men and women to flee to unreason, decadence and barbarism, he condemned the \"trahisons des clercs\" of the twentieth century, and used his lectures and writing to campaign for a responsible use of intellectual freedom. \"One may question whether real civilisation is so safely afloat,\" he wrote in his last published letter (1966), \"that we can afford to use our pens for boring holes in the bottom of it.\" The writer or artist serving up \"slapdash nightmares out of his Unconscious\", \"in an age morbidly avid of uncivilised irreticence\", not only exhibited his own neuroses, but fed neurosis in others. Literary critics, too, had to take more responsibility. \"Much cant gets talked,\" he noted of the Structuralists, \"by critics who care more for the form and organisation of a work than for its spirit, its content, its supreme moments.\" The serious note in his criticism was counterbalanced by wit and urbanity, by lively anecdote and quotation, and by a gift for startling imagery and epigram.\n\nWhat Lucas wrote about Housman's \"Name and Nature of Poetry\" in 1933 (though he contested some of its ideas) sums up what he himself aspired to as a literary critic: \"… the kind of critical writing that best justifies itself before the brevity of life; that itself adds new data to our experience as well as arguing about the old; that happily combines, in a word, philosophy with autobiography, psychology with a touch of poetry – of the ‘poetic’ imagination. It can make acceptable even common sense. There are sentences here which recall the clear-cut Doric strength of the \"Lives of the Poets\" ...\"\n\nHis Cambridge colleague T. R. Henn noted that Lucas's approach and style were influenced by the Strachey of \"Books and Characters\" (1922).\n\nLucas's impatience with the \"obscurantism\" and coterie-appeal of much modern poetry made him in the interwar years one of the foremost opponents of the new schools. \"As for 'profundity',\" he wrote, \"it is not uncommonly found also in dry wells; which may likewise contain little but obscurity and rubbish.\" He opposed also what he saw as the narrow dogmatism of the New Critics, those \"tight-lipped Calvins of art\", as he called them, of \"Criterion\" and \"Scrutiny\". Discussions of I. A. Richards's criticism appear in his essay 'English Literature' in the volume \"University Studies: Cambridge 1933\" and in Chapter 4 of his \"Decline and Fall of the Romantic Ideal\" (1936), and of Eliot's in the 1929 essay 'Modern Criticism', reprinted in his \"Studies French and English\" (1934). An anonymous \"New Statesman\" review (29 December 1928) of Eliot's criticism, however, to which F. R. Leavis replied apparently believing it was by Lucas, and which Leavis's biographer says \"was certainly by Lucas\", was in fact by Richard Ellis Roberts. Lucas had stopped reviewing for the \"New Statesman\" in 1926 and never reviewed anonymously. His critique of Q. D. Leavis's \"Fiction and the Reading Public\" (1932) in \"University Studies: Cambridge 1933\" was described by F. R. Leavis's biographer as \"improper\": \"senior academics do not use quasi-official publications to attack graduate students\". (The volume, though printed by the University Press, was not published there; its editor stressed that the contributions were \"unofficial\" glimpses into the \"intense mental activity\" of each Cambridge department; and published theses are not normally considered exempt from criticism.)\n\nLucas's 1923 review of \"The Waste Land\", much reprinted in the decades since his death, was omitted from his \"Authors Dead and Living\" (1926), a collection of \"New Statesman\" pieces, probably because he had ended by saying the poem should be left to sink. Remarks elsewhere confirm that he had not changed his opinion. Described by F. W. Bateson as \"brilliantly wrong-headed\", the review is better known today than it was during Lucas's lifetime. His only other comment on the poem occurs in his essay 'English Literature' in the volume \"University Studies: Cambridge 1933\", where he contested I. A. Richards' view of it in \"Science and Poetry\" (1926): \"\"The Waste Land\" is praised [by Richards] for its 'complete severence' from \"'all\" beliefs', when it is really a yearning cry for them, and at its close some sort of faith is so clearly impending that it has been praised by others as a great religious poem (such are the triumphs of obscurity).\" \"The Letters of T. S. Eliot\" includes correspondence between Eliot and Lucas but no reference to the review. Historians of \"The New Statesman\" have regretted that Desmond MacCarthy invited Lucas to review modern poetry, one of them declaring Lucas \"a disastrous choice\" for a \"Waste Land\" review. (Disastrous, that is, for the journal's avant-garde image.) After 1923, though attacking obscurantism in general terms, Lucas largely ignored Eliot's poetry, aside from a retrospective dig in 1942 at 'The Hollow Men' (\"hollow men whimpering under prickly pear trees, conceited still amid their grovellings because a prickly pear remains an exotic and highly intellectual plant\" ) and at 'Sweeney among the Nightingales' (\"the nightingales of Aeschylus now exhibit to a ravished public their 'droppings'; for to the sewer all things are sewer\" ). On the later Eliot he was silent. He had no time for mystical poetry, regarding religion as an aberration of the human mind.\n\nIn 1928 Lucas had been stung by Eliot's review in the \"Times Literary Supplement\" criticising aspects of the Introduction to his \"Webster\". He replied vigorously in the same journal, only to find Eliot extending his criticisms in another review in \"The Criterion\". Lucas counter-attacked in his 1929 essay 'Modern Criticism', ridiculing Eliot's literary-critical \"obiter dicta\" and hieratic tone. In later impressions of his essays, Eliot made minor changes or added clarifications to sentences Lucas had ridiculed, and praised the textual and historical scholarship of the 1927 \"Webster\". Lucas left the Introduction out of his 1958 revised editions of the two major plays, but demand for the unabridged 1927 \"Webster\" continued, and it was reprinted on both sides of the Atlantic in 1966.\n\nLucas's standing as a literary critic was probably at its highest in the 1930s. \"In three respects,\" wrote the \"Times Literary Supplement\" in 1934, \"Lucas rises pre-eminent from the crowd of contemporary critics: in his care for style, for dignity and grace in his method of presentment: in his learning in the literature of several languages: and in the balance, the sanity of his judgment.\" Post-war, reviewers were often more hostile. Many post-war reviews amounted to reprisals by the Leavisite camp: \"There is an air of breezy Bloomsbury superficiality and cultural omniscience about this book that is distressing,\" wrote one. \"His is the type of over-cultivated fuddy-duddy mind that has done – and is doing – great damage to our whole culture in general and to literary appreciation in particular.\" Probably because, psychoanalytic literary criticism aside, Lucas scorned most new trends – he described the critical theory of the 1950s as \"largely pseudo-scientific bubble-blowing\" – his criticism has long been out of fashion and is mostly out of print. \n\"The literary world has passed on,\" wrote L. P. Wilkinson, \"but that does not mean that what supervened was better; and just because of his uncompromising brilliance the whirligig of time may bring in his criticism again. His \"Style\" (1955) has a permanent value in any case, unaffected by trends.\" \"Style\" is now back in print (2012). His two earliest books, \"Seneca and Elizabethan Tragedy\" (1922) (his Fellowship dissertation) and \"Euripides and His Influence\" (1923), not yet superseded in similar concise form, continue to be reprinted. The editors of the new Cambridge Webster (1995–2007) praise \"his customary accuracy and astuteness\" in matters of dating, authorship, and textual scholarship. \"With its voluminous and marvellously wide-ranging notes,\" writes D. C. Gunby, \"Lucas's four-volume, old-spelling edition remains essential reading for those who love scholarship and, more, love the plays of John Webster\".\n\nLucas dedicated much of his time to making classical (mainly Greek) poetry accessible to modern readers through verse translations. His companion volumes \"Greek Poetry for Everyman\" (1951) and \"Greek Drama for Everyman\" (1954) contain some 20,000 lines. No single translator had attempted before to bring together in homogeneous volumes so much of the best of Greek poetry from Homer to the 6th century A.D., with the introductions and notes needed by the non-classicist. The translations were praised for their grace and fidelity – \"the sense and the imagery are minutely reproduced\" (\"The Classical Review\" ) – and were hailed by the press as Cambridge's single-handed answer to the [collaborative] \"Oxford Book of Greek Verse in Translation\". Lucas's versions, however, presuppose a taste for a poetic style closer to Morris than to Pound. Reviewers generally preferred his translations of lyric, Alexandrian and later poetry to the 7,000 rhymed lines from Homer, which were omitted from the second edition (Everyman Library, 1966). \"Lucas makes the plays deceptively easy to read and appreciate,\" wrote a reviewer of the second volume, \"by smoothing away the austerities and complexities of the Greek – qualities which some modernists conscientiously preserve or even exaggerate.\" The translation of \"Hippolytus\" remains in print in the Penguin selection, \"Eight Great Tragedies\", ed. Sylvan Barnet.\n\nOf Lucas's novels the best received was \"Cécile\" (1930), a tale of love, society and politics in the France of 1775–1776. Lucas dedicated the book to T. E. Lawrence, a friend and admirer. He wrote two further historical novels, \"Doctor Dido\" (1938), set in Cambridge in 1792–1812, and \"The English Agent: A Tale of the Peninsular War\" (1969), set in Spain in 1808; and a novella, \"The Woman Clothed with the Sun\" (1937), on the Buchanites of the 1780s–90s. The three novels focus on a love-affair between an Englishman and a Frenchwoman (Lucas was a self-confessed \"gallomane\"); the Scots novella takes the form of an account, written by a Scottish minister in middle age, of his youthful bewitchment by Elspeth Buchan and of his curious sojourn among the Buchanites. A theme common to all four is the tension between fragile 18th-century rationalism and, in varying forms, Romantic \"enthusiasm\" and unreason. For his semi-autobiographical first novel, \"The River Flows\" (1926), see Personal Life above.\n\nAs a poet Lucas was a polished ironist. Early collections (\"Time and Memory\", 1929, \"Marionettes\", 1930, \"Poems, 1935\") were mostly personal lyrics or satires, but he came to specialise in dramatic monologues and narrative poems based on historical episodes \"that seem lastingly alive\" (\"From Many Times and Lands\", 1953). His First World War poems, including \"'Morituri\" – August 1915, on the road from Morlancourt' (1935) and (below) ' \"The Night is Chilly but not Dark\" ' (1935), offer a retrospect of his experiences at the front.\n\nThe inclusion of 'Beleaguered Cities' (1929) in various mid-twentieth century anthologies of English verse made it probably Lucas's best-known poem. Others that have gained currency through anthologies include 'The Destined Hour' (1953), a re-telling in verse of the old 'appointment in Samarra' fable, and 'Spain 1809', the story of a village woman's courage during the French occupation in the Peninsular War. His most ambitious poem was \"Ariadne\" (1932), an epic re-working of the Labyrinth myth, extracts from which were read on the BBC Home Service in 1934. Simon Tidworth in \"The Quest for Theseus\" summarises: \"Lucas invents another sweetheart for Theseus, Aegle, one of the sacrificial maidens who accompany him to Crete. The real stroke of originality is to make the Minotaur Minos himself in a bull-mask. On Naxos Ariadne learns of Theseus's earlier love for Aegle, and decides to leave him while the image of her own love is still fresh. An ordinary love-affair is not what she wants; she has to seek the Ideal [Dionysus].\" \n\nLucas's most successful play was the thriller \"Land's End\", set in Cornwall in the mid-1930s (Westminster Theatre, February–March 1938, 29 performances, with Cathleen Nesbitt, Cecil Trouncer and Alan Napier among the cast) – \"as full of drama as an egg is full of meat\", noted \"The Stage\". One of Paul Scofield's earliest roles was in the Birmingham Rep's revival of the play in March–April 1945. Lucas's radio play \"The Siren\" was first broadcast on the BBC Third Programme in 1948, with Catherine Lacey, Frith Banbury and Deryck Guyler in the cast; a second production followed on the Home Service in 1949, with Cathleen Nesbitt and Hugh Burden. The play dramatises George Sand's amorous escapades in Paris and Italy with Alfred de Musset and Dr. Pietro Pagello – the subject of the 1999 film \"Les Enfants du Siècle\". His political drama \"The Bear Dances: A Play in Three Acts\" was the first dramatisation of the Soviets on London’s West-end stage (Garrick Theatre, 1932, with Elena Miramova, Abraham Sofaer and Olga Lindo). This play, though it closed early in London, was revived by various repertory theatres in the North of England in the later 1930s. It was an attempt at ideological disinfectant, written at a time when Cambridge University (in Lucas's words) \"grew full of very green young men going very Red\".\n\nOutside literature, Lucas is remembered for his solution to one of the more contentious problems of ancient topography. His \"north-bank\" thesis on the location of the Battle of Pharsalus (48 B.C.), based on his 1921 solo field-trip to Thessaly and on a re-examination of the sources, dismissed a dozen previous theories and is now widely accepted by historians. John D. Morgan in his definitive 'Palae-pharsalus – the Battle and the Town' writes: \"My reconstruction is similar to Lucas’s, and in fact I borrow one of his alternatives for the line of the Pompeian retreat. Lucas’s theory has been subjected to many criticisms, but has remained essentially unshaken.\"\n\nIn the 1930s Lucas was widely known for his political letters to the British Press with their outspoken attacks on the policy that came to be known as appeasement. Following the inaction of the League over Manchuria, he called repeatedly for \"a League within the League\", of nations pledged to uphold international law and oppose aggression. \"Since the War,\" he wrote in 1933, \"British policy has been shuffling, timid, ignoble.\" Having read \"Mein Kampf\" in the unexpurgated original and taken its threats as a statement of intent, he urged in September 1933 that Nazi Germany be prevented from re-arming. \"Versailles was monstrous\", he wrote in \"The Week-end Review\",\nA hatred of war, he argued in 1936, \"can be no reason for being false to ourselves, in the name of an aimless amiability that cries ‘peace’ where there is none.\" And in 1937: \"We have not kept agreements we made; we have made agreements we should not; we have tried to cheat our way to security, and now the security proves a cheat. We have forgotten the wisdom which says that since we cannot foresee where any road will lead in the end, we should stick to the straight and honest one.\" Despite the prevailing pacifism of the time – and he exchanged views with \"passive pacifists\" in the correspondence-columns – such sentiments struck a chord. \"This is the voice of the England I love,\" wrote a correspondent from Prague in 1938, \"and for whose soul I was trembling when I heard about the welcome given Mr Chamberlain on his return from Munich.\" Not everyone admired the letters, however: the pro-appeasement \"Times\" refused to publish him after 1935 (he described the Editor's office as \"an annexe of the German embassy\"), and when he condemned the Italian invasion of Abyssinia and the democracies' inadequate response, he received abusive and threatening replies from Fascists, including one from Ezra Pound. Lucas put Pound's letter on display at the Cambridge Anti-Fascist Exhibition. \nAs well as letters to the press (some forty in all) his campaign included satires, articles, books, public speaking, fund-raising for the Red Cross, petitions to Parliament, meetings with émigrés like Haile Selassie and Stefan Zweig, and help for refugees. In these activities he was inspired by the example of \"that grand old man\" H. W. Nevinson, \"one of the most striking personalities I have ever known\", \"whose long life has been given to Liberty\".\n\nBelieving that future readers would be interested in what it had been like to live through such times, Lucas kept and published in March 1939 a\ndiary for 1938, \"Journal Under the Terror, 1938\". (The \"high source\" he refers to in \"Journal\" was probably Harold Nicolson.) \"Journal\" is notable for its candid remarks on pro-Nazi and pro-appeasement figures in the British Establishment. Of Chamberlain at Munich he wrote (30 September):\n\nThe outcome he feared was an Anglo-German peace agreement – an accord between Nazis and the British Establishment: \"One day a little note from Berchtesgaden will appoint Lord Londonderry to 10 Downing Street. And that will settle everything.\" Though he welcomed the Government's about-turn on appeasement in March 1939, he doubted the genuineness of the conversion. \"The noble lords of our Fifth Column still go marching on.\" \nThe Nazis had noted Lucas's letters. In August 1939 he received a reply from Goebbels, advising him to heed public opinion. As a leading anti-fascist campaigner, he was placed by the Nazis on their \"Sonderfahndungsliste G.B.\" [:\"Special Search List G.B.\"] of Britons to be arrested and liquidated.\n\nA brilliant linguist with infantry and Intelligence Corps experience from 1914–18, proven anti-fascist credentials and a scepticism about the Soviet Union, Lucas was one of the first academics recruited by the Foreign Office – on 3 September 1939 – to Bletchley Park. He was one of the original four members of Hut 3, whose organisation he set up, and from March to July 1942, when the Hut was run by committee, acting head. He remained a central figure there, working throughout the war on the Enigma decodes as translator, intelligence-analyst and (from July 1942) head of the Research Section, \"3G\" [:Hut 3 General Intelligence], on the busy 4 p.m. to 1 a.m. shift. His main activities in \"3G\" were cracking Axis covernames and covernumbers in decodes, analysing German \"proformas\" (supplies and ammunition returns), and writing general intelligence papers.\n\nAmong the intelligence-reports he produced was a study of Hitler's intentions in the east in May 1941, which contrasted with the Foreign Office view that the Germans were just \"building up pressure [on the U.S.S.R.] to extract more raw materials\". \"It becomes harder than ever to doubt,\" Lucas wrote,\n\nOther Lucas papers ranged from practical suggestions, such as the proposal that the Salonica-Athens railway be cut in the Oeta gorges viaducts (carried out in Operation Harling), to psychological overviews later in the war, like 'Hitler as seen by Source' [:through decodes] and 'German Morale as seen by Source' (his old special subject from 1918 Intelligence Corps days).\nHe also wrote confidential Special Reports for the Bletchley Park Director-General, one on Second Front rumours in German signals, and another, with Peter Calvocoressi, in early 1945 on the failure of Allied intelligence to foresee the German counter-offensive through the Ardennes in December 1944. Lucas and Calvocoressi concluded that \"the costly reverse might have been avoided if Ultra had been more carefully considered\". For its part, Hut 3 had grown \"shy of going beyond its job of amending and explaining German messages\", believing that \"drawing broad conclusions was for the intelligence staff at SHAEF, who had information from all sources\", including aerial reconnaissance. E. J. N. Rose, head Air Adviser in Hut 3, read the paper at the time and described it in 1998 as \"an extremely good report\" that \"showed the failure of intelligence at SHAEF and at the Air Ministry\". The report is not known to have survived. It was probably the \"Top Secret [intelligence] digest\", a post-mortem on that failure, referred to by General Strong (1968), \"both record-copies of which were destroyed\". Lucas and Calvocoressi \"expected heads to roll at Eisenhower's HQ, but they did no more than wobble\".\n\nThe most \"exciting\" work he did at Bletchley Park, he recalled, was handling operational signals on Axis convoys to North Africa from July 1941 and deducing convoys' routes using decrypts, maps, pins and pieces of string. The high standards of accuracy and clarity that prevailed in Hut 3, his chief maintained, were \"largely due to [Lucas's] being such a stickler\" for them.\n\nIn out-of-hut hours Major Lucas was Officer Commanding the Bletchley Park Home Guard, a \"rabble of egg-heads\" that he turned, contrary to stereotype, into an efficient unit that outwitted the local regular forces in military exercises. From June 1945 to the end of the War he was head of the Hut 3 History Section, compiling a 'History of Hut 3', now documents HW3/119 and HW3/120 in the National Archives. He was awarded the OBE in 1946 for his wartime work.\n\nIn later years Lucas took up the cause of population-control, \"a problem not talked about nearly enough\", discussing the dangers of world overpopulation in \"The Greatest Problem\" (1960). Having laid out the statistics to 1959 and future projections, he argued that the \"reckless proliferation\" of \"homo sapiens\", as well as impoverishing the world by environmental damage and species-extinctions, would be damaging to the individual and to society:\n\nIf population-growth went unchecked, he felt, \"the damage to national efficiency might drive governments to act more intelligently\"; but better would be \"a concentrated drive for population-planning, despite the formidable practical, scientific and psychological obstacles\". \"Far more, however,\" he added, \"depends on the individual and his power to realise his own plight. Hence the need for constant and frank discussion, instead of leaving the subject, as now, in a conspiracy of uneasy silence; and the need for patient and tireless propaganda against man's reckless propagation.\"\nHe singled out the Vatican for particular criticism. \"Common sense percolates,\" he had written in 1934, \"despite the Roman Church; which with its half-cynical sense of reality will doubtless end by swallowing the inevitable, as with Copernicus and Darwin, and evolve some doctrine of Immaculate Contraception.\" He later pointed out the illogicality of the doctrine declaring it lawful to juggle with the calendar but otherwise unlawful to practise contraception.\n\nHe was not optimistic about post-war immigration to the UK, believing that in the modern world the problem of over-breeding was not solved by migration, which in turn could bring new social problems. \"Persons of liberal principles are shocked if one views this influx with misgiving. But the advantages are far from certain. Principles, however liberal, are no substitute for common sense.\"\n\nIn \"Literature and Psychology\" (1951) he had conjectured that the end of civilisation might come, not from war or famine, but from a decay of man's intelligence and self-control under the strain of a too artificial way of life. His only science-fiction story, 'Last Act' (1937), set in a not-too-distant future, had depicted the beginning of the end for \"the desolator, Man\", in an overpopulated, over-technological, and rapidly overheating biosphere.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "142721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=142721", "title": "Ferdinand Marcos", "text": "Ferdinand Marcos\n"}
{"id": "11431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11431", "title": "Fernando Pessoa", "text": "Fernando Pessoa\n\nFernando António Nogueira Pessoa (; 13 June 1888 – 30 November 1935), commonly known as Fernando Pessoa, was a Portuguese poet, writer, literary critic, translator, publisher and philosopher, described as one of the most significant literary figures of the 20th century and one of the greatest poets in the Portuguese language. He also wrote in and translated from English and French.\n\nPessoa was a prolific writer, and not only under his own name, for he dreamed up approximately seventy-five others. He did not call them \"pseudonyms\" because he felt that did not capture their true independent intellectual life and instead called them \"heteronyms\". These imaginary figures sometimes held unpopular or extreme views.\n\nPessoa was born in Lisbon on 13 June 1888. When Pessoa was five, his father, Joaquim de Seabra Pessôa, died of tuberculosis and the following year, on 2 January, his younger brother Jorge, aged one, also died.\n\nAfter the second marriage of his mother, Maria Magdalena Pinheiro Nogueira, proxy wedding to João Miguel dos Santos Rosa, Fernando sailed with his mother for South Africa in the beginning of 1896, to join his stepfather, a military officer appointed Portuguese consul in Durban, capital of the former British Colony of Natal. Later on, in 1918, Pessoa wrote a letter in which refers:\n\nThe young Pessoa received his early education at St. Joseph Convent School, a Catholic grammar school run by Irish and French nuns. He moved to the Durban High School in April 1899, becoming fluent in English and developing an appreciation for English literature. During the Matriculation Examination, held at the time by the University of the Cape of Good Hope (forerunner of the University of Cape Town), in November 1903 he was awarded the recently created Queen Victoria Memorial Prize for best paper in English. While preparing to enter university, he also attended the Durban Commercial High School during one year, in the evening shift.\n\nMeanwhile, Pessoa started writing short stories in English, some under the name of David Merrick, many of which he left unfinished. At the age of sixteen, \"The Natal Mercury\" (edition of 6 July 1904) published his poem \"Hillier did first usurp the realms of rhyme...\", under the name of C. R. Anon (anonymous), along with a brief introductory text: \"I read with great amusement...\". In December, \"The Durban High School Magazine\" published his essay \"Macaulay\". From February to June 1905, in the section \"The Man in the Moon\", \"The Natal Mercury\" also published at least four sonnets by Fernando Pessoa: \"Joseph Chamberlain\", \"To England I\", \"To England II\" and \"Liberty\". His poems often carried humorous versions of Anon as the author's name. Pessoa started using pen names quite young. The first one, still in his childhood, was Chevalier de Pas, supposedly a French noble. In addition to Charles Robert Anon and David Merrick, the young writer also signed up, among other pen names, as Horace James Faber, Alexander Search, and other meaningful names.\n\nIn the preface to \"The Book of Disquiet\", Pessoa wrote about himself:\n\nThe young Pessoa was described by a schoolfellow as follows:\nTen years after his arrival, he sailed for Lisbon via the Suez Canal on board the \"Herzog\", leaving Durban for good at the age of seventeen. This journey inspired the poems \"Opiário\" (dedicated to his friend, the poet and writer Mário de Sá-Carneiro) published in March 1915, in \"Orpheu\" nr.1 and \"Ode Marítima\" (dedicated to the futurist painter Santa-Rita Pintor) published in June 1915, in \"Orpheu\" nr.2 by his heteronym Álvaro de Campos.\n\nWhile his family remained in South Africa, Pessoa returned to Lisbon in 1905 to study diplomacy. After a period of illness, and two years of poor results, a student strike against the dictatorship of Prime Minister João Franco put an end to his formal studies. Pessoa became an autodidact, a devoted reader who spent a lot of time at the library. In August 1907, he started working as a practitioner at R.G. Dun & Company, an American mercantile information agency (currently D&B, Dun & Bradstreet). His grandmother died in September and left him a small inheritance, which he spent on setting up his own publishing house, the \"Empreza Ibis\". The venture was not successful and closed down in 1910, but the name ibis, the sacred bird of Ancient Egypt and inventor of the alphabet in Greek mythology, would remain an important symbolic reference for him.\n\nPessoa returned to his uncompleted formal studies, complementing his British education with self-directed study of Portuguese culture. The pre-revolutionary atmosphere surrounding the assassination of King Charles I and Crown Prince Luís Filipe in 1908, and the patriotic outburst resulting from the successful republican revolution in 1910, influenced the development of the budding writer; as did his step-uncle, Henrique dos Santos Rosa, a poet and retired soldier, who introduced the young Pessoa to Portuguese poetry, notably the romantics and symbolists of the 19th century. In 1912, Fernando Pessoa entered the literary world with a critical essay, published in the cultural journal \"A Águia\", which triggered one of the most important literary debates in the Portuguese intellectual world of the 20th century: the polemic regarding a super-Camões. In 1915 a group of artists and poets, including Fernando Pessoa, Mário de Sá-Carneiro and Almada Negreiros, created the literary magazine \"Orpheu\", which introduced modernist literature to Portugal. Only two issues were published (Jan–Feb–Mar and Apr–May–Jun 1915), the third failed to appear due to funding difficulties. Lost for many years, this issue was finally recovered and published in 1984. Among other writers and poets, \"Orpheu\" published Pessoa, orthonym, and the modernist heteronym, Álvaro de Campos.\n\nAlong with the artist Ruy Vaz, Pessoa also founded the art journal \"Athena\" (1924–25), in which he published verses under the heteronyms Alberto Caeiro and Ricardo Reis. Along with his profession, as free-lance commercial translator, Fernando Pessoa undertook intense activity as a writer, literary critic and political analyst, contributing to the journals and newspapers \"A Águia\" (1912–13), \"A República\" (1913), \"Theatro\" (1913), \"A Renascença\" (1914), \"O Raio\" (1914), \"A Galera\" (1915), \"Orpheu\" (1915), \"O Jornal\" (1915), \"Eh Real!\" (1915), \"Exílio\" (1916), \"Centauro\" (1916), \"A Ideia Nacional\" (1916), \"Terra Nossa\" (1916), \"O Heraldo\" (1917), \"Portugal Futurista\" (1917), \"Acção\" (1919–20), \"Ressurreição\" (1920), \"Contemporânea\" (1922–26), \"Athena\" (1924–25), \"Diário de Lisboa\" (1924–35), \"Revista de Comércio e Contabilidade\" (1926), \"Sol\" (1926), \"O Imparcial\" (1927), \"Presença\" (1927–34), \"Revista Solução Editora\" (1929–1931), \"Notícias Ilustrado\" (1928–30), \"Girassol\" (1930), \"Revolução\" (1932), \"Descobrimento\" (1932), \"Fama\" (1932–33), \"Fradique\" (1934) and \"Sudoeste\" (1935).\n\nAfter his return to Portugal, when he was seventeen, Pessoa barely left his beloved city of Lisbon, which inspired the poems \"Lisbon Revisited\" (1923 and 1926), under the heteronym Álvaro de Campos. From 1905 to 1920, when his family returned from Pretoria after the death of his stepfather, he lived in fifteen different locations in the city, moving from one rented room to another depending on his fluctuating finances and personal troubles.\n\nPessoa adopted the detached perspective of the flâneur \"Bernardo Soares\", another of his heteronyms. This character was supposedly an accountant, working for \"Vasques\", the boss of an office located in Douradores Street. \"Soares\" also supposedly lived in the same downtown street, a world that Pessoa knew quite well due to his long career as freelance correspondence translator. Indeed, from 1907 until his death in 1935, Pessoa worked in twenty-one firms located in Lisbon's downtown, sometimes in two or three of them simultaneously. In \"The Book of Disquiet\", \"Bernardo Soares\" describes some of those typical places and its \"atmosphere\". In his daydream soliloquy he also wrote about Lisbon in the first half of 20th Century. \"Soares\" describes crowds in the streets, buildings, shops, traffic, river Tagus, the weather, and even its author, Fernando Pessoa:\n\nA statue of Pessoa sitting at a table (below) can be seen outside A Brasileira, one of the preferred places of young writers and artists of \"Orpheu\"'s group during the 1910s. This coffeehouse, in the aristocratic district of Chiado, is quite close to Pessoa's birthplace: 4, São Carlos Square (in front of the Opera House, where stands another statue of the writer), one of the most elegant neighborhoods of Lisbon. Later on, Pessoa was a frequent customer at Martinho da Arcada, a centennial coffeehouse in Comercio Square, surrounded by ministries, almost an \"office\" for his private business and literary concerns, where he used to meet friends in the 1920s and 1930s.\n\nIn 1925, Pessoa wrote in English a guidebook to Lisbon but it remained unpublished until 1992.\n\nPessoa translated a number of Portuguese books into English, and into Portuguese \"The Scarlet Letter\" by Nathaniel Hawthorne, and the short stories \"The Theory and the Hound\", \"The Roads We Take\" and \"Georgia's Ruling\" by O. Henry. Pessoa also translated into Portuguese the poetry \"Godiva\" by Alfred Tennyson, \"Lucy\" by William Wordsworth, \"Barbara Frietchie\" by John Greenleaf Whittier, \"Catarina to Camoens\" by Elizabeth Barrett Browning, and \"The Raven\", \"Annabel Lee\" and \"Ulalume\" by Edgar Allan Poe who, along with Walt Whitman, strongly influenced him.\n\nAs a translator, Pessoa had his own method:\n\nIn addition, Pessoa translated into Portuguese some books by the leading theosophists Helena Blavatsky, Charles Webster Leadbeater, Annie Besant, and Mabel Collins.\n\nIn 1912–14, while living with his aunt \"Anica\" and cousins, Pessoa took part in \"semi-spiritualist sessions\" that were carried out at home, but he was considered a \"delaying element\" by the other members of the session. Pessoa's interest in spiritualism was truly awakened in the second half of 1915, while translating theosophist books. This was further deepened in the end of March 1916, when he suddenly started having experiences where he became a medium, which were revealed through automatic writing. On 24 June, Pessoa wrote an impressive letter to his aunt and godmother, then living in Switzerland with her daughter and son in law, in which he describes this \"mystery case\" that surprised him.\n\nBesides automatic writing, Pessoa stated also that he had \"astral\" or \"etherial visions\" and was able to see \"magnetic auras\" similar to radiographic images. He felt \"more curiosity than fear\", but was respectful towards this phenomenon and asked secrecy, because \"there is no advantage, but many disadvantages\" in speaking about this. Mediumship exerted a strong influence in Pessoa's writings, who felt \"sometimes suddenly being owned by something else\" or having a \"very curious sensation\" in the right arm, which was \"lifted into the air\" without his will. Looking in the mirror, Pessoa saw several times what appeared to be the heteronyms: his \"face fading out\" and being replaced by the one of \"a bearded man\", or another one, four men in total.\n\nPessoa also developed a strong interest in astrology, becoming a competent astrologist. He elaborated more than 1,500 astrological charts, including well-known people like William Shakespeare, Lord Byron, Oscar Wilde, Chopin, Robespierre, Napoleon I, Benito Mussolini, Wilhelm II, Leopold II of Belgium, Victor Emmanuel III, Alfonso XIII, or the Kings Sebastian and Charles of Portugal, and Salazar. In 1915, he created the heteronym \"Raphael Baldaya\", an astrologist who planned to write \"System of Astrology\" and \"Introduction to the Study of Occultism\". Pessoa established the pricing of his astrological services from 500 to 5,000 réis and made horoscopes of customers, friends and also himself and, astonishingly, of the heteronyms and also of journals as \"Orpheu\".\n\nBorn on 13 June, Pessoa was native of Gemini and had Scorpio as rising sign. The characters of the main heteronyms were inspired by the four astral elements: air, fire, water and earth. It means that Pessoa and his heteronyms altogether comprised the full principles of ancient knowledge. Those heteronyms were designed according to their horoscopes, all including Mercury, the planet of literature. Astrology was part of his everyday life and Pessoa kept that interest until his death, which he was able to predict with some accuracy.\n\nAs a mysticist, Pessoa was an enthusiast of esotericism, occultism, hermetism, numerology and alchemy. Along with spiritualism and astrology, he also paid attention to neopaganism, theosophy, rosicrucianism and freemasonry, which strongly influenced his literary work. He has declared himself a Pagan, in the sense of an \"intellectual mystic of the sad race of the Neoplatonists from Alexandria\" and a believer in \"the Gods, their agency and their real and materially superior existence\". His interest in occultism led Pessoa to correspond with Aleister Crowley and later helped him to elaborate a fake suicide, when Crowley visited Portugal in 1930. Pessoa translated Crowley's poem \"Hymn To Pan\" into Portuguese, and the catalogue of Pessoa's library shows that he possessed Crowley's books \"Magick in Theory and Practice\" and \"Confessions\". Pessoa also wrote on Crowley's doctrine of Thelema in several fragments, including \"Moral\".\n\nPessoa's declared about secret societies:\n\nLiterary critic Martin Lüdke described Pessoa's philosophy as a kind of pandeism, especially those writings under the heteronym Alberto Caeiro.\n\nIn his early years, Pessoa was influenced by major English classic poets such as Shakespeare, Milton and Pope, or romantics like Shelley, Byron, Keats, Wordsworth, Coleridge and Tennyson. After his return to Lisbon in 1905, Pessoa was influenced by French symbolists and decadentists Charles Baudelaire, Maurice Rollinat, Stéphane Mallarmé; mainly by Portuguese poets as Antero de Quental, Gomes Leal, Cesário Verde, António Nobre, Camilo Pessanha or Teixeira de Pascoaes. Later on, he was also influenced by modernists as W. B. Yeats, James Joyce, Ezra Pound and T. S. Eliot, among many other writers.\n\nDuring World War I, Pessoa wrote to a number of British publishers, namely Constable & Co. Ltd. (currently Constable & Robinson), in order to print his collection of English verse \"The Mad Fiddler\" (unpublished during his lifetime), but it was refused. However, in 1920, the prestigious literary journal \"Athenaeum\" included one of those poems. Since the British publication failed, in 1918 Pessoa published in Lisbon two slim volumes of English verse: \"Antinous\" and \"35 Sonnets\", received by the British literary press without enthusiasm. Along with some friends, he founded another publishing house, Olisipo, which published in 1921 a further two English poetry volumes: \"English Poems I–II\" and \"English Poems III\" by Fernando Pessoa. In his publishing house, Olisipo, Pessoa issued also some books by his friends: \"A Invenção do Dia Claro\" (The invention of the clear day) by José de Almada Negreiros, \"Canções\" (Songs) by António Botto, and \"Sodoma Divinizada\" (Divinized Sodome) by Raul Leal (Henoch). Olisipo closed down in 1923, following the scandal known as \"Literatura de Sodoma\" (Literature of Sodome), which Pessoa started with his paper \"António Botto e o Ideal Estético em Portugal\" (António Botto and the aesthetical ideal in Portugal), published in the journal \"Contemporanea\".\n\nPolitically, Pessoa described himself as \"a British-style conservative, that is to say, liberal within conservatism and absolutely anti-reactionary,\" and adhered closely to the Spencerian individualism of his upbringing. He described his brand of nationalism as \"mystic, cosmopolitan, liberal, and anti-Catholic.\" He was an outspoken elitist and aligned himself against communism, socialism, fascism and Catholicism. He initially rallied to the First Portuguese Republic but the ensuing instability caused him to reluctantly support the military coups of 1917 and 1926 as a means of restoring order and preparing the transition to a new constitutional normality. He wrote a pamphlet in 1928 supportive of the military dictatorship but after the establishment of the New State, in 1933, Pessoa became disenchanted with the regime and wrote critically of Salazar and fascism in general, maintaining a hostile stance towards its corporatist program, illiberalism, and censorship. In the beginning of 1935, Pessoa was banned by the Salazar regime, after he wrote in defense of Freemasonry. The regime also suppressed two articles Pessoa wrote in which he condemned Mussolini's invasion of Abyssinia and fascism as a threat to human liberty everywhere. \n\nOn 29 November 1935, Pessoa was taken to the Hospital de São Luís, suffering from abdominal pain and a high fever; there he wrote, in English, his last words: \"I know not what tomorrow will bring.\" He died the next day, 30 November 1935, around 8 pm, aged 47. His cause of death is commonly given as cirrhosis of the liver, due to alcoholism, though this is disputed: others attribute his death to pancreatitis (again from alcoholism), or other ailments.\n\nIn his lifetime, he published four books in English and one alone in Portuguese: \"Mensagem\" (Message). However, he left a lifetime of unpublished, unfinished or just sketchy work in a domed, wooden trunk (25,574 manuscript and typed pages which have been housed in the Portuguese National Library since 1988). The heavy burden of editing this huge work is still in progress. In 1985 (fifty years after his death), Pessoa's remains were moved to the Hieronymites Monastery, in Lisbon, where Vasco da Gama, Luís de Camões, and Alexandre Herculano are also buried. Pessoa's portrait was on the 100-escudo banknote.\n\nPessoa's earliest heteronym, at the age of six, was Chevalier de Pas. Other childhood heteronyms included Dr. Pancrácio and David Merrick, followed by Charles Robert Anon, an English young man that became Pessoa's \"alter ego\". In 1905/7, when Pessoa was a student at the University of Lisbon, Alexander Search took the place of Anon. The main reason for this was that, although Search is English, he was born in Lisbon as his author. But Search represents a transition heteronym that Pessoa used while searching to adapt to the Portuguese cultural reality. After the republican revolution, in 1910, and consequent patriotic atmosphere, Pessoa created another \"alter ego\", Álvaro de Campos, supposedly a Portuguese naval engineer, born in Tavira and graduated in Glasgow. Translator Richard Zenith notes that Pessoa eventually established at least seventy-two heteronyms. According to Pessoa himself, there were three main heteronyms: Alberto Caeiro, Álvaro de Campos and Ricardo Reis. The heteronyms possess distinct biographies, temperaments, philosophies, appearances, writing styles and even signatures.\n\nPessoa wrote on the heteronyms:\n\nAlberto Caeiro was Pessoa's first great heteronym; it is summarized by Pessoa as follows: \"He sees things with the eyes only, not with the mind. He does not let any thoughts arise when he looks at a flower... the only thing a stone tells him is that it has nothing at all to tell him... this way of looking at a stone may be described as the totally unpoetic way of looking at it. The stupendous fact about Caeiro is that out of this sentiment, or rather, absence of sentiment, he makes poetry.\"\n\nWhat this means, and what makes Caeiro such an original poet is the way he apprehends existence. He does not question anything whatsoever; he calmly accepts the world as it is. The recurrent themes to be found in nearly all of Caeiro's poems are wide-eyed childlike wonder at the infinite variety of nature, as noted by a critic. He is free of metaphysical entanglements. Central to his world-view is the idea that in the world around us, all is surface: things are precisely what they seem, there is no hidden meaning anywhere.\n\nHe manages thus to free himself from the anxieties that batter his peers; for Caeiro, things simply exist and we have no right to credit them with more than that. Caeiro attains happiness by not questioning, and by thus avoiding doubts and uncertainties. He apprehends reality solely through his eyes, through his senses. Octavio Paz called him the innocent poet. Paz made a shrewd remark on the heteronyms: In each are particles of negation or unreality. Reis believes in form, Campos in sensation, Pessoa in symbols. Caeiro doesn't believe in anything. He exists.\n\nPoetry before Caeiro was essentially interpretative; what poets did was to offer an interpretation of their perceived surroundings; Caeiro does not do this. Instead, he attempts to communicate his senses, and his feelings, without any interpretation whatsoever.\n\nCaeiro attempts to approach Nature from a qualitatively different mode of apprehension; that of simply perceiving (an approach akin to phenomenological approaches to philosophy). Poets before him would make use of intricate metaphors to describe what was before them; not so Caeiro: his self-appointed task is to bring these objects to the reader's attention, as directly and simply as possible. Caeiro sought a direct experience of the objects before him.\n\nAs such it is not surprising to find that Caeiro has been called an anti-intellectual, anti-Romantic, anti-subjectivist, anti-metaphysical...an anti-poet, by critics; Caeiro simply—is. He is in this sense very unlike his creator Fernando Pessoa: Pessoa was besieged by metaphysical uncertainties; these were, to a large extent, the cause of his unhappiness; not so Caeiro: his attitude is anti-metaphysical; he avoided uncertainties by adamantly clinging to a certainty: his belief that there is no meaning behind things. Things, for him, simply—are.\n\nCaeiro represents a primal vision of reality, of things. He is the pagan incarnate. Indeed, Caeiro was not simply a pagan but paganism itself.\n\nThe critic Jane M. Sheets sees the insurgence of Caeiro—who was Pessoa's first major heteronym—as essential in founding the later poetic \"personas\": By means of this artless yet affirmative anti-poet, Caeiro, a short-lived but vital member of his coterie, Pessoa acquired the base of an experienced and universal poetic vision. After Caeiro's tenets had been established, the avowedly poetic voices of Campos, Reis and Pessoa himself spoke with greater assurance.\n\nIn a letter to William Bentley, Pessoa wrote that \"a \"knowledge\" of the language would be indispensable, for instance, to appraise the 'Odes' of Ricardo Reis, whose Portuguese would draw upon him the blessing of António Vieira, as his stile and diction that of Horace (he has been called, admirably I believe, 'a Greek Horace who writes in Portuguese')\".\n\nReis, both a character and a heteronym of Fernando Pessoa himself, sums up his philosophy of life in his own words, admonishing, \"See life from a distance. Never question it. There's nothing it can tell you.\" Like Caeiro, whom he admires, Reis defers from questioning life. He is a modern pagan who urges one to seize the day and accept fate with tranquility. \"Wise is the one who does not seek. The seeker will find in all things the abyss, and doubt in himself.\" In this sense, Reis shares essential affinities with Caeiro.\n\nBelieving in the Greek gods, yet living in a Christian Europe, Reis feels that his spiritual life is limited and true happiness cannot be attained. This, added to his belief in Fate as a driving force for all that exists, as such disregarding freedom, leads to his epicureanist philosophy, which entails the avoidance of pain, defending that man should seek tranquility and calm above all else, avoiding emotional extremes.\n\nWhere Caeiro wrote freely and spontaneously, with joviality, of his basic, meaningless connection to the world, Reis writes in an austere, cerebral manner, with premeditated rhythm and structure and a particular attention to the correct use of the language when approaching his subjects of, as characterized by Richard Zenith, \"the brevity of life, the vanity of wealth and struggle, the joy of simple pleasures, patience in time of trouble, and avoidance of extremes\".\n\nIn his detached, intellectual approach, he is closer to Fernando Pessoa's constant rationalization, as such representing the orthonym's wish for measure and sobriety and a world free of troubles and respite, in stark contrast to Caeiro's spirit and style. As such, where Caeiro's predominant attitude is that of joviality, his sadness being accepted as natural (\"My sadness is a comfort for it is natural and right.\"), Reis is marked by melancholy, saddened by the impermanence of all things.\n\nRicardo Reis is the main character of José Saramago's 1986 novel \"The Year of the Death of Ricardo Reis\".\n\nÁlvaro de Campos manifests, in a way, as an hyperbolic version of Pessoa himself. Of the three heteronyms he is the one who feels most strongly, his motto being 'to feel everything in every way.' 'The best way to travel,' he wrote, 'is to feel.' As such, his poetry is the most emotionally intense and varied, constantly juggling two fundamental impulses: on the one hand a feverish desire to be and feel everything and everyone, declaring that 'in every corner of my soul stands an altar to a different god' (alluding to Walt Whitman's desire to 'contain multitudes'), on the other, a wish for a state of isolation and a sense of nothingness.\n\nAs a result, his mood and principles varied between violent, dynamic exultation, as he fervently wishes to experience the entirety of the universe in himself, in all manners possible (a particularly distinctive trait in this state being his futuristic leanings, including the expression of great enthusiasm as to the meaning of city life and its components) and a state of nostalgic melancholy, where life is viewed as, essentially, empty.\n\nOne of the poet's constant preoccupations, as part of his dichotomous character, is that of identity: he does not know who he is, or rather, fails at achieving an ideal identity. Wanting to be everything, and inevitably failing, he despairs. Unlike Caeiro, who asks nothing of life, he asks too much. In his poetic meditation 'Tobacco Shop' he asks:\n\n\"Mensagem\", written in Portuguese, is a symbolist epic made up of 44 short poems organized in three parts or Cycles:\n\nThe first, called \"Brasão\" (Coat-of-Arms), relates Portuguese historical protagonists to each of the fields and charges in the Portuguese coat of arms. The first two poems (\"The castles\" and \"The escutcheons\") draw inspiration from the material and spiritual natures of Portugal. Each of the remaining poems associates to each charge a historical personality. Ultimately they all lead to the Golden Age of Discovery.\n\nThe second Part, called \"Mar Português\" (Portuguese Sea), references the country's Age of Portuguese Exploration and to its seaborne Empire that ended with the death of King Sebastian at El-Ksar el Kebir (\"Alcácer-Quibir\" in Portuguese) in 1578. Pessoa brings the reader to the present as if he had woken up from a dream of the past, to fall in a dream of the future: he sees King Sebastian returning and still bent on accomplishing a Universal Empire.\n\nThe third Cycle, called \"O Encoberto\" (\"The Hidden One\"), refers to Pessoa's vision of a future world of peace and the Fifth Empire (which, according to Pessoa, is spiritual and not material, because if it were material England would already have achieved it). After the Age of Force, (Vis), and Taedium (Otium) will come Science (understanding) through a reawakening of \"The Hidden One\", or \"King Sebastian\". The Hidden One represents the fulfillment of the destiny of mankind, designed by God since before Time, and the accomplishment of Portugal.\n\nKing Sebastian is very important, indeed he appears in all three parts of Mensagem. He represents the capacity of dreaming, and believing that it's possible to achieve dreams.\n\nOne of the most famous quotes from \"Mensagem\" is the first line from \"O Infante\" (belonging to the second Part), which is \"Deus quer, o homem sonha, a obra nasce\" (which translates roughly to \"God wishes, man dreams, the work is born\"). Another well-known quote from \"Mensagem\" is the first line from \"Ulysses\", \"O mito é o nada que é tudo\" (a possible translation is \"The myth is the nothing that is all\"). This poem refers to Ulysses, king of Ithaca, as Lisbon's founder (recalling an ancient Greek myth).\n\nIn 1912, Fernando Pessoa wrote a set of essays (later collected as \"The New Portuguese Poetry\") for the cultural journal \"A Águia\" (The Eagle), founded in Oporto, in December 1910, and run by the republican association Renascença Portuguesa. In the first years of the Portuguese Republic, this cultural association was started by republican intellectuals led by the writer and poet Teixeira de Pascoaes, philosopher Leonardo Coimbra and historian Jaime Cortesão, aiming for the renewal of Portuguese culture through the aesthetic movement called Saudosismo. Pessoa contributed to the journal \"A Águia\" with a series of papers: 'The new Portuguese Poetry Sociologically Considered' (nr. 4), 'Relapsing...' (nr. 5) and 'The Psychological Aspect of the new Portuguese Poetry' (nrs. 9,11 and 12). These writings were strongly encomiastic to saudosist literature, namely the poetry of Teixeira de Pascoaes and Mário Beirão. The articles disclose Pessoa as a connoisseur of modern European literature and an expert of recent literary trends. On the other hand, he does not care much for a methodology of analysis or problems in the history of ideas. He states his confidence that Portugal would soon produce a great poet – a super-Camões – pledged to make an important contribution for European culture, and indeed, for humanity.\n\nThe philosophical notes of young Fernando Pessoa, mostly written between 1905 and 1912, illustrate his debt to the history of Philosophy more through commentators than through a first-hand protracted reading of the Classics, ancient or modern. The issues he engages with pertain to every philosophical discipline and concern a large profusion of concepts, creating a vast semantic spectrum in texts whose length oscillates between half a dozen lines and half a dozen pages and whose density of analysis is extremely variable; simple paraphrasis, expression of assumptions and original speculation.\n\nPessoa sorted the philosophical systems thus:\n\nSuch pantheist transcendentalism is used by Pessoa to define the project that \"encompasses and exceeds all systems\"; to characterize the new poetry of Saudosismo where the \"typical contradiction of this system\" occurs; to inquire of the particular social and political results of its adoption as the leading cultural paradigm; and, at last, he hints that metaphysics and religiosity strive \"to find in everything a beyond\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32333327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32333327", "title": "Frederick Aiken", "text": "Frederick Aiken\n\nFrederick Augustus Aiken (September 20, 1832 – December 23, 1878) was an American lawyer, journalist and soldier. A veteran of the Civil War, Aiken was called on to serve as one of the defense attorneys for Mary Surratt, who was tried for conspiracy in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln.\n\nInformation on Aiken's early life is largely unknown; his date of birth, city of birth, and even his full name varies depending on source. His official birth records, as well as the 1840 and 1850 census records, indicate that he was born Frederick Augustus Aiken on September 20, 1832, in Lowell, Massachusetts, to Susan (née Rice) and Solomon S. Aiken. His obituary in \"The Washington Post\" uses the middle name \"Argyle\", an 1837 birth year, and claims he was born in Boston.\n\nThe family moved to Hardwick, Vermont when Aiken was ten years old. He attended Middlebury College where he studied journalism, and later became editor of the \"Burlington Sentinel\". Aiken married Sarah Weston, daughter of a Vermont judge, on June 1, 1857. In 1859 he was admitted to the Vermont bar, and in 1860 the Aikens moved to Washington, D.C., where Aiken served as secretary to the Democratic National Committee and supported the candidacy of Vice President John C. Breckinridge in the 1860 presidential election. When the Civil War began, Aiken also wrote a letter to Jefferson Davis, offering his services to the Confederacy as a reporter.\n\nDespite his apparent sympathies for the Confederacy as indicated by his support of Breckinridge (who became a general in the Confederate Army) and his letter to Davis, Aiken served in the Union Army during the Civil War, but like his birth records, his war service also remains largely unknown, other than the fact that he had earned the rank of colonel by war's end. Two pieces of correspondence concerning his war service appear in the Official Records of the War of the Rebellion. The first is a dispatch from then-Captain Aiken to General Winfield Scott Hancock during the Battle of Williamsburg in 1862, referring to Aiken as an acting aide-de-camp; the other is a dispatch from Hancock himself, praising Aiken and other officers, and referring to him as a volunteer aide-de-camp to Hancock's division commander, General William Farrar Smith. His obituary points to his being wounded in combat, including a battle during which he had two horses shot from under him, but it is not revealed what battles he participated in besides Williamsburg.\n\nPresident Lincoln was assassinated on April 14, 1865, and his assassin, John Wilkes Booth, was himself killed less than two weeks later. Booth's accomplices were all arrested before the end of April, and brought before a military tribunal chaired by Major General David Hunter. The sole female defendant was Mary Surratt, the owner of the boarding house in Washington where Booth and the other conspirators had often met. Mrs. Surratt's official defense counsel was Reverdy Johnson, a former Attorney General and then-Senator from Maryland; however, several members of the panel challenged Johnson's right to defend Surratt as he had objected to requiring loyalty oaths from voters during the 1864 presidential election. Though the objection was withdrawn, Johnson nonetheless did not participate much in the process, and left much of the legal defense to Aiken and John Clampitt, who had recently set up their own law practice in Washington.\n\nStill relatively new to their professions and without Johnson's active participation in the case, Aiken and Clampitt were woefully unprepared for their task. Their defense relied on trying to debunk the testimony of the prosecution's two chief witnesses, John M. Lloyd and Louis J. Weichmann, but instead ended up strengthening the prosecution's case. Ultimately, the defense was unsuccessful, and Mary Surratt was sent to the gallows on July 7, 1865.\n\nAiken's involvement in Mary Surratt's defense is dramatized in the 2010 film \"The Conspirator\", where he was portrayed by James McAvoy.\n\nAiken and Clampitt's law practice dissolved in 1866, likely as a result of the backlash of the trial. \"The New York Times\" reported that Aiken was arrested in June 1866 when he cashed a check with a merchant but did not have the funds to cover the amount. His obituary stated that he had also been tapped to serve as defense counsel for Jefferson Davis, but the former Confederate President was eventually released without trial. In 1868, Aiken returned to journalism, and served as the first city editor of the \"Washington Post\".\nAiken died in Washington on December 23, 1878, as a result of heart-related illness, possibly resulting from wounds he incurred during the war. He is buried in Oak Hill Cemetery in Washington, where his grave was originally unmarked. However, the Surratt Society of Clinton, Maryland (the town formerly known as Surrattsville) conducted a campaign to raise funds to place a tombstone on the unmarked grave. On June 14, 2012, a gravestone was placed at the site, in a dedication ceremony attended by descendants of Aiken's family.\n\nAiken was portrayed by James McAvoy in the 2010 film \"The Conspirator\" which was directed by Robert Redford.\n\n"}
{"id": "22049657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22049657", "title": "George Higlett", "text": "George Higlett\n\nGeorge Allen Higlett (1860–1940) was a Chartered Secretary and philatelist who was also a prolific philatelic author and won a gold medal for his display of Turkish stamps at the \"London International Stamp Exhibition\" in 1923.\n\nAmongst Higlett's works were the humorous \"Higlett Booklets\". Higlett also published under the pen name of \"Hig\" and \"G.A.H\".\n\nGeorge Higlett was appointed to the Roll of Distinguished Philatelists in 1925.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36238111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36238111", "title": "Georgiana Burne-Jones", "text": "Georgiana Burne-Jones\n\nGeorgiana Burne-Jones, Lady Burne-Jones (Birmingham, 21 July 1840 – 2 February 1920), the second oldest of the Macdonald sisters, was the wife of Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood artist Edward Burne-Jones, mother of painter Philip Burne-Jones, aunt of novelist Rudyard Kipling, confidante and friend of William Morris and George Eliot, and something of a painter and engraver in her own right. She was a Trustee of the South London Gallery and was elected to the parish Council of Rottingdean, near Brighton in Sussex. \n\nShe is known for the biography of her husband, \"The Memorials of Edward Burne-Jones\" and for publishing his \"Flower Book\". She became the mother-in-law of John William Mackail, who married her daughter Margaret. Their children were the novelists Angela Thirkell and Denis Mackail.\n\nGeorgiana, always called \"Georgie\", was born in Birmingham on 21 July 1840, one of eight surviving children born to the Reverend George Browne Macdonald (1805–1868), a Methodist minister, and his second wife Hannah (née Jones) (1809–1875).\n\nThe Macdonald family moved frequently since the usual time in each of George's postings was three years, returning to Birmingham in September 1850, where Georgiana's elder brother Harry attended King Edward's School. Through him Georgiana and her sisters were introduced to a group of students who would become known as the Birmingham Set or \"Pembroke Set\" at the University of Oxford, most of whom were from Birmingham or had studied at King Edward's. Among them was the young Edward Burne-Jones (then plain Edward or Ned Jones). Edward went up to Exeter College, Oxford, to study theology. There he met William Morris as a consequence of a mutual interest in poetry. The two Exeter undergraduates formed a very close and intimate society, which they called \"The Brotherhood\", with other members of the Birmingham set. The members of the Brotherhood read John Ruskin and Tennyson, visited churches, and worshipped the Middle Ages. At that time neither Burne-Jones nor Morris knew Dante Gabriel Rossetti personally, but both were much influenced by his works, and met him by recruiting him as a contributor to their \"Oxford and Cambridge Magazine\" which Morris founded in 1856 to promote their ideas. Under Rossetti's influence both Burne-Jones and Morris decided to become artists, and Burne-Jones left college before taking a degree to pursue a career in art.\nGeorgiana moved to London with her family in 1853, following the death of her sister Carrie from tuberculosis; first to Sloane Square, and then to 33 Walpole Street. The family then moved to 17 Beaumont Street in Marylebone, in August 1856. After a brief family relocation to Manchester, Georgiana moved on her marriage into Russell Street in 1860.\n\nThrough her friendship with, and eventual engagement to Edward, at age 15 in June 1856, she was able to visit the studio where he worked with Rossetti and Morris. She was also introduced to John Ruskin. She said, \"I wish it were possible to explain the impression made upon me as a young girl whose experience so far had been quite remote from art, by sudden and close intercourse with those to whom it was the breath of life... I felt in the presence of a new religion.\"\n\nThe artist Ford Madox Brown and his wife Emma invited Georgiana to an extended stay at their London home in April, 1860, so that she could spend time with Edward, and the two were married two months later.\n\nGeorgiana and Edward married in Manchester on 9 June 1860. Georgiana was 19, and Edward 27. They had been engaged for four years to the day. Between them they had ₤30 and a deal table containing her engraving tools, but \"Light-hearted indifference, however, to many things generally regarded as essential lent boldness to domestic arrangements, and I remember thinking it quite natural that in the middle of the morning I should ask our only maid - a pretty one - to stand for me that I may try to draw her; to which she, being good tempered as well as pretty, cheerfully consented.\"\n\nGeorgiana moved on her marriage into rented rooms in Great Russell Street. The early years of their marriage were idyllic; they spent a summer with William and Jane Morris at Red House, working together on decorating projects. Their first child, Philip, was born on 21 October 1861. But in the summer of 1864 little Phil caught scarlet fever, and Georgiana soon contracted the dread disease, which brought on the premature birth of her second child, Christopher, who was also infected and died soon after. Georgiana was ill for months, and on her recovery refused to return to their old rooms where so much tragedy had occurred.\nThe family soon moved to 41 Kensington Square, and their daughter Margaret was born there in the summer of 1866.\n\nAfter Georgiana's marriage, her sisters Louisa, Alice and Agnes, married Alfred Baldwin, John Lockwood Kipling and Edward Poynter respectively. Their youngest sister, Edith, cared for their parents in the family home and published a brief family history.\n\nGeorgiana attended the Government School of Design, which was part of the South Kensington museums complex in a building that is now part of the Victoria and Albert Museum. Georgiana dismissed her time at the school in a single sentence in \"Memorials\" by saying she had not learned anything of importance.\n\nIn 1856, Georgiana took lessons from Ford Madox Brown and remembered, \"Madox Brown's incredible kindness in allowing me and Miss Seddon, sister to his dead friend Thomas Seddon the artist, to come and try to paint from a model in his studio\".\n\nThere are few surviving examples of her artwork. One of her woodcuts and a small, exquisitely coloured watercolour and pencil rendering of a dead bird show a focus on small scale personal drawings and woodcuts to be used as book illustrations. The bird was done in 1857 and is held by the Tate Britain.\n\nIn 1861, the decorative arts firm Morris, Marshall, Faulkner & Co., \"Fine Art Workmen in Painting, Carving, Furniture and the Metals,\" was jointly created by William Morris, Madox Brown, Burne-Jones, Charles Faulkner, Rossetti, P. P. Marshall, and Philip Webb to create and sell medieval-inspired, handcrafted items for the home. Jane Morris directed the embroidery arm, and Georgiana was employed painting tiles, but with the birth of her son Philip in October of that year she gave up the art studio to become a full-time caregiver. \"I remember the feeling of exile with which I now heard through its closed door the well-known voices of friends together with Edward's familiar laugh, while I sat with my little son on my knee and dropped selfish tears on him as 'separator of companions and the terminator of delights'\". As late as 1868 she was still attempting to learn to etch but none of her work was published.\n\nIn 1867 the Burne-Jones family moved again, to the Grange, an 18th-century house set in a large garden in North End Road, Fulham, London. For much of the 1870s Burne-Jones did not exhibit, following a spate of bitterly hostile attacks in the press, and a passionate affair (described as the \"emotional climax of his life\") with his Greek model Maria Zambaco which became a public scandal bordering on farce when she tried to commit suicide by throwing herself in Regent's Canal in 1869. During these difficult years Georgiana developed a close friendship with William Morris, whose wife Jane had fallen in love with Rossetti. Morris and Georgiana may have been in love, but if he asked her to leave her husband (as some of his poetry of these years suggests), she refused.\n\nOf the Zambaco affair, which would sputter on for some years, Georgiana wrote to her dear friend Rosalind Howard \"Dearest Rosalind, be hard on no one in this matter, and exalt no one, and may we all come through it at last. I know one thing, and that is that there is enough love between Edward and me to last out a long life if it is given us\".\n\nIn the end, the Burne-Joneses remained together for another 30 years, as did the Morrises. William Morris and Georgiana remained close until his death.\n\nAnother close friend was George Eliot, whom Georgiana met in February 1868. The self-educated novelist encouraged her young friend to make up for her lack of education, and Georgiana studied to improve her scant French and German, and took Latin lessons. They remained close until Eliot's sudden marriage in 1880, of which Georgiana had no inkling in advance, left her feeling betrayed and untrusted. The rift was never mended, for Eliot died that December.\n\nIn 1880 the Burne-Joneses bought Prospect House in Rottingdean, near Brighton in Sussex, as their holiday home, and in 1889 they acquired Aubrey Cottage next door to create North End House, reflecting the fact that their Fulham home was in North End Road. Georgiana loved her new country house and garden, and became active in village affairs. Rottingdean became her home in way that it never was for her husband, who preferred the Grange and its studio.\n\nAlthough she had abandoned organized religion at the time of her marriage, Georgiana's Methodist upbringing emphasized service to the community, and she had been a supporter of William Morris's active role in the Social Democratic Federation and later the Socialist League. Her close friends Morris, John Ruskin, and Rosalind Howard were all involved in progressive causes. Georgiana's first steps into public service came as a supporter of the South London Fine Art Gallery, which had been established in 1891 to arts education for the working classes of South London. Georgiana encouraged the loan of her husband’s paintings and those of others in her circle. She and Walter Crane championed the addition of a library to the gallery. She became the only woman on the committee established to turn governance of the gallery over to the local authority, and discovered a talent for detail-oriented committee work.\n\nIn the mid-1880s Burne-Jones had begun hyphenating his name, merely - as he wrote later - to avoid \"annihilation\" in the mass of Joneses, and thus Georgiana became Lady Burne-Jones when her husband reluctantly accepted a baronetcy in 1894, partially at least as the title would descend to his son Philip, who ran with the smart set around the Prince of Wales and cared very much for the honour. Jane Morris wrote that her husband had commented \"Well, a man can be an ass for the sake of his children\", but in general the Socialists of their circle and Georgiana herself were appalled.\n\nIn 1895, the new Lady Burne-Jones took her first steps into elected office, winning a seat on the parish council of her beloved Rottingdean (an office established by the Local Government Act of 1894), to the apparent delight of both her husband and her old friend William Morris. She supported interests of the working class and women's issues, taking positions in her electioneering materials that were radical for the wife of a baronet and simply baffling to the villagers of Rottingden. But her day-to-day work in the parish focused on street lighting, fire brigades, and the provision of a village nurse for the community.\n\nWilliam Morris died after a lingering illness in October 1896. Edward Burne-Jones, who had been Morris's friend and partner since their college days, was devastated, and his health declined substantially. In 1898 he had an attack of influenza, and had apparently recovered, when he was again taken suddenly ill, and died of a heart attack in the early hours of 17 June 1898. Six days later, at the intervention of the Prince of Wales, a memorial service was held at Westminster Abbey. It was the first time an artist had been so honoured. Burne-Jones was cremated and his ashes were buried in a grave lined with moss and roses at the village church in Rottingdean.\n\nEdward Burne-Jones had dreaded that someone unsympathetic would attempt his biography, and had asked his wife to take up the task. Georgiana, now aged 58, began work within months of Edward's death, reveling in memory. In a letter to F. G. Stephens, she wrote, \"There are so few left now who can recall those early days when Gabriel [Rossetti] was in his glory and Edward and Morris sat at his feet and rejoiced in his light\".\n\n\"Memorials of Edward Burne-Jones\" was published six years later, in 1904, in two volumes, and remains a standard reference. In keeping with the standards of the times, much of the vagaries of his personal life were glossed over (the years of the episode with Maria Zambaco fall neatly into a period somewhere between the end of Volume 1 and the beginning of Volume 2).\n\nWhile she worked on the \"Memorials\", Georgiana remained active on the Rottingdean parish council, and her politics became if anything more radical as she grew older. At the outbreak of the Boer War, England was swept up in a wave of pro-war patriotism, but Georgiana opposed Britain's action in South Africa. When news of the relief of the siege of Mafeking arrived, Georgiana hung a banner at North End House reading \"We have killed and also take possession,\" paraphrasing a verse from the Bible. Her nephew, Rudyard Kipling, rushed to her house to ensure she would not fall victim to an outraged mob of villagers.\n\nIn 1905, Georgiana arranged the publication of \"The Flower Book\", a limited-edition facsimile of an album of watercolour flower paintings by Edward Burne-Jones. Three hundred copies were issued in cooperation with the Fine Art Society of London. It was printed by Henri Piazza, who hand-stencilled watercolour over collotypes using the pochoir technique to produce brilliant colours.\nThese copies of the \"Flower Book\" were sold in both bound and unbound form, with the unbound copies contained in a clamshell box.\n\nGeorgiana Burne-Jones died on 2 February 1920 after a short illness. Her son Philip, who had become a portrait painter, died in 1926. Her daughter Margaret married John William Mackail (1850–1945), the friend and biographer of Morris, and Professor of Poetry at Oxford from 1911–1916, and died in 1953. Their children were the novelists Angela Thirkell and Denis Mackail.\n\nGeorgiana Burne-Jones, in common with others of her circle, is portrayed in a number of drawings and paintings by her husband and other artists. A portrait by her husband, dated 1863 and now in the Birmingham Museum and Art Gallery portrays the 22-year-old Georgiana in a format heavily influenced by Renaissance portraiture, including the Latin inscription. It is one of Burne-Jones's first attempts at formal portraiture.\n\n\"Green Summer\", a watercolour by Burne-Jones painted at Red House in the summer of 1864 while Georgiana's sisters Louisa and Agnes were visiting London, depicts Louisa, Agnes, Jane Morris, and others listening to Georgiana reading aloud. A version in oils was painted in 1868.\n\nA portrait of Georgiana drinking tea of ca. 1870 was painted by her brother-in-law, the artist Edward Poynter.\n\nBurne-Jones's best-known portrait of his wife was begun in 1883, and shows her holding an herbal, with her children in the background, Philip (aged about 22) at his easel and Margaret (about 17) standing behind him. Burne-Jones tinkered with the portrait for years, and it remained unfinished at his death. It was never exhibited in his lifetime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1029653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1029653", "title": "Harold Keen", "text": "Harold Keen\n\nHarold Hall \"Doc\" Keen (1894–1973) was a British engineer who produced the engineering design, and oversaw the construction of, the British bombe, a codebreaking machine used in World War II to read German messages sent using the Enigma machine. He was known as \"Doc\" Keen because of his habit of carrying tools and paperwork in a case resembling a doctor's bag. After the war he was awarded the O.B.E..\n\nKeen was born in the borough of Shoreditch in east London in 1894. By age 18 he had moved to Kentish Town and began studying Electrical Engineering. In 1912 he joined the British Tabulating Machine Company (BTM), established to import and assemble American punched card technology. In 1916, Keen joined the Royal Flying Corps and was assigned to the ground staff of a bomber squadron in northern France. In 1919 he returned to BTM and married an Eva Burningham. In 1921, Keen moved with BTM to Letchworth in Hertfordshire. Two years later, he was appointed head of the Experimental Department, and his innovations there gained him the reputation as the leading British innovator of punched-card technology; Keen was granted more than sixty patents. In the 1930s he became Chief Engineer.\n\nA machine called the \"cryptologic bomb\" (Polish: \"bomba kryptologiczna\") had been produced by the Polish codebreakers in their successful breaking of Enigma before 1939. It was, however, useful only as long as the Germans continued with particular weaknesses in operating procedure, which they gradually tightened up, so that the Polish success rate diminished dramatically. Alan Turing designed the British bombe on a more general principle, the assumption of the presence of text, called a \"crib\", that cryptanalysts could predict was likely to be present at a defined point in the message. This technique is termed a \"known plaintext attack\" and had been used to a limited extent by the Poles, e.g., the Germans' use of \"ANX\" — German for \"To,\" followed by \"X\" as a spacer.\n\nAs chief engineer at the British Tabulating Machine Company at Letchworth Keen was approached to turn these ideas into a working reality. The first bombe, which was based on Turing's original design, was installed in Hut 1 at Bletchley Park on 18 March 1940 and was named \"Victory\". The second bombe, named \"Agnus dei\", later shortened to \"Agnes\", or \"Aggie\", was equipped with an important additional feature, the \"diagonal board\" that had been designed by Gordon Welchman. It was installed on 8 August 1940; \"Victory\" was later returned to Letchworth to have a diagonal board fitted.\n\nDuring 1940, 178 messages were broken on the two machines, nearly all successfully. Because of the danger of bombes at Bletchley Park being lost if there were to be a bombing raid, five bombe outstations were established, at Adstock, Gayhurst, Wavendon, Stanmore, and Eastcote. The bombe was referred to by Group Captain Winterbotham as a \"Bronze Goddess\" because of its colour. The devices were more prosaically described by operators as being \"like great big metal bookcases\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "932068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932068", "title": "Jacob of Nisibis", "text": "Jacob of Nisibis\n\nSaint Jacob of Nisibis (, ', Greek: \"Ἅγιος Ἰάκωβος Ἐπίσκοπος Μυγδονίας\"), also known as Saint Jacob of Mygdonia, Saint Jacob the Great, and Saint James of Nisibis, was the Bishop of Nisibis until his death.\n\nHe was lauded as the \"Moses of Mesopotamia\", and was the spiritual father of the renowned writer and theologian Saint Ephrem the Syrian. Saint Jacob was present at the first ecumenical council at Nicaea, and is venerated as a saint by the Eastern Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox Church, and Roman Catholic Church.\n\nSaint Jacob was the son of prince Gefal, and was born in the city of Nisibis in Mesopotamia in the 3rd century AD. It is claimed that he was a relative of Saint Gregory the Illuminator. According to Gennadius of Massilia, Saint Jacob became a Confessor of the Faith for his suffering during persecution by Emperor Maximian. Saint Jacob became an anchorite in c. 280 in the mountains near Nisibis where, according to Saint Theodoret of Cyrrhus, he survived on herbs and fruits, and chose to wear no clothes, build shelter, or light fires for warmth. The saint became famous, and received visits from Sheria, Bishop of Arbela (r. 304-316), according to the \"Chronicle of Arbela\".\n\nThe saint resolved to climb Mount Qardu, traditionally believed to be the resting place of Noah's Ark, and recover a fragment of the ark upon hearing from the hermit Maroukeh that local people doubted the Great Flood. Saint Jacob ascended the mountain and rested close to the summit; in his sleep, an angel placed a fragment of the ark close to him, and instructed him to awake. The saint brought the relic to the hermit Maroukeh and, according to the saint's hagiography, a sacred spring appeared where the saint had rested, reputed to have healing properties.\n\nA number of miracles are credited to Saint Jacob by Saint Theodoret in \"Historia Religiosa\" (Religious History), in which the saint had a boulder explode beside a Persian judge who had given an unjust judgement. Also, in one incident, Saint Jacob cursed boastful, promiscuous women by a spring so that their hair became white, and the spring disappeared. The women subsequently repented, and the spring returned, however, the women's hair remained white. As well as this, a group of people attempted to deceive the saint whereby they asked for money to fund the burial of a man they had lain down and covered with a sheet with the illusion of death; consequently, the man died, and the people repented and thus the man was resurrected as a result of Saint Jacob's prayers.\n\nDisagreement exists as to the date of the saint's consecration as bishop of Nisibis as it is argued it took place in c. 300, and he is recorded as the city's first bishop by Saint Ephrem the Syrian. However, Saint Jacob is credited as the successor of Babu, the first bishop of Nisibis (r. 300-309), by the \"Catholic Encyclopedia\", who Saint Ephrem states was in fact Saint Jacob's successor. In his \"Chronography\", Elijah of Nisibis states that Saint Jacob was consecrated bishop in 308.\n\nThe \"Chronicle of Edessa\" states that the saint constructed the first church in Nisibis in c. 313-320. Miles, Bishop of Susa, is said to have contributed a large quantity of silk from Adiabene to the church's construction. The foundation of the School of Nisibis is also attributed to Saint Jacob. Saint Jacob attended the First Council of Nicaea in 325, and opposed Arius. Saint Ephrem purportedly accompanied the saint to the council, however, this is considered apocryphal. Saint Jacob attended the funeral of Saint Metrophanes of Byzantium in 326.\n\nSaint Jacob was present at the siege of Nisibis by Shapur II, \"Shahanshah\" of Iran, in 337/338, and according to Saint Theodoret, with encouragement from the city's population and Saint Ephrem, Saint Jacob ascended the walls and prayed for the city, and cursed the besiegers. The \"Martyrologium Hieronymianum\" relates that he died on 15 July, the thirtieth day of the siege, according to the \"Chronicle of 724\". Gennadius and Saint Ephrem record that Saint Jacob was buried within the walls of Nisibis. Saint Theodoret adds that the Iranian army was afflicted by a swarm of gnats and flies summoned by the saint, and Shapur II subsequently abandoned the siege. \n\nThe saint is counted amongst the signatories of the Council of Antioch in 341, however, his presence at the council is unrecorded in other sources. In 350, according to the \"Chronicon Paschale\", Saint Jacob helped defend Nisibis against Shapur II again, and as he was wearing the imperial regalia, was confused for Emperor Constantius II. Shapur II challenged the saint to fight outside the city, where it was revealed he was an apparition and the Iranian army withdrew as a result.\n\nThe fragment of Noah's Ark discovered by Saint Jacob was later brought to Etchmiadzin Cathedral in Armenia.\n\nSaint Theodoret relates that the bones of Saint Jacob were transferred from Nisibis to Edessa following the city's cession to Iran on 22 August 363. The saint's relics were later moved to Constantinople in 970, according to the Menologion of the Armenians at Venice.\n\nFragments of the skull of Saint Jacob were donated to Hildesheim Cathedral in Germany in 1367 by Lippold von Steinberg after the Battle of Dinklar. \n\nIn 2018, the relics of Saint Jacob were brought from the Armenian Church of Saint George in Plovdiv, Bulgaria, to Canada, where it was taken to the Armenian Church of Saint Gregory the Illuminator in Montreal on 17 June, and the Armenian Church of the Holy Trinity in Toronto on 24 June.\n\nSeveral homilies previously attributed to Saint Jacob by Gennadius of Massilia and others are now understood to be the work of Saint Aphraates. The misidentification arose from Aphraates' assumption of the name Jacob upon becoming bishop. Letters and canons, as well as other works, formerly attributed to the saint are known to be written in a later period.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "44174219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44174219", "title": "Jakob Denzinger", "text": "Jakob Denzinger\n\nJakob Frank Denzinger (June 29, 1924 – February 11, 2016) was a concentration camp and extermination-death camp guard during the Holocaust in Nazi Germany at five separate concentration camps across three countries, as well as a member of the SS-Totenkopfverbände. In 1956, Denzinger fled to the United States, becoming a naturalized citizen in 1972. Denzinger fled the US in 1989 in advance of his denaturalization. An Associated Press investigation reported in October 2014 that despite being denaturalized, Denzinger was still receiving monthly Social Security payments.\n\nJakob Frank Denzinger was born in Osijek, Croatia, then in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, as an ethnic German. He had at least one brother, named Andrija Denzinger, who is married to Julia Denzinger. Andrija is six years younger than Jakob, and he also lives in Osijek along with his wife, only a few miles from Jakob's flat. In 1950, Jakob married Maria (\"Mary\"), who was born in Cepin, Croatia on January 17, 1927.\n\nDuring World War II Denzinger was a concentration camp guard at five separate concentration and extermination-death camps: The extermination-death camps at Auschwitz and Mauthausen; and concentration camps Plaszow, Sachsenhausen and Buchenwald. At the age of 18 in 1942, Denzinger began serving in the Schutzstaffel. Starting the next year, he served in the Auschwitz extermination-death camp from May 1943 to March 1945. On April 24, 1945, Denzinger was taken prisoner by Allied forces in France. He was presumably held until the end of the war, 2 September 1945.\n\nDenzinger obtained an entry visa into the United States at the American Embassy in Frankfurt. In October 1956, he entered the US and became naturalized in 1972. He settled in Akron, Ohio. Working as a plastics executive, Denzinger \"had acquired the trappings of success: a Cadillac DeVille and a Lincoln Town Car, a lakefront home, investments in oil and real estate.\"\n\nHaving learned that American authorities had started the denaturalization process against him, Denzinger left for West Germany in August 1989 after packing \"a pair of suitcases\". In November 1989, just three months after Denzinger had left the country, his U.S. citizenship was revoked.\n\nAfter arriving in West Germany, Denzinger soon moved to his native Osijek, Croatia, where as of 2014 he lived \"in a spacious apartment\". In October 2014, the U.S. Justice Department's Office of Special Investigations came under scrutiny of Congress and the press when reports in the press revealed that Denzinger and others were collecting American Social Security benefits while living abroad. Denzinger was one of these men, collecting $1500 a month, about twice the average take home pay of Croatian workers.\n\nIn 2014 the Croatian government opened a war crimes investigation into Denzinger. He was wanted in Germany, and his name was on a list of people to be prosecuted specifically for Nazi war crimes. Croatian officials have requested documents from the German government, the United States, and the Simon Wiesenthal Centre to support their investigation.\n\nDenzinger's son Thomas stated, \"He's made a new life for himself over there [in Croatia]. But he's angry. He claims he was drafted into the army and he did as he was told. You do as you are told or they line you up against a wall and shoot you. You don’t have any choice\".\n\nIn Čepin, Croatia, a grave has been prepared for Denzinger before his death. The grave has a tombstone on black marble along with gold-colored inscriptions. A portrait photo of Denzinger is included on the tombstone, protected from the elements by a clear plastic coating. Denzinger's wife Maria died on April 26, 2014, in the United States after being diagnosed with lung cancer three days before. Denzinger died in Croatia on February 11, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "33265044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33265044", "title": "Jeff Hiller", "text": "Jeff Hiller\n\nJeff Hiller is an American actor and comedian.\n\nHiller started performing improv comedy Upright Citizens Brigade Theatre in 2001 where he was part of the improv teams \"People People\", \"The Scam\", \"Creep\" and \"Police Chief Rumble\".\n\nHiller has appeared in various television series, including \"Guiding Light\", \"Ugly Betty\", \"30 Rock\", \"\", \"Psych\", and \"Community\". He has also appeared in the films \"Morning Glory\" and \"Ghost Town\". He was well-received for his performance as John Quincy Adams in the hit rock musical \"Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson\".\n\nHiller is openly gay and was founder of the all-gay improv troupe \"Neely O'Hara\".\n\n"}
{"id": "160965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160965", "title": "Joe Strummer", "text": "Joe Strummer\n\nJohn Graham Mellor (21 August 1952 – 22 December 2002), known by his stage name Joe Strummer, was an English musician, singer, actor and songwriter who was the co-founder, lyricist, rhythm guitarist and lead vocalist of the Clash, a rock band formed in 1976 as part of the original wave of British punk.\n\nTheir second album, \"Give 'Em Enough Rope\" (1978) reached number 2 on the UK charts. Soon after, they achieved success in the US, starting with \"London Calling\" (1979), and peaking with 1982's \"Combat Rock\", reaching number 7 on the US charts and being certified 2× platinum there. The Clash's explosive political lyrics, eclectic musical experimentation, and rebellious attitude had a far-reaching influence on rock music in general, and alternative rock in particular. Their music incorporated reggae, ska, dub, funk, rap, and rockabilly.\n\nStrummer's musical experience included stints with the 101ers, Latino Rockabilly War, the Mescaleros, and the Pogues, in addition to his own solo music career. His work as a musician allowed him to explore other interests, including acting, creating film scores for television and movies, songwriting, radio broadcasting, and a position as a radio host on a BBC show titled \"London Calling\".\n\nStrummer and the Clash were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in January 2003. In his remembrance, Strummer's friends and family established the Joe Strummer Foundation (initially known as Strummerville), a non-profit organisation which gives opportunities to musicians and support to projects around the world that create empowerment through music.\n\nJoe Strummer was born John Graham Mellor in Ankara, Turkey, on 21 August 1952. His mother, Anna Mackenzie (1915-1986), a crofter's daughter born and raised in Bonar Bridge in the Scottish Highlands, was a nurse. His British father, Ronald Ralph Mellor (1916-1984), M.B.E., was a clerical officer- later attaining the rank of second secretary- in the foreign service, born in Lucknow, India. Ronald Mellor, whose father was a railway official in India, had an Armenian maternal grandfather and a German Jewish paternal grandmother. The family spent much time moving from place to place, and Strummer spent parts of his early childhood in Cairo, Mexico City and Bonn.\nAt the age of 9, Strummer and his older brother David, 10, began boarding at the City of London Freemen's School in Surrey. Strummer rarely saw his parents during the next seven years.\n\nHe developed a love of rock music listening to records by Little Richard and the Beach Boys as well as American folk-singer Woody Guthrie. Strummer would even go by the nickname \"Woody\" for a few years. Strummer would later say that \"the reason [he] played music was the Beach Boys\".\n\nBy 1970 his brother David had become estranged from his family and had joined the National Front. His suicide in July profoundly affected Strummer, as did having to identify his body after it had lain undiscovered for three days.\n\nAfter finishing his time at City of London Freemen's School, Ashtead Park, Surrey, in 1970, Strummer moved on to the Central School of Art and Design in London, where he briefly flirted with the idea of becoming a professional cartoonist and completed a one-year foundation course. During this time, Mellor shared a flat in the north London suburb of Palmers Green with friends Clive Timperley and Tymon Dogg. In 1971 Strummer became a vegetarian and remained one until his death.\nIn 1973 Strummer moved to Newport, Wales. He did not study at Newport College of Art but met up with college musicians in the Students' Union in Stow Hill and became vocalist for Flaming Youth, renaming the band the Vultures. The Vultures included three former members of Rip Off Park Rock & Roll Allstars, the original college band co-founded by Terry Earl Taylor. For the next year he was the band's part-time singer and rhythm guitarist. During this time Strummer also worked as a gravedigger in St Woolos Cemetery. In 1974, the band fell apart and he moved back to London where he met up again with Tymon Dogg. He was a street performer for a while and then decided to form another band with his West London roommates. The band was called the 101ers, named after the address of their squat (101 Walterton Road, in Maida Vale).\n\nThe band played many gigs in London pubs, playing covers of popular American R&B and blues songs. In 1975 he stopped calling himself \"Woody\" Mellor and adopted the stage name of Joe Strummer, and insisted that his friends call him by that name. The name \"Strummer\" apparently referred to his role as rhythm guitarist, in a rather self-deprecating way. Strummer was the lead singer of the 101ers and began to write original songs for the group. One song he wrote was inspired by his girlfriend at the time, The Slits drummer Palmolive. The group liked the song \"Keys to Your Heart\", and picked it as their first single.\n\nOn 3 April 1976, the then-unknown Sex Pistols opened for The 101ers at a venue called the Nashville Rooms in London, and Strummer was impressed by them. Sometime after the show, Strummer was approached by Bernie Rhodes and Mick Jones. Jones was from the band London SS and wanted Strummer to join as lead singer. Strummer agreed to leave the 101ers and join Jones, bassist Paul Simonon, drummer Terry Chimes and guitarist Keith Levene. The band was named the Clash by Simonon and made their debut on 4 July 1976 in Sheffield, opening for the Sex Pistols at the Black Swan (also known as the Mucky Duck, now known as the Boardwalk). On 25 January 1977, the band signed with CBS Records as a three-piece after Levene was fired from the band and Chimes quit. Topper Headon later became the band's full-time drummer.\n\nDuring his time with the Clash, Strummer, along with his bandmates, became notorious for getting into trouble with the law. On 10 June 1977, he and Headon were arrested for spray-painting \"The Clash\" on a wall in a hotel. On 20 May 1980, he was arrested for hitting a violent member of the audience with his guitar during a performance in Hamburg, Germany. This incident shocked Strummer, and had a lasting personal impact on him. Strummer said, \"It was a watershed—violence had really controlled me for once\". He determined never again to fight violence with violence.\n\nBefore the album \"Combat Rock\" was released in 1982, Strummer went into hiding and the band's management said that he had \"disappeared\". Bernie Rhodes, the band's manager, pressured Joe to do so because tickets were selling slowly for the Scottish leg of an upcoming tour. It was planned for Strummer to travel, in secret, to Texas and stay with his friend, musician Joe Ely. Uneasy with his decision, Strummer instead decided to genuinely disappear and \"dicked around\" in France. During this time, Strummer ran the Paris Marathon in April 1982. He claimed his training regimen consisted of 10 pints of beer the night before the race. For this period of time, Joe's whereabouts were not only a mystery to the public, but the band's management as well. Joe later said this was a huge mistake and you \"have to have some regrets\". This was in spite of the popular success of the single \"Rock the Casbah\". During this time band members began to argue a lot, and with tensions high, the group began to fall apart.\n\nIn September 1983, Strummer issued the infamous \"Clash Communique\", and fired Mick Jones. Topper Headon had earlier been kicked out of the band because of his heroin addiction, and Terry Chimes was brought back temporarily to fill his place until the permanent replacement, Pete Howard, could be found. This left the band with only two of its original members, Strummer and Simonon. Rhodes persuaded Strummer to carry on, adding two new guitarists. Under this lineup, \"The Clash Mark Two\", they released the album \"Cut the Crap\" in 1985. The album was panned by fans and critics alike and Strummer disbanded the Clash.\n\nAt the band's induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, the Clash was said to be \"considered one of the most overtly political, explosive and exciting bands in rock and roll history\". Their songs tackled social decay, unemployment, racism, police brutality, political and social repression, and militarism in detail. Strummer was involved with the Anti-Nazi League and Rock Against Racism campaigns. He later also gave his support to the Rock Against the Rich series of concerts organised by the anarchist organisation Class War. The Clash's \"London Calling\" album was voted best album of the 1980s by \"Rolling Stone\" magazine (although it was released in late 1979 in the UK, it was not released until 1980 in the US).\n\nA year later, Strummer worked on several songs for the 1986 film \"Sid and Nancy\", including \"Love Kills\" and \"Dum Dum Club\". Strummer also later worked with Mick Jones and his band Big Audio Dynamite, contributing to the band's second studio album by co-writing most of the songs as well as producing the album along with Jones.\n\nIn 1987, he played a small part in the film \"Walker\", directed by Alex Cox, as a character named \"Faucet\" and wrote and performed on the film's soundtrack. He starred in another Cox film that same year called \"Straight to Hell\", as the character Simms. \"Straight to Hell\" also featured London-Irish folk/punk band the Pogues, both as actors and contributors to the soundtrack. Strummer joined the Pogues for a tour in 1987/88, filling in for ailing guitarist Philip Chevron, who wrote (in May 2008) on the band's online forum: \"When I was sick in late 1987, I taught Joe all the guitar parts in an afternoon and he was on tour in the US as deputy guitarist the next day. Joe wrote all the tabs in his meticulously neat hand on a long piece of paper which he taped to the top of the guitar so he could glance down occasionally when he was onstage.\" This tour would be the first of several collaborations with the band.\n\nIn 1989, Strummer appeared in Jim Jarmusch's film \"Mystery Train\" as a drunken, short-tempered drifter named Johnny (whom most characters refer to as Elvis, much to Johnny's dismay). He made a cameo appearance in Aki Kaurismäki's 1990 film \"I Hired a Contract Killer\" as a guitarist in a pub, performing two songs (\"Burning Lights\" and \"Afro-Cuban Bebop\"). These were released as a promotional 7-inch single limited to a few hundred copies, credited to \"Joe Strummer & the Astro Physicians\". The \"Astro Physicians\" were in fact the Pogues (\"Afro-Cuban Bebop\" got a re-release on the Pogues' 2008 box set). During this time Strummer continued to act, write and produce soundtracks for various films, most notably the soundtrack for \"Grosse Pointe Blank\" (1997).\n\nIn 1989 Strummer produced a solo record with the band the Latino Rockabilly War in 1989. The album \"Earthquake Weather\" was a critical and commercial flop, and resulted in the loss of his contract with Sony Records. He also did the soundtrack to the movie \"Permanent Record\" with this band.\n\nStrummer was asked by the Pogues, who were fracturing as a band, to help them produce their next album, released in 1990 as \"Hell's Ditch\". In 1991, he replaced Shane MacGowan as singer of the Pogues for a tour after MacGowan's departure from the band. One night of this tour was professionally recorded, and three tracks (\"I Fought the Law\", \"London Calling\", and \"Turkish Song of the Damned\") have seen release as b-sides and again on the Pogues' 2008 box set.\n\nOn 16 April 1994, Strummer joined Czech-American band Dirty Pictures on stage in Prague at the Repre Club in Obecni Dum at \"Rock for Refugees\", a benefit concert for people left displaced by the war in Bosnia. Although the set appeared impromptu, Strummer and the band had spent the days leading up to the event rehearsing and \"hanging out\" in Prague. The show began with \"London Calling\" and without pause went into \"Brand New Cadillac\". In the middle of the song, the power went out. Once the power was back on, Strummer asked the audience whether or not they would mind if the band started over. They then began again with \"London Calling\" and continued on for another half-hour.\n\nAfter these self-described \"wilderness years\", Strummer began working with other bands; he played piano on the 1995 UK hit of the Levellers, \"Just the One\" and appeared on the Black Grape single \"England's Irie\" in 1996. In 1997, while in New York City, he worked with noted producer and engineer Lee \"Scratch\" Perry on remixed Clash and 101ers reissue dub material. In collaboration with percussionist Pablo Cook, Strummer wrote and performed the soundtrack to \"Tunnel of Love\" (Robert Wallace 1997) that was featured in the Cannes Film Festival in the same year.\n\nIn 1998, he made a guest appearance on the animated television show, \"South Park\" and appeared on the album \"\" featuring songs from and inspired by the series.\n\nDuring this time, Strummer was engaged in a legal dispute with the Clash's record label, Epic Records. The disagreement lasted nearly eight years and ended with the label agreeing to let him record solo records with another label. If the Clash were to reunite though, they would have to record for Sony. During the nineties, Strummer was a DJ on the BBC World Service with his half-hour programme \"London Calling\". Samples from the series provide the vocals for \"Midnight Jam\" on Joe Strummer and the Mescaleros' final album \"Streetcore\".\n\nIn the mid-to-late 1990s, Strummer gathered top-flight musicians into a backing band he called the Mescaleros. Strummer and the band signed with Mercury Records, and released their first album in 1999, which was co-written with Antony Genn, called \"Rock Art and the X-Ray Style\". A tour of England, Europe, and North America soon followed; sets included several Clash fan favourites.\n\nIn 2001, the band signed with Californian punk label Hellcat Records and released their second studio album, \"Global a Go-Go\". The album was supported with a 21-date tour of North America, Britain, and Ireland. Once again, these concerts featured Clash material (\"London's Burning\", \"Rudie Can't Fail\", \"(White Man) In Hammersmith Palais\"), as well as covers of reggae and ska hits (\"The Harder They Come\", \"A Message to You, Rudy\") and the band regularly closed the show by playing the Ramones' \"Blitzkrieg Bop\". He covered Bob Marley's \"Redemption Song\" with Johnny Cash. In the same year, a Strummer and the Mescaleros' version of the song \"Minstrel Boy\" was used for the end credits of the film \"Black Hawk Down\".\n\nOn 15 November 2002, Strummer and the Mescaleros played a benefit show for striking fire fighters in London, at the Acton Town Hall. Mick Jones was in the audience, and joined the band on stage during the Clash's \"Bankrobber\". An encore followed with Jones playing guitar and singing on \"White Riot\" and \"London's Burning\". This performance marked the first time since 1983 that Strummer and Jones had performed together on stage. Jones later remarked that it was totally unplanned and that he felt compelled to join Strummer on stage.\n\nStrummer's final regular gig was at Liverpool Academy on 22 November 2002, yet his final performance, just two weeks before his death, was in a small club venue 'The Palace' in Bridgwater, Somerset, near his home. Shortly before his death, Strummer and U2's Bono co-wrote a song, \"46664\", for Nelson Mandela as part of a campaign against AIDS in Africa. He had been scheduled to play at that fundraising concert in February 2003 on Robben Island. Mick Jones later recorded a version of the song in studio, with his vocals and guitar work.\n\nIn 1975, after being offered £120 (), Strummer married Pamela Moolman, a South African citizen, so she could obtain British citizenship (foreign wives of male Britons could obtain British nationality via marriage until the coming into force of the British Nationality Act 1981). He bought his signature Fender Telecaster, later painted black, with the money. In 1978, Strummer started a relationship with Gaby Salter shortly after her 17th birthday. The couple remained together for 14 years and had two daughters, Jazz and Lola, but did not marry as Strummer had been unable to locate and divorce Moolman. During his relationship with Salter, he had multiple affairs spanning the 1980s.\n\nIn 1993, Strummer began an affair with Lucinda Tait, which finally ended his relationship with Gaby Salter. Strummer and Tait married in 1995 and remained so until his death in 2002.\n\nStrummer was a socialist. He stated about his socialist views, \"I believe in socialism because it seems more humanitarian, rather than every man for himself and 'I'm alright jack' and all those asshole businessmen with all the loot. I made up my mind from viewing society from that angle. That's where I'm from and there's where I've made my decisions from. That's why I believe in socialism.\"\n\nStrummer died suddenly on 22 December 2002 in his home at Broomfield in Somerset, the victim of an undiagnosed congenital heart defect. His estate was valued at just under £1 million, and he left all the money to his wife Lucinda. Strummer was cremated, and his ashes were given to his family.\n\nStrummer was instrumental in setting up Future Forests (since rechristened the Carbon Neutral Company), dedicated to planting trees in various parts of the world to combat global warming. Strummer was the first artist to make the recording, pressing and distribution of his records carbon neutral through the planting of trees. In his remembrance, Strummer's friends and family have established the Strummerville Foundation for the promotion of new music, which holds an annual festival with the same name.\n\nIn January 2003, the Clash were inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. At the Grammy Awards in February 2003, \"London Calling\" was performed by Elvis Costello, Bruce Springsteen, Steven Van Zandt, Dave Grohl, Pete Thomas, and Tony Kanal in tribute to Strummer.\n\nIn the same month at the rock club Debaser in Stockholm some of Sweden's most famous rock musicians paid their tribute to Strummer by performing songs written by the Clash (the exception was Nicke Borg and Dregen from Backyard Babies, who performed \"I Fought the Law\", which the Clash had covered). At the end of the concert, the Swedish punk band Ebba Grön reunited for the tribute, aided by Mick Jones on guitar.\n\nAt the time of his death, Strummer was working on another Mescaleros album, which was released posthumously in October 2003 under the title \"Streetcore\". The album features a tribute to Johnny Cash, \"Long Shadow\", which was written for Cash to sing and recorded in Rick Rubin's garage, as well as a remembrance of the terrorist attacks on 11 September 2001 (\"Ramshackle Day Parade\"), and a cover of Bob Marley's \"Redemption Song\", which Strummer had also recorded as a duet with Cash. The Cash/Strummer duet version appears on the 2003 box set \"Unearthed\". Strummer and the Mescaleros were scheduled to open for Pearl Jam on the 2003 Riot Act tour. Following Strummer's death, Pearl Jam added a cover of \"Know Your Rights\" to their setlist on the tour, and also had \"Straight to Hell\" play as the coda at the end of their shows.\n\nIn November 2003, a video for \"Redemption Song\" was released, directed by Josh Cheuse. It features how graffiti artist REVOLT painted a memorial mural on the wall of the Niagara Bar in the East Village of New York City.\n\nIn 2013 the mural of Joe Strummer outside Niagara bar was destroyed due to construction, and on 19 September 2013, a new mural was unveiled. The unveiling was accompanied by a large celebration, attended by Mick Jones.\n\nOn 22 December 2003, a year after his death, a tribute show/benefit was held at Irving Plaza in NYC. Bands that played were: Ari Up; Clem Snide; the Detachment Kit; Dirty Mary; Hammel on Trial; Jesse Malin; New Blood Revival; the Realistics; Eugene Hütz; Radio 4; Secret Army; Ted Leo; Vic Thrill & the Saturn Missile. The show was videotaped by punkcast.com but is as yet unreleased.\n\nThe Belfast punk rock group Stiff Little Fingers recorded a tribute song \"Strummerville\" on their 2003 album, \"Guitar and Drum\".\n\nIn 2004 Al Barr, lead singer of the Boston punk band Dropkick Murphys, named his son Strummer in honour of Joe.\n\nGerman band Beatsteaks paid tribute to Strummer on their 2004 album \"Smack Smash\" with the song \"Hello Joe\".\n\nIn 2004, German punk band Die Toten Hosen released an EP called \"Friss oder stirb\", which included a tribute song for Strummer called \"Goodbye Garageland\"; it is a lyrical co-production with Matt Dangerfield from London's 77 punk band the Boys.\nJoe Pernice-penned \"High As a Kite\", included on the Pernice Brothers' 2006 album \"Live a Little\", was in part a tribute to Joe Strummer. Lyrics included, \"Heavy downbeat of one and the show began/London calling, strike up the contraband\" and the memorable opening to the chorus, \"We wore pictures of Strummer.\"\n\nAttila the Stockbroker's Barnstormer released \"Comandante Joe\" on their 2004 album \"Zero Tolerance\".\n\nIn February 2005, the Class 47 locomotive 47828 was named \"Joe Strummer\". The nameplates were unveiled by his widow Lucinda Tait in a ceremony at Bristol Temple Meads railway station. On 22 July 2005 Tait unveiled a plaque on the house in Pentonville, Newport where Strummer lived from 1973 to 1974 and where his first foray into recorded music, \"Crummy Bum Blues\" was recorded.\n\n\"That Was Clash Radio\", a 2005 short story which Charles de Lint, wrote in response to Strummer's death featuring Strummer in a minor role.\n\nNew Orleans-based rockers Cowboy Mouth released a song called \"Joe Strummer\" on their 2006 album \"Voodoo Shoppe\". The song tells the story of a man who had to break up with his girlfriend because \"... she didn't know who/Joe Strummer was.\"\n\nA play by Paul Hodson called \"Meeting Joe Strummer\" premiered at the 2006 Edinburgh Festival, and toured the UK the following year.\n\nIn conjunction with the Strummer estate, Fender released the Joe Strummer Tribute Telecaster, combining elements of Joe's main guitars, namely an attempt at the \"road worn\" finish of his 1966 Telecaster, which he used until his death. The first 1,500 guitars came with a Shepard Fairey designed \"Customisation kit\" with stickers and stencils, which resembled some of the designs Strummer used on his guitars.\n\nBoston Punk Rock Band Street Dogs recorded a tribute song called \"The General's Boombox\" on their 2007 album \"State of Grace\".\n\nNew Jersey's the Gaslight Anthem recorded the song \"I'da Called You Woody, Joe\" on their 2008 album \"Sink or Swim\".\n\nJoe Strummer's impact is referenced by the Hold Steady in the song \"Constructive Summer\", a song featured on their 2008 album \"Stay Positive\". In this song the band sings \"Raise a toast to Saint Joe Strummer. I think he might have been our only decent teacher.\"\n\nIn November 2009, Tonara, a town in Sardinia, Italy, dedicated a street to Joe Strummer.\n\nOn 22 December 2010, CJAM 99.1 FM, a radio station in Windsor, Ontario, Canada, declared the eighth anniversary of Strummer's death the \"Joe Strummer Day to confront poverty in Windsor-Detroit.\" For 24-hours, the station played nothing but Strummer-related music, wrapping the sounds around reports about poverty from North America's hardest hit economic region—Windsor-Detroit. CJAM (which is located near the banks of the Detroit River, a kilometre from downtown Detroit) and its board of directors have since decided to make it an annual event, and hosted its 7th Annual Joe Strummer Day on 22 December 2016.\n\nIn January 2011 a motion was started to grant Strummer his own street in the Spanish city of Granada.\n\nOn 21 August 2012 which would have been Strummer's 60th birthday, Hellcat Records released an exclusive 57 song digital download album titled \"Joe Strummer and the Mescaleros, The Hellcat Years\". The album features Strummer's three Hellcat albums along with various b-sides and live songs including Strummer's 15 November 2002 concert with Mick Jones. Hellcat announced to re-release remastered versions of Strummer's three Hellcat records on both CD and vinyl in September 2012. Hellcat released Strummer's 15 Nov. 2002 concert, \"Live at Acton Town Hall\" on 23 November 2012 as an exclusive limited to 2200 copies 2 LP vinyl for Record Store Day.\n\nIn January 2013, Joe Strummer had a plaza named in his honour in the Spanish city of Granada. Placeta Joe Strummer is at N37.16892 W3.58771 (722m) on a junction between three narrow roads the Calle Vistillas de Los Angeles, the Cuesta Escoriaza and the Calle Paseo Palmas. About 650m south of the Alhambra.\n\nIn June 2013 a mural of Strummer was unveiled on the corner of Portobello Road and Blenheim Crescent and attended by a number of Strummer's former friends including Mick Jones and Ray Gange.\n\nIn an October 2013 interview, Mick Jones confirmed that Strummer had intentions of reforming the Clash and new music was even being written. In the months prior to Strummer's death, he and Jones got together to write new music. Jones said at the time he assumed the new songs would be used on albums with the Mescaleros. A few months following their work together, Jones ran into Strummer at an event and asked him what he intended to do with those songs. Strummer informed Jones that they were going to be used for the next Clash record.\n\nIn 2016, actor Jonathan Rhys Meyers portrayed Strummer in the film \"London Town\" which tells the story of a Clash-obsessed teenager who crosses paths with Joe Strummer by happenstance in 1979 and finds his life changing as a result. The film was met with mostly negative reviews.\n\nIt was discovered following Strummer's death that he was an archivist of his own work, having barns full of writings and tapes. Over 20,000 items were stored in the Joe Strummer archive and on 28, September 2018, a 32 song compilation album titled \"Joe Strummer 001\" will be released. The album, which was overseen by Strummer's widow Linda and producer Robert Gordon McHarg III, will feature 32 songs, 12 of which have never been released. The set spans Strummer's career from The 101ers to the Mescaleros and will feature some unheard demos from The Clash following the departure of Mick Jones along with an unreleased song recorded by Jones and Strummer in 1986. The set will also feature two of Strummer's final recordings.\n\nIn September 2018, Warner/Chappell Music signed a publishing contract with the Strummer estate. The deal includes Strummer's solo career, \"Cut the Crap\" by the Clash, the soundtracks to three films, and his compositions with the 101ers and the Mescaleros.\n\nStrummer's main guitar throughout his career was a 1966 Fender Telecaster that he acquired in its original sunburst finish during the middle of 1975, when he was playing with The 101ers. After joining The Clash, the guitar's body and pickguard were refinished in grey auto primer and then painted black. Over the years, the guitar would see numerous sticker configurations, with the most prominent and longest-lasting one stating \"Ignore Alien Orders\". Years of heavy wear and taped on setlets remain on the guitar to this day, and the only known modifications to it included the installation of an individual, 6-saddle bridge, and Fender \"f-style\" tuning machines.\n\nIn 2012 modern artist Karl Haglund paid tribute to this guitar in one of his iconic guitar paintings. The Fender Custom Shop has created a Joe Strummer tribute Telecaster with a reliced flat black finish.\n\nStrummer was naturally left-handed, but was taught to play guitar right-handed by his close friend Tymon Dogg. Strummer had reckoned his left-handedness on a right-hand guitar as a drawback and claimed it caused him to be underdeveloped as a guitarist, although his style of playing was unique.\n\nHe also used three Fender Esquire models, one from 1952, a white blonde with slab fretboard from the mid-1950s and another from early to mid-1960s with a white pick guard and rosewood fingerboard. The Esquire is a one-pickup version of the Telecaster. Prior to using any Telecaster oriented guitar, before buying his 1966 model, he used as main guitars a Gretsch White Falcon and a 1964 Hofner Verithin. For amplification Strummer was known to use amplifiers such as a Roland Jazz Chorus, a Selmer Bassman while he was in the 101ers, a Vox AC30 and various Marshall amplifiers, but his main amplifier was a Music Man HD 212,150. Strummer commented on his choice of amplifier with \"I don't have time to search for those old Fender tube amps. The Music Man is the closest thing to that sound I've found\" and that the \"plastic motif on the front is repulsive.\"\n\n\"Let's Rock Again!\" is a 2004 one-hour music documentary, directed by Dick Rude, which follows Strummer touring in America and Japan with the Mescaleros and premiered at the Tribeca Film Festival in New York, May 2004.\n\n\"\" is a 2006 biography of Strummer by Chris Salewicz.\n\n\"\" is a 2007 documentary about Joe Strummer by Julien Temple. It comprises archive footage of him spanning his life, and interviews with friends, family, and other celebrities. It debuted at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival.\n\n\"Tribute Concert: Cast a Long Shadow\" is a recording of the October 2007 tribute and benefit concert held in honour of Joe Strummer in Los Angeles. It features Love & Rockets, Zander Schloss, Hellride and many other artists, released in DVD format in December 2010.\n\n\"Let Fury Have the Hour\" is a 2012 documentary directed by Antonino D'Ambrosio, in which the figure of Strummer \"looms large in the background\". The movie debuted at the 2012 Tribeca Film Festival.\n\n\"Quiero tener una ferretería en Andalucía\" is a 2014 documentary about Joe Strummer's relationship with Andalucia, and especially with Almeria, where he lived in the 1980s and '90s.\n\n\"I Need a Dodge! Joe Strummer on the Run\" is a 2015 documentary by Nick Hall. It revolves around Strummer's life in Spain and tells the story of the mysterious disappearance of his beloved Dodge convertible.\n\nBooks\n\nFilms and documentaries\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21392909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21392909", "title": "Julie Estelle", "text": "Julie Estelle\n\nJulie Estelle Gasnier (born January 4, 1989) is an Indonesian actress and model. Her first leading role in 2005 at the age of 15 was in the drama \"Alexandria\", followed by the horror film \"Kuntilanak\" in 2006 (known as \"The Chanting\" in English), and two sequels in 2007 and 2008. Although she previously said she would not make another horror film, she took a role in horror movie \"Rumah Dara\" in early 2010, and the movie was a huge hit. Internationally, she is best known for her roles as Ladya in \"Macabre\" (2009) and Hammer Girl in \"The Raid 2\" (2014).\n\nJulie Estelle was born on January 4, 1989, in Jakarta, Indonesia, the daughter of Thierry Gasnier, a French-American, and Hilda Limbara, a Chinese-Indonesian. She is the second of three children. Her older sister is Cathy Sharon, a TV host and actress, and her younger sister is Charlotte Christie, a businesswoman. Estelle attended Lycee International Francais de Jakarta, an International French school in Jakarta, and graduated from high school in June 2007.\n\nEstelle began to be known since playing in the movie \"Alexandria\" (2005) which is also her first film. Through this film, Estelle was nominated as the \"Most Favorite Rising Star\" for MTV Indonesia Awards and won it. She also starred in \"Dealova\", \"Kuntilanak\", and \"Selamanya\". In addition to being a model she also has appeared in several Indonesian music videos.\n\nEstelle joined Gareth Evans' \"Berandal\", the sequel of 2011 hit \"\" as Hammer Girl, a female fighter proficient in Silat harimau. Evans was impressed with her acting during the casting test and decided to choose her in spite of her lack of martial arts background. For the role of Hammer Girl, she trained in pencak silat under Yayan Ruhian who is also the co-choreographer of the film.\n\nShe had a relationship with Indonesian racer Moreno Suprapto but broke up with him in 2008. She was featured on the cover of Playboy Magazine's Indonesian edition in July 2006 right after she had turned 17.\n"}
{"id": "2549668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2549668", "title": "Khnumhotep and Niankhkhnum", "text": "Khnumhotep and Niankhkhnum\n\nKhnumhotep (pronunciation: xaˈnaːmaw-ˈħatpew) and Niankhkhnum (pronunciation: nij-daˌnax-xaˈnaːmaw) were ancient Egyptian royal servants. They shared the title of Overseer of the Manicurists in the Palace of King Nyuserre Ini, sixth pharaoh of the Fifth Dynasty, reigning during the second half of the 25th century BC. They were buried together at Saqqara and are listed as \"royal confidants\" in their joint tomb.\n\nKhnumhotep and Niankhkhnum were ancient Egyptian royal servants and are believed by Thomas Dowson, Greg Reeder, and some other scholars to be the first recorded same-sex couple in history. The proposed romantic relationship between Khnumhotep and Niankhkhnum is based on depictions of the two men standing nose to nose and embracing. Niankhkhnum's wife, depicted in a banquet scene, was almost completely erased in antiquity, and in other pictures Khnumhotep occupies the position usually designated for a wife. Their official titles were \"Overseers of the Manicurists of the Palace of the King\" (see sections Titularies, Banquents and music). Critics argue that both men appear with their respective wives and children, suggesting the men were brothers, rather than lovers.\n\nKhnumhotep and Niankhkhnum are depicted in the tomb with their respective families. It has been proposed that they were the sons of Khabaw-khufu and Rewedzawes. They appear to have had three brothers named Titi, Nefernisut, and Kahersetef. Three possible sisters are also attested. They are named Neferhotep-hewetherew, Mehewet and Ptah-heseten. Niankhkhnum's wife was named Khentikawes. The couple appear in the tomb with three sons named Hem-re, Qed-unas and Khnumhezewef, and three daughters, Hemet-re, Khewiten-re and Nebet. At least one grandson is attested, Irin-akheti, the son of Hem-re and his wife, Tjeset.\n\nKhnumhotep had a wife by the name of Khenut. Khnumhotep and Khenut had at least five sons named Ptahshepses, Ptahneferkhu, Kaizebi, Khnumheswef and Niankhkhnum the younger (possibly named after the tomb owner), as well as a daughter named Rewedzawes.\n\nEgyptian tombs feature lists of titles and epithets honoring the deceased or held during life, often giving titles for other persons who appear on a wall, as in the funeral procession scene discussed in another section of this article. Inscriptions embodied magic. Informing visitors merely a secondary purpose, Ipet in his 4th Dynasty Meidum tomb regards the hieroglyphs as \"his gods;\" the animal heads surmounting certain gods' bodies were also readable as words. For Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep, the titulary may be condensed as follows:\n\nHeld by either or both men\n\nRepresentative items empaneled here do not exhaust the set. These titles related to each man's job in the bureaucratic state, but more importantly, signified rank and power relative to other officials at court. They also help date burials, as changes in the mix of titles in circulation and in the way they were spelled are well-documented. The \"wab\"-priests, armed with brooms, handled cleanliness, ritual purity, and portage of offerings in areas of the temple outside the inner sanctuary where the god's cult statue was kept and where the higher, \"Hm nTr\" priests worked. We see that a \"Hm nTr\" at the solar temple was not above putting in stints as a humbler \"wab\" at the pyramid complex—if his titulary reflects his actual work, a matter deeply in question.\n\nTranslation of Egyptian terms varies considerably between authors: Raymond O. Faulkner's 1962 concise dictionary (p. 239) renders titulary noun \"sHD\" as \"inspector\" based on New Kingdom historical sources, with added question mark. Ranier Hannig, from period sources, calls the \"sHD\" an \"Untervorsteher\" (subordinate official), of rank lower than the \"m-r\"; in particular, the \"sHD jrj.w an.wt pr aA\" who supervises manicurists in the palace is an Untervorsteher. Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep held the title \"m-r\" \"overseer\" of the manicurists in addition to their \"sHD\" stations. \"Thesaurus Linguae Aegyptiae\" has followed Hannig on this issue, but cautions that its text translations, here taken from Moussa & Altenmüller's 1977 publication of the tomb, are not definitive. Baud considers emerging local overlordships and subdivision of the bureaucracy in the Old Kingdom the primary phenomena responsible for multiple titles pertaining to one occupational field.\n\nUncertainty increases when abstract concepts are at hand: Old Kingdom pyramids were named using constructions scholars haven't yet parsed completely, so that modern book translations only gloss the original meanings. For instance, to English-speaking ears, the near-synonyms \"abide\" and \"endure\" display a species difference within the genus of \"things which survive a long time,\" the former more animate than the latter, yet both can be used to translate the word \"mn\" found in 5th and 6th Dynasty pyramid names.\n\nWe should note the two temples mentioned, the solar and the one beside the pyramid, are distinct, about a mile (1.5 km) apart in the Abusir-Abu Ghurab necropolis district southwest of modern Cairo, and, like most cemeteries, sited in the desert just beyond reach of the annual Nile flood. Each 5th Dynasty pyramid furthermore came with two temple enclosures, a mortuary establishment in the shadow of the pyramid itself and a valley temple at the edge of the cultivated land, a causeway connecting these. The solar temple had similar auxiliary structures.\n\nSuspicion that Nyuserre, the most prolific of the 5th-Dynasty monument builders, usurped his predecessor Neferirkare's valley temple and causeway for his own pyramid project arises, even in popular literature, as his causeway runs directly toward Neferirkare's pyramid a considerable distance before detouring, a thing no other causeway at Abusir does. Such usurpation is common, and not necessarily directed at promoting self in lieu of family line: New Kingdom practice of Thutmose III while erasing Hatshepsut’s cartouches at Medinet Habu was to substitute not his own cartouches, but those of Thutmoses I and II, his immediate ancestors. Ladislav Bareš, of the Czech Egyptological school which has excavated at Abusir and Saqqara over decades, believes Neferirkare was Nyuserre’s father, and that the elder died leaving mortuary construction unfinished. In this case, completion of family dynastic monumental statements, not usurpation, would be the applicable motive. (Observe that the 5th and most other numbered dynasties in Egypt cover more than one family line.) Ćwiek demurs, but places 'usurpation' in single quotes. The result was an unusual L-shaped floor plan in a location shoehorned between existing pyramids and mastabas, a problem the sun temple escaped.\nThe title \"Hrj sStA\" \"keeper of the secrets\" is attested for 13 individuals during the Old Kingdom, at least once elaborated to the form \"Hr sStA mdw-nTr\" \"keeper of the secrets of the god's words,\" meaning the hieroglyphic language used on monuments. In contrast with the hieratic script used for everyday record-keeping, already an elite activity no more than one percent of the population engaged in, the content of hieroglyphic texts was closely controlled property of the state and permission from the king was probably required for inscriptions in one's tomb, as we see in a royal authorization for Rawer, an official under Neferirkare buried at Giza, to do so. Indeed, the 5th Dynasty marks the appearance in quantity of extended prose documents carrying legal force.\n\nThe Pyramid Texts (in prefatory stages of development during Nyuserre's reign, then first inscribed in and around the burial chamber of King Unas) were reserved for royals only; a democratization of magic spells for the afterlife which would yield the Coffin Texts and Book of the Dead remained yet to come, although physical offering goods royal mortuary texts called for could be listed by name and icon in private tombs, and offering formulas for non-royal burials were available. (The term \"democratization\" and the process attending it is a topic of research and controversy.) The \"Hrj sStA\" was at times in charge of enforcing these rules, or at least the will of the king expressed through the vizier, as shown by the 6th-Dynasty tomb of Khenu at Deir el-Gabrawi: Khenu held the title \"Hrj sStA n Hwt wrt\" \"chief of secrets in the great hut,\" the vizier's bureau. In parallel with the rise of legal documents, the Pyramid Texts increased the complexity of religion, adding the Osirian underworld to the deceased's experience in complementarity with already-prevalent solar themes.\n\n\"jmAx xr nTr aA\" \"honored one near the great god\" is a euphemism for \"dead,\" appearing frequently in tombs and on slab stelae, even though it, like the word (and goddess) \"mAat\", evokes a multifarious idealization of relationships between social and cosmological ranks.\n\nEpithets beginning with \"jmAx\" are common throughout Egyptian history from the 4th Dynasty on, tending toward greater specificity in later periods. An official or family member could possess several, both \"jmAx xr nTr aA\" \"honored before the great god\" (when dead) and \"jmAx xr nswt\" \"honored before the king\" (presumably in life). It is important to realize that king and god themselves can be one and the same, especially upon death, as Amenemhat I would be in the early Middle Kingdom story of Sinuhe. The goal of kingship, after maintaining social order (\"mAat\") in Egypt, was to ascend and unite with the sun disk of Heliopolitan theology, maintained from Old Kingdom until the arrival of Christianity.Since \"jmAx\" can also be translated as \"provided for,\" the connection an official's tomb holds with royal subsidy is made implicit; although officials built their tombs using mainly their own resources once the 4th Dynasty (and Khufu's largess at Giza) ended.\n\nIf the efficacy of \"jmAx\" status in garnering support from the living world is unknown, the title holders were expected to confer favors in return, from the necropolis as beings in their afterlife corpora, denoted by the word \"Ax\" \"akh\" and perceived as effective against illness or through dreams. Respects paid the dead were a crucial matter: Egyptians wrote letters to them, an activity which peaked during the Old and Middle Kingdoms. Royal mortuary cults continued operations at Abusir through the end of the 6th Dynasty; maintenance for private cults being less secure. Saqqara was still receiving interments of officials in the Middle and New Kingdom periods, where a hypothesis that burial grounds were segregated according to professional line has been advanced; this is uncertain, as is whether the pattern was based on older precedent. The 1st Dynasty drew such a pattern in stark outlines: Kings chose Abydos while the dignitaries were buried at Saqqara, but not so in the 2nd, when royal burials at Saqqara alongside officials commenced.\n\nThe tomb of Khnumhotep and Niankhkhnum was discovered by Egyptologist Ahmed Moussa in the necropolis at Saqqara, Egypt in 1964, during the excavation of the causeway for the pyramid of King Unas. It is the only tomb in the necropolis where men are displayed embracing and holding hands. In addition, the men's chosen names (both theophorics to the creator-god Khnum) form a linguistic reference to their closeness: Niankhkhnum means \"life belongs to Khnum\" and Khnumhotep means \"Khnum is satisfied;\" both names honor the god of pottery, responsible for shaping the human body before its birth, as in the midwife episode of Papyrus Westcar, where King Khufu's children are born. Khnum, active in the Elephantine Island region (the first Nile cataract, near modern Aswan), was also associated with the onset of the annual Nile inundation, especially during the early Dynastic period.\n\nThe precise king and regnal date of this tomb are unknown; style places it in the latter 5th Dynasty under Nyuserre or Menkauhor. No human remains were discovered inside. It is believed the tomb was built in stages, first a sequence of two chambers cut into the limestone of a low escarpment in the northern area of Saqqara, then a surface-built mastaba structure added to mate with the earlier construction. This would have occurred as the two intended occupants gained resources.\n\nIn a banquet scene (treated in a later section), Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep are entertained by dancers, clappers, musicians and singers; in another, they oversee their funeral preparations. In the most striking portrayal, the two embrace, noses touching, in the most intimate pose allowed by canonical Egyptian art, surrounded by what would appear to be their heirs. The superstructure of their tomb \n\nThe Old Kingdom necropolis revolved around the king's pyramid complex and its satellite cemeteries, in which queens, princes, and high officials were interred, queens often in small pyramids of their own, others entombed in underground apartments but memorialized above ground by a substantial building for the deceased's offering chapels and grave goods, the mastaba. This rectangular monument is often 60 feet (18m) or more on its long side and 15 feet (5m) high, and erected directly over the burial site. At Giza, these tombs formed a city of the dead, laid out on a grid of streets and avenues, although later in this article, we see that the necropolis was a bustling center of activity for the living. Layout at Saqqara is similar but less regular. Maps of Saqqara and of Abusir, the home of Nysurre's pyramid, are online at Rice University and at Tour Egypt, a brief overview at the latter.\n\nDuring initial development of the necropolis at Saqqara in the 2nd and 3rd Dynasties, the mastaba, a mud-brick and/or limestone superstructure built on the surface over a shaft leading to the actual burial chamber below ground, had an elaborate niched and fluted façade. This is called the palace serekh design. The 4th Dynasty simplified the mastaba so that those of Khufu's reign at Giza, as well as the 5th Dynasty monuments at Saqqara, have smooth sides; Niankhknum and Khnumhotep's beautifully restored structure encased in stone. The exterior has a batter angle like a fortress, the wall sloped back as it rises, except for the topmost course, which forms a vertical cornice.\n\nUnfortunately, the artwork inside did not always fare as well. Some of the blocks were re-used in Unas' causeway and nearly all of them, whether removed from situ or not, suffered moisture and salt damage. Preservation improves in the rock-cut section. Most of the reliefs are legible enough for line drawings to be made of them; allowing their texts and graphical data to come down to us.\n\nWe progress inward from the tomb entrance as a visitor would. A two-pillared portico makes up the eastern half of the mastaba's façade. The front is inscribed with Niankhkhnum depicted on the left, Khnumhotep on the right. These two reliefs are virtually identical, only the names being different.\n\nThis space is fairly small. The west side is decorated with a funerary procession for Niankhkhnum and the east side shows a matching funerary procession for Khnumhotep.\n\nThe uppermost south wall shows the two men seated before an offering table. Niankhkhnum is seated on the right, while Khnumhotep is seated on the left. The table with offerings stretches out between them. Below the offering scene the two men are depicted netting fowl and fishing. On the left, below this lintel, Khnumhotep stands on a papyrus boat, spearing fish in the water that floods the bases of papyrus stalks he drifts among. He is accompanied by his wife Khenut, sons and a daughter. On the right, Niankhkhnum is depicted in a similar manner, aiming his throw stick at the waterfowl although the active arm is now missing from this piece. The birds flush at the disturbance. He is accompanied by his wife Khentkawes, who was a priestess of Hathor, and sons and a daughter as well. Such hunting in its various forms has been a pursuit of the entitled nobility throughout history. Note that the wives are sniffing lotus blossoms as they hang their free arms upon the legs of their husbands. This scene is a composite made by subtracting a doorway which actually stands between the two men's boats in the tomb; done here to save space. However, one might be tempted to read it as if the door weren't there; analogous Egyptian murals exist with no splitting of the scene into two halves, often with the same person performing the fishing and fowling on both boats. The 18th Dynasty Theban tomb of Nakht (TT52) was an instance. Egyptians would understand a convention that the person engaged in the two activities at consecutive times. Here, since two friends are present, they can be imagined doing it together. The families come along for the outing, drawn at much smaller scales to show relative social status. Their names and titles are written beside each.\n\nAt the entrance scenes of baking bread and brewing beer are depicted. Barley is carefully measured out and turned into bread. Some of the bread is mixed with a date beverage and fermented to produce some type of beer. Other scenes include goat herding, ship building, harvesting scenes, sailing, netting of birds, etc. The east wall contains a legal text. Below this text several people are depicted thought to be the family of the two men. At the very bottom ships are shown. The men are shown standing before the main cabin of the ship.\nAn undecorated space which serves to connect the vestibule and chambers on the north end of the mastaba with the abutting rock-cut sections of the tomb to their south. Modern security grates now obstruct much of the full sun that would have flooded this small, walled yard, yet little or no sun fell on the vestibule to the outer rock-cut hall described below, as its entrance faces north.\n\nThis should not be confused with the previously-mentioned vestibule at the public entrance; here we are arriving from an enclosed court. With names, titles, and standing portraits of the two men, it is much smaller than the other vestibule and without pillars. The lintel's inside surface features another cattle count scene, and each tomb owner appears on one of the side walls with his wife, amid a flow of yet more offerings from the herds.\n\nThis outer hall, an antechamber to the final, inner hall, marks the tomb's first, rock-cut phase of construction, and is fully decorated. Before the mastaba was added, it would have been the first room a visitor entered after passing through the forecourt, which was relocated northeast to the far side of the mastaba where it is now. Here, people engage in agricultural occupations including the weighing of corn and grain, the ploughing of fields, and harvesting.\n\nA double doorway to the inner hall is on the west wall, with a broad pillar dividing the doors. Its surface depicts the two men, their children, drawn much smaller to reflect a lesser status, in tow behind each parent. The respective wives do not appear in this scene. Niankhkhnum has three sons and three daughters, Khnumhotep five sons and one daughter, some of whom may be adopted or conceived by a second wife or mistress as they lack the shendyt kilts worn by the others. All the children except Niankhkhnum's youngest son, who still runs naked with his shaved head bearing the single sidelock of youth, are adults despite the scale they are drawn at. Ptahshepses (not the vizier discussed below), a son of Khnumhotep, wore the youth sidelock in the marsh scene of the forecourt but not so here. Either inconsistency intrudes, or the art, completed over years, reflects some changes of status which transpire during the tomb's construction.\n\nEntering either of the double doors, we note more registers, of birds and of men leading animals, on the thicknesses of the jambs. Now on the reverse side of the dividing pillar, we see Niankhknum and Khnumhotep embracing again, and a third time on the opposite wall of this small chamber. They are without their children in this innermost sanctuary. Each man has a \"false door,\" a carved, slot-like niche surrounded by inscriptions which was produced in the royal workshops and installed in the tomb. Niankhknum's is seriously damaged. The false door provided an accessway for the deceased, as a spiritual being, to reach offerings left at the tomb by the living. These offerings were to be set on plinths in front of the false doors. Behind the false doors is a small statue closet known as the serdab. A statue of each man would have been placed here, facing the chamber as if to watch visitors come and go, but invisible to the offering-bringers since the false doors are actually solid. Unfortunately, it appears that tomb robbers removed the statues in antiquity; they are no longer extant.\n\nFrontalism in art poses a problem the artist must solve when rendering persons who face one another or sit together: This style makes it less obvious that the two men are facing each other in an embrace. Only heads and legs orient that way in profile; the torso must be shown in frontal aspect. Side-by-side seating puts one person behind the other in a \"doubled\" chair, as in the banquet scene (Banquets and music section below). Variety of plant species in a wetland can result in a \"composite\" plant being painted. The integrated false doors of Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep face the pair of real doors by which people enter the tiny room. The common door frame for the false doors is covered with offering texts (see image in Titulary section). Not only is each transom provided with an offering table scene, the side walls repeat it, for each man, yet now combine it with gathering of goods from the fields. Activity of the butchers receives special emphasis in the lowest, \"foreground\" registers on both side walls. Niankhkhnum takes the ideologically more favorable south half of the inner hall, but otherwise the two are treated equally.\nAccording to Taylor, belief that the deceased physically occupies the grave or tomb dates back to predynastic times, when goods including tools and weapons were placed in the grave during the funeral, a practice which inspired the palace serekh design we mentioned above: For high dignitaries, the early dynastic mastaba reflected the palace they had occupied during life; this \"tomb-as-residence\" idea remained current up through Roman Egypt, although by Nysuerre's day the art program had moved indoors, obviating the need for serrated exterior walls.\nBesides its unusual construction with both rock-cut and mastaba sections, this tomb is remarkable for the variety of offering-scene layouts and formulas introduced. Within the 5th Dynasty, it is an example of the invocation \"Htp dj nswt\" \"an offering the king gives...\" to the god, here Anubis, the jackal-headed deity of embalming, in a role that marks royal support for the burial. In all such formulas, the deceased is understood as ultimate beneficiary, as the specified food, drink, raiment, and luxury goods are meant to sustain the ka component of a person's soul in the afterlife. Allen's grammatical analysis of this formula identifies the god (Osiris, Anubis, or Wepwawet) as the \"agent\" of the gift via direct genitive connection between the god's name and the combination \"Htp-dj-nswt\", which he takes as a compound word. In his interpretation, the god, acting physically through the king, blesses the deceased.\n\nAs seen above, offerings can occur at table, with the tomb owner seated before them, or in the field with workers delivering them to the owner. The latter can be considered tributary due to the owner's status under royal patronage; in temples they may devolve to the local or state gods in question and are usually tendered by the king. In such cases, the terms \"jnw\" \"that which is brought\" and \"bAkw\" \"works done\" come into play. The main point is that they are royal transactions, either diplomatic, when the king receives from foreign emissaries, or redistributive, as when taxes in kind flow to the royal magazines or temples.\n\nAltenmüller discusses another kind of offering, the \"nDt-Hr\" \"greeting,\" extended to a private citizen although undoubtedly as reward for service to the crown. These come from estates (\"njwwt\" \"towns\") the king has granted the deceased, or which the latter has inherited in the line of succession to a grant made in a previous generation. The depictions emphasize agricultural produce—wine, figs, raisins—and desert animals, brought in procession under the watchful eye of a scribe, who holds his inventory sheet at far left in the illustration. Circled in red is a text for viewing the \"nDt-Hr\"-offerings:\n\n\"mAA nDt-Hr jnnt m njwwt.f nbt\"\n\"See the greetings-offerings which are being brought from all his villages.\"\n\nThe formulas in the tomb of Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep refer anachronistically to the \"pr-dSrt\" \"red house,\" a collections and storage center which had not been active since the 3rd Dynasty. In these greetings offerings, no invocation to the god is made.\nThe banquet scene (first image) shows Niankhkhnum clean-shaven (left) and Khnumhotep (wearing a short beard) seated facing one another across comestibles spread between, each with his own breadboard table. Set off by a baseline, this is read separately from the two registers of entertainment below them. A different upper register substitutes in the contemporary Saqqara tomb of Ti (next image), where no food is present with the owner, who is seated holding a scepter, his wife (drawn at half-scale) by his feet.\n\nDining scenes in Egyptian art refer to the afterlife, often in groups seated on the ground as the large dinner tables familiar to us were unknown to Egypt. Ritual purity becomes a matter of special concern in this context: Museums exhibit the ceramic washing bowls, one to pour from and one to catch the dribbling water. Magical utterances and libation precede the meal of the dead; in the soon-forthcoming Pyramid Texts of Unas, we read\n\n\"These your cool waters, Osiris—these your cool waters, oh Unis…I have come having gotten Horus’s eye, (Spell 21). Wash yourself, Unis, and part your mouth with Horus’s eye. You shall summon your ka—namely, Osiris—and he shall defend you from every wrath of the dead. Unis, receive to yourself this your bread, which is Horus’s eye (Spell 66).\"\n\nAlthough no 5th Dynasty private tombs call the owner Osiris or mention Horus' eye, Taylor indicates some elements of what became the Pyramid Texts were adapted for non-royal use; particularly the \"qbH\" \"libation\" water streaming from a red jar on the slab stela of Nefret-iabet (Louvre 15591, Dyn. 4, reign of Khufu), afront her face so as to suggest its use directly. Ziegler calls this a funeral meal as well as an offering table scene, yet it must have taken place after her death, if at all, given that linen for her mummy is specified on the piece's right half. Numerals \"1000\" count most of the items pictured, clearly demonstrating the stela's purpose as an offering list. By invocation and magic, if the living were to stop donating to her tomb establishment, then she would still be provided for. The \"one thousand in beer, one thousand in bread\" phrases which introduce Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep's offering table in the rock-cut section of their tomb evokes stelae such as Neferet-iabet's, themselves once affixed to mastaba facades as found in situ for Wep-em-neferet (possible husband of Nefret-iabet) at Khufu's Giza cemetery. The heart is never eaten and remains absent from offering lists.\n\nThe upper register of Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep (corresponding to Ti's) resembles these scenes on slab stelae, without text beyond the two men's names and titles. Niankhkhnum's wife, seated next to him at the left edge, has been erased; the doubled chair and partially visible label on this side reveals her. She was a \"rxt nswt\" \"king's acquaintance.\" Clearly the ensemble of musicians and dancers is formulaic, as this tomb and Ti's bear similar graphic layouts. Nonetheless, a written music program preserves the orders an instructor-maestro (labeled as such by the word \"sbA\" behind his head) gives his troupe, accompanied by \"mmt\"- and \"mAt\"-flutes and \"sqr m bnt\" \"plucking of the harps:\"\n\n\"Hsjt j.jrj m nw n snwj ntrwj pr r.k jr.s\"\n\"Singing: Do it thus for the two divine brothers: Begin for them now,\" the instructor exhorts (hieroglyphs near center right in banquet scene image under the section heading; these are circled in red). About it we hear a mysterious comment:\n\n\"m.k Trf jTt\" \"Look, the \"Trf\"-dance is taken\" (lower left corner of image, not circled).\n\nAll the men in the second register who aren't playing an instrument are clapping or slapping their thighs except the instructor, standing bent forward at far right. Fourth from left, named Ankhredwi-nesut and playing a flute, is someone who may know the tomb owners, as he is mentioned several times on other walls of this tomb. In the bottom register, another woman, Hemet-Re, possibly Niankhkhnum's daughter and entitled a \"keeper of the king's things,\" stands before six \"Hst\" \"female singers\" at her right. She is backed by seven \"jbAw\" \"male dancers\" with hands upraised. Fourth from left in this register is the person who announces that the dance has been taken, clapping as he does so. In front of him, a pair of men kneel. Each clasps one of the other's hands overhead while pointing his other arm toward the ground. Altenmüller has more recently refined the translation to read, \"Singing, in this (tomb) as the offering ritual is performed. The (song) of the divine brother. Go up to him.\" This English wording folds the divine brothers into a song title, reducing their number to just one.\n\nObserving that festive scenes are more concentrated at Saqqara than elsewhere during the 5th Dynasty, Altenmüller goes on to compare several scenes from this genre, placing them in the context of a family and the gods it associates with, which becomes a heritable scheme along with the titles. At Saqqara, many reliefs involve sniffing the lotus blossom, an activity we saw Khentikawes engage in during her husband's bird hunt. Returning our gaze to the top register above the music, we see that Khnumhotep is holding a lotus blossom in his lap with his left hand. If he is watching the dancers, they are in front of him, not in a basement below. Complexities encountered in music and dance remain poorly understood today, although Allen thinks that literature was written in meter as well. Officials, who sometimes were women, presided over musical festivities: In a 4th Dynasty mastaba at Giza, the owner Ity and his wife both bore the \"rx nswt\" \"king's acquaintance\" title:\n\n\"rx nswt jmj-r Hxt pr aA jtj rx nswt Hmt.f mrt.f wsrt-kA\" \"Acquaintance of the king, master of the king's music\nAcquaintance of the king, his wife, his beloved Wasretka.\"\nOn the adjoining east wall, near another seated portrait of Khnumhotep, a carpenter makes a furniture item probably used at banquets: a portable wooden recliner or backrest, an angled plate set on the ground or on a bench to lean against, so that one is lying down with upper body propped up. Furniture, vital to the deceased's sense of wellness, was placed inside the tomb before it was sealed, as were amulets and adornment: To the right, closer to Niankhnum and the banquet scene, are jewelers at work. Banqueting could take place in the \"presence\" of the king even if persons of differing rank did not eat together: A relief from Sahure's causeway shows (in part) a feast craftsmen and their overseers enjoy at the king's behest, divine presence signified by the lion emerging beside a papyrus umbel; the goddesses Bastet and Sekhmet are associated with royal sustenance at the mortuary complex. In the tomb of Iny (late Dynasty 6), a boastful text explains this:\n\n\"I was seated eating bread in the (royal) daily round, and great was His Person's (\"Hm.f\", the king) satisfaction at seeing me eat, more [so] than [for] any peer of mine.\"\n\nThis sentence, written a bit later historically, carries an autobiographical tone, blurring the distinction between life and hereafter, although we assume real-life, non-funerary meals must have been served at court. The tomb is largely a continuation of normal everyday life, the thing the dead wanted most: they were not excluded from the society of the living. At 5th Dynasty Saqqara, the deceased Rashepses can contemplate a sculptor reaching for a tray of fruit, even if with fewer words.\n\nConventions treating a limited number of themes made up the Old Kingdom art corpus; rules meant to relate what is shown on the wall with what happens in an ideal life, so that the dead can continue to have access to it. Egyptian perspective encompasses both space and time on the two-dimensional relief; heads, arms, and legs in profile but torso frontal. What is above may really lie behind; what is behind may be \"pluralized\" with multiple outlines as animals often are, while left and right sometimes represent consecutive action as discussed later. Statues of course look forward as expected. Figures face the tomb entrance where possible, looking out toward the world of the living. Lower registers tend to comprise foregrounds, denoting a venue closer to the reader than the top registers do. Seriation of episodes is read horizontally within a register, the people and objects assembled in groups distinguished by what they are doing or by the direction they face. Choice of sunk versus raised relief conveys meaning; the latter used in the intimate rear areas of tombs, the former at the entrance.\n\nFirst designed for royalty, art is extended to private citizens, minus the king's privileged contacts with deity. Niankhnum and Khnumhotep's tomb uses sunk relief at the entrance to its rock-cut section, which had faced the public before the owners added the mastaba. The two officials could emulate King Khafre's 4th Dynasty practice of gouging a titulary into pillars, but only in limestone, not the hard granodiorite Khafre used. The banquet scene exemplifies an Egyptian desire to impose structure on life and death, yet in an exuberant manner, its figures imbued with color.\nSince personal information modern reviewers desire is usually unavailable, a situation true for Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep, routines of daily life must be pieced together from archaeological inference or read between lines of surviving texts, all of which (including the accounting data) express elite viewpoints. Kemp discusses methods for obtaining knowledge under such constraints, pointing out that local religion came with a varnish distinct from that of the state cults. Art cannot be totally divorced from reality; the agricultural year and cattle counts seen on walls happened. Yet text orbits near myth. So the cattle count is as much ritual as systematic tax collection, and so a lion goddess, addressing King Nyuserre as \"my son,\" gives him milk from her teat at his valley temple.\n\nRelatively few Egyptians could read and write, skill among the literate distributed unevenly as well after schooling based upon individual tutelage—its ad hoc nature evidenced by mistranscription of hieratic source material by draftsmen (\"zXAw-qdwt\" \"outline scribes\") arranging formal inscriptions on walls and statues. Living conditions could turn harsh, even for middle classes: In a somewhat later, 12th Dynasty social context, the prosperous tenant farmer Heqanakht orders cutbacks for his household, citing that year's suboptimal Nile flood and hunger in the land. Insects ate a substantial fraction of stored grain supplies at New Kingdom Amarna, a condition we have little reason to imagine spared 5th Dynasty communities near Memphis. Iconography and portrait placement assign Niankhkhnum a slight priority over Khnumhotep in the joint tomb.\n\nA solar temple separate from the pyramid complex was a feature unique to the seven 5th-Dynasty kings from Userkaf to Menkauhor, of which two have been excavated in modern times. Nyuserre's was richly decorated with reliefs, today in a fragmentary condition. These temples centered on worship of the \"bn-bn\" \"Benben\" stone, a cultural artifact inherited from the predynastic era and, by alliteration, tied to the Benu Bird, a theme of plenty later in the Book of the Dead. Where Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep spent most of their day cannot be determined; the palace, the solar or the pyramid temple, or their own residential compounds all possibilities. The solar temple was used, however, for the king's \"hb-sd\" \"Heb-sed,\" the festival celebrating his 30th anniversary on the throne. Nyuserre's reliefs depict, as had Djoser's back in the 3rd Dynasty, the king watching tributary files pass in review and demonstrating his physical fitness in a game where he ran to and fro between two posts on a marshaling ground. While at least part of the king's funeral was held at the pyramid complex, his other major monument, the pyramid was never meant to be left unattended after services, as graves of modern heads of state are. Accounting papyri at Abusir detail a persistent mortuary cult's receipt of goods over decades.\n\nThe vizier, highest official beneath the king, handled Old Kingdom administration. Absent indexed state archives, business transactions proceeded face-to-face, or sometimes by letter while participants kept copies of any legal documents generated. Each proof might be in duplicate, one for consultation, the other sealed to frustrate tampering—by Ramesside times both ingeniously accommodated on the same papyrus roll, where the seal blocked only half its length. In other words, there were bureaus and scribes but no constitutional underpinnings behind them: Whoever held greatest personal influence at a given moment took the decisions and implemented these through his own patronage as best he could, an arrangement not noted for efficiency, yet remarkably effective in seeing a king's monuments through to completion.\n\nOn duty at the sun temple, Niankhkhnum or Khnumhotep may have watched over subordinate officials, such as the \"m-r pr Sna\" \"overseer of the magazines\" who in turn supervised crews of porters stocking and withdrawing material from the granaries and store-rooms. This suggests either that the \"m-r\" ranks below the \"Hm-nT\"r priest, at least within the temple enclosure, or that the appellations \"m-r\", \"sHD\", \"Hm-nTr\", and \"wab\" aren't reliable status indicators. Barta reports Helck's assertion that the \"pr Sna\" was a group of workshops making processed goods in the temple precinct. The Abusir papyri, a set of accounting spreadsheets, relates the \"pr Sna\" to the pyramid temple, where Niankhkhnum was \"only\" a \"wab\", adding to the confusion temple bureaucracy presents to scholars. It is clear no legal separation of temple from palace existed; Old Kingdom temples were named after the king, who also supported later temples dedicated to gods (such as Karnak). That theft could be a problem is seen in New Kingdom legal disputes; presumably the senior officials were expected to monitor it. A police captain is named and illustrated among the genuflectors in the funeral procession at the mastaba.\n\nCare of the king's body and wardrobe in preparation for his public appearances required a large number of aides, apparently working in different ateliers each under its own leadership. In addition to the manicurists whom Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep supervised (discussed in the titulary section of this article), the palace had attendants under one or more men holding the title \"jrj nfr HAt\" \"keeper of the headdress,\" responsible for the king's wigs and headcloths, \"jrw Snj\" \" hairdressers, who kept him shaven, and an \"m-r n jzwj Xkrwt nswt\" \"overseer of the two chambers of king's adorners.\" The post of \"Xkrt nswt\" \"adorner of the king\" was always held by women, who were legally, if not socially, equal to men in Egypt. Neferhotep-Hathor is labeled with this status at the funeral procession of Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep.\n\nHow, or how often, personnel in the hairdressers' shop, which from titulary evidence stands higher than the manicurists in 5th and 6th Dynasty prestige rankings, communicated with the latter remains unknown. No hairdressers are labeled at the funeral procession. Ptahshepses, the keeper of the headdress who became Nyussere's vizier, and Ti, overseer of the pyramids and sun temples, are two officials whom Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep may have worked with. They were buried at Abusir and Saqqara, respectively. Ti's large mastaba and extra titles suggest attainment of high rank. Both Khnumhotep and Niankhkhnum are attested on a harvest scene in the splendid burial estate of Ptahshepses, where they may have been quarry supervisors, yet named as \"jr ant pr aA\" \"palace manicurists,\" quite junior to titulary in their own tomb, which could mean Ptahshepses died while they were younger. A door jamb, besides \"TAtj\" \"vizier,\" displays the title \"HAt-a\" \"one whose arm is in front,\" a pure honorific Allen distinguishes from the \"m-r\" and \"jrj\" titles specifying responsibility domains we've encountered up to now. We observe that his \"jrj nfr HAt\" \"keeper of the headdress\" epithet, recorded in many of the rooms, is spelled with the mouth sign (Gardiner D21), not the eye sign (D4), so that it shares the introductory word of \"jrj-pat\" \"hereditary prince,\" another of Allen's honorifics. This fact traverses ground in explaining the apparently higher standing of the hairdressers' shop. Such arcane hierarchy isn't foreign to our own day, where the president of the United States commands TV makeup artists and speechwriters all having different effective ranks within the White House staff.\nLongevity and circumstances of the tomb owners' deaths are unknown. The limestone sarcophagi beneath the mastaba were ransacked and wooden coffins of later date interred in the burial chambers. Booth, citing others, adheres to the theory that Khnumhotep died first, leaving Niankhkhnum to complete the tomb's art. This conclusion was drawn from Khnumhotep's \"jmAx\" epithets (see Titulary section), a style of beard he wears, and exclusion of his wife at the banquet scene when Niankhknum's was originally there. Upon reaching the portico, the visitor beholds on the side walls men towing shrine boats along canals, the herald announcing them carrying a pole standard reminiscent of official colors at the king's Heb-Sed festival. Such boats might carry the mummy or statue of the deceased. There is a statue transported here; men and oxen in an upper register drag it overland in order to load it on the boat. Contra the impression we get from Jones' model boat, the statue is already inside its shrine before loading, so that the shrine structure seen on the boats here may actually belong to the cargo, a breakaway of material parts the model conceals from us. (That may apply to mummy boats, too, given their similar functionality.)\n\nMain presentation of the funeral is in the vestibule after the forecourt (see color photo in Tomb section), introduced by the two owners encouched arm-in-arm for dictation of a text giving legal instructions to survivors and caretakers. Below their names and titles, it reads, in part,\n\n\"They say: Concerning those brothers and mortuary priests (\"Hm-kA\") who will act for us in the necropolis, we will not allow our children, our two wives, or any man to (have mandates over) them...Further, if any mortuary priest gives his things (assets entrusted to him) in payment to any personnel, from him will be withdrawn all that was given him as a mortuary priest of his workgroup...We have created what we have made for you so that these voice offerings are effective for the akhs (transformed souls) of the offerings-receivers who are the inhabitants of the necropolis.\"\n\nThere follow two registers of offering-bearers (image at right; the preceding legal text is cropped out), and then larger figures, the principals honoring the deceased, led by the \"sHD wjA\" \"inspector of the shrine boat,\" Khabau-Khufu (named in recognition of the 4th Dynasty king who made the largest Giza pyramid). Familial relationships stay unclear in Egyptian tombs: Only the pictures of wives (\"Hmt.f\" \"his wife\"), daughters (\"zAt.f\"), and sons (\"zA.f\") bore genealogical notations; even the ego need not be obvious when not drawn at full scale because so many people shared identical names, a situation we face with \"John Smith\" in a phone book. Reeder identifies Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep themselves at the rear of Khabau-Khufu's line; he and the woman behind him are Niankhkhnum's parents. This woman and Khnumhotep are the only paraders who do not place their left hands upon their hearts, but use them to hold the hand or arm of the person in front of them, suggesting a degree of intimacy between them and the persons they grasp (Khabau-Khufu or Niankhkhnum, respectively). More of the deceased's children plus some of foggier status appear, including Ankhredwi-nesut, police captain Khnumhezuf, palace manicurist Kasetef, and Hemre's wife Tjeset. Sekhem, a scribe of the \"pr HD\" \"white house,\" is both here and behind Niankhkhnum in the forecourt marsh scene, where he had a namesake on Khnumhotep's side, albeit with additional post of inspector of \"Hm-kA\" priests marked. Court decorum would prescribe the guest list and the order they marched in, knowledge lost to modern scholars.\n\nIn Reeder's interpretation, absence of Khnumhotep's parents here matching absence of his wife at the banquet, is consistent with Khnumhotep predeceasing his afterlife roommate; for the relief was drafted in advance, before both men were dead. Other officials in line and in the next register (where figures are smaller) include supervisors of weavers, manicurists, \"Hm-kA\" priests, and scribes. In fact, on Egyptian monuments it's hard to tell who's still alive: Hemre, a probable son of Niankhkhnum, appears elsewhere seated with his wife and receiving a goose from his own son, a scene which emulates the offerings tendered the tomb owners. The dynamics force us to appreciate the sincerity of their afterlife beliefs. Uncertain precise relationship connects Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep as well; Altenmüller considers them brothers, Baines that they were twins, and Reeder that they were same-sex conjugal or domestic partners evidenced by iconography normally used for husband and wife, or, with Khnumhotep, for women (sniffing the lotus blossom). Baines points out that embraces derive from religious and royal precedent, as we saw when a lion goddess suckled Nyuserre (Career section), and a theme Hatshepsut would later develop to high art as offspring of Amun. It is safe to conclude sufficient trust to embark on a yearslong joint tomb project showing them in close contact; the king also permitting them at court in an era where assassination posed real threat.\n\nIn the bottom register, two new canopy ships (not the shrine boats in the forecourt discussed above) are rowed on a final \"journey to the Beautiful Places in the Midst of the Honored Ones, the journey to the Field of Offerings\" (\"sqdwt r swt nfrwt m-m jmAxw, sqdwt r sxt Htp\"), the leading craft decorated with a hedgehog's-head prow and known as the \"Hnt.\" The pilots give each crew instructions on where to land, the one in the rear boat cautioning his oarsmen not to hit the hedgehog boat. This setting is a formula with variations also enumerated at Abusir and (minus hedgehog prow) in the Giza mastaba of Iymery, where the watercourse traveled is dubbed \"the Canal of the West.\" In the Egyptian schema, these funeral boats were skippered by the deceased themselves, as they stand in front of the cabin or sit at the stern. The cabin or shrine, roofed with decorative reed matting, shelters the deceased's afterlife corporum, what we think of as a soul even though its structure was more elaborate, more rooted in physicality, than the modern Christian soul conceptions usually are. For us, the watery trip to the West completes a visual connection between soul and the statue or mummy actually carried as cargo in the shrine boats. Since the hedgehog and its companion sport canopies of a different design, we're not sure what was on their manifiests, although the deceased manage to find themselves standing or seated in authority on the decks here, just as in the shrine boats. Barta informs us that in the dual tomb of Fetekty and Mety, a third craft laden with beer trailed the hedgehog, perhaps indicating travel to a funerary meal near the burial site.\n\nThe privilege found in Old Kingdom tombs no longer represents operation of an admirable political system. Elite presence imposed hardship on peasants working the fields and paying rents; within the literate class itself, subordinates' resentment of superiors' petty gestures strikes a familiar chord today. Roles were gendered. Physical violence and corporal punishment were common and accepted as normal. Escape hatches leading to mobility taken for granted today opened rarely then. However, the ability to express emotion in writing, particularly of affection or loss, underwent refinement among an elite which after all had come to power over Egypt as warriors employing brutal force. (See the decapitated prisoners on the Narmer palette.) Despite acute limitations of administration and political will, by the 5th Dynasty Egypt had already become capable as a provider state for those outside the highest official circles. Organized recognition of feelings and interests in a broader range of people, as when Niankhkhnum and Khnumhotep make concessions to mortuary priests and ask for official integrity in their legal text, began to set a stage for codification of legal procedure (which Egypt achieved in the Ptolemaic period) and extension of rights to individuals and groups within a society.\n\n"}
{"id": "2158718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2158718", "title": "Laurie Dann", "text": "Laurie Dann\n\nLaurie Dann (née Wasserman; October 18, 1957 – May 20, 1988) was an American murderer who shot and killed one boy, Nick Corwin, and wounded two girls and three boys in a Winnetka, Illinois elementary school. She then took a family hostage and shot another man, non-fatally, before killing herself.\n\nDann was born in Chicago and grew up in Glencoe, a north suburb of Chicago. She was the daughter of an accountant, Norman Wasserman, and his wife, Edith Joy.\n\nThose who knew Dann described her as shy and withdrawn. She graduated from New Trier High School in Winnetka, Illinois, in 1975. Her grades were poor in high school, but she was able to attend Drake University in Des Moines, Iowa. When her grades improved, she transferred to the University of Arizona with the goal of becoming a teacher. She began dating a pre-med student, and the relationship soon became serious, but she was becoming possessive and demanding. In the summer of 1977 she attended the University of Wisconsin in Madison, taking a course in home economics.\n\nIn 1980, with the relationship failing, Dann moved back to her parents' home. She then transferred to Northwestern University to complete her degree, but she dropped out of all her classes and never graduated.\n\nShe met and married Russell Dann, an executive in an insurance broker firm in September 1982, but the marriage quickly soured as Russell's family noted signs of obsessive-compulsive disorder and other strange behavior, including leaving trash around the house. She saw a psychiatrist for a short period, who identified her childhood and upbringing as a cause of her problems.\n\nLaurie and Russell Dann separated in October 1985. The divorce negotiations were acrimonious, with Laurie claiming that Russell was abusive. In the following months, the police were called to investigate various incidents, including several harassing phone calls made to Russell and his family. In April 1986, Laurie Dann accused Russell of breaking into and vandalizing her parents' house, where she was then living. Shortly after, she purchased a Smith & Wesson .357 Magnum, telling the salesman that she needed it for self-defense. The police were concerned about her gun ownership and unsuccessfully tried to persuade Dann and her family that she should give up the gun.\n\nIn August 1986, she contacted her ex-boyfriend, who was by then a resident at a hospital, and claimed to have had his child. When he refused to believe her, Dann called the hospital where he worked and claimed he had raped her in the emergency room.\n\nIn September 1986, Russell Dann reported he had been stabbed in his sleep with an icepick. He accused Laurie of the crime, although he had not actually seen his attacker. The police decided not to press charges against Laurie based on a medical report which suggested that the injury might have been self-inflicted, Russell's abrasive attitude towards the police, and his failed polygraph test. Russell and his family continued to receive harassing hang-up phone calls, and Laurie was arrested for calls made to Russell's sister. The charges were dropped due to lack of evidence.\n\nJust before their divorce was finalized in April 1987, Laurie accused Russell of raping her. There were no physical signs supporting Laurie's claim, although she passed two polygraph tests. In May 1987, Laurie accused Russell of placing an incendiary device in her home. No charges were filed against Russell for either alleged event. Laurie's parents believed her claims and supported and defended her throughout. By this time, Laurie Dann was being treated by another psychiatrist for obsessive-compulsive disorder and a \"chemical imbalance\"; the psychiatrist told police that he did not think Laurie was suicidal or homicidal.\n\nDann worked as a babysitter, and some employers were happy with the care she provided their children. Others made complaints to the police about damage to their furniture and the theft of food and clothes. Despite the complaints, no charges were pressed. Dann's father did pay for damages in one case.\n\nIn the summer of 1987, Dann sublet a university apartment in Evanston, Illinois. Once again, her strange behavior was noted, including riding up and down in elevators for hours, wearing rubber gloves to touch metal, and leaving meat to rot in sofa cushions. She took no classes at the university.\n\nIn the fall of 1987, Dann claimed she had received threatening letters from Russell and that he had sexually assaulted her in a parking lot, but the police did not believe her. A few weeks later, she purchased a .32-caliber Smith & Wesson revolver.\n\nWith her condition deteriorating, Dann and her family sought specialized help. In November 1987, she moved to Madison, Wisconsin, to live in a student residence while being observed by a psychiatrist who specialized in obsessive-compulsive disorder. She had already begun taking clomipramine, a drug for OCD, and her new psychiatrist increased the dosage, adding lithium carbonate to reduce her mood swings and initiating behavioral therapy to work on her phobias and ritualistic behaviors. Despite the intervention, her strange behavior continued, including riding elevators for long periods, changing television channels repetitively, and an obsession with \"good\" and \"bad\" numbers. There were also concerns about whether she was bulimic.\n\nDann purchased a .22 semi-automatic Beretta at the end of December 1987. In March 1988, she stopped attending her appointments with the psychiatrist and behavior therapist. At about the same time, she began to make preparations for the attacks. She stole books from the library on poisons, and she diluted arsenic and other chemicals from a lab. She also shoplifted clothes and wigs to disguise herself and was arrested for theft on one occasion. Both her psychiatrist and her father tried to persuade her to enter the hospital as an inpatient, but she refused.\n\nDann continued to make numerous hang-up phone calls to her former in-laws and babysitting clients. Eventually, the calls escalated to death threats. An ex-boyfriend and his wife also received dozens of threatening calls. In May 1988, a letter, later confirmed to have been sent by Laurie Dann, was sent to the hospital administration where her ex-boyfriend then worked, again accusing him of sexual assault. Since the phone calls were across state lines, the FBI became involved, and a federal indictment against Dann was prepared. However, the ex-boyfriend, fearful of publicity, and concerned about Dann getting bail and then attempting to fulfill her threats against him, decided to wait until other charges were filed in Illinois. In May 1988, a janitor found her lying in the fetal position inside a garbage bag in a trash room. This precipitated a search of her room and her departure back to Glencoe.\n\nDuring the days before May 20, 1988, Laurie Dann prepared rice cereal snacks and juice boxes poisoned with the diluted arsenic she had stolen in Madison. She mailed them to a former acquaintance, ex-babysitting clients, her psychiatrist, Russell Dann, and others. In the early morning of May 20, she personally delivered snacks and juice \"samples\" to acquaintances, and families for whom she had babysat, some of whom had not seen her for years. Other snacks were delivered to Alpha Tau Omega, Psi Upsilon, and Kappa Sigma fraternity houses and Leverone Hall at Northwestern University in Evanston. Notes were attached to some of the deliveries. The drinks were often leaking and the squares unpleasant-tasting, so few were actually consumed. In addition, the arsenic was highly diluted so nobody became seriously ill.\n\nAt about 9:00 a.m. on the 20th, Dann arrived at the home of the Rushe family, former babysitting clients in Winnetka, Illinois, to pick up their two youngest children. The family had just told Dann they were moving away. Instead of taking the children on the promised outing, she took them to Ravinia Elementary School in Highland Park, Illinois, where she erroneously believed that both of her former sister-in-law's two sons were enrolled (in fact, one of Dann's intended targets was not even a student at the school). She left the two children in the car while she entered the school and tried to detonate a fire bomb in one of the school's hallways. After Dann's departure, the small fire she set was subsequently discovered by students, and quickly extinguished by a teacher. She drove to a local daycare attended by her ex-sister-in-law's daughter and tried to enter the building with a plastic can of gasoline, but was stopped by staff.\n\nNext Dann drove the children back to their home and offered them some arsenic-poisoned milk, but the boys spat it out because it tasted strange to them. Once at their home, she lured them downstairs and used gasoline to set fire to the house, trapping their mother and the two children in the basement (they managed to escape). She drove three and a half blocks to the Hubbard Woods Elementary School with three handguns in her possession. She wandered into a second grade classroom for a short while, then left. Finding a boy in the corridor, Dann pushed him into the boys' washroom and shot him with a .22 semi-automatic Beretta pistol. Her Smith & Wesson .357 Magnum revolver jammed when she tried to fire it at two other boys, and she threw it into the trash along with the spare ammunition. The boys ran out of the washroom and raised the alarm. Dann then reentered the second grade classroom where students were working in groups on a bicycle safety test. She ordered all the children into the corner of the room. The teacher refused and attempted to disarm Dann, managing to unload the Beretta in the struggle. Dann drew a .32 Smith & Wesson from the waistband of her shorts and aimed it at several groups of the students. She shot five children, killing eight-year-old Nicholas Corwin and wounding two girls and two boys before fleeing in her car.\n\nDann was prevented from leaving the area by car because the roads were closed for a funeral cortege. She decided to drive her car backwards down the nearby street, but the road dead-ended into a private drive. Abandoning her car, she removed her bloodstained shorts and tied a blue garbage bag around her waist. With her two remaining guns she made her way through the woods and came upon the house of the Andrew family. Dann entered the house and met a mother and her twenty-year-old son, who were in the kitchen. She claimed she was raped and had shot the rapist in the struggle.\nThe Andrews were sympathetic and tried to convince her that she need not fear the police because she had acted in self-defense. Mrs. Andrew gave Dann a pair of her daughter's pants to wear. While she was putting them on, Philip Andrew was able to pick up and pocket the Beretta. He suggested that she call her family. Dann agreed and called her mother, telling her she had done something terrible and that the police were involved. Philip took the phone and explained Dann's story about the rape and shooting, suggesting that Mrs. Wasserman come to get Dann; Mrs. Wasserman said she could not come because she did not have a car.\n\nMr. Andrew arrived home, and they continued to argue with Dann, insisting she give up the second gun. Dann called her mother again and this time Mr. Andrew spoke with Mrs. Wasserman, asking her to persuade Dann to give up the gun. While Dann spoke with her mother, Mrs. Andrew left the house and alerted the police. Mr. Andrew told Dann that he would not remain in the house if she did not put down the gun, and also left the house. Dann ordered Philip to stay. Just before noon, seeing the police advancing on the house she shot Philip in the chest, but he managed to escape out the back door before collapsing and being rescued by the police and ambulance personnel.\n\nWith the house surrounded, Dann went upstairs to a bedroom. The Wassermans and Russell Dann were brought to the house. At about 7:00 p.m., an assault team entered the house while Mr. Wasserman attempted to get Dann's attention with a bullhorn. The police found her body in the bedroom; she had shot herself in the mouth.\n\nAll but one of the victims wounded by Dann recovered from their injuries, including the schoolgirl who was shot and suffered severe internal injuries. The victims, school children, and parents received extensive support to help them cope with the psychological after-effects of the attacks.\n\nParents and members of the community subsequently devoted many years to gun control policy. Philip Andrew gave interviews about gun control from his hospital bed, and later became active in local and state gun control organizations as the executive director of the Illinois Council Against Handgun Violence; he subsequently became a lawyer and then an FBI agent.\n\nThe Dann shootings also fueled the debate about criteria for committing mentally ill people to mental health facilities against their will. Some favored the involuntary commitment of a person who is determined to be mentally ill and incapable of making informed decisions about treatment; civil libertarians like Benjamin Wolf (staff counsel for the ACLU of Illinois) opposed the idea saying, \"It would be a shame if we cut back on the civil liberties of literally millions of mentally ill people because of the occasional bizarre incident.\"\n\nA book called \"Murder of Innocence\" was written by Eric Zorn about the tragedy, and a made-for-television film of the same name was based on it. In the film, Dann's name is changed to Laurie Wade. She was played by Valerie Bertinelli.\n\nSome blamed Dann's family for defending and protecting her in spite of the signs of her deteriorating mental health. Investigations were hampered by the Wassermans' refusal to be interviewed by police or to provide access to Dann's psychiatric records—the records were eventually obtained by court order. On the night of Dann's death, the Wassermans allowed only a very brief search of her bedroom, after which they cleaned it and removed potential evidence. The police were criticized for not sealing off Dann's room as part of the crime scene. Parents of the shooting victims subsequently sued the Wasserman family for damages.\n\nFurther criticism was directed at Dann's psychiatrists for failing to identify or take action regarding the signs of Dann's decreasing mental stability. At the time of her suicide, Dann was taking an unlicensed drug clomipramine. The effects of this drug were initially considered as contributing factors to Dann's mental well-being, but ultimately ruled out.\n\nTwo newspaper clippings were found among Dann's possessions after her death. One described a man who randomly killed two people in a public building. The other described a depressed young man who had attempted to commit suicide in the same way that Dann did; he survived and discovered that his brain injury had cured him of his obsessive-compulsive disorder.\n\nOne theory of Dann's rationale was that she targeted people who had \"disappointed\" her in some way: her ex-husband, her former sister-in-law (through the firebombing attempts at her children's schools and daycare), her ex-boyfriend and his wife, the family who was moving away, as well as former friends and babysitting clients.\n\nDann was also briefly investigated as a possible suspect in the Chicago Tylenol murders, but no direct connection was found.\n\nIn his book \"The Myth of Male Power\", author Warren Farrell suggested that Laurie Dann's actions were an example of women's violence against men. He claimed, erroneously, that all of Dann's victims were male, that she burned down a Young Men's Jewish Council, burned two boys in a basement, shot her own son, and alleged that she killed an eight-year old rapist. Men's rights activists, academics, and the media have repeated Farrell's errors and conclusion. Farrell later issued a correction on his web site.\n"}
{"id": "9998961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9998961", "title": "Leo of Cappadocia", "text": "Leo of Cappadocia\n\nSaint Leo of Cappadocia was a Christian saint.\n\nLeo was an ascetic from Cappadocia whose life and martyrdom is described in John Moschos' \"Pratum Spirituale\" (\"The Spiritual Meadow\"). Leo was distinguished by his warm hospitality to all his visitors, whom he considered to be sent by God. He had the habit of saying with an enigmatic smile: \"Now I am on my way to become an Emperor\". (The word \"Basileos\" -\"king\" in Byzantium meant also \"Emperor\".) He was frequently derided, and even considered to be out of his wits, for this saying, since there had never been an emperor from Cappadocia.\n\nOnce pagan soldiers attacked the surroundings of the town near which Leo lived. With all the inhabitants he took refuge within the walls of the town. Only few old men were caught by the intruders. Leo left the fortress and went to the enemy camp offering himself to the pagans in the place of the old men, who because of their weakness would be of no use to them, whereas Leo had sufficient strength to be of profit. The pagans agreed, released the elders and took Leo instead. However, when Leo was loaded with sacks and asked to follow the soldiers, it turned out that Leo himself was not apt for such physical labors (even though he tried to keep his word and serve them) being weakened by his constant prayers and vigils. The pagans, believing that Leo had tricked them in order to rescue his older compatriots, were enraged and beheaded him.\n\nOnly then did the people realize that when Leo had spoken about becoming an emperor, he meant not earthly, but heavenly empire, for he fulfilled the commandment of the Savior: \"There is no greater love than that when one lays down his soul for brethren\", and therefore received the crown of heavenly kingdom from Him.\n\nJohn Moschos, \"The Spiritual Meadow\". Translated John Wortley. Studio Cistercian Publications, 1992. \n"}
{"id": "4836827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4836827", "title": "List of Transylvanian Saxons", "text": "List of Transylvanian Saxons\n\nThis is a list of famous Transylvanian Saxons.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDr. Misch Orend, author, \"Kruge und Teller\", and other works about Transylvania \n"}
{"id": "19189856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19189856", "title": "List of performers at the Metropolitan Opera", "text": "List of performers at the Metropolitan Opera\n\nThis is a list of the singers, conductors, and dancers who have appeared in at least 235 performances at the Metropolitan Opera, last updated January 4, 2016. Performers are listed by the number of the performances they have appeared in as found at the Metropolitan Opera Archives. The number of performances and last performance date listed may not be current as numbers change with new productions.\n\n"}
{"id": "16941237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16941237", "title": "Léon Mignon", "text": "Léon Mignon\n\nLéon Mignon (Liège, 9 April 1847 – Schaerbeek, 30 September 1898) was a Belgian sculptor working in a realist idiom, known for his depiction of bulls.\n\nBorn at Liège, Léon Mignon completed his studies at the Académie royale des Beaux-Arts de Liège in 1871. He made his first showing at the Salon of Ghent, and obtained a fellowship from the Fondation Darchis for further study in Italy.\n\nHe set up his studio in Paris in 1876 in collaboration with Paul de Vigne, then settled permanently at Schaerbeek. He won a gold medal at the Paris Salon for his sculpture \"Li Tore\", the Bull-Tamer (\"illustration\") which provoked polemics from critics for its combination of nudity with forthright realism.\n\n\"Li Tore\", set up at Liège, became the mascot of the students, who hid it in the cellars of the Académie to protect it during World War II. The bull has become an emblem for all Liège, with the city motto \"Liège, forcer l’avenir!\", \"Liège, make the future happen!\"\n\nA bronze on a similar theme, his \"Le Dompteur de Taureaux\" (1881), which had been noticed at the retrospective exhibition of Belgian sculpture the previous year (in its plaster model), and was championed by Gustave Rolin-Jaequemyns, Minister of the Interior, stands on the Terrasses d'Avroy, Liège. Though a scarf had been added to the model to disguise the figure's nudity, the sculpture scandalised the editors of the Catholic daily, \"La Gazette de Liège.\"\n\nOne among his \"animalier\" sculptures is to be seen at the Botanical Garden of Brussels: \"The Olive Tree, or Peace\", representing an agricultural worker with his ox. His early \"Combat de taureaux dans la campagne romaine\" is conserved in the Musée Royal des Beaux-Arts, Brussels.\n\nOther sculptures include \"Hide-and-Seek\" and \"Lady Godiva\".\n\nBoth Schaerbeek and Liège possess a rue Léon Mignon.\n"}
{"id": "2631691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2631691", "title": "Mariella Mehr", "text": "Mariella Mehr\n\nMariella Mehr (born 27 December 1947 in Zürich) is a Swiss writer.\n\nMariella Mehr was born a member of the nomadic Yeniche people. She was a victim of the \"Hilfswerk für die Kinder der Landstrasse\" (loosely translated, \"Relief Organisation for Rural Street Children\"), which separated Yeniche children from their parents. Mehr was moved between 16 orphanages and three reformatories as a child. She was committed to a mental institution four times and spent nineteen months in a women's prison.\n\nMehr published her first work in 1975, and her first novel, \"Steinzeit\", in 1981. She champions the causes of outsiders and oppressed minorities. Her work was recognized in 1998 with an honorary doctorate from the University of Basel.\n\nIn 2000, she resigned from the authors' club \"Gruppe Olten\", because the group struck from its mission statement the goal of realising a \"democratic socialist society\".\n\nMariella Mehr currently lives in Tuscany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42575640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42575640", "title": "Mathias Katamba", "text": "Mathias Katamba\n\nMathias Katamba is a Ugandan economist, business executive, banker and entrepreneur. He is the designated Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of DFCU Bank, the second-largest commercial bank in Uganda, effective January 2019.\n\nBefore that, he was the managing director and CEO of Housing Finance Bank, a commercial bank, co-owned by the Ugandan government and the National Social Security Fund (Uganda), a semi-autonomous retirement pension organisation for non-government employees in Uganda.\n\nHe was born in Central Uganda.\n\nKatamba had his early education in Uganda. He then entered the University of Greenwich, in England, graduating with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in Economics. His degree of Master of Science in Financial Management was obtained from the University of East London, also in the UK. He also holds the postgraduate Diploma in Public Relations, awarded by the Chartered Institute of Public Relations (CIPR), another UK institution. Over the years, he has attended advanced leadership courses from several institutions, including Harvard Kennedy School and Wharton Business School.\n\nEven while still in school, Katamba exhibited entrepreneurial skill, by starting a business during the break between middle and high school.\n\nFor the past 10 to 15 years, he has been intimately associated with Uganda's banking industry. He is credited with:\n\n\nIn 2011, following 5 years at the helm of Uganda Finance Trust Limited, he took a beak from commercial banking until he was appointed to is present position in April 2014. Prior to his present position, he was Managing Partner and co-founder of \"Progression Capital Africa (PCA)\", a US$40 million private equity fund based in Mauritius. Before joining Finance Trust Bank, he worked at some national and regional, notable financial institutions; including Orient Bank, Postbank and Barclays Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4772191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4772191", "title": "Me Me Lai", "text": "Me Me Lai\n\nMe Me Lai (born 3 November 1951), sometimes billed as Me Me Lay, is a Burmese-British actress and television host who worked mainly in British and Italian films, most notably in the horror genre.\n\nShe was born on the night of 3 November 1951 in Burma to a Burmese mother and an English father. She moved to England in her teens, where she soon started her acting career, at first in television series like \"Paul Temple\" and \"Jason King\". Soon, she made the transition to acting in movies, starting with the 1971 Mike Raven horror movie \"Crucible of Terror\", soon followed by the 1972 sex comedy \"Au Pair Girls\" directed by Val Guest.\n\nLai came into her own during the era of Italian cannibal films, playing lead roles in two genre-defining movies: \"Man from Deep River\" (1972) by Umberto Lenzi, and \"Last Cannibal World\" (1977) by Ruggero Deodato. Lai appears nude throughout most of the film, which includes an explicit shot of her vulva. Additionally, she also had a part in \"Eaten Alive!\" (1980), again by Umberto Lenzi, in which one of her scenes from \"Last Cannibal World\" was re-used. Outside the cannibal genre, she had a brief role as a Chinese brothel girl in Blake Edwards's 1978 comedy \"Revenge of the Pink Panther\".\n\nMe Me Lai also was co-hostess of British game shows \"The Golden Shot\" and \"Sale of the Century\", and appeared on the 1970s Yorkshire Television programme \"Origami\", with Robert Harbin.\n\nHer last movie was Lars von Trier's \"The Element of Crime\" in 1984.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56786953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56786953", "title": "Meryl McMaster", "text": "Meryl McMaster\n\nMeryl McMaster is a Canadian photographer whose best-known work explores her Indigenous heritage.\nHer first major series \"Ancestral\" from 2008 \"\"\"appropriates ethnographic portraits, which she then projects onto her photographic subjects: herself and her father,\" noted artist and curator Gerald McMaster.\n\nMcMaster trained at the Ontario College of Art and Design University where she won the OCADU Medal. Other professional recognition includes the REVEAL Indigenous Art Award, the Charles Pachter Prize for Emerging Artists, the Canon Canada Prize, the Eiteljorg Contemporary Art Fellowship, and the Doris McCarthy Scholarship. McMaster was long-listed for the 2016 Sobey Art award. In March 2018, she was named one of three inaugural winners of the New Generation Photography Award, which supports the careers of young artists working in lens-based media.\n\nMcMaster's work was the subject of a solo survey exhibition \"Confluence\" organized by Carleton University Art Gallery (CUAG) and curated by Heather Anderson. The exhibition was on view at CUAG from May 2 - August 28, 2016 and travelled to five other venues including the Richmond Art Gallery (RAG), the Thunder Bay Art Gallery, Lethbridge University Art Gallery, and The Rooms. Her work was prominently featured in \"Every. Now. Then: Reframing Nationhood\" at the Art Gallery of Ontario during the summer of 2017. Her work has been acquired by various public collections within Canada and the United States, including the Canadian Museum of History, the Art Gallery of Ontario, the Canada Council Art Bank, the Eiteljorg Museum, the National Museum of the American Indian, the Ottawa Art Gallery, the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada.\n\n\n\nMcMaster's work is in the collections of the Art Gallery of Ontario,the Canadian Museum of History, the Canada Council Art Bank, the Eiteljorg Museum, the National Museum of the American Indian, the Ottawa Art Gallery, the Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art and Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "48136499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48136499", "title": "Michael Howard (Luciferian)", "text": "Michael Howard (Luciferian)\n\nMichael Howard (1948–2015) was an English practitioner of Luciferian Witchcraft and a prolific author on esoteric topics. From 1976 until his death he was the editor of \"The Cauldron\" magazine.\n\nBorn in London, Howard developed an interest in supernatural subjects through fiction literature, later exploring Tibetan Buddhism after a near death experience. He proceeded to study at an agricultural college in Somerset, learning about the local folklore from an elderly farm worker, in particular folk beliefs about magic and witchcraft. He advanced his knowledge of esoteric subjects through reading books by prominent occult authors like Aleister Crowley and Helena Blavatsky, and in 1964 joined the fledgling Witchcraft Research Association, becoming particularly interested in the articles in its newsletter that were authored by the witch Robert Cochrane. Returning to the London area, in 1967 he developed a friendship with the Luciferian ceremonial magician Madeline Montalban, joining her Order of the Morning Star. In 1969 he was initiated into Gardnerian Wicca, joining a coven of its practitioners, and in the early 1970s became a member of Christine Hartley's Co-Masonic lodge in West London.\n\nIn 1975, Howard published his first book, \"Candle Magic\", which was followed the next year by the beginning of \"The Cauldron\". From 1977, the magazine became the vehicle for Bill Liddell's controversial articles about the nineteenth century cunning man George Pickingill, and it would also serve as a platform for articles by a wide range of esotericists. In 1999, Howard was contacted by Andrew Chumbley, and in 1999 he joined Chumbley's \"Traditional Witchcraft\" order, the Cultus Sabbati.\n\nThe Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White described Howard as a \"prominent figure in the British Craft movement\", while Hutton characterised him as \"the most open-minded of Pagan editors\".\n\nHoward was born in London in 1948. In his early teenage years, he developed an interest in Western esotericism, occultism, and the paranormal, primarily through the fictional stories of writers like Dennis Wheatley, M. R. James, Algernon Blackwood, C. S. Lewis, H. Rider Haggard, Edgar Rice Burroughs, Sax Rohmer, Arthur Machen, Robert E. Howard, and H. P. Lovecraft. Aged fourteen, he underwent an emergency operation and an associated near death experience, subsequently embarking on a study of spirituality, in particular through books on Tibetan Buddhism by authors like Lobsang Rampa. He was intrigued by the prospect of magical practices continuing in Britain after reading a March 1963 article in the \"Daily Sketch\" detailing a \"Black Magic Rite\" alleged to have taken place near to the village of Clophill in Bedfordshire. Shortly after, he watched a television interview with the prominent Wiccan Gerald Gardner, whose arguments against a hostile Christian clergyman impressed Howard.\n\nHe went on to study at an agricultural college in Somerset, as part of which he was assigned to a work placement on a smallholding between Wincanton and Castle Cary which was run by two elderly spinster sisters. An elderly man who sometimes worked on the farm recounted to Howard various aspects of local folklore, including a belief in witchcraft. The old man informed him that the spinsters nailed rowan twigs above the doors to their barn and cowshed on May Eve and Halloween in order to ward off fairies and \"black witches\", also telling him that there were solitary female \"witches\" living on the border between Devon and Somerset who used magic to either curse or cure ailments.\n\nFollowing his graduation, Howard gained employment on a farm in Gloucestershire, and on his day off each week he travelled to Gloucester or Cheltenham. In the latter was a second-hand bookstore where he purchased a number of books on esoteric subjects, including John Symonds' biography of the occultist Aleister Crowley, \"The Great Beast\", Crowley's own \"Magick in Theory and Practice\", Robert Graves' \"The White Goddess\", Dion Fortune's \"The Sea Priestess\" and \"Moon Magic\", Margaret Murray's \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", Montague Summers' \"Witchcraft and Black Magic\", James Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\", and Helena Blavatsky's \"The Secret Doctrine\" and \"Isis Unveiled\". It was also while working for this farm that he met a local cunning man, who also worked as a hedge layer and fence-repairer. This man taught Howard more about folk magic, and hinted that there were groups of folk magicians active in the Cotswolds who were involved in a tradition that was separate from Gardner's Wicca. After a short time in Gloucestershire, Howard moved to Middlesex to be closer to his mother, who was terminally ill. Here he was employed as a gardener at Stanmore, although he later left this position in order to become an office worker. In coming years he would work in various managerial and executive positions for EMI, Sotheby's, and Her Majesty's Customs and Excise.\n\nIn 1964 he joined the short-lived Witchcraft Research Association, and through reading its newsletter, \"Pentagram\", he discovered the writings of the Witch Robert Cochrane. Although Howard claimed that he was \"never totally convinced\" of Cochrane's claim to have come from a hereditary tradition of witches stretching back generations, he added that Cochrane's writings \"had a lasting influence on my progress through the Craft\". Searching for an occult organisation in which to involve himself, he visited the headquarters of the Society of the Inner Light in Hampstead, although being nineteen at the time he was deemed too young to join.\n\nIn 1967, Howard wrote to the Luciferian ceremonial magician and astrologer Madeline Montalban after reading one of her articles in \"Prediction\" magazine; she invited him to visit her at her home. The two became friends, with Montalban believing that she could see the \"Mark of Cain\" in his aura. She invited him to become a student of the ONS, which he duly did. Although his parents disapproved of his interest in magic, over the coming year he spent much of his time with her, and in 1968 they went on what she called a \"magical mystery tour\" to the West Country, visiting Stonehenge, Boscastle and Tintagel.\n\nIn 1969, he was initiated into Gardnerian Wicca, something Montalban disapproved of, and their friendship subsequently \"hit a stormy period\" with the pair going \"[their] own ways for several years.\" Howard's Gardnerian initiator had also been involved in The Regency, a group founded by members of Cochrane's Clan of Tubal Cain after Cochrane's death in 1966. The Wiccan group that Howard was part of merged the Gardnerian structure with additional elements borrowed from ceremonial magic, the Regency, and Cochrane's practices. This coven corresponded with an American, Jessie Bell, and initiated her into the tradition by proxy, sending her a copy of their own variant of the Gardnerian Book of Shadows. Claiming that the Goddess had commanded her to do so, she published the work as \"Lady Sheba's Book of Shadows\", much to the coven's disapproval.\n\nDuring the 1970s he befriended Christine Hartley, a longstanding member of the Society of the Inner Light, and he accompanied her to Mass performed by the Liberal Catholic Church. At her invitation, he joined her Co-Masonic lodge in West London, which had an Ancient Egypt theme. He also enquired about joining the West London-based Ancient Order of the Pyramid and the Sphinx, a ceremonial magic group which was run by Tamara Bourkon, but declined membership when it was revealed that he would have to adopt vegetarianism, celibacy, and teetotalism.\n\nAt Montalban's recommendation, Howard began writing on esoteric subjects, with his first publication being an article on elementals which appeared in \"Prediction\" in 1971. He continued to write articles and book reviews for the magazine for thiry years, until his friend, Jo Logan, retired as its editor. In 1975 his first book, \"Candle Burning: Its Occult Significance\", was published by Thorsons. The publisher had initially proposed a book on this subject to W. G. \"Ernest\" Butler, a friend of Hartley's, but he did not feel capable of the task, instead suggesting Howard's name to them.\n\nIn 1974, he and a female friend had established an esoteric magazine titled \"Speculum\". It ran for ten issues before folding after his co-editor found the project too difficult due to pre-existing work commitments. In 1976 Howard then established \"The Cauldron\", a magazine catering for modern Pagan Witches, after the idea was suggested to him in a conversation with the Gardnerian Madge Worthington. After \"The Wiccan\", it was only the second British outlet to do so, and gave space to practitioners of traditions other than the Gardnerian Wicca which dominated \"The Wiccan\". 100 copies of the first issue were produced on a second-hand roneo duplicator which Howard had purchased from the redundancy payment given to him by EMI. 25 copies were placed in the Atlantis Bookshop while the rest were sent to \"Speculum\" subscribers to complete their outstanding subscriptions. Over the coming forty years, \"The Cauldron\" published articles by a range of individuals associated with the study or practice of magic, including Ronald Hutton, Caroline Tully, Philip Heselton, Geraldine Beskin, Sorita d'Este, Rae Beth, Gareth Knight, Evan John Jones, and Nigel Pennick.\n\nIn 1977 Howard was contacted by E. W. Liddell, who was then publishing controversial articles on the Essex cunning man George Pickingill in \"The Wiccan\". Liddell ceased writing for \"The Wiccan\" and began producing articles for \"The Cauldron\" instead. Howard also published a number of articles on the subject of Luciferianism within \"The Cauldron\", using the pseudonym of 'Frater Ashtan'. Many of these were published in a collected form as \"The Pillars of Tubal Cain\", brought out by Capall Bann in 2000.\n\nIn 1992, Howard was contacted by Andrew Chumbley, who sent him a copy of his work, \"Azoetia: A Grimoire of the Sabbatic Craft\", to review for \"The Cauldron\". This resulted in a correspondence that lasted for several years before Howard met with Chumbley and his wife. Chumbley invited Howard to join his occult order, the Cultus Sabbati, with Howard doing so in 1999. Howard moved to Wales, where he lived for two decades. A Jacobite, he was a member of the Royal Stuart Society. In 2015, he died of complications surrounding renal failure while in Devon, surrounded by friends and family. The news was publicay announced by Xoanon and on \"The Cauldron\" website, while it was also announced that the magazine itself would be discontinued.\n\nThe religious studies scholar Fredrik Gregorius believed that Howard's work \"blurred\" the boundary between Luciferianism and Wicca. Many of these books had been published by Capall Bann, a small esoteric publishing company primarily associated with Pagan topics.\n"}
{"id": "53248246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53248246", "title": "Mohamed Seghir Boushaki", "text": "Mohamed Seghir Boushaki\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki (), (born in Thénia, Boumerdès Province, Kabylie, Algeria; died 1959 in Thenia, Algeria) was an Algerian Berber politician after the French conquest of Algeria.\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki was born in 1869 in the village of \"Thala Oufella\" () called \"Soumâa\" (called ) because of the ruins of .\n\nThis ancient Berber citadel of Benian ntâa Soumâa was built by King Nubel when the region of Thenia was the capital of Kabylie and in North Africa during Antiquity.\n\nThe lands ranging from \"Oued Boumerdès\" and \"Oued Mghaldène\" in the west to \"\" to the east of the village \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\" belonged to the tribe of \"Aïth Aïcha\" to which Mohamed belonged Seghir Boushaki before the French conquest of Algeria.\n\nJust two years after the birth of Mohamecd Seghir, all of Kabylie rallied to the \"Mokrani Revolt\" on March 16, 1871 to expel the French colonial troops from the plain and the heights.\n\nAfter the defeat of the brotherhood of the Rahmaniya in this Kabyle uprising, the tribal leaders were deported to New Caledonia, among them \"Ahmed Ben Belkacem\" the chief of the \"Aïth Aïcha\" who was close to Mohamed Seghir.\n\n\"Ahmed Ben Belkacem\", born in 1837 and son of Ahmed, was deported under the \"Number 18744\".\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki grew up in a large family where his elder brother \"Ali Boushaki\" (1855 - 1965) was his model.\n\nTheir father \"Mohamed Boushaki\" (1834-1889), known as \"Moh Ouaâli\" (}, was one of the survivors of the French expedition against the town of Dellys from May 7 to May 17, 1844 and which had decimated dozens of villages of Kabylie, including \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\".\n\nThus, Mohamed Seghir's grandfather, \"Ali Boushaki\" (1823 - 1844) who was married to \"Khdaouedj Dekkiche\" of Souk El-Had, was one of the Kabyle martyrs during the fighting against the French Conquest of Kabylie, leaving his son \"Moh Ouaâli\" orphaned.\n\nThe massacre of Jacques Leroy de Saint Arnaud completed and the village of \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\" devastated, the widowed grandmother \"Khdaouedj Dekkiche\" could only preserve her child \"Moh Ouaâli\" taking him with her to her parents in the village of \"Igueraïchene\" at Souk El-Had until her puberty and the reconstruction of his native village in \"Aïth Aïcha\" tribe.\n\nAfter his return to \"Thala Oufella\" in 1852 at the age of 18, \"Mohamed Boushaki (Moh Ouaâli)\" married his cousin \"Aïcha Ishak-Boushaki\" who bore \"Ali Boushaki\" In 1855 and then of \"Mohamed Seghir Boushaki\" in 1869.\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki began his coranic studies in the reconstructed Zawiya in the village of \"Thala Oufella\" near the mausoleum of his great-grandfather \"\" (1394-1853) who was one of the berber scholars and theologians before the arrival of the Ottomans in Algeria.\n\nMeanwhile, the plain of Mountain pass of \"Aïth Aïcha\" tribe, north of \"Thala Oufella\" village, was colonized as early as 1871 by Alsatian and Lorraine farmers who came from France to found the town of Ménerville.\n\nThus, from 1874 to 1881, Mohamed Seghir grazed the herds of the village with his brother Ali and his cousins while continuing his Muslim teaching in his native village.\n\nAfter the creation of the in Kabylie and the establishment of the by the governor Louis Tirman, new patronyms were attributed to the families of \"Aïth Aïcha\" tribe, and identity papers were handed to the villagers, allowing Mohamed Seghir Boushaki to continue his studies at Tizi Ouzou in the \"Zawiya of Sheikh Mohand Ameziane\" where he became acquainted with many of the futur notables of the Great Kabylie.\n\nThe deep recitations and exegesis received by Mohamed Seghir in the Tizi Ouzou Zawiyas, as well as the measured attendance of French settlers, allowed him to anchor in the Berber-Arab culture on the one hand, and to open up on the accomplished fact of the European presence in Kabylie of another coast, thus endowing him with the major trilingual asset for the pursuit of his political and social journey.\n\nAfter ten years of Islamic studies in Great Kabylie, Mohamed Seghir Boushaki settled in his village \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\" in 1891 and began to work in agriculture and commerce.\n\nHe specializes in carob tree arboriculture by weaving a professional carob bean harvesting network for sale in the state and for processing into locust bean gum and carob bean molasses.\n\nHe soon gained notable profits which allowed him to rent a house in the French colony of \"Ménerville (Thénia)\" bordering \"Oued Arbia\" in which he married in 1898 at the age of 29 with \"Fatma Cherifi\" issue of a rich family residing in \"Sidi Daoud\" along \"\".\n\nMohamed Seghir assiduously transformed the mesh of collection of carob bean in Kabylie into a network of inter-village alliances by marriage in the former Algiers Department regrouping the current wilayas of Algiers, Boumerdes, Tizi Ouzou, Bouira, Blida and Tipaza.\n\nWhile remaining a fervent supporter of the Sufi Tariqa of the Rahmaniyya, he frequently frequented the two mosques of Sidi M'hamed Bou Qobrine in Bounouh (Boghni) and Hamma (Algiers), and as soon as he had his first boy in 1907, he named him \"M'Hamed Boushaki\" in memory of the kabyle theologian \"M'Hamed Ben Abderrahmane El Azhari\".\n\nHis intense commercial activity allowed him to attend the weekly markets throughout Kabylie where trading transactions and marriage agreements were negotiated.\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki lost his first wife \"Fatma Cherifi\" in 1914 shortly before the outbreak of the World War I when he had reached the age of 45, leaving him several orphaned children to his charge and responsibility.\n\nHe then quickly remarried with \"Khdaouedj Tafat Bouzid\" from the village \"Aïth Thafath\" in Chabet el Ameur, who took care of the orphans and then bore him several other new toddlers.\n\nThe colonial French, surrounded by the German troops and Stormtrooper, appealed to the young Algerians in the ranks of its army in the metropolis with the promise to give them in exchange more rights citizens in Algeria and why not the total independence.\n\nSeveral young kabyles of the Khachna and Great Kabylie were recruited on French front in Europe, among them close relatives of Mohamed Seghir.\n\nOne of these kabyle soldiers is the son of his brother \"Ali Boushaki\", his nephew \"Abderrahmane Boushaki\" who was a corporal in the \"\" from 1914 to 1918.\n\nThe distinctions and decorations after the return of the nephew \"Abderrahmane Boushaki\" mutilated from France gave him as well as his family and his tribe a growing notoriety in the French colonial administration in Algeria after 1918.\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki began his militant career in politics as part of the French colonial administration from 1918 onwards.\n\nMohamed Seghir's political strategy was not to move to Algiers to reside there because comfortable transport was available by the railway line connecting Tizi Ouzou to Algiers which had been completed in 1888 after that linking Bouira to Algiers had previously been inaugurated in 1886.\n\nAged 49 at the end of the World War I with nearly ten children in his charge and responsibility, Mohamed Seghir could not venture to live in the Algiers microcosm by taking the risk of forgetting himself and dissolving in the details of the colonial city life far from the expectations of the Kabylian villagers perched on the heights of their mountains and contemplating the European settlers who robbed them of their arable land and their pastures.\n\nThe new privileged status of his nephew \"Abderrahmane Boushaki\" as a veteran allowed the \"Arch of Aïth Aïcha\" to rebuild the \"Zawiya of \", destroyed in 1844 at the village of \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\", with a prayer room, a Coranic school, a basement with well, and a house for the Quran teacher.\nA French architect had designed the Zawiya of the village in a Berber-Moorish style.\n\nThe arrival of the rich baker \"Mohamed Naïth Saïdi\" from the region of Larbaâ Nath Irathen to settle in the colonial town of Ménerville (Thenia) was a decisive turning point in the area of \"Aïth Aïcha\", because he married a cousin of Mohamed Seghir Boushaki, And built an entire district in a Moorish style in the center of which a first mosque was built in Lower Kabylia after French colonization.\n\nIt followed the successive arrival of many Kabylian families from Djurdjura, such as \"Redjouani\" and \"Djennadi\", to settle among the European settlers in Ménerville (Thenia) and thus promote the emergence of a nationalist consciousness halfway between Tizi Ouzou and Algiers.\n\nThe consecration of the process of reappropriation of public, institutional and social space in Kabylie by the original inhabitants found a legal breach through the Jonnart Law proclaimed on 4 February 1919 by Charles Jonnart and allowing the Algerians to elect and be elected to the municipal assemblies.\n\nThus, the first post-war municipal elections took place in Algeria on November 30, 1919, in which Mohamed Seghir Boushaki and participated.\n\nThe struggle of Mohamed Seghir after 1919 revolves around the struggle in , while remaining hostile to naturalization but also fighting for equality between native Algerians and French colonizers in a very difficult context.\n\nThe election of Mayor of Ménerville (Thenia) and his deputies took place on Sunday, December 7, 1919, in the elections of the Municipality where \"César Boniface\" as mayor, and his deputies \"Auguste Schneider\", \"Georges Egrot\" And \"Samuel Juvin\", were elected all with 23 votes out of a total of 24 voters.\n\nMohamed Seghir was elected as city councilor representing the of \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\" in the Municipality of Ménerville within the \"César Boniface\" team for 5 years from 1920 to 1925.\n\nSeveral other sat at the Ménerville Town Hall next to Mohamed Seghir and represented their respective Douars surrounding the colonial city.\n\nAs early as 1920, Mohamed Seghir Boushaki with integrated the political strategy of entrenchment into the administrative apparatus and the colonial cultural sphere, equipped with the elective immunity that enabled them to travel the Department of Algiers without hindrance to meet the nationalist elites of all edges.\n\nThis electoral entablature enabled Mohamed Seghir to benefit from several privileges of the position of municipal councilor such as obtaining a concession to operate a farmland of 70 hectares located south-east of the city of Merverville on the flank of the village \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\" and a short distance from .\n\nThe \"Emir Khaled\" took advantage of this entryism and infiltration to visit also the villages and villages of the Department of Algiers, as his grandfather the Emir Abdelkader also used to preach more rights to Algerians than those granted by the Jonnart Law.\n\nAn abundant political activity of Mohamed Seghir with the Emir Khaled continued until the exile of this last in 1923 by the colonial administration towards Egypt to try to temper the emancipatory impetus Algerian and Kabyle.\n\nIn 1924, Mohamed Seghir obtained a permit to open a \"Moorish Café\" in downtown Ménerville overlooking the bustling Avenue de la Republique, where his son M'Hamed Boushaki (1907-1995) went To work with his brothers until the outbreak of the Algerian independence revolution in November 1, 1954.\n\nLittle by little Mohamed Seghir became part of the colonial political game and began to position his cousins and relatives in administrative and service jobs in the \"Canton of Alma (Boudouaou)\" and in Algiers in order to reinforce the Kabyle presence in the capital of their despoiled ancestral land.\n\nMohamed Seghir Boushaki did not however break his spiritual and family ties with the followers of the Zawiyas Rahmaniyya of Tizi Ouzou who often visited him at his home in Ménerville, made a passage to his \"Moorish Café\" during their movements and sat as him in the 27th electoral circle of Tizi Ouzou like him in the 29th constituency of Alma (Boudouaou).\n\nDuring the religious festivals, human foot convoys of Kabyle Sufis linked the villages of the \"Aïth Aïcha\" with those of the \"Aïth Guechtoula\" of Boghni with psalmodies, recitations and intonations all along the route of about 40 km.\n\nThe pilgrims and Kabyle disciples started from the Zawiyas of to reach the in order to celebrate the Mawlid each year.\n\nMohamed Seghir then built a volunteer house of passengers at \"Thala Oufella (Soumâa)\" to welcome these Sufi disciples during their religious wanderings.\n\nHe had previously sent his son \"M'Hamed Boushaki\" as well as his other brothers to study in the \"Boumerdassi Zawiya\" south of Tidjelabine.\n\nMeanwhile, his elder brother \"Ali Boushaki\" (1855-1965) had taken a theologian route to become one of the muftis of according to the Maliki rite and was named Mokaddem of the tarika Rahmaniyya in the region between The and the Djurdjura, as well as his position as Imam of the preaching at the Mosque of Ménerville.\n\nCouncilor Mohamed Seghir Boushaki excelled from 1920 to 1925 in political, social and religious lobbying during his first political mandate following the promulgation of the Jonnart Act.\n\nThus Mohamed Seghir mobilized the ardor of many Algerian councilors for the making and signing of \"Petition No. 30\" dated July 18, 1920, where he protested with several of his colleagues to the Senate against the provisions of a bill tabled in the Chamber by the French Government on the regulation of the Indigénat system in Algeria and the accession of Algerians of origin to political rights.\n\nThis \"Petition No. 30\" by Mohamed Seghir and his associates was examined by the of the time who was as of the senatorial session under the French Third Republic.\n\nMohamed Seghir had thoroughly studied the decision-making mechanisms of the resolutions of the Petitions Committees under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the French Senate which stipulated that any senator could ask for the report in public sitting of a petition whatever the classification which the commission has assigned to him at his request, addressed in writing to the President of the Senate, so that this report is presented in the sitting the Senate. After the expiry of the period prescribed for the processing of a petition, the resolutions of the Committee shall become final in respect of petitions which are not to be the subject of a public report and shall be referred to in the Journal officiel de la République française.\n\nThus \"Petition No. 30\" came into existence and was thoroughly discussed before being published in the Official Journal of May 20, 1921.\n\nIt was the \"\" which had debated this petition under the presidency of Léon Bourgeois.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18947727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18947727", "title": "Nalini Ranjan Chatterjee", "text": "Nalini Ranjan Chatterjee\n\nSir Nalini Ranjan Chatterjee (died 6 September 1942) was a judge of the Calcutta High Court, India from 1910 to 1926 and officiated as Chief Justice on three occasions. He was knighted in the New Year Honours in 1920. He became a member of the Viceroy's Executive Council post retirement.\n\nIt was said of Chatterjee by then Chief Justice Rankin that not a single judgment of the former was set aside by the Privy Council.\n"}
{"id": "2412067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2412067", "title": "Pascal-Firmin Ndimira", "text": "Pascal-Firmin Ndimira\n\nPascal-Firmin Ndimira (born 9 April 1956) was Prime Minister of Burundi from 31 July 1996 until 12 June 1998, when the post was abolished.\n\nNdimira, an ethnic Hutu from Ngozi province, is a member of the Union for National Progress (UPRONA) party. He was born in Muyinga.\n"}
{"id": "465355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=465355", "title": "Paul Joseph James Martin", "text": "Paul Joseph James Martin\n\nJoseph James Guillaume Paul Martin, (June 23, 1903 – September 14, 1992), often referred to as Paul Martin, Sr, was a noted Canadian politician and diplomat. He was the father of Paul Martin, who served as 21st Prime Minister of Canada from 2003–2006.\n\nMartin was born in Ottawa, Ontario, the son of Lumina (née Chouinard) and Joseph Philippe Ernest Martin. His Irish Catholic paternal grandfather's family immigrated from County Mayo, and his mother and paternal grandmother were French Canadian with deep roots in the country.\n\nMartin contracted polio in 1907. Martin was raised in Pembroke, Ontario, in the Ottawa River Valley, although he attended high school at Collège Saint-Alexandre in Gatineau, Quebec. He completed his university education at the University of Toronto, and earned his law degree from Osgoode Hall Law School. Later, Martin studied at the Graduate Institute of International Studies, Geneva, on a scholarship.\n\nMartin later opened a law practice in Windsor, Ontario.\n\nA member of the Liberal Party of Canada, he was first elected to the House of Commons in 1935 and entered the cabinet in 1945. He went on to serve as a noted member of the cabinets of four Prime Ministers: William Lyon Mackenzie King, Louis St. Laurent, Lester B. Pearson and Pierre Trudeau.\n\nMartin was viewed as one of the most left-wing members of the Liberal cabinet, and as Minister of National Health and Welfare from 1946 to 1957 he played an important role in the fight against polio and overseeing the creation of hospital insurance in Canada, and is sometimes recognized as a father of medicare. Martin served as Secretary of State for External Affairs in the Pearson government, and was instrumental in the acquisition of U.S. nuclear weapons for Canadian Forces.\n\nHe ran for the Liberal leadership three times, in 1948, in 1958 and 1968, but was defeated at all three Liberal leadership conventions, first by Louis St. Laurent, then by Lester B. Pearson, then by Pierre Trudeau.\n\nTrudeau appointed him to the Senate in 1968. He served as Leader of the Government in the Senate until 1974 when he was appointed High Commissioner to the United Kingdom. He also served as Chancellor of Wilfrid Laurier University from 1972–1977, as a result of which the university named the Paul Martin Centre in his honour. Until his death Paul Martin was an Adjunct Professor of Political Science at the University of Windsor.\n\nHis two volume memoirs, \"A Very Public Life\", was published in 1983 () and 1986 ( ).\n\nIn 1976 he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada. In recognition of his accomplishments, Martin was granted the right to use the honorific Right Honourable in 1992, a rare honour for one who has never been Prime Minister, Governor-General or Chief Justice of Canada.\n\nThe University of Windsor has a Paul Martin Chair in law and political science, recently held by former Manitoba Premier Howard Pawley (until his retirement from the University of Windsor), and the Paul Martin Law Library. The City of Windsor had also renamed their \"Post Office Building\" the Paul Martin Sr. Building in his honour on November 18, 1994.\n\n\n \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14605688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14605688", "title": "Pirouz Davani", "text": "Pirouz Davani\n\nPirouz Davani (1961–1998~) () is, or was, an Iranian leftist activist and editor of the \"Pirouz\" (Persian: \"Victorious\") newspaper. He disappeared on 28 August 1998 while leaving his residence in Tehran. Some have suggested that Davani was murdered.\n\nPirooz Davani joined the Iranian Revolution against the Pahlavi dynasty as a youth. After the revolution succeeded he was arrested in 1981 \"for his alleged links to the communist opposition\" and was imprisoned.\n\nFollowing the 1988 mass execution of political prisoners, he is reported to have launched a campaign against the government. \"In winter of 1991, Pirooz was again arrested for his activities and after spending six months in solitary confinement, was sentenced to four years in prison. He was released from prison in 1995\".\n\nFollowing the election of president Mohammad Khatami he \"established a cultural institute to publish and promote new interpretation of left's struggle for democracy in Iran\", which \"lead to creation of the Organisation of Unity for Democracy in Iran.\"\n\nHe later established the \"Pirouz\" newspaper which was openly critical of the Government.\n\nIn September 1998, Davani's brother Majid announced that Davani had been \"abducted\" by \"plain-clothes officers\" from Iran's Ministry of Intelligence.\n\nDavani is thought he may have been a victims of Iran's \"chain murders\" of Iranian dissidents, though his body has never been recovered and no records of imprisonment have ever been published. His disappearance occurred several months before the murders of four other Iranian dissidents in November 1998. In December 1998, Amnesty International issued a public statement that they had received reports that Davani's mother had been contacted anonymously and told her son had been killed. According to unconfirmed reports at the time, she suffered a fatal heart attack upon hearing the news.\n\nIn November 2004, Reporters Without Borders reported:\n\n"}
{"id": "3522181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3522181", "title": "Richard Coote, 1st Earl of Bellomont", "text": "Richard Coote, 1st Earl of Bellomont\n\nRichard Coote, 1st Earl of Bellomont (sometimes spelled Bellamont, 1636 – 5 March 1700/01), known as The Lord Coote between 1683–89, was a member of the English Parliament and a colonial governor. Born in Ireland, he was an early supporter of William III and Mary II, siding with them in the Glorious Revolution.\n\nIn 1695 he was given commissions as governor of the provinces of New York, Massachusetts Bay, and New Hampshire, which he held until his death. He did not arrive in the New World until 1698, and spent most of his tenure as governor in New York. He spent a little over a year in Massachusetts, and only two weeks in New Hampshire. His time in New York was marked by divisive politics resulting from Leisler's Rebellion (1689–91), and difficult and ultimately unsuccessful negotiations to keep the Iroquois from engaging in peace talks with New France. Frontier issues were also in the forefront during his time in Massachusetts and New Hampshire, where lumber and security from the Abenaki threat dominated his tenure.\n\nHe was a major financial sponsor of William Kidd, whose privateering was later deemed to have descended into piracy. Bellomont engineered the arrest of Kidd in Boston, and had him returned to England, where he was tried, convicted, and hanged.\n\nRichard Coote was born in Ireland in 1636. He was the second son, but the first to survive infancy, of Richard Coote, third son of Sir Charles Coote, 1st Baronet, and Mary, daughter of Sir George St George. His father was created Baron Coote of Coloony in 1660 (on the same day as his uncle was created Earl of Mountrath), and he succeeded his father as Baron Coote on the latter's death on 10 July 1683.\n\nLittle is recorded of his early years. In 1677 he is known to have killed a man in a duel for the affections of a young lady. He did not marry her, however, and in 1680 he married Catherine, the daughter of Bridges Nanfan and the eventual heir to Birtsmorton Court in Worcestershire. They had two sons.\n\nFollowing the accession of the pro-Catholic James II to the English throne, Coote, a Protestant, moved to the Continent and served as a captain of horse in the Dutch army. Because of the family's record of service to Charles II, his absence from court eventually drew the king's attention, and he was summoned back to court in 1687. He was one of the first to join William of Orange in the Glorious Revolution of 1688 that brought William III and Mary II to the throne. He was rewarded for this loyalty with an appointment as Treasurer to the Queen in 1689, a post he held until 1694. It also drew unfavourable attention in the Irish Parliament. That body, still under the influence of James, attainted him and seized his lands. As a result of this, William on 2 November 1689 created him Earl of Bellomont, and granted him over of forfeited Irish lands. The land grant was highly controversial in Parliament, and was eventually rescinded by William. He was also rewarded with the governorship of County Leitrim.\n\nBellomont was Member of Parliament for Droitwich from 1688 to 1695. In the 1690s he became involved in the attempts by Jacob Leisler's son to clear his father's name. Leisler had been a leading force in the New York rebellion against the Dominion of New England established by King James. Upon the arrival of Henry Sloughter as governor of New York, Leisler was arrested, tried, and executed for treason, and his properties were seized. Leisler's son Jacob Jr. traveled to England to argue the case for restoration of the family properties. Bellomont sat on the Parliamentary committee that examined the evidence, and spoke in Parliament in support of the Leisler's case. He strongly stated his view that Leisler and son-in-law Jacob Milborne had been \"barbarously murdered\" by Sloughter's actions in a letter to Massachusetts colonial agent Increase Mather. Young Leisler's efforts were successful: Parliament voted to reverse the attainder, and ordered that the family properties be restored.\n\nThe death in 1695 of Sir William Phips vacated the governorship of the Province of Massachusetts Bay. Colonial agents lobbied to select either Wait Winthrop or Joseph Dudley, both native sons, to replace Phips, but the king, wanting someone who would better represent crown authority, selected Bellomont. Since William wanted someone who could exert authority over more of New England, he was also given the governorships of New Hampshire, and New York. The major concern that Bellomont was instructed to address was ongoing problems with piracy, including the open commerce with pirates that went on in New York City and Rhode Island.\nBellomont's commissions were not finalized until 1 June 1697. While they were being worked on, New York colonial agent Robert Livingston proposed to Bellomont that a privateer be outfitted to combat piracy, and recommended William Kidd be its captain. This scheme received the assent of King William, who issued a letter of marque to Kidd for the purpose, as well as a special commission for dealing with pirates. Bellomont raised £6,000 (including £1,000 of his own money, and funds from some of the Lords of the Admiralty) to outfit Kidd's ship.\n\nBellomont sailed for New York in late 1697, accompanied by his wife and her cousin, John Nanfan, who had been appointed Lieutenant Governor of New York. The voyage was exceptionally stormy, and Bellomont's ship was blown well south, eventually putting into Barbados before continuing on to New York. He arrived in New York City on 2 April 1698. Bellomont's stylish dress, good looks, and positive relationship with the king predisposed New Yorkers to like him, but he very quickly ran into difficulties and began making enemies.\n\nHis attempts to enforce the Navigation Acts predictably turned merchants and traders against him. These attempts were also poorly executed by colonial officials whose interests lay more with those merchants than they did with the crown. He raised the anger of Leisler's opponents by implementing the parliamentary act he had helped pass, and saw through the restoration of Leisler's properties. There was so much opposition within his council to this that he ended up purging the council of those opposed. Bellomont also approved the exhumation of the remains of Leisler and his son-in-law Jacob Milborne, which had been unceremoniously buried under the gallows from which they had been hanged. He sanctioned a proper burial, and provide an honour guard of 100 soldiers for the service.\n\nBellomont's support of the Leislerians proved to be costly, not just in terms of New York politics, but in Indian diplomacy as well. Benjamin Fletcher, Bellomont's predecessor in office, had taken advantage of the long period between Bellomont's appointment and arrival to make some questionable land grants, including extended leases to properties normally allocated for the governor's use, and in territories that were still claimed by the Iroquois. When the provincial assembly passed a law retracting all of these irregular grants, it predictably angered a number of large landowners. Land grants made in Iroquois territory to Godfridius Dellius, the influential pastor of the Dutch Reformed Church in Albany, and others were a specific subject of Iroquois complaints. Even though Bellomont's law was passed, the grantees appealed to the Board of Trade, and the bill never received royal assent.\nBellomont denied Dellius and other anti-Leislerians positions of importance in dealing with the Iroquois, resulting in the loss of experienced negotiators. This affected internal Iroquois politics, since supporters of interaction with the English lost influence when their English counterparts were sidelined. This came at a particularly delicate time, when Bellomont was working to strengthen the Covenant Chain that had been neglected by Fletcher.\n\nAfter the Treaty of Ryswick ended war between the French and English in 1697, the French continued to make war on the Iroquois (primarily through their Algonquian allies in the Great Lakes region), and inflicted significant casualties on them. The Iroquois sought the assistance of the English to combat this, threatening to make peace with the French if they did not receive help. Bellomont and French Governor General Louis-Hector de Callière both claimed dominance over the Iroquois, and each refused to acknowledge the other's right to intercede on their behalf. When Callière summoned the Iroquois to Montreal for negotiations in 1699, Bellomont was alerted, and successfully manoeuvred the Iroquois into not going by sending an emissary to Montreal and troops to Albany under Lieutenant Governor Nanfan. The English emissary was unsuccessful in swaying the French from their course of action, and French-allied Algonquians made incursions deep into Iroquois territory in 1700.\n\nIn negotiations with the Iroquois, Bellomont overlooked some of the social elements that Iroquois customs demanded, with the result that the parties ended with differing views of how successful their councils were. Bellomont believed they went well, even though it was fairly clear that the Iroquois negotiators were unhappy with how the discussion had gone. He promised them the construction of a fort at Onondaga, and even convinced the legislature to appropriate £1,000 for its construction, but the Iroquois were evasive on accepting this \"gift\", and never showed English engineers suitable locations for a fort. Bellomont's attempts to prevent the Iroquois from dealing with the French were negated by the French military successes of 1700, which brought the Iroquois to a peace council that resulted in the 1701 Great Peace of Montreal.\n\nIn May 1699 Bellomont sailed for Boston. Bellomont spent 14 months in New England in 1699 and 1700, spending a few weeks of that time in New Hampshire and the rest in Massachusetts. In Massachusetts he was treated politely, but his attempts to implement the crown's policies ran into trouble, as they had in New York. He was refused a salary by the colonial legislature, although the \"gift\" of £1,000 he received was more than that typically given other governors of the province. The legislature also made repeated attempts to limit appeals to London of judicial decisions handed down by provincial courts. Bellomont, as he was required to do, forwarded laws passed by the legislature to the Board of Trade for approval; these laws were repeatedly struck down because of provisions that attempted to limit royal prerogatives. He also sided politically against Lieutenant Governor William Stoughton, who was an ally of Joseph Dudley, a Massachusetts native who had presided over the trial of Jacob Leisler. Instead he took council with the populist leader Elisha Cooke, Sr.\n\nNot long after his arrival in Boston, Bellomont engineered the arrest of William Kidd. Rumors had reached the colonies that Kidd had descended into piracy, and he came to be viewed by Bellomont and the other high-profile investors in Kidd's ship as a liability. In November 1698 the Admiralty issued orders to all colonial governors to apprehend Kidd. When he was informed by an agent of Kidd's in June 1699 that Kidd was in the area, Bellomont sent a message back to Kidd, promising clemency. Kidd responded that he would come, sending some of his treasures as a present to Lady Bellomont; she refused them.\n\nAfter Kidd's arrival in Boston on 3 July, Bellomont demanded from Kidd a written account of his travels, which Kidd, after haggling over the time, agreed to deliver on the morning of 6 July. When he did not do so, Bellomont issued a warrant for his arrest. It was executed as Kidd was en route to see Bellomont at midday the same day. Kidd then attempted to negotiate his freedom, using the secret locations of his treasure and a captured prize ship as bargaining chips. Although a portion of Kidd's treasure was recovered, it did not buy Kidd's freedom, and he was shipped to London in April 1700, where he was tried, convicted, and hanged. In contrast to the relative secrecy with which he conducted some of his communications with Kidd, Bellomont was scrupulous in his dealings with other potentially questionable merchant and pirate business, despite being offered as much as £5,000 to overlook illicit activities.\n\nMatters of frontier security and the lumber trade dominated his brief administration in New England. New England was recognized as an important source of ship masts for the Royal Navy, and the Board of Trade and the Admiralty sought to reserve suitable trees for the crown's benefit. In both provinces he encountered opposition to entrenched land and timber interests that resented the intrusion of surveyors onto their lands, and interfered with their taking of lumber from lands that had not been granted and were thus reserved to the crown.\n\nIn New Hampshire the timber dispute was overlaid by ongoing disputes between local landowners and Samuel Allen, a London merchant who had acquired the territorial claims of the heirs of John Mason, the province's founder, and was pursuing them against those landowners. Allen, who had been commissioned governor of the province in 1692, only came to the colony in 1698 to take a direct interest in its affairs. During Bellomont's brief visit to New Hampshire in July and August 1699, Allen attempted to buy him to his side. Allen offered his daughter (with a large dowry) as a marriage match for the earl's son; Bellomont refused the offer.\n\nThe frontier situation that Bellomont encountered during his time in Massachusetts and New Hampshire was somewhat tense, because the Abenaki of northern New England (like the Iroquois in New York) had not been involved in the Treaty of Ryswick that ended King William's War. In the aftermath of the war they and the settlers of Maine and New Hampshire were extremely mistrustful of one another. The Abenaki felt threatened by English encroachment on their lands, and the settlers feared a return to significant French-inspired raiding of their settlements. Bellomont issued proclamations to distribute among the Abenaki denying plans to take their lands, but was unable to ease the underlying tensions. One reason for this was his naive assumption that Abenaki concerns were rooted in a French Catholic conspiracy. When English negotiators attempted to separate the Abenaki from their Jesuit missionaries, this upset ongoing trade negotiations, and did nothing to assuage Puritan New England concerns over the activities of \"Popish Emissaries\" intriguing to make war on them. The colonial legislature passed a law banning Roman Catholics from territory claimed by the province, which included Abenaki territory claimed by Governor Sir William Phips in 1693. Bellomont engaged in fruitless attempts to convince the eastern Abenaki to migrate west, where they would come under Iroquois influence; this was unsuccessful, in part because the Abenaki and Iroquois had a history of conflict. Despite these difficulties, he managed to achieve a precarious peace with the Abenaki in January 1699.\n\nAbenaki relations were also complicated by misunderstandings about sovereignty. The Abenaki viewed themselves as sovereign, while the English believed them to be subjects, either to themselves or to the French. A prisoner exchange involving English held by the Abenaki and Indians held by the English was frustrated when Bellomont believed that it would be sufficient to negotiate with his counterpart in Quebec to obtain the release of the English prisoners.\n\nHe returned to New York in 1700, where he resumed actions against piracy and illegal shipping. Following a conference with the Iroquois at Albany in early 1700/1 (which Bellomont characterized as \"greatest fatigue [I] ever underwent\"), he returned to New York City, where he succumbed to a severe case of gout on 5 March 1700/01. He was buried in the chapel of Fort William. When the fort was dismantled, his remains were moved to the yard of St. Paul's Chapel.\n\nLieutenant Governor Nanfan acted as New York's governor until the arrival of Lord Cornbury in 1702. Nanfan, during his brief tenure, reached the peace agreement that eluded Bellomont. In an agreement negotiated later in 1701, the Iroquois signed an agreement putting their westernmost territorial claims (spanning from present-day Erie, Pennsylvania to Chicago and northern Michigan) under the English crown's protection.\n\nBellomont's eldest son, Nanfan, Lord Coloony, succeeded to the earldom on his death. His second son Richard, succeeded in turn as 3rd earl on his elder brother's death. On the 3rd earl's death without surviving male heirs, the earldom became extinct, while the barony devolved on his cousin, Sir Charles Coote, who was later also created Earl of Bellomont. He died without male issue, and all of the titles were then extinguished.\n\nBellomont's rule in New York was not remembered fondly. One political opponent, noting that the provincial debt rose substantially during his tenure, wrote that the memory of Bellomont \"will stink in the nostrills of all good men\", and Robert Livingston reported that the debt was \"a greater Debt than I had ever seen\". Bellomont's personal affairs were also difficult to tie up: his creditors tried (unsuccessfully) to prevent his wife's departure from the province in order to compel settlement of his personal debts. Bellomont's financial issues were not unique in this respect. Later governors (including Nanfan and Cornbury) were arrested on charges of malfeasance and personal indebtedness at the behest of their political opponents. New York's debt problems were not resolved until the Hunter administration in 1717.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17239128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17239128", "title": "Richard and Linda J. Eyre", "text": "Richard and Linda J. Eyre\n\nRichard M. Eyre (born 1944) is a consultant, speaker, and author of many books. He was also a candidate for the Republican nomination for Utah Governor in 1992.\n\nEyre holds degrees from Utah State University and Brigham Young University and an MBA from Harvard. His wife, Linda J. Eyre, has a degree from Utah State University.\n\nThe Eyres have written over a dozen books, with several of them becoming bestsellers. These include \"Teaching Your Children Values\", which was the first parenting book to make it to the position of #1 New York Times bestseller since Dr. Spock's book. Eyre's \"Spiritual Serendipity: Cultivating and Celebrating the Art of the Unexpected\" was published by Simon & Schuster in 1997. Other books by Eyre include \"The Discovery of Joy\" (1974), \"Teaching Children Joy\" (1986), \"The Birth We Call Death\" with Paul H. Dunn, \"Life Before Life\" (2000) and \"How to Talk to Your Children About Sex,\" written with Linda. Besides writing these non-fiction works, Eyre wrote a novel entitled \"The Awakening\".\nA more recent book by the Eyres, \"Empty Nesting Parenting: Adjusting Your Stewardship as Your Children Leave Home\", has been recommended as reading for parents of college students.\n\nLinda Eyre has also written several books on being a mother on her own or with other female authors. \n\nThe Eyres have hosted the program \"Families Are Forever\" on the VISN Network. They have 9 children, and have lived in both Washington, D.C. and Salt Lake City, Utah.\n\nRichard Eyre is a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). As a young man, Eyre served as a missionary in New York City. He later served as a mission president in the church's England London South Mission. Baptisms spiked in the mission after the results of an opinion poll on parenthood conducted by Eyre were published in such publications as the London Evening Standard. \n\nEyre wrote the Encyclopedia of Mormonism article on Joy. He also wrote the section on the views of LDS Church in \"How Different Religions View Death and Afterlife: Second Edition\" Edited by Christopher Jay Johnson and Marsha McGee.\n\nDuring the Reagan administration, Eyre served as the director of the White House Conference on Parents and Children. \n\nEyre has also been a long-time advocate of schools of choice and voucher programs. He was a candidate for the governorship of Utah with this as one of his major campaign planks in 1992. Eyre won the support of the Republican State convention but lost to Mike Leavitt in the later Republican primary. Eyre has since been a major supporter of vouchers, and was one of the key speakers for the voucher proposition on Utah's 2007 ballot.\n\nLinda has also served as a member of the Utah State University board of trustees.\n\nThe Eyres also serve as board members of CHOICE humanitarian and have been involved in projects to bring wells to villages in such countries as Bolivia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38936793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38936793", "title": "Robbie Roscoe", "text": "Robbie Roscoe\n\nRobbie Roscoe is a fictional character from the British Channel 4 soap opera, \"Hollyoaks\", played by Charlie Wernham. He made his first screen appearance on 2 April 2013. Robbie is part of the Roscoe family and the first member to be introduced. On 19 March 2013, a Channel 4 press release revealed that Robbie \"leads the way for a family of boys to descend on \"Hollyoaks\", headed by Gillian Taylforth as mother, Sandy.\" Wernham's casting was confirmed on 27 March 2013. Wernham auditioned for the show the previous year, attending his second audition on 24 October 2012. Daniel Kilkelly from Digital Spy later revealed Robbie is a \"troublesome new student\" and he would befriend established character Callum Kane (Laurie Duncan). The writer added that Robbie's headteacher Patrick Blake (Jeremy Sheffield) thinks he can control his behaviour. But Robbie soon begins to cause trouble.\n\nRobbie's notable storylines have included: working for Trevor Royle (Greg Wood); discover Darren Osborne (Ashley Taylor Dawson) is his half-brother; bullying his teacher, John Paul McQueen (James Sutton), with Finn O'Connor (Keith Rice); his relationship with John Paul's niece Phoebe McQueen (Mandip Gill); being reunited with his father Rick Spencer (Victor Gardener); pushing his twin brother Jason Roscoe (Alfie Browne-Sykes) off a cliff; working with Ben Bradley (Ben Richards) to bring down Trevor; and his affairs with his brother Freddie Roscoe's (Charlie Clapham) wife and Finn's sister Sinead O'Connor (Stephanie Davis) and Jason's wife Holly Cunningham (Amanda Clapham), and his infatuation with sister-in-law and teacher Nancy Osborne (Jessica Fox).\n\nIt was announced on the 25 March 2016 that Robbie and Jason would be departing from the programme and the twins left the serial on 28 March 2016.\n\nRobbie was created to pave the way for the rest of the Roscoe family to be introduced. Robbie was introduced as a sixth form student who was going to be trouble. Wernham auditioned for the show the previous year, attending his second audition on 24 October 2012. Daniel Kilkelly from Digital Spy later revealed Robbie is a \"troublesome new student\" and he would befriend established character Callum Kane (Laurie Duncan). The writer added that Robbie's headteacher Patrick Blake (Jeremy Sheffield) thinks he can control his behaviour. But Robbie soon begins to cause trouble.\n\nIt was announced that Robbie would have a crush on teacher Nancy. The crush begins when she is helping him prepare for his exams. Jessica Fox who plays Nancy said that she didn't like how Nancy was getting on.\n\nWernham briefly departed Hollyoaks to film The Bad Education Movie.\nHollyoaks wrote Robbie out by sending him to prison for the assault on Dirk Savage.\n\nDuring the Hollyoaks Summer 2015 trailer, it was shown that Robbie and Holly would hook up. Charlie Wernham stated in an interview that Holly would be torn between Robbie and Jason. So far Ben Bradley is the only one who knows about this affair between them and he is using Robbie to get information on Trevor in exchange he won't tell Jason about the affair. When discussing Holly and Robbie's affair, Wernham explains to Digital Spy \"Robbie and Holly sleeping together comes out of nowhere and it shocks both of them. I think it sparks something in Robbie and he realises that he has feelings for her, which is not good when Holly is going out with his brother! That will be an ongoing thing. I didn't know it was going to happen until I read the scripts. At first I thought it was going to be a one-off thing and they'd be trying to hide it from Jason, but it's not - Robbie starts to develop feelings for her.\" In an interview Wernham admitted that he would be surprised if his on-screen brother would let Robbie's affair with Holly go. When Robbie's departure was announced Wernham stated \"This time, I felt that it was the right time for me to do other things - given my age, the amount of time I'd been in the show and where my character was at.\" in an interview.\n\nRobbie arrives for his first day at college where the headteacher Patrick Blake (Jeremy Sheffield) warns him not to cause trouble. He is mentored by Callum Kane (Laurie Duncan) but decides to truant college. Robbie begins to terrorise Doug Carter (PJ Brennan) and vandalise his delicatessen business. Doug reports Robbie to Patrick, much to his annoyance. Robbie and Callum notice Doug kissing John Paul McQueen (James Sutton) as they deface Patrick's car. Robbie puts pictures of the incident around college and John Paul loses his job. Robbie asks Callum to help him sell drugs and he agrees. Robbie helps Ste Hay (Kieron Richardson) deliver drug orders to buyers. Robbie steals a van with Callum and Sinead O'Connor (Stephanie Davis) and runs over Sinead's brother Finn O'Connor (Keith Rice). Rather than help him, they drive off and Robbie threatens Sinead to convince Finn to lie to the police. Robbie plans an armed robbery at Price Slice and enlists the help of Finn and Callum, but Callum changes his mind and attempts to prevent the robbery but he is shot in the struggle. When Robbie's mother Sandy (Gillian Taylforth) learns of the robbery she sends him to stay with his aunt.\n\nRobbie and Finn begin terrorising John Paul. They begin by teasing him about his sexuality and the situation ends when Finn rapes John Paul after hitting him over the head with a statue. Weeks later, when Finn is in hospital after a quad bike accident, Robbie continues teasing John Paul, locking him in a store cupboard and then teasing him over his sexuality again. This concludes when John Paul hits Robbie. When visiting Finn in hospital, Robbie finds out that he raped John Paul and is horrified, threatening to call the police. Since his discovery, Robbie begins to change and starts to stick up for John Paul, changing his statement when John Paul is up in court for hitting him. However, Finn changes it back and John Paul goes down. Robbie ditches his bad boy attitude and begins working towards his A-levels with the help of cover teacher Nancy Osborne (Jessica Fox). He begins dating Phoebe McQueen (Mandip Gill). However, he begins to develop feelings for Nancy as she starts to help him with his A-level work more and kisses her. Phoebe finds texts on his phone apologising to Nancy and later sees them getting close. She decides to tell Nancy's boyfriend and ex-husband Darren (Ashley Taylor Dawson), who is Robbie's half-brother. However, they later reconcile.\n\nBad news for Robbie as he discover that his father Rick Spencer (Victor Gardener) arrived on town to see him and Jason, but more tragedy strikes as Jason was suffered body dysmorphic disorder, and their father is knocked unconscious by Joe and later dies in hospital after being given an overdose of morphine by an unknown killer. Robbie and Jason are led to believe Joe's punch killed Rick and Jason forgives Joe, though Robbie resents him and begins to act recklessly by stealing cars and assaulting Dirk Savage after he belittled him in the street because Robbie was anonymously blackmailing Dirk Savage (David Kennedy). Robbie eventually owns up to his mistake and turns himself in to the police.\n\nA day before being released John-Paul visits him to tell him that Phoebe has been shot. The next day, Robbie is released and goes straight to hospital and barricades himself in Phoebe's hospital room, terrified she will die during her brain surgery. Joe and Freddie talk him out and Phoebe has a successful operation. Phoebe then tells him it was Grace who shot her, and Robbie tries to get revenge on Grace. Before he can do any harm, Joe tells him that it was him who shot Phoebe. Robbie then disowns Joe and proposes to Phoebe, which she agrees. When Robbie went to buy an engagement ring, Phoebe is murdered by the Gloved Hand Killer. Believing Joe to be the reason she died, Robbie attacks him with a crowbar, causing him to lose the use of his legs. Joe then lies to the police for Robbie. Nancy comforts Robbie after Phoebe's death eventually leading to them having sex after Phoebe's funeral.\n\nRobbie then returns to work for Trevor and when he finds out that he's planning to kill Kim Butterfield (Daisy Wood-Davis). He asks Trevor to let him send her out of the country instead. Trevor however puts drugs in Kim's bags and when Jason pull them over Robbie runs off with the bag to let Kim escape. Robbie and Jason argue, with Robbie revealing he told Jason's fiancée Holly Cunningham (Amanda Clapham) that her mother, Cindy (Stephanie Waring), kissed him. The fight turns physical ending with Robbie pushing Jason off a cliff. Robbie flees the scene and later has sex with Holly. Ben Bradley (Ben Richards) arrests Robbie but gives him a choice: inform him on Trevor or he'll make sure that Robbie will go back to prison and that Jason will know that he slept with Holly. Robbie agrees to work for him and informs him that Trevor and Ashley Davidson (Kierston Wareing) are planning to kidnap Patrick. Trevor and Ashley realise that somebody told the police and kidnap Holly, suspecting it was her. Robbie then texts Jason and he manages to convince Trevor and Ashley to let Holly go. Robbie then tells Ben he cannot work for him anymore and goes to tell Holly that he loves her, but found out that Jason bet him to it and they are back together, however Robbie and Holly pursue an affair behind Jason's back.\n\nMonths later, Jason finds out about Robbie and Holly on his and Holly's wedding day after Nico Blake (Persephone Swales-Dawson) sends a video of Robbie confessing his love to Holly, from Dr. Charles S'avage's (Andrew Greenough) laptop, to Jason out of jealousy. Jason ends up taking steroids again and tries to force himself on to Holly. After convincing from Freddie, Holly lies to Robbie and tells him that she slept with Jason again, ending things between them. In March 2016, Robbie and Jason decide leave to live in South Africa with Sandy, choosing life with each other over life with Holly and in April 2016 he never found out that Lindsey had killed him and Jason's dad Rick or Phoebe.\n\nWhen describing Robbie in an interview, Channel Four made a comment that Charlie wasn't a toe rag like Robbie. The affair between Holly and Robbie has been described as \"scandalous\".\n"}
{"id": "4421340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4421340", "title": "Satyajit Ray filmography", "text": "Satyajit Ray filmography\n\nSatyajit Ray (; 2 May 1921 – 23 April 1992) was an Indian filmmaker who worked prominently in Bengali cinema and who has often been regarded as one of the great directors of world cinema. Ray was born in Calcutta (now Kolkata) to a Bengali family and started his career as a junior visualiser. His meeting with French film director Jean Renoir, who had come to Calcutta in 1949 to shoot his film \"The River\" (1951), and his 1950 visit to London, where he saw Vittorio De Sica's \"Ladri di biciclette\" (\"Bicycle Thieves\") (1948), inspired Ray to become a film-maker. Ray made his directorial debut in 1955 with \"Pather Panchali\" and directed 36 films, comprising 29 feature films, five documentaries, and two short films.\n\nAlthough Ray's work generally received critical acclaim, his film \"Pather Panchali\" and \"Ashani Sanket\" (1973) were criticised for \"exporting poverty\" and \"distorting India's image abroad\". His \"Apu Trilogy\" (1955–1959) appeared in \"Time\" All-Time 100 Movies in 2005. Aside from directing, Ray composed music and wrote screenplays for films, both his own and those by other directors. Often credited as a fiction writer, illustrator, and calligrapher; Ray authored several short stories and novels in Bengali, most of which were aimed at children and adolescents. Some of his short stories have been adapted into films by other directors, including his only son, Sandip Ray. Considered a cultural icon in India and acknowledged for his contribution to Indian cinema, Ray has influenced several filmmakers around the world, including Wes Anderson, Martin Scorsese, James Ivory, François Truffaut and Carlos Saura.\n\nRay intended to make various other films, including \"The Alien\" which inspired Steven Spielberg's 1982 film \"E.T.\"; a documentary on Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar; an adaptation of the ancient Indian epic, the \"Mahābhārata\"; and an adaptation of E. M. Forster's 1924 novel, \"A Passage to India\". However, none had been started when he died in 1992.\n\nRay received numerous awards at international film festivals and elsewhere, including several Indian National Film Awards and an honorary Academy Award at the 64th Academy Awards in 1992. Ray was awarded India's highest award in cinema, the Dadasaheb Phalke Award, in 1984 and India's highest civilian award, Bharat Ratna, in 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9277960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9277960", "title": "Simeon Stylites III", "text": "Simeon Stylites III\n\nSimeon Stylites III was a pillar hermit bearing the same name as Simeon Stylites and Simeon Stylites the Younger.\n\nHe is honoured by both the Greek Orthodox Church and the Coptic Church. He is hence believed to have lived in the fifth century before the breach which occurred between these Churches. However, very little certain is known of him. He is believed to have been struck by lightning upon his pillar, built near Hegca in Cilicia.\n\n"}
{"id": "52681132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52681132", "title": "The last Jew in Vinnitsa", "text": "The last Jew in Vinnitsa\n\nThe last Jew in Vinnitsa is a photograph taken during the Holocaust in Ukraine showing a Jewish man near the town of Vinnitsa (Vinnytsia) about to be shot dead by a member of \"Einsatzgruppe D\", a mobile death squad of the Nazi SS. The victim is kneeling beside a mass grave already containing many bodies; behind a crowd of SS and Reich Labour Service men watch.\n\nThe photograph dates from some time between mid-1941, when the Germans occupied the oblast (region) of Vinnytsia, and 1943. During this period there were numerous massacres of Jews in the oblast, including in the town itself on 16 and 22 September 1941 and April 1942, after which those spared were sent to labour camps and the Yerusalimka quarter largely razed.\n\nThe photograph was circulated in 1961 by United Press (UP) during the trial of Adolf Eichmann. UP had received it from Al Moss (b.1910) a Polish Jew who acquired it in May 1945 shortly after he was liberated from Allach concentration camp by the American 3rd Army. Moss, living in Chicago in 1961, wanted people \"to know what went on in Eichmann's time\". The UP copy was published over a full page of \"The Forward\".\n\nSome later sources say that the original physical image was in an \"Einsatzgruppe\" member's photograph album, or removed from the pocket of a dead soldier; and that written on its reverse side was \"Last Jew in Vinnitsa\", now sometimes used as the image's name.\n\nThe photograph has become iconic. Some features are unusual among well-known Holocaust pictures: it was taken during the Holocaust rather than after its end, and presumably by someone complicit in the killing; it depicts \"Einsatzgruppen\" rather than concentration or extermination camps; the focus is on a solitary victim rather than a multitude.\n\nThe photograph has been reproduced, with different degrees of cropping, in many books and museum exhibits about the Holocaust. Books include ones by Guido Knopp and Michael Berenbaum. Exhibits include in Berlin at \"Questions on German History\" in the Reichstag building from 1971 to 1994, and then at Topography of Terror and the Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe; the Institute of National Remembrance in Poland; the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum; and Yad Vashem.\n\nThe photograph was used on the cover of Agnostic Front's 1984 album \"Victim in Pain\", in an ambiguous reference to the Nazi chic then part of the New York hardcore scene.\n"}
{"id": "194858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194858", "title": "Uri Geller", "text": "Uri Geller\n\nUri Geller (; ; born 20 December 1946) is an Israeli illusionist, magician, television personality, and self-proclaimed psychic. He is known for his trademark television performances of spoon bending and other illusions. Geller uses conjuring tricks to simulate the effects of psychokinesis and telepathy, which Geller consistently denies, claiming his powers are real. Geller's career as an entertainer has spanned more than four decades, with television shows and appearances in many countries.\n\nGeller was born on 20 December 1946 in Tel Aviv, which was then part of British-administered Mandatory Palestine. His mother and father were of Austrian-Jewish and Hungarian-Jewish background respectively. Geller is the son of Itzhaak Geller (Gellér Izsák), a retired army sergeant major, and Margaret \"Manzy\" Freud (Freud Manci). Geller claims that he is a distant relative of Sigmund Freud on his mother's side.\n\nAt the age of 11, Geller's family moved to Nicosia, Cyprus, where he attended high school, the Terra Santa College, and learned English. At the age of 18, he joined the Israeli Army's Paratroopers Brigade, with which he served in the 1967 Six-Day War and was wounded in action. He worked as a photographic model in 1968 and 1969; during that time, he began to perform for small audiences as a nightclub entertainer, becoming well known in Israel.\n\nGeller first started to perform in theatres, public halls, auditoriums, military bases and universities in Israel. By the 1970s, Geller had become known in the United States and Europe. He also received attention from the scientific community, whose members were interested in examining his reported psychic abilities. At the peak of his career in the 1970s, he worked full-time, performing for television audiences worldwide.\n\nGeller gained notice for demonstrating on television what he claimed to be psychokinesis, dowsing, and telepathy. His performance included bending spoons, describing hidden drawings, and making watches stop or run faster. Geller said he performs these feats through will power and the strength of his mind. Magicians and skeptics have noted that Geller has been caught cheating and his performances can be duplicated by stage magic tricks.\n\nIn 1975, Geller published his first autobiography, \"My Story\", and acknowledged that, in his early career, his manager talked him into adding a magic trick to make his performances last longer. This trick involved Geller appearing to guess audience members' license plate numbers, when in fact his manager had given them to him ahead of time. One of Geller's most prominent critics is the skeptic James Randi, who has accused Geller repeatedly of trying to pass off magic tricks as paranormal displays. Randi often duplicated Geller's performances using stage magic techniques.\n\nBy the mid 1980s Geller was described as \"a millionaire several times over\", and claimed to be performing mineral dowsing services for mining groups at a standard fee of £1 million. In June 1986 the \"Australian Skeptic\" reported that Geller had been paid A$350,000 and granted an option of 1,250,000 Zanec shares at 20c each until 5 June 1987.\nGeller starred in the 2001 horror film \"Sanitarium\", directed by Johannes Roberts and James Eaves. In May 2002, he appeared as a contestant on the first series of the British reality TV show \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\", where he was the first to be eliminated and finished in last place. In 2005, Geller starred in \"Uri's Haunted Cities: Venice\", a XI Pictures/Lion TV production for Sky One, which led to a behind the scenes release in early 2008 called \"Cursed\"; both productions were directed by Jason Figgis. In early 2007, Geller hosted a reality show in Israel called \"The Successor\" (), where the contestants supposedly displayed supernatural powers; Israeli magicians criticized the program saying that it was all magic tricks. In July 2007 NBC signed Geller and Criss Angel for \"Phenomenon\", to search for the next great mentalist; contestant Mike Super won the position. In January 2008, Geller began hosting the TV show \"The Next Uri Geller\", broadcast by Pro7 in Germany.\n\nIn February 2008, Geller began a show on Dutch television called \"De Nieuwe Uri Geller\", which shares a similar format to its German counterpart. The goal of the programme is to find the best mentalist in the Netherlands. In March 2008, he started the same show in Hungary (\"A kiválasztott\" in Hungarian). During the show, Geller speaks in both Hungarian and English. Geller also performs his standard routines of allegedly making stopped watches start, spoons jump from televisions, and tables move. Geller co-produced the TV show \"Book of Knowledge\", released in April 2008. In October 2009, a similar show, called \"The Successor of Uri Geller\", aired on Greek television.\n\nGeller has claimed his feats are the result of paranormal powers given to him by extraterrestrials, but critics such as James Randi have shown that Geller's tricks can be replicated with stage magic techniques.\n\nIn the early 1970s, an article in \"The Jerusalem Post\" reported that a court had ordered Geller to refund a customer's ticket price and pay court costs after finding that he had committed fraud by claiming that his feats were telepathic. In addition, a 1974 article also hints at Geller's abilities being trickery. The article alleged that his manager Shipi Shtrang and Shipi's sister Hannah Shtrang secretly helped in Geller's performances. Eventually, Geller married Hannah and they had children.\n\nThe parapsychologist Andrija Puharich met Geller in 1971 and endorsed him as a genuine psychic. Under hypnosis, Geller claimed he was sent to earth by extraterrestrials from a spaceship fifty-three thousand light years away. Geller would later deny the space-fantasy claims, but affirmed there \"is a slight possibility that some of my energies do have extraterrestrial connection.\" Puharich also stated that Geller teleported a dog through the walls of his house. However, science writer Martin Gardner wrote as \"no expert on fraud was there as an observer\" then nobody should take the claim of Puharich seriously.\n\nIn his biography of Geller, \"Uri: A Journal of the Mystery of Uri Geller\" (1974) Puharich claimed that with Geller he had communicated with super intelligent computers from outer space. According to Puharich the computers sent messages to warn humanity that a disaster is likely to occur if humans do not change their ways. The psychologist Christopher Evans who reviewed the book in the \"New Scientist\", wrote that although Puharich believed in every word he had written, the book was credulous and \"those fans of Geller's who might have hoped to have used the book as ammunition to impress the sceptics. They will be the most disappointed of all\". Randi has written the biography contained \"silly theories\" but was \"both a boost and a millstone to Geller\".\n\nGeller's spoon bending feats are discussed in \"The Geller Papers\" (1976), edited by Charles Panati. There was controversy when it was published. Several prominent magicians came forward to demonstrate that Geller’s so-called psychic talents could be easily duplicated by magic. Martin Gardner wrote that Panati had been fooled by Geller's trickery and \"The Geller Papers\" were an \"embarrassing anthology\".\n\nNotable scientists, magicians, and skeptics have suggested possible ways in which Geller could have tricked his audience by using misdirection techniques. These critics, who include Richard Feynman, James Randi and Martin Gardner, have accused him of using his demonstrations fraudulently outside of the entertainment business. Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard Feynman, who was an amateur magician, wrote in \"Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!\" (1985) that Geller was unable to bend a key for him and his son. Some of his claims have been described by watchmakers as simply restarting a stopped mechanical clock by moving it around.\n\nGeller is well known for making predictions regarding sporting events. Skeptic James Randi and British tabloid newspaper \"The Sun\" have demonstrated the teams and players he chooses to win most often lose. John Atkinson explored \"predictions\" Geller made over 30 years and concluded \"Uri more often than not scuppered [i.e., destroyed] the chances of sportsmen and teams he was trying to help.\" This was pointed out by one of Randi's readers, who called it \"The Curse of Uri Geller.\"\n\nDuring the Euro 96 football match between Scotland and England at Wembley, Geller, who was hovering overhead in a helicopter, claimed that he managed to move the ball from the penalty spot when Scotland's Gary McAllister was about to take a penalty kick, The penalty kick was saved and Scotland lost 2–0.\n\nIn another notable instance, in 1992, Geller was asked to investigate the kidnapping of Hungarian model Helga Farkas: he predicted she would be found alive and in good health, but she was never found and is widely believed to have been murdered by her kidnappers. Geller was a friend of Bruce Bursford and helped him \"train his mind\" during some cycling speed record-breaking bids in the 1990s.\n\nSince the publication of his first book, \"My Story\" in 1975, he claimed that his wealth originated from being commissioned as a mineral-dowser and not from bending spoons and forks. In 2007, skeptics observed that Geller appeared to have dropped his claims that he does not perform magic tricks. Randi highlighted a quotation from the November 2007 issue of the magazine \"Magische Welt\" (Magic World) in which Geller said: \"I'll no longer say that I have supernatural powers. I am an entertainer. I want to do a good show. My entire character has changed.\" In a later interview, Geller told \"Telepolis\", \"I said to this German magazine, so what I did say, that I changed my character, to the best of my recollection, and I no longer say that I do supernatural things. It doesn't mean that I don't have powers. It means that I don't say 'it's supernatural', I say 'I'm a mystifier!' That's what I said. And the skeptics turned it around and said, 'Uri Geller said he's a magician!' I never said that.\" In that interview, Geller further explained that when he is asked how he does his stunts, he tells children to \"Forget the paranormal. Forget spoon bending! Instead of that, focus on school! Become a positive thinker! Believe in yourself and create a target! Go to university! Never smoke! And never touch drugs! And think of success!\"\n\nIn February 2008, Geller stated in the TV show \"The Next Uri Geller\" (a German version of \"The Successor\") that he did not have any supernatural powers, before winking to the camera.\n\nGeller admits, \"Sure, there are magicians who can duplicate [my performances] through trickery.\" He has claimed that even though his spoon bending can be repeated using trickery, he uses psychic powers to achieve his results. James Randi has stated that if Geller is truly using his mind to perform these feats, \"He is doing it the hard way.\"\n\nStage magicians note several methods of creating the illusion of a spoon spontaneously bending. Most common is the practice of misdirection, an underlying principle of many stage magic tricks. There are many ways in which a bent spoon can be presented to an audience as to give the appearance it was manipulated using supernatural powers. One way is through brief moments of distraction in which a magician can physically bend a spoon unseen by the audience, before gradually revealing the bend to create the illusion that the spoon is bending before the viewers' eyes. Another way is to pre-bend the spoon, perhaps by heating it, reducing the amount of force that needed to be applied to bend it manually.\n\nDuring telepathic drawing demonstrations, Geller claimed the ability to read the minds of subjects as they draw a picture. Although in these demonstrations he cannot see the picture being drawn, he is sometimes present in the room, and on these occasions can see the subjects as they draw. Critics argue this may allow Geller to infer common shapes from pencil movement and sound, with the power of suggestion doing the rest.\n\nWatchmakers have noted that \"many supposedly broken watches had merely been stopped by gummy oil, and simply holding them in the hand would warm the oil enough to soften it and allow watches to resume ticking.\"\n\nIn 1978, Yasha Katz, who had been Geller's manager in Britain, said that all performances by Geller were simply stage tricks, and he explained how they were really done.\n\nIn November 2008, Geller accepted an award during a convention of magicians, the \"Services to Promotion of Magic Award\" from the Berglas Foundation. In his acceptance speech, Geller said that if he had not had psychic powers then he \"must be the greatest\" to have been able to fool journalists, scientists and Berglas himself.\nIn October 2012, Geller gave a lecture for magicians in the United States at the Genii Magazine 75th Birthday Bash.\n\nGeller's performances of drawing duplication and cutlery bending usually take place under informal conditions such as television interviews. During his early career, he allowed some scientists to investigate his claims. A study was commissioned by the United States Defense Intelligence Agency as part of the Stargate Project and conducted during August 1973 at Stanford Research Institute (now known as SRI International) by parapsychologists Harold E. Puthoff and Russell Targ. Geller was isolated and asked to reproduce simple drawings prepared in another room. The experimenters concluded that Geller had \"demonstrated his paranormal perceptual ability in a convincing and unambiguous manner\". Writing about the same study in a 1974 article published in the journal \"Nature\", they concluded that he had performed successfully enough to warrant further serious study, coining the term \"Geller effect\" to refer to the particular type of abilities they felt had been demonstrated.\n\nIn \"An Encyclopedia of Claims, Frauds, and Hoaxes of the Occult and Supernatural\", Randi wrote: \"Hal Puthoff and Russell Targ, who studied Mr. Geller at the Stanford Research Institute were aware, in one instance at least, that they were being shown a magician's trick by Geller.\" Moreover, Randi explained, \"their protocols for this 'serious' investigation of the powers claimed by Geller were described by Ray Hyman, who investigated the project on behalf of the Department of Defense's Advanced Research Projects Agency, as 'sloppy and inadequate.'\" Critics have pointed out that both Puthoff and Targ were already believers in paranormal powers and Geller was not adequately searched before the experiments. The psychologist C. E. M. Hansel and skeptic Paul Kurtz have noted that the experiments were poorly designed and open to trickery.\n\nNotable critics of the experiments include psychologists David Marks and Richard Kammann, who published a description of how Geller could have cheated in an informal test of his so-called psychic powers in 1977. Their 1978 article in \"Nature\" and 1980 book \"The Psychology of the Psychic\" (2nd ed. 2000) described how a normal explanation was possible for Geller's alleged psychic powers. Marks and Kammann found evidence that while at SRI, Geller was allowed to peek through a hole in the laboratory wall separating Geller from the drawings he was being invited to reproduce. The drawings he was asked to reproduce were placed on a wall opposite the peep hole which the investigators Targ and Puthoff had stuffed with cotton gauze. In addition to this error, the investigators had also allowed Geller access to a two-way intercom enabling Geller to listen to the investigators' conversation during the times when they were choosing and/or displaying the target drawings. These basic errors indicate the high importance of ensuring that psychologists, magicians or other people with an in-depth knowledge of perception, who are trained in methods for blocking sensory cues, be present during the testing of psychics. Marks, after evaluating the experiments, wrote that none of Geller's paranormal claims had been demonstrated in scientifically controlled conditions, concluding that \"Geller has no psychic ability whatsoever. However, I believe him to be a very clever, well-practiced magician.\"\n\nIn 1973, Geller appeared on \"The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson\", and this appearance is recounted in the \"NOVA\" documentary, \"James Randi – Secrets of the Psychics.\"\n\nIn the documentary, James Randi says that \"Johnny had been a magician himself and was skeptical\" of Geller's claimed paranormal powers, so prior to the date of taping, Randi was asked \"to help prevent any trickery.\" Per Randi's advice, the show prepared their own props without informing Geller, and did not let Geller or his staff \"anywhere near them.\" When Geller joined Carson on stage, he appeared surprised that he was not going to be interviewed, but instead was expected to display his abilities using the provided articles. Geller said \"This scares me.\" and \"As you know, I told your people what to bring.\" and \"I'm surprised because before this program your producer came and he read me at least 40 questions you were going to ask me.\" Geller was unable to display any paranormal abilities, saying \"I don't feel strong\" and he expressed his displeasure at feeling like he was being \"pressed\" to perform by Carson. According to Adam Higginbotham's Nov. 7, 2014 article in the \"New York Times\": \n\nHowever, this appearance on \"The Tonight Show\", which Carson and Randi had orchestrated to debunk Geller's claimed abilities, backfired. According to Higginbotham, \n\nAs part of a mass demonstration, Geller’s photograph appeared on the cover of the magazine \"ESP\" with the caption \"On Sept. 1, 1976 at 11pm E.D.T. THIS COVER CAN BEND YOUR KEYS.\" According to editor Howard Smukler, over 300 positive responses were received, many including bent objects and detailed descriptions of the surrounding circumstances including the bending of the key to the city of Providence, Rhode Island.\n\nTelevision presenter Noel Edmonds often used hidden cameras to record celebrities in \"Candid Camera\"-like situations for his television programme, \"Noel's House Party\". In 1996, Edmonds planned a stunt in which shelves would fall from the walls of a room while Geller was in it. The cameras recorded footage of Geller from angles he was not expecting, and they showed Geller grasping a spoon firmly with both hands as he stood up to display a bend in it.\n\nIn late 2006 and early 2007, Geller starred in \"The Successor\", an Israeli television show to find his \"successor.\" During one segment, a compass was made to move, apparently as a result of Geller's paranormal abilities. However, critics say slow motion footage of the episode showed Geller attaching a magnet to his thumb immediately prior to the compass's movement. Geller denied that this was sleight of hand, and said he welcomed the \"mystical aura\" that the publicity gave him.\n\nGeller performed the same compass trick in 2000 on ABC TV's \"The View\", which was later duplicated by Randi on the same show the following week.\n\nGeller has litigated or threatened legal action against some of his critics with mixed success. These included libel allegations against James Randi and illusionist Gérard Majax.\n\nIn 1971, a mechanical engineering student called Uri Goldstein attended one of Geller's shows, and subsequently sued the show's promoters for breach of contract. He complained that Geller had promised a demonstration of several psychic powers but had delivered only sleight-of-hand and stage tricks. The case came before the civil court in Beersheba. Geller was not present as the summons had been sent to the office of the promoter Miki Peled, who had ignored it as being trivial. Goldstein was awarded 27.5 lira (around $5) for breach of contract. Later, Goldstein admitted that he went to the show specifically with the intention of suing to get his money back, and he had already found a lawyer to represent him prior to attending the performance.\n\nIn a 1989 interview with a Japanese newspaper, James Randi was quoted as saying that Geller had driven a scientist to \"shoot himself in the head\" after finding out that Geller had fooled him. Randi afterwards claimed it was a metaphor lost in translation. The story was also repeated in a Canadian newspaper, which quoted Randi as saying essentially the same thing: \"One scientist, a metallurgist, wrote a paper backing Geller's claims that he could bend metal. The scientist shot himself after I showed him how the key bending trick was done.\" In 1990, Geller sued Randi in a Japanese court over the statements published in the Japanese newspaper. Randi claims that he could not afford to defend himself, therefore he lost the case by default. The court declared Randi's statement an \"insult\" as opposed to libel, and awarded a token judgement against Randi, only \"one-third of one-percent of what he'd demanded\". Since the charge of \"insult\" is only recognized in Chinese and Japanese law, Randi was not required to pay. Later in 1995 Geller agreed not to pursue payment of the Japanese fine. Randi maintains that he has never paid even one dollar or even one cent to Geller.\nIn 1992, Geller filed a $15 million suit against Randi and CSICOP for statements made in an \"International Herald Tribune\" interview on 9 April 1991, but he was unsuccessful because the statute of limitations had expired. In 1994 Geller asked to dismiss without prejudice, and he was ordered to pay $50,000 for the publisher's attorney fees. After not paying in time, Geller was sanctioned with an additional $20,000. Due to the sanction, the suit was dismissed with prejudice, which, according to Randi's attorneys, means that Geller cannot pursue the same suit in any other jurisdiction. In 1995 Geller and Randi announced that this settled \"the last remaining suits\" between him and the CSICOP. As part of the settlement, Geller agreed not to pursue the payment of the 1990 Japanese ruling, in exchange for Prometheus Books inserting an errata on all future editions of \"Physics and Psychics\", correcting erroneous statements made about Geller.\n\nIn 1991, Geller sued Timex Corporation and the advertising firm Fallon McElligott for millions in \"Geller v. Fallon McElligott\" over an ad showing a person bending forks and other items, but failing to stop a Timex watch. Geller was sanctioned $149,000 for filing a frivolous lawsuit.\n\nIn 1998, the Broadcasting Standards Commission (BSC) in the United Kingdom rejected a complaint made by Geller, saying that it \"wasn't unfair to have magicians showing how they duplicate those 'psychic feats'\" on the UK \"Equinox\" episode \"Secrets of the Super Psychics\".\n\nHe also considered a suit against IKEA over a furniture line featuring bent legs that was called the \"Uri\" line.\n\nIn November 2000, Geller sued video game company Nintendo for £60 million over the Pokémon species \"\", localized in English as \"Kadabra\", which he claimed was an unauthorized appropriation of his identity. The Pokémon in question has psychic abilities and carries a bent spoon. Geller also claimed that the star on Kadabra's forehead and the lightning patterns on its abdomen are symbolisms popular with the Waffen SS of Nazi Germany. The katakana for the character's name, ユンゲラー, is visually similar to the transliteration of Geller's own name into Japanese (ユリゲラー). He is quoted as saying: \"Nintendo turned me into an evil, occult Pokémon character. Nintendo stole my identity by using my name and my signature image.\" As of 2008 the situation was still ongoing. Pokémon anime director and storyboard artist Masamitsu Hidaka confirmed in an interview that Kadabra would not be used on a Pokémon Trading Card until an agreement was reached on the case. As of 2018, the agreement has not been reached and the last Kadabra card released was in the Skyridge e-Reader set (2002/2003).\n\nIn 2007, Geller issued a DMCA notice to YouTube to remove a video uploaded by Brian Sapient of the \"Rational Response Squad\" which was excerpted from an episode of the \"Nova\" television program titled \"\"Secrets of the Psychics\".\" The video included footage of Geller failing to perform. In response, Sapient contacted the Electronic Frontier Foundation, issued a DMCA counter-notice, and sued Geller for misuse of the DMCA. Geller's company, Explorologist, filed a counter-suit. Both cases were settled out of court; a monetary settlement was paid (but it is not clear by and to whom) and the eight seconds of footage owned by Explorologist were licensed under a noncommercial Creative Commons license.\n\nOn 11 February 2009, Geller purchased the uninhabited 100-meter-by-50-meter Lamb Island off the eastern coast of Scotland, previously known for its witch trials, and beaches that Robert Louis Stevenson is said to have described in his novel \"Treasure Island\". Geller claims that buried on the island is Egyptian treasure, brought there by Scota, the mythological half-sister of Tutankhamen in Irish mythology, 3,500 years ago. He claimed that he will find the treasure through dowsing, despite dowsing being considered a pseudoscience. Geller also claimed to have strengthened the mystical powers of the island by burying there a crystal orb once belonging to Albert Einstein.\n\nIn 2014, a 12 foot tall statue of a gorilla made from approximately 40,000 metal spoons was unveiled in Geller's Berkshire garden by the Duke of Kent, with the intention of possibly relocating it to Great Ormond Street Hospital. The statue was welded by sculptor Alfie Bradley, and funded by the British Ironworks Centre of Oswestry. According to Bradley, many of the spoons were donated by schoolchildren from around the world. Speaking at the unveiling, Geller said \"This will not raise money for charity. It will do something better. It will amaze sick children.\"\n\nIn 2013, a BBC documentary, \"The Secret Life of Uri Geller – Psychic Spy?\" featured Uri Geller, Benjamin Netanyahu, Christopher 'Kit' Green, Paul H. Smith, Harold Puthoff and Russell Targ. The documentary claimed Geller became a \"psychic spy\" for the CIA, was recruited by Mossad, and worked as an \"official secret agent\" in Mexico, being a frequent guest of President José López Portillo. In the film, Geller claims to have erased floppy discs carried by KGB agents by repeatedly chanting the word \"erase\".\n\nGeller has lived in Jaffa in Israel since 2015. He previously lived in the village of Sonning-on-Thames, Berkshire, in the United Kingdom. He is trilingual, speaking fluent Hebrew, Hungarian and English. In an appearance on Esther Rantzen's 1996 television talk show \"Esther\", Geller declared that he had suffered from anorexia nervosa and bulimia for several years. He has written 16 fiction and non fiction books.\n\nHis friend Michael Jackson was best man when Geller renewed his wedding vows in 2001. Geller also negotiated the TV interview between Jackson with the journalist Martin Bashir, \"Living with Michael Jackson\".\n\nGeller is president of International Friends of Magen David Adom, a group that lobbied the International Committee of the Red Cross to recognise Magen David Adom (\"Red Star of David\") as a humanitarian relief organisation.\n\nIn 1997 he tried to help the Second Division football club Exeter City win a crucial end of season game by placing \"energy-infused\" crystals behind the goals at Exeter's ground (Exeter lost the game 5–1); he was appointed co-chairman of the club in 2002. The club was relegated to the Football Conference in May 2003, where it remained for five years. He has since severed formal ties with the club. He had also been involved with Reading F.C. and claimed in 2002 that he had helped them to avoid relegation by getting the club's supporters to look into his eyes and say \"win, Reading, win\". Reading manager Alan Pardew dismissed Geller's role in the club's survival - which was achieved thanks to a draw in the crucial match rather than a Reading victory - stating \"as soon as we get a bit of joy, thanks to all the hard work and efforts of my staff and players, he suddenly comes out of the blue and tries to claim the limelight.\"\n\nFollowing the death of Michael Jackson, the British television station ITV announced plans to screen an interview with Geller regarding his relationship with Jackson, entitled \"My Friend Michael Jackson: Uri's Story\".\n\n\n\n\n\nMedia\n\nArchival Materials\n"}
{"id": "28093269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28093269", "title": "Urvashi Dholakia", "text": "Urvashi Dholakia\n\nUrvashi Dholakia is an Indian television actress. She is best known for her role as Komolika Basu in \"Kasautii Zindagii Kay\" and also known for participating the television reality show \"Bigg Boss 6\", where she was the winner in early 2013. She portrayed the evil character of Queen Iravati in the fantasy television series \"Chandrakanta\" on Colors TV.\"\n\nDholakia was born to a Punjabi mother and a Gujarati father. She married at age 16 and had twin boys, Kshitij and Sagar, at age 17; she has raised them as a single mother since she was 18.\n\nDholakia made her acting debut at age six in a television commercial for Lux soap with actress Revathi. Her first TV series role was in (Doordarshan) \"Dekh Bhai Dekh \" as Shilpa. Later she appeared in \"Waqt Ki Raftar\". She also appeared in the shows \"Ghar Ek Mandir\", \"Kabhii Sautan Kabhii Sahelii\", \"Kasautii Zindagii Kay\" and \"Kahiin To Hoga\". Dholakia gained popularity by playing the role of Komolika Basu in \"Kasautii Zindagii Kay\". In 2012, she participated in Colors TV's \"Bigg Boss 6\" and on 12 January 2013, she emerged as the winner of the season. As of 2017, she is featured in Colors TV's historical fantasy series \"Chandrakanta\" as Queen Iravati.\n\n"}
{"id": "2115859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2115859", "title": "Valide sultan", "text": "Valide sultan\n\nValide sultan (, lit. \"mother sultan\") was the title held by the \"legal mother\" of a ruling Sultan of the Ottoman Empire. The title was first used in the 16th century for Hafsa Sultan, consort of Selim I and mother of Suleiman the Magnificent, superseding the previous title of \"mehd-i ulya\" (\"cradle of the great\"). Normally, this title was held by the living mother of a reigning sultan. The mothers who died before their sons' accession to the throne were never bestowed with the title of Valide Sultan. In special cases, there were grandmothers and stepmothers of a reigning sultan who assumed the title Valide Sultan.\n\nThe word \"valide\" (والده) literally means \"mother\" in Ottoman Turkish, from Arabic. The Turkish pronunciation of the word \"valide\" is .\n\nSultan (سلطان) is an Arabic word originally meaning \"authority\" or \"dominion\". By the beginning of the 16th century, this title, carried by both men and women of the Ottoman dynasty, was replacing other titles by which prominent members of the imperial family had been known (notably \"hatun\" for women and \"bey\" for men). Consequently, the title \"valide hatun\" (title for living mother of reigning Ottoman sultan before 16th century) also turned into \"valide sultan\". This usage underlines the Ottoman conception of sovereign power as family prerogative.\n\nWestern tradition knows the Ottoman ruler as \"sultan\", but the Ottomans themselves used \"padişah\" (emperor) or \"hünkar\" to refer to their ruler. The emperor’s formal title consisted of \"sultan\" together with \"khan\" (for example, Sultan Suleiman Khan). In formal address, the sultan’s children were also entitled \"sultan\", with imperial princes (şehzade) carrying the title before their given name, with imperial princesses carrying it after. Example, Şehzade Sultan Mehmed and Mihrimah Sultan, son and daughter of Suleiman the Magnificent. Like imperial princesses, the living mother and main consort of reigning sultans also carried the title after their given names, for example, Hafsa Sultan, Suleiman’s mother and first valide sultan, and Hürrem Sultan, Suleiman’s chief consort and first haseki sultan. The evolving usage of this title reflected power shifts among imperial women, especially between Sultanate of Women, as the position of main consort eroded over the course of 17th century, the main consort lost the title \"sultan\", which replaced by \"kadin\", a title related to the earlier \"khatun\". Henceforth, the mother of the reigning sultan was the only person of non imperial blood to carry the title \"sultan\".\n\nTitle \"valide\" carried before or after given name. According to a genealogical website, the formal way of addressing a \"valide\" is \"Devletlû İsmetlu\" (given name) \"Vâlide Sultân Aliyyetü'ş-Şân Hazretleri\". Many westerner often translated their official title, \"sultan\", to title which not exist in Ottoman royalti officially, \"sultana\", possibly for distinguished them from Ottoman ruler and other male member of Ottoman dynasty.\n\nValide sultan was perhaps the most important position in the Ottoman Empire after the sultan himself. As the mother to the sultan, by Islamic tradition (\"A mother's right is God's right\"), the valide sultan would have a significant influence on the affairs of the empire. She had great power in the court and her own rooms (always adjacent to her son's) and state staff. Valide sultan also traditionally had access to considerable economic resources and often funded major architectural projects. In particular during the 17th century, in a period known as the \"Sultanate of Women\", a series of incompetent or child sultans raised the role of the valide sultan to new heights.\n\nThe most powerful and well-known of all valide sultans in the history of the Ottoman Empire were Nurbanu Sultan, Safiye Sultan, Kösem Sultan and Turhan Hatice Sultan.\n\nMost harem women who were slaves were never formally married to the sultans. Nevertheless, their children were considered fully legitimate under Islamic law if recognized by the father. However , only very few harem women who became Valide Sultans upon their son's ascension to the throne were indeed freed from slavery and married to their spouses , the former Ottoman Sultans. These Sultanas were Nurbanu Sultan , Kösem Sultan and Rabia Gülnuş Sultan.\n\nThe list does not include the complete list of mothers of the Ottoman sultans. Most who held the title of valide sultan were the biological mothers of the reigning sultans. The mothers who died before their sons' accession to throne, never assumed the title of \"valide sultan\", like Hürrem Sultan, Muazzez Sultan, Mihrişah Kadın, Şermi Kadın, Tirimüjgan Kadın, Gülcemal Kadın, and Gülüstü Hanım. In special cases, there were grandmothers and stepmothers of the reigning sultans who assumed the title of \"valide sultan\", like Kösem Sultan and Perestu Kadın.\nNormally, living mother of reigning sultan held title Valide Sultan. But in exceptional cases, there were women who didn't hold this title when their sons became Sultan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27683852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27683852", "title": "William Wellington Greener", "text": "William Wellington Greener\n\nWilliam Wellington Greener (1834—1921) was an innovative English gunsmith, the founder of the W. W. Greener company. He was also an author of books on guns, many of which went through multiple editions, most notably \"The Gun and Its Development\" (first published 1881; 9th edition 1910; subsequently reprinted 1972, 1989, 2002).\n\nHe was the son of the gunsmith William Greener (1806-1869).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15801890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15801890", "title": "Zalman Aran", "text": "Zalman Aran\n\nZalman Aran (, 1 March 1899 – 6 September 1970) was a Zionist activist, educator and Israeli politician.\n\nAran was born Zalman Aharonowitz in 1899 in Yuzovka in the Yekaterinoslav Governorate of the Russian Empire (now Donetsk, Ukraine), and received a religious education in a heder. He later studied agriculture in Kharkov. In his youth, he was active in Tze'irei Zion, and in 1917 became a member of the \"Self-Defense Organization Committee\" of the movement. He worked as a teacher and a statistician from 1918 to 1923. In 1920, after the party split, he joined the Zionist Socialists and was a member of its secret Central Committee from 1924 to 1925.\n\nIn 1926, he immigrated to Mandate Palestine, where he joined the Ahdut HaAvoda Party. He worked in building and road construction. In 1930, after Ahdut HaAvoda merged into Mapai, he was appointed the new party's General Secretary in Tel Aviv. From 1936 to 1947 he worked in the Histadrut Executive Committee as Treasurer and Director of the Information Department, and was one of the founders of the School for Histadrut Activists. He also became a member of the Zionist Executive Committee in 1946 and a member of its Presidium in 1948.\n\nIn 1949 he was elected to the Knesset, and was re-elected in 1951, 1955, 1959, 1961 and 1965. He chaired of Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, and was also a member of the House Committee. In 1953 he was appointed Minister without Portfolio and, in 1954, Minister of Transportation. From 1955 to 1960 and again from 1963 to 1969, he was Minister of Education and Culture.\n\nAs Israel's Minister of Education, he introduced \"Jewish Identity\" and Jewish tradition into the curriculum and promoted the expansion of technical education. In 1955, the Knesset accepted his reform program for the Israeli education system and his demands for a secondary education diploma, as well as extension of Israel's compulsory education Law to the ages of 14 to 16. He also promoted the integration of children from different backgrounds into the same schools to accelerate Israel's melting-pot ideal and cut down socio-economic gaps in the Israeli society, including recreational activities for development town residents.\n\nAs a government minister in 1967, he initially supported the majority position which sought a diplomatic solution to Egypt's closure of the Straits of Tiran, rather than a pre-emptive strike, which he also felt posed a great risk to the home front and the Israeli Air Force. He also opposed the occupation of East Jerusalem.\n\nHe died in 1970. The Tel Aviv University School of History and the central library of the Ben-Gurion University of the Negev were named after him, as were several schools in Israel.\n\n"}
