{"id": "2249769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2249769", "title": "AXA Equitable Center", "text": "AXA Equitable Center\n\nThe AXA Equitable Center (originally The Equitable Tower or Equitable Center West) is an American 752-foot (229.3 m)-tall skyscraper, located at 787 Seventh Avenue between 51st and 52nd Streets in Manhattan, New York City.\n\nIt was built in 1985 in the postmodern style by architect Edward Larrabee Barnes. It houses the headquarters for AXA Financial, which consists of a number of subsidiaries of French-based insurance and banking company AXA, such as AXA Equitable Life Insurance and Mutual of New York. Other cornerstone tenants include BNP Paribas, Stifel, New Mountain Capital, Sidley Austin LLP, Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, UBS, and Citigroup.\n\nThe structure is mainly composed of steel. The facade is of brown granite in a gridiron pattern with a white background. The tower rises through two setbacks on the north and south sides, indicated by recessed bays on the facade. The plain top has vertical striping, and the east and west sides end in arched windows. The Equitable boardroom is located at the ends. The building has 54 floors and 142,660m², with a majority of offices.\n\nOn February 9, 2016, CALPERS announced that it has purchased the AXA Equitable Center for $1.9 billion.\n\nThe skylighted entrance atrium features a large (22.3 x 10.8 meters) mural by Roy Lichtenstein called \"Mural with Blue Brushstroke\", which he completed in 1986. The Atrium at 787 Seventh Avenue is used for after-business and weekend events.\n\nAXA Center is connected to the extensive Rockefeller Center underground concourse. Pedestrian traffic moves through this tower (via an arched galleria at 7th Avenue), across the open mall (between West 51st and 52nd Streets), and into the eastern Equitable Tower.\n\nThe AXA complex includes the AXA Equitable auditorium, with 487 seats, and the AXA Equitable Production Group studio. The auditorium is a versatile meeting and event space. It is often used for events including product launches, corporate meetings, live television premiers and broadcasts, award ceremonies. It has full theater capabilities. The auditorium, along with the AXA Equitable Production Group's full production studio, services many corporate clients in the New York City area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6432863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6432863", "title": "Adrien Philippe", "text": "Adrien Philippe\n\nJean Adrien Philippe (16 April 1815, La Bazoche-Gouet, Eure-et-Loir – 5 January 1894) was a French horologist and cofounder of watchmaker Patek Philippe & Co. of Geneva, Switzerland. \n\nIn 1842 Adrien Philippe invented a mechanism for watches which allowed them to be wound and set by means of a crown rather than a key. His patented invention earned him a Gold Medal at the French Industrial Exposition of 1844 (World's Fair). At the Exhibition, Adrien Philippe first met Antoni Patek and a year later became head watchmaker at Patek & Co. in Geneva under an agreement that entitled him to one third of all company profits.\n\nAdrien Philippe proved to be very capable at his craft and a product innovator whose value to the firm was such that by 1851 he was made a full partner and the firm began operating as Patek Philippe & Co. In 1863 he published a book in Geneva and Paris on the workings of pocket watches titled \"Les montres sans clef\".\n\nHis partner Antoni Patek died in 1877 and in 1891 the 76-year-old Adrien Philippe handed over the day-to-day management of the business to his son Joseph Emile Philippe and Francois Antoine Conty. \nJean Adrien Philippe died in 1894 and was buried in St-Georges Cemetery in Geneva.\n\n"}
{"id": "23096495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23096495", "title": "Air separation", "text": "Air separation\n\nAn air separation plant separates atmospheric air into its primary components, typically nitrogen and oxygen, and sometimes also argon and other rare inert gases.\n\nThe most common method for air separation is fractional distillation. Cryogenic air separation units (ASUs) are built to provide nitrogen or oxygen and often co-produce argon. Other methods such as membrane, pressure swing adsorption (PSA) and vacuum pressure swing adsorption (VPSA) are commercially used to separate a single component from ordinary air. High purity oxygen, nitrogen, and argon used for semiconductor device fabrication requires cryogenic distillation. Similarly, the only viable source of the rare gases neon, krypton, and xenon is the distillation of air using at least two distillation columns.\n\nPure gases can be separated from air by first cooling it until it liquefies, then selectively distilling the components at their various boiling temperatures. The process can produce high purity gases but is energy-intensive. This process was pioneered by Carl von Linde in the early 20th century and is still used today to produce high purity gases.\n\nThe cryogenic separation process requires a very tight integration of heat exchangers and separation columns to obtain a good efficiency and all the energy for refrigeration is provided by the compression of the air at the inlet of the unit.\n\nTo achieve the low distillation temperatures an air separation unit requires a refrigeration cycle that operates by means of the Joule–Thomson effect, and the cold equipment has to be kept within an insulated enclosure (commonly called a \"cold box\"). The cooling of the gases requires a large amount of energy to make this refrigeration cycle work and is delivered by an air compressor. Modern ASUs use expansion turbines for cooling; the output of the expander helps drive the air compressor, for improved efficiency.\nThe process consists of the following main steps:\n\n\nThe separated products are sometimes supplied by pipeline to large industrial users near the production plant. Long distance transportation of products is by shipping liquid product for large quantities or as dewar flasks or gas cylinders for small quantities.\n\nPressure swing adsorption provides separation of oxygen or nitrogen from air without liquefaction. The process operates around ambient temperature; a zeolite (molecular sponge) is exposed to high pressure air, then the air is released and an adsorbed film of the desired gas is released. The size of compressor is much reduced over a liquefaction plant, and portable oxygen concentrators are made in this manner to provide oxygen-enriched air for medical purposes. Vacuum swing adsorption is a similar process; the product gas is evolved from the zeolite at sub-atmospheric pressure.\nMembrane technologies can provide alternate, lower-energy approaches to air separation. For example, a number of approaches are being explored for oxygen generation. Polymeric membranes operating at ambient or warm temperatures, for example, may be able to produce oxygen-enriched air (25-50% oxygen). Ceramic membranes can provide high-purity oxygen (90% or more) but require higher temperatures (800-900 deg C) to operate. These ceramic membranes include Ion Transport Membranes (ITM) and Oxygen Transport Membranes (OTM). Air Products and Chemicals Inc and Praxair are developing flat ITM and tubular OTM systems, .\n\nMembrane gas separation is used to provide oxygen poor and nitrogen rich gases instead of air to fill the fuel tanks of jet liners, thus greatly reducing the chances of accidental fires and explosions. Conversely, membrane gas separation is currently used to provide oxygen enriched air to pilots flying at great altitudes in aircraft without pressurized cabins.\n\nOxygen-enriched air can be obtained exploiting the different solubility of oxygen and nitrogen. Oxygen is more soluble than nitrogen in water, so if air is degassed from water, a stream of 35% oxygen can be obtained.\n\nIn steelmaking oxygen is required for the basic oxygen steelmaking. Today, modern basic oxygen steelmaking uses almost two tons of oxygen per ton of steel.\n\nNitrogen used in the Haber process to make ammonia.\n\nLarge amounts of oxygen are required for coal gasification projects; cryogenic plants producing 3000 tons/day are found in some projects.\n\nInerting storage tanks of ships and tanks for petroleum products, or for protecting edible oil products from oxidation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54587721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54587721", "title": "Albert Johan Petersson", "text": "Albert Johan Petersson\n\nAlbert Johan Petersson (6 February 1870-18/19 August 1914) was a Swedish chemist, engineer and industrialist. He is most known as the developer of the \"Alby-furnace\" for producing of Calcium carbide and as the first director of the carbide and cyanamide factories in Odda in Norway. He was born in Landskrona, Sweden and probably died during a boat trip between Odda and Bergen.\n\nAlbert Petersson was married to the German born Leonie Witt, daughter of professor (1853–1915) in Berlin. Together they had two children, both born in Odda. Claus was born in 1907. On 18 August 1914 Petersson went aboard the fjord steamer D/S \"Ullensvang\" in Odda. The next morning the boat arrived in Bergen and he had disappeared. The cause of his disappearance remains unknown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56670740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56670740", "title": "Andrew Galbraith", "text": "Andrew Galbraith\n\nAndrew Galbraith (1799–1885) was a 19th-century Scottish businessman who served as Lord Provost of Glasgow from 1857 to 1860.\n\nHe was born in Campbeltown on 6 February 1799.\n\nTogether with his younger brother Archibald Galbraith they ran A & A Galbraith, cotton spinners in Glasgow. The business had offices at 4 Bothwell Street and factories on Garngad Road. Later he also had mills at Oakbank near Glasgow. His mills employed 1200 persons.\n\nHe joined Glasgow town council in the 1840s and served as Dean of Guild from 1848 to 1850. He was elected Lord Provost of Glasgow in 1857. At this time he lived at 153 St Georges Road in Glasgow.\n\nHe retired to Johnstone Castle in Renfrewshire.\n\nHe died at the castle on 29 November 1885 and was buried with his wife and daughters in the Glasgow Necropolis.\n\nHe was married to Margaret Bogle Scott (1807-1850) from Port Glasgow.\n\nHe was portrayed in old age by Norman Macbeth.\n"}
{"id": "1762176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1762176", "title": "Applicant tracking system", "text": "Applicant tracking system\n\nAn applicant tracking system (ATS) is a software application that enables the electronic handling of recruitment needs. An ATS can be implemented or accessed online on an enterprise or small business level, depending on the needs of the company and there is also free and open source ATS software available. An ATS is very similar to customer relationship management (CRM) systems, but are designed for recruitment tracking purposes. In many cases they filter applications automatically based on given criteria such as keywords, skills, former employers, years of experience and schools attended. This has caused many to adapt resume optimization techniques similar to those used in search engine optimization when creating and formatting their résumé.\n\nA dedicated ATS is not uncommon for recruitment specific needs. On the enterprise level it may be offered as a module or functional addition to a human resources suite or Human Resource Information System (HRIS). The ATS is expanding into small and medium enterprises through open source or software as a service offerings (SaaS).\n\nThe principal function of an ATS is to provide a central location and database for a company's recruitment efforts. ATSs are built to better assist management of resumes and applicant information. Data is either collected from internal applications via the ATS front-end, located on the company website or is extracted from applicants on job boards. The majority of job and resume boards (LinkedIn.com, Monster.com, Hotjobs, CareerBuilder, Indeed.com) have partnerships with ATS software providers to provide parsing support and ease of data migration from one system to another. Newer applicant tracking systems (often referred to as next generation) are platforms as a service whereby the main piece of software has integration points that allow providers of other recruiting technology to plug in seamlessly. The ability of these next generation ATS solutions allows jobs to be posted where the candidate is and not just on job boards. This ability is being referred to as Omnichannel Talent Acquisition.\n\nRecent enhancements include use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools and natural language processing to facilitate intelligent guided semantic search capabilities offered through cloud based platforms that allow companies to score and sort resumes with better alignment to the job requirements and descriptions.\n\nWith the advent of ATS, resume optimization techniques and online tools are now used by applicants to increase their chances of landing an interview call.\n\nFunctionality of an ATS is not limited to data mining and collection; ATS applications in the recruitment industry include the ability to automate the recruitment process via a defined workflow.\n\nAnother benefit of an applicant tracking system is analyzing and coordinating recruitment efforts - managing the conceptual structure known as human capital. A corporate career site or company specific job board module may be offered, allowing companies to provide opportunities to internal candidates prior to external recruitment efforts. Candidates may be identified via pre-existing data or through information garnered through other means. This data is typically stored for search and retrieval processes. Some systems have expanded offerings that include off-site encrypted resume and data storage, which are often legally required by equal opportunity employment laws.\n\nApplicant tracking systems may also be referred to as talent acquisition and management products (TAMP) and are often provided via an application service provider or software as a service (SaaS) model. The level of service and cost can vary greatly across providers. In the UK and Ireland, Applicant Tracking Systems which are specifically for Agency Recruiters are often referred to as Recruitment Software and this is a term used mainly in the recruitment agency industry (representative bodies include the REC in the UK and the NRF in Ireland). Although proprietary systems dominate the ATS space, there are open-source alternatives.\n\nAs the data held within recruitment software is predominantly personal data, it is often tightly controlled by data protection legislation, preventing the data from being held offshore, which frequently places a legal restriction on the use of SaaS offerings.\n"}
{"id": "503480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503480", "title": "Armistead Thomson Mason", "text": "Armistead Thomson Mason\n\nArmistead Thomson Mason (August 4, 1787February 6, 1819), the son of Stevens Thomson Mason, was a U.S. Senator from Virginia from 1816 to 1817. Mason was also the second-youngest person to ever serve in the US Senate at the age of 28 and 5 months even though the age of requirement for the US Senate in the constitution is 30 years old.\n\nHe was born at Armisteads in Louisa County, Virginia, graduated from the College of William and Mary in 1807 and engaged in agricultural pursuits until he became colonel of Virginia Volunteers in the War of 1812 and subsequently brigadier general of Virginia Militia.\n\nHe was elected as a Republican to the United States Senate to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of William Branch Giles, despite being constitutionally underage for the office. Mason served from January 3, 1816, to March 4, 1817. He then moved to Loudoun County, Virginia where he was an unsuccessful candidate for election to the Fifteenth Congress (1817). It was a bitter campaign that gave rise to several duels: Mason himself was later killed in a duel with his second cousin, John Mason McCarty, at Bladensburg Duelling Field, Maryland, as a result of this campaign. He is buried in the churchyard of the Episcopal Church at Leesburg, Virginia.\n\nMason married on 1 May 1817 to Charlotte Eliza Taylor (died 1846) at Dr. Charles Cocke's in Albemarle County, Virginia. The couple had one son:\n\n\nArmistead Thomson Mason was the grandnephew of George Mason (1725–1792); grandson of Thomson Mason (1733–1785); son of Mary Elizabeth \"Polly\" Armistead Mason (1760–1825) and Stevens Thomson Mason (1760–1803); nephew of John Thomson Mason (1765–1824); second cousin of Thomson Francis Mason (1785–1838) and James Murray Mason (1798–1871); brother-in-law of William Taylor Barry (1784–1835); brother of John Thomson Mason (1787–1850); uncle of Stevens Thomson Mason (1811–1843); and first cousin of John Thomson Mason, Jr. (1815–1873).\n\n"}
{"id": "5458411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5458411", "title": "Australian Accounting Standards Board", "text": "Australian Accounting Standards Board\n\nThe Australian Accounting Standards Board (AASB) is an Australian Government agency that develops and maintains financial reporting standards applicable to entities in the private and public sectors of the Australian economy. Also, the AASB contributes to the development of global financial reporting standards and facilitates the participation of the Australian community in global standard setting. The AASB's functions and powers are set out in the \"Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001\".\n\nThe Australian Securities and Investments Commission’s (ASIC's) role is to enforce and regulate company and financial services laws to protect Australian consumers, investors and creditors. The AASB uses a conceptual framework to develop and evaluate accounting standards.\n\nThe AASB makes Australian Accounting Standards, including Interpretations, to be applied by:\n(a) entities required by the \"Corporations Act 2001\" to prepare financial reports;\n(b) governments in preparing financial statements for the whole of government and the General Government Sector (GGS); and\n(c) entities in the private or public for-profit or not-for-profit sectors that are reporting entities or that prepare general purpose financial statements.\n\nAASB 1053 \"Application of Tiers of Australian Accounting Standards\" establishes a differential reporting framework consisting of two tiers of reporting requirements for preparing general purpose financial statements:\n(a) Tier 1: Australian Accounting Standards; and\n(b) Tier 2: Australian Accounting Standards – Reduced Disclosure Requirements.\n\nTier 1 requirements incorporate International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), including Interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), with the addition of paragraphs on the applicability of each Standard in the Australian environment.\n\nPublicly accountable (defined in AASB 1053) for-profit private sector entities are required to adopt Tier 1 requirements, and therefore are required to comply with IFRSs. Furthermore, other for-profit private sector entities complying with Tier 1 requirements will simultaneously comply with IFRSs. Some other entities complying with Tier 1 requirements will also simultaneously comply with IFRSs.\n\nTier 2 requirements comprise the recognition, measurement and presentation requirements of Tier 1 but substantially reduced disclosure requirements in comparison with Tier 1.\n\nAustralian Accounting Standards also include requirements that are specific to Australian entities. These requirements may be located in Australian Accounting Standards that incorporate IFRSs or in other Australian Accounting Standards. In most instances, these requirements are either restricted to the not-for-profit or public sectors or include additional disclosures that address domestic, regulatory or other issues. These requirements do not prevent publicly accountable for-profit private sector entities from complying with IFRSs. In developing requirements for public sector entities, the AASB considers the requirements of International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSASs), as issued by the International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (IPSASB) of the International Federation of Accountants.\n\nThe original series of Australian Accounting Standards (AASs), which was applicable to entities not regulated under the Corporations Law, was issued by the former AASB and the Public Sector Accounting Standards Board (PSASB) of the Australian Accounting Research Foundation (AARF) on behalf of the professional accounting bodies, prior to 2000. The original series of AASB Standards (AASBs), which was applicable to entities regulated under the Corporations Law, was also issued by the former AASB, prior to 2000. Most AASs were superseded by AASBs for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005 – as at 1 July 2011, only AAS 25 \"Financial Reporting by Superannuation Plans\" was still operative. All standards now issued by the AASB are labelled AASB Accounting Standards – their application paragraphs specify the types of entities to which they apply. \n\nUnder the Australian \"Corporations Act 2001\", many entities are required to apply Australian Accounting Standards when preparing their financial statements. Some public sector entities are required to apply Australian Accounting Standards under either Commonwealth, state or territory legislation, through specific instructions to preparers or reporting frameworks that set out guidelines or regulations.\n\nMembers of CPA Australia, the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia and the Institute of Public Accountants have a professional obligation to take all reasonable steps within their power to ensure that entities with which they are involved comply with Australian Accounting Standards when preparing their general purpose financial statements.\n\nSince 2002, the AASB implemented the broad strategic direction from the Australian Financial Reporting Council (FRC) to adopt International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) standards for financial reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005. In July 2004, the AASB issued a number of standards that apply from 2005, including:\n\n\nThe Australian Accounting Standards that incorporate IASB Standards include:\n\nFor reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, the Australian Accounting Standards that incorporate IASB Standards supersede their previous Australian counterparts, if any.\n\nThe other AASB Standards supplementing the Australian Accounting Standards that incorporate IASB Standards comprise:\n\nCurrent Australian Accounting Standards for which there are no corresponding IASB Standards remain in force beyond 1 January 2005, even though they may be reissued in the future to update them in this new regime. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47075029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47075029", "title": "Australian insolvency law", "text": "Australian insolvency law\n\nAustralian insolvency law regulates the position of companies which are in financial distress and are unable to pay or provide for all of their debts or other obligations, and matters ancillary to and arising from financial distress. The law in this area is principally governed by the Corporations Act 2001. Under Australian law, the term insolvency is usually used with reference to companies, and bankruptcy is used in relation to individuals. Insolvency law in Australia tries to seek an equitable balance between the competing interests of debtors, creditors and the wider community when debtors are unable to meet their financial obligations. The aim of the legislative provisions is to provide:\n\nA company, partnership, or trust with multiple trustees, is legally insolvent if it is not able to pay its their debts, as and when they become due and payable. Solvency and insolvency are defined so as to be mutually exclusive.\n\nThe common law has also established various indicators of insolvency. These indicators include amongst others:\n\nIn certain circumstances a debtor may be presumed to be insolvent without the need to actually prove financial insolvency. A company will be presumed to be insolvent if, during or after the three months preceding the day on which an application was made for the winding-up of the company, any one of the following six situations occurs.\n\nA popular way for a creditor to prove that a company is insolvent is to serve a statutory demand pursuant to section 459E of the Corporations Act. Issuing and serving a statutory demand is a relatively simple and inexpensive process when compared against proving actual financial insolvency. Statutory demands are regulated by Part 5.4, Divisions 2 and 3 of the Corporations Act, and the Courts require that the regime be strictly adhered to. Because a company will irrebuttably be presumed to insolvent where a statutory demand is not complied with, the Court requires creditors to ensure that demands are expressed in clear, accurate and unambiguous terms. Even a small error may result in the statutory demand being set aside by the Court. The statute specifies the form of the demand, and requires that the demand must:\n\nIn relation to the debt to which the demand relates:\nThe demand must be served on the company by leaving it at its registered office, sending it by post to that office, or delivering a copy of the demand personally to the director of the company.\n\nUpon being served with a valid demand, the debtor may either pay the debt, or secure or compound the debt to the creditor's reasonable satisfaction. Failure to do so within 21 days (unless an extension is granted) will mean that insolvency of the debtor is presumed and the creditor may use that presumption in order to make a winding-up application to the Court.\n\nA debtor company can also apply to set aside a statutory demand on various grounds. These include:\n\nVarious cases in Australia have decided what a genuine dispute is, and is not. A genuine dispute should:\n\n\nA genuine dispute should not:\n\n\nYou may also set aside a statutory demand if you have an offsetting claim.\n\nSection 459H(1)(b) of the \"Corporations Act 2001\" (Cth) says:\n\n\"(1) This section applies where, on an application under section 459G, the Court is satisfied…\"\n\n\"(b) that the company has an offsetting claim.\"\n\nThen goes on to define an offsetting claim to mean:\n\n\"“offsetting claim” means a genuine claim that the company has against the respondent by way of counterclaim, set-off or cross-demand (even if it does not arise out of the same transaction or circumstances as a debt to which the demand relates).\"\n\nThis means that any claim that you have against the person/company issuing the demand, can be used to set aside the demand.  Especially if the offsetting claim means that the offset total of the demand drops below the statutory minimum.\n\nA statutory demand can also be set aside pursuant to section 459J(1)(a) if \"because of a defect in the demand, substantial injustice will be caused unless the demand is set aside.\"\n\nSection 9 of the \"Corporations Act\" defines the word “defect” to mean:\n\n\"“defect“, in relation to a statutory demand, includes:\"\n\n\"(a)  an irregularity; and\"\n\n\"(b)  a misstatement of an amount or total; and\"\n\n\"(c)  a misdescription of a debt or other matter; and\"\n\n\"(d)  a misdescription of a person or entity.\"\n\nHowever, a simple defect is not enough to allow the demand to be set aside, it must cause substantial injustice.\n\nThere are a number of cases in Australia which have decided what a defect in a demand which will cause substantial injustice is. Some examples of this are:\n\n\nThere are also cases in Australia which have decided that certain defects in the demand do not cause substantial injustice. Some examples are:\n\n\nIf a company fails to satisfy a statutory demand, or have it set aside, then it is presumed to be insolvent. The company requires leave of the court to before it can challenge the debt in opposing an application to wind up the company. The effect of the presumption is that the company has to prove that it is solvent.\n\nOn the 19th October 2017 The Australian Federal Parliament proposed a bill is to reduce the period of bankruptcy from three years to one year. According to this bill, after one year, a person will not be required to disclose his status as bankrupt .\nFurthermore, it states that after one year, a bankrupt would be able to travel without prior permission.\n\nLiquidation is the process whereby the assets of a company are collected and realised by a liquidator, and the proceeds are subsequently applied to discharge all relevant debts and liabilities in accordance with the priorities set by law. Any balance which may remain after paying the costs and expenses of winding-up is then distributed among the members according to their respective rights and interests.\n\nA company may be wound up on either a voluntary basis or on a compulsory basis.\n\nThere are three different types of winding-up:\n\nA members' voluntary winding-up is not technically an insolvency process. It is a voluntary liquidation entered into by the members where the company is not insolvent. The process is initiated by a special resolution of the company, and the creditors have no direct involvement and are repaid in full. The directors are required to give a declaration as to the solvency of the company which must be filed with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC).\n\nWhere a liquidator who is appointed pursuant to a members' voluntary winding-up subsequently determines that the company is in fact insolvent in his opinion (contrary to the solvency declaration made by the board of directors), then the liquidator must either (a) apply to the Court for the company to be wound-up on an insolvent basis, (b) appoint an administrator to the company, or (c) convene a meeting of creditors. If a meeting of the creditors is convened, then from the time of the meeting the winding-up will be treated as a creditors' voluntary winding-up.\n\nA creditors' voluntary winding-up is also initiated by the members but (in contrast to a members' voluntary winding-up) where it has been determined that the company is insolvent. The process normally occurs where the board of directors has determined that the company is insolvent and then recommended to the members that it be wound up. However, as noted above, it may also be initiated by a liquidator was originally appointed pursuant to members voluntary winding-up where the liquidator has subsequently formed the opinion that the company is actually insolvent.\n\nA compulsory liquidation is usually the result of an action taken by one or more creditors of an insolvent company. Compulsory liquidation is a statutory procedure which enables a person to apply to the Court for an order that the affairs of a company be wound-up. A number of different people have \"locus standi\" to initiate compulsory liquidation proceedings, including not only the company's creditors (who are the most common applicants), but also the company itself, the company's members, the liquidator, ASIC and (in respect of a general insurance company) the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA). But in most cases compulsory liquidation will normally be commenced by one or more creditors.\n\nIn a compulsory winding up, the day on which the relevant Court order is made will constitute the date of the commencement of the winding up. The date on which the application to wind up the company was filed is called the \"relation-back day\".\nWhether the liquidation process is initiated by an order of the Court or through a creditors' voluntary winding up, a liquidator will be appointed to administer the winding up of the affairs of the company.\n\nThe liquidator is the principal officer of the company who is appointed to conduct the winding-up process. Where the company is insolvent, the liquidation will invariable be an accountant who is an insolvency professional.\n\nIn a compulsory winding up the Court will appoint the liquidator to the company. Generally it will act upon the nomination of the party making the application. In a voluntary winding up, the liquidator will be appointed by the members or creditors of a company. Liquidators are required to be members of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Australia or CPA Australia. They must be an independent person and be seen to be fully independent.\n\nThe liquidator's role has been described as a hybrid role with elements of fiduciary trustee, agent, officer of the corporation and in some instances officer of the Court. The liquidator owes fiduciary duties to the company, its creditors and members. The liquidator is required to act honestly, fairly and impartially at all times, and must avoid any conflicts of interest.\n\nLiquidators should exercise their powers and discharge their duties with the degree of care and diligence that a reasonable person would exercise if they were a director or officer of a corporation if the corporation's circumstances and occupied the office held by, and had the same responsibilities within the corporation as, the director or officer.\n\nUpon the appointment of the liquidator, all of the powers of the directors are suspended and the company itself will cease to carry on business except to the extent that the liquidator believes it will assist the beneficial disposal of the business. The liquidator will take over operation of the company and can deal with the property of the company. \nThe functions of the liquidator are to:\n\nLiquidators are subject to a number of duties, including fiduciary duties to the company itself. In relation to the administration of the liquidation the statutory duties of the liquidator include:\n\nThe liquidator is entitled to all the assets belonging to the company at the commencement of the winding up. But:\n\nAny property of the company which is disposed of after the deemed commencement of winding-up (other than by the liquidator in the exercise of his or her powers) is void unless validated by the Court.\n\nAny property of the company which is subject to a valid security interest is not considered part of the insolvent estate, and the insolvency process does not prevent a secured creditor from enforcing their rights over the relevant collateral.\n\nThe liquidator also has power to disclaim any onerous property or contracts of the company in liquidation with the leave of the Court. Any damages due to a counterparty to a contract which has been disclaimed may be proved as a debt in the winding-up.\n\nAny creditor wishing to make a claim with respect to a debt due from the company must formally make and prove the claim in accordance with the regulations. A secured creditor will not normally make a claim in the liquidation unless there is a shortfall in the collateral provided by the insolvent company. However, if a secured creditor wishes to do so, it may release its security, and claim in the winding-up for the full amount.\n\nWhere there are mutual debts between the company and any of its creditors when the company goes into winding-up then those debts will set-off. However a creditor is not entitled to claim the benefit of insolvency set-off if, at the time of giving or receiving credit to or from the company, the creditor had notice of the fact that the company was insolvent. Mutual debts are only capable of being set-off if each party is the beneficial owner of each debt (set-off is not available where the debt is owed to one person as agent for another, or where the debt has been assigned or secured in favour of a third party).\n\nWhere any of the assets of the company are subject to a valid security interest (not being a floating charge), those claims will normally be enforced against the assets outside of (and in priority to) the liquidation process. The priority of unsecured claims to the assets of the company in a liquidation is regulated by section 556 of the Corporations Act. The rules are very detailed, but broadly they provide that:\n\nAll ordinary unsecured creditors ranks equally between themselves, and within each rank of preferred creditors, the preferred creditors rank equally.\n\nIn the relevant provisions: \n\"\"Deferred expenses\" means, broadly, the fees and expenses properly incurred by a relevant authority.\n\"Relevant authority\" means a liquidator or provisional liquidator, administrator or administrator of a deed of company arrangement.\n\"Retrenchment payment\" means an amount payable to the employee by virtue of an industrial instrument in respect of the termination of the employee's employment by the company. \n\"Industrial instrument\"\" is defined in section 9 of the statute as (a) a contract of employment; or (b) a law, award, determination or agreement relating to terms or conditions of employment.\n\nIf the company is potentially salvageable with a realistic prospect of surviving its financial difficulties, a company may seek to enter into a non-liquidation arrangement. The two principal types are voluntary administration and deeds of company arrangement. These forms of administration are considered when the debtor company is insolvent or likely to become insolvent. Unlike receivership (which is usually initiated by a secured creditor) these two forms of administration are normally initiated by the company itself.\n\nVoluntary administrations and deeds of company arrangement are regulated under Part 5.3A of the Corporations Act. The purpose is to provide for the business, property and affairs of an insolvent company to be administered in a way that:\n\nVoluntary administration commences from the time when an administrator is appointed, and usually ends either upon the execution by the company of a deed of company arrangement or a resolution by the creditors that the company should be wound up.\n\nAn administrator may be appointed by:\nUpon their appointment an administrator is obliged to lodge a notice of appointment with ASIC in order to provide notification that the company is under external administration. The administrator must also publish a notice of appointment in a newspaper. Once an administrator is appointed, any use of the company's name must be followed by the words \"(Administrator Appointed)\".\n\nWhere the company is to survive as a going concern the aim of the voluntary administration process is the entering into of a deed of company arrangement. If a deed of company arrangement is executed it will lead to another administration, governed by the terms of the deed of company arrangement . Although both administrations are dealt with under the same part of the statute, the two are actually separate processes.\n\nAn administrator must be a registered liquidator who gives consent in writing to accept their appointment. Various persons are disqualified from acting as a company's administrator, including creditors with an interest in the company over $5000, a director, secretary or employee of the company, a director, secretary or employee of a company that is a mortgagee to the company's property, or an auditor of the company.\n\nThe core role of the administrator is outlined in the legislation. Whilst a company is under administration, the administrator:\n\nThe administrator is also required to investigate the affairs of the company and consider any possible causes of action and report to creditors. As soon as practicable after the administration of a company begins, the administrator must:\n\nIn carrying out these tasks the administrator acts as agent of the company. As such, the administrator has broad powers to deal with the company's property and carry on the company's business. The administrator is also entitled to the company's books and the officers of the company have an obligation to hand over any books in their possession. The directors are also required to provide the administrator with a statement about the company's business, property, affairs and financial circumstances within one week of the administrator being appointed, and must assist the administrator whenever reasonably required.\n\nThe principal effects of voluntary administration are:\n\nIf the administrator, in good faith, makes a payment or enters into a transaction, that act is valid and effectual for the purposes of the Corporations Act and cannot be set aside in a subsequent winding up of the company.\n\nA deed of company arrangement is also a type of administration. But unlike a scheme of arrangement it is not a standalone process. A deed of company arrangement is broadly a compromise agreement entered into between the company and its creditors that follows on from a voluntary administration, much like a company voluntary arrangement.\n\nWhere a deed of company arrangement is agreed to by creditors, it will normally result in a successful financial restructuring of the company. Alternatively, less commonly, the deed of company arrangement sometimes simply operates as a way to maximise the benefits of the creditors over the short term. During the operation of the deed of company arrangement a company normally continues to trade, however any debts incurred after the execution of the deed of company arrangement are not covered by the deed, and are treated as expenses of the administration process.\n\nAn administrator of the deed of company arrangement must be appointed, and this will usually be the former administrator from the voluntary administration continuing in office. The Corporations Act permits a great deal flexibility in relation to the deed of company arrangement. The deed of company arrangement may involve a simple moratorium for a fixed period, or a composition of creditors' claims whereby creditors agree to accept a cram down, or a plan to pay creditors in deferred instalments, or some combination of these things.\n\nThe main aim of a deed of company arrangement is to try and produce a better outcome for all parties than would result upon a liquidation. There are a number of advantages which can potentially arise from a consensual deed of company arrangement. The principal advantage for the company is normally that it can continue to trade during the deed of company arrangement period and may be able to survive its financial difficulties. In addition, for the company and its directors:\nThe primary benefit for the company's creditors is that there is a potential for a better dividend than what the creditors would otherwise receive if the company were to be broken up and wound-up by a liquidator. Other potential advantages of a deed of company arrangement for the company's creditors are:\n\nOnce a deed of company arrangement is executed, the administration of the company ends and the moratorium restrictions that apply to creditors come to an end and are replaced by the deed of company arrangement's moratorium provisions.\n\nThe deed of company arrangement binds the deed administrator, the company and its officers and the members of the company and releases the company from its debts to the extent provided by the deed of company arrangement. If a creditor fails to lodge a proof of debt in the administration of a deed of company arrangement, that creditor may be prevented from participating in any distribution of the fund created by deed of company arrangement.\n\nThe company is bound by the terms of the deed of company arrangement throughout the term of its operation. The company will also be required to change all public documents by inserting the words \"(Subject To A Deed Of Company Arrangement)\" after its name. In exceptional circumstances the Court may order that this requirement may be dispensed with.\n\nWhen the voluntary administration of the company ends and the deed of company arrangement comes into effect, and the powers of the directors are resurrected. However, the deed of company arrangement binds the directors of the company. The deed of company arrangement also binds all creditors in so far as they possess any claims arising before the effective date referred to in the deed of company arrangement. Creditor's claims are normally compromised to some degree under the terms of a deed of company arrangement in order to preserve the company as a going concern. Accordingly, a creditor who is bound by a deed of company arrangement will be unable to subsequently apply for a winding-up order against the company in respect of those claims.\n\nSecured creditors can continue to deal with their own security and are generally not bound by the terms of a deed of company arrangement unless they have expressly consented to it.\n\nThe liquidator of a company may in some cases seek to claw back the benefit of transactions which the company undertook during the \"twilight period\" prior to the commencement of the winding-up. These are generally referred to as \"voidable transactions\". The aim of the division is to protect \"the interests of unsecured creditors which might otherwise be prejudiced by a company disposing of assets or incurring liabilities or entering into unrealistic loans shortly before winding up\".\n\nThere are several different types of voidable transactions:\n\nUnfair preferences and uncommercial transactions are collectively referred to as \"insolvent transactions\" because of the requirement that the company must have been insolvent and the time they were entered into, or caused the company to become insolvent.\n\nInsolvent transactions are transactions entered into by a company whilst insolvent, or transactions entered into by the company the result of which caused the company to become insolvent. An insolvent transaction may be voidable when one of the following conditions apply:\n\nThere are two categories of insolvent transactions: unfair preferences, and uncommercial transactions.\n\nA transaction is an unfair preference if the company and the creditor are parties to the transaction and the transaction results in the creditor receiving from the company, in relation to an unsecured debt owed to the creditor, a greater amount than it would have received in relation to the debt in a winding up of the company. \nThe liquidator will be required to prove the various elements in order to retrieve the monies paid out by the company. These include that:\n\nIf a transaction is held to constitute an unfair preference, the recipient will be required to repay the benefit received from the company to the liquidator for general distribution to all creditors.\n\nAn uncommercial transaction is an insolvent transaction (that is the company was insolvent at the time of the transaction or the transaction caused the company to become insolvent) that a reasonable person in the place of the company would not have entered into, taking into account:\n\nIt is not necessary for the liquidator to demonstrate that the transaction was between the company and a creditor. The transaction can be between the company and any party. An uncommercial transaction can be voided if it was entered into during the 2 years prior to the relation-back day, or 4 years prior to the relation-back day if a related entity is a party to the transaction.\n\nWhere it is not possible to categorise transactions as unfair preferences or uncommercial transactions, they may still be voidable even if entered into outside of the time periods usually applied to such transactions. This will be the case where transactions were entered into by the company for the purpose of defeating, delaying or interfering with the rights of creditors during the 10 years prior to the relation back day.\n\nA liquidator may seek to avoid an unfair loan where the loan or loans were subject to interest or charges that are extortionate. In determining whether a loan is unfair, the Court will look at such things as the risk assumed by the company in lending, the value of any security in respect of the loan and the term of the loan. The unfair loan provisions do not require that the transaction be an insolvent transaction.\n\nA liquidator may seek to reclaim unreasonable payments made by companies to directors prior to liquidation, for example, by way of an excessive bonus. This provision extends to payments made to \"close associates\" of any director, conveyances, transfers, other dispositions of property, the issue of securities, and the incurring of an obligation to enter into these obligations.\n\nA transaction will be deemed an unreasonable director-related transaction if a reasonable person in the company's circumstances would not have entered into the transaction.\n\nThe Court may not make an order against a party where it would materially prejudice a right or interest of a person who is able to bring themselves within the protective provision. Where the person defending the liquidator's claim was not a party to the voidable transaction, the protective provision requires that they must prove that they did not receive a benefit as a result of the transaction, or if a benefit was received, that it was received in good faith and at the time there was no reasonable grounds for suspecting company insolvent. But if the person defending the liquidator's claim was a party to the voidable transaction then they must prove:\n\nThe liquidator also has a duty to investigate the company's officers and to determine whether there may be any liability for anything done by them prior to the company going into liquidation. Where the directors or officers have been guilty of either insolvent trading or misfeasance, this may provide the basis for financial claims against them, which the liquidator can use to swell the assets available for distribution to the creditors.\n\nThe Corporations Act codifies several duties into sections 180 to 183 of the statute.\n\nA director of an insolvent company may be personally liable for insolvent trading if: \n\nIf a director is found to be in breach, then they may also be subject to a civil penalty application by ASIC. ASIC may also seek compensation orders on behalf of the creditors in addition to the liquidator.\n\nThe breach of common law directors' duties may enable a liquidator to recover property from a director, or may give the liquidator a right to an account of profits. If a director removes or misuses company property, this would ordinarily be a breach of their duty of good faith, and may render the transaction voidable. Accordingly, the liquidator may attempt to recover the property from the director, who is deemed to hold it on constructive trust for the company. A director who breaches the duty to use reasonable care and diligence may also be liable for damages if the company suffered loss as a result of the breach.\n\nA person who contravenes duties set out in sections 180-183 of the Corporations Act may also be made subject to a civil penalty order of up to AU$200,000 upon the application of ASIC. The success rate of ASIC when seeking civil penalties is extremely high. The director may be ordered to pay compensation to the company in addition if the Court is satisfied that the corporation has suffered some loss as a result of the director's breach.\n\nOfficers of a company who breach sections 180-183 of the Corporations Act may also be criminally liable if: \n\n"}
{"id": "931046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=931046", "title": "Cardiff city centre", "text": "Cardiff city centre\n\nCardiff city centre () is the city centre and central business district of Cardiff, Wales. The area is tightly bound by the River Taff to the west, the Civic Centre to the north and railway lines and two railway stations – Central and Queen Street – to the south and east respectively. Cardiff became a city in 1905.\n\nThe city centre in Cardiff consists of principal shopping streets: Queen Street, St. Mary's Street and the Hayes, as well as large shopping centres, and numerous arcades and lanes that house some smaller, specialized shops and boutiques.\n\nThe city centre has undergone a number of redevelopment projects, including St. David's 2, which extended the shopping district southwards, creating 100 new stores and a flagship John Lewis, the only branch in Wales and the largest outside London. Compared to nearby cities, the new St David's Centre has more retail space than the whole of Newport or Swansea.\n\nIn 2008–9, the annual footfall of shoppers was 55 million, and is expected to have risen to 66 million by 2009–10. Cardiff is the sixth most successful shopping destination in the United Kingdom – behind London, Glasgow, Birmingham, Manchester and Liverpool.\n\nCardiff was granted city status by Edward VII in 1905.\n\nIn the 1960s, planners described Cardiff city centre as \"worn out, inconvenient, drab and dangerous\". The centre had escaped the extensive wartime bomb damage inflicted on other cities, so little redevelopment took place in the 1950s and 1960s. The Buchanan Plan of 1964 envisaged a highly ambitious extended city centre, crossed with urban motorways. The council scrapped the proposed motorway network and focused on the small commercial core of the city; its proposed redevelopment scheme, in partnership with a private developer, would have seen almost all of the city centre (except St Mary Street and Working Street) demolished, replaced by modernist office towers of up to 21 storeys and pedestrianised decks linking multistorey car parks to covered shopping malls.\n\nBy the time the legal agreement to implement 'Centreplan 70' was signed, the 1973 property crash had made it unviable. However, one legacy of the scheme was the future segregation of office and retail development, with the west end of Newport Road as the principal office area with secondary concentrations on Churchill Way, Greyfriars Road and Westgate Street.\n\nDevelopment in the 1970s and 80s was more piecemeal than envisaged in Centreplan, with the building of the St. David's Centre and St David's Hall, new multistorey car parks, and the grantsupported construction of the 14storey Holiday Inn (now the Marriott) and World Trade Centre (now the Cardiff International Arena), which gave a fillip to the city's conference and exhibition business. In the mid–1980s developers returned to Queen Street, creating three mediumsized malls, helping it to become one of the best performing shopping streets in the country in terms of footfall and rental levels.\n\nIn the 1990s the Mill Lane cafe quarter was developed in partnership with the Welsh Development Agency, a pedestrian forecourt was created for the refurbished Central railway station, a new walkway was constructed alongside the Taff and the Millennium Stadium was built on the site of the National Stadium and Empire Pool. The latter became, according to official publicists, one of the icons of Cardiff's new image.\n\nThe Castle Quarter includes some of Cardiff's Victorian and Edwardian arcades: Castle Arcade, High Street Arcade and Duke Street Arcade, and principal shopping streets: St Mary Street, High Street, Castle Street and Duke Street.\n\nDevelopment of the area began in February 2010 and is expected to be completed by July 2011. Cardiff Council says that work to create the Castle Quarter as a pedestrian friendly environment for High Street and St Mary Street is designed to enhance the city centre.\n\nCastle Street follows on from Cowbridge Road East from Canton and begins after Cardiff Bridge, over the River Taff. It becomes Duke Street after the junction with High Street before turning north and becoming Kingsway, leading to Cardiff Civic Centre. From west to east, streets that begin from the southern side of this stretch are Westgate Street, Womanby Street, High Street (St Marys Street), St Johns Street (The Hayes), Queen Street and Greyfriars Road. Cardiff Castle and Bute Park dominate the northern side of the street. On the southern side are pubs, bars, retail and hotel units. Castle Arcade and Duke Street Arcades begin from this stretch.\n\nSt. Mary Street () and High Street (). The former street is named after the 11th century church of St. Mary, the largest in Cardiff until it was destroyed by the Bristol Channel floods of 1607. Today the stretch of road is the home of a number of bars, night clubs and restaurants, as well as branches of many major banks. Also fronting onto the street is Howells department store, which stretches from just after Cardiff Central Market to the corner of Wharton Street. From August 2007 the street was closed to private vehicles, leaving only buses, cycles and taxis allowed to access the whole street. The street is usually closed to all traffic every Friday and Saturday night to allow the efflux from night clubs and pubs located in that part of the street to clear. It is also closed when major events take place such as at the Millennium Stadium. The Prince Of Wales is a prominent J D Wetherspoon establishment at the junction with Wood Street, which leads to Central Station. At the northern end of the street is Castle Street and Cardiff Castle. To the south is Callaghan Square.\n\nWomanby Street is one of Cardiff's oldest streets. It is known for its small, independent live music venues and is home to Clwb Ifor Bach. It is accessed from Castle Street, between Westgate Street and High Street.\n\nQueen Street () is the main thoroughfare in the city, now wholly pedestrianised. Most of Queen Street, from the castle moat to Dumfries Place, used to be called Crockherbtown (Crockherbtown Lane can still be found off Park Place), but the street was renamed in honour of Queen Victoria in 1886. Queen Street was pedestrianised in 1974 and is served by Cardiff Queen Street railway station on Station Terrace. It meets Dumfries Place/Newport Road at its eastern end, Duke Street/Castle Street at its western, and Park Place approximately halfway along. Further down Park Place is the New Theatre, a local landmark is Principality House, head office of the Principality Building Society. To the north running parallel is Greyfriars Road, referring to the site of an old monastery, a traditional office location that has recently seen conversion to bars, apartments and hotels as offices move to the new business parks on the edge of the city, or to the better connected southern end of the city centre.\n\nCathays Park is the civic centre of Cardiff. The Edwardian architecture of Cardiff City Hall, National Museum and Gallery of Wales, Cardiff University, Cardiff Crown Court, and the administrative headquarters of the Welsh Government dominate the area. Behind the City Hall is the Welsh National War Memorial. Bute Park also dominates the northwest of the area, running behind Cardiff Castle along the River Taff southward to Westgate Street and northward to Gabalfa. Cardiff's Winter Wonderland ice rink and fairground returns to the front lawn of the City Hall every winter.\n\nBoulevard de Nantes and Stuttgarter Strasse, named after Cardiff's twin cities, run through the southern end and act as a northern bypass of parallel Queen Street for the A4161. To the west, it is connected to Kingsway (leading to Castle Street and St Mary Street), and Dumfries Place/ Newport Road to the east. Park Place runs north to south through the area, linking it to the A470 in the north and Queen Street in the south\n\nDumfries Place is named after the Earl of Dumfries, a courtesy title given to the Marquis of Bute's eldest son.\n\nNewport Road, the major road leading east from Queen Street towards the neighbouring city of Newport, has been one of the prime office locations of central Cardiff since the 1960s. Some of the original buildings have been converted from office use to residential (e.g. The Aspect, Admiral House or hotel use including the Mercure Holland House. Occupancy of the remaining commercial property has increased, reflecting a shortage of office space in the city and there is now little scope for further conversion. Newport Road is also home to several buildings owned by Cardiff University, and Shand House, occupied by Cardiff Institute for the Blind.\n\nNewport Road is also the site for the Cardiff Royal Infirmary, now providing long term care and rehabilitation. The hospital once housed 500 beds and provided the main A&E service for Cardiff before the University Hospital of Wales took over these functions.\n\nChurchill Way runs parallel to the west of Station Terrace (Cardiff Queen Street station) and joins Queen Street in the north and Bute Terrace in the south. The Capitol Centre is on the corner with Queen Street. Further along this road are office and modern apartment developments. The Cardiff office of the Driving Standards Agency, former British Gas offices in Helmont House (now a Premier Inn), and an Ibis Hotel are located on this street. The Cardiff office of the DSA subsequently closed.\nCardiff Masonic Hall occupies a major site on the corner of Guildford Street, adjacent to Churchill Way.\n\nWood Street is the main access point for Cardiff Central railway and Central bus stations, with the latter undergoing reconstruction since early 2008. The street also has bus stands running along the length of the street as well. Travelling westwards along this street are the Millennium Stadium, Millennium Plaza (with bars, night clubs, comedy clubs and a Vue cinema), Stadium House, \"Media Wales\" (offices of the South Wales Echo and Western Mail) and Southgate House, (which houses among other organisations the Cardiff offices for the Armed Forces).\n\nCentral Square is a large public space between Wood Street and Cardiff Central railway station. It includes Cardiff bus station. In 2012 plans were announced to redevelop the square and rename it 'Capital Square'.\n\nWestgate Street runs parallel just west of St Marys Street for about half of the latter's length, linked by several alleys and lanes. Linking Castle Street and Wood Street, Cardiff Arms Park and the Millennium Stadium dominate its western side, whereas pubs and bars and hotels dominate its eastern side, with the Angel Hotel at the north end and the Royal Hotel to the south.\n\nThe Hayes () is where the department store Howells, Bwyty Hayes Island Snack Bar, Spillers Records, St David's Hall, and elegant Victorian arcades are found. At the northern end is Cardiff's Grade II* listed Old Library building (location of the Cardiff Story people's museum).\n\nThe Hayes used to be home to David Morgan department store, an historic local landmark that dominated the shop fronts on the western side of The Hayes. Since its closure in 2005, the Grade Ilisted David Morgan Buildings have been subdivided into several retail units, and the upper floors converted into 56 luxury apartments. The exterior of the building received a comprehensive refurbishment, with the street clock being reinstated and the façade being restored to its original design, following many alterations since its construction in the late 1800s.\n\nThe eastern side of the Hayes is fronted by the new St. Davids 2 shopping centre. Prior to this it was home to Oxford Arcade, a post war construction that dated quickly and was underused given its central location.\nThe southern end features the John Lewis department store and the new Cardiff Central Library, which opened in March 2009. The previous Central Library closed in 2006 to make way for the construction of the St. David's 2 shopping centre and was located a few hundred yards north-east on Bridge Street.\n\nAs part of the St Davids 2 development, the Hayes was pedestrianised and repaved. A new public square was created at its southern end with a large, interactive public artwork as its centrepiece called Alliance, a high sculpture consisting of a large stainless steel and enamelled metal ring and an arrow column, which was initially meant to feature lights that would rise and fall with the tide.\n\nCaroline Street is a pedestrianised link between St Mary Street and The Hayes. The street has been a host to all kinds of stores but has seen a surge in chip and kebab shops, and as such is commonly known as \"Chip Lane\" or \"Chip Alley\". Around 2003, the north side of the street was redeveloped after the demolition of the old Brains Brewery. In its place were luxury flats encircling the Old Brewery Quarter, where new shops, bars and restaurants were erected. The pavement on the street was retiled as part of this development.\n\nThis development, built in 1999, extends the central business district south of the mainline railway. Eventually the main development will include approximately 850,000 square feet (77,000 m²) of office space and other uses, of which approximately 350,000 square feet (33,000 m²) is complete (with the largest occupiers being Eversheds and British Gas). Further phases are unlikely to be built on a speculative basis. The initial masterplan suggest that the final phase, yet to be commenced, will also include hotel and residential use. Nearby offices on Tresillian Way (housing The AA, and Lloyds TSB Black Horse finance amongst others) plus further potential developments have turned the area relatively quickly into one of the largest office locations in Central Cardiff. Within a few years total office space in the area will exceed 1 million square feet (90,000 m²).\n\nThese two roads have traditionally formed the southern and southeastern boundaries of the central business district of Cardiff, and in the 2000s have seen a great deal of new development. Recent developments such as the 23storey Altolusso apartment complex, and the Big Sleep Hotel were set to be joined by (from west to east), a new 11storey office building (on the site of the 120-year-old Central Hotel – destroyed by fire in early 2003; the Meridian Gate development (consisting of an 11storey apartment block and a 21storey Radisson SAS Hotel); a new John Lewis department store as part of the St. David's 2 shopping expansion; Harlech Court (consisting of apartments and a rooftop restaurant); the University of South Wales's ATRiuM campus (which opened in 2007) along with the 21storey Tŷ Pont Haearn student halls; and 3 further residential towers (of up to 13 storeys) with lower floor retail and commercial use.\n\nFrom the north, North Road (A470) meets the city centre at the junction with Castle Street and Boulevard de Nantes, with the latter route forming a northern and eastern bypass, meeting Newport Road (A4161) and then Callaghan Square, just south of the city centre.\n\nFrom the west, the centre is accessed from Castle Street (A4161), Wood Street and Penarth Road (A4160), with St. Mary's Street connecting the three, but is restricted to nocar traffic. Penarth Road terminates at Callaghan Square.\n\nFrom the south, Lloyd George Avenue (A470), Bute Street and the Central Link (A4234) originate from Cardiff Bay and meet the city centre at Callaghan Square.\n\nThe vast majority of Cardiff Bus services run to or through the city centre, approaching from the west along either Tudor Street or Westgate Street, from the north along North Road or Newport Road, from the east along Newport Road and from the south along Callaghan Square. Most services circle the city centre, creating a \"bus box\". Some terminate or pass through Cardiff Central bus station, off Wood Street, which is currently being redeveloped. Other major interchanges include The Hayes, Dumfries Place, Westgate Street, Greyfriars Road and St. Mary Street, with taxi stands being located next to most of these.\n\nThe Baycar service circles the city centre every 10 minutes before continuing to Cardiff Bay.\n\nThe city centre is served by two railway stations. Cardiff Queen Street is in the east of the centre and is the city's main hub for urban services to the rest of Cardiff, its valleys and the Vale of Glamorgan. Cardiff Central, located in the south of the city centre, is the largest station in the city and one of the busiest in the United Kingdom, focusing on mainline services. Central railway station is located next to Central bus station forming an interchange.\n\nCathays railway station, Grangetown railway station and Ninian Park railway station are all within of the centre serving edges of the city centre.\n\nThe A470 bypasses the centre to the east running southbound to Cardiff Bay and northbound to North Cardiff, Pontypridd, Merthyr Tydfil and Brecon. The A470 road meets the A4232 at Cardiff Bay, leading to Culverhouse Cross and the M4 motorway, and also meets the A48 Camarthen–Gloucester road at Gabalfa, north of the centre.\n\nSome city centre taxis can be hailed. They are usually, but not always, black with a white bonnet or hackney carriages.\n\nThe Cardiff Waterbus has stops at Cardiff Castle and Taff Mead Embankment, next to the Millennium Stadium, with services to Cardiff Bay.\n\nA cycle hire system, similar to those in other large cities, launched in September 2009, and included 70 bikes and 35 hire points (initially 7) around the centre and the south of the city. The cycle hire system was shut down in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "6233623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6233623", "title": "Chartered Certified Accountant", "text": "Chartered Certified Accountant\n\nChartered Certified Accountant (designatory letters ACCA or FCCA) is a protected designation awarded by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). The Association is UK based and was historically an organisation of British qualified accountants, however it is now a global body for professional accountants with 208,000 qualified members allowed to use the designation and 503,000 students globally. Support offices/centres exist over 100 countries.\n\nThe term \"Chartered Certified Accountant\" was introduced in 1996. Prior to that date, ACCA members were known as \"Certified Accountant.\" It is still permissible for an ACCA member to use this term. Members of ACCA with post-qualification experience of more than five years and have completed the required continued professional development are designated Fellows, and use the designatory letters FCCA in place of ACCA.\n\nThe term \"Chartered\" refers to the Royal Charter granted by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom.\n\nChartered Certified Accountants work in all fields of business and finance. Some are engaged in public practice work, others work in the private sector and some are employed by government bodies.\n\nSince \"Chartered Certified Accountant\" is a legally protected term, individuals who describe themselves as such must be members of ACCA. If they carry out public practice engagements, they must comply with additional regulations such as holding a practising certificate, being insured against any possible liability claims and submitting to inspections.\n\nThe current syllabus is made up of 13 examinations, although some exemptions are available. The papers are split into two levels:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34408487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34408487", "title": "Chen Jianqiang", "text": "Chen Jianqiang\n\nChen Jianqiang is the Chairman of Springland International. \nAccording to Hurun Report's China Rich List 2013, he is the 401st richest person in China. Chen has net worth of $780 million. He is a first-generation entrepreneur and his wealth is self made.\n\nChen obtained his MBA from China Europe International Business School.\n\nChen is into retail business and owns Springland International. Springland operates supermarkets and department stores in Hong Kong. The company went public in Oct 2010.\n\nAs per Forbes, Chen's wealth was calculated based on public reports filed with the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The reports talked about Chen's holding as well as his disposal of approximately 29 million shares towards over-allotment option. Chen's attorney objected to Chen's inclusion in the Forbes list. He however did not refute the information and instead explained that Chen disagrees with the HKSE's requirement to disclose holdings. Chen's is still a part of the Forbes list of richest people.\n\n"}
{"id": "3853027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3853027", "title": "Christine Loh", "text": "Christine Loh\n\nChristine Loh Kung-wai, SBS, OBE, JP (born 1 February 1956), is a former Hong Kong Legislative Councillor, founder and CEO of Civic Exchange, founder of the Citizens Party, and founder of Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor. From 2012 to 2017, she was Under Secretary for the Environment in the government of CY Leung.\n\nUntil her appointment as Undersecretary for the Environment, Loh was CEO of Civic Exchange, the Hong Kong think tank that she co-founded in 2000. She was named \"Woman of the Year for 2006\" by \"Hong Kong Business\". She has worked in many areas, including law, business, politics, media and the non-profit sector, but is best known as a leading voice in public policy in Hong Kong, particularly in promoting democracy and environmental protection. She has long been associated with the campaign to save Hong Kong's Harbour from excessive land reclamation and overdevelopment.\n\nIn 2017, following the end of her official role, she is an adjunct professor in the Division of Environment and Sustainability at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, and is said to be revising her book \"Underground Front: The Chinese Communist Party in Hong Kong\", first published in 2010.\n\nLoh attended St. Paul's Convent School in Causeway Bay, and later Island School in Mid-levels, Hong Kong. She then went to Bedford High School in the UK. She later attended the University of Hull, City University of Hong Kong (Masters of Law in Chinese & Comparative Law) and the University of Hull (Doctor of Law, honoris causa) and was trained as a lawyer but she worked for 12 years as a commodities trader (1980–1991), rising to become managing director and later director of business development. Loh spent fourteen years in the commercial world, holding top regional posts in commodities trading at Philipp Brothers and Phibro Energy – the physical commodities trading arms of US multinational Salomon, Inc. (now Citicorp) — before joining a Hong Kong company (CIM Co.), where she headed the special projects division between 1992 and 1994. In April 2006, she was elected by shareholders of the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing (HKEx) to be a director of the company.\n\nLoh was appointed to the Legislative Council (LegCo) in 1992. In 1995 and 1998 she ran in two direct elections and won by large margins. She co-founded, in 1995, the Society for Protection of the Harbour and was responsible for creating and sponsoring the historic Protection of the Harbour Ordinance. While part of the democratic camp in LegCo, she took a less confrontational approach than some, preferring to keep open lines of communication with the so-called pro-China camp. \n\nIn 2000, she and Lisa Hopkinson co-founded a Hong Kong-based non-profit think tank, Civic Exchange, and once again entered the political spotlight, but outside of the LegCo. She resigned as its chief executive on 11 September 2012 upon her appointment as Undersecretary for the Environment in the administration of CY Leung, taking up her new post the following day. At the same time, she resigned from all her positions in other non-profit organisations, academic affiliations, and non-executive directorships in commercial firms.\n\nShe left the government at the end of CY Leung's term, in July 2017.\n\nFrom 1991, Loh hosted a public affairs radio programme and a variety of TV programmes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "567632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=567632", "title": "Common Fisheries Policy", "text": "Common Fisheries Policy\n\nThe Common Fisheries Policy (CFP) is the fisheries policy of the European Union (EU). It sets quotas for which member states are allowed to catch each type of fish, as well as encouraging the fishing industry by various market interventions. In 2004 it had a budget of €931 million, approximately 0.75% of the EU budget.\n\nWhen it came into force, the Treaty of Lisbon formally enshrined fisheries \"conservation\" policy as one of the handful of \"exclusive competences\" reserved for the European Union, to be decided by Qualified Majority Voting. However, general fisheries policy remains a \"shared competence\" of the Union and its member states. Thus decisions are still made primarily by the Council of the European Union, as was the case previously.\n\nThe common fisheries policy was created to manage fish stock for the European Union as a whole. Article 38 of the 1957 Treaty of Rome, which created the European Communities (now European Union), stated that there should be a common policy for fisheries.\n\nFishing is a relatively unimportant economic activity within the EU. It contributes generally less than 1% to gross national product. In 2007 the fisheries sector employed 141,110 fishermen. In 2007, 6.4 million tonnes of fish were caught by EU countries. The EU fleet has 97,000 vessels of varying sizes. Fish farming produced a further 1 million tonnes of fish and shellfish and employed another 85,000 people. The shortfall between fish catches and demand varies, but there is an EU trade deficit in processed fish products of €3 billion.\nThe combined EU fishing fleets land about 6 million tonnes of fish per year, of which about 700,000 tonnes are from UK waters. The UK's share of the overall EU fishing catch in 2014 was 752,000 tonnes, the second largest catch of any country in the EU. This proportion is determined by the London Fisheries Convention of 1964 and by the EU's Common Fisheries Policy.\n\nIn Fraserburgh, Scotland, the fishing industry creates 40% of employment and a similar figure in Peterhead. They are the EU's largest fishing ports and home to the pelagic vessel fleet. It is often in areas where other employment opportunities are limited. For this reason, community funds have been made available to fishing as a means of encouraging regional development.\n\nThe market for fish and fish products has changed in recent years. Supermarkets are now the main buyers of fish and expect steady supplies. Fresh fish sales have fallen, but demand for processed fish and prepared meals has grown. Despite this, employment in fish processing has been falling, with 60% of fish consumed in the EU coming from elsewhere. This is partly due to improvements in the ability to transport fresh fish internationally. Competitiveness of the EU fishing industry has been affected by overcapacity and shortages of fish to catch.\n\nFish farming is the fastest growing area of world food production. In 1995 it produced in value of world production of fish and shellfish. The main species in the EU are trout, salmon, mussels and oysters, but interest has been shown in sea bass, sea bream and turbot. Community support began in 1971 for inland fish farming, but was extended to other areas in the late 1970s. EU support covers similar areas to other land installations, but with additional concerns of technical and environmental problems caused by introducing major fish concentrations where farms are built. The industry suffers problems due to fluctuating demand for farmed fish.\n\nThe CFP currently has four components:\n\nThe CFP sets quotas for how much of each species can be caught in a certain ICES Statistical Area or groups of areas on a yearly or two-yearly basis. Each country is given a quota based upon the total available (Total Allowable Catch, TAC) and their traditional share (percentage). TACs are fixed annually by the Council of Ministers. They consider proposals drawn up by the European Commission, which consults its own scientific advisers (Scientific, Technical and Economic Committee of Fisheries, STECF). STECF generally provides its advice to the European Commission taking account of the work conducted by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES). The Council of Ministers furthermore (when relevant) takes account of the views of non-EU fishing nations and the advice coming directly from ICES, which is independent of EU institutions. After quotas are fixed by the Council of Ministers, each EU member state is responsible for policing its own quota. Countries distribute their quotas among fishermen using different systems.\n\nThe Basic Regulation sets the common principles for the EU management, under which each Member State can use different management approaches as licences, limited entry or individual fishing quota. Catches and landings must be recorded. Regulations cover the kind of fishing gear that may be used. Areas may be closed from fishing to allow stocks to recover.\n\nA minimum size for catch led to fishermen dumping dead fish that were too small to land legally, so a minimum mesh size was introduced, which let small fish escape to replenish stocks. Choice of mesh is complicated, because mature fish of different species are naturally different sizes and require different nets.\n\nIn 1977 an aid programme was introduced to improve the fish processing industries. This includes such things as fish filleting, salting, drying, smoking, cooking, freezing and canning. It was intended to indirectly assist the catching industry. There has been an attempt to introduce new technologies to the sector, improve hygiene conditions, and also fund conversions of fish processing factories to other uses.\n\nEach country is given a target for the size of its fleet. Funding is available to assist modernisation of boats and installations, but also to buy-out fishermen to reduce the fleet size. Money is available for advertising campaigns to encourage consumption of fish species that are not over-fished, or are unfamiliar to the public. Also, grants are available to assist the industry in improving product quality and managing quotas.\n\nThere are now more than 160 producer organisations (PO) in the EU. These are voluntary organisations set up by fishermen or fish farmers to assist in selling their product. Their members must include a minimum percentage of vessels in that sector, not discriminate in terms of nationality or location of their members within the EU, and must comply with other EU regulations. Organisations are required to develop plans to adjust fish catches to market demand. They may require non-members fishing in the same areas to follow the same restrictions as members.\n\nThey are empowered to take produce out of the market if prices fall below levels set by the Council of Ministers and receive compensation from the EU. Levels of compensation are set such that price falls as the amount of fish involved increases. Fish stocks may be stored and later returned to the market, or sold for animal feed. Buying-up of stocks must only be to cover occasional surpluses.\n\nTuna fishermen have a scheme where surplus stock is not bought up, but fishermen receive direct compensation if their income falls.\n\nFishing rights to fisheries outside the EU were significantly reduced when exclusive economic zones were defined in 1982. The EU has negotiated agreements to recover some of these fishing grounds in return for alternative trading rights with the EU. External trade is now affected by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), regulated by the World Trade Organization (WTO).\n\nResponsibility for fisheries in the Baltic sea was shared with the International Baltic Sea Fishery Commission (IBFC), to which the EU belonged until 1 January 2006. The Commission ceased to exist on 1 January 2007.\nMost Mediterranean fishing is confined to a 12-mile (22-km) strip considered territorial waters. The EU belongs to the General Fisheries Commission for the Mediterranean (GFCM) and the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna, which also makes recommendations for Mediterranean tuna. In 1994 conservation regulations were introduced banning certain fishing methods. In 1997 targets were set for tuna catches.\n\nEnforcement is the responsibility of member states, but there is a community level inspection service to ensure that member states enforce the rules within their own country. Member states are also under an obligation to ensure that their vessels observe EU agreements when operating outside the EU. The regulations are also intended to harmonise penalties for breaking the regulations in different countries.\n\nEnforcement involves managing quotas and implementing technical measures to preserve fish stocks. Inspectors may check fishing gear and inspect the register of fish caught. The type of fish caught is checked and compared to quotas of total permitted catch for a vessel. Checks may be made in port or at sea, and using aerial photography.\n\nInspectors may also check fish processing factories to ensure that all fish is documented and can be traced to its source. EU inspectors check that hygiene and processing regulations in any country exporting to the EU are satisfactory and of an equal standard to controls within the EU.\n\nNon-compliance remains a significant problem. In a number of EU fisheries, illegal fishing accounts for one-third to one-half of all catches.\n\nFishing was initially funded under the European Agriculture Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF). In 1993 a separate fund was established (FIFG), the Financial Instrument for Fisheries. From 1994 to 1999 the budget for FIFG totalled 700 million ECU. Any grant from FIFG must be accompanied by a minimum contribution from the national government. A grant to business must include a proportionate contribution from the business itself. Different rates of aid are applied to different regions.\n\nFrom 2007 to 2013, the European Fisheries Fund (EFF) will provide approximately 4.3 billion Euro to the European fishing sector. The adoption of the EFF was not uncontested, in particular by environmental groups, as it includes the possibility to fund vessel modernisation and other measures, which might increase pressure on already overfished stocks.\n\nIn 1997 North Sea states and EU representatives agreed a joint approach to identifying risks to the marine environment. A precautionary approach was adopted to seek to prevent pollution before damage was caused to the environment. Studies are being undertaken to monitor stocks of all fish, not just commercially important species.\n\nThe Common Fisheries Policy has been argued by certain commentators to have had disastrous consequences for the environment. This view is contradicted by historical evidence revealing that fishing stocks have been in chronic decline over the last century as a result of intensive trawl fishing. According to scientific research published in 2010, the depletion of fishing stocks is a consequence of mismanagement long before the Common Fisheries Policy came into being, a statement illustrated by the fact that British catches have declined by 94% over the last 118 years. Nonetheless, the Common Fisheries Policy has continued the trend of ineffective fisheries management in European waters. Indeed, the Common Fisheries Policy has done little if anything to reverse the decline of European fish stocks.\n\nThe common fisheries policy has been criticised by some fishermen who believe it is threatening their livelihoods.\n\nEU quotas can mean that fish are thrown overboard after being caught; yet as they are dead, this does not alleviate the problem as it was intended to.\n\nThe Common Fisheries Policy has been a major reason for countries with both substantial fish resources and small home markets, like Norway, Iceland, and Danish dependencies (Greenland and the Faroe Islands) and some other dependencies, to stay outside the European Union. \n\nA common criticism of the CFP is its centralised, top-down approach to management; although Member States are responsible for the policy's implementation and enforcement, members have given the European Commission sole competence in the creation of proposals and the making of decisions. The Commission is not exclusively responsible for the setting of total allowable catches. These are proposed by the commission but ultimately determined by the Council of [Fisheries] Ministers. Allocation of national catch quotas to Member States is on a pre-determined basis—the so-called relative stability—giving each member state pre-determined percentages of the available fishing opportunities. Although Member States hold some responsibilities, such as the distribution of quotas, it is argued that the EU retains too much authority over fisheries management. Furthermore, critics maintain that the organisation is ill-suited to the task of fisheries management as it lacks sufficient understanding of fisheries, and is too far removed from the realities of the industry to set accurate TACs and quotas. The command-and-control method characterised by the CFP is no longer deemed an effective form of fisheries management, and advocates of CFP reform consider a shift from traditional government to participatory third-order governance, incorporating the fisheries industry and Member States, to be vital to the success of the policy.\n\nConsequently, it is suggested that the management of the CFP could be improved through the application of the theory of subsidiarity—the principle that political decisions should be handled at the lowest, least-centralised competent level. The subsidiarity principle was introduced into EU policies as part of the 1992 Maastricht Treaty; however, it does not apply to areas such as the CFP over which the Community retains exclusive competence. A partial devolution of authority, for example involving Member States in the decision-making process and delegating the day-to-day management of fisheries to industry-based organisations, could potentially facilitate the inclusion of industry concerns into the CFP, involving those directly affected by the policy in management decisions and creating to a CFP which encourages compliance and collaboration.\n\nThe call for application of the subsidiarity principle to the CFP lies within the argument for its decentralisation. De-centralisation featured prominently in discussions related to the 2002 CFP reform, but the reform itself actually increased centralisation within the CFP, removing the right of Member States to block quota proposals and increasing the EU's role in enforcement. This increasing monopoly and disregard for the wishes of the fisheries industry led to alienation of stakeholders and resulted in reduced compliance. The failure of this increasingly centralised reform has proved to de-centralisation advocates that stakeholder participation in the governance process is crucial to the future success of fisheries governance.\n\nHowever, some critics argue that applying the subsidiarity principle to the CFP may not improve the policy's effectiveness, as it may lead to what de Vivero \"et al.\" term the \"participation paradox\"—the theory that the greater the number of actors involved in the decision-making process, the less significant the contribution made by each actor, and the smaller the participatory role played in the policy process. Greater devolution within CFP decision-making may therefore silence the voice of the fisheries industry as it competes with other state, private and civil actors to whom authority is also granted. Thus, although the subsidiarity principle can facilitate the government-to-governance transition advocated by many in relation to reform of the CFP, the participatory role of key stakeholders affected by the policy must be maximised to ensure the development of an effective and equitable Common Fisheries Policy.\n\nThe first rules were created in 1970. The original six Common Market members realised that four countries applying to join the Common Market at that time (Britain, Ireland, Denmark including Greenland, and Norway) would control the richest fishing grounds in the world. The original six therefore drew up Council Regulation 2141/70 giving all Members equal access to all fishing waters, even though the Treaty of Rome did not explicitly include fisheries in its agriculture chapter. This was adopted on the morning of 30 June 1970, a few hours before the applications to join were officially received. This ensured that the regulations became part of the acquis communautaire before the new members joined, obliging them to accept the regulation. In its accession negotiations, the UK at first refused to accept the rules but by the end of 1971 the UK gave way and signed the Accession Treaty on 22 January 1972, thereby bringing into the CFP joint management an estimated four fifths of all the fish off Western Europe. Norway decided not to join. Greenland left the EC in 1985, after having gained partial independence from Denmark in 1979.\n\nWhen the fisheries policy was originally set up the intention was to create a free trade area in fish and fish products with common rules. It was agreed that fishermen from any state should have access to all waters, except Irish fishermen that were refused access to fish any waters east of 4 deg west, thus closing the north sea to them. An exception was made for the coastal strip, which was reserved for local fishermen who had traditionally fished those areas. A policy was created to assist modernisation of fishing vessels and on-shore installations.\n\nIn 1976 the EC extended its fishing waters from 12 nautical miles to 200 nautical miles ( to ) from the coast, in line with other international changes. This required additional controls and the CFP as such was created in 1983. This now had four areas of activity: conservation of stocks, vessels and installations, market controls, and external agreements with other nations.\n\nIt was determined that there had been over-investment in vessels, over-fishing and that numbers of fish landed were decreasing. The review identified a need to improve compliance with the regulations. This led to a tightening of regulations and better monitoring of individual vessels. A second review was planned for 2002.\n\nAlthough fishing could be managed by reducing the fleet size, available fish vary from year to year too much to make this sensible. So a permit system was introduced stating where and when boats are allowed to fish. Scientific studies were commissioned to better-determine available stocks and guide allocation of permits.\n\nIn 2009, the EU Commission launched a wide-ranging debate on the way that EU fisheries are managed. It received input from EU citizens, organisations and EU-countries and published a report on the consultation.\n\nIn February 2013 the European Parliament voted for reform of the Common Fisheries Policy, including measures to protect endangered stocks, and the ending of discards. The new CFP came into effect from 1 January 2014, though more talks with EU governments are involved. In presenting the reform package, the German Social Democrat MEP Ulrike Rodust stated: \"As of 2015 the principle of maximum sustainable yield shall apply ... Our objective is that depleted fish stocks recover by 2020. Not only nature will benefit, but also fishermen: bigger stocks produce higher yields.\" The 2013 reform led to a greater role for the European Parliament, involving the convening of a trilateral dialogue (or \"trilogue\") between the European Council, European Commission and the Parliament, to work towards general agreement on reforming the CFP.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23069410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23069410", "title": "Del Pezzo Restaurant", "text": "Del Pezzo Restaurant\n\nDel Pezzo Restaurant was an eatery located at 211 West 34th Street (and later, on West 40th and West 47th) in New York City. It was frequented by singers connected with the Metropolitan Opera Company in the early 1930s. It was a favorite restaurant of Enrico Caruso; he and Giacomo Puccini dined there during the latter's visit to the United States in December 1906. They were joined by Marziale Sisca, the dean of Italian-American publishers, who owned the newspaper \"La Follia\". The restaurant was also frequented by \"Life\" magazine staff members and by artists, such as the group that first met in 1950 to establish Raphael Soyer's \"Reality\" magazine. It was also the restaurant where Le Corbusier had lunch during his stay in New York for working the preliminary studies of the United Nations Headquarters, which were being prepared in a drafting room on the twenty-seventh floor of the RKO building.\n"}
{"id": "14620859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14620859", "title": "Downtown Austin", "text": "Downtown Austin\n\nDowntown Austin is the central business district of Austin, Texas. Downtown is located on the north bank of the Colorado River. The approximate borders of Downtown include Lamar Boulevard to the west, Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard and the University of Texas at Austin to the north, Interstate 35 to the east, and Lady Bird Lake to the south.\n\nIt is where the city's highrise buildings are located, as well as being the center of government and business for the region. Downtown Austin is currently experiencing a building boom, with many condos and high rise towers being built.\n\nThe story of Downtown Austin began with the Republic of Texas and President Mirabeau B. Lamar in the 1830s. Lamar tapped Edwin Waller to direct the planning and construction of the new town. Waller chose a site on a bluff above the Colorado River, nestled between Shoal Creek to the west and Waller Creek to the east. Waller laid the new city in a simple grid pattern on a 640-acre (or one square-mile plot) with 14 blocks running in both directions. Much of this original design is still intact in downtown Austin today.\n\nOne grand avenue, which Lamar named \"Congress,\" cut through the center of town from Capitol Square down to the Colorado River. The streets running north-south (paralleling Congress) were named for Texas rivers with their order of placement matching the order of rivers on the Texas state map. The east-west streets were named after trees native to the region, despite the fact that Waller had recommended using numbers (they were eventually changed to numbers in 1884). The city's perimeters stretched north to south from the river at 1st Street to 15th Street, and from East Avenue (now Interstate 35) to West Avenue.\n\nWaller reserved key spots for public buildings and four public squares. Three of Waller's original squares survive to this day: Wooldridge Park, Republic Square and Brush Square.\n\nEdwin Waller, the first mayor of Austin, designed Congress Avenue to be Austin's most prominent street. Planned as the widest street in the original 1839 Austin plan, the 120-foot wide Congress Avenue initially ran from the Colorado River north to the State Capitol. Not coincidentally, Congress was the most important street in Austin city life during the 19th century. Early structures along Congress Avenue included government buildings, hotels, saloons, retail stores and restaurants. By the late 1840s \"The Avenue\" formed a well-established business district. The mid-1870s introduced gaslight illumination and mule-driven streetcars as well as construction of a new Travis County courthouse at Eleventh Street.\n\nStretching from First Street north to Eleventh Street, the Congress Avenue Historic District was created on August 11, 1978. Stylistically, the dominating structures of significance reflected general Victorian form and detailing, tempered by local materials and building techniques. Notable structures along Congress Avenue north of the Colorado include the Texas State Capitol, Paramount Theatre, the Southwestern Telegraph and Telephone Building, Gethsemane Lutheran Church and the Old Bakery.\n\nSixth Street is a historic street and entertainment district in Downtown Austin. Sixth Street itself stretches from Mopac Expressway in Old West Austin to Interstate 35 and beyond. The western portion includes the historic West Sixth Street Bridge at Shoal Creek. The nine-block area of East Sixth Street roughly between Lavaca Street to the west and Interstate 35 to the east is recognized as the \"Sixth Street Historic District\" and was listed in the National Register of Historic Places on December 30, 1975.\n\nThe area around nearby 4th Street and 6th Street has been a major entertainment district since the 1970s. Many bars, clubs, music venues, and shopping destinations are located on E. 6th Street between Congress Avenue and Interstate 35 and many offer live music at one time or another during the week. Traffic is generally blocked on E. 6th Street and most crossroads from I-35 to Brazos Street on weekend evenings, and football home games (depending on pedestrian traffic), as well as holidays and special events to allow the crowds to walk unfettered to the many venues that line the street. E. Sixth Street plays host to a wide variety of events each year, ranging from music and film festivals (such as South by Southwest) to biker rallies (such as The Republic of Texas Biker Rally) and the Pecan Street Festival. The area of Sixth Street west of Lavaca is known as the \"West 6th Street District\". Recently, there has been a growing movement to develop this area as an entertainment district of its own, geared toward the live music crowd. As of May 15, 2014, in response to a deadly crash during the SXSW festival and the increase of intoxicated patrons, vehicular parking between Brazos and Red River Streets is prohibited between the hours of 9 p.m. to 3 a.m. on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday evenings.\n\nThe Rainey Street Historic District is a community positioned near Lady Bird Lake and Interstate 35 in a southeastern pocket of downtown. The situation at Rainey Street is unique in that the area was once a sleepy residential street, albeit nestled right next to downtown, was rezoned as part of Austin's central business district in 2004. The hope at the time was to incentivize development near the Austin Convention Center and the since-built Emma S. Barrientos Mexican American Cultural Center. But while grander development has stalled, bars and eateries have flocked to Rainey, since CBD zoning enables traffic-heavy cocktail bar or restaurant use without any additional zoning request. As such, old bungalows have been fixed up and turned into bars and cocktail lounges with ample backyards and porches.\n\nThe West End or Market District of Austin is located in the northwest section of Downtown Austin, just north of the Seaholm District and to the west of the Warehouse District.\n\nThe Seaholm District is a formerly industrial section of southwest downtown Austin that the city wants to transform into a vibrant urban neighborhood. The city of Austin has designated the area from Lady Bird Lake to 5th Street and from Lamar Boulevard to San Antonio Street as the Seaholm District. At the core of the district is the decommissioned Seaholm Power Plant, which will be redeveloped into a landmark residential and retail destination. After several years of delays and false starts due in part to a recession that dried up financing for development, construction is expected to start on redevelopment projects at the former Seaholm Power Plant and the site of the former Green Water Treatment Plant east of Seaholm in 2012. Austin-based Southwest Strategies Group, the project's lead developer, announced plans to begin work on the 450,000 square feet of development to be built on the 7.8 acre site. The projects will transform the decommissioned plants on downtown's southwestern edge into lively hubs with shops, hotels, condominiums, apartments and other development.\n\nThe Bremond Block Historic District is a collection of eleven historic homes located in the west corner of downtown, constructed from the 1850s to 1910. The block was added to National Register of Historic Places in 1970, and is considered one of the few remaining upper-class Victorian neighborhoods of the middle to late 19th century in Texas. Six of these houses were built or expanded for members of the families of brothers Eugene and John Bremond, who were prominent in late-19th-century Austin social, merchandising, and banking circles. They are located within the square block bordered by West Seventh, West Eighth, Guadalupe, and San Antonio streets. The district also includes several houses on the west side of San Antonio and the south side of West Seventh, at least three of which were built or altered by the North family.\n\nJudges Hill is a largely residential neighborhood is located north of the central business district of downtown Austin on the eastern bluff overlooking Pease Park, bordered by Rio Grande Street, 15th Street, Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd and Lamar Blvd. In 1851, Elijah Sterling Clack Robertson built the first home in present-day Judges Hill near the corner of 18th and San Gabriel. Although the house was subsequently demolished in 1966. Judge Robertson was the first among the neighborhood resident judges and attorneys who earned the area the name of Judges Hill. The area includes many historically designated properties from the late 19th century, some significant mid-century modern design, student communities and limited multi-family housing.\n\nThe Red River Cultural District is an entertainment district in Downtown Austin. The Austin City Council approved a resolution creating the district on October 17, 2013. The district runs along the 600 - 900 blocks of Red River Street. The resolution also directs the City Manager to address parking and loading and unloading issues in the area and to investigate the state process used to designate an area as a state cultural district. The nightclubs Stubb's, Beerland Mohawk, Red Eyed Fly, Elysium, Barbarella, Metal and Lace, Swan Dive and Plush and a handful of other clubs on nearby side streets are included in the district.\n\nThe city hall is located in Downtown Austin and is the administrative office of Austin. Originally built in 1871, the city hall was demolished and rebuilt multiple times before the current one was built in November 2004. The current city hall cost $55.6 million to build and contains a total of seven stories, of which three are underground. Within the building, city council meetings take place in the council chambers. The city council, including the mayor, are voted by Austin's residents. In 2014, Austin changed its at-large system of electing city council members to a 10-1 district-based system. The mayor serves a four-year term.\n\nAustin Central Fire Station 1, 2, and 4 of the Austin Fire Department, all of which are located in downtown, provide fire protection.\n\nThe Travis County government offices, including the Commissioners Court, district courts, county courts, and other facilities, are located in the Heman Marion Sweatt Travis County Courthouse and other buildings in the Downtown Complex.\n\nDowntown Austin is dominated by the Texas State Capitol and associated government buildings.\n\nThe University of Texas System is headquartered in Downtown Austin. O. Henry Hall, the main headquarters, was originally a federal courthouse and post office. The Thomas J. Rusk State Office Building is located in Downtown Austin. It includes the Texas State University System headquarters.\n\nThe Texas Third Court of Appeals is located in the Price Daniel, Sr. State Office Building in Downtown Austin.\n\nThe Texas Department of Public Safety operates the Region 7 Capitol office in Downtown Austin.\n\nThe United States Courthouse for the Austin division of the United States District Court for the Western District of Texas is located in downtown Austin, adjacent to Republic Square Park.\n\nThe United States Postal Service operates the Downtown Austin Post Office in Downtown Austin.\n\nThe Consulate General of Ireland in Austin is located in Suite 1720 of Bank of America's financial center at 515 Congress Avenue. The Consulate-General of Mexico in Austin was located in Suite 330 within the 800 Brazos Street/Brazos Place complex. It is now located west of Downtown Austin.\nCapital Metropolitan Transportation Authority provides public transportation services, including bus, paratransit and since 2010, commuter rail services to Downtown Austin. The Downtown Capital Metrorail is located near the Austin Convention Center on Fourth Street, between Neches and Trinity; the station is outside of the Austin Convention Center.\n\nMajor employers in Downtown Austin include the corporate headquarters and flagship store of Whole Foods Market, GSD&M Idea City and one co-headquarter location of Indeed. Schlotzsky's has its headquarters in the 301 Congress Avenue building in Downtown Austin. The \"Texas Observer\", a magazine, has its headquarters in Downtown Austin. Gowalla also has its headquarters there.\n\n\"Texas Monthly\" has its headquarters at 816 Congress Ave. It occupies a area on the 17th floor of the building. it has about 80 employees. The headquarters was scheduled to move to its current location in the summer of 2011. Previously the headquarters were in Suite 1600 of 701 Brazos.\n\nThe Downtown Austin Alliance is a partnership of individuals and business dedicated to promoting Downtown Austin.\n\nAustin Community College operates the Rio Grande Campus in Downtown.\n\nAustin Independent School District operates area public schools. The zoned schools are located outside of Downtown. All residents south of 15th Street are zoned to Mathews Elementary School, O. Henry Middle School, and Austin High School. Some residents north of 15th Street are zoned to Lee Elementary School, Kealing Middle School, and McCallum High School. Other residents are zoned to Bryker Woods Elementary School, O. Henry Middle School, and Austin High School. In addition, Pease Elementary School is located in Downtown Austin.\n\nPease was built in 1876. Mathews was built in 1916. Bryker Woods and Lee were built in 1939. McCallum and O. Henry were built in 1953. The current Austin High School campus opened in 1975.\n\nThe Khabele School, a private middle and high school, is located in Downtown Austin.\n\nDowntown Austin is famous for its culture and 6th Street, a historic street and entertainment district.\n\nThe Paramount Theater is an Austin cultural icon. Built and completed in 1915, it was originally made for vaudeville. Over the years, as movies became the leading form of entertainment, the theater was remodeled with upholstered chairs and a state-of-the-art sound system. The theater would nearly close in the 1960s as people made the move from theaters to television. However, the building would be restored before closing, leading the Paramount Theater to avoid demolition. Today, the theater continues to operate, viewing popular movies.\n\nThe Contemporary Austin Jones Center is located at 700 Congress Avenue. The Contemporary Austin is Austin, Texas's primary community art museum, consisting of two primary locations and an art school.\n\nDowntown Austin Magazine (DAM) features articles and guides focused on Downtown Austin, including a restaurant guide and shopping guide. The Texas Tribune has its headquarters in Downtown Austin.\n\n"}
{"id": "196649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=196649", "title": "E-government", "text": "E-government\n\nE-government (short for electronic government) is the use of electronic communications devices, computers and the Internet to provide public services to citizens and other persons in a country or region. According to Jeong, 2007 the term consists of the digital interactions between a citizen and their government (C2G), between governments and other government agencies (G2G), between government and citizens (G2C), between government and employees (G2E), and between government and businesses/commerces (G2B). E-government delivery models can be broken down into the following categories: This interaction consists of citizens communicating with all levels of government (city, state/province, national, and international), facilitating citizen involvement in governance using information and communication technology (ICT) (such as computers and websites) and business process re-engineering (BPR). Brabham and Guth (2017) interviewed the third party designers of e-government tools in North America about the ideals of user interaction that they build into their technologies, which include progressive values, ubiquitous participation, geolocation, and education of the public.\n\nOther definitions are more away from technology as an object, to see them simply as facilitators or instruments and focus on specific changes in Public Administration issues, and in the internal transformation of a Government, is the case of the definition that established the specialist technologist Mauro D. Ríos in the paper \"In search of a definition of Electronic Government\", he says: \"Digital Government is a new way of organization and management of public affairs, introducing positive transformational processes in management and the structure itself of the organization chart, adding value to the procedures and services provided, all through the introduction and continued appropriation of information and communication technologies as a facilitator of these transformations.\"\nE-government is also known as e-gov, electronic government, Internet governance, digital government, online government, connected government. As of 2014 the OECD still uses the term digital government, and distinguishes it from e-government in the recommendation produced there for the Network on E-Government of the Public Governance Committee. Several governments have started to use the term digital government to a wide range of services involving contemporary technology, such as big data, automation or predictive analytics.\n\n\"E-gov strategies\" (or \"digital government\") is defined as \"The employment of the Internet and the world-wide-web for delivering government information and services to the citizens.\" (United Nations, 2006; AOEMA, 2005). \"Electronic government\" (or \"e-government\") essentially refers to \"utilization of Information Technology (IT), Information and Communication Technologies (ICT s), and other web-based telecommunication technologies to improve and/or enhance on the efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery in the public sector.\". E-government promotes and improves broad stakeholders contribution to national and community development, as well as deepen the governance process.\n\nIn electronic government systems, government operations are supported by web-based services. It involves the use of information technology, specifically the Internet, to facilitate the communication between the government and its citizens.\n\nThe Division of a Public Administration and Development Management (DPAPM) of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UN-DESA) conducts a bi-annual e-government survey which includes a section titled \"e-Government Development Index (EGDI)\". It is a comparative ranking of 193 countries of the world according to three primary indicators: i) the OSI - Online Service Index that measures the online presence of the government in terms of service delivery; ii) the TII - Telecommunication Infrastructure Index iii) HCI -Human Capital Index . Constructing a model for the measurement of digitized services, the Survey assesses the 193 member states of the UN according to a quantitative composite index of e-government readiness based on website assessment; telecommunication infrastructure and human resource endowment.\n\nA diverse group of 100 researchers online volunteers from across the globe engaged with the United Nations Department of Economic Affairs (UN DESA) to process 386 research surveys carried out across 193 UN Member States for the 2016 UN E-Government Survey. The diversity of nationalities and languages of the online volunteers—more than 65 languages, 15 nationalities, of which half are from developing countries—mirrors perfectly the mission of the survey.\n\nE-government should enable anyone visiting a city website to communicate and interact with city employees via the Internet with graphical user interfaces (GUI), instant-messaging (IM), learn about government issues through audio/video presentations, and in any way more sophisticated than a simple email letter to the address provided at the site”\n\nThe essence of e-governance is \"The enhanced value for stakeholders through transformation\" and “the use of technology to enhance the access to and delivery of government services to benefit citizens, business partners and employees”. The focus should be on:\nWhilst e-government has traditionally been understood as being centered around the operations of government, e-governance is understood to extend the scope by including citizen engagement and participation in governance. As such, following in line with the OECD definition of e-government, e-governance can be defined as the use of ICTs as a tool to achieve better governance.\n\nThe primary delivery models of e-government can be divided into:\n\nWithin each of these interaction domains, four kinds of activities take place:\n\nWhile e-government is often thought of as \"online government\" or \"Internet-based government,\" many non-Internet \"electronic government\" technologies can be used in this context. Some non-Internet forms include telephone, fax, PDA, SMS text messaging, MMS, wireless networks and services, Bluetooth, CCTV, tracking systems, RFID, biometric identification, road traffic management and regulatory enforcement, identity cards, smart cards and other near field communication applications; polling station technology (where non-online e-voting is being considered), TV and radio-based delivery of government services (e.g., CSMW), email, online community facilities, newsgroups and electronic mailing lists, online chat, and instant messaging technologies.\n\nThe main disadvantages concerning e-government is the lack of equality in public access to computers and the internet (the \"digital divide\", a reference to the fact that people who have low incomes, who are homeless and/or who live in remote regions may have little or no access to the Internet), reliability of information on the web, and issues that could influence and bias public opinions. There are many considerations and potential implications of implementing and designing e-government, including disintermediation of the government and its citizens, impacts on economic, social, and political factors, vulnerability to cyber attacks, and disturbances to the \"status quo\" in these areas. See also Electronic leviathan.\n\nThe political nature of public sector forms are also cited as disadvantages to e-government systems.\n\nTrust in e-governance is very highly dependent on its performance and execution, which can be measured through the effectiveness of current actions. This is much riskier and prone to fluctuation than a system of trust that is based on reputation because performance does not consider past actions.\n\nBecause E-government is in the early stages of development in many countries and jurisdictions, it is hard to be applied to forms of government that have been institutionalized. Age-old bureaucratic practices being delivered in new mediums or using new technologies can lead to problems of miscommunication\n\nIncreased electronic contact and data exchange between government and its citizens goes both ways. Once e-government technologies become more sophisticated, citizens will be likely be encouraged to interact electronically with the government for more transactions, as e-services are much less costly than bricks and mortar service offices (physical buildings) staffed by civil servants. This could potentially lead to a decrease in privacy for civilians as the government obtains more and more information about their activities. Without safeguards, government agencies might share information on citizens. In a worst-case scenario, with so much information being passed electronically between government and civilians, a totalitarian-like system could develop. When the government has easy access to countless information on its citizens, personal privacy is lost.\n\nAlthough \"a prodigious amount of money has been spent\" on the development and implementation of e-government, some say it has yielded only a mediocre result. The outcomes and effects of trial Internet-based government services are often difficult to gauge or users seem them unsatisfactory.\nAccording to Gartner, Worldwide IT spending is estimated to total $3.6 trillion in 2011 which is 5.1% increase from the year 2010 ($3.4 trillion).\n\nAn e-government website that provides government services often does not offer the \"potential to reach many users including those who live in remote areas [without Internet access], are homebound, have low literacy levels, exist on poverty line incomes.\" Homeless people, people in poverty and elderly people may not have access.\n\nOpponents of e-government argue that online governmental transparency is dubious because it is maintained by the governments themselves. Information can be added or removed from the public eye. To this day, very few organizations monitor and provide accountability for these modifications. Those that do so, like the United States’ OMBWatch and Government Accountability Project, are often nonprofit volunteers. Even the governments themselves do not always keep track of the information they insert and delete.\n\nThe ultimate goal of the e-government is to be able to offer an increased portfolio of public services to citizens in an efficient and cost effective manner. E-government allows for government transparency. Government transparency is important because it allows the public to be informed about what the government is working on as well as the policies they are trying to implement.\nSimple tasks may be easier to perform through electronic government access. Many changes, such as marital status or address changes can be a long process and take a lot of paper work for citizens. E-government allows these tasks to be performed efficiently with more convenience to individuals.\nE-government is an easy way for the public to be more involved in political campaigns. It could increase voter awareness, which could lead to an increase in citizen participation in elections.\nIt is convenient and cost-effective for businesses, and the public benefits by getting easy access to the most current information available without having to spend time, energy and money to get it.\n\nE-government helps simplify processes and makes government information more easily accessible for public sector agencies and citizens. For example, the Indiana Bureau of Motor Vehicles simplified the process of certifying driver records to be admitted in county court proceedings. Indiana became the first state to allow government records to be digitally signed, legally certified and delivered electronically by using Electronic Postmark technology. In addition to its simplicity, e-democracy services can reduce costs. Alabama Department of Conservation & Natural Resources, Wal-Mart and NIC developed an online hunting and fishing license service utilizing an existing computer to automate the licensing process. More than 140,000 licenses were purchased at Wal-Mart stores during the first hunting season and the agency estimates it will save $200,000 annually from service.\n\nThe anticipated benefits of e-government include efficiency, improved services, better accessibility of public services, sustainable community development and more transparency and accountability.\n\nOne goal of some e-government initiatives is greater citizen participation. Through the Internet's Web 2.0 interactive features, people from all over the country can provide input to politicians or public servants and make their voices heard. Blogging and interactive surveys allow politicians or public servants to see the views of the people on any issue. Chat rooms can place citizens in real-time contact with elected officials or their office staff or provide them with the means to interact directly with public servants, allowing voters to have a direct impact and influence in their government. These technologies can create a more transparent government, allowing voters to immediately see how and why their representatives in the capital are voting the way they are. This helps voters decide whom to vote for in the future or how to help the public servants become more productive.\n\nA government could theoretically move more towards a true democracy with the proper application of e-government. Government transparency will give insight to the public on how decisions are made and hold elected officials or public servants accountable for their actions. The public could become a direct and prominent influence in government legislature to some degree.\n\nProponents of e-government argue that online government services would lessen the need for hard copy paper forms. Due to recent pressures from environmentalist groups, the media, and the public, some governments and organizations have turned to the Internet to reduce paper use. The United States government utilizes the website http://www.forms.gov to provide “internal government forms for federal employees” and thus “produce significant savings in paper. As well, if citizens can apply for government services or permits online, they may not need to drive into a government office, which could lead to less air pollution from gas and diesel-fuelled vehicles.\n\nE-government allows citizens to interact with computers to achieve objectives at any time and any location and eliminates the necessity for physical travel to government agents sitting behind desks and windows. Many e-government services are available to citizens with computers and Internet access 24 hours a day and seven days a week, in contrast to bricks and mortar government offices, which tend to be only open during business hours (notable exceptions are police stations and hospitals, which are usually open 24 hours a day so that staff can deal with emergencies).\n\nImproved accounting and record keeping can be noted through computerization, and information and forms can be easily accessed by citizens with computers and Internet access, which may enable quicker processing time for applications and find information. On the administrative side, access to help find or retrieve files and linked information can now be stored in electronic databases versus hard copies (paper copies) stored in various locations. Individuals with disabilities or conditions that affect their mobility no longer have to be mobile to be active in government and can access public services in the comfort of their own homes (as long as they have a computer and Internet and any accessibility equipment they may need).\n\nRecent trials of e-government have been met with acceptance and eagerness from the public. Citizens participate in online discussions of political issues with increasing frequency, and young people, who traditionally display minimal interest in government affairs, are drawn to electronic voting procedures.\n\nAlthough Internet-based governmental programs have been criticized for lack of reliable privacy policies, studies have shown that people value prosecution of offenders over personal confidentiality. Ninety percent of United States adults approve of Internet tracking systems of criminals, and 57% are willing to forgo some of their personal internet privacy if it leads to the prosecution of criminals or terrorists.\n\nThere are also some technology-specific sub-categories of e-government, such as m-government (mobile government), ubiquitous government), and g-government (GIS/GPS applications for e-government).\n\nThe previous concern about developments in E-government concerning technology are due to the limited use of online platforms for political reasons by citizens in local political participations.\n\nThe primary delivery models of e-government are classified depending on who benefits. In the development of public sector or private sector portals and platforms, a system is created that benefits all constituents. Citizens needing to renew their vehicle registration have a convenient way to accomplish it while already engaged in meeting the regulatory inspection requirement. On behalf of a government partner, the business provides what has traditionally, and solely, managed by government and can use this service to generate profit or attract new customers. Government agencies are relieved of the cost and complexity of having to process the transactions.\n\nTo develop these public sector portals or platforms, governments have the choice to internally develop and manage, outsource, or sign a self-funding contract. The self-funding model creates portals that pay for themselves through convenience fees for certain e-government transactions, known as self-funding portals.\n\nSocial networking services and websites are an emerging area for e-democracy. The social networking entry point is within the citizens’ environment and the engagement is on the citizens’ terms. Proponents of e-government perceive government use of social networking as a medium to help government act more like the public it serves. Examples can be found at almost every state government portal through Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube widgets.\n\nGovernment and its agents also have the opportunity to follow citizens to monitor satisfaction with services they receive. Through ListServs, RSS feeds, mobile messaging, micro-blogging services and blogs, government and its agencies can share information to citizens who share common interests and concerns. Government is also beginning to Twitter. In the state of Rhode Island, Treasurer Frank T. Caprio is offering daily tweets of the state’s cash flow. For a full list of state agencies with Twitter feeds, visit NIC. For more information, visit transparent-gov.com.\n\nGovernment 2.0 or Gov 2.0 refers to government policies that aim to harness collaborative technologies and interactive Internet tools to create an open-source computing platform in which government, citizens, and innovative companies can improve transparency and efficiency. Put simply, Gov 2.0 is about \"putting government in the hands of citizens\". Gov 2.0 combines interactive Web 2.0 fundamentals with e-government and increases citizen participation by using open-source platforms, which allow development of innovative apps, websites, and widgets. The government’s role is to provide open data, web services, and platforms as an infrastructure.\n\nFollowing the transition from the longstanding Kenya African National Union government to the National Rainbow Coalition government in December 2002, in January 2004 a Directorate of e-government was established after an executive (cabinet) session. The newly created department had the duty to draw the plan of action for future ICT implementations.\n\nLike many other African nations, Kenya has embraced the high mobile penetration rate within its population. Even people living in remote areas that did not have access to traditional telecommunications' networks can now communicate with ease. The fact of the same has, and continues to have, a great impact on the governments' strategies in reaching out to its citizens.\nGiven that about 70% of the population owns mobile phones, leading mobile network operators like Safaricom have taken a great step in offering services that meet citizens' demands. Such services include Kipokezi (which allows subscribers to do online chatting and also exchange electronic mails via standard mobile phones), and M-Pesa (which allows the subscribers to send and receive electronic cash). Such services have even appealed to the majority of Kenyans, as they support the branchless members of the society too, in undertaking normal and secure businesses via M-Pesa. The recent IMF report reveals that MPESA transactions in Kenya exceeded those carried out by the Western Union worldwide.\n\nWebsite: Open Kenya | Transparent Africa\n\nThe eGovernment web portal has been developed to provide more convenient access to various government service and information through one window. Services can now be delivered to people at their own convenience, and more importantly now have a lot more weight on transparency and accountability of public services.\n\nThe E-Governance initiatives and programs in India are undertaken by the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY www.meity.gov.in ).\nThe current umbrella program for e-governance of Government of India is known by the title \"DIGITAL INDIA\" (www.digitalindia.gov.in)\n\nIndian government has launched many e-governance initiatives, including a portal for public grievance,<ref name=\"http://pgportal.gov.in/\"></ref> MCA21 Mission Mode Project,<ref name=\"http://www.mca.gov.in/MCA21/\"></ref> e-Filing of income tax,<ref name=\"https://incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in/\"></ref> e-gazette,<ref name=\"http://www.egazette.nic.in/\"></ref> & digital India policy.<ref name=\"http://deity.gov.in/sites/upload_files/dit/files/Digital%20India.pdf\"></ref>\n\nE-government in Indonesia is developing, especially in central and regional/local government offices. E-government was officially introduced to public administration by Presidential Directive No 6/2001 on Telematics, which states that the government of Indonesia has to use telematics technology to support good governance. Furthermore, e-government should have been introduced for different purposes in government offices. As one of ISO member countries, Indonesia gives more attention to facilitate the activities of standardization. Among of the facilities provided are building the National information system of standardization (SISTANAS) and Indonesia Standardization Information Network (INSTANET). As of 2017, ministries, institutions and local governments of Indonesia used to run separate e-government systems, which is now integrated into a central based system. In 2017, the government has also undertaken programs for digitization of SMEs and the informal sector. Many of the cities across Indonesia including Jakarta, Bandung, Surabaya,and Makassar are implementing the concept of Smart City, consisting of e-government, e-health, e-education, e-logistics and e-procurement as priority areas.\n\nIn 2002, Iran published a detailed report named TAKFA (Barnameye Tose-e va Karborde Fanavaie Etela’at) in which it was predicted that most of the government bodies would try to virtualize their services as soon as possible. However, based on the reports by UN bodies, Iran has failed in the recent years to meet the average standards of e-government. In 2008, the Supreme Council of Information released a report which criticized the government for its poor advancement in employing new communication technologies for administration purposes.\n\nIn 2016, Iran launched the National Information Network and improved the quality and speed of internet access. In 2017 Iran introduced phase one of e-government including E-Tax, E-Customs, E-Visa, E-Government Portal, and a mobile application to modernize Iran's government services.\n\nThe Iranian government plans to introduce other phases of E-gov in the near future.\n\nIn Malaysia, the e-government efforts are undertaken by the Malaysian government, under the umbrella of Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC) and e-government flagships, which was launched in mid-1996, by Dr Mahathir Mohamad (1981-2003), by the then Prime Minister of Malaysia (Jeong & Nor Fadzlina, 2007).\n\nElectronic government is an initiative aimed at reinventing how the government works. It seeks to improve both how the government operates, as well as how it deliver services to the people (Ibrahim Ariff & Goh Chen Chuan, 2000).\n\nThe Yangon City Development Committee (Burmese- ရန်ကုန်မြို့တော်စည်ပင်သာယာရေးကော်မတီ) (YCDC) is the administrative body of Yangon, and Yangon is the largest city and former capital of Myanmar (Burma). The Yangon City Development Committee consists of 20 departments. Its headquarters was on the Yangon City Hall. The committee's chairman is also the city's mayor.\n\nIn 2003, YCDC was organized to provide e-Government for Yangon City. The main purposes of the city's e-Government program are to provide easy access between the government and the city's citizens via the Internet, to reduce paper usage, to reduce the city budget, to build the city's fiber ring, to provide timely public information, to store public data and to develop and expand G2G, G2C, G2B, and G2E programs.\n\nIn January 2013 responsibility for e-Government was divided between the e-Government Administration Committee and the e-Government Processing Committee. The e-Government Administration Committee includes the Mayor of Yangon City as Chief, the General Secretary of Yangon City as Sub-Chief, and the other 20 head of department officers as chairmen. The e-Government Processing Committee includes the Head of Public Relation and Information Department as Chief and the other 20 deputy head of department officers as chairmen.\n\nThe official web-portal is www.ycdc.gov.mm.\n\nMandalay is the second largest city and the last royal capital of Myanmar (Burma).\nIn 2014, Mandalay Region Government developed www.mdyregion.gov.mm to know about regional government and their activities to people.\n\nMandalay Region Government organized e-Government Steering Committee in 23 June 2016.\nThat committee chairman was U Sai Kyaw Zaw, Minister, Ministry of Ethnic Affairs.\n\nAt 21st, July 2017 www.emandalay.gov.mm web portal was opened by Dr. Zaw Myint Maung, Prime Minister of Mandalay Region Government.\nThat portal include 2 e-services, 199 topics from 70 agencies.\nCommittee develop a Regional Data Center too. That Data center will be opened in 2018.\n\nThe e-Government planning and conceptual framework has been presented to Nepal in an extensive support from the Government of Korea (KIPA). E-government Vision is ‘The Value Networking Nepal’ through:\nNepal’s E-government mission statement is \"Improve the quality of people’s lives without any discrimination, transcending regional and racial differences, and realize socio-economic development by building a transparent government and providing value added quality services through ICT.\"\n\nThe e-Government practice has been slow both in adoption and practice in Nepal. However, local government bodies now have dedicated team of ICT Volunteers working towards implementing e-Government in the country through an extensive ICT for Local Bodies initiatives.\n\nIn 2014, the Government of Pakistan created the National Information Technology Board (NITB) under the Ministry of Information Technology & Telecom to enable a digital eco-system for Government services to the citizens of Pakistan. NITB was formed as a result of a merger between Pakistan Computer Bureau (PCB) and Electronic Government Directorate (EGD). \n\nThe key functions identified by the NITB are:\n\nNITB rolled out an e-Office Suite across various ministries in the Government of Pakistan. While it clearly pursued efficiency gains and improved transparency, it also hoped to deliver \"efficient and cost-effective public services to citizens of Pakistan.\" The suite primarily included five modules or applications across all the ministries. Description of each module listed are: \nNITB released a high-level diagram that describes the process of transforming Federal Government agencies and ministries to e-Office environments.\n\nCriticism: NITB's roll out of the e-Office suite across almost all federal agencies is not only overly ambitious but also likely to fail. It seems to put together a lot of lofty organizational efficiency goals with a set of delivery or citizen-facing targets. In fact, most of the services NITB has provided have been largely conceptual and not sufficient concrete. The process outlines in the adoption process diagram seems devoid of any user-centric design or value proposition formulation. Instead of creating lots of MVPs (Minimum Viable Products) and taking advantage of an iterative and validated learning the process, the e-Office Suite seems to incorporate all the features and functions that various ministries and divisions may need or use. It seems to focus more on the needs of the bureaucrats and government agencies rather than the needs of the end user (citizens of Pakistan) and what services would they need that a ministry or division can provide.\n\nSri Lanka have taken some initiative actions to provide the benefits of e-government to the citizens.\n\nTo implement the principles of e-government, the Ministry of Information and Telecommunication Technologies of Thailand developed a plan for creating a modern e-services system during 2009-2014.\n\nThe next stage was the five-year project of digital government, which began in 2016 and will be completed in 2021. This project assumes that within five years, more than 80% of Thai government agencies will use electronic documents for identification.\n\nThere is the Unified State Portal of e-Government of Thailand, developed by the Ministry of Information and Telecommunications Technology in 2008.\n\nIn 2018, Thailand ranks 73rd in the UN e-government ranking. \nJordan has established its e-government program since 2002. many governmental services are provisioned online.\n\nThe e-Government was also established in Saudi Arabia, and it offers online government services and transactions.\n\nIn the United Arab Emirates, the Emirates eGovernment is designed for e-government operations.\n\ne-government shows significant advancement in Europe.\n\nArmenian e-government was established in 2004. E-government brings together all tools and databases created by Armenian state agencies and provides a user-friendly online environment for users. It includes more than twenty services and tools. Under this initiative, “Interactive Budget” and “State Non-Commercial Organisations' Financing” sections are available for the first time. There are also twenty other tools, including search engines, allowing to find the Government's and the Prime Minister's decisions, the agenda of the next cabinet sitting, information on the state purchases, the electronic tax reporting system, the online application system of the Intellectual Property Agency, the information search system of the Intellectual Property Agency, as well as the Electronic Signature and Electronic Visa (e-visa) sections. It is worth mentioning that the Electronic Signature is used in several other services when a user wants to submit an application or receive information. The Electronic Signature is universal system and is used both by the state officials and by citizens, legal entities.\n\nThis system allows companies to submit an application for obtaining or terminating licenses regarding various activities (pharmaceuticals, banking, construction, transport etc.) It also provides other services in respect of already obtained license.\n\nThe Report Acceptance System for licensed persons enables to submit any report (annually, monthly or quarterly) on licensed activities.\n\nElectronic Payment System effectively processes online payments. This application is designed specifically for charging the state fees, local fees, the administrative penalties or services provided by state and local governmental bodies. Payments can be made by Visa, Mastercard, Paypal and local Arca or Mobidram systems.\n\nThe system enables to submit application to the property cadastre and receive information on land owners, surface of a plot of land, legal status of any property. State electronic payment system is integrated within this tool. Online applications for registration of rights and restrictions and related documents may be submitted by users who have a digital signature.\n\nIn 2016 the Ministry of Justice of Armenia developed Legal Drafts' Database. It is designed particularly for publication any draft initiated by the Government or Member of Parliaments. Database can be accessed through website which provides the possibility of presenting the legal acts’ drafts to the public, organizing online discussions, and as a consequence - the active participation of representatives of civil society in law-making process. The website enables to search legal drafts, follow their further progress, and become familiar with the presented suggestions. The registered users are able to present suggestions, get informed with the \"summary paper\" of the suggestions to the draft, the adopted suggestions or the reasoning concerning the not adopted ones.\n\nThe system enables registration of legal entities, such as limited liability companies, joint-stock companies, foundations and self-employed entrepreneurs. On average it takes twenty minutes to register a company depending the entity's type. State fee can be paid through E-Payments system. The system also allows users to track the submitted applications and search existing companies as well as purchase full information about any company, including information about shareholders.\n\nThis system allows users to find cases, search for laws of Armenia, as well as to follow the schedule of court hearings.\n\nThe system is designed for public announcements.The state authorities are obliged to make public announcements under certain circumstances stipulated by law.\n\nThis tool simplifies tax declaration process for both tax payers and tax authorities. Any natural person or legal entity can submit tax declaration verifying it by electronic signature.\n\nOnline submission of patent and trademark applications using electronic signature.\n\nThis application enables the process of obtaining visa through electronic application. Visas are issued within two days.\n\nThe system allows users to verify identity of the user and protect submitted application. Any resident of Armenia, either natural person or legal entity, can obtain electronic signature and use it while submitting application through E-Government systems.\n\nEstonia has established its e-government program with the support of the European Union since 1996 with the introduction of e-Banking. In 2017, Estonia described its digital inclusiveness under the name of e-government with a wide array of e-services in government affairs, political participation, education, justice, health, accommodation, police, taxes, and business.\n\nEstonia conducts legally binding i-Voting at national and local elections and offers e-Residency to foreigners.\n\nEstonia shares its knowledge base of developing e-society and consults various states in all continents via e-Governance Academy () and has trained over 3,500+ officials from more than 60 countries and led or participated in more than 60 international ICT projects on the national, local and organizational levels.\n\nEstonia is widely recognized as e-Estonia, as a reference to its tech-savvy government and society. e-Estonia is recognized as the leader in implementing blockchain technology into its e-government infrastructure.\n\nThe “E-Government” framework was established in accordance with the “National Strategy on Information-Communication Technologies in the Development of the Republic of Azerbaijan (2003-2012)” and implemented in the framework of the “E-Azerbaijan” Program. The project is aimed to increase the convenience and efficiency of the activity of state agencies, simplify interactions between population, businesses and government agencies, contribute to creating new citizen-official relations framework and ensure transparency and free flow of information.\n\nThe main components of the e-government infrastructure are integrated network infrastructure for state bodies, E-government portal, E-government gateway, State register of information resources and systems, e-signature, e-document circulation and e-government data center (under preparation).\n\nState portal www.e-gov.az was established to facilitate citizens in benefiting from e-services provided by government agencies on a ‘single window’ principle with the combination of services. Through e-government portal citizens can use more than 140 e-services of 27 state agencies. In addition, a gateway between government agencies was established in order to ensure mutual exchange of information, and most of state agencies are connected to this infrastructure. The gateway allows users to efficiently use the existing government information systems and a safe contact between them, issuing requests and rendering e-services, liberates citizens from providing same information or documents which are already available in information databases.\n\nThe e-government portal egov.kz was launched in 2012 as part of Kazakhstan's effort to modernize how citizens access government services and information. The egov.kz mobile app was recognized as best app in the GovTechioneers competition at the 2017 World Government Summit in Dubai.\n\nOn the Federal Law \"On providing state and municipal services\" (2010), the strategy on development of Information Society in the Russian Federation, approved by the President (2008), the Federal target programme \"Electronic Russia\" (2002 – 2010 years), approved by the Government (2002), the State Programme \"Information Society\" (2010), the Procedure on development and approval of administrative regulations execution of public functions (public services), approved by the Government (2005), the concept of administrative reform in the Russian Federation in 2006 - 2010 respectively, approved by the Government (2005), on other orders, resolutions and acts in the Russian Federation was created electronic government (or e-government).\n\nThe main target on creating of e-government lies in the field of providing the equal opportunities for all the Russians in spite of their living place and their incomes and make more effective system of public administration. So e-government are created for reaching the useful system of public management accommodating the individual interests of every citizen by participation through ICTs in public policy-making.\n\nNowadays Russian e-government includes such systems as:\n\n1. The United interagency Interacting system using for providing of state and municipal services, exchange of information and data between participants of interagency interacting, quick approval of state and municipal decisions, etc.\n\n2. The United system for authentication and authorization providing evidence of the rights of all participants of e-government.\n\n3. United portal of state and municipal services and functions which are the \"single window\" for all information and services assured by government and municipals.\n\nThe portal of public services is one of the key elements of the project to create \"electronic government\" in the country. The portal provides a single point of access to all references on state and municipal services through the Internet and provides citizens and organizations the opportunity to receive these services electronically. Monthly visits by users of the public services portal range between 200,000 and 700,000. For example, citizens are now able to get or exchange a driver license through this portal.\n\n4. Head system providing utilization of electronic signature.\n\nOther systems located on cloud services.\n\nToday Russian e-government elements are demanded in the spheres of e-governance, e-services (e-health, e-education, e-library, etc.), e-commerce, e-democracy (web-election, Russian public initiative).\nBy the United Nations E-Government Survey 2012: E-Government for the People Russia became one of the 7 emerging leaders in e-government development, took 9th place in rating of e-government development in largest population countries, took 8th rank in Top e-participation leaders, after Norway, Sweden and Chile, Advancing 32 positions in the world rankings, the Russian Federation became the leader of e-government in Eastern Europe. Evolution of ICT in the Russian Federation provided the raising of Russia in e-government development index to the 27 place.\n\nThe main coordinating government body in matters of e-government is , which was established on June 4, 2014. \n\nThe beginning of the state policy of the development of the information society was the adoption in 1998-2006 of the Laws of Ukraine \"On electronic documents and electronic document circulation\", \"On the national program of informatization\", \"On the electronic digital signature\" and a number of state acts related to informatization. Later, the Law of Ukraine “On the Basic Principles of the Information Society in Ukraine for 2007-2015”, “On Information Protection in Information and Telecommunication Systems” and a number of other legislative acts aimed at concretization and specification of these laws were adopted. This law emphasized the use of information and telecommunication technologies to improve public administration, relations between the state and citizens. The next stage of e-government development began in 2015 after the adoption of the Agreement of parliamentary factions of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine (in 2014) and the adoption of the Development Strategy \"Ukraine - 2020\", which was approved by Decree of the President of Ukraine dated January 12, 2015 (No. 5/2015).\n\nIn 2018, Ukraine ranks 82nd in the UN e-government ranking. \n\nThe current Clerk of the Privy Council – the head of the federal public service has made workplace renewal a pillar of overall public service renewal. The key to workplace renewal is the adoption of collaborative networked tools. An example of such a tool is GCPEDIA – a wiki platform for federal public servants. Other tools include GCconnex, a social networking tool, and GCforums, a discussion board system.\n\nThe election of Barack Obama as President of the United States became associated with the effective use of Internet technologies during his campaign and in the implementation of his new administration in 2009.\nOn January 21, 2009, the President signed one of his first memorandums – the Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies on Transparency and Open Government. The memo called for an unprecedented level of openness in Government, asking agencies to \"ensure the public trust and establish a system of transparency, public participation, and collaboration.\" The memo further \"directs the Chief Technology Officer, in coordination with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Administrator of General Services (GSA), to coordinate the development by appropriate executive departments and agencies [and] to take specific actions implementing the principles set forth in the memorandum.\"\n\nPresident Obama’s memorandum centered around the idea of increasing transparency throughout various different federal departments and agencies. By enabling public websites like recovery.gov and data.gov to distribute more information to the American population, the administration believes that it will gain greater citizen participation.\n\nIn 2009 the U.S. federal government launched Data.gov in order to make more government data available to the public. With data from Data.Gov, the public can build apps, websites, and mashups. Although \"Gov 2.0\", as a concept and as a term, had been in existence since the mid-2000s, it was the launch of Data.gov that made it \"go viral\".\n\nIn August 2009 the City of San Francisco launched DataSF.org with more than a hundred datasets. Just weeks after the DataSF.org launch, new apps and websites were developed. Using data feeds available on DataSF.org, civic-minded developers built programs to display public transportation arrival and departure times, where to recycle hazardous materials, and crime patterns. Since the launch of DataSF.org there have been more than seventy apps created with San Francisco's data.\n\nIn March 2009, former San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom was at Twitter headquarters for a conversation about technology in government. During the town hall, Newsom received a tweet about a pothole. He turned to Twitter co-founders Biz Stone and Evan Williams and said let's find a way for people to tweet their service requests directly to San Francisco's 311 customer service center. Three months later, San Francisco launched the first Twitter 311 service, called @SF311, allowing residents to tweet, text, and send photos of potholes and other requests directly to the city. Working with Twitter and using the open-source platform, CoTweet turned @SF311 into reality. The software procurement process for something like this would normally have taken months, but in this case, it took less than three months. The @SF311 is saving the city money in call center costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6347016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6347016", "title": "El Cortez (Las Vegas)", "text": "El Cortez (Las Vegas)\n\nEl Cortez, a hotel and casino, is a relatively small downtown Las Vegas gaming venue a block from the Fremont Street Experience and Las Vegas Boulevard. Slots, table games, and a race and sports book occupy one floor of the main pavilion. It is one of the older casino-hotel properties in Las Vegas having continuously operated at the same Fremont Street location since 1941. Primarily Spanish Colonial Revival in style, it reflects a 1952 remodel when the façade was modernized. On February 22, 2013, the structure was placed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nMarion Hicks and J.C. Grayson built El Cortez, downtown Las Vegas' first major resort, in 1941 for $245,000. The location at 6th Street and Fremont was originally considered too far from downtown, but it quickly became so profitable that Bugsy Siegel, Meyer Lansky, Gus Greenbaum and Moe Sedway bought the property in 1945 from J. Kel Houssels for $600,000. John Kell (J. Kell) Houssels, Sr. (1895–1979) had originally opened the 59-room hotel and casino before the sale to the major organized crime figures. Houssels purchased the hotel back from Siegel's group in 1946 for $766,000. In 1963, the \"Pavilion Rooms\" were added after the hotel was purchased by Jackie Gaughan. Another 15-story tower addition was completed in 1980. The 64-room Cabana Suites were completed in the former Ogden House in 2009, bringing the total room count to its current 364. Gaughan, a casino owner and operator since the early 1950s, lived in El Cortez's tower penthouse and was known to be on the casino floor almost daily. The property is one of the few casinos to have never changed its exterior façade in Las Vegas, retaining the same signage and ranch-themed architecture for over seventy years.\n\nJackie Gaughan's son Michael Gaughan ran the sports and race book in the current casino under the name \"South Point Race and Sports Book\" during the late 2000s, but the sports book is now run by Station Casinos. El Cortez has undergone several renovations, with the latest major remodeling completed in 2006. New carpet, marble flooring, gaming machines, refurbished guest rooms and an upgraded kitchen for the restaurant were added. Although only a block away from the Fremont Street Experience, the hotel is part of the newly-created Fremont East section of downtown. It has also created a main entrance off Las Vegas Boulevard (5th Street) by opening a block-long pedestrian walkway from the boulevard to the hotel's main entrance on 6th Street. El Cortez is also well known in the casino industry as the most prominent \"break-in house\" for new table-game dealers to get experience before moving onto bigger properties. The separate hotel in the back, the 100-room Ogden House, has been completely renovated into the 64-suite \"Cabana Suites\".\n\nIn 2008, Jackie Gaughan sold El Cortez and its properties to Kenny Epstein. Gaughan continued to live at the casino and still played poker in the poker room until his death on March 12, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "29775360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29775360", "title": "Euroméditerranée", "text": "Euroméditerranée\n\nEuroméditerranée is an urban renewal project underway in Marseille to create an ecodistrict in the La Joliette neighbourhood.\n\nThe project was launched in 1995 with the initiative of Robert Vigouroux, former Mayor of Marseille, and the State. The agreement for the establishment of a public agency of development was signed in 1994, working on an area of 310 hectares.\nSince 2007, \"Euroméditerranée Act 2\" extended the scope to 170 more hectares. This project is funded by the European Union, the State, the Regional Council, the Departemental Council, the urban community and the City of Marseille.\n\nThe Euroméditerranée eco-district is home to the Thassalia project, Europe’s first geothermal marine power station, which uses the waters of the Mediterranean to cool buildings in the summer and warm them in the winter.\n\nAmong the achievements of Euroméditerranée figure: the Docks renovation into offices, the renovation of the silo into a theater, the renovation of the Rue de la République, the construction of the CMA-CGM tower (33 floors, 147m tall). The budget of the project amounts to €7 billion investment, of which €5 billion of private investment.\n"}
{"id": "54028064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54028064", "title": "European Academy of Management", "text": "European Academy of Management\n\nThe European Academy of Management (EURAM), founded in 2001, is a learned society dedicated to the advancement of the academic discipline of management in the Europe. It is a member of the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management network. EURAM runs the \"European Management Review\", a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by John Wiley & Sons, annual conferences for business and management scholars, and training programmes for PhD students, Post-Docs, Research Directors, and Business School Executives.\n\nIt is an organization associated with the Academy of Management since inception and also with the European Institute for Advanced Studies in Management.\n\nThe European Academy of Management (EURAM) was founded in 2001 and its head office is in Brussels, Belgium. The first EURAM Annual Conference was titled \"European Management Research: Trends and Challenges\", and it was organised at the IESE Business School in Barcelona, Spain. EURAM has continued to develop programs and activities to accompany members throughout their professional career life-cycle. Additional initiatives include the creation of the European Management Review in 2003; the Doctoral Consortium started in 2006; Strategic Interest Groups launched in 2009; the European Directors of Research program started in 2009; and the junior faculty program, the EURAM Early Career Colloquium, launched in 2010. \n\n\n\nAt EURAM, Special Interest Groups are organised networks of researchers focused on a specific subfields of management scholarship. Launched in 2009, SIGs are run by members and organize workshops, seminars, conferences throughout the year. The SIGs also organise dedicated tracks at the annual EURAM conferences.\n\nCurrently there are 13 standing SIGs at EURAM:\n\nEuropean Management Review is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal published by John Wiley & Sons on behalf of the European Academy of Management. The journal is abstracted and indexed by Current Contents/Social & Behavioral Sciences, Social Sciences Citation Index, Scopus, ProQuest databases, and EBSCO databases. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has an increased 2016 impact factor of 1.333, ranking it 121th out of 191 journals in the category \"Management\".\n"}
{"id": "4604719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4604719", "title": "Fulton Center", "text": "Fulton Center\n\nFulton Center is a transit center and retail complex centered at the intersection of Fulton Street and Broadway in Lower Manhattan, New York City. The name also refers to the $1.4 billion project by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), a public agency of the state of New York, to rehabilitate the New York City Subway's Fulton Street station. The work involved constructing new underground passageways and access points into the complex, renovating the constituent stations, and erecting a large station building that doubles as a part of the Westfield World Trade Center mall.\n\nThe project, first announced in 2002, was intended to improve access to and connections among the New York City Subway services stopping at the Fulton Street station. Funding for the construction project, which began in 2005, dried up for several years, with no final approved plan and no schedule for completion. Plans for the transit center were revived by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. The project used to be referred to as the Fulton Street Transit Center, but was re-branded the Fulton Center in May 2012 because of a heightened emphasis on retail. The complex officially opened on November 10, 2014, along with the adjacent Dey Street Passageway.\n\nThrough the Dey Street Passageway, the complex connects to the World Trade Center, the Westfield World Trade Center mall, PATH station, and observation deck, and provides connections to the Chambers Street–World Trade Center/Park Place/Cortlandt Street () and WTC Cortlandt () stations, as well as the PATH's World Trade Center station. Westfield Corporation operates the retail space as an extension of the Westfield World Trade Center, a block to the west.\n\nThe Fulton Center features a high-visibility Transit Center with entrances on Broadway between Fulton Street and John Street, and it connects the via the underground Dey Street Passageway running east-west under Dey Street. Ove Arup and Partners served as the prime consultant of the entire project. The Fulton Center cost US$1.4 billion, almost twice the original budget of $750 million.\n\nThe major elements of the Fulton Center project included the renovations of the Fulton Street stations along the IRT Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line and the IRT Lexington Avenue Line. During the latter's renovation, new entrances were opened at the corner of Broadway and Maiden Lane for the northbound platform, and at Cortlandt Street and Broadway for the southbound platform. The mezzanine serving the Fulton Street station on the IND Eighth Avenue Line, which previously consisted of several ramps on either side of Nassau Street, was straightened. During these renovations, the entire complex was made ADA-accessible. Ten escalators and fifteen elevators were installed, as well as two ADA accessible public restrooms on the concourse and the street levels.\n\nA new station building, the Fulton Building, was constructed along the east side of Broadway between Fulton and John Streets. The new station required the demolition of the Girard Building and the former Childs Restaurant Building, and incorporates the landmark Corbin Building at the corner of Broadway and John Street. It was nearly canceled at one point, but was saved in 2009 through funds from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. This portion of the project was part of a master lease to lease over 60,000 square feet of space. The Fulton Center opened on November 10, 2014, seven years behind schedule and $650 million over budget. Owing to the Fulton Center's use of renewable energy sources and energy-conservation features, the complex was awarded a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Silver certification in March 2016, becoming the first subway station in New York City to receive such a rating.\n\nIn addition to work on the four linked Fulton Street stations, the Dey Street Passageway, located outside the subway system's paid area, was built under Dey Street. It connected the Fulton Street station complex to the Cortlandt–Church Streets station, serving the .. A new entrance building was constructed on the southwest corner of Broadway and Dey Street, providing direct access to the Dey Street passageway. It opened alongside the rest of the Fulton Center in November 2014, and an extension to the World Trade Center Transportation Hub opened in May 2016. There were plans for a free transfer between the Cortlandt–Church Street station and the at the World Trade Center station; however, this plan was removed due to cost overruns. , the connection was again slated to be built and the passageway opened with newly-rearranged turnstiles. The connection opened on December 29, 2017, after a reconfiguration of the respective stations' fare areas. A separate transfer to the at WTC Cortlandt, outside the fare controls of either the Cortlandt–Church/World Trade Center or Fulton Street stations, was opened on September 8, 2018.\n\nThere is also a connection to the World Trade Center station on the , the WTC Cortlandt station on the , and the World Trade Center Transportation Hub and PATH service. These connections are not depicted.\nAfter several pieces of transit infrastructure in Lower Manhattan were destroyed or severely damaged during the September 11, 2001, attacks, officials proposed a $7 billion redesign of transit in the neighborhood. This included the Fulton Street Transit Center, the South Ferry/Whitehall Street terminal further downtown, and the reconstruction of the West Side Highway. The most important of these projects was the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's proposed terminal for PATH trains at the World Trade Center site, which was destroyed when the World Trade Center collapsed. A preliminary plan for the new terminal included situating it under Church Street, near the site of the former Hudson Terminal and close to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA)'s Broadway–Nassau/Fulton Street station. The new terminal would also contain direct connections to the subway; previously, World Trade Center had been served by three different subway stations at Cortlandt–Greenwich Streets, Cortlandt–Church Streets, and Church Street between Chambers and Vesey Streets. Money was also to be allocated to study the feasibility of commuter rail service to Lower Manhattan. This would later become the canceled Lower Manhattan–Jamaica/JFK Transportation Project, which would have created a railway line between Lower Manhattan and John F. Kennedy International Airport via the Long Island Rail Road and AirTrain JFK.\n\nAs part of the rebuilding process, the Port Authority considered putting the PATH terminal at Broadway and Fulton Street. However, this was deemed to be prohibitively expensive, so it ultimately decided to put the PATH terminal near Greenwich Street, two blocks west. The MTA's project to connect the different subway stations at Broadway–Nassau/Fulton Street was approved, despite the fact that the PATH and MTA projects would not be built as part of a single project. These stations would instead be connected by a series of underground passageways, which would stretch from the World Financial Center in the west to the Fulton Street Transit Center in the east, spanning over half of Manhattan's width at this point. The Fulton Street Transit Center would also contain a large retail building at Broadway and Fulton Street, serving as the main entrance to that complex. The Fulton Street project would include new passageways, entrances, and elevators to provide transfers between the area's subway stations and increase the capacity of the existing station complex at Broadway–Nassau/Fulton Streets.\n\nIn February 2003, New York Governor George Pataki announced a $5 billion plan for rebuilt transit infrastructure at South Ferry, Fulton Street, and the World Trade Center. By April 2003, the MTA had released preliminary plans for a $750 million transit hub at Fulton Street, connecting six subway stations. In December 2003, the Federal Transit Administration allocated a combined $2.85 billion to the three Lower Manhattan transit projects. The PATH station received $1.7 billion in aid, while the Fulton Street Transit Center received $750 million and the South Ferry Terminal received $400 million.\n\nCompared with other subway stations' renovations, the Fulton Street Transit Center's funding was secure because the project was financed using money from the September 11 recovery fund. After funding for the transit center had been secured, the project's environmental impact statement was released in 2004. The project was still undergoing revisions as of mid-2005, and was to be completed by October 2005. Construction was set to begin later that year.\n\nFunding problems began in June 2005, when the original plans were cut back. The projected cost of the Fulton Street Transit Center had grown by $75 million, to $825 million. The design had been delayed to May 2006, and the proposed completion date was now December 2008. In March 2006, the land under the Corbin Building was taken for the proposed transit center by eminent domain. A block to the north, the MTA began the process of evicting and relocating 148 store owners near the site of the transit center's main building. The budget of real-estate acquisition also rose from $50 million to $157 million. This cost increase was a key factor in the ballooning costs of the transit center over the next several years.\n\nBy May 2006, the budget was nearing $850 million, and the planned completion date was delayed to June 2009. Despite the $45 million budget overrun, the MTA denied that the Fulton Center plan would be curtailed. In November 2006, the MTA announced the creation of a free transfer between the Cortlandt–Church Streets and World Trade Center stations, which would cost $15 million more. By February 2007, the projected cost had risen to $888 million, and the MTA pledged to pay for the $41 million gap with its own money. The completion date was now projected as October 2009.\n\nMeanwhile, the costs of other MTA Capital Construction projects were rising as well. The issue peaked in January 2008, when the MTA announced that three other capital projects (the 7 Subway Extension, the Second Avenue Subway, and East Side Access) were facing a combined cost overrun of $1 billion. To remedy the overrun, plans for the Fulton Center's main building had to be downsized: instead of being a structure with a large dome, the headhouse would now be a simple stainless-steel building with a smaller dome. The project, excluding the main building, was now expected to cost $903 million. The main building would cost another $250 million, if built. The cost overruns were attributed to the fact that the MTA had received a single, $870 million bid for one phase of construction, more than twice the $408 million the MTA had originally set aside for that phase. The date of completion was now set for 2010, and the MTA had ordered a 30-day review of the Fulton Center plan. Around the same time, the neighboring World Trade Center Hub's costs also rose from $2.2 billion to $3.4 billion.\n\nThe funding reductions also resulted in several design cutbacks. The free transfer from the Cortlandt–Church Streets and World Trade Center stations was dropped from the plans, but was later restored using MTA funds before being dropped and restored again. The passageway underneath Dey Street was narrowed from . The MTA deleted the main building from the plan to reduce costs. In March 2008, the MTA announced that it would spend $295 million on an as-yet-undetermined structure at the location of the main building. One proposal included constructing the main building with a performing arts center, rather than a dome, on top. By this time, the MTA lacked several billion dollars in funding for its 2010–2014 capital spending plan. The MTA did not rule out the possibility of converting almost the entire plot into a public plaza and constructing a simple subway entrance from the plaza. \"New York Post\" columnist Steve Cuozzo called the project \"The Folly on Fulton Street\", a word play on \"Fulton's Folly\", which was used to describe Robert Fulton's steamboat 200 years before. In June 2008, Chris Ward, executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, prepared a report for New York Governor David Paterson regarding the Fulton Street and World Trade Center projects' cost overruns.\n\nDespite the Fulton Street Transit Center's financing deficit, the Federal Transit Administration refused to fund the cost overruns associated with the Fulton Center. However, the MTA used 2009 federal stimulus money to help fund the project. In January 2009, the MTA received $497 million in additional stimulus money, bringing the total cost of the Fulton Street Transit Center to $1.4 billion. As part of an exhibit on the city's major public construction projects, the MTA described the status above ground: \"Final details are being worked out for the above ground building. The 115-year-old Corbin Building, at the corner of Broadway and John Street, will be restored and incorporated into the transit center entrance design. The transit center will be a focal point with a vibrant design and a visible portal to downtown and the transit system below\".\n\nWith funding secured in 2009, MTA Capital Construction released a plan to open various stages of the Fulton Center project. Much of the below-ground connections, such as the IND mezzanine, were to begin construction first. The project rehabilitated two of the four stations in the original station complex. An intricate system of ramps was replaced by two new mezzanines, and new entrances were opened.\n\nThe Fulton Center project involved three station rehabilitation projects: the refurbishment of the Seventh Avenue Line's platform at the eastern end of the complex, served by the ; the rehabilitation of the Lexington Avenue Line's platforms under Broadway, served by the ; and the renovation of Cortlandt–Church Streets, served by the . The former two stations had never been renovated, while Cortlandt Street had been renovated in the 1990s before being damaged during the September 11 attacks. The renovations of the Eighth Avenue Line platforms, served by the , and the Nassau Street Line platforms, served by the , had been completed in the 1990s.\n\nThe first completed project of the Fulton Center, the rehabilitation of the Seventh Avenue Line platform, started in 2005. The narrowness of this platform required the addition of extra circulation elements, such as stairs. This project was completed by November 2006.\n\nAlthough not part of a rehabilitation, the Cortlandt Street station was first closed in 2005 for the construction of the Dey Street Passageway, the underpass and the construction of the East Bathtub that supports the eastern towers of the new World Trade Center complex that was being rebuilt. With the conclusion of the Dey Street Passageway construction, the uptown platform was opened first, in November 25, 2009. The southbound platform was rehabilitated and reopened on September 6, 2011 with a new underpass, to coincide with the upcoming opening of the National September 11 Memorial & Museum.\n\nThe station at the western end of the complex was rehabilitated beginning in 2008. Prior to renovations, there was no direct access to the southern end of the northbound platform, causing overcrowding at this location. The renovation started after the entrances at Maiden Lane (northbound) and Cortlandt Street (southbound) were opened to ameliorate passenger flow during subsequent station rehabilitation. Historical features, such as the tiling, were preserved. The structure was joined by the Fulton Building on the northbound platform, and the Dey Street Headhouse on the southbound platform, when they opened.\n\nAs part of the reorganization of the Fulton Street station complex, and to mitigate passenger flow congestion during the construction phases of the Fulton Center project, some new entrances opened and some existing entrances closed. In January 2007, the MTA opened a new entrance on the southeast corner of Maiden Lane and Broadway. Like the John Street entrance, it served chiefly the northbound platform of the platforms. That month, construction began on creating an analogous entrance on Cortlandt Street, just across the street from Broadway, for the southbound platform. These entrances allowed for the temporary closure of the John Street entrance (northbound platform) and the entrance by Dey Street (southbound platform) during the rehabilitation of the platforms and Dey Street Passageway-related work.\n\nOn August 1, 2011, the entrance at 135 William Street on the eastern side of the complex opened. This was completed in conjunction with the gradual opening of the transfer mezzanine. A terra-cotta mural and an iron gate from the Hotel McAlpin, both which were originally found in the original transfer passageway, were relocated to the new 135 William Street entrance. An additional entrance at 129 Fulton Street provides an elevator connecting to the platform and the mezzanine.\n\nTo allow for advanced Mezzanine work and the construction of a permanent underpass under the tunnel under Fulton Street to take place, the subway station entrance at 222 Broadway became permanently closed on October 29, 2011. In its place, a temporary entrance opened midblock between Fulton Street and John Street, inside the main building construction site. This was followed with a major realignment of the transfer passageway between the and trains. Related construction work saw the temporary closure of the entrances at Fulton Street, on the northwest (by St. Paul's Chapel) and southwest corners throughout much of 2011. Both were reopened by the first half of 2012. The entrance to Dey Street (195 Broadway), on the southbound platform, was permanently closed on May 1, 2012, for Dey Street Passageway related work and rehabilitation of the southbound platform. It was to be replaced by the Dey Street Headhouse, across Dey Street, when it opened in late September 2012.\n\nAt the 129 Fulton Street site and the 150 William Street site are permanent entrances that provide access to the Broad Street-bound trains and the trains, respectively. There is elevator access at the 129 Fulton Street site. Other entrances include the Dey Street Passageway headhouse building (opened 2012) and the Fulton Center main building, or the Fulton Building (opened 2014).\n\nOriginally, a network of passageways and ramps loosely connected the various lines with each other, causing congestion during peak hours. The transfer mezzanine, also known as the IND mezzanine, replaced these ramps and made several adjacent entrances redundant. In January 2010, reconstruction of the transfer mezzanine over the Fulton Street IND platform resulted in traffic flow changes. The transfer passageway leading to the Broadway–Seventh Avenue Line platform at Fulton Street had previously been modified. Effectively, all transfers were made through the platform.\n\nThe stacked-staggered configuration of the platforms splits the IND mezzanine levels into two halves. The eastern half stretches from Nassau Street to William Street, from the Broad Street-bound platform to the platform. Similarly, the western half of the mezzanine stretches from Nassau Street to Broadway, from the Jamaica Center-bound platform to the platforms. Transferring passengers have to use the third-basement-level platform to navigate between the two halves of the mezzanine, since the platforms bisect the mezzanine on both the first and second basement levels.\n\nThe IND mezzanine opened in various phases. Around August 2011, the William Street end of the Eastern mezzanine opened, coinciding with the opening of the 135 William Street entrance. In October 2011, due to a major realignment of the temporary transfer passageway between the station and the station, parts of the Western Mezzanine opened as well. The realignment sent passengers through the construction site of the Fulton Building. By January 2012, the Western Mezzanine had opened to the Jamaica-bound platforms. In June 2012, an underpass under the platforms, traveling approximately under Fulton Street, re-opened and was connected to the Western Mezzanine. With the opening of the new passageway, the older underpass connecting to southbound platform was simultaneously closed. As a result, the Western Mezzanine was substantially completed. On August 2, 2012, the Broad Street-bound platform was connected to the Eastern Mezzanine. An MTA press release regarded this as the substantial completion of the entire IND mezzanine.\nTemporary transfer passages opened to the trains from the Mezzanine in October 2011, in conjunction with the closing of the entrance across the street on Fulton Street. In June 2012, this passageway was again replaced, this time by a permanent passageway underneath Fulton Street that adjoined the western mezzanine directly. The original temporary transfer passageway was part of an underground concourse connecting the Fulton Center and the Dey Street Passageway, and also served a crossunder for the two platforms.\n\nThe Dey Street Passageway headhouse opened on October 8, 2012. It serves as an entrance for the southbound trains, and as the main access point for the long-anticipated Dey Street Passageway.\n\nThe main building for the Fulton Center project, referred to as the Fulton Building by the MTA in its Requests for Proposals in August 2012, is a three-story building clad in glass, with an oculus atop that draws natural light into the main building and the uptown platform of the station. It is designed by Nicholas Grimshaw and James Carpenter Design Associates. Its construction replaced four buildings along the eastern side of Broadway, which were demolished during 2007.\n\nThe Fulton Building was nearly canceled in 2009 due to increasing costs, but was restored after $497 million in stimulus funding was allocated toward the Fulton Street Transit Center. The foundations of the main transit complex was completed in August 2010. Full scale superstructure work on the main building began in January 2011, and steel work concluded in October 2011. In November 2014, the Fulton Building opened to the public.\n\nSky Reflector-Net, which was commissioned by the MTA Arts & Design (the art program of the MTA), was installed in 2014 in the Fulton Center transit hub. Located at the center of the oculus, the Sky Reflector-Net uses hundreds of aluminum mirrors to provide natural sunlight from a skylight to an underground area as much as four stories deep. This is the first intentional skylight in the New York City Subway system since the 1945 closure of the original City Hall station.\n\nBilled by MTA officials as New York's \"Next Great Public Space\", the Fulton Building was designed with a strong focus on retail, with more than of retail space as part of the Westfield World Trade Center shopping mall. Retail stores are featured on concourse level \"C2\" (the same level as the IND Mezzanine), concourse level \"C1M\" (the same level as the platforms), and the ground floor. In addition, the MTA presentation at the stakeholders' meeting in October 2011 indicates the plausible presence for market cafes on the ground floor, \"destination restaurants and bars\" on the second floor and an anchor-branded tenant on the third and top floor of the building.\n\nThe addition of retail space was an impetus for the May 2012 name change from \"Fulton Street Transit Center\" to a simpler \"Fulton Center\" to attract leases. The MTA looked to private companies to manage the retail section of the Fulton Center, attempting to change it to a shopping destination, as well as a transit center. The retail spaces are intended to provide additional revenue for the MTA in the form of real estate.\n\nIn July 2012, the MTA made a motion to seek proposals from various companies for a master lease for 65,000 square feet of retail and commercial space. This space includes the Corbin Building, and the Dey Street Passageway and headhouse. The MTA made a Requests for Proposals (RFP) on August 2, 2012. Proposals were by November 2, 2012. According to the MTA's RFP, the main building is called the \"Fulton Building\" to disambiguate from other related structures, such as the Corbin Building.\n\nThe Corbin Building is a landmark building located adjacent to the Fulton Building. Originally slated to be demolished, the building was instead restored as a part of the Fulton Center project and incorporated to the overall transit complex. It also provides street-level retail as well as of commercial office space.\n\nThe building was underpinned during the rehabilitation of the platforms and the transit building construction. Design elements and the historic decor and facade were preserved as a part of this project. The building as a whole is integrated into the project, with escalators at John Street descending to the platforms and the Fulton Building. Retail space returned to the ground floor when the Corbin Building reopened in December 2012.\n\nFor upper floors, an interstitial structure was built for the height of the building, between the original building and the Fulton Center. This interstitial structure allows the Corbin Building to be made compliant to modern building regulations. A new freight elevator, as well as two passenger elevators, were installed in the interstitial building. Additionally, the interstitial unit gives added support to the Corbin Building. However, the interstitial building is considered to be a part of the Fulton Building.\n\nThe Fulton Center project initially included upgrades to five subway stations:\n\nThe World Trade Center PATH station, as well as the following two New York City Subway stations, is also connected to the complex via the World Trade Center Transportation Hub. This also includes:\n\nDespite the presence of a passageway linking the Fulton Street complex and the Cortlandt Street BMT station, there is no free connection between the two stations. There are still paid transfers to the Fulton Street complex and the two Cortlandt Street stations. The connection is still possible via an out-of-system transfer through the WTC Transportation Hub. According to the MTA's Final Environmental Impact Statement, the Dey Street Passageway is intended to provide a seamless connection from the Fulton Center to the WTC Transportation Hub and Brookfield Place (formerly the World Financial Center) without the need to cross Church Street and Broadway, both of which are busy traffic arteries in Lower Manhattan. By keeping it outside of the paid area, it would maximize pedestrian flow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11137224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11137224", "title": "Genesis HealthCare", "text": "Genesis HealthCare\n\nGenesis HealthCare is a provider of short-term post-acute, rehabilitation, skilled nursing and long-term care services. As of January 2017, Genesis operates approximately 500 skilled nursing centers and assisted/senior living residences in 34 states across the United States. Genesis also supplies rehabilitation therapy to approximately 1,700 healthcare providers in 45 states and the District of Columbia. Genesis has approximately 80,000 employees. Genesis HealthCare is headquartered in Kennett Square, Pennsylvania.\n\nGenesis Health Ventures was established by Michael R. Walker & Richard R. Howard in 1985 with acquisition of nine centers. Between 1985 and 1998, Walker grew Genesis Health Ventures from a $32 million to a $2.4 billion public company through the acquisition of nursing homes and services such as rehabilitation therapy, diagnostic testing, respiratory therapy, and pharmacy.\n\nIn 1999, the federal government made cuts to Medicare, which at that time funded virtually all the care for individuals admitted to Genesis Centers from hospitals. Genesis Health Ventures sought Chapter 11 protection in 2000. In 2001, the company reorganized and reemerged from bankruptcy.\n\nIn 2003, Genesis Health Ventures separated the company's in-patient care and pharmacy divisions. As part of the separation, Genesis Health Ventures adopted the NeighborCare pharmacy division's trade name, and spun off the company's Genesis ElderCare Skilled Nursing Centers and Assisted Living and Independent Living Communities, as well as Genesis Rehabilitation Therapy Services, into a new entity – Genesis HealthCare Corporation.\n\nNeighborCare, which traded on NASDAQ as NCRX, was acquired by Omnicare in 2005.\n\nOn July 13, 2007, Formation Capital and JER Partners completed the acquisition of Genesis HealthCare Corporation. The total enterprise value of the transaction was approximately $2.0 billion. Genesis' shareholders received $69.35 in cash for each share of Genesis' common stock that they held.\n\nOn April 1, 2011, Health Care REIT, Inc. (now Welltower) completed the $2.4 billion acquisition of substantially all of the real estate assets of privately owned Genesis HealthCare, which was previously announced on February 28, 2011. In June 2012, Genesis HealthCare announced its plans to acquire Sun Healthcare Group.\n\nOn December 1, 2012 Genesis completed the acquisition of Sun Healthcare Group, Inc. (Sun) (NASDAQ GS: SUNH). Sun Healthcare was formally headquartered out of Irvine, California. It operated skilled nursing facilities, assisted and independent living centers, and behavior health centers in 23 states. Sun also owned SunDance Rehabilitation, CareerStaff Unlimited and SolAmor Hospice. Genesis acquired Sun for $8.50 per share. The aggregate amount of the merger was approximately $215, excluding closing costs and the repayment of Sun debts.\n\nGenesis Healthcare merged with Skilled Healthcare Group Inc. which was based in Foothill Ranch, California on February 2, 2015. The combined company operated 500 skilled nursing and assisted/senior living communities in 34 states and more than 1,800 rehab therapy sites in 47 states. It reported over 90,000 employees with a combined revenue of $5.5 billion. The company changed its ticker from (NYSE: SKH) to (NYSE: GEN).\n\nIn 2015 Genesis HealthCare acquired 24 skilled nursing facilities from Revera, Inc.\n\n\nGenesis operates approximately 450 Skilled Nursing Facilities and Assisted/Senior Living Communities across the nation located in 30 states. Additionally, Genesis Rehab Services provide therapy to approximately 1,700 locations across 45 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "50708946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50708946", "title": "Genome Project-Write", "text": "Genome Project-Write\n\nThe Genome Project - Write (also known as GP-Write) includes sub-projects like Human Genome Project-Write (HGP-Write), formally announced on 2 Jun 2016, is an extension of Genome Projects (aimed at reading genomes since 1984), now to include development of technologies for synthesis and testing of many genomes of microbes, plants and animals. This leverages two decades of work on Synthetic Biology and Artificial gene synthesis.\n\nThe newly created GP-Write project will be managed by the Center of Excellence for Engineering Biology, a new nonprofit organization. The researchers expect that the ability to synthesize large portions of many genomes would result in many scientific and medical advances.\n\nTechnologies for constructing and testing Yeast artificial chromosomes, synthetic yeast genomes (Sc2.0) and virus/phage-resistant bacterial genomes have industrial, agricultural and medical applications.\n\nThe human genome consists of three billion DNA nucleotides, which have been described in the Human Genome Project - Read program, 95% completed in 2004. \nExamples of goals of GP-Write include making cell lines that are resistant to all viruses and synthesis assembly lines to test variants of unknown significance that arise in research and diagnostic sequencing of human genomes (which has been exponentially improving in cost, quality and interpretation).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23738274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23738274", "title": "Good Value", "text": "Good Value\n\nGood Value: Reflections on money, morality and an uncertain world is a 2009 book by Stephen Green, the Chairman of HSBC, written in response to the banking crisis.\n\nHe describes the book as \"a journey of unfinished exploration\" and suggests that deep personal and corporate values are essential for a sustainable revival of business. He suggests that \"We need to be able to look ourselves in the mirror and ask two questions about our role in the global bazaar: how is what I am doing contributing to human welfare? And why am I specifically doing it?\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5768315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5768315", "title": "Grace Church School", "text": "Grace Church School\n\nGrace Church School is a private school whose original building is located at 86 Fourth Avenue between East 10th and East 12th Streets in the East Village neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City. The school was founded in 1894 by the Grace Church as the first choir boarding school in New York City. The private day school, which much resembles the school today, began in 1934. Grace Church School's High School Division opened in 2012 and is located at 46 Cooper Square. In the 2015-16 school year, the school opened for the first time as a Junior Kindergarten through 12th grade program.\n\nIn 1947 Grace became a co-educational school and was admitted to the Guild of Independent Schools of New York City. In the following decade the school began to expand its facilities to accommodate a growing student body. From the original 16 choristers, Grace has grown to its current enrollment of more than 725 students drawn from a wide variety of ethnic, economic, and religious backgrounds.\n\nWhile the school has continued its close relationship with Grace Church, since 1972 it has been governed by an independent Board of Trustees, and it is a fully accredited member of the New York State Association of Independent Schools and the National Association of Independent Schools. Grace Church School is also a member of the National Association of Episcopal Schools. In 2006, the School became a legal entity separate from the Church, and now owns the buildings at 84-96 Fourth Avenue, including the historic and landmarked church houses Clergy House, Memorial House and Neighborhood House.\n\nThe Grace Church School's high school building is located in Cooper Square. It opened in 2011.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "49779483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49779483", "title": "International Financial Congress", "text": "International Financial Congress\n\nThe International Financial Congress (IFC) is a major annual conference dedicated to the finance industry. The event brings together heads of central and commercial banks, financial institutions, international financial organizations and financial regulatory authorities, as well as renowned experts from around the world and figures from academia and business. Since 1992, it has been held in St. Petersburg. \nBefore 2016, the event was called the International Banking Congress (IBC).\nCongress sessions are held in the form of interactive discussions, in which the most topical issues arising in the global banking and financial system are discussed.\n\nIn the autumn of 1991, the first International Banking Congress was held in Frankfurt am Main, which was attended by Anatoly Sobchak, the then Mayor of St. Petersburg, and Viktor Khalansky, who was in charge of the Main St. Petersburg Office of the Central Bank of Russia. In his speech, Sobchak suggested that the next Congress be held in St. Petersburg.\n\nAn initiative was put forward by the Central Bank of Russia, and subsequently approved by the Russian government, to approach the world's leading banking institutions with the proposal to hold the International Banking Congress in St. Petersburg.\n\nThe proposal gained support from representatives of leading banks, international banking and financial institutions, and audit firms.\n\nOn January 16, 1992, a non-governmental organization, named the Foundation for Support of the International Banking Congress, was established to facilitate the running of the congress. The organization was renamed the St. Petersburg Public Foundation for the Support of the International Banking Congress in 1998.\n\nIn April 1992, the first St. Petersburg-based International Banking Congress was held. The Congress was attended by over 350 participants from 50 countries. The Vice-Mayor of St. Petersburg was a member of the organizing committee for the first five International Banking Congress events. At present, the President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Putin is a member of the committee.\n\n"}
{"id": "9327140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9327140", "title": "International Van of the Year", "text": "International Van of the Year\n\nThe International Van of the Year is an annual award, which is made by the international transport sector. Each year an expert jury, consisting of leading, authoritative specialist journalists, selects the \"International Van of the Year\", from the new vehicles appearing on the European market.\n\nThe first receiver of the award was the Volkswagen T4, when it received the inaugural award in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47180400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47180400", "title": "Jahurul Islam (entrepreneur)", "text": "Jahurul Islam (entrepreneur)\n\nJahurul Islam (1 August 192819 October 1995) was a Bangladeshi entrepreneur. He was the founder-chairman of the \"Islam Group\". \n\nIslam was born on 1 August 1928 in Bhagalpur village of Bajitpur thana under Kishoreganj District, East Bengal, British Raj. He studied in Shararchar High School and Bajitpur High School. He completed his matriculation exams from the Ripon High School, Calcutta. He could not pursue further education due to financial constraints. He joined the C and B department as a low level government employee in 1948. \n\nIslam started his career as a contractor after leaving government service, using the experience he gained at the C and B department. In 1965 he founded Eastern Housing Ltd. During the Bangladesh famine of 1974, he opened five food kitchens to feed the poor. In 1975 he established \"Bengal Development Corporation\". His company built buildings of the Sangshad Bhaban compound, Bangladesh Bank building, Bangladesh High Court building, Bangladesh Supreme Court building, MP hostel, and major highways in Bangladesh. He established jute and furniture factories. Bengal Development Corporation received contracts for construction in Abu Dhabi, Iraq, and Yemen. In 1989 Islam founded \"Jahurul Islam Medical College and Hospital\".\n\nIslam died on 19 October 1995 in Singapore. He died from a heart attack. His son, Manzurul Islam, is the current chairman of Islam Group.\n"}
{"id": "44956137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44956137", "title": "John Chambers College of Business and Economics", "text": "John Chambers College of Business and Economics\n\nThe John Chambers College of Business and Economics is the business school of West Virginia University, a state university located in Morgantown in the U.S. State of West Virginia. The college building is in the downtown campus of the university. The college offers seven undergraduate Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) programs and one Bachelor of Science in Economics program, six master programs, and doctoral programs throughout its six departments. The college improved rankings over the past five years.\n\nThe College of Business and Economics traces its origins to the late 1940s when it awarded business administration degrees under College of Arts and Sciences. The WVU College of Commerce was created by an order of the state higher education board in November, 1951, with the first students enrolled for the first semester of the 1952-53 academic year. In 1954, the college was accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business. In 1957 the Master of Science in Industrial Relations was the first master's degree program in the college. The first Ph.D. program was established in 1965 in economics. In 1971 the College of Commerce was renamed the College of Business and Economics. On November 9, 2018 the college was renamed the John Chambers College of Business and Economics. \n\nThe college offers the following undergraduate, graduate, and doctoral programs:\n\n\nThe College of Business and Economics offers seven masters programs and one certificate program:\n\nIn addition, the College of Business and Economics offers MBA Dual degrees:\n\nThe College of Business and Economics offers Ph.D. Economics and a Ph.D. in business administration programs with concentrations in accounting, finance, management, and marketing. \n\nThe B&E has several student organizations or clubs for students to participate in. Examples include:\n\n\nThe college is committed to disseminating its research, expertise, and know-how to the region and to society at large. The college is home to the following centers. These centers include: \n\nThe College has received favorable business school rankings. These include:\n\n2016 Online MBA ranked in Top 40 for fourth straight year \n2015 Best Business Schools #92 \n2015 Best Online Graduate Business Programs #23 \n\nBest Undergraduate Business School Programs #124 \n\nThe College of Business and Economics is considered to be a selective business school. The admission rate for the previous year was around 50%. Applicants are required to take GMAT exam before admission. The admission package includes a resume, TOEFL results for International Student, letters of recommendation, and a statement of purpose.\n\nUndergraduate applicants are offered admissions to The B&E by direct admit business, general admit business or pre-business and economics admit. After first semester of sophomore year, students are generally allowed to declare a degree program.\n\nWest Virginia University M.B.A. controversy\n\n"}
{"id": "42089413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42089413", "title": "Kila Haoda", "text": "Kila Haoda\n\nKila Haoda (born 21 September 1949) is a Papua New Guinean politician. He was the Governor of Central Province from 2012 to 2017.\n\nHaoda was the human resources manager for New Britain Palm Oil Limited and operated a supermarket and liquor store in Kimbe before returning to his home province to build the successful March Girls Resort at Gaire. He was an unsuccessful candidate for Kairuku-Hiri District at the 2007 election. He contested the Central Provincial seat at the 2012 election and ousted Governor Alphonse Moroi; initially elected as an independent, he immediately joined the governing People's National Congress.\n\nHaoda serves on the Appointments Permanent Committee and the Justice Referral Committee in the National Parliament, and also serves as chairman of the Central City Development Project Steering Committee. In August 2012, he questioned the benefits of the PNG Gas project for his province, expressing concern about insufficient infrastructure gains. He initially supported Powes Parkop's proposed \"buai ban\" in September 2013, but had come out strongly against it by February 2014. He complained of \"undisciplined officers\" that \"continue to tarnish the name of our discipline force\" after an incident where he claimed police enforcing the ban had \"terrorised and humiliated\" women and children.\n\nHaoda initiated an education scheme in Central Province to assist students with school fees. In September 2014, he signed a memorandum of agreement to build a new satellite city on 300 hectares of farmland outside Port Moresby in conjunction with private developers. In the same month, he unveiled a new five-year development plan for the province, reported to be the first of its kind in Central Province. In 2014, he became the inaugural patron of the Central Province Premier Rugby Football League competition, which began to compete for the Kila Haoda Cup. In October 2014, he announced his opposition to the Trans-Island Highway project to connect Port Moresby with the rest of Papua New Guinea, citing the potential for social problems and conflict over land. In December 2014, he signed a memorandum of understanding with Eda Ranu for the Port Moresby water corporation to supply water to a number of villages in Central Province.\n\nIn July 2015, Haoda initiated a provincial microfinance scheme in conjunction with MiBank, in order to support small and medium enterprises and \"to stop the free handout mentality\". He also pledged to implement an \"e-government\" system in an ongoing partnership with the Malaysian government. In December 2015, he announced his opposition to a proposal for a new military base at Gabadi over land issues. He is recontesting his seat for the People's National Congress at the 2017 election.\n\nHe was defeated by Robert Agarobe at the 2017 election.\n"}
{"id": "10434797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10434797", "title": "Las Vegas Club", "text": "Las Vegas Club\n\nLas Vegas Club was a casino in Las Vegas, Nevada established in 1930, and demolished in 2017.\n\nJohn Wisner originally bought the property on the corner of Main and Fremont where the Las Vegas Club now stands, at a 1905 land auction for $1,750 and built the Overland Hotel. In 1911 the Overland burnt to the ground and was rebuilt on the same location.\nThe Overland briefly became Frank Donovan's Chatterbox Club and Talk of the Town Bar.\nThe Las Vegas Club opened in 1930. The owner was J. Kell Houssels who installed the first neon sign on a hotel gambling establishment in 1931. It was only the second neon casino sign in the city.\nThe Las Vegas Club was originally on the south side of Fremont Street, at 21-23 Fremont, midway between Main and 1st Street. It was right next to the Northern Club casino, which became the La Bayou casino.\nIn 1949, J. Kell Houssels Sr. owner of the Las Vegas Club moved it across the street to 18 Fremont street, the site of the Overland Hotel, eventually expanding to its present location at the corner of Fremont and Main. \nHoussels then erected the famous Las Vegas Club sign on site, the tallest sign in town. The Overland Hotel continued to operate above the Club.\nIn 1961, Jackie Gaughan, Mel Exber and Larry Hazzlewood bought the Las Vegas Club and Houssels became majority shareholder in the Tropicana.\n\nOn December 6, 2002, owner Jackie Gaughan agreed to sell the Las Vegas Club and three other casinos, including the Plaza casino and Gold Spike casino, to Barrick Gaming. Barrick was in partnership with the Tamares Group.\n\nJanuary 2007 saw the opening of a new poker room in the casino.\n\nIn March 2007, Tamares announced that it was considering converting the property into a high-rise condo-hotel. This failed to happen, and in April 2013, the Las Vegas Club closed its hotel tower, leaving the casino open. The possibility of a future renovation of the hotel was hinted at, but never occurred.\n\nIn May 2015, the Las Vegas Club announced its intent to open a 13,810-square-foot pharmacy on the eastern side of its casino. Those plans changed, in light of the August 14, 2015, announcement of the casino's sale to Derek and Greg Stevens, owners of the nearby D and Golden Gate casinos.\n\nAfter the sale, The Las Vegas Club closed at midnight on August 19, 2015. The building along with the former Mermaids Casino and Glitter Gulch strip club were demolished over the course of 2017 to make way for a new resort expected to open in 2020.\n"}
{"id": "37640517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37640517", "title": "Marcelo Claure", "text": "Marcelo Claure\n\nMarcelo Claure is a Bolivian-American businessman and executive chairman and former CEO of Sprint Corporation. He was succeeded in the role of CEO by industry veteran, Michel Combes. He also serves as COO of SoftBank Group. He is also a wireless industry distribution entrepreneur and co-founder of Brightstar Corp. Since its founding in 1997, Brightstar has grown into an enterprise with $10.5 billion in gross revenue, with local presence in approximately 50 countries, on six continents. On August 5, 2014, he was selected to replace Dan Hesse as CEO of Sprint Corporation (Effective August 11, 2014). The announcement was made on August 6, 2014, coinciding with Bolivia's independence day.\n\nHe spent two years living in Guatemala, his family moved to Morocco and then to the Dominican Republic before returning home to La Paz, Bolivia, where he spent most of his childhood. He attended the American Cooperative School in La Paz, graduating in 1989. Later that year, he left La Paz to attend what was then the University of Lowell, in Lowell, Massachusetts. He subsequently transferred to Bentley University, in Waltham, Massachusetts, graduating in 1993 with a Bachelor of Science in Economics and Finance.\n\nAfter graduation, Claure returned to La Paz and joined the Bolivian Football Federation as International Marketing Manager.\n\nIn 1995, he returned to the United States and bought USA Wireless, a cellular retailer. He grew and expanded the company before selling it one year later. In 1996, Claure became President of Small World Communications, a California-based communications and distribution company. He led the company for two years before re-locating to Florida to start Brightstar in 1997.\n\nBrightstar was founded in Miami in 1997, as a distributor and service provider to the wireless industry with a focus on the Latin American market. The company opened offices in Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and the Caribbean. In 2000, the company entered distribution agreement with Motorola for all of Latin America. This was followed by the launch of subsidiaries in Argentina, Uruguay, Venezuela, Ecuador, Peru and El Salvador. A US Brightstar subsidiary opened in 2001, based in Chicago, and later expanded into Asia, followed by Europe, the Middle East and Africa.\n\nBrightstar operates in approximately 50 countries and all six continents around the globe. \"Forbes Magazine\" recognized it as one of the largest privately held companies in the US, listing it 55th in 2013. \"Inc. Magazine\" identified Brightstar as one of the fastest-growing companies in the U.S., placing it sixth in its annual Inc. 500/5000 listing in 2009. It has also been recognized by HispanicBusiness.com as the largest Hispanic-owned business in the U.S. in 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012 and 2013.\n\nOn October 18, 2013, Brightstar Corp. (\"Brightstar\") and SOFTBANK CORP. (\"SoftBank\") (TSE: 9984) announced a definitive agreement for SoftBank to invest $1.26 billion in Brightstar. (The transaction closed in January 2014.)\n\nIn December 2013, Brightstar announced plans to acquire 20:20 Mobile in Europe. The transaction closed in February 2014 and Brightstar now owns facilities in the UK, Spain, Hungary, Portugal, Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden, providing products and services across 13 European countries.\n\nAlso, in February 2014, Brightstar announced plans to acquire the Commerce & Services Division of SoftBank Group. The transaction closed in April 2014 and as a result Brightstar became the primary global distributor for the SoftBank Selection brand mobile products, which feature more than 765 mobile accessories. The new company is expected to grow Brightstar’s presence in Japan and increase the company’s revenues by $3 billion on an annualized basis.\n\nClaure became Sprint Corporation President and CEO on Aug. 11, 2014, and has served on the Sprint board of directors since January 2014. He is also a member of the board of directors of SoftBank Group, as well as the board of Arm, a leading chip technology developer.\n\nClaure is chairman of CTIA.\n\nIn 2008, Claure created BAISA (Bolivar Administracion, Inversiones y Servicios Asociados, S.R.L.), to acquire and operate Club Bolivar, the most popular soccer Club in Bolivia and the ninth-ranked team in Latin America.\n\nClaure has also previously served on FIFA's (Federation Internationale de Football Association's) Committee for Fair Play and Social Responsibility.\n\nIn 2018, Claure - along with David Beckham (global soccer icon); Simon Fuller (entertainment entrepreneur and manager); Jorge and Jose Mas (leaders of Miami-based telecom and construction giant MasTec); and Masayoshi Son (visionary technologist and founder and CEO of SoftBank Group) – were awarded a Major League Franchise for Miami, Florida. MLS Commissioner Don Garber announced the expansion team on January 29 in a ceremony at The Arsht Center. The event was transmitted on live TV and attended by over 1700 people including athletes, fans, celebrities, local and international business leaders, political figures and members of the national and international media. \nMiami’s new futbol team will play in a privately-financed, 25,000-seat state-of-the-art stadium in downtown Miami. The stadium will be designed by Populous and is expected to be built by 2021. \n\nWorld Economic Forum (WEF) Young Global Leader.\nErnst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year Award and lifetime member of Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year Hall of Fame. \nHispanic Businessman of the Year by the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. \nGlobal Telecoms Business \"Forty Under Forty\" Leaders; \n\"Hispanic Business Magazine\", Entrepreneur of the Year; \n\"Hispanic Magazine\", Top Hispanic Entrepreneurs; LISTA, CEO of the Year; América Economía, Award of Excellence; \"PODER Magazine\", Top Hispanic Entrepreneur; BN Americas, Hall of Fame; \"Wall Street Journal\", CEO Council Member and The Group of Fifty (G-50) Member.\n\nClaure married in 2005 and together, the couple have three daughters. He also has two children from a previous marriage.\n\nClaure is Catholic.\n\nTogether with Nicholas Negroponte, he is a founding member of One Laptop Per Child, an organization focused on empowering the world's poorest children through education by providing them with a rugged low-cost laptop.\n\nIn an effort to help high school students across the U.S. reach their full potential, Marcelo created the 1Million Project. Sprint Corporation will connect up to 1 million disadvantaged students who lack the internet access they need at home to complete their homework, search for jobs and apply to college. Each participating student will receive a device and free high-speed internet access for up to four years. \n"}
{"id": "31582420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31582420", "title": "Mark Chang Mun Kee", "text": "Mark Chang Mun Kee\n\nMark Chang Mun Kee (; born 1965) is a Malaysian businessman and the founder of MOL AccessPortal and JobStreet.com. He is the Chief Executive Officer of JobStreet.com, a position he has retained since the company was formed. He also serves on the boards of Vitrox Technologies, Innity Corporation Berhad and 104 Corporation, Taiwan. In 1988, he acquired a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Texas in 1988 and later attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he was awarded a Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering in 1990.\n\nHe once worked with Kendall International as a process engineer(1990), manufacturing manager (1992) and finally the regional director of sales and marketing for Malaysia (1994). After years of deep immersion in the world of the Internet, he began his dot.com journey with the establishment of MOL Online Sdn Bhd (currently MOL AccessPortal) in 1995, which was Malaysia's first commercial website, offering portal services. Its most profitable section, online job listings, was then spun off into JobStreet.com today.\n\nChang also serves as the Penang State Advisor for Persatuan Usahawan Muda Malaysia (PUMM), as well as an advisor in the AllStars program. Additionally, he is also known to be a mentor to Khai Yin, the founder of GoodPlace.my.\n"}
{"id": "52891519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52891519", "title": "Noritake Kinashi", "text": "Noritake Kinashi\n\nKinashi's wife is actress Narumi Yasuda. His cousin is Liberal Democratic Party Suginami lawmaker Morisho Kinashi.\n\nKinashi had seven solo exhibitions by 2013, his style of painting is abstract based on the colour red, sketching letters in landscapes, and still life drawings with simple colour expression. While using his exhibitions using the interactive method of the internet, he can also handle character designs in video games.\n\nDelivery\n (except guest appearance programmes)\n\nRegular programmes\nOnly for clarification (excluding guest appearance programmes)\nIn his entertainment career he is in the centre of conte, his high performance skills are bought and appeared in numerous dramas and films. However, from the time he became the age of forty, he also played serious, middle-aged roles.\n\nJapanese dubbing\nIn 2004 Kinashi held stages alone. The contents are free talk with songs, contests and guests.\n"}
{"id": "52148393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52148393", "title": "Nualphan Lamsam", "text": "Nualphan Lamsam\n\nNualphan Lamsam (; ; born 21 March 1966), also known as Madame Pang after her nickname, is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Muang Thai Insurance, as well as Chairwoman of Port Football Club and manager of the Thailand women's national football team.\n\nShe is the daughter of Photipong Lamsam, Advisory Committee Democrat Party, and Yupa Lamsam a major shareholder of Muang Thai Insurance Plc. Nualphan has a sister Wannaporn Phornprapa, the Managing Director of P Landscape Co. and a brother Sara Lamsam, the President & CEO of Muang Thai Life Assurance plc. She is the fifth generation descendant of Lamsam family and a cousin of Banthoon Lamsam, the CEO and Chairman of Kasikornbank.\n\nNualphan graduated from Patumwan Demonstration School, Srinakharinwirot University, Bachelor of Marketing, Faculty of Commerce and Accountancy, Chulalongkorn University and a Master of Management, Boston University USA.\n\nNualphan first marriage was with Dr. Vachara Phanchet, Chairman of Sittipol Sales co. and German Auto co. They had one daughter, Nuanwan Phanchet. Nualphan and Dr. Vachara divorced in early 2005. Nualphan later married with the Pol. Col. Narat Sawettananas on 19 January 2014.\n"}
{"id": "51490344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51490344", "title": "Okoroji Oti", "text": "Okoroji Oti\n\nMaazi Okoroji Oti was a local chief in Ujari, one of the nineteen villages in Arochukwu, Abia State, Nigeria. He was reputable for being a slave merchant who built the Okoroji House, a historic house in Igboland. Oral history has it that four hundred people were sacrificed to Ibini Ukpabi after his death as the head of the oracle.\n"}
{"id": "8081587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8081587", "title": "Productive capacity", "text": "Productive capacity\n\nProductive capacity is the maximum possible output of an economy. According to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), no agreed-upon definition of maximum output exists. UNCTAD itself proposes: \"the productive \"resources\", entrepreneurial \"capabilities\" and production \"linkages\" which together determine the capacity of a country to produce goods and services.\" The term may also be applied to individual resources or assets; for instance the productive capacity of an area of farmland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4210339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4210339", "title": "Reduction of Hours of Work (Glass-Bottle Works) Convention, 1935 (shelved)", "text": "Reduction of Hours of Work (Glass-Bottle Works) Convention, 1935 (shelved)\n\nReduction of Hours of Work (Glass-Bottle Works) Convention, 1935 (shelved) is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1935, with the preamble stating:\nConsidering that the question of the reduction of hours of work is the sixth item on the agenda of the Session;\n\nConfirming the principle laid down in the Forty-Hour Week Convention, 1935, including the maintenance of the standard of living;\n\nHaving determined to give effect to this reduction forthwith in the case of glass-bottle works...\n\nPrior to it being shelved, the convention had been ratified by ten states.\n\n"}
{"id": "41355684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41355684", "title": "Roger Cukierman", "text": "Roger Cukierman\n\nRoger Cukierman (born 1936) is a French banker, businessman and Jewish philanthropist. He serves as the President of the Conseil Représentatif des Institutions juives de France (CRIF) and Vice President of the World Jewish Congress.\n\nRoger Cukierman was born in 1936. He received a Bachelor of Arts degree in Law and a PhD in Economics from ESCP Europe, a business school in Paris.\n\nFrom 1963 to January 1999, he worked at the Edmond de Rothschild Group. He served as its Chief Executive Officer in France from 1993 to 1999. He also served as the CEO of Israel General Bank and Israel 2000 Mutual Fund. He has served on the Boards of Directors of Club Med (), Bolloré, PEC New York, Château Margaux, Publicis, etc. He served as the Director of the Association of French Bankers, the defunct Banque Vernes, Credit Suisse Asset Management France, and the Banque privée Edmond de Rothschild ().\n\nHe serves on the Board of Directors of Cukierman & Co., an investment bank founded by his son, Edouard Cukierman.\n\nHe has written two books.\n\nHe served as President of the CRIF from 2001 to 2007. He was re-elected in May 2013. However, his reelection was criticized by some, who opined he was too old to represent French jewry properly. He has expressed his concern about Qatar's economic ties to France in light of its relationship with the Muslim Brotherhood. He has also said he fears Marine Le Pen, President of the National Front, might win the French presidential election in 2017, as she would seek to \"stifle minority views\". However, in an interview in February 2015 he claimed that Le Pen \"cannot be faulted personally\" for anti-Semitism, prompting criticism from Nazi hunter Serge Klarsfeld.\n\nHe has also served as Vice President of the European Jewish Congress and the Alliance Israélite Universelle. He currently serves as Vice President of the World Jewish Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "346264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=346264", "title": "Résumé", "text": "Résumé\n\nA résumé or resume is a document used by a person to present their backgrounds and skills. Résumés can be used for a variety of reasons, but most often they are used to secure new employment.\n\nA typical résumé contains a \"summary\" of relevant job experience and education, as its French origin implies. The résumé is usually one of the first items, along with a cover letter and sometimes an application for employment, which a potential employer sees regarding the job seeker and is typically used to screen applicants, often followed by an interview.\n\nThe curriculum vitae (CV) used for employment purposes in the UK (and in other European countries) is more akin to the résumé—a shorter, summary version of one's education and experience—than to the longer and more detailed CV that is expected in U.S. academic circles.\n\nGenerally, the résumé is substantially shorter than a CV in English Canada, the U.S. and Australia.\n\nIn South Asian countries such as India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh, biodata is often used in place of a résumé.\n\nAs has been indicated above, the word résumé comes from the French word meaning \"summary\". Leonardo da Vinci is credited with the first résumé, though his \"résumé\" takes the form of a letter written about 1481–1482 to a potential employer, Ludovico Sforza. For the next roughly 450 years, the résumé continued to be a mere description of a person, and included their abilities and past employment. In the early 1900s, résumés listed things like weight, height, marital status, and religion. It was not until 1950 that the résumé evolved into something more than words written on scraps of paper. By then, résumés were considered very much mandatory, and started to include information like personal interests and hobbies. It was not until the 1970s, the beginning of the Digital Age, that résumés took on a more professional look in terms of presentation and content.\n\nIn many contexts, a résumé is typically limited to one or two pages of size A4 or letter-size, highlighting only those experiences and qualifications that the author considers most relevant to the desired position. Many résumés contain keywords or skills that potential employers are looking for via applicant tracking systems, make heavy use of active verbs, and display content in a flattering manner. Acronyms and credentials after the applicant's name should be spelled out fully in the appropriate section of the résumé, greater chance of being found in a computerized keyword scan. Résumés can vary in style and length, but should always contain accurate contact information of the job seeker. A recent hiring simulation by ResumeGo concluded that a two-page resume was more likely to lead to being hired than a one-page resume.\n\nA résumé is a marketing tool in which the content should be adapted to suit each individual job application or applications aimed at a particular industry. The transmission of résumés directly to employers became increasingly popular as late as 2002. Job seekers were able to circumvent the job application process and reach employers through direct email contact and résumé blasting, a term meaning the mass distribution of résumés to increase personal visibility within the job market. However, the mass distribution of résumés to employers can often have a negative effect on the applicant's chances of securing employment as the résumés tend not to be tailored for the specific positions the applicant is applying for. It is usually, therefore, more sensible to optimize the résumé for each position applied for and its keywords. In order to keep track of all experiences, keeping a 'master résumé' document is recommended, providing job-seekers with the ability to customize a tailored résumé while making sure extraneous information is easily accessible for future use if needed.\n\nThe complexity or simplicity of various résumé formats tends to produce results varying from person to person, for the occupation, and to the industry. Résumés or CVs used by medical professionals, professors, artists and people in other specialized fields may be comparatively longer. For example, an artist's résumé, typically excluding any non-art-related employment, may include extensive lists of solo and group exhibitions.\n\nRésumés may be organized in different ways. The following are some of the more common résumé formats:\n\nA reverse chronological résumé lists a candidate's job experiences in chronological order, generally covering the previous 10 to 15 years. Positions are listed with starting and ending dates. Current positions on a résumé typically list the starting date to the present. The reverse chronological résumé format is most commonly used by those who are not professional résumé writers. In using this format, the main body of the document becomes the Professional Experience section, starting from the most recent experience and moving chronologically backwards through a succession of previous experience. The reverse chronological résumé works to build credibility through experience gained, while illustrating career growth over time and filling all gaps in a career trajectory. A chronological résumé is not recommended to job seekers with gaps in their career summaries. In the United Kingdom the chronological résumé tends to extend only as far back as the applicant's GCSE/Standard Grade qualifications.\n\nA functional résumé lists work experience and skills sorted by skill area or job function.\n\nThe functional résumé is used to focus on skills that are specific to the type of position being sought. This format directly emphasizes specific professional capabilities and utilizes experience summaries as its primary means of communicating professional competency. In contrast, the chronological résumé format will briefly highlight these competencies prior to presenting a comprehensive timeline of career growth through reverse chronological listings, with the most recent experience listed first. The functional résumé works well for those making a career change, having a varied work history or with little work experience. A functional résumé is also preferred for applications to jobs that require very specific skills or clearly defined personality traits. A functional résumé is a good method for highlighting particular skills or experiences, especially when those particular skills or experiences may have derived from a role which was held some time ago. Rather than focus on the length of time that has passed, the functional résumé allows the reader to identify those skills quickly.\n\nThe hybrid résumé balances the functional and chronological approaches. A résumé organized this way typically leads with a functional list of job skills, followed by a chronological list of employers. The hybrid has a tendency to repeat itself and is, therefore, less widely used than the other two.\n\nAs the search for employment has become more electronic, it is common for employers to only accept résumés electronically, either out of practicality or preference. This has changed much about the manner in which résumés are written, read, and processed. Some career experts are pointing out that today a paper-based résumé is an exception rather than the rule.\n\nMany employers now find candidates' résumés through search engines, which makes it more important for candidates to use appropriate keywords when writing a résumé. Larger employers use Applicant Tracking Systems to search, filter, and manage high volumes of résumés. Job ads may direct applicants to email a résumé to a company or visit its website and submit a résumé in an electronic format.\n\nMany employers, and recruitment agencies working on their behalf, insist on receiving résumés in a particular file format. Some require Microsoft Word documents, while others will only accept résumés formatted in HTML, PDF, or plain ASCII text.\n\nAnother consideration for electronic résumé documents is that they are parsed with natural language processors. Résumé parsers may correctly interpret some parts of the content of the résumé but not other parts. The best résumé parsers capture a high percentage of information regarding location, names, titles, but are less accurate with skills, industries and other less structured or rapidly changing data. Résumés written in a standard format are more likely to be correctly interpreted by résumé parsers, and thereby may make the candidate more findable.\n\nOne advantage for employers to online résumés is the significant cost saving compared to traditional hiring methods. Another is that potential employers no longer have to sort through massive stacks of paper.\n\nAs the Internet becomes more driven by multimedia, job-seekers have sought to take advantage of the trend by moving their résumés away from the traditional paper and email media.\n\nVideo, infographic, and even Vine résumés have gained popularity, though mainly in the creative and media industries.\n\nThis trend has attracted criticism from human resources management professionals, who warn that this may be a passing fad and point out that multimedia-based résumés may be overlooked by recruiters whose workflow is designed only to accommodate a traditional résumé format.\n\nMany résumé development agencies offer résumé evaluation services wherein they evaluate the résumé and suggest any necessary changes. Candidates are free to either do those changes themselves or may take help of the agency itself. Some career fields include a special section listing the lifelong works of the author: for computer-related fields, the softography; for musicians and composers, the discography; for actors, a filmography.\n\nKeeping résumés online has become increasingly common for people in professions that benefit from the multimedia and rich detail that are offered by an HTML résumé, such as actors, photographers, graphic designers, developers, dancers, etc. Job seekers are finding an ever-increasing demand to have an electronic version of their résumé available to employers and professionals who use Internet recruiting. Online résumé distribution services have emerged to allow job seekers to distribute their résumés to numerous employers of their choice through email.\n\nIn some sectors, particularly in the startup community, use of traditional résumé has seen a consistent decline. While standalone résumés are still used to apply for jobs, job-seekers may also view their résumés as one of a number of assets which form their personal brand and work together to strengthen their job application. In this scenario, résumés are generally used to provide a potential employer with factual information (e.g., achievements), while the social media platforms give insight into the job-seekers' motivations and personality in development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30235906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30235906", "title": "Springpad", "text": "Springpad\n\nSpringpad was a free online application and web service that allowed its registered users to save, organize and share collected ideas and information. As users added content to their Springpad accounts, the application automatically identified and categorized it, then generated additional snippets based on the types of objects added—for example, listing price comparisons for products and showtimes for movies.\n\nSpringpad was also available as apps on the iPad, iPhone and Android that synchronized with the Web interface. Springpad was bundled on new Toshiba notebook computers through a Web application subscription service.\n\nOn May 23, 2014, Springpad announced that it would cease operations on June 25, 2014. The company then allowed users to export their data (as json and read-only html formats), or to automatically migrate it to Evernote accounts before the expiration date.\n\nSpringpad users could use the main site interface which uses HTML5 from most browsers or use the smartphone app to capture notes, tasks, or lists which were then added to the user's \"My Stuff\", the user's personal database or collection. Additionally Springpad let users look up items of interest which were then automatically categorized based on type or manually categorized by the user. Category types included recipes, movies, products, restaurants and wine. Events could also be added to Springpad, and if the user used Google Calendar, they could opt to sync the event to it.\n\nIn addition to the smartphone app and site, Springpad could be used via browser extension for Google Chrome, or the Springpad Clipper, a bookmarklet to analyze webpages and clip relevant information from them—for example, the ingredients needed for a recipe—or to add the site as a normal bookmark. Another way users could add content to their Springpad \"My Stuff\" was by emailing entries to an email address specified on Springpad registration.\n\nSpringpad's smartphone apps could be used to scan barcodes to identify products, save them to the user's \"My Stuff\", and automatically generate additional product information and links. The mobile app could also save images taken with the phone's camera, and locate nearby businesses.\n\nWith most of the content added to a user's \"My Stuff\", relevant news, useful links and other helpful information could be viewed. Users could also attach additional notes and images to content they had already saved, and could add reminders and alerts which could be emailed to the user or texted to their phone. Springpad also added alerts to its own Alerts section for relevant news, deals or coupons for specific products users added.\n\nFor additional organization, anything added to Springpad could also be tagged. Users could also add entries to \"Notebooks\" to separate content by projects, or any other way they wished. Each Notebook included a section called a \"Board\", which acted as a pin board where users could \"pin\" content they'd added to the Notebook, allowing them to visually lay out items. If the user added a map to the Board and had entries that included an address, Springpad could automatically point out entries on the map.\n\nBy default, everything added to Springpad was private. However users could change the privacy settings for each of the types of items added, decide to make specific items public and shareable on Facebook and Twitter, add them to their public page, or keep them private but links to them with specific people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1533342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1533342", "title": "TED (conference)", "text": "TED (conference)\n\nTED Conferences LLC (Technology, Entertainment, Design) is a media organization that posts talks online for free distribution under the slogan \"ideas worth spreading.\" TED was conceived by Richard Saul Wurman in February 1984 as a conference which has been held annually since 1990. TED's early emphasis was on technology and design, consistent with its Silicon Valley origins, but it has since broadened its repertoire to include talks on many scientific, cultural, and academic topics. It is owned by Chris Anderson, a British American businessman, through the Sapling foundation.\n\nThe main TED conference is held annually in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada at the Vancouver Convention Centre. Prior to 2014, the conference was held in Long Beach, California, United States. TED events are also held throughout North America and in Europe and Asia, offering live streaming of the talks. They address a wide range of topics within the research and practice of science and culture, often through storytelling. The speakers are given a maximum of 18 minutes to present their ideas in the most innovative and engaging ways they can. Past speakers include Bill Clinton, Sean M. Carroll, Elon Musk, Ray Dalio, Cédric Villani, Stephen Hawking, Jane Goodall, Al Gore, Temple Grandin, Gordon Brown, David Cameron, Billy Graham, Richard Dawkins, Bill Gates, Dolph Lundgren, Bono, Google founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin, and many Nobel Prize winners. TED's current curator is the British former computer journalist and magazine publisher Chris Anderson.\nSince June 2006, TED Talks have been offered for free viewing online, under an Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivatives Creative Commons license, through TED.com. , over 2,600 TED Talks are freely available on the website. In June 2011, TED Talks' combined viewing figure stood at more than 500 million, and by November 2012, TED Talks had been watched over one billion times worldwide. TED Talks given by academics tend to be watched more online while art and design videos tend to be watched less than average.\n\nTED was conceived in 1984 by architect and graphic designer Richard Saul Wurman, who observed a convergence of the fields of technology, entertainment, and design (that is, \"TED\"). The first conference, organized by Harry Marks and Wurman in the same year, featured demos of the compact disc, co-developed by Philips and Sony and one of the first demonstrations of the Apple Macintosh computer. Presentations were given by famous mathematician Benoit Mandelbrot and influential members of the digerati community, like Nicholas Negroponte and Stewart Brand. The event was financially unsuccessful; it took six years before the second conference was organized.\n\nFrom 1990 onward, a growing community of \"TEDsters\" gathered annually at the event in California State University Monterey Bay, until 2009, when it was relocated to Long Beach, California due to a substantial increase in attendees. Initially, the speakers had been drawn from the fields of expertise behind the acronym TED, but during the nineties, the roster of presenters broadened to include scientists, philosophers, musicians, religious leaders, philanthropists, and many others.\n\nIn 2000, Wurman, looking for a successor at age 65, met with new-media entrepreneur and TED enthusiast Chris Anderson to discuss future happenings. Anderson's UK media company Future bought TED. In November 2001, Anderson's non-profit The Sapling Foundation (motto: \"fostering the spread of great ideas.\") acquired TED from Future for £6m. In February 2002, Anderson gave a TED Talk in which he explained his vision of the conference and his future role of curator. Wurman left after the 2002 conference.\n\nIn 2006, attendance cost was $4,400 per person and was by invitation only. The membership model was shifted in January 2007 to an annual membership fee of $6,000, which includes attendance of the conference, club mailings, networking tools, and conference DVDs. The 2018 conference was $10,000 per attendee.\n\nIn 2014, the conference was relocated to Vancouver.\n\nTED is currently funded by a combination of various revenue streams, including conference attendance fees, corporate sponsorships, foundation support, licensing fees, and book sales. Corporate sponsorships are diverse, provided by companies such as Google, GE, AOL, Goldman Sachs, and The Coca-Cola Company, among others. Sponsors do not participate in the creative direction of the event, nor are they allowed to present on the main stage, in the interests of independence.\n\nThe TED staff consists of about 180 people headquartered in New York City and Vancouver.\n\nThe TED Prize was introduced in 2005. Until 2010, it annually granted three individuals $100,000 and a \"wish to change the world\". Each winner unveils their wish at the main annual conference. Since 2010, in a changed selection process, a single winner is chosen to ensure that TED can maximize its efforts in achieving the winner's wish. In 2012, the prize was not awarded to an individual, but to a concept connected to the current global phenomenon of increasing urbanization. In 2013, the prize amount was increased to $1 million. TED Prize winners in previous years:\nTED Conference commissioned New York artist Tom Shannon to create a prize sculpture to be given to all TED Prize winners.\nThe sculpture consists of an diameter aluminum sphere magnetically levitated above a walnut disc.\n\nIn 2005, Chris Anderson hired June Cohen as Director of TED Media. In June 2006, after Cohen's idea of a TV show based on TED lectures was rejected by several networks, a selection of talks that had received the highest audience ratings was posted on the websites of TED, YouTube, and iTunes, under Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-NoDerivs 3.0. Initially, only a handful of talks were posted, to test if there was an audience for them. In January of the next year, the number of TED Talks on the site had grown to 44, and they had been viewed more than three million times. On the basis of that success, the organization pumped hundreds of thousands of dollars into its video production operations and into the development of a website to showcase about 100 of the talks.\n\nIn April 2007, the new TED.com was launched, developed by design firm Method. In subsequent years, the website has won many prizes, among which seven Webby Awards, iTunes' \"Best Podcast of the Year\" (2006-2010), the Communication Arts Interactive Award for \"Information Design\" in 2007, the OMMA Award for \"video sharing\" in 2008, the Web Visionary Award for \"technical achievement\" in 2008, The One Show Interactive Bronze Award in 2008, the AIGA Annual Design Competition (2009), and a Peabody Award in 2012.\n\nAs of January 2018, over 2600 TED talks had been posted. Every week 5-7 new talks are published. In January 2009, the then number of videos had been viewed 50 million times. In June 2011, the number of views totaled 500 million, and on November 13, 2012, TED reached its billionth video view. Chris Anderson in an interview in March 2012:\nIt used to be 800 people getting together once a year; now it's about a million people a day watching TED Talks online. When we first put up a few of the talks as an experiment, we got such impassioned responses that we decided to flip the organization on its head and think of ourselves not so much as a conference but as \"ideas worth spreading,\" building a big website around it. The conference is still the engine, but the website is the amplifier that takes the ideas to the world.\n\nIn March 2012, Netflix announced a deal to stream an initial series of 16 two-hour shows, consisting of TED Talks covering similar subjects, from multiple speakers. The content was made available to subscribers in the US, Canada, Latin America, the UK, and Ireland. Hosted by Jami Floyd, \"TED Talks NYC\" debuted on NYC Life on March 21, 2012.\n\nIn 2005, under Anderson's supervision, a more internationally oriented sister conference was added, under the name TEDGlobal. It was held, in chronological order: in Oxford, UK (2005), in Arusha, Tanzania (2007, titled TEDAfrica), in Oxford again (2009 and 2010), and in Edinburgh, UK (2011, 2012, and 2013). In 2014, it was held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. Additionally, there was TED India, in Mysore (2009) and TEDGlobal London in London (2015). TEDGlobal 2017 was held again in Arusha, Tanzania and it was curated and hosted by Emeka Okafor.\n\nTED's European director (and curator of TEDGlobal) is Swiss-born Bruno Giussani.\n\nTED Translators started as TED Open Translation Project in May 2009 and aims to \"[reach] out to the 4.5 billion people on the planet who don't speak English\", according to TED Curator Chris Anderson. The OTP utilizes crowd-based subtitling platforms to translate the text of TED and TED-Ed videos, as well as to caption and translate videos created in the TEDx program (with its technology partner dotSUB until May 2012, and then with open source translation tool Amara). At the time of the launch, 300 translations had been done by 200 volunteer transcribers in 40 languages. In May 2015, over 70,000 sets of subtitles in 107 languages had been completed by (an all-time total of) 38,173 volunteer translators.\n\nThe project contributed to a significant increase in international visitors to TED's website, with traffic from outside the US growing 350 percent, 600 percent growth in Asia, and more than 1000 percent in South America.\n\nMembers have several tools dedicated to knowledge management, such as the OTP Wiki OTPedia, Facebook groups, or video tutorials.\n\nTEDx are independent TED-like events, which can be organized by anyone who obtains a free license from TED, agreeing to follow certain principles. TEDx events are non-profit but may use an admission fee or commercial sponsorship to cover costs. Similarly, speakers are not paid. They must also relinquish the copyrights to their materials, which TED may edit and distribute under a Creative Commons license.\n\nA TEDx event is organized by volunteers from the local community, and just like TED events, it lacks any commercial, religious, or political agenda. Its goal is to spark conversation, connection, and community.\n\nAs of January 2014, the TEDxTalks library contained some 30,000 films and presentations from over 130 countries. As of October 2017, the TEDx archive surpassed 100,000 talks. In March 2013, eight TEDx events were organised every day; raised up from five in June 2012, the previous year, in 133 countries. TEDx presentations also include live performances, which are catalogued in the TEDx Music Project. In 2011, TED began a program called \"TEDx in a Box\" that allows people in developing countries to hold TEDx events. TEDx also expanded to include TEDxYouth events, TEDx corporate events, and TEDxWomen. TEDxYouth events are independent programs set up for students roughly between 7–12 grades. These events usually have people closer to the age of the students and sometimes show TED Talks. According to TEDxSanta Cruz, \"as of 2015, over 1,500 [TEDx events] have been scheduled all over the world\". TEDx events evolved over a period of time and events like TEDxBeaconStreet created TEDx Adventures for participants where participants sign up for free, hands-on experiences in their local communities, led by an expert.\n\nSince 2015, TEDxHyderabad is being conducted in India every year, with its 3rd edition conducted in September 2017. As of 2017, TED Talks airs as a television programme in Jamaica on CVM Television.\n\nTED Fellows were introduced in 2007, during the first TEDAfrica conference in Arusha, Tanzania, where 100 young people were selected from across the continent. Two years later, during TEDIndia, 99 Fellows were recruited, mainly from South Asia. In 2009, the Fellows program was initiated in its present form. For every TED or TEDGlobal conference, 20 Fellows are selected; a total of 40 new Fellows a year. Each year, 20 past Fellows are chosen to participate in the two-year Senior Fellows program (in which they will attend four more conferences).\n\nAcceptance as a Fellow is not based on academic credentials, but mainly on past and current actions, and plans for the future. Besides attending a conference free of charge, each Fellow takes part in a special program with mentoring by experts in the field of spreading ideas, and he or she can give a short talk on the \"TED Fellows\" stage. Some of these talks are subsequently published on TED.com. Senior Fellows have additional benefits and responsibilities.\n\nTED-Ed is a category of TED talks which are short animated lessons aimed at children. It creates explanatory animation videos on various concepts. TED-Ed lessons are created in collaboration with educators and animators. Current advisers for Ted-Ed lessons include Aaron Sams, Jackie Bezos, John Hunter, Jonathan Bergmann, Sir Ken Robinson, Melinda French Gates, and Salman Khan.\n\nTEDMED is an annual conference concerned with health and medicine. It is an independent event operating under license from the nonprofit TED conference.\n\nTEDMED was founded in 1998 by TED's founder Ricky Wurman. After years of inactivity, in 2008 Wurman sold TEDMED to entrepreneur Marc Hodosh, who recreated and relaunched it. The first event under Hodosh's ownership was held in San Diego in October 2009. In January 2010, TED.com began including videos of TEDMED talks on the TED website.\n\nThe second Hodosh-owned edition of TEDMED took place in October 2010, also in San Diego. It sold out for a second year and attracted notable healthcare leaders and Hollywood celebrities.\n\nIn 2011, Jay Walker and a group of executives and investors purchased TEDMED from Hodosh for $16 million with future additional payments of as much as $9 million. The conference was then moved to Washington, DC.\n\nTEDWomen is a three-day conference. Established in 2010, TEDWomen features speakers focused on women-oriented themes, including gender issues and reproductive health. There are over 130 TEDWomen Talks available to watch on the TED website. Past speakers include former president Jimmy Carter, Hillary Clinton, Sheryl Sandberg, Madeleine Albright, Nancy Pelosi and Halla Tómasdóttir, among others.\n\nTEDYouth talks are aimed at middle school and high school children and feature information from youth innovators.\n\n\nFrank Swain, a deaf journalist, refused to participate in a TEDx event without getting paid. He said that it is unacceptable that TED, which is a non-profit organization, charges attendees $6,000 but cannot afford to pay anything to their speakers.\n\nSpeakers at the independently-organized TEDx talks may not be paid; speakers at the official, yearly, TED Conference are compensated for their talks.\n\nSarah Lacy of \"BusinessWeek\" and \"TechCrunch\" wrote in 2010 that TED attendees complained of elitism from a \"hierarchy of parties throughout the LA-area with strict lists and security\" after the sessions. She gave TED credit for making talks free online or live streamed.\n\nDisagreements have also occurred between TED speakers and organizers. In her 2010 TED Talk, comedian Sarah Silverman referred to adopting a \"retarded\" child. TED organizer Chris Anderson objected via his Twitter account, leading to a Twitter skirmish between them.\n\nAlso in 2010, noted statistician Nassim Taleb called TED a \"monstrosity that turns scientists and thinkers into low-level entertainers, like circus performers.\" He claimed TED curators did not initially post his talk \"warning about the financial crisis\" on their site on purely cosmetic grounds.\n\nNick Hanauer spoke at TED University, challenging the popular belief that top income earners in America are the engines of job creation. TED was accused of censoring the talk by not posting it on the website. The \"National Journal\" reported Chris Anderson had reacted by saying the talk probably ranked as one of the most politically controversial talks they had ever run, and they needed to be careful about when they posted it. Anderson officially responded, indicating that TED only posts one talk every day, selected from many. \"Forbes\" staff writer Bruce Upbin described Hanauer's talk as \"shoddy and dumb\" while \"New York\" magazine condemned the conference's move.\n\nFollowing a TEDx talk by Rupert Sheldrake, TED issued a statement saying their scientific advisors believed that \"there is little evidence for some of Sheldrake's more radical claims\" made in the talk and recommended that it \"should not be distributed without being framed with caution\". The video of the talk was moved from the TEDx YouTube channel to the TED blog accompanied by the framing language called for by the advisors. The move and framing prompted accusations of censorship, to which TED responded by saying the accusations were \"simply not true\" and that Sheldrake's talk was \"up on our website\".\n\nTED has also been accused of censoring a presentation by Graham Hancock in which he discussed the effects of legal versus illegal drugs, by removing it from YouTube.\n\nAccording to Professor Benjamin Bratton at University of California, San Diego, TED Talks' efforts at fostering progress in socio-economics, science, philosophy, and technology have been ineffective. Chris Anderson responded that some critics have a misconception of TED's goals, and failed to recognise that TED aimed to instill excitement in the audience in the same way the speaker felt it. He stated that TED only wishes to bring news of the significance of certain topics to a large audience.\n\n"}
{"id": "12527578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12527578", "title": "Takemune Kimura", "text": "Takemune Kimura\n\nHe and chairman Hirokazu Nakamura were forced to resign in December 1997, after four former company executives were jailed for making corporate payoffs to sōkaiya racketeers. Mitsubishi Motors admitted to paying ¥23.5 million to the wife of a racketeer, ostensibly for the rental of a beach house, in a controversy which also engulfed Toshiba and Hitachi.\n\nHe was among those former executives named in 2005 in a ¥1.3 billion lawsuit filed by Mitsubishi Motors in connection with the Mitsubishi Motors recall cover up scandal, but died of bile duct cancer in 2006 before the case was resolved.\n"}
{"id": "41160925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41160925", "title": "The Atlas of Economic Complexity", "text": "The Atlas of Economic Complexity\n\nThe Atlas of Economic Complexity is a 2011 economics book by Ricardo Hausmann, Cesar A. Hidalgo, Sebastián Bustos, Michele Coscia, Sarah Chung, Juan Jimenez, Alexander Simoes and Muhammed A. Yıldırım. A revised 2014 edition is published by the MIT Press. \n\nThe book attempts to measure the amount of productive knowledge that each country holds, by visualizing the differences between national economies. The book's originality is to go beyond standard statistics by making use of “complexity statistics” of 128 countries. The book concludes with hints \"at how difficult and complex it may be for government planners to kick-start a new industry — while showing that there are new industries that will struggle to get started without help.\".\n\nThe book is accompanied by an online website which hosts interactive visualizations featured in the book.\n\nThe Atlas was a collaboration between the Center for International Development at Harvard University and the Macro Connections group at the MIT Media Lab.\n\nThe visualizations presented in the Atlas where created in The Observatory of Economic Complexity (OEC), a data visualizations engine created by Alex Simoes and Cesar A. Hidalgo in the Macro Connections group at the MIT Media Lab. The Observatory of Economic Complexity was launched in 2011. In 2013, Harvard's Center for International Development released a version of the OEC entitled the Atlas online. The Harvard version also builds on the original code base developed by Alex Simoes at the MIT Media Lab.\n\nThe data are from the following data sources, cleaned and made compatible:\n\n\nThe Atlas is distributed under a creative commons license which makes it free for non-commercial use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2146505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2146505", "title": "The Corporate Machine", "text": "The Corporate Machine\n\nThe Corporate Machine (known in Europe as Business Tycoon) is a strategy computer game from Stardock in which the goal is to create a corporation in one of four industries (automobiles, aircraft, computers, or soft drinks) and eventually dominate rival companies. To win the player must dominate the chosen market (getting 55% to 65% of the market share depending on the number of opponents). The Corporate Machine is a follow up to the game Business Tycoon, which was itself a sequel to the game Entrepreneur, all developed by Stardock.\n\nWhen starting a game, the player picks a company specialty. Three specialties are available: marketing, labor and research. Each specialty doubles productivity in that area. After picking a specialty, the start screen allows choice of how many opponents to be faced, the difficulty of the game, what map will be used (both real and fictional maps are available), starting funds, and what industry is to be competed in.\n\nThe game is started at the home site (which is randomly chosen on the map) and with one sales executive. To introduce and sell the product to other regions, the region must be investigated. This process can take from 3 to 10 weeks depending on how far they are from the sites. After an area is explored, the player will know the market leader, if opponents have sites or units there, if the region has a resource, as well as statistics like what the targeted area desires in a product, their concerns with price, and how rich the region is.\n\nThe sales executives increase market penetration (the percentage of stores carrying the product) in their regions and all regions up to two spaces away from each executive. The sales executive can be moved around the map freely by plane; however, while in transit he will not grant any penetration benefit. To gain more sales executives the profit must be increased to a certain level by the end of a year. This gets harder later on as the amount to gain a new executive increases. It is also possible to get them through the use of Direct Action Cards.\n\nThese places are the player's base of operations. Manufacturing, research, and marketing buildings can be built and upgraded. Additional sites can be purchased but they become progressively more expensive. On the player's first site there will be a sales office and a garage, but every site after will only have a sales office and everything else has to be built. Other buildings include an intelligence facility, which will generate and display information in the form of graphs. Company stores can be built at any site to decrease employee expenses (and therefore lower employee cost).\n\nTo get better performance a training center will increase employee efficiency. Employee happiness becomes a factor as well, as an unhappy employee's performance will suffer, so a recreation center will boost morale. If market leadership is lost in an area where a site is, the employees' morale will drop sharply. Marketing, manufacturing, and researching buildings can be accessed in order to make adjustments to the multiple operations within the company. Sales buildings act similarly to sales executives that cannot be moved from region to region.\n\nWhen a marketing building is built, it will be possible to hire and fire marketers. Marketing associates can be used to create marketing campaigns. As campaigns are created, marketing associate availability drops and the player is forced to build more marketing buildings in order to have more campaigns. These buildings can be upgraded to have more employees and to have more powerful marketing campaigns. Positive campaigns will boost the qualities of the player's product, or negative marketing campaigns to decrease the appeal of an opponents product. For media, there are advertisements to print, and radio and television campaigns. Marketing campaigns can be moved from region to region similarly to a sales executive.\n\nStarting with a simple garage, the player can upgrade to factories. Larger factories, and hire of additional employees, increase efficiency. Employees can be hired or fired as demand rises or falls. The production screen is where the price of the product is set. If the product is better compared to other companies then an overcharge can be made. The price should not be raised too far as demand will drop quickly if there are different companies in the same area and market leadership could be lost.\n\nThis is where scientists develop new technologies to upgrade the product. The bigger the research building, the more scientists can be hired. Four projects can be queued so the player does not have to constantly have to come back to the screen and choose new technologies. Different projects also give different bonuses, such as decreasing the cost to manufacture or increase the appeal to consumers.\n\nDifferent regions may or may not have a resource in them. There are five resource types: Labor, Government, Intelligence, Marketing, and Underworld. Every year that a region is controlled that has a resource is one resource point. Having resource points allows the play of direct action cards.\n\nThe game is started with two cards and an additional card is received every year. Direct action cards cost resources, and may have a monetary cost in addition. Cards have effects such as receiving money from the government, a research boon, revealing large blocks of regions, twisting the desires of consumers, physical destruction of competitors assets, cutting costs through illegal activities, and publicity boosts. The direct action card system has been likened to the card game .\n\nThe Corporate Machine’s popularity has decreased over the years since the game was first introduced. Recently a fan of the game (known as Money) has tried to reunite the TCM community by creating a forum, tutorials, help, and support.\n\nThe problem that the community is facing is that Stardock's TCM server (which allows users to play online) is down often, disabling internet play.\n\nThe community is considering creating a new, more reliable server on which to play (see external links).\n\nThe game received \"favorable\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "49183446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49183446", "title": "Tom Clark (industrialist)", "text": "Tom Clark (industrialist)\n\nSir Thomas Edwin \"Tom\" Clark (6 August 1916 – 14 June 2005) was a New Zealand industrialist who played a major role in a number of different enterprises. He was a patron of New Zealand's involvement in international yachting. He was the driving force in the development of Crown Lynn, a ceramics manufacturer begun by his great-grandfather Rice Owen Clark in the mid 1850s. \n\nClark was born in Hobsonville on 6 August 1916. His father was also called Thomas Edwin Clark and his mother was Margaret Clark (née Morison). He attended King's College in Auckland but was pulled out of school in 1931 during the Great Depression, as the family could not afford the school fees, and was sent to work in the family's brick works instead.\n\nClark married three times and had nine children.\n\nDuring World War II, the country started running out of cups and saucers, as they were no longer imported and had never been manufactured locally at a grand scale. Clark Jr. started experimenting with mass production and built a tunnel kiln after reading as much about it as he could. Initially, he did not know how to attach handles successfully, and the Crown Lynn Potteries brand had a reputation into the 1950s for handles that broke off. By 1948, more than half of the company's production was sold to Australia, but when the Minister of Finance, Walter Nash, changed the exchange rate by 25%, that overseas market was \"lost overnight\". The company had a supply contract with the New Zealand Railways Department, and the railway cup and saucer are regarded as \"one of the most famous Kiwi icons of the twentieth century\". The name of Crown Lynn was changed to Ceramco in 1974, and the company diversified into areas like electronics and the wholesale of appliances. The lingerie company, Bendon, was purchased at that time. The pottery part of the business was shut down in 1989 due to cheap imports. Clark retired from Ceramco in 1993, after 62 years with the business.\n\nClark was appointed a Knight Bachelor in the 1986 New Year Honours for services to manufacturing, export, sport and the community. In February 2005, Clark was presented the Key to the City from Bob Harvey, the mayor of Waitakere City.\n\nClark died on 14 June 2005 and was survived by his third wife, Patricia, Lady Clark. His funeral service was held at Holy Trinity Cathedral in Parnell, and he was cremated at Waikumete Crematorium.\n"}
{"id": "40604801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40604801", "title": "Tsvetan Vasilev", "text": "Tsvetan Vasilev\n\nTsvetan Vasilev (also spelled Tzvetan Vassilev; ; born 1959) is a former Bulgarian entrepreneur nowadays fugitive from the Bulgarian court. He was indicted for the embezzlement of billions of Corpbank with 17 other accomplices but is now sued in absentia. The reason is that he refuses to stand before the Bulgarian court and hides in Belgrade Reuters reports. Besides being sued in Bulgaria for the Corpbank affair also known as the \"Robbery of the century\", he is being investigated in Serbia for deliberate bankruptcy of a glass factory in Parachin, financed by Corpbank while the bank was still under the control of Vassilev here. According to the Serbian publication \"Blic\" Vasilev is being investigated also by the Austrian authorities.\n\nThe indictment for the syphoning off of Corporate Commercial Bank was filed by the Specialized Prosecutor’s Office on 20 July 2017, Bulgarian National TV reported here. All copies of the indictment include more than 210,000 pages. 18 persons have been indicted, including Tzvetan Vasssilev who is being sued as the mastermind of the organised crime group whose activity syphoned off the bank. The charges pressed against the convicts exceed 5,000 pages. More than 400 witnesses have been interviewed. Over 90 expert’s reports have been prepared by 27 experts. The collected evidence is in 1,360 volumes. Among the indicted is the former deputy governor of Bulgaria’s central bank (BNB), Tzvetan Gounev, along with the former CEOs of the bank.\n\nVasilev is former chairman of the supervisory board of Corporate Commercial Bank AD, the fifth bank in Bulgaria based on assets, which collapsed after a bank run in 2014. as well as its majority shareholder.\nTsvetan Vasilev is also former chairman of the supervisory board of Victoria FATA Insurance as well as the supervisory board of Vivacom, a Bulgarian telecom company. Vasilev is the recipient of the badge of honor of the University of National and World Economy in Sofia and \"Doctor Honoris Causa\" of the \"St Ivan Rilski\" University of Mining and Geology.\n\nIn July 2017, Bulgaria's prosecution indicted Vasilev with embezzlement. Since September 2014, Vasilev has been living in exile in Serbia where he faces extradition proceedings and investigation for deliberate bankruptcy \n\nTsvetan Vasilev holds a master's degree in International Economic Relations from the University of National and World Economy. After graduation, he worked as a research fellow in economics at the Center of Foreign Trade and International Markets for seven years.\n\nTsvetan Vasilev started his career in finance in 1992 when he founded his brokerage company Bromak EOOD and his investment intermediary Fina-S AD. Between 1995 and 1999 he headed the Foreign Exchange Operations and Liquidity Department of Central Cooperative Bank, and in 1997 he also became member of the bank's board of directors. In 1999 he left Central Cooperative Bank to head the Markets and Liquidity Department at CB Bulgaria Invest (now Allianz Bulgaria Commercial Bank).\n\nBetween 2000 and 2003, Vasilev served as chairman of the executive board and executive director of Corporate Commercial Bank AD. In 2003 he became its majority shareholder and chairman of its supervisory board.\n\nBy 2014, Corpbank was Bulgaria’s fourth-largest bank. The bank held an extensive portfolio of companies and was the only bank in Bulgaria investing in start-ups and entrepreneurs. Because the bank was making these types of investments that no other banks were doing, its profits and regional power grew. Until its destruction by Bulgarian regulators and the looting of its assets, Corpbank was arguably the most innovative and entrepreneurial bank in the Balkans.\n\nStarting from scratch in 2001, it was a pioneer in export financing to Bulgarian energy producers and ammunition manufacturers previously without banking options. Unlike its rivals, Corpbank also made direct investments in its clients and emerging enterprises in Bulgaria, most notably the country's leading telecom Vivacom, which it bought from creditors along with affiliates of VTB Capital in 2012. Vivacom is the leading market provider in Bulgaria for a variety of telecommunications services, including landline, mobile, Internet, radio, and TV. It has approximately 3,500 employees. Vassilev saw the opportunity and raised the capital to make the purchase.\n\nExperts claim that the Vivacom deal was amidst the most complicated ones on the Bulgarian financial market. The restructuring was approved by the European Commission and the international creditors of Vivacom. Prior to the acquisition by Vasilev and VTB Capital, Vivacom had incurred significant debt after a buyout by AIG in 2007, which subsequently sold its shares to PineBridge Investments.\n\nThe company's 2013 financial report showed considerable improvement: EBITDA increased from BGN 267 million to BGN 339 million.\n\nBecause of its growth, wealth, and power, in April 2014 one of the most influential political parties in Bulgaria (DPS) visited Vassilev. The request was simple: transfer assets for free to the \"mobster circle of DPS.\" Vassilev refused.\n\nSuddenly, by June and July 2014, Corpbank customers withdrew cash in a panic. Prior to the bank run, several Bulgarian media outlets ran stories accusing Vassilev of trying to organize the murder of a media titan who had close connections to the government, Delyan Peevski. Prosecutors raided companies affiliated with Corpbank. They confiscated financial documents from those companies. TV stations ran live feeds of the prosecution's raids. Over the course of 4 days, over 20 percent of Corpbank's assets were withdrawn in cash by depositors.\n\nAfter the bank run, Corpbank was closed for six months. Customers could not get money out. The Bulgarian government's currency board denied the Bulgarian National Bank (BNB) from creating money to pay Corpbank's customers. According to Forbes, \"Paying off depositors was therefore impossible. But reopening the bank was not an option either since that would simply re-start the run. Therefore, the BNB kept the bank \"on ice\".\n\nIn late 2014, the bank collapsed which caused the largest financial crisis in Bulgaria since the 1990s. Bulgaria’s central bank, Bulgarian National Bank, then took control over the bank. Corpbank was officially shut down and its assets taken over by the Bulgarian National Bank in July 2014. According to media reports at that time, the shutdown was due to a dispute between Vassilev and \"Bulgarian media oligarch Delyan Peevski.\"\n\nIn March 2016, the Bulgarian government (through the Commission for Illegal Assets Forfeiture (CIAF)) filed a lawsuit against Vassilev as the main shareholder of Corpbank. The lawsuit accuses Vassilev of using bank money to personally acquire assets and property. The government’s lawsuit seeks 2.2 billion leva, which is equivalent to $1.3 billion US dollars. Vassilev blames the failure of the bank on a plot hatched by his competitors and the government, ultimately to gain control over the wealthy telecommunications company Vivacom. In December 2016, Bulgarian and Swiss courts froze over 600 million levs of Vassilev’s money.\n\nThe government is also going after Vassilev and his wife, charging both with money laundering. His wife is a university professor.\n\nAfter spending some time in Austria, Vasilev is currently residing in Belgrade, Serbia (he voluntarily surrendered to Serbian police officers on 16 September 2014). In March 2015, the Appellate Court of Belgrade ruled against an extradition request by the Bulgarian authorities.\n\n\"Delyan Peevski is simply one of the main tools that the Bulgarian political mafia uses to blackmail Bulgarian business—the visible part of a rather large iceberg of corruption,\" Vassilev said in a \"Forbes\" interview. \"The political mafia is persistently trying to downgrade what happened to Corpbank to a personal conflict between Mr. Peevski and me, which is utterly untrue. I had a conflict with the political mafia ruling the country, which has been blackmailing and threatening me for many years.\"\n\nAfter inexplicably modifying charges several times, in July 2017 Bulgaria's prosecution indicted Vasilev with embezzlement along with 17 other people. According to Reuters, the case is \"seen as one of the Balkan nation’s biggest post-communist fraud investigations\".\n\nAfter Corpbank's shutdown, insolvency proceedings were officially initiated. Corpbank's clients, however, repeatedly warned that Bulgaria's authorities were violating the creditors' interests. Media reported that assets were deviated by companies and persons allegedly affiliated with Delyan Peevski and the witnesses against Vasilev.\n\nVasilev also argues that Bulgarian authorities close their eyes to irregularities in the insolvency proceedings. He was concerned about the fate of Corpbank's strategic assets, such as Vivacom. In particular, VTB Capital controlled 33% of Vivacom through their daughter company \"Crusher\" even though they were not the true owner as the price of the shares had already been paid by Corpbank's SPV \"Technological Center-Institute for Microelectronics (TC-IME)\". In murky circumstances, the shares of Vivacom were sold by VTB Capital at a devalued rate at a tender in London to Bulgarian Spas Rousev in September 2016. There is pending litigation before the London High Court for allegedly illegal seizure of the equity stake in Vivacom. Vasilev has raised concern that Vivacom's new owners would probably fail to pay the company's debt to Corpbank and would hurt the interests of the creditors in the insolvency proceedings. It has been suggested that Spas Rousev is a strawman of Delyan Peevski.\n\nIn the past, Vasilev had tried to strike a deal with a Belgian investor who was supposed to find financing for Vivacom's debt towards Corpbank, but it fell through.\n\nTsvetan Vasilev is \"Doctor Honoris Causa\" of the “St. Ivan Rilski” University of Mining and Geology. He is also recipient of the Honorary Badge of the University of National and World Economy and a member of the university’s board of trustees. He has authored a number of publications analyzing the financial challenges before Bulgaria and the European Union.\n\nVasilev is a frequent guest of various international economic forums, such as the Wroclaw Global Forum and the Black Sea Energy and Economic Summit. \n\nVasilev has sponsored many initiatives in various fields, including scientific research, development of sports, support of orphanages, renovation of churches and monasteries, etc.\n\nHe is the main benefactor of PFC Botev Plovdiv, the oldest football club in Bulgaria. Vasilev’s efforts are concentrated on the development of the football club and its junior football academy.\n\nTsvetan Vasilev has received a number of prestigious awards. He has been the recipient of \"The Banker\" newspaper \"Banker of the Year\" award for his personal contributions to the Bulgarian economy and banking several times:\nIn 2011 he received the Mr. Economy award (the grand award of the \"Economics\" magazine in Bulgaria) for overall contribution to the development of the Bulgarian economy. In 2012 Vasilev received an award for his overall contribution to the development of motorcycle sports in Bulgaria by the Bulgarian Motorcycle Federation.\n\nTsvetan Vasilev is married to Professor Antoaneta Vassileva, Dean of the International Economics and Politics Faculty of the University of National and World Economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27691164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27691164", "title": "Vincent S. Perez", "text": "Vincent S. Perez\n\nVicente (Vincent) S. Pérez Jr. (born May 26, 1958) is an environment advocate and renewable energy investor. He is the eldest of five children of Vicente Abad Pérez Sr., a former naval officer and assistant secretary for foreign affairs, and Lucila Siongco Santiago, a dietician and nutritionist by training. His sister Sheila became a missionary, a brother Benedict is a leading Asian equity sales banker in New York, another brother Raoul is an aviation expert, while a third brother Miguel is a fintech entrepreneur. He and his brothers were educated by the Jesuits at Xavier School.\n\nHe entered the University of the Philippines and was active in extra-curricular activities and became national president of AIESEC Philippines, the national chapter of the international association of business and economics students. Pérez graduated with a degree in Business Economics in 1980.\nAfter his college graduation, he took an AIESEC internship with the international department of New Jersey National Bank in Trenton New Jersey. He then earned his MBA at the Wharton School of Business of the University of Pennsylvania in 1983, majoring in international finance.\n\nUpon graduation from Wharton, he joined Mellon Bank's International Banking Department in Pittsburgh and completed their international credit training program. Pérez was assigned as a Latin American credit analyst and later as Mexico and Central America desk officer. In 1985, he joined Mellon's debt trading team, and was one of the early pioneers in emerging markets debt trading, focusing on Latin American and Philippine debt. While at Mellon, he met a fellow banker, Leigh Talmage, and they married in 1991. Both were involved with emerging debt markets and supported environmental causes. They separated in 2015 and their marriage was dissolved in 2017.\n\nIn 1986, Pérez then joined Lazard Brothers & Co in London as part of its debt trading team. The following year he moved to Lazard Frères & Co. in New York as a debt trader and investment banker. At 35, he became a general partner of Lazard Frères in 1994 as co-head with Edgar Legaspi of its Emerging Markets Group, becoming one of the highest-ranking Asian bankers on Wall Street, and was named one of the 100 Emerging Markets Superstars by Global Finance magazine. In 1994, Pérez relocated to Singapore as one of the founding managing directors of Lazard Asia.\n\nIn 1997, Pérez left Lazard to set up Next Century Partners, a private equity firm based in Singapore, teaming up with Patrick Go, Dennis Mendiola, John Wallace, and Eduardo Martinez-Miranda. They invested in companies such as Smart Communications, Del Monte Pacific, and in semiconductor assembly. Among the co-investors of Next Century Partners were Soros Fund, Mitsui, and one of the Bass Brothers of Fort Worth Texas.\n\nIn early 2001, at age 42, Pérez was recruited by his former academic adviser and newly sworn Philippine president Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo to join her administration. He served briefly as Undersecretary for Industry at the Department of Trade and Industry and as Managing Head of the Board of Investments. He then served from 2001 to 2005 in the Cabinet of Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo as Energy Secretary. As Energy Secretary, Pérez boosted energy self-sufficiency, promoted clean indigenous energy, and crafted an ambitious renewable policy framework. He dealt with solving the frequent grid-wide power black-outs that were hampering the economy then, and had to secure the oil supply of the country in the wake of the 2003 Iraq war by pursuing energy diplomacy in Asia and the Middle East. As chair of an ASEAN Energy Ministers meeting, Pérez led the ASEAN Plan of Action for Energy Cooperation for 2004-2009, setting for the first time a regional commitment to attain a minimum 10% of power mix in renewable energy. He hosted the first ministerial meeting of ASEAN plus 3 (China, Japan, and Korea) energy ministers in June 2004. After overseeing a major restructuring of the Philippine power sector and having initiated the privatization of generation assets of the state-owned National Power Corporation, he resigned in March 2005. With four years of government service, Pérez was one of the longest-serving members of President Arroyo's economic team, and was cited as the last of her \"touted trio of Wall Street-bred economic managers\".\n\nIn announcing his resignation, the Palace issued a statement from President Arroyo citing Pérez’s \"\"crucial role in implementing difficult power sector reforms, reorganizing the public energy sector, jump-starting the much-awaited privatization of Napocor, and ensuring no more Luzon-wide blackouts since May 2002\". The President underscored the \"valuable contributions made by Secretary Pérez in the country’s quest for energy independence through greater reliance on clean, indigenous and sustainable energy sources\"\", noting that since 2001, the country has increased its use of indigenous natural gas and geothermal power.\n\nSince his return to the private sector in 2005, Pérez has been active in renewable power, energy advisory, and conservation issues. He was a 2005 World Fellow at Yale University, where he lectured an MBA class on renewable power in emerging countries. Upon his return in 2006, Pérez and former energy officials Jocot de Dios and Lea Ricolcol, founded Merritt Partners, an energy advisory firm. That same year, he was invited by the owners of NorthWind, the first wind farm in Southeast Asia, to replace a minority shareholder, and that led him to a decade-long career investing in renewable energy. In 2008, together with Knud Hedeager, Gerry Magbanua, Poch Ambrosio (all former colleagues from NorthWind), and joined by Antonette de Guzman and Eduardo Martinez-Miranda, Pérez and his partners founded Alternergy, a renewable power company focused on wind and run-of-the-river hydro, and built the Pililla Rizal wind farm in partnership with Equis Funds. Subsequently, in 2013, he co-founded Solar Pacific, a solar PV developer, with Michael Lichtenfeld, a Yale colleague, and the Sant Foundation. As a private citizen, he was dispatched as Special Presidential Envoy by President Arroyo on economic diplomacy overseas. In 2009, Pérez was appointed as vice chairman of the National Renewable Energy Board.\n\nHis philanthropy is dedicated to the environment and conservation. Pérez has long been involved with World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) starting with arranging debt-for-nature swaps. He was a founding trustee of WWF-Philippines in 1996. Pérez was elected to the International Board of WWF, the governing body of the global WWF network, and a member of the boards of WWF-China and WWF-US. He was active with Malampaya Foundation, Sikat Solar Car Challenge Foundation, Stiftung Solarenergie Foundation, and in marine conservation through Asian Conservation Foundation.\n\nPérez has been an independent director of regional companies in Australia, the Philippines, and Singapore. He is an independent director of ST Telemedia, the Temasek holding company for telecom, data centers and mobile technology, and an Independent Board Adviser of Banco de Oro, the Philippines’ largest commercial bank. He is a member of the advisory boards of Bhutan Foundation, Coca-Cola FEMSA Philippines, New Zealand Trade Enterprise, Geneva-based Pictet Clean Energy Fund, and the Yale Center for Business and Environment .\n\nPérez and his family have had a long affinity with the frontier island of Palawan in western Philippines. He and his brother Miguel set up Stellar Sea Farms to raise red tilapia in sea cages in Culion. They once owned Puerco island in Green Island Bay and currently own Dilumacad or Helicopter island in El Nido. In 2000, he founded Asian Conservation Company, an innovative venture philanthropy with like-minded conservationists, and together they acquired El Nido Resorts. With a management team from Next Century Partners, they transformed it into an award-winning eco-tourism destination in Palawan by pursuing a quadruple bottom line philosophy.\n\nPérez has written a few publications: “\"Chasing Moonlight\"” narrated a sailing voyage during his 50th year; “\"Chasing Sunsets\"”, a compilation of 58 haiku poetry of his travels; and “\"Chasing Cherry Blossoms\"”, a hiking travelogue with his three brothers in Japan. He co-published “\"Voices from the Islands\"” featuring how El Nido Resorts became a showcase of sustainable tourism. Pérez is fond of the sea and used to do salt-water fishing and sailing. Together with his sailing buddy Judes Echauz, they won the Rolex China Sea Race on their yacht Subic Centennial, first in 1998 and again in 2008. Today he remains an avid scuba diver.\n"}
{"id": "30963746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30963746", "title": "Wife selling", "text": "Wife selling\n\nWife selling is the practice of a husband selling his wife and may include the sale of a female by a party outside a marriage. Wife selling has had numerous purposes throughout the practice's history; and the term \"wife sale\" is not defined in all sources relating to the topic.\n\nSometimes, a wife was sold by a husband to a new husband as a means of divorce, in which case sometimes the wife was able to choose who would be her new husband, provided she chose within a certain time period, and especially if the wife was young and sexually attractive. In some societies, the wife could buy her own way out of a marriage or either spouse could have initiated this form of divorce. Reducing a husband's liability for family support and prenuptial debts was another reason for wife sale. Taxes were sometimes paid by selling a wife and children and paying the value as the required amount, especially when taxes were too high to permit basic survival. Famine leading to starvation was a reason for some sales. Gambling debts could be paid by selling a free or slave wife. A society might not allow a woman the rights reserved to men regarding spouse sale and a society might deny her any rights if her husband chose to sell her, even a right of refusal. A divorce that was by mutual consent but was without good faith by the wife at times caused the divorce to be void, allowing her to then be sold. A husband might sell his wife and then go to court seeking compensation for the new man's adultery with the wife. By one law, adultery was given as a justification for a husband selling his wife into concubinage.\n\nA free wife might be sold into slavery, such as if she had married a serf or her husband had been murdered. Sometimes, a slave-master sold an enslaved wife. Enslaved families were often broken up and wives, husbands, and children sold to separate buyers, often never to see each other again, and a threat to sell a wife was used to keep an enslaved husband under a master's discipline. In wartime, one side might, possibly falsely, accuse the other of wife sale as a method of spying. A wife could also be treated as revenue and seized by the local government because a man had died leaving no heirs. \"Wife sale\" was sometimes the description for the sale of a wife's services; it might be for a term of years followed by freedom. If a sale was temporary, in some cases wife sale was considered temporary only in that the sold-and-remarried wife would, upon her death, be reunited with her first husband.\n\nConstraints existed in law and practice and there were criticisms. Some societies specifically forbade wife sales, even imposing death upon husbands violating the law, but a legal proscription was sometimes avoided or evaded, such as by arranging an adoption with a payment and an outcome similar to that of a sale. A society might tax or fine a wife sale without banning it. The nearness of a foreign military sometimes constrained a master in a slave sale that otherwise would have divided a family. Among criticisms, some of the sales (not of services alone but entirely of wives) have been likened to sales of horses. Wives for sale were treated like capital assets or commodities. One law made wives into husbands' chattels. Other sales were described as brutal, patriarchal, and feudalistic. Wife sales were equated with slavery. One debate about the whole of Africa was whether Africans viewed the practice as no crime at all or as against what Africans thought valuable and dear. Some modern popular songs against wife sale are vehicles for urban antipoverty and feminist organizing for rights. A story in a popular collection written by a feminist was about a suggestion for wife sale and the wife's objection to discussing it followed by no wife sale occurring. Another story is about a feminist advocate for justice in which a husband is censored or censured for selling his wife in a gamble.\n\nWife selling has been found in many societies over many centuries and occasionally into modern times, including the United States (including in Hawaii among the Japanese, among Indians in the Gallinomero, Yurok, Carolina, and Florida tribes and in the Pacific Northwest, and among natives on Kodiak Island in what is now Alaska), Colombia, England, Australia (among aborigines), Denmark (possibly), Hungary, France, Germany, India, Japan, Malaya (among Chinese laborers), Thailand (at least permitted), Northern Asia (among the Samoyads), Asia Minor (among the Yourouk), Kafiristan, Indonesia (albeit not outright), Tanganyika, Congo, Bamum, Central Africa (among the Baluba), Zambia, South Africa (among Chinese laborers), Burkina Faso, Ethiopia, Nigeria (possibly), Abyssinia, Egypt, Lombardy, ancient Rome (sometimes as a legal fiction and sometimes as actual), ancient Greece, and ancient Emar (of Syria). In Rwanda, it was the subject of a wartime accusation. Specific bans existed in Thailand, Indonesia, ancient Rome, and ancient Israel and partial bans existed in England and Japan. Wife sale was a topic of popular culture in India, the U.S., China, Scandinavia, Nepal, Guatemala, and the Dutch Indies. It has been found under several major religions, including Christianity and Islam.\n\nThe English custom of wife selling largely began in the late 17th century when divorce was a practical impossibility for all but the very wealthy. In the ritualized form, after parading his wife with a halter around her neck, arm, or waist, a husband would publicly auction her to the highest bidder. Although the custom had no basis in law and frequently resulted in prosecution, particularly from the mid-19th century onwards, the attitude of the authorities was equivocal. At least one early 19th-century magistrate is on record as stating that he did not believe he had the right to prevent wife sales, and there were cases of local Poor Law Commissioners forcing husbands to sell their wives, rather than having to maintain the family in workhouses. The English custom of wife selling spread to Wales, Scotland, Australia, and the United States before dying out in the early 20th century.\n\nIn 1781, in South Carolina, a \"Bill of Sale\" of a \"Wife and Property\" for \"Two Dollars and half Dozen Bowls of Grogg\", the buyer \"to have my said Wife for ever and a Day\", is, according to Richard B. Morris, \"unique of its kind\". According to Morris, \"although the administration of the law was in a somewhat unsettled state during this [\"British\"] military occupation [of Charleston], neither at common law nor under the marriage laws then in force in South Carolina would the sale of a wife have been valid\". The document likely was a way, wrote Morris, for \"dissolving the marriage bond\" since the state forbade divorce \"and the marriage laws of the Church of England were widely disregarded among the poorer whites and in the back country\", but it could also have been intended to reduce the husband's liability for debts for support of the wife and her children and for her pre-wedding debts, while it was unlikely to have been for the sale of a Black slave or an indentured servant, though being for the sale of an Indian woman or a mestizo, while unlikely, was not impossible.\n\nThe Carolina tribe of Native Americans, according to William Christie MacLeod, as reported in 1925, engaged in debtor slavery, where \"slave\" is defined by the Carolinas as \"that which is obsequiously to depend on the master for subsistence\". According to MacLeod quoting J. Lawson, \"if a man takes a widow ... laden with her husband's debts, she seems to have some of the attributes of a chattel, although also a wife. Her husband may ... '... take her for his money paid to her deceased husband's creditors, and sell her to another for his wife. \"[Lawson had] seen several of these bargains driven in a day\", and \"[Lawson said] you may see men selling their wives as men do horses at a fair, a man being allowed not only to change as often as he pleases but likewise to have as many wives as he is able to maintain.\"\n\nAccording to George Elliott Howard, as published in 1904, \"if dissatisfied with his wife, the young Gallinomero of [California] ... may 'strike a bargain with another man' and sell her 'for a few strings of shell-money. Also according to Howard, as published in 1904, \"among the California Yurok 'divorce is very easily accomplished at the will of the husband, the only indispensable formality being that he must receive back from his father-in-law the money which he paid for his spouse.'\n\nIn the late 17th–mid 18th centuries, among some Indian tribes of the Pacific Northwest, according to Elsie Frances Dennis, two Indians of unspecified tribe or tribes had been killed and \"the widow and two daughters of one were wailing, for they were to be sold as slaves.\" Not all tribes of the region and time sold wives; according to Dennis, \"Ross said that he never knew a single instance in which a Chinook or one of the neighboring tribes ever sold his wife\".\n\nIn 1802–1803, among native people on Kodiak (Kad'iak) Island, in present-day Alaska and that was then part of Russia, according to Gavriil Ivanovich Davydov, \"marital fidelity is not always considered a virtue by the islanders [\"Koniagas\"], and in many cases a husband will sell his wife for a small present.\"\n\nIn Florida, apparently \"c.\" in the 16th century, according to an unnamed \"eye-witness\", among Florida Indians, \"the ruler has power to give or rather to sell wives to those desirous of marriage.\"\n\nAccording to W. R. Riddell, \"a ... man with some Negro blood ... had a ... daughter ... showing little trace of Negro origin. It was understood that she would marry no one but a white man, and that the father was willing to give her a handsome dowry on such a marriage. A person of pure Caucasian stock from the Southern States came to Toronto, wooed and won her. They were married and the husband took his bride to his home in the South. Not long afterwards the father was horrified to learn that the plausible scoundrel had sold his wife as a slave. He at once went South and after great exertion and much expense, he succeeded in bringing back to his house the unhappy woman, the victim of brutal treachery.\"\n\nNot all people of African descent in the New York City area in 1776–1783 were slaves. In some cases, records may not reveal their status. A \"group of black men ... [were being \"court martial[led]\" for] killing a white slaveowner (who had just sold the wife of one of the accused in New York City)\".\n\nIn 1863, William W. Ryan, II, who had opposed slavery and secession and had enlisted into Union military service, was discharged from the military. According to his daughter, Margaret Ryan Kelley, he came home and \"brought with him a negro named August\", whom he paid. According to her, August said, \"his white folks ... had sold his wife 'down the river.' It was a source of constant grief for him... When he had $200, he intended to return to Virginia and find his people.\"\n\nCases were reported from different states. A slave born in North Carolina who moved 50 miles recalled that, while she was between 5 and 8 years old, here, he [unspecified who] sold my mother to New Orleans, leaving my father at home.' ... Her master moved to Alabama, and died ..., leaving behind unpaid bills and seven slaves, all of whom a sheriff sold, save for her father\", according to Daniel Meaders. According to Isaac Johnson, in childhood a slave, his \"mother was stolen ... from ... Madagascar\", \"given\" to Johnson's grandfather, evaluated as a \"servant\", and \"bequeathed\" to Johnson's father in Kentucky and Johnson's father \"used Jane in all respects as a wife and she, in her innocence, supposed she was such\". In \"c.\" 1851, Johnson's father, who had decided to move and therefore to sell his \"farm and stock\", ordered the sale of Johnson's mother and her children. No bids were offered for the mother with a 2-year-old child, but when they were separated she was sold for $1,100. Thomas Hughes, according to Meaders and Hopper, was a slave \"who had apparently taken a large sum of money\" from his Louisiana master and left, after which he was tried and sentenced. During his imprisonment, the master visited him, brought Hughes' wife, and promised that if Thomas Hughes went south the master would manumit her' and would not 'attempt to make a slave of him. But, according to Meaders and Hopper, they reached Baltimore, ... [the master] had sold his wife, and intended to make a slave of him' ... [however,] Hughes left\". An \"old slave\" from \"near Memphis\" told a soldier (Chauncey H. Cooke) that \"his master sold his wife and children to a cotton planter in Alabama to pay his gambling debts, and when he told his master he couldn't stand it, he was tied to the whipping post stripped and given 40 lashes. The next night he ran to the swamps. The bloodhounds were put on his track and caught him ... This happened in sight of Nashville, the capital of Tennessee. I told this to some of the boys and they said it was all bosh, that the niggers were lying to me. But this story was just like the ones in \"Uncle Tom's Cabin\" and I believe them. And father knows of things very much like this that are true.\" According to Mark P. Leone, reviewing a modern-day historical exhibition in Virginia of Carter's Grove plantation, a \"slave overseer was kept in place with threats to sell his wife\".\n\nOn the other hand, during the American Revolution, \"blacks who remained with their owners found that with the British army so near, they had leverage with their masters they had never before enjoyed.\" An \"advertisement announced the sale of a young Negro woman with four children. 'They are not sold for any fault,' claimed the seller, but because the woman had a husband in town and the mistress did not want to part them. While it is entirely possible that the owner acted out of humanitarian motivation, her liberality may have been influenced by her slave's enhanced chances for successful flight.\"\n\nJapanese immigration to Hawaii was promoted during the late 19th century, but their number included a low proportion of women. The first generation of Japanese immigrants to the islands (Issei) lived at a distance from their original communities. According to Eileen Tamura, this isolation, combined with failure of the expectation of earning enough to return, resulted in a temporary disintegration of social norms, and the disintegration led to wife-selling. The sheriff of the island of Hawaii, E. G. Hitchcock, wrote in 1892 that \"I wish to call your attention to the fact, more or less prevalent on this island, of the Japanese selling their wives or mistresses to each other.\" In 1901 and 1904, the sheriff of Maui wrote that \"In connection with Japanese the custom they have of trafficing in their women, buying and selling their wives is an evil that should be looked into,\" and proposed that laws explicitly prohibiting wife-selling be enacted. In a personal narrative related by Joan Hori, the question \"Why would anyone want a second-hand wife?\" was posed; the response was that the prospect of a wife already present in the islands was more certain than that of a picture bride.\n\nThe Chinese custom of wife selling or 'selling a divorce' () has a long history, spanning both the Imperial and Modern eras.\n\nAccording to 14th-century scholar Wei Su quoted by Paul J. Smith, \"early in the dynasty, ... the system for assessing taxes and labor services was based ... on household size. As a result ... the poor got even poorer. Poor folk sold their wives and children to meet their payments to the state\".\n\nThe earliest documented ban of the practice appears in Yuan Dynasty law dating to the 14th century. At that time, two types of wife selling were recognized, both considered illegal. The first type was when a husband sold his wife to a man with whom she had been committing adultery. The second type was when a husband sold his wife because she had betrayed him or because they were no longer able to get along. During the Ming Dynasty, it was gradually established that only wife selling motivated by adultery should be punished. By 1568, wife selling was explicitly authorized by the law in several circumstances. Authorized wife selling was preserved by Qing Dynasty lawmakers, as was the prohibition against selling a wife to her lover.\n\nFamines are related to wife sale. In 1834, about Kiang-si province, the missionary Mathieu-Ly said of \"starvation ... [that] crops have been swept away by the inundation of the rivers... [Some] people ... eat ... [expensive] earth ... The people first sold their wives, then sons and daughters, then their utensils and furniture; finally they demolished their houses in order to dispose of the timber.\" A 19th-century source characterized the practice as conventional among the lower classes in China: \"The poorer people take their wives for an agreed term, and buy and sell them at pleasure.\"\n\nAccording to Howard, as published in 1904, \"by Chinese law ... when the wife is guilty of adultery ... [if] the woman not be slain, ... the husband may ... sell her as a concubine, provided he has not pandered to the crime or does not sell her to the guilty man.\"\n\nAlso according to Howard, as published in 1904, in China, \"a marriage may be dissolved by mutual agreement\" \"but the agreement ... must be in good faith. Should the wife plan the divorce so as to form a punishable relation with another man, it is void, and the husband may ... sell her to another as in the case of unfaithfulness\".\n\nIn 1928–1930, in Shensi, there was a famine and, according to a local newspaper and Leonard T. K. Wu, peasants who \"had already mortgaged and sold all their lands on which they formerly made a living\" then sold their wives.\n\nAs the Chinese Communist Party came to power in 1949, wife selling was prohibited and the government took measures to eradicate the practice. During the famines caused by the Great Leap Forward, wife selling occurred in many of the poorer areas. As of 1997, the custom was still occasionally reported in some rural areas of the country.\n\nIn Tokugawa Japan (1600–1868), according to J. Mark Ramseyer and Takeyoshi Kawashima, \"men routinely sold their wives and children or rented them long-term ... [and this] was endemic to the brutality of Asiatic patriarchal feudalism\". Ramseyer continued, \"sales and adoptions were transfers in perpetuity\", the difference being that sales were sometimes legally banned so that adoptions were likely used as an alternative to like effect, with payment in a like direction. Sales were essentially into slavery. Published sales and adoptions known to Ramseyer totalled 52 contracts in 1601–1860, of the 52 35 being of females and 17 being of males, transfers including children, depending on each contract. After 1740, sale \"contracts ... largely disappeared\", largely because of a growing demand for nonagricultural labor, making absconding or running away easier and more profitable.\n\nIn 16th–17th-century Mughal India, according to Irfan Habib, although imperial regulations limited state revenue demands to approximately that which would permit the peasantry to survive, the local collectors often lacked willingness to comply, \"violated or evaded\" the regulations, and overestimated peasants' ability to pay. Despite at least one order that  ... the seizure and sale of the women and children of the combatants\", \"frequently ... peasants were compelled to sell their women, children and cattle in order to meet the revenue demand... But the enslavement was not generally so voluntary as even this. 'Villages', we are told, 'which owing to some shortage of produce, are unable to pay the full amount of the revenue-farm, are made prize, so to speak, by their masters and governors, and wives and children sold on the pretext of a charge of rebellion'... 'They (the peasants) are carried off, attached to heavy iron chains, to various markets and fairs (to be sold), with their poor, unhappy wives behind them carrying their small children in their arms, all crying and lamenting their evil plight.\n\nAlso, in Bengal, in approximately the same time period, according to Habib, \"if any peasant or stranger died without leaving a son [or \"died without heirs\"] ... his wife and daughters were seized [as a \"source of revenue\"] for the benefit, depending upon the locality, of the ... [\"imperial treasury\"], the ... [local \"potentate\"] or the 'dominant ... [\"vassal chief\", \"landlord\", or \"chief\"]'.\" This practice, called \"ankora\", may have been abolished.\n\nAs reported in 1897 by William Lee-Warner, \"husbands sold their wives from motives of enmity as well as gain. The selling price of girls and women was at all times from four to ten times greater than that of males.\"\n\nIn the Western Punjab, in or before 1911, according to A. J. O'Brien, among Muslims, a man \"proceeded to sell his wife\" to a member of another tribe and a dispute developed on other grounds and was resolved in which \"the right of disposal by relatives was freely admitted\".\n\nIn 2009, there were reports of impoverished farmers in the Bundelkhand region of India selling their wives to settle debts; the frequency of such cases is unknown.\n\nIn Africa generally, according to Parker Shipton in 1990, \"husbands sometimes sell wives [during famines or food shortages], but not vice versa\". On the other hand, responding to a charge by David Hume that Africans \"think it no crime to sell one another\", African philosopher Ottobah Cugoano wrote, \"nothing could be more opposite to everything that they hold dear and valuable\".\n\nIn West Africa, under the Aro Confederacy, according to David Graeber, \"a man who simply disliked his wife and was in need of brass rods could always come up with some reason to sell her, and the village elders—who received a share of the profits—would almost invariably concur.\"\n\nIn northern Tanganyika, in the Masai district, in 1955, according to Robert F. Gray, the Sonjo transfer \"wives—that is to say, wife rights\". Among the Sonjo, wrote Gray, \"a lively system of economic exchange ... also encompasses the sale and purchase of rights in women, who in their economic aspects are dealt with much like other commodities.\" According to Gray, \"when a husband dies, his wife rights are inherited by his eldest surviving brother. In this respect wives are dealt with in a different manner from other forms of property ... A brother may take the widow as his wife ... A brother may also sell the wife rights in the widow to another man, but in order to understand this transaction we must consider a mystical aspect of Sonjo marriage. It is believed that when a married person dies he will ultimately be reunited with his spouse in the spirit world. This belief is expressed in a myth: In former times the dead sometimes returned to earth to help their relatives here, but the last spirit to so materialize on earth was insulted and vowed that thereafter the dead would remain forever in the spirit world; she explained before departing that the spirits of dead husband and wives waited in the spirit world for their spouses to die, and were then reunited with them there. This belief has a practical bearing on bride-price transactions. Thus when a husband dies, the brother who inherits the widow may sell his rights in her to another man for the fixed price of thirty goats. This relatively small sum of less than half the woman's normal bride-price is explained by the belief in spirit marriage, for the new husband only acquires full wife rights in the woman in this world; after she dies she will rejoin her original husband in the spirit world. A second husband loses possession of her ghost. [¶] This reduced bride-price for a widow cannot be explained as resulting from a deterioration in her value as a wife.\" In case of divorce, stated Gray, a \"husband exchanges his wife rights with another man for a sum of goats. It is convenient to say that he 'sells' his wife, because the form of the transaction is basically the same as those in which he exchanges or sells other goods. Thus a young wife is treated economically as a commodity. Later in life she outgrows this status, partly because her sexual attractions wane, but of more importance is the fact that her children grow up and are betrothed ... This stabilizes her position in the community\". Gray continued, a \"young woman's value as a wife is not generally thought to be depreciated just because she was previously married, and a husband in selling a wife attempts to regain the same bride-price that he paid for her, which was originally based mainly on the social status of her parental family ... [with the price subject to] supply and demand ... [Some] restrictions limit the probability of finding a buyer in the same village ... After a buyer has been found, the wife is always given a grace period for finding a more desirable second husband before she is required to marry the man found by her husband. No physical coercion on the part of the husband is involved in the sale of a wife. The compulsive factor resides in the social structure, in which there is no regular position except as a wife for a young woman who was once married. However, a Sonjo husband has a special power, sanctioned by the community, over a wife whom he wishes to sell: if no acceptable buyer can be found within the tribe, he can sell her to the Masai, whose demands for Sonjo women and children seem to provide an unfailing market.\" Gray wrote, \"if a woman ... behaves so as to make herself unsatisfactory as a wife she may induce her husband to sell her to another man of her choice, and thus has some means of protecting her own interest. This system of wife purchase is quite flexible in operation and seems to allow a woman as much freedom of choice—admittedly little—as is found in most other African societies.\" According to Gray, \"children ... stay with their mother ... when she is sold and are adopted by her new husband.\" Gray wrote, \"only young wives, childless or with young children, are normally considered saleable, and the price paid usually equals or is near the original bride-price, though that is never exceeded. In at least one case an older woman [\"of about forty\"] was sold by her husband for a considerably reduced price.\" Gray continued, \"in these divorces ... payment is made ... only to her original husband [not to her father]. The village council, however, levies a tax of seven goats on these transactions ... This fee or tax is no doubt indicative of some underlying disapproval of the selling of wives. Most of these goats, like those collected in fines, are sacrificed ... When wives are exchanged rather than sold, the tax is only four goats ..., which accords with the general opinion that exchanging wives is preferable to selling them.\"\n\nIn East Congo, among the Baguha, as reported in 1926 by Melville J. Herskovitz, if a bride-price is given at marriage and, for a reason, returnable but \"is not returned, the man may sell his wife to recover the amount he gave for her, a custom distinctly not East African\".\n\nIn Bamum, a kingdom, in what is now Cameroon, in the 19th–20th centuries, according to Aboubakar Njiasse Njoya, \"in rare cases, ... when a husband was no longer on good terms with his freeborn wife, for whom he had paid a very high brideprice, he simply sold her without informing his parents-in-law.\" According to Njiasse Njoya, a minority of slaves \"were a product of ... disgruntled or dissatisfied husbands.\" Thus, a freeborn wife was sold into slavery when her husband was no longer on good terms with her. A \"slave\" is defined by Njiasse Njoya as \"a human being who has been deprived of his freedom and is totally in the possession of his master or state, who uses him at will.\" A French administrator in 1919 \"explained to [\"the king\"] the French decree ... which prohibited slavery... [and] demanded [of the king] that husbands cease selling their wives when they no longer satisfy them\".\n\n\"The Baluba [from the south-east in Central Africa in the 1880s] ... do not understand that there is any wrong in selling their wives and children; as these are property they consider themselves entitled to dispose of them at their pleasure\", according to Ludwig Wolf, whose expedition met the Baluba \"c.\" or after November, 1884, and in 1885. Wolf continued, \"since the Baluba have come into contact with the Kioque and Bangala, trading tribes from the Lunda country and from Kuango, they are getting provided with guns and powder, for which they barter children, girls, and even their own wives.\" Wolf argued to a Baluba chief \"how wrong it was to sell their own wives, ... [and the chief said], rather in confidence, that they only sold their troublesome wives out of the country, never the good ones.\" (The Baluba, said Wolf, distinguished \"between domestic slaves and slaves for export ... [by which] latter are usually troublesome individuals whom they want to get rid of\".)\n\nIn Southern Zambia, among the Toka, in the early 20th century, according to Gisela Geisler, \"often women were ... hired out or even 'sold' against payment of cash to interested men by their own husbands.\" Geisler continued, \"migrant labourers and African public servants ... had a particular interest in 'temporary marriages ...' ... [which] granted them unlimited access to the domestic and sexual services ... [and they] must have been ... fairly common in Livingstone\". Geisler continued, \"while these practices offered single women some possibilities of survival in town, ... they also meant that women could take on the character of moveable capital assets in the hands of men.\" In the British colonial court established in 1906, \"men who claimed to be 'legal' husbands accused 'temporary' husbands of adultery and demanded compensation, particularly if the bartered woman refused to return to her original husband. In one such case, a 'husband' demanded compensation from a 'temporary' husband because the latter had extended the agreed upon time with the former's wife without paying further monies... Another man, who had sold his wife temporarily to a Lozi, demanded a court order for the return of his wife as well as outstanding payments... Other husbands accused their wives in court of having misappropriated payments from their 'temporary' husbands.\" In a 1910 case, Geisler reported, a man objected that his daughter's husband \"had sold her to another man\", not because the father, who was a headman, was \"concerned about the moral issue\", but because \"he had not been paid bridewealth from the new husband.\" Geisler also reported, in 1912 a rural Toka man's brother had died and the man had inherited his brother's wife and \"he had passed the wife on to another man against payment ..., [which was] the exact sum his late brother had paid ... [and] new husband had sold the woman to yet another man\" and a fresh payment was demanded. Geisler found another complication: After the court revised how it dealt with adultery, partly by forcing a divorce on the husband who was suing, and until \"the enactment of the Native Court Ordinance of 1929\", \"husbands, who had previously tried to profit financially from in effect selling their wives to other men and then charging them for adultery compensation before the urban court, now had to fear that bringing such charges might well imply that they lost their wife, the main asset for further deals of the kind.\" Geisler wrote, \"women ... never had access to the money and goods that passed among the hands of men for rights over them, and ... they were not concerned about morality, [so] women could [until the passage of the 1929 law] to a certain extent move between men on their own accord and in their own right.\"\n\nIn South Africa, among Chinese laborers in 1904–1910, according to Gary Kynoch, gambling was \"prolific\" and unpaid debts often led to suicide and sales of wives and children.\n\nIn what is now western Burkina Faso, in Souroudougou, in the 1890s, \"household heads often resorted to selling their wives and children to passing merchants for cowries or millett, with no option for re-purchase... became actual commodities that were bartered (not loaned) away.\" In addition, if a family (\"a man, his wife and children\") went to the countryside, \"bandits who [\"often\"] hid ... would trap the family, and perhaps kill the man. The mother and her children would be sold as slaves.\"\n\nIn Eastern Ethiopia, wives were sold, a practice apart from that of bride price in Africa.\n\nIn southeast Nigeria before it was colonized, according to David Northrup, \"goods brought by visiting traders proved irresistible to many. Yet there was little that could be given in exchange for such goods: ivory, salt, fancy textiles, metalware, and, of course, slaves... For many people slaves were the only real possibility. The more venturesome or powerful might hope to ... sell an adulterous wife ... But ... [this] would not have been within the range of possibilities open to the average person.\"\n\nIn Colombia under Spanish colonial rule, particularly in 1750–1826, according to David L. Chandler, Spanish law \"allowed slaves to marry and establish a family even against the master's wishes ... and prohibited ... [the family's] separation through sale... of the slave family was not very common.\" If a slave couple was broken up by the sale of one spouse out of an area, Chandler wrote, the other spouse, even after 10 years, could petition a court to allow the latter slave to find a buyer so the couple could reunite; such cases, in which the wife was sold first and the husband second, were litigated in 1802 and 1806. In 1808, reported Chandler, a master had sold a slave husband to another master; after a dispute between the slaves and the selling master, the master who sold the husband was subsequently ordered by a court to sell the slave's wife to the other master as well, so the slave family would be able to live together and not merely have visits; and the court order was complied with.\n\nIn ancient Rome, the 'power of life and killing' (\"vitae necisque potestas\", more commonly 'power of life and death') was vested in the husband over his wife in some circumstances, the husband being the \"pater familias\" or 'head of the household'. According to Keith Bradley, Augustine wrote that \"there was a man (a Christian at that) who had sold his wife into slavery because he preferred to have the cash\". According to Edward Gibbon, in the earlier period of Eastern Roman society, a husband could sell his wife, because she was counted among his children and he could sell them. According to Bruce W. Frier and Thomas A. J. McGinn, \"it was apparently illegal for a husband to sell his wife [if in \"manus\"], to give her in adoption, or to execute her even for serious misconduct without first consulting a \"consilium\" of relatives,\" thus possibly lawful after the \"consilium\". However, according to Paul du Plessis, \"the husband did not have the power of life and death over his wife; nor could he sell her into slavery...\" According to Frier and McGinn, a wife had a socially respected position as \"mater familias\", \"although ... her position was weak in law\". According to Jane F. Gardner, \"over a wife in free marriage ... [\"her husband\"] had no \"potestas\" [power] at all.\" However, according to Mireille Corbier, \"in the framework of free marriage, a practice that became frequent in the late republican period, the wife ... remained in her father's familia.\"\n\nIn Babylon, around the 1700s BC, the law that applied was King Hammurabi's Code. According to Étan Levine, \"Hammurabi law ... permitted a wife to be sold to pay her husband's debts\", although an earlier view (possibly outdated or not agreed with by all scholars) was that the law may have been relatively limited, providing only that the wife sale was limited to the sale of her services, Theophile J. Meek arguing in 1948 that the law should be \"translated somewhat as follows: ... § 117: 'If an obligation came due against a seignior and he accordingly sold (the services of) his wife ... they [\"e.g.\", \"his wife\"] shall work (in) the house of their purchaser or obligee for three years, with their freedom re-established in the fourth year and another view was that the law created an indenture, not a sale, being for a limited duration. Specifically, according to Ernst J. Cohn in 1938, \"if a man contracted a debt and sold his wife, son or daughter or gave them to work it off, 'for three years they work in the house of their buyer or exploiter and in the fourth year he shall restore them to their former condition.\n\nIn Islamic sources, while the term \"wife selling\" referring to someone giving his wife to someone else for money does not appear, \"selling\" word appears in the following sources in different meanings regarding the divorce issue. By the Hanafi school of thought, according to Laleh Bakhtiar (1938–present), a husband may say to his wife, for example, \"I sell you to yourself for so much\", and she may reply, \"I purchase\". According to Howard, as published in 1904, \"under the existing law of Islam the woman has gained a limited right of divorce... may buy her release; and in this case 'a restoration of the marriage bond is impossible. According to Harald Motzki in 2003, of 4 forms of divorce permitted by the Qurʾān, one is divorce by the wife \"bargaining for it\" from her husband. No source found reports that Islam requires that a wife must be sold or that this form of divorce is required. Other forms of divorce exist. No source found reports that the payment in this form of divorce must be spent for any specific post-divorce purpose, such as child support or alimony, or that it need be a property settlement beyond the terms of the agreement.\n\nAs reported by Bakhtiar, comparing 5 branches of Muslim teaching, all 5 branches agree that a wife may pay \"consideration\" or, by 4 of the 5 schools, a third party may pay \"ransom\" to her husband for a divorce, the branches differing under some circumstances, such as on validity if the wife is pregnant. Divorce, according to Bakhtiar, of the form where \"the wife pays her husband the consideration to divorce her\" and when there is \"mutual agreement to this kind of divorce\" is, by 4 of the 5 schools, while \"valid\", \"not recommended\".\n\nAccording to Bakhtiar, a 'divorce for a consideration' is called a \"khul\" (according to Howard, her release\" is \"by the form called \"chol\"\") and, by 4 out of 5 schools of thought, a variety of wordings, both explicit and implicit, may be used to pronounce such a divorce, such as \"al-khul\", the Jafaris also accepting \"al-talaq\", the Hanafi and Shafii schools accepting \"al-bay\", meaning 'to sell', and Hanafis accepting \"al-shira\", meaning 'to purchase'.\n\nBakhtiar says the schools of thought are followed in certain countries and regions:\n\nIn the Christian Church, according to Frederik Pijper in 1909, \"one way [to \"become a slave\"] was by selling oneself because of poverty. It might so happen that a married pair sank into such need that the husband was compelled to sell himself, and did so with his wife's consent. In this way he secured sustenance for himself, and with the purchase-money he was in a position to keep his wife from starving. Sometimes the conditions were reversed, and the wife sold herself with the same intentions and with her husband's consent. In such cases the marriage was usually dissolved; to be sure the Church opposed this, but could not prevent and therefore yielded to it... A synod at Paris early in the seventh century ordained that freemen who had sold ... themselves should if they repaid the money at once be restored to their former status. To demand back a greater sum than what had been paid for them, was not allowed.\"\n\nContrasting women by rank or class and noting which wives were sold and which were not, Pijper wrote of the medieval Church, a \"woman of noble rank who had deserted her husband three times was to be put under penance, and was to be prohibited from marrying again; but if she was a woman from the people she must be sold without hope of regaining her freedom\".\n\nThe parable of the unforgiving servant, attributed to Jesus, according to David Graeber, told of a creditor ordering the sale of a man who is both his debtor and his servant along with the sale of the man's wife, children, and property.\n\nWife selling occurred in Europe in addition to that in Britain:\nIn Kafiristan, which was east of Afghanistan, in the 19th century, a divorce was \"easy\" and was done by the husband selling a wife. If a husband died, when the wife or wives \"revert[ed]\" to the husband's family, surviving brothers either \"sold or retained\" the wives.\n\nIn Malaya, Chinese laborers in the 1880s–1890s, according to Kynoch, \"were said to have been prolific gamblers ... [and] 'many of those who failed to pay off their gambling debts ... either committed suicide or sold their wives and children to pay off their debts'\".\n\nIn Thailand, from the mid-13th century until 1932, according to Darunee Tantiwiramanond and Shashi Pandey, because \"traditional Thai law ... decreed that women were mere chattels of men\" and thus \"women were considered part of a man's assets ... and hence were subjected to male overlordship\", \"a husband or a father could sell his wife or daughter without her consent... The logic of the law, however, did not operate in reverse and did not apply in the case of the wife because she was not a legal entity and had no identity in her own right.\"\n\nIn Northern Asia, according to an 1895 report by Arthur Montefiore, among Samoyads (or \"Samoyedi\") (who are part of the Ural-Altaic Mongoloids), \"[the husband] may commerce with his wife, for marriage is not considered a binding tie. It is not uncommon for a Samoyad to sell his wife to another for the consideration of a few teams of deer, and he sometimes barters her for a lady whose husband may be willing to accept the view that exchange is no robbery.\"\n\nIn the Republic of Vietnam (South Vietnam), Tuân Sắc in 1969 \"argued, are those who sell their wives and children for money, even women who sell their husbands for a little spending money (it's all in the newspapers) and posited that such people are not, or are no longer, Vietnamese.\n\nIn Indonesia, among the Nias, according to E. M. Loeb citing J. B. Neumann from 1886, a husband was allowed to \"pawn ... [his wife] as a pledge for his debts\", but not to sell her \"outright\".\n\nIn ancient Emar, Syria, in the late 14th- to early 12th-centuries B.C.E., in the Late Bronze Age, \"debtors sold their wives\" \"into slavery\". In or near ancient Emar, according to Gary Beckman, a cuneiform tablet documented an instance of a husband selling his wife \"into the service of\" another man, for whom she was to be \"the servant\", \"dead or living\", with a provision that if she be redeemed the redeemer was to provide \"one healthy woman ... in compensation\".\n\nA Christian Biblical Old Testament passage describes an event in Egypt as an instance of wife selling. According to Theodore Y. Blumoff, \"Genesis\" describes \"some pretty deplorable characters who do dreadful things to each other ... [including a] candidate for future sanctification selling his wife—not once but twice—to save his own skin and make a buck\".\n\nIn ancient Rome, in two situations, a \"fictitious\" sale was an actual procedure. In one, to get rid of a \"tutor\" (a person responsible for approving of a female's decisions that might, \"e.g.\", reduce her assets), as a way of getting a replacement \"tutor\", \"the woman [including a wife] undergoes a formal and entirely fictitious 'sale' (\"coemptio\") in which she sells herself to [a] third party, who then remancipates her to another person, who 'manumits' her and thereafter becomes her \"fiduciary guardian\" (\"tutor fiduciarius\"); that is, he replaces her original \"tutor\".\" The procedure was also used for the making of a will when a wife wanted some of her property upon her demise to go not to her birth family but to her husband (and perhaps to her children). \"How frequently women made use of ... [\"this [\"contrived\"] ceremony\"] we have no way of telling, but we often hear of women's wills from [the years of] the late Republic on.\" \"Hadrian (reign: A.D. 117–138) had enacted a decree of the Senate that abolished the need for the 'sale. \"Classical law ... usually treat[ed]... the sale of free persons as void\".\n\nOne of three forms of \"manus\" marriage was \"coemptio\", which, according to Gary Forsythe, seems to have existed in the mid-5th century BC and into the CE 2nd century. According to Gardner and Marcia L. Colish, \"coemptio\" was in essence a fictitious notional sale of the woman to the husband that could occur at any time during their marriage, thus, if after marriage, a fictitious notional sale of the wife to her own husband. According to du Plessis, \"a ceremonial resale of the wife terminated marriage by \"coemptio\" (and probably by \"usus\", too)\", as a reversal of the marriage procedure.\n\nTheophanes claimed that in the 5th century Theodosius II, emperor of the Eastern Roman Empire, may have been managed or tricked into signing unread a contract \"selling\" his wife Aelia Eudocia into slavery or giving her to Pulcheria so Pulcheria could sell his wife; after the signing, Pulcheria \"gave ... [Theodosius] a mighty scolding\" and the sale or gift is not known to have occurred.\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Gail Hamilton, Cato gave his wife to Hortensius, who married her, after which, when Hortensius was dying, he left all his property to her and, when she was widowed, Cato remarried her; and Caesar Cato ... [for] having sold his wife for Hortensius's gold.\"\n\nRegarding a married man's consortium with a slave who may have thereby borne sons, Pijper wrote of medieval Christians, \"according to Vinniaus the married freeman who had consorted with a slave should be compelled to sell the woman; [but] if he had one or several sons by her he must set her free, and was not allowed to sell her.\" Women consorting with churchmen were to be sold by bishops; Pijper reported, \"some churchmen, not living in honorable wedlock, consorted with strange women or their own slaves. Bishops were instructed to secure such women and sell them. This hard law was promulgated in Spain, at the beginning of the seventh century.\" A subdeacon's wife was to be enslaved by a prince, according to Pijper; \"if a subdeacon refused to give up his wife, he was to be removed from his ecclesiastical office and benefice. If, however, after being warned by his bishop, he still failed to yield, his wife was to be made a slave by the prince.\"\n\nThe buying the freedom of a slave being from another party's perspective the selling the slave into freedom, the medieval Christian Church permitted the selling into freedom of a slave who was a spouse; according to Pijper, \"if ... two slaves were joined in wedlock by their common master, and one of them was thereafter freed, that one was permitted to marry again, if the freedom of the other could not be bought.\"\n\nIn Asia Minor, administered by Turks, among the Yourouks, as reported in 1891 by Theodore Bent, \"on marriage the husband generally pays something to the father, and this has given rise to the idea that the nomads [\"Yourouks\"] are in the habit of selling their wives for the harems of Constantinople, whereas they are only carrying out their legitimate idea of the marriage contract.\" On the other hand, wives are often slaves; according to Bent, \"poor though he is, a man will often have seven wives, or more properly speaking, seven slaves.\"\n\nIn Palestine of the 1st century, according to Graeber, it was not \"normal\" \"for a man ... to be able to sell his wife\".\n\nOn an Abyssinian couple met in northeast Africa, in 1899–1900, according to James J. Harrison, \"we [the first white men ever seen in the country] ... encountered an Abyssinian gentleman, who, having nothing else to sell us, tried to sell his wife. After repeated attempts, he and the good lady, looking crestfallen at not even raising a bid, proceeded on their journey.\"\n\nIn Australia, in 1880–1884, among aborigines in Queensland, according to Carl Lumholtz, \"at Herbert River the blacks did not know, before the arrival of the whites, of any stimulants at all. The tobacco served me instead of money, and for it they would do anything, even to selling their wives.\"\n\nIn Szabolcs, in the 11th century, a substitute for a wife could be sold, with the gain going to religious leadership. According to Pijper in 1909, writing of the Christian Church, \"according to the synod of Szabolcs (1092), if a priest instead of taking a wife had chosen a servant or a slave as a companion, she was to be sold and the proceeds were to be given to the bishop.\"\n\nThese are claims by enemies in war (including civil war) and which may not have been true even to a small degree, but which were widely made.\n\nIn Rwanda, up to 1994, according to Erin K Baines, Hutus accused Tutsis, identified as enemies, by saying, \"Tutsi sold their wives ... to the Hutu authorities. Tutsis tried to marry their wives to Hutu elite in order to have spies in the inner circle.\"\n\nMost bans are implied in bans against sales of human beings that by definition include sales of wives, and such more general bans are too numerous to list here. Some bans, however, are explicitly against wife sale.\n\nIn Thailand, \"only in 1935, under pressure from the West, were ... men forbidden from selling their wives into prostitution\".\n\nIn Indonesia, among the Nias, according to Loeb citing Neumann from 1886, \"the only restriction which the husband had to observe is that he was not allowed to sell his wife outright\", but was allowed to \"pawn her as a pledge for his debts\".\n\nAmong the Kaffirs, as studied in the Cape Colony by the South African government in 1883, \"the husband cannot sell his wife nor ill-treat her\"; divorce exists but is rare.\n\nIn ancient Rome, according to Jörg Rüpke, \"a husband selling his wife\" was a \"crime ... that [would have] fundamental social relationships,\" in which the wife as \"the harmed one is in an inferior position\". Thus, according to Rüpke, \"by the \"sacer-esto\"-formula, a curse declaring someone outlawed[,]... the delinquent\" may be killed by anyone. Specifically, according to Rüpke, \"if somebody has sold his wife, he shall be sacrificed to the lower gods\". The enactment of \"the law that whoever sold his wife should be given over to the infernal gods\" was, according to John Andrew Couch in 1894, credited to Romulus. According to Alan Watson in 1972, \"anyone who sold his wife was to be dedicated [apparently 'sacrificed'] to the gods of the underworld.\" \"The husband who sold his wife was to be sacrificed (if we may so translate Plutarch ...) to the infernal deities\", according to Fowler in 1911. According to Rüpke, this judgment and punishment reflected and was legitimized by religion. However, after a while, the offense was no longer punished; according to Mary Emily Case, \"this very primitive kind of justice [in which \"one who violated these rules [\"of the \"fas\",—that is, of religious duty\"] was pronounced accursed, and might be killed by any who met him\"] soon fell into disuse, and offences which were merely \"nefas\"—such, for example, as selling a wife—ceased to be punished. Thus, \"fas\" early lost the force of law.\"\n\nIn ancient Israel, according to Levine, a man \"could never sell a wife, even if she had originally been a war captive\"; at least he could not sell her to an \"outsider\", although redemption was possible.\n\nHowever, ambivalently, N. P. Lemche argued that \"either there are no rules for a Hebrew's selling his wife ..., or ... [this category is] incorporated in the law ... in the way that it was considered impossible that a man should be able to sell his wife and remain free himself\".\n\nBans, whether against wife sales specifically or against all sales of human beings, that were only in effect part of the time or that were substantially violated and unenforced are too numerous to list. Examples include bans in England, often violated and generally unenforced for a time, and Japan, by law having no ban for a time.\n\nAn undated doggerel from Western Pennsylvania was reported by H. Carrington Bolton as \"Pontius Pilate, King of the Jews\",/\"Sold his wife for a pair of shoes.\"/\"When the shoes began to wear\"/\"Pontius Pilate began to swear.\" Bolton received it after publishing other rhymes used by children for \"counting-out\". Variants on the rhyme have also been reported, including from Salt Lake City \"c.\" 1920 and Los Angeles \"c.\" 1935, the variants naming \"Holy Moses\" instead of \"Pontius Pilate\", and some women reported their use \"as rope-skipping and ball-bouncing rhymes\".\n\nIn the U.S., a folktale titled \"The Man Who Sold His Wife For Beef\", narrated by two informants, and that possibly was true although \" to be only a folktale, was told in 1952 by Mrs. Mary Richardson, living in Calvin Township, southwestern Michigan, which town was a destination for slaves travelling through the Underground Railroad and in which town most residents and local government officials were Black. As told to Richard M. Dorson, in Clarksdale, Cohoma County, northern Mississippi, \"c.\" 1890 or \"c.\" 1897–1898, a husband killed his wife and sold some parts to people to eat as beef, and the husband was caught and executed.\n\nThe plot of the 1969 western-musical film \"Paint Your Wagon\" treats the subject satirically.\n\nIn 1933, Sane Guruji (born as Pandurang Sadashiv Sane), of Maharashtra, India, authored \"Shyamchi Ai\", a collection of \"stories\", which, according to Guruji, were \"true ... [but with] ... a possibility of a character, an incident or a remark being fictitious.\" One of the stories was \"Karja Mhanje Jiwantapanicha Narak\" (\"Indebtedness is Hell on Earth\"), in which, according to Shanta Gokhale, a man borrowed money from a moneylender, had not paid principal or interest, and was visited by the moneylender's representative who demanded full payment and \"shamelessly suggested\", \"if you sold wife's bangles to build a house, you can sell your wife now to repay your debts\", his wife, hearing this, came to where her husband and the moneylender's representative were talking and said, \"aren't you ashamed to talk about selling wives? Have you no control over your tongue?\", no wife sale occurred, and a partial monetary payment was made to the moneylender's representative. According to Gokhale, in 1935–1985 (\"55 years\") (), \"every middle-class home in Maharashtra is said to have possessed a copy of \"Shyamti Ai\" and every member of every such household may be assumed to have read it... [and it] was also made into a film which instantly received the same kind of adoring viewership.\" According to Sudha Varde or Sadanand Varde, Guruji was one of \"only two men [\"even in the Seva Dal\"] who could be called feminists in the real sense\", because \"Guruji ... respected women in every way ... [and] had a real awareness of the lives, of women and the hardships they had to bear\"; these statements were, according to Gokhale, published as part of \"some indication of the widespread influence \"Shyamchi Ai\" has had in Maharashtra.\"\n\nIn southeastern India, in the Tanjavur region, often described as the main part of Tamil society, according to Sanjay Subrahmanyam, Shahaji Bhonsle, who ruled Tanjavur 1684–1712, in the early 18th century wrote \"Satidânashûramu\" ('The Gifting of the Virtuous Wife'), a play in the Telugu language, for an annual festival at a temple. Subrahmanyam says that, in the play, a member of the Untouchable (Dalit) caste offers to \"donate\" his wife to a Brahmin and asks whether Harishchandra \"didn't ... sell his wife for truth\", although the Brahmin announces that he must refuse the gift and ultimately the wife's \"virtue remains unsullied\".\n\nIn Indian literature, \"Mahabharata\", a story of Gandhari, according to Jayanti Alam, includes the \" (or censuring) of \"Yudhishtira ... for 'selling' his wife in the gamble\". According to Alam, \"Rabindranath's Gandhari is ... a feminist\" and \"Gandhari's feminism reaches its sublime height and she emerges the apostle of justice\".\n\nAccording to Jonathan Parry in 1980, \"in the famous legend of Raja Harish Chandra, it was in order to provide a \"dakshina\" that, having been tricked into giving away all his material possessions in a dream, the righteous king was forced to sell his wife and son into slavery and himself become the servant of the cremation \"ghat\" Dom in Benares.\"\n\nIn China, according to Smith, a \"possibly well-known tale\" about the Song dynastic era (A.D. 960–1279) told of a wife invited to a prefect's party for wives of subordinate officials, from which she \"was kidnapped by a brothel-master\", who later \"sold her ... [to] her husband's new employer ... who  ... the couple\".\n\nIn 1990, in Central Nepal, mainly in rural areas, one song, a \"dukha\", which is a \"suffering/hardship\" song that \"provide[s] ... an interpretation of women's hardships\", \"underscore[d] ... the limited resources and rights of a wife caught in a bad marriage\". Sung from a daughter's perspective, the song in part said, \"[The wife says] You don't need to return home after drinking there in the evening.\"/\"In Pokhara bazaar, [there is] an electricity line,\"/\"The household property is not mine.\"/\"The housewife is an outsider,\"/\"All the household property is needed [for raksi].\"/\"If this wife is not enough, you can get another,\"/\"The head of the cock will be caught [i.e., with two wives he'll have problems].\"/\"Why do you hold your head [looking worried]? Go sell the buffalo and pigs.\"/\"If you don't have enough money [for raksi], you will even sell your wife.\"/\"After selling his wife, he'll become a \"jogT\" [here: a beggar without a wife].\" A \"woman ... became visibly agitated while listening to [this song]\". This was part of a genre sung at the annual Tij Festival, by Hindu women in the mid to late 20th century, but mostly not between the festivals. According to Debra Skinner and co-authors, \"this genre ... has been recognized by urban-based political and feminist groups as a promising medium for demanding equal rights for women and the poor.\"\n\nIn Guatemala, according to Robert G. Mead, Jr., a \"legend [that is] popular ... [is] the story of the poor man who becomes rich by selling his wife to the Devil.\" This legend, according to Mead, is also one basis of the 1963 novel \"Mulata de tal\", by Miguel Angel Asturias, a winner in 1967 of the Nobel Prize in Literature.\n\nIn the Dutch Indies, fiction by Tirto Adhi Soerjo, who was Javanese and writing in a language that \"was a form of resistance to Dutch\", according to Laurie J. Sears, included in 1909 \"Membeli Bini Orang: Sebuah Cerita Yang Sungguh Sudah Terjadi Di Periangan\" (\"Buying Another Man's Wife: A Story that Really Happened in the Priangan\"), in which \"a religious Muslim ... tries to get rid of his wife, whom a \"dukun\" said was not good for him ... [noting that since his marriage after his prior widowhood] all his business efforts have turned into failures ... [and] he agrees to give or sell his wife to a greedy Eurasian (=Indo) moneylender who has fallen in love with her... [She, as the first man's wife,] is a very promiscuous woman, easily impressed with money and fashionable clothing, and the Eurasian ends up feeling more than punished for his pursuit and purchase of another man's wife.\"\n\nIn Scandinavia, in \"c.\" 1850s–1870s, where there were many critics of the Mormon religion, \"ballad mongers hawked 'the latest new verse about the Copenhagen apprentice masons' who sold their wives to the Mormons for two thousand kroner and riotously drowned their sorrows in the taverns\".\n\nA wife being subject to sale was a consequence of her being a man's property, according to sociologist Alvin John Schmidt. The religious Commandment against coveting one's neighbor's wife has as part of its basis that \"the wife is definitely seen as property\", wrote Schmidt. Christians and earlier Hebrews were, according to Schmidt, influenced by the belief that \"woman [was] ... unequal to man\", producing \"sexist theology\". Schmidt argued that teachers of Judeo-Christian tradition who teach on this Commandment \"without drawing attention to the property concept of woman\" \"might [be] ... unknowingly contributing to sexual inequality\". Inequality and inferiority are, according to Schmidt, \"negative\".\n\nWife selling was criticized by the Roman Catholic Pope Gregory VII in the 11th century, and the Catholic church over time objected to it, apparently because it objected to divorce, while the non-Catholic Christian church sometimes did not oppose it.\n\nAccording to Robert G. Ingersoll, writing in 1881, \"to sell wives ... is slavery. This is what Jehovah 'authorized in Judea.\n\nKarl Marx argued that machinery adds so many women and children to the workforce that men are displaced and thus, according to Michael Burawoy, \"all that the father can do is sell his wife and children.\" Then, according to Marx, \"he has become a slave dealer.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "765999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765999", "title": "William Neal Reynolds", "text": "William Neal Reynolds\n\nWilliam Neal Reynolds (March 22, 1863 – September 10, 1951) was a U.S. sportsman and businessman with R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, which was founded by his brother R. J. Reynolds.\n\nBorn in Patrick County, Virginia, Reynolds went to work for his brother in Winston-Salem, North Carolina in 1881 as he worked himself through Trinity College (later Duke University). From 1890 to 1940, Reynolds served as a director of Reynolds Co. He served as the first vice-president of the company until he took over the presidency in 1918.\n\nAlways called \"Mr. Will,\" Reynolds took over the presidency of the company after his brother's death from cancer in 1918; he turned the presidency over in 1924 to Bowman Gray Sr. The company then turned from \"the dominance of its founder into the less personal sphere of corporate life.\" Reynolds became the first chairman of the board of directors of Reynolds Co. in 1924 until 1931 and then served as chairman of the board's executive committee until 1941.\n\nReynolds married Kate G. Bitting in 1889.\n\nReynolds was the first president of the Forsyth Country Club and commissioned a nine-hole golf course to be built. After eight years, in 1921, he brought in famed golf course designer Donald Ross to design an 18-hole course. In 1925, Reynolds founded another golf course, Roaring Gap, about an hour away from Winston-Salem and also designed by Ross.\n\nR.J. Reynolds' widow Katharine died in 1924, and their four children were then raised by William Reynolds and his wife, Kate. Reynolds and Kate had no children of their own.\n\nThe youngest Reynolds child, Zachary Smith Reynolds, called \"Smith,\" was seven when his mother died. He was murdered at the age of 20 at his parents' estate, Reynolda House. His pregnant wife, Libby Holman, and friend were indicted for the murder, in a sensational case that garnered national attention. Reynolds contacted the district attorney and asked for the charges against his nephew's alleged killers to be dropped; the prosecutor eventually did so for lack of evidence, and no trial on the matter was ever held. The Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation was established in Smith Reynolds' name by Smith Reynolds' siblings and by Reynolds. The foundation lured Wake Forest University away from its location away in Wake Forest, North Carolina to establish a new campus on the grounds of Reynolda House and receive an annual endowment from the foundation.\n\nReynolds also built a hospital in Winston-Salem specifically for African-Americans, named the Kate Bitting Reynolds Memorial Hospital in honor of his wife. In honor of his mother, he founded the Cox School in Stokes County, North Carolina and the Hardin Reynolds School in Patrick County, Virginia to honor his father. The Kate B. Reynolds Trust uses one-fourth of the income collected each year from its more than two million shares of R.J. Reynolds Co. stock to help the \"poor and needy\" in Winston-Salem.\n\nReynolds built a country estate on the Yadkin River near Winston-Salem, Tanglewood Park Arboretum and Rose Garden, and moved into it in 1921. Reynolds kept racehorses at Tanglewood for competition. In the racing season of 1909 to 1910, one of Reynolds' horses won 15 of 17 races conducted. He also owned interests in horse farms in Lexington, Kentucky and Florida.\n\nHe eventually donated Tanglewood to Forsyth County for use as a park. Today, Tanglewood has three golf courses; an 18-hole par 3 course, the Reynolds Course, and the Championship Course which hosted the 1974 PGA Championship and was the site of a Champions Tour event from 1987-2002. Tanglewood also has horseback riding, bicycling, swimming and boating.\n"}
