{"id": "29697656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29697656", "title": "Aggregate (data warehouse)", "text": "Aggregate (data warehouse)\n\nAggregates are used in dimensional models of the data warehouse to produce positive effects on the time it takes to query large sets of data. At the simplest form an aggregate is a simple summary table that can be derived by performing a \"Group by\" SQL query. A more common use of aggregates is to take a dimension and change the granularity of this dimension. When changing the granularity of the dimension the fact table has to be partially summarized to fit the new grain of the new dimension, thus creating new dimensional and fact tables, fitting this new level of grain. Aggregates are sometimes referred to as pre-calculated summary data, since aggregations are usually precomputed, partially summarized data, that are stored in new aggregated tables. When facts are aggregated, it is either done by eliminating dimensionality or by associating the facts with a rolled up dimension. Rolled up dimensions should be shrunken versions of the dimensions associated with the granular base facts. This way, the aggregated dimension tables should conform to the base dimension tables. So the reason why aggregates can make such a dramatic increase in the performance of the data warehouse is the reduction of the number of rows to be accessed when responding to a query.\n\nRalph Kimball, who is widely regarded as one of the original architects of data warehousing, says:\n\"The single most dramatic way to affect performance in a large data warehouse is to provide a proper set of aggregate (summary) records that coexist with the primary base records. Aggregates can have a very significant effect on performance, in some cases speeding queries by a factor of one hundred or even one thousand. No other means exist to harvest such spectacular gains.\"\n\nHaving aggregates and atomic data increases the complexity of the dimensional model. This complexity should be transparent to the users of the data warehouse, thus when a request is made, the data warehouse should return data from the table with the correct grain. So when requests to the data warehouse are made, aggregate navigator functionality should be implemented, to help determine the correct table with the correct grain. \nThe number of possible aggregations is determined by every possible combination of dimension granularities. Since it would produce a lot of overhead to build all possible aggregations, it is a good idea to choose a subset of tables on which to make aggregations. The best way to choose this subset and decide which aggregations to build is to monitor queries and design aggregations to match query patterns.\n\nHaving aggregate data in the dimensional model makes the environment more complex. To make this extra complexity transparent to the user, functionality known as aggregate navigation is used to query the dimensional and fact tables with the correct grain level. The aggregate navigation essentially examines the query to see if it can be answered using a smaller, aggregate table.\n\nImplementations of aggregate navigators can be found in a range of technologies:\nIt is generally recommended to use either of the first three technologies, since the benefits in the latter case is restricted to a single front end BI tool\n\n"}
{"id": "49509538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49509538", "title": "AlphaSights", "text": "AlphaSights\n\nAlphaSights is an information services company, specializing in connecting clients with experts, sometimes referred to as an expert network. The company's clients include professionals operating in management & strategy consulting, investment management, private equity, corporate and professional services firms with interests in a range of markets including technology, industrials, consumer goods, telecommunications, utilities, financial services, healthcare, consumer services, basic materials, and oil and gas. AlphaSights is headquartered in London and has offices in New York, Hamburg, Dubai, Hong Kong, San Francisco, Shanghai, Seoul, and Tokyo.\n\nThe company has been mentioned or covered in various media outlets including \"The Sunday Times\", \"The Telegraph\", \"The Guardian\", \"Business Insider\", and The \"Mirror\".\n\nThe company was founded in 2008 and incorporated in 2009 in London by Max Cartellieri and Andrew Heath. They met at Stanford Business School in California, but each founded different companies before founding AlphaSights. Cartellieri co-founded Ciao AG, a leading European price comparison website, ultimately acquired by Microsoft (MSFT). Heath co-founded GoIndustry, an online marketplace that trades surplus industrial goods all over Europe, now part of GoIndustry DoveBid.\n\nAlphaSights opened its second office in New York City and third office in Hong Kong in 2011 before opening further offices in Dubai in 2013, San Francisco in 2015, Seoul, Hamburg and Shanghai in 2016. In 2013, the company was named the third fastest-growing company headquartered in the UK by \"The Sunday Times\" Fast Track 100 and has appeared on the list every year since, placing 11th in 2014, 21st in 2015, 41 in 2016 and 81 in 2017. In April 2017, AlphaSights was named as one of the fastest-growing and most disruptive companies headquartered in Europe by the \"Financial Times\".\n\nIn 2014, AlphaSights launched Knowledge for Good, its social impact business unit. Through Knowledge for Good, AlphaSights partners with social impact organizations including impact investors, social enterprises and nonprofit consultancies to provide its services at no or low cost. AlphaSights' partners include Acumen, Ashoka, TechnoServe, Nesta, and CDC Group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10974657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10974657", "title": "Ames Monument", "text": "Ames Monument\n\nThe Ames Monument is a large pyramid in Albany County, Wyoming, designed by Henry Hobson Richardson and dedicated to brothers Oakes Ames and Oliver Ames, Jr., Union Pacific Railroad financiers. The brothers garnered credit for connecting the nation by rail upon completion of the United States' First Transcontinental Railroad in 1869. Oakes, a U.S. representative to the United States Congress from Massachusetts, asserted near total control of its construction, whereas Oliver became president of the Union Pacific Railroad (1866 - 1871). In 1873 investigators implicated Oakes in fraud associated with financing of the railroad. Congress subsequently censured Oakes, who resigned in 1873. He died soon thereafter.\n\nThe Ames Monument marked the highest point on the transcontinental railroad at However, Union Pacific Railroad Company twice relocated the tracks further south, causing the town of Sherman that arose near the monument to become a ghost town.\n\nThe Ames Monument is located about east of Laramie, Wyoming, on a wind-blown, treeless summit south of Interstate 80 at the Vedauwoo exit. The monument is a four-sided, random ashlar pyramid, square at the base and high, constructed of light-colored native granite. The pyramid features an interior passage, now sealed, alongside the perimeter of the structure's base.\n\nNoted American architect H. H. Richardson designed the pyramid, which includes two tall bas-relief portraits of the Ames brothers by sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens on the east and west sides of the pyramid's top. Saint-Gaudens chiseled the bas-reliefs from Quincy, Massachusetts, granite. The north side, which at one time faced the railroad tracks, displays one-foot-high letters grouted in the granite noting: \"In Memory of Oakes Ames and Oliver Ames\". The monument is one of a half-dozen or more projects that Richardson did for the Ames family.\n\nThe pyramid is one of only two examples of Richardson's work west of the Mississippi River, the other being the Isaac H. Lionberger House in St. Louis less than two miles from the river. Richardson's monolithic structure employed rough-hewn granite boulders in its construction. The monument's stones at the base are five feet by eight feet and weigh thousands of pounds each. The pyramid narrows from the base to become progressively smaller towards the top at a ratio of four inches to the foot.\n\nThe audacity of building a transcontinental railroad in the 1860s was \"today's equivalent of the mission to Mars: Big, expensive and impossible,\" according to University of Wyoming historian Phil Roberts. President Abraham Lincoln reportedly told Oakes Ames that if he could get the transcontinental railroad built then he would be \"the most remembered man of the century.\" Lincoln personally recruited Oakes after progress by and financial support for Credit Mobilier of America, the construction company charged with building the railroad, ground to a halt. The Ames brothers succeeded where others failed and completed the transcontinental railway. However, in 1873 charges of financial fraud were leveled at Oakes, tarnishing his and the Union Pacific Railroad Company's reputation.\n\nPublic outcry towards Oakes and other \"Kings of Frauds\" associated with scandal threatened the Ames family reputation and the Ames Company that dated back to 1774 when the company started making steel-edged shovels. The Ames Company later sold axes and shovels to miners during the California Gold Rush. The company continued its heritage as earth movers by supplying the government shovels during the Civil War, for excavating the Panama Canal, for mining Pennsylvania coal fields, and for digging the New York City Subway.\n\nMemory of the financial scandal that surfaced in 1873 had not been forgotten when the Union Pacific Railroad Company built the monument honoring the Ames brothers during 1881-1882. The Union Pacific Railroad Board of Directors voted in 1875 to erect the grand Ames Monument, in part to help reclaim some of the company's luster lost during implications of fraud leveled earlier at Oakes Ames. Union Pacific stockholders subsequently authorized the construction at a meeting held in Boston on March 10, 1875.\n\nThe Norcross Brothers of Worcester, Massachusetts built the monument, employing some 85 workers who lived on site, \"where reportedly no liquor or gambling was allowed.\" Workers cut the stone for the pyramid from a granite outcropping common in the area. They then used oxen teams to skid the stone a half-mile to the work site. The rough-faced granite blocks used to construct the monument in many cases weigh several tons.\n\nWorkers constructed the pyramid about 300 yards south of the tracks on a small knoll. When completed in 1882, the Ames Monument stood south of, and above, the highest elevation of the original tracks of Union Pacific transcontinental railroad at . President Rutherford B. Hayes underscored the importance of the transcontinental railroad and thereby the Ames brothers by attending the monument's dedication ceremony.\nHowever, when completed in 1882, the Ames Monument was visited by many persons who were allowed to momentarily leave their trains in order to view the monolithic curiosity. It was said that when the construction of the monument was almost completed, some people had the opportunity of being lifted to the top of the monument by a special rig and from their breezy perch could view the surrounding area for a hundred miles in all directions.\n\nThe small town of Sherman arose at the site north of the tracks where trains stopped to change engines on their transcontinental journey. The stop provided a roundhouse with five stalls and a turntable, two section houses, and a windmill with water tank. Trains were inspected at Sherman before beginning the long descent from the Sherman Pass summit, either east towards Cheyenne or west across the high Dale Creek Bridge to the Laramie Valley. The town's death knell came in 1918. The railroad company closed its station house and relocated the tracks about three miles (5 km) south. Residents soon abandoned Sherman, leaving behind a small cemetery that is still present today.\n\nUnion Pacific donated the railroad monument to the state of Wyoming in 1983. The structure is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, and is maintained as a Wyoming state historic site. Time and possible vandalism have destroyed some of the features of the bas-relief portraits of the Ames brothers on the monument. The Ames Monument is open year-round, weather permitting.\n\nWork took place in 2010 and 2011 to restore the monument. On October 31, 2016, the site received National Historic Landmark status.\n\n"}
{"id": "5637163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637163", "title": "Andres Küng", "text": "Andres Küng\n\nAndres Küng (September 13, 1945 – December 10, 2002) was a Swedish journalist, writer, entrepreneur and politician of Estonian origin. He was born in Ockelbo in Gävleborg County to a family of refugees from Soviet occupied Estonia.\n\nAs he himself noted, Küng \"published more than 50 books, most on the Baltic States, thousands of articles and held innumerable lectures on why Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania should (and would) become independent again.\"\n\nKüng was active in both Swedish politics (member of the People's Party – Liberals) and Baltic émigré activities. He was the chairman of the Liberal Students Club of Stockholm between 1966 and 67. Later, he served as the Deputy Board member of the People's Party Youth League. During 1970–71, he was the acting Deputy member 1982 of Riksdag. Küng also participated in the Estonian Liberal Party in exile and several other organisations and campaigns for Baltic struggle for independence. He was a member of the party board for the Swedish Liberal Party from 1982 until 1991.\n\nIn November 1998, Andres Küng was awarded the Latvian Order of the Three Stars by the Latvian President Guntis Ulmanis. In February 1999, he was awarded the Estonian Order of the White Star by the Estonian President Lennart Meri.\n\nFor the complete list, see .\n\n"}
{"id": "52755254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52755254", "title": "Antonín Petrof", "text": "Antonín Petrof\n\nAntonín Petrof (August 15, 1839 – September 9, 1915) was a Czech piano maker.\nIn 1857, when Petrof was 18 years old, he was visited by his maternal uncle Jan Heitzmann at his family's Hradec Králové home. Heitzmann and his partner Hölzl were already known piano manufacturers in Vienna. Petrof learned the trade in Vienna and in 1864 returned to Bohemia, where he built his first piano. In 1865 he transformed his father's cabinetry enterprise in the old town square, behind the Cathedral of the Holy Spirit, into a piano-making workshop.\n\nIn 1866, a few months before the enveloping Battle of Königgrätz, Petrof registered his company, A. Petrof. After a brief compulsory interruption, during which the Kingdom of Prussia defeated the Austrian Empire, production resumed. In 1874 his company relocated to new premises on the outskirts of Hradec Králové.\n\nThe company grew, and in 1880 an auxiliary factory opened in Temesvár, Austria-Hungary (today Timișoara, Romania). A year later, in 1881, Petrof premiered his own keyboard and mechanical design. In 1883, production of the piano began.\n\nIn 1894–95 the first instruments were exported, and A. Petrof was quickly able to establish itself. A warehouse and comptoir were opened in Vienna. Clients included nobility and the imperial court. By the early 20th century, A. Petrof was the largest piano manufacturer in the monarchy.\n\nBy the time of Petrof's 1915 death, the company was supplying living rooms, concert halls and royal families across Europe. Its 30,000th piano had been delivered to Archduke Franz Ferdinand, heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire, two weeks before his assassination.\n\nIn 2008 the company began making luxury furniture, using the same skills and technology used to build grand pianos, in an effort to branch out and dodge ingravescent effects of the global financial crisis. Since that time, production has settled at 50% pianos, 50% furniture. Such diversification is characteristic of a survival strategy that has seen Petrof through two world wars and the Nazi invasion, as well as 40 years of the communist regime, during which, following forced nationalisation in 1948, it was incorporated into the state concern \"Piano and Organ Factory\". Under communist rule, though factory installations were expanded and production figures increased, instrument quality concomitantly declined. The current company president, Zuzana Ceralová Petrofová, was among tens of thousands of peaceful protesters who successfully demanded an end to the communist regime in 1989. \"During the 1930s crisis Petrof manufactured wooden railway sleepers,\" says Ms. Ceralová Petrofová, \"and during World War II it focused on grenade boxes.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "19930786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19930786", "title": "Berne Convention (1906)", "text": "Berne Convention (1906)\n\nThe Berne Convention (formally, the International Convention respecting the Prohibition of the Use of White (Yellow) Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Matches ()) of 1906 is a multilateral treaty negotiated in Berne, Switzerland, which prohibits the use of white phosphorus in the manufacture of matches. The treaty also prohibits the import and sale of such matches.\n\nThe background to the treaty was the extensive medical problems such as phossy jaw facing workers in match production. The treaty was concluded on 26 September 1906. It entered into force on 1 January 1912. The Convention remains in force for 48 states. Switzerland is the depositary for the treaty.\n\nIn 1925 Edward J. Phelan, future Director General of the International Labour Organization, stated that the establishment of the ILO \"may in one sense be traced to the Berne Convention of 1906\", partly as a result of lobbying by the International Association for Labour Legislation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2604874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2604874", "title": "Blue Area", "text": "Blue Area\n\nJinnah Avenue is an important road located in Blue Area, the main business district of Islamabad. The Blue Area is the commercial and business hub of Islamabad, Pakistan.\n\nIt is called the \"Blue Area\" because it was represented in blue color in the original design (master plan) of the planned city. The area is actually a corridor that runs along Islamabad's Khayaban-e-Quaid-e-Azam (also known as Jinnah Avenue), Islamabad's primary arterial road which leads up to the main government buildings. It is characterized by clean, wide roads and tall buildings among the panoramic greenery of the adjacent areas. It is limited by Nazimuddin Road to the northwest and A.K.M. Fazl-ul-Haq Road to the southeast and Ibn-e-sina road to the south west. The Blue Area has recently received a significant amount of foreign direct investment. Recently, construction completed on The Centaurus, a multi-purpose complex in the Blue Area which has residential and office towers, and a luxury hotel.\nIt was reported on 4 July 2016, the first state-of-the-art National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) mega center would open in Islamabad's Blue Area with a capacity of processing 2000 applicants daily.\n\nThe Islamabad Stock Exchange building is also situated in the Blue Area. On 11 January 2016, the three stock exchanges namely Islamabad Stock Exchange (ISE), Lahore Stock Exchange (LSE) and Karachi Stock Exchange (KSE) all merged to become Pakistan Stock Exchange (PSX).\n\nDesigned by British architectural firm WS Atkins, it consists of three skyscrapers, containing corporate offices, residential apartments, and a hotel. It is between Sectors F-8 and G-8, primarily situated at the junction of the two main artery roads of Islamabad, \"Jinnah Avenue\" and \"Faisal Avenue\". \"The Centaurus Mövenpick Hotel\" is under-construction and is expected to open in the first quarter of 2018. The estimated cost for building the complex was $350 million USD. On 28 April 2013, a \"Mothers Day March\" (Mamta March) was organized in three major cities of Pakistan where people gathered at \"The Centaurus Mall\" in Islamabad, Fortress Stadium in Lahore and Port Grand in Karachi to participate in this march.\n\nThe Saudi Pak Tower is an office building in the Blue Area. It comprises 19 floors where more than a dozen multinational companies are operating, including European companies, American TV channels and multinational companies from Chinese and Middle Eastern regions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32764168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32764168", "title": "Breakup fee", "text": "Breakup fee\n\nA breakup fee (sometimes called a termination fee) is a penalty set in takeover agreements, to be paid if the target backs out of a deal (usually because it has decided instead to accept a more attractive offer). The breakup fee is ostensibly to compensate the original acquirer for the cost of the time and resources expended in negotiating the original agreement. A breakup fee also serves to inhibit competing bids, since such bids would have to cover the cost of the breakup fee as well.\n\nA reverse breakup fee is a penalty to be paid to the target company if the acquirer backs out of the deal, usually because it can’t obtain financing. Reasons for such fees include the possibility of lawsuits, disruption of business operations, and the loss of key personnel during the period when the company is \"in play.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2639188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2639188", "title": "Cleve Cartmill", "text": "Cleve Cartmill\n\nCleve Cartmill (June 21, 1908 in Platteville, Wisconsin – February 11, 1964 in Orange County, California) was an American writer of science fiction and fantasy short stories. He is best remembered for what is sometimes referred to as \"the Cleve Cartmill affair\", when his 1944 story \"Deadline\" attracted the attention of the FBI by reason of its detailed description of a nuclear weapon similar to that being developed by the highly classified Manhattan Project.\n\nBefore embarking on his career as a writer for pulp magazines, Cartmill had a wide number of jobs including newspaperman, radio operator and accountant, as well as, ironically, a short spell at the American Radium Products Company. Many of his earliest stories, from 1941 onwards, were published in John W. Campbell's magazines \"Unknown\" and \"Astounding Science Fiction\". This was at the start of World War II, when Campbell found himself short of material because many of his regular writers were away on military service, from which Cartmill was exempt for medical reasons.\n\nCartmill's writing career was undistinguished but competent. In his book \"A Requiem for Astounding\", Alva Rogers expresses the opinion that \"Cartmill wrote with an easy and colloquial fluidity that made his stories eminently readable\". In Fred Smith's history of \"Unknown Worlds\", Smith praises several of Cartmill's dark fantasy stories as such as \"No Graven Image\", \"The Bargain\" and \"Hell Hath Fury\", describing them as \"original and entertaining\". Cartmill's \"Unknown\" stories, like others appearing in that publication, tend to be either humorous tales or horror stories. They deal with concepts such as ghouls, demons and Death.\n\nOutside his writing career Cartmill was likely best known, at the time, for being the co-inventor of the Blackmill system of high speed typography.\n\nHis son, Matt Cartmill, is a Professor of Biological Anthropology at Boston University and a science writer to whom Heinlein partly dedicated his 1947 book \"Rocket Ship Galileo\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11448416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11448416", "title": "Community association manager", "text": "Community association manager\n\nA community association manager is a manager of a condominium or homeowners association (including single-family home subdivisions, townhouses, or mixed-use development). The position is frequently confused with a property manager, who deals with individual rental units or a group of rental units, like an apartment complex. The community manager deals with property owners and homeowners.\n\nPeople with this position are also sometimes called community managers, which is distinct from online community managers.\n\nOn-site manager: This type of manager works in the community which he or she manages.\n\nPortfolio manager: This type of community manager oversees several communities and is often paid on a commission basis.\n\nLarge-scale manager: Typically, large scale managers are also on-site managers. The Community Associations Institute offers certification for Large-scale managers and notes the following description: This designation allows a professional holding the PCAM (Professional Community Association Manager) designation to specialize in issues facing larger community associations. To be considered for this designation, the candidate must already be a manager of a large-scale community of over 1200 units, and a budget of at least $1.5m.\n\nThe state of Florida requires community association managers to hold a license. Performing duties as a CAM without a license is a violation of Florida Statutes. \n\nA link to the Department of Professional and Business Regulation, as well as a Frequently Asked Question PDF file, is included in the Reference section below.\n\nOrganizations like the Community Associations Institute offer rigorous courses for professional managers to obtain their certification. The Community Association Managers International Certification Board's (CAMICB) (A different organization) provides internationally accredited certifications. Some common certifications include Certified Manager of Community Associations (CMCA) offered through the CAMICB, Association Management Specialist (AMS), and Professional Community Association Manager (PCAM). Being able to find a professional management company is an important task for many board members.\n\nFlorida Specific Resource: Department of Business and Professional Regulation (DBPR) \nhttp://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/pro/cam/\n\nFlorida \"CAM\" FAQ page (PDF): http://www.myfloridalicense.com/dbpr/pro/cam/documents/cam_faq.pdf\n"}
{"id": "38609146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38609146", "title": "Conscious business", "text": "Conscious business\n\nConscious business enterprises and people (also sometimes referred to under the label conscious capitalism) are those that choose to follow a business strategy, in which they seek to benefit both human beings and the environment. The Conscious Business movement in the US, which emerged from the theory of corporate social responsibility, pushes for \"values-based\" economic values where values represent social and environmental concerns at both global and local scales. This effort is related to not-just-for-profit business models, conscious consumerism, and socially responsible investing.\n\nThere is an alternative way of thinking about Conscious Business emerging in the UK, and perhaps other countries, which tries to avoid reification, regarding it less as a thing or a type of business which can be categorised, and more as an ongoing process including awareness, self-awareness, awareness of purpose, practice (social theory) and relationships.\n\nIt is generally agreed upon that the product or service of a conscious business should not be intrinsically harmful to humans or the environment. However, it is possible for such a business to be taking part in the conscious business movement if it is taking conscious steps to be more aware of its social and environmental effects, and to adopt more beneficial social or environmental practices.\n\nMost conscious businesses subscribe to a Triple Bottom Line model of success. They aim to provide positive value in the domains of people, planet, and profit.\n\nThis is what distinguishes the entity as a business from the general social enterprise. The degree of understanding or \"consciousness\" of any conflict of interest between the profit motive and social goods varies widely from the standard sloganeering capital accumulating firm (\"don't be evil\") to those who seek nothing more than break-even to pay for their operations, are completely employee owned, etc..\n\nA conscious business seeks to benefit both the external livelihood as well as the internal lives of its shareholders and employees. Furthermore, the business seeks to benefit all stakeholders including manufacturers, affected communities, and humanity at large. Some trends in conscious business which have arisen out of these efforts include:\n\nA conscious business will seek to minimize its impact on the environment, and replenish the environment where it is able. Conscious businesses may choose to benefit the environment in many different ways, some trends include:\n\nMany conscious businesses choose to use their resources to benefit social and environmental programs that are not directly related to the creation or distribution of the product or service. Frequently, a conscious business will donate employee paid time, money, or products towards various non-profit organizations. Sometimes a conscious business will create a foundation, which works with one particular cause. Also, some conscious businesses will become involved with social or political campaigns to protect the environment, animals, or people. Conscious businesses will sometimes use significant amounts of their profit towards these causes.\nFurthermore, a conscious business will sometimes work closely with suppliers in either a farming or manufacturing community in a developing country, and help to develop the community economically and replenish it environmentally.\n\nIn 2015 Humanity’s Team, an NGO, engaged with the Goi Peace Foundation of Japan, the Club of Budapest, and the Fowler Center for Business as an Agent of World Benefit at Case Western Reserve University to draft the Conscious Business Declaration. Self-described as \"A New Standard for Business in the 21st Century,\" it took over a year to write the declaration, and it was officially made public in early 2016. People can show their support for the declaration by \"signing\" it online.\n\nAs a global community of business leaders we are committed to developing the awareness and skills needed to consciously evolve our organizations in alignment with these principles:\n\n\nTo term a business a conscious business is different from the concept of a socially responsible business: although, of course, a conscious business is likely to be socially responsible. Being a conscious business does not only mean implementing a local community program, or creating a company foundation. A business could implement one of these programs and still not be aware or respond to the fact that the business as a whole is doing more harm than good.\n\nThe term conscious business implies that a business will seek to be conscious of its impact on the world in various spheres, and continue this inquiry over time. It is concerned with both its impact on a human’s inner and outer world as well as animal and environmental well-being. Furthermore, a conscious business considers both short-term and long-term effects of its actions or inactions. A conscious business evolves as does the methods that a business can and chooses to be of benefit to the world and to function with awareness. Therefore, though conscious businesses will be socially responsible, the term \"conscious business\" holds larger connotations for the businesses' actions than does social responsibility.\n\nMany believe that Anita Roddick pioneered the conscious business movement with her company, The Body Shop in 1976. This company has been an environmental leader, and worked to support various activist causes including putting an end to animal testing, and defending human rights.\n\nAn overwhelming amount of conscious businesses can be found in the health food industry as well as the LOHAS (lifestyles of health and sustainability) market. However, today conscious businesses can be found emerging in almost all aspects of the business world.\n\nWhole Foods cofounder, John Mackey, is another pioneer in the movement along with Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz. Large corporations as well as small boutique agencies and individuals embrace the movement despite pressure to earn money at any cost. They see business based on ethics and social responsibility versus personal gain. Public relations and brand specialist Sarni Jaye based her business on working only with conscious brands to help them grow and achieve their desired mission. USA Today reported about the wave of millennials embracing conscious business. Other businesses cited are Trader Joe's, The Container Store, Nordstrom, and more.\n\nThere are various agencies and companies that catalogue the social and environmental practices of businesses for consumer use, as well as companies which consult with businesses to increase their awareness and beneficial practices in the world.\n\nConscious business is about people who are aware of the impact each of their habits and actions has on their environment (people and planet). It is about people who live their lives based on knowing that everything is interconnected. It is about people, who know who they are:\n\nThere's a huge trend towards more sustainable business practices. Environmental sustainability, however, has little to do with conscious business. Organizations can be highly sustainable, but still run in an unconscious way. A conscious business, however, will not maintain unsustainable business practices.\n\nSome are expressing caution about the way that conscious business might be reduced to a formulaic framework and schema. The concern is that these play down the attention that we give to everyday practices and how people relate to each other.\n\nThe alternative view is that the practice of conscious business aims to raise awareness of the hurly-burly of everyday life and help people notice those assumptions that influence our perceptions and practice – to become more aware. From that emerges consciousness of purpose; it also leads to adoption of many of the approaches outlined by Kofman, Mackey and others, and to the outcomes they point to (better long term business performance, for example).\n\nThis approach is aligned with a view of business derived from Complexity theory and organizations.\n\nThe idea of conscious business as a reflexive approach – through noticing and awareness as we act – suggests that there are practical implications for OD (Organization Development) and HR (Human Resources) professionals. For example, such professionals may find it useful to highlight the importance of noticing group dynamics, power, and other group phenomena. And ultimately to question their own assumptions about the purpose of business.\n\nIn this way, this reflexive approach links back to the more ethical, but perhaps sometimes reified definitions, of conscious business.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28942421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28942421", "title": "Cornell Club of New York", "text": "Cornell Club of New York\n\nThe Cornell Club–New York, usually referred to as The Cornell Club, is a private club located in Midtown Manhattan, New York City, New York, USA. Its membership is restricted to alumni and faculty of Cornell University, family of Cornellians, business associates of Members, and graduates of The Club's affiliate schools.\n\nThe Cornell Club's clubhouse is a fourteen-story building located at 6 East 44th Street between Madison Avenue and Fifth Avenue.\n\nIn 1889, the first Cornell Club was formed by Cornell University graduates. The current 14-story clubhouse located in midtown Manhattan at 6 East 44th Street was formerly the offices of the Chicago Pneumatic Tube Corporation. The building was a gift to the University and was renovated by the firm of Gensler & Associates of San Francisco, CA. The clubhouse opened its doors on December 1, 1989.\n\nPast Locations:\n\nMembership in the Cornell Club is restricted to alumni, faculty, and students of the Ivy League institution Cornell University, as well as alumni of a short list of nine affiliated schools. This short list is: Brown, Colgate, Duke, Georgetown, Notre Dame, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Stanford, Tulane, Wake Forest, and Trinity College Dublin. Most members are alumni of Cornell University.\n\nAll members enjoy full use of the clubhouse facilities and its services, except for the Health & Fitness Center, for which the Club charges additional fees. The Club includes a bar, The Big Red Tap & Grill, and a restaurant, The Cayuga Room. In addition, the Club has four banquet/meeting rooms, a business center, 48 overnight guest rooms, and a library. Members may use the squash courts at the Yale Club of New York City.\n\nDues are on a sliding scale, based on age and proximity to the Club. Like most private clubs, members of the Club are given reciprocal benefits at clubs around the United States and the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18071308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18071308", "title": "Dov Moran", "text": "Dov Moran\n\nDov Moran (; born 1955) is an Israeli entrepreneur, inventor and investor, best known as the inventor of the USB memory stick, and one of the most prominent Israeli hi-tech leaders in the world.\n\nMoran was born in Ramat Gan, Israel, to a family of Holocaust survivors who immigrated to Israel from Poland. His father, Baruch Mintz, came from a well-off family from Krosno. The only Mintz family members who managed to survive the Holocaust were Dov's father and grandfather who began a new life in Israel. Dov's mother, Bina Gever, immigrated to Israel with her family who escaped Blonie.\n\nHis interest in technology was obvious from his childhood days. At the age of ten he used to order electronic components and digital watch parts from MAD magazine, with the intention to create new improved devices, however, as he later testified, no significant results were achieved. In the following years, his curiosity and talent started to lead to breakthroughs. At the age of 16 he was sent to an annual course in computers held in Tel-Aviv University. Back then, in order to write a program you needed to mark cards dedicated to that with a pen. After three months of struggling to deal with that system, he wrote his first program. His programming skills improved while obtaining a Bachelor of Science degree in Electrical Engineering (with honors) at the Technion – Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa. That was when he decided \"to start his own company”.\n\nMoran served in the Israeli Navy for seven years and was commander of its advanced microprocessor department. Prior to becoming an entrepreneur, Moran was an independent consultant in the computer industry.\n\nMoran formed M-Systems in 1989, a pioneer in the flash data storage market. The company invented the USB flash drive (DiskOnKey), the FlashDisk (DiskOnChip) as well as several other innovative flash data storage devices. Under Moran's leadership, M-Systems grew to $US1 billion revenue within 18 years, and at the end of 2006 it was acquired by SanDisk Corp (NSDQ: SNDK) for $US1.6 billion.\n\nAfter the sale of M-Systems, Moran founded Modu, a company with a new modular phone concept, which eventually sold its patents to Google in 2011. These patents are the basis for Google's modular phone project, called Project Ara. After Modu was sold to Google, more than 30 hi-tech innovative companies were founded by Modu's ex-employees.\n\nDuring his time at Modu, Dov was also the chairman of Tower Semiconductor, a developer and manufacturer of semiconductors and integrated circuits. During his tenure, he turned the struggling company around towards profitability. Moran was also chairman of Biomas, a developer of innovative pharmaceuticals.\n\nIn 2011, Moran founded Comigo, a company with a vision of revolutionizing the TV viewing experience. The company developed a multi-screen platform for Pay TV operators. Moran is acting as the chairman of the company.\n\nMoran has been involved with a number of inventions, mostly in the field of infrastructure technologies. He says he has filed over 40 patents and patent applications. Inventions he's been involved with include:\n\nIn January 2015, after several years of successful angel investing, Moran founded Grove ventures, a $US100 million venture capital fund primarily investing in early-stage startups with сutting edge technologies such as semi-conductor, sensors, artificial intelligence and Digital Health. In October 2017, Grove Ventures raised $110 million in commitments.\n\nHis personal portfolio of companies include:\nIn addition to several investments (till Feb. 2018, the number is 7) made by the fund.\n\nMoran perceives education as the grounding for innovation. As such, he mentors Israeli entrepreneurs, assisting in converting research and innovation to business. He lectures extensively in universities and schools and sits on the advisory board of Tel Aviv University Momentum Fund. In addition, Moran has invested in Learni, which brings technology into everyday learning system, and enables rich digital textbooks, in a managed interactive classroom environment.\n\nHe is an active member of the Korean Israel Business Forum, having spoken at a number of conferences, and in 2014, was asked by the Korean government to spearhead a project aimed at growing innovation in Seoul, the capital of Korea.\n\nHis book, \"100 Doors - An introduction to entrepreneurship\", was published by Yedioth Book on September 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24235333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24235333", "title": "Employment practices liability", "text": "Employment practices liability\n\nEmployment practices liability is an area of United States labor law that deals with wrongful termination, sexual harassment, discrimination, invasion of privacy, false imprisonment, breach of contract, emotional distress, and wage and hour law violations. It may be categorized as a form of professional liability. Employment practices liability insurance (EPL) is sold as a type of management liability insurance, which is related to professional liability insurance.\n\nMost commonly, employment practices liability deals with laws and protections brought under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the ADA (Americans with Disabilities Act) of 1990, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, ADEA (Age Discrimination in Employment Act) of 1967, and Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA). The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) interprets and enforces these laws.\n\nThe EEOC recognizes eleven types of employment practices discrimination: age, disability, equal pay/compensation, genetic information, national origin, pregnancy, race/color, religion, retaliation, sex, and sexual harassment.\n\nAnalysis of annual claims totals suggests that EPL claims rates correspond to unemployment rates: from 2007 to 2008, total claims in the U.S. jumped 13% as mass layoffs increased by roughly a third. In 2012, charges of retaliation, race, and sex discrimination (including harassment and pregnancy) were the most common types of discrimination that prompted EPL filings.\n\nA growing product on the insurance markets is employment practices liability insurance (EPL), a type of policy that business owners can buy to protect their organizations against employee suits for rights protected under acts above. More recently, with the expansion of privacy law(s), employee privacy concerns have come to the fore as private employee data is stored electronically. This is not always covered under an EPL policy, but the insurance industry has responded by offering cyber liability and network security policies.\n\nImportantly, there are both federal and state statutes that govern an employer's liability to its employees. Laws also differ from state to state; e.g., California, is often considered a pro-employee state when it comes to employers' liability.\n\nLike most kinds of professional liability insurance, EPL insurance policies operate on a claims-made basis. This means that policyholders can only receive insurance benefits if they are covered both at the time of the discrimination incident that triggered the claim and at the time when the claim is filed.\n"}
{"id": "31841488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31841488", "title": "Environmental regulation of small and medium enterprises", "text": "Environmental regulation of small and medium enterprises\n\nSmall and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are defined by the European Commission as having less than 250 employees, independent (with no shareholder having over a 25% stake in the business) and with an annual turnover of no more than €50 million or annual balance sheet of €43 million.\n\nSMEs have been identified as a problem area in the field of environmental regulation. Whilst the individual environmental impacts of SMEs are generally small in comparison to those of large corporations, the cumulative environmental impacts of the sector are large. They also pose particular problems for environmental governance, showing little reception to new environment policy instruments (NEPIs) such as market-based instruments, voluntary agreements and informational devices.\n\nThere are approximately 4.7 million businesses in the UK of which 99.7% are SMEs. The large size of the sector lends itself to the idea that environmental impacts are cumulatively large. Whilst there has been limited research into the quantitative impacts of SMEs, the Marshall Report estimates that 60% of total carbon emissions in the UK are attributable to SMEs. SMEs are also responsible for around 60% of commercial waste and 43% of all serious industrial pollution incidents. The perception of SME environmental behaviour is generally poor. Failure to pursue eco-efficient measures has often been attributed to low levels of awareness and lack of resources. It is theorised that as the majority of SMEs serve local markets they are less likely to be exposed to international pressures or incentives, including those likely to promote eco-innovation. It has also been suggested that civil society has less concern for smaller firms’ actions, being more likely to direct their concern towards larger organisations which are seen to have the biggest impact.\n\nWhilst the 1980s and 1990s saw a shift in the perceived relationship between the environment and business practice it has only translated into actions for prominently large firms. This change in environmental business ethics stems mainly from ideas of ‘ecological modernisation', a school of thought advanced most notably by German scholars Joseph Huber and Martin Janicke. They challenged Max Weber’s theory of bureaucratic rationality. A theory which positions government as best placed to resolve environmental problems. Instead, the discourse of ecological modernisation claims that sufficient innovative capacity will come only from industry itself as it has the expertise and means to do so. This is posited with the idea of ‘steering’ industry onto more environmentally beneficial pathways through financial incentives.\n\nThis shift is clearly visible in the 1980 World Conservation Strategy which pushes environmental actions from reactive to anticipatory. The shift towards thinking in terms of ‘ecological modernisation’ has also involved a movement to ‘smart’ regulatory instruments involving more reflexive forms of law (law which pushes businesses to reflect on and regulate their own practices) such as Environmental Management Systems, Environmental Reporting and Disclosure Strategies, Market-Based Instruments and the social license. The latter of these being important in Corporate Social Responsibility.\n\nWhilst ‘smart’ regulation is a promising concept, SMEs have been slow on the uptake and have generally been observed to retain a reactive approach to positive environmental actions. Research has often suggested that a more comprehensive approach will be needed to improve environmental performance in the SME sector, these are based on three distinct theoretical perspectives;\n\n\nIt has been suggested that there is not yet a substantial structure in the UK which forces environmental matters onto the business agendas of UK SMEs. The choice of policy instruments in the UK has tended not to acknowledge the structural differences between large firms and SMEs. For example, the EU White Paper has often promoted a sectoral and ‘one-size-fits-all’ approach to addressing the environmental impacts of business activities. Although acknowledging structural differences between industries is important, this distinction alone may undermine the recognition of important differences in large corporations and SMEs that may affect the way in which environmental issues are perceived or acted upon. With regard to policy action, the White Paper has influenced the creation of ‘sectoral sustainability strategies’, voluntary conglomerates of firm representatives from specific industrial sectors. Such associations have been criticised for being unrepresentative of the interests due to the unequal power relations between large and small firms.\n\nSMEs are also perceived to often lack characteristics that would otherwise enable them to engage effectively with the sustainable development agenda, barriers for effective engagement being both internal and external to the firm. It is thought that a lack of institutional enfranchisement of SMEs in the UK is also a key factor in understanding why environmental policies may be ineffective at encouraging proactive environmental performance within smaller firms.\n\nWhilst CSR strategies have been intensively adopted by large and publicly visible corporations, the effectiveness of this type of social regulation with SMEs remains questionable. This is partly due to their size, as their smaller-scale activities are less visible within society. It is thought that many larger firms develop CSR strategies voluntarily to avoid disclosure for bad practice and to maintain and develop a shareholder base. Small firms however are not subject to the same incentives for practicing CSR. This is because they are defined by a limited shareholder base and are unlikely to exhibit environmental and social bad practice on a scale worthy of media attention. These ideas are exemplified in a study by Lynch-Wood and Williamson which has suggested that SME environmental practice is driven by ‘business performance’ and ‘regulation’, rather than the ‘business case’ (i.e. maintaining and improving shareholder base) which CSR practice stems from. It is also apparent that smaller firms may not have the available financial resources for pursuing costly CSR strategies (CSR programmes typically involving funding community projects).\n\nVoluntary measures as a whole have been problematized by some scholars with a suggestion that environmental practice in SMEs is often constrained by free-market decision-making frames that encourage profitability to the detriment of beyond compliance social and environmental behaviour.\n\nEnvironmental Management Systems (EMS) such as ISO 14001 and EMAS seek to provide all businesses (regardless of size and industry) with the means to develop systematic approaches to improving environmental performance. ISO 14001 was purportedly written with the chipshop owner in mind so as to defend its use across the entire EU business community. Whilst EMS is supposed to be suited for SME use, rates of uptake have been marginal. It is estimated that in 1999 only 24% of UK businesses registered with EMAS were SMEs, whilst no figures are available for ISO 14001 based on company size\n\nThe most promoted incentive for businesses implementing EMS is generally cost-savings. A pan-EU survey of businesses using EMAS identified that cost-savings were indeed the biggest perceived benefit to arise from implementation across enterprises in Europe however SMEs placed this second claiming EMAS mainly benefited corporate image.\n\nWhilst ISO 14001 was designed with the chip shop man in mind, the requirements of EMS should not be underestimated. The ISO 14001 follows a basic structure requiring business to define an environmental policy, environmental aspects register (detailing applicable environmental legislation) and annually reviewed objectives and targets (in reference to environmental aspects). Without support or training, these elements can be difficult to understand. ISO 14001 requires internal auditing(on an annual basis) meaning extra constraints such as time dedicated to staff training (as it cannot be undertaken by the individual responsible for overseeing the management system). Certification and Validation are expensive and SMEs especially may require support from consultants, further adding to costs.\n\nWhilst these financial burdens may have minimal impact on larger corporations, for smaller firms the costs of implementation and upkeep may out-weigh the cost savings achieved through the EMS. If SMEs are to pursue EMS it is likely to be a result of supply chain pressure rather than ideas of financial gain.\n\nThe diffusion of cleaner technologies and self-regulation (i.e. through the use of EMS) has been limited in the SME sector. This is thought to offer a key challenge to policy makers as SMEs lack sufficient network relations. A lack of resources often entails that the firm will only participate in limited network activities for example with only one prominent customer or supplier. This limited network activity limits the scope for transferring information on technological innovations.\n\nMore recently structural problems regarding SME governance have been recognised by the European Union. In June 2008 the ‘Small Business Act’ (SBA) for Europe was adopted. The act seeks to promote a greater range of incentives for SME good practice with the aim of bringing the sector in line with the sustainable development agenda.\n\nPrinciple 9 ‘Turning environmental challenges into opportunities’ is seen as pivotal in steering SMEs onto more environmentally active pathways. In line with this principle several member states have provided energy efficiency funding either through subsidies or encouraging loan conditions as well as varying degrees of cost-free consultancy support to SMEs.\n\nThe SBA review invites member states to use an \"SME test\" to assess whether disproportionate effects will be realised in relation to enterprise size. It has also been recognised that greater regulatory incentives need to be given for SMEs to adopt ISO 14001 or EMAS. The review paper sets out to provide greater networking support to SMEs. It is theorised that by facilitating the use of networks it will be possible for information resources regarding eco-innovations to be transferred across a broader array of firms, including those from the SME sector. The SBA review also recognises that ‘whilst SMEs have some market incentives to optimise their resource use, in many cases the market signals are not easy to identify’ they also state that ‘SMEs face challenges of limited information, time and human and financial resources’. It has been suggested that to overcome these challenges it will be necessary to develop incentives such as financial assistance. It is said that the Enterprise Europe Network will provide incentives for good environmental practice by offering assistance to SMEs marketing products and services resulting from best practice, particularly those adopting low carbon technologies.\n\nAlthough the aims of the SBA for Europe are seen as necessary for catalysing positive change in the environmental business performance of the SME sector it is not legally binding.\n"}
{"id": "3912771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3912771", "title": "Ernst van der Beugel", "text": "Ernst van der Beugel\n\nErnst van der Beugel (; 2 February 1918, Amsterdam – 29 September 2004, The Hague) was a Dutch economist, businessman, diplomat, and politician of the Labour Party.\n\nVan der Beugel graduated in economics from the University of Amsterdam in 1941 and received a Ph.D. from Erasmus University Rotterdam in 1966 on the dissertation \"From Marshall plan to Atlantic Partnership\" (with a foreword of Henry A. Kissinger).\n\nIn 1945 he joined the Dutch Ministry of Transport, moving to the Ministry of Economic affairs in 1946. In 1947 he was Secretary to the Dutch national delegation at the first Paris conference on the Marshall Plan. Between 1957 and 1958 he was statesecretary for foreign affairs for the Labour Party in the fourth Cabinet Drees. He took over as permanent secretary of the Bilderberg Group in 1960, upon the death of Józef Retinger. From 1961 to 1963 he was president of Dutch airline KLM. \nFrom 1966 to 1984 he was professor of international relations at Leiden University.\n\nHis sister was the author and journalist (1914–2003).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55296156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55296156", "title": "European Digital SME Alliance", "text": "European Digital SME Alliance\n\nEuropean Digital SME Alliance is a community of ICT small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Its members are national sectorial digital SME associations in 28 countries and regions in the EU and neighboring countries, all together it associates more than 20.000 SMEs. DIGITAL SME was established in 2007 (back then it was named Pan European ICT & eBusiness Network for SME) to represent the voice of ICT SMEs and their interests in the European institutions and other international organisations. DIGITAL SME is the first European association of the ICT sector exclusively. A current president is Oliver Grün.\n\nFollowing a prominent public discussion on patentability of software, the Pan European ICT & eBusiness Network for SMEs was founded in 2007. Its establishment was initiated by UEAPME (European Association of Craft, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises), whose member DIGITAL SME has been from then on.\n\nIn 2013, the Pan European ICT & eBusiness Network for SMEs was among the founding members of SBS (Small Business Standards). Since then, DIGITAL SME representatives have always been appointed to SBS Board, and its experts have been taking part in the technical committees of European standardisation bodies: George Sharkov – ETSI TC CYBER expert, Massimo Vanetti – OneM2M expert, Fabio Guasconi – ISO/IEC JCT 1 SC 27 expert, George Babinov – ETSI ATTM expert, Emil Dimitrov – ETSI TCCE expert. In addition, DIGITAL SME and SBS representative prof. Vladimir Poulkov was elected as a vice chairman of the ETSI general assembly in 2016.\n\nIn 2016, the Pan European ICT & eBusiness Network for SMEs has changed its name to European DIGITAL SME Alliance. The same year, it became a founding member of another important body – European Cyber Security Organisation (ECSO). DIGITAL SME is particularly active also in the management of ECSO: its President Oliver Grün was appointed as SME member of ECSO Managing Board and of the Partnership Board, while DIGITAL SME’s Secretary General Sebastiano Toffaletti is chairing the WG4 - Support to SMEs, coordination with countries (in particular East and Central EU) and regions.\n\nThe same year (2016), DIGITAL SME has also became a member and a pledger of the newly created Digital Skills and Jobs Coalition - an initiative created by the European Commission to tackle e-skills gap in Europe.\n\nIn the period of 2015-2016, DIGITAL SME was campaigning for the creation of an open market for data usage, where both manufacturers and users of data-producing machines are entitled to use the data. DIGITAL SME’s recommendations were taken up by the European Commission that announced the Communication on Building a European Data Economy and accompanying Staff Working document. The reference was made to DIGITAL SME’s position paper (published earlier in 2015).\n\nIn May 2017, European DIGITAL SME Alliance launched the #digitalSME4skills campaign that was initiated in the framework of Digital Skills and Jobs Coalition. The campaign calls European SMEs to train young professionals and help them gaining digital skills through Apprenticeship schemes. In addition, DIGITAL SME President Oliver Grün joined the Coalition’s governing board.\n\nIn July 2017, reacting to the upcoming review of European Cybersecurity Strategy, European DIGITAL SME Alliance has published its position paper on cybersecurity, developed in a cooperation with ECSO.\n\nSince its establishment in 2007, DIGITAL SME was guided by 5 presidents:\n\nMembers of the European DIGITAL SME Alliance are national associations of ICT SMEs in European Union and neighboring countries. The member organisations are:\n\nEuropean DIGITAL SME Alliance has the following goals:\n\nEuropean DIGITAL SME Alliance performs the following activities:\n\nUNICORN is a Horizon 2020 project that aims at simplifying the design, deployment and management of multi-cloud services. DIGITAL SME acts as a project communications coordinator, and is reaching out to SMEs’ community.\n\nSABINA is an EU funded Horizon 2020 that aims at developing new technology and financial models to exploit synergies between electrical flexibility and the thermal inertia of buildings . DIGITAL SME is in charge of all standardisation related activities of the SABINA project . These include analysis of standards landscape in the scope of SABINA and provision of recommendations on the elevation of SABINA project items to formal standards.\n\neCF Alliance is an Erasmus+ project that aims at developing ICT vocational education training programmes and certifications based on eCF framework and the ESCO IT occupations . Main DIGITAL SME responsibility in the project – project governance, and management of the Stakeholders’ Committee.\n\ncyberwatching.eu is a Horizon 2020 project which seeks to create and maintain an Observatory of the European and national research and innovation projects in the field of cybersecurity . DIGITAL SME is responsible for stakeholders’ (especially SMEs’) engagement, early validation and animation of the end-users club for SMEs and the marketplace.\n\nICT Sectoral approach in SBS Digital SME is responsible for the implementation and coordination of all the ICT sectoral activities within the Working Programme of the Small Business Standards . This includes, but is not limited to, representation of ICT SMEs’ interests in the standardisation processes at European and international standardization bodies, awareness raising activities among the SMEs (but also among the policy makers, other organisations, etc.) about the benefits of standards.\n\nEuropean DIGITAL SME Alliance is:\n"}
{"id": "17807412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17807412", "title": "Extrusion coating", "text": "Extrusion coating\n\nExtrusion coating is the coating of a molten web of synthetic resin onto a substrate material. It is a versatile coating technique used for the economic application of various plastics, notably polyethylene, onto paperboard, corrugated fiberboard, paper, aluminium foils, cellulose, Non-wovens, or plastic films.\n\nThe actual process of extrusion coating involves extruding resin from a slot die at temperatures up to 320°C directly onto the moving web which may then passed through a nip consisting of a rubber covered pressure roller and a chrome plated cooling roll. The latter cools the molten film back into the solid state and also imparts the desired finish to the plastic surface. The web is normally run much faster than the speed at which the resin is extruded from the die, creating a coating thickness which is in proportion to the speed ratio and the slot gap. \n\nExtrusion laminating is a similar process except that the extruded hot molten resin acts as the bonding medium to a second web of material.\n\nCo-extrusion is, again, a similar process but with two, or more, extruders coupled to a single die head in which the individually extruded melts are brought together and finally extruded as a multi-layer film.\n\nThe market for extrusion coating includes a variety of end-use applications such as liquid packaging, photographic, flexible packaging, mill and industrial wrappings, transport packaging, sack linings, building, envelopes, medical/hygiene, and release base.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1010480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1010480", "title": "Felisa Rincón de Gautier", "text": "Felisa Rincón de Gautier\n\nFelisa Rincón de Gautier (born Felisa Rincón Marrero) (also known as Doña Fela) (January 9, 1897 – September 16, 1994) was the first woman to be elected as the Mayor of a capital city in The Americas.\n\nRincón de Gautier was born on January 9, 1897 in Ceiba, Puerto Rico. The oldest of all siblings (Felisa, Josefina, Cecilia, Esilda, Ramón, Rafael, Enrique and Rita), she was politically influenced by her father, attorney Enrique Rincón Plumey, family of an earlier Mayor of Yabucoa. Her mother, teacher Rita Marrero Rivera, died when she was around 11 years old. However, her father was determined to give her the best education possible. She went to school in Fajardo, Humacao and Santurce although she did not graduate from high school; in the summers she visited her uncle in San Lorenzo where she learned how to prepare medications pharmacy and became a pharmacist. \nOf Spanish descent; her direct paternal grandfather Francisco Rincón Martín came from Salamanca, Spain.\n\nAfter her mother died, her father married Mercedes Acha, the mother of her half brother Manuel. Felisa ran the household and raised her younger brothers and sisters.\n\nIn the early 20th Century, \"there was no welfare on the island; no social department to provide money or clothing or food for the poor (but) no jíbaro would let another jíbaro starve. This was the most important truth she learned. The jíbaros were a people steeped in tradition, the noblest of which was their hospitality\" (Ruth Gruber, Felisa Rincon de Gautier: The Mayor of San Juan).\n\nAn expert seamstress, Felisa set herself the goal of creating employment in Puerto Rico by launching a local clothing factory. In order to master necessary skills she worked for two years in New York City during the Great Depression, living with relatives, including her sister Josefina.\n\nUpon her return to San Juan, she entered the wholesale/retail business and opened Felisa's Style Shop on Calle Fortaleza in Old San Juan. She also managed a flower shop called Miles de Flores. Throughout her lifetime, she remained closely tied to the Roman Catholic Church as she directed her efforts to raising the standards of living for impoverished Puerto Ricans.\n\nRincón de Gautier was a firm believer in the women's right to vote and was an active participant in the suffragist movement, motivating many women to register. When the law allowing women to vote was passed, Rincón de Gautier was the fifth woman to officially register. In 1932, she joined the Liberal Party of Puerto Rico, which believed in Puerto Rico's independence, and was named representative by the party's president Antonio R. Barceló. Motivated by the political ideas of Luis Muñoz Marín, she left the Liberal Party and in 1938 helped organize the Popular Democratic Party of Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 1940, Rincón de Gautier married the San Juan lawyer Genaro A. Gautier, who served as the Assistant Attorney General of Puerto Rico and Secretary General of the Popular Democratic Party. They had no children.\n\nIn 1946, she was elected mayor of San Juan - the first woman mayor of a capital city in the Americas. Under her leadership, San Juan was transformed into a Latin-American urban center. Rincón de Gautier designed innovative public services and established the first preschool centers called \"Las Escuelas Maternales\", which would eventually become the model for the Head Start programs in the United States. She also renovated the public health system and was responsible for the establishment of the School of Medicine in San Juan.\n\nRincón worked with Ricardo Alegría to restore and conserve the historical structures of Old San Juan and provided housing and basic services to thousands of people. In 1951, during the Cold War era, she ordered the establishment of the island's first Civil Defense system which was under the directorship of Colonel Gilberto José Marxuach. She often opened City Hall to the public and listened to concerns of the residents of the city. In 1959, San Juan was awarded the All American City Award.\n\nRincón de Gautier started a Christmas tradition, which would be continued every year by the governors of Puerto Rico. On the \"Día de los Reyes\" (\"Three Kings Day\"), celebrated on January 6, she would bring gifts and treats to the poor and needy children. In 1952, 1953 and 1954, she had plane loads of snow delivered to San Juan so that the children who had never seen or played in snow would be able to do so.\n\nRincón was mayor of San Juan for 22 years, from 1946 to 1968. Upon retiring, she served as the American Goodwill Ambassador for four United States Presidents. She served in Latin America, Asia, and Europe promoting friendship between those regions and the United States. When Felisa Rincón de Gautier died in San Juan, aged 97, on September 16, 1994, she was given the burial honors of a head of state. Dignitaries from all over the world attended her funeral service. Felisa Rincón de Gautier was buried at the Municipal Cemetery Monacillos in Río Piedras, Puerto Rico\n\nIn both Puerto Rico and the United States, numerous public structures and avenues have been named in honor of Rincón de Gautier. There is a Felisa Rincón de Gautier Museum and a parking lot with the name of Doña Fela on Calle Recinto Sur in Old San Juan. In New York City, both the Felisa Rincón de Gautier Institute for Law & Public Policy in the Bronx and a public school (PS 376) in Brooklyn, New York are named in her honor.\n\nIn May 29, 2014, The Legislative Assembly of Puerto Rico honored 12 illustrious women with plaques in the \"La Plaza en Honor a la Mujer Puertorriqueña\" (Plaza in Honor of Puerto Rican Women) in San Juan. According to the plaques the 12 women, who by virtue of their merits and legacies, stand out in the history of Puerto Rico. Rincón de Gautier was among those who were honored.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "845735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=845735", "title": "Forbes family (publishers)", "text": "Forbes family (publishers)\n\nThe Forbes family includes a number of related people that founded, and have worked for, \"Forbes\" magazine. Noted members include:\n"}
{"id": "27305858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27305858", "title": "Fred C. Koch", "text": "Fred C. Koch\n\nFred Chase Koch (; September 23, 1900 – November 17, 1967) was an American chemical engineer and entrepreneur who founded the oil refinery firm that later became Koch Industries, a privately held company which, under the principal ownership and leadership of Koch's sons, Charles and David, is listed by \"Forbes,\" as of 2015, as the second-largest privately held company in the United States.\n\nFred C. Koch was born in Quanah, Texas, the son of Mattie B. (née Mixson) and a Dutch immigrant, Harry Koch. Harry began working as a printer's apprentice in Workum, Netherlands. He worked over a year at printers' shops in The Hague and in Germany before coming to the U.S. in 1888, and owned the \"Tribune-Chief\" newspaper. Fred attended Rice Institute in Houston from 1917 to 1919, and graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in 1922, where he obtained a degree in Chemical Engineering Practice.\n\nKoch started his career with the Texas Company in Port Arthur, Texas, and later became chief engineer with the Medway Oil & Storage Company on the Isle of Grain in Kent, England. In 1925 he joined a fellow MIT classmate, P.C. Keith, at Keith-Winkler Engineering in Wichita, Kansas. Following the departure of Keith in 1925, the firm became Winkler-Koch Engineering Company.\n\nIn 1927, Koch developed a more efficient thermal cracking process for turning crude oil into gasoline which allowed smaller players in the industry to better compete with the oil majors. The larger oil companies quickly sued in response, filing 44 different lawsuits against Koch, and embroiling him in litigation for years. Koch was to prevail in all but one of the suits (which was later over-turned due to the fact that the judge had been bribed).\n\nIn 1929, Koch's partner Lewis Winkler's former employer, Universal Oil Products (now UOP LLC), sued Winkler-Koch for patent infringement. Also that year, nearly three years before the patent case went to trial, Winkler-Koch signed contracts to build petroleum distillation plants in the Soviet Union, which did not recognize intellectual property rights.\n\nThis extended litigation effectively put Winkler-Koch out of business in the U.S. for several years. \"Unable to succeed at home, Koch found work in the Soviet Union\". Between 1929 and 1932 Winkler-Koch \"trained Bolshevik engineers and helped Stalin's regime set up fifteen modern oil refineries\" in the Soviet Union. \"Over time, however, Stalin brutally purged several of Koch's Soviet colleagues. Koch was deeply affected by the experience, and regretted his collaboration.\" The company also built installations in countries throughout Europe, the Middle East and Asia. Koch partnered with William Rhodes Davis to build the third-largest oil refinery serving the Third Reich, a project which was personally approved by Adolf Hitler. Koch President and COO David L. Robertson acknowledged that Winkler-Koch provided the cracking unit for the 1934 Hamburg refinery, but said that it was but one of many \"iconic\" American companies doing business in Germany at the time.\n\nHaving succeeded in securing the family fortune, Koch joined new partners in 1940 to create the Wood River Oil and Refining Company, which later became known as Koch Industries. In 1946, the firm acquired the Rock Island refinery and crude oil gathering system near Duncan, Oklahoma. Wood River was later renamed the Rock Island Oil and Refining Company. In 1966, he turned over day-to-day management of the company to his son, Charles Koch.\n\nIn 1932, Koch married Mary Clementine Robinson in Kansas City, Missouri. Mary was the daughter of a prominent Kansas City physician, Ernest Franklin Robinson, who helped to found the University of Kansas School of Medicine, and Mary Burnet Kip, who died at an early age. Her mother Mary was the paternal granddaughter of William Ingraham Kip, the Episcopal missionary bishop to California; and the maternal granddaughter of William Burnet Kinney, ambassador to Italy, and his wife, author Elizabeth Stedman (née Dodge). The Kochs had four sons: Frederick (b. 1933), Charles (b. 1935), and twins David and William (b. 1940).\n\nFred Koch had a long history of heart problems. His son David described in 2010 how he received word that his father had died: \"Father was on a hunting trip bird-shooting in Utah. He was in a blind with a gun loader next to him. He was having heart palpitations and wasn't shooting that well. Finally a lone bird came over. He took the shot and hit it square. The duck falls from the air. He turns to the loader and says, 'Boy, that was a magnificent shot,' and then keels over dead.\"\n\nIn 1928, Koch traveled to the Soviet Union to build oil refineries, but he came to despise communism and Joseph Stalin's regime. Koch self-published a 39-page, anti-communist pamphlet \"A Business Man Looks at Communism\" relating his experiences in the Soviet Union and warning of the threat of Communist take-over. Koch wrote that one of the \"Potential Methods of Communist Take-over in U.S.A. by Internal Subversion\" was \"Infiltration of high offices of government and political parties until the President of the U.S. is a Communist...Even the Vice Presidency would do as it could be easily arranged for the President to commit suicide.\" Koch wrote that \"socialism is the precursor to communism.\" Koch wrote that he found the Soviet Union to be \"a land of hunger, misery, and terror\". Koch wrote that he toured the countryside and received what he wrote was a \"liberal education in Communist techniques and methods.\" Koch grew persuaded that the Soviet threat needed to be countered in America.\n\nAccording to journalist Daniel Schulman, writing in \"Sons of Wichita: How the Koch Brothers Became America's Most Powerful and Private Dynasty\", upon his return to the United States, Koch \"saw evidence for communist infiltration everywhere\" and the pamphlet was \"a forceful, though deeply paranoid polemic intended to jar Americans from their apathy.\" According to his son, Charles, \"Many of the Soviet engineers he worked with were longtime Bolsheviks who had helped bring on the revolution.\" It deeply bothered Fred Koch that so many of those so committed to the Communist cause were later purged. According to his son, David, his father \"was a very conservative Republican and was not a fan of big government,\" and was paranoid about communism. David told author Brian Doherty his father \"was constantly speaking to us children about what was wrong with government and government policy. It's something I grew up with - a fundamental point of view that big government was bad, and impositions of government controls on our lives and economic fortunes was not good.\"\n\nIn 1958, Koch became a founding member of the John Birch Society, an American political advocacy group that opposes communist infiltration and supports limited government. Koch held John Birch Society chapter meetings in the basement of his family's home in Wichita, Kansas.\n\nAlso in 1958, Koch helped amend the constitution of the state of Kansas to make Kansas a right-to-work state.\n\n"}
{"id": "26119511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26119511", "title": "Gershon Shafat", "text": "Gershon Shafat\n\nGershon Shafat (, born 6 December 1927) is an Israeli former politician who served as a member of the Knesset for Tehiya during the mid–1980s and early 1990s.\n\nBorn Gershon Staub in Vienna, Austria in 1927, Shafat emigrated to Mandatory Palestine in 1934. He was educated at the Moria high school in Tel Aviv, and spent two years studying history and sociology at university.\n\nHe became a member of the Bnei Akiva youth movement, and later joined the National Religious Party. In 1946 he was amongst the founders of kibbutz Ein Tzurim. After the kibbutz was conquered by the Jordanian Army, he was a prisoner of war for ten months. When released, he was a member of the group that re-established Ein Tzurim in a new location.\n\nFrom 1956 until 1958 he worked as the manager of the Purchasing Organisation, and as the Co-ordinator of the Religious Kibbutz Movement's political committee. Between 1961 and 1977 he managed a Tadmor factory\n\nIn 1974 he became a member of the Gush Emunim settlement movement's secretariat, and held the post of political secretary between 1976 and 1979. He joined the new Tehiya party in 1979, and served as its secretary-general until 1985. Placed fifth on the party's list, he was elected to the Knesset in 1984, as Tehiya won five seats. Although he lost his seat in the 1988 elections, he returned to the Knesset on 31 January 1990 as a replacement for Yuval Ne'eman, who had resigned his seat. Shafat lost his seat again in the 1992 elections, in which Tehiya failed to cross the electoral threshold.\n"}
{"id": "23490476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23490476", "title": "Gianluigi Aponte", "text": "Gianluigi Aponte\n\nGianluigi Aponte (; born 27 June 1940) is an Italian billionaire businessman, and the founder, owner and chairman of Mediterranean Shipping Company (MSC), the second-largest container shipping line in the world after Maersk.\n\nGianluigi Aponte was born in Sant'Agnello, Italy (near Sorrento, Naples) on 27 June 1940.\n\nAponte is a Neapolitan captain, who entered the shipping industry in 1970 together with his spouse, Rafaela. At that time, the newly formed company owned a single vessel that would ship cargo between Europe and Africa. With the growth of his business he eventually made a move towards the cruise industry in 1988. As of 2014 he has retired from the position of CEO and president in favour of his son, Diego Aponte, and took on a role as executive chairman within MSC.\n\nIn 2009, at the Teatro di San Carlo of Naples, he received, along with Fabio Cannavaro, Ambra Vallo and others, a prize for \"Neapolitan Excellence in the World\" from the Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi.\n\nIn 2012 he won the Cruise International Lifetime Achievement Award in recognition of his long term activity in the industry.\n\nIn October 2013, he received Containerisation International’s Lifetime Achievement Award, as well as a knighthood, Order of Merit for Labour, from Italian President Giorgio Napolitano. In 2014, Aponte and his family were named among the 10 most influential people in the shipping industry according to Lloyds List.\n\n"}
{"id": "36624807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36624807", "title": "Giorgi Gomiashvili", "text": "Giorgi Gomiashvili\n\nGiorgi (Goga) Gomiashvili (; (November 9, 1972 – August 3, 2012) was a Georgian business executive and a former diplomat, serving as Georgia's Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs from 2004 to 2005. He was found dead on August 3, 2012, of a possible suicide.\n\nGomiashvili was a grandson of the notable Georgian actor Archil Gomiashvili (1926–2005). A 1999 graduate of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Gomiashvili had a journalistic and diplomatic career in Georgia, working for the broadcasting company Rustavi 2 from 2002 to 2004 and then becoming Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs under the ministry of Salomé Zourabichvili in 2004. On May 21, 2005, he filed resignation and slammed the ruling United National Movement party after the Parliament of Georgia refused to approve his nomination as Georgia's ambassador to Switzerland. He stated he was intended to establish a political party, which would be in opposition to the ruling party, but not to President Mikheil Saakashvili. \n\nAfter his retirement from diplomatic service, Gomiashvili went into business and became Executive Vice President at Toyota Caucasus LLC.\n\nOn August 3, 2012, Gomiashvili was found shot dead at his own apartment in Tbilisi. According to preliminary reports he committed suicide.\n"}
{"id": "3284812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284812", "title": "Harry Frank Guggenheim", "text": "Harry Frank Guggenheim\n\nHarry Frank Guggenheim (August 23, 1890 – January 22, 1971) was an American businessman, diplomat, publisher, philanthropist, aviator, and horseman.\n\nHe was born August 23, 1890, in West End, New Jersey to Florence Shloss and Daniel Guggenheim. He graduated in 1907 from the Columbia Grammar School in Manhattan, and then he attended the Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University. He later left Yale and served a three-year apprenticeship at the American Smelting and Refining Company in Mexico. The company was owned by the Guggenheim family. He resumed his education in 1910 at England's Pembroke College at Cambridge University. He earned his B.A. and an M.A. from Cambridge, both in 1913.\n\nIn 1917 he bought a Curtiss flying boat and moved to Manhasset, New York. In September 1917 he joined the United States Navy Reserve and served overseas in France, England and Italy as a member of the First Yale Unit during World War I.\n\nIn 1924, his parents established the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation and he was made a director and later president. He sponsored Robert H. Goddard's private research into liquid fuel rocketry and space flight.\n\nHe provided funds for the establishment of the first Guggenheim School of Aeronautics at New York University in 1925. He became president of the Daniel Guggenheim Fund for the Promotion of Aeronautics a year later. This fund, totaling $3 million, included an equipment loan for operating the first regularly scheduled commercial airline in the United States. It also provided for the establishment of the first weather reporting exclusively for passenger airplanes.\n\nHe was the United States ambassador to Cuba from 1929 until his resignation in 1933.\n\nIn 1929, President Herbert Hoover appointed Guggenheim to serve on the National Advisory Committee of Aeronautics, a position that he held until 1938. In 1948, as president of the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation, he continued to support United States aviation progress when he helped organize the Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Jet Propulsion Center at the California Institute of Technology and the Guggenheim Laboratories for Aerospace Propulsion Sciences at Princeton University.\n\nGuggenheim, with his third wife, Alicia Patterson, founded the newspaper \"Newsday\" in 1940. Guggenheim was president of the company, while his wife was editor and publisher until her death in 1963, then he assumed those duties until 1967. The circulation of Newsday reached 450,000 and received the Pulitzer Prize in 1954.\n\nIn 1967, he turned over the publisher position to Bill Moyers and continued as president and editor-in-chief. But Guggenheim was disappointed by the liberal drift of the newspaper under Moyers, criticizing the \"left-wing\" coverage of Vietnam War protests. The two split over the 1968 presidential election, with Guggenheim signing an editorial supporting Richard Nixon, when Moyers supported Hubert Humphrey. Guggenheim sold his majority share to the then-conservative Times-Mirror Company over the attempt of newspaper employees to block the sale, even though Moyers offered $10 million more than the Times-Mirror purchase price; Moyers resigned a few days later. Guggenheim, who died a year later, disinherited Moyers from his will.\n\nHarry Guggenheim was a participant in the founding of the New York Racing Association. From 1929 he was a major thoroughbred racehorse owner and breeder. His Cain Hoy Stable raced in the United States and was the owner of numerous successful horses including the 1953 Kentucky Derby winner Dark Star, the only horse ever to defeat the legendary Native Dancer, and Eclipse Award winner Bald Eagle. Also he was the breeder and owner (until his death) of Ack Ack, who is in the Thoroughbred Racing Hall of Fame and was American Horse of the Year in 1971.\n\nGuggenheim died of cancer on January 22, 1971 at \"Falaise\", his home at Sands Point on Long Island, New York. He was buried in Salem Fields Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58434424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58434424", "title": "HeySpace", "text": "HeySpace\n\nHeySpace is a web-based task management application founded in 2018 by Time Solutions. The program is a mix of Slack and Trello, combining an online chat facet of the former with project management of the latter.\n\nTime Solutions ─ a system manufacturer of HeySpace ─ is an IT company based in Wrocław, founded in 2009 by Kamil Rudnicki, a 21-years-old student back then.[1] The main investors of Time Solutions are Asseco Poland and Venture Incubator, which financed Time Solutions in 2011.\n\nHeySpace made its debut on May 3, 2018, when it was officially presented on Time Solutions' blog. To July 2018, it was used only by the company itself, and after that date, the app was made available also to the rest of the world. The tool was inspired by the internal need of the company for combining the communication function provided by Slack with the task management function offered by apps such as Trello. Mixing both features in one tool allowed for greater integration of projects within the company.\n\nHeySpace offers numerous features which aim is to facilitate team collaboration and communication.  First of all, the tool provides its user with a chat board that can be divided into private and public spaces. The same division concerns sticky notes boards.  Moreover, it is possible to create task sheets directly from the conversation level. \n\nThe user of HeySpace can also import their tasks from the currently used software (such as Asana, Trello, Jira, Todoist, or Wrike) via the available support. \n\nBesides task management and collaboration, the tool enables percent-complete tracking, milestone tracking, status tracking, project planning, file sharing, workflow management, idea management, resource management and many more. \n\nOn August 21, 2018, after appearing on ProductHunt, HeySpace received the #4 Product of the Day award. What is more, the application was granted <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Great User Expierence 2018<nowiki>\"</nowiki> and <nowiki>\"</nowiki>Rising Star 2018<nowiki>\"</nowiki> awards by Finances Online. Besides, the tool has received many positive reviews around the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "38646906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38646906", "title": "Immiseration thesis", "text": "Immiseration thesis\n\nIn Marxist theory and Marxian economics, the immiseration thesis (also referred to as emiseration thesis) is derived from Karl Marx's analysis of economic development in capitalism, implying that the nature of capitalist production stabilizes real wages, reducing wage growth relative to total value creation in the economy, leading to worsening alienation in the workplace.\n\nThe immiseration thesis is related to Marx's analysis of the rising organic composition of capital and reduced demand for labor relative to capital equipment as technology develops.\n\nConcerning the evolution of the worker's living conditions, Marx argued that:\nMarx argued that, in accordance with the labour theory of value, capitalist competition would necessitate the gradual replacement of workers with machines, allowing an increase in productivity, but with less overall value for each product produced, as more products can be made in a given amount of time, meaning that economic output would increase, but real wages would stay stable, because the input of human labour stays the same.\n\nMarx also noted that this movement is not merely an abstract relation, but that it is a result of class struggle, and it could be temporarily stopped should wages dip below an amount that the proletariat deem acceptable.\n\nThe immiseration thesis was equally questioned by later theorists, notably by early members of the Frankfurt School. For Adorno and Horkheimer, state intervention in the economy had effectively abolished the tension in capitalism between the \"relations of production\" and \"material productive forces of society\"—a tension which, according to traditional Marxist theory, constituted the primary contradiction within capitalism. The previously \"free\" market (as an \"unconscious\" mechanism for the distribution of goods) and \"irrevocable\" private property of Marx's epoch have gradually been replaced by the centralized state planning and socialized ownership of the means of production in contemporary Western societies. The dialectic through which Marx predicted the emancipation of modern society is thus suppressed, effectively being subjugated to a positivist rationality of domination:\n\n"}
{"id": "25891791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25891791", "title": "Jabez A. Bostwick", "text": "Jabez A. Bostwick\n\nJabez Abel Bostwick (September 23, 1830 – August 16, 1892) was an American businessman who was a founding partner of Standard Oil.\n\nBorn in Delhi, New York, while still a boy his family moved to a farm in Ohio. As a young man, Jabez Bostwick first worked in a hardware store then opened his own. He next ventured into the cotton brokerage business in Cincinnati but soon moved to New York City where he became involved in the production side of the oil business through his firm, Tilford & Bostwick established in 1866. He bought out Tilford and in 1878 went into successful partnership with Henry Flagler and the Rockefeller brothers, John and William. Jabez Bostwick served as the Secretary-Treasurer of the Standard Oil Trust.\n\nJabez Bostwick was also a major shareholder and President of the New York and New England Railroad, a substantial shareholder in the Housatonic Railroad, a member of the New York Cotton Exchange, and who sat on numerous other corporate boards. In spite of the enormous wealth he obtained, Bostwick was known as a modest man of exemplary character who was a devout member of the Baptist Church. He donated money to his church and to educational institutions such as Wake Forest College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina and Richmond College in Richmond, Virginia.\n\nJabez Bostwick died in a freak stable fire at Friedheim, his summer residence in Mamaroneck, New York, in Westchester County. During the fire he tried to save his horses and carriages. As he and the stable hands pushed a coach from the carriage house he got overrun by a Private Coach weighing 2000/3000 lbs. His widow, Helen C. Bostwick, upon her death on April 27, 1920 left an estate per public record that was valued at $29,264,181.00, including nearly $20 million of Standard Oil stock.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48231727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48231727", "title": "Jennifer Chatman", "text": "Jennifer Chatman\n\nJennifer A. Chatman is the Paul J. Cortese Distinguished Professor of Management at the Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley. Chatman received her BA and PhD from UC Berkeley and began her career at the Kellogg School of Management at Northwestern University in Chicago, Illinois, before returning to UC Berkeley’s Haas School of Business. She served as the Marvin Bower Fellow at the Harvard Business School.\n\nProfessor Chatman's research focuses on 1) how a culture emphasizing innovation and adaptation buffers firms from economic volatility, 2) how CEO’s personality influences organizational culture, and 3) how diverse groups perform in high pressure situations. Professor Chatman has developed the Organizational Culture Profile (OCP) for assessing organizational culture strength and content as well as the gaps between an organization’s current and desired culture.\n\nProfessor Chatman’s research has been highlighted in \"the Atlantic\", \"Business Week\", \"Business 2.0\", the \"Financial Times\", \"Fortune\", \"Inc.\", \"Glamour\", \"The Jungle\", the \"New York Times\", the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", and \"Working Mother\". She was a keynote speaker for the Private Equity Women’s Conference, the AACSB Dean’s Conference, and the Economist Innovation Summit. She interviewed Jack Welch for the Commonwealth Club, Comcast, and NPR, and has appeared on television and radio over the years to talk about her research and consulting work. She has written articles that have appeared in numerous academic journals.\n\nChatman's research explores how organizational culture relates to organizational performance and also focuses on providing a conceptually rigorous and valid approach to assessing culture.\n\nRelevant papers:\n\n\nClassic research in psychology, dating back to Sherif’s pioneering work on the so-called \"Robber's Cave\" experiments showed that social norms, particularly those that orient group members toward group goals, are remarkably strong predictors of behavior. Professor Chatman’s work has been part of a more recent effort to link norms to processes and outcomes among diverse work groups.\n\nRelevant papers:\n\n\nProfessor Chatman’s research on leadership focuses on reconceptualizing traditional theories of leadership which have, by many accounts, reached a point of stagnation. By stripping down the psychological basis of leadership in influence she is able to make more progress in understanding how leaders affect followers in organizations.\n\nRelevant papers:\n\n\nProfessor Chatman's research and consulting focus on the business advantages of leveraging organizational culture and leading strategic change, and she has worked with a variety of organizations including Adobe, Apple University, Boise-Cascade, British Telecom, Chiron, Citigroup, Cisco Systems, The Coca-Cola Company, ConocoPhillips, DNV, eBay, Fannie Mae, First Data, Franklin Templeton, Freddie Mac, Gallo Winery, Genentech, Goldman Sachs, Hotwire, Intel, Kaiser-Permanente, Maersk, Mars Inc., Microsoft, New York Life, Novartis, Office of Hawaiian Affairs, PG&E, Pixar, the Portland Trailblazers, PricewaterhouseCoopers, Qualcomm, Roche, Sandia National Laboratories, Salesforce.com, Silver Spring Networks, Statoil, the U.S. Postal Service, the U.S. Treasury, True Ventures, and Warburg Pincus.\n\nShe is a member of the Board of Directors of Simpson Manufacturing (NYSE: SSD) and a Trustee of Prospect Sierra School. She is an academic partner with The Trium Group. She teaches a variety of executive management and MBA courses focusing on leveraging high performance cultures, leading change, and making effective decisions. She has taught in executive education programs at a number of universities, and is faculty director of UC Berkeley’s Center for Executive Education (CEE) flagship program for senior executives, The Berkeley Executive Leader Program. She has served as the faculty Director of CEE and of the Ph.D. program at Haas, and the Chair of the Management of Organizations Group at Haas.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12839419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12839419", "title": "Jock Campbell, Baron Campbell of Eskan", "text": "Jock Campbell, Baron Campbell of Eskan\n\nJohn \"Jock\" Middleton Campbell, Baron Campbell of Eskan (8 August 1912 – 26 December 1994) was the Chairman of Booker Brothers, McConnell and Co (Later Booker-McConnell) in British Guiana (now Guyana) between 1952 and 1967. He was knighted in 1957 and was created a life peer on 14 January 1966, taking the title Baron Campbell of Eskan, of Camis Eskan in the County of Dumbarton. He was Chairman of the Commonwealth Sugar Exporters Association (1950–84). He was additionally notable as chairman of Booker McConnell, Chairman of the \"New Statesman and Nation\" and the first chairman of the Milton Keynes Development Corporation.\n\nJock’s paternal grandfather, William Middleton, was Governor of the Bank of England between 1907 and 1909, a man of great prestige. His mother Mary was of aristocratic Irish stock. Jock was born on 8 August 1912 and at the age of three was sent to the opulent family seat of his mother’s family, Glenstal Castle in southern Ireland, to be safe from the bombs of the German Zeppelins. After the war Jock returned to the family home in Kent. He later attended Eton and Oxford.\n\nIt was John Campbell (Senior), Jock’s great-great-grandfather, ship owner and merchant of Glasgow, who, towards the end of the 18th century, first established the fortunes of the Campbell family in the West Indies, through the slave trade. At the time, Glasgow trading houses, long-experienced in servicing the needs of North American slave plantations, were ready to capitalise on new opportunities in the sugar industry arising on the West Indies. By the 1780s they were supplying the two most important British exports to the West Indies, herring and coarse linen goods.\n\nAmong the principal beneficiaries of this booming trade were John Campbell (Senior) and Company, which supplied merchandise to the slave plantations along the coast of Guiana, then in Dutch hands. It was in this role of supplier that the company first began to acquire plantations along the Essequibo Coast of Guiana, from planters facing bankruptcy.\n\nJock Campbell later remarked often that, in acquiring estates through foreclosure, his ancestors became \"de facto\" slave-owners. Campbell himself abhorred slavery, and it was in fact the urge to make good the misdeeds of his own family that was the catalyst for his own reformist ideals.\n\nOn 5 May 1971, in the House of Lords, Campbell dissociated himself from his ancestors, arguing that \"maximising profits cannot and should not be the sole purpose, or even the primary purpose, of business.\"\n\nBy the 20th century, the company of Curtis, Campbell and Co had its established place in the British Guiana plantocracy; it owned Ogle Plantation in Demerara and Albion Estate, up the Atlantic coast in the Corentyne district, and a wharf in Georgetown. When Jock’s great-grandfather, Colin Campbell of Colgrain, died in 1919 he left £1 million, a fortune at the time. When his grandfather, William Middleton Campbell, died, he left £1.5 million – all of it from the cane fields of British Guiana.\n\nJock went to British Guiana for the first time to take charge of the family estates, arriving in 1934. The Campbells owned Las Penitence Wharf on the Demerara River, Georgetown, where they were agents for the Harrison line of shipping. They also owned Ogle Estate, up the East Coast from Demerara, and Albion, further Eastward in the Berbice district. In his first few months in the colony Jock worked at the family’s wharf, assessing the claims made by merchants whose goods had been broached, broken or stolen.\n\nAfter several months on the wharf he went to continue his apprenticeship at Albion Estate in the Essequibo District. One anecdote of this time is characteristic of the shock he suffered on seeing the appalling conditions of the workers:\n\nWhen shown around the family plantation at Albion, in the Corentyne district of British Guiana, Jock was appalled by the living conditions of the coolies, the East Indian cane cutters. The East Indians had been brought into the country after the liberation of the slaves, and were housed in the same tiny, dark, vermin-infested, earth-floored “logies”. Next to the logies was a more pretentious building, clean, painted, smart-looking, a mansion in comparison to the shacks. “Jock enquired who lived in the hovels: 'Our coolies,' replied Bee (the estate manager). He then asked of the residents of the trimmed building. Bee said, 'Oh! We keep our mules there.' A naïve 22-year-old Jock asked flippantly: 'Why don’t you move your coolies to the mules’ palace and put your mules in the hovels?' A stunned Bee exclaimed cryptically: 'Mules cost money, sir!'\"\n\nAs the son of the estate owner, Jock had enormous influence in spite of his youth and soon embarked on a mission of reform, and this became his life work.\nAs the first step of plan, Jock urged his father and uncle to merge the family company the giant company Booker Brothers, McConnell and Co. The take-over took place in 1934, after which Jock quickly rose to chairman.\n\nBookers, as it was then known, at the time was a state within a state, owning almost all the colony’s sugar plantations and dominating the economic life of the country so much it was called “Booker’s Guiana”. As head of this state, Jock went about implementing his reforms.\n\nJock was partly driven by the guilt of his family background, but also by the conviction that every business has a responsibility towards its workers; and that profit alone should not be the guiding principle of society. His reforms continued on a grander scale.\n\nAccording to Ian McDonald, one of his employees: “All Jock’s abundant energy was converted to a faith that Booker had to mean something in a new deal for the West Indies… Demerara was his Damascus.”\nI believe that there should be values other than money in a civilised society.\nI believe that truth, beauty and goodness have a place. Moreover, I believe that if businessmen put money, profit, greed and acquisition among the highest virtues, they cannot be surprised if, for instance, nurses, teachers and ambulance men are inclined to do the same.\nIn effect, Jock Campbell became a socialist-capitalist. He initiated a process in which Bookers was completely reorganised and recreated.\n\nThe sugar industry was transformed from a run-down, unprofitable, inhuman, paternalistic and plantocratic expatriate family concern into a rehabilitated, forward-looking, productive and dynamic enterprise. Guianese were placed in the highest positions; if they did not have the skills for these positions, they were sent away for training.\n\nSugar production grew from 170,000 tons to 350,000 tons. Estates were consolidated and factories modernised. Drainage and irrigation facilities and the whole infrastructure of field works were completely revamped. Agricultural practices and applications were overhauled in line with current world-class technology. The first sugar bulk-loading terminal in the Caribbean was established to replace the drudgery of loading sugar in bags.\n\nThe people side of the industry was revolutionised: remuneration vastly increased, the old logies eliminated and 15,000 new houses in 75 housing areas built with roads and water supplied. Medical services were upgraded to cater for all sugar workers and their families and the scourge of malaria was eradicated, Community Centres were established on all estates and welfare, sporting and library activities expanded. Training and education were immensely improved; scholarship programs initiated, and all along Guianisation moved forward until the time came when the industry was being run almost entirely by Guianese. It was an era of tremendous growth and change.\n\nAs a member of the Fabian Society, Jock Campbell's key message was quite simple: \nPeople are more important than ships, shops and sugar estates.\nWe tried to act in the belief that business could not possibly just be about making money if only because that would be soul-destroyingly boring. Business had to be about making the lives of people better and more fulfilled. People in any case always came first however you considered what you were trying to do in business. You had a fourfold responsibility to people: to shareholders, to employees, to customers, to the community of people in which business operated and found its meaning. Creating profit was vital but not just for its own sake but for good, everyday, ordinarily human, immediately flesh and blood, life-enhancing purposes.\n\nIn British Guiana, Jock met his foil in Cheddi Jagan. Jagan, himself the son of Indian indentured servants, quickly gained the confidence of the sugar workers, and in Guyana’s first general elections in 1953 became Prime Minister.\n\nJock was willing to work with Jagan, as both had the same aims, but Jagan made it clear that the sugar industry would be nationalised after independence. Jagan was removed from power by the British due to his Marxist leanings;\nin his place came Forbes Burnham.\n\nIn 1966, Campbell was created a life peer by Harold Wilson and was active in the House of Lords on behalf of the Labour Party.\n\nIt is after leaving Guyana that Jock, who had always loved great literature, became instrumental in the initiation of a British literature prize.\n\nJock was an old friend and golfing partner of Ian Fleming, author of the James Bond spy novels, who had recently been diagnosed as terminally ill with less than a year to live. During a game of golf Fleming turned to Jock for advice on securing his estate for his family from heavy taxation. Jock initially advised Fleming to turn to accountants and merchant bankers, but then had a new idea: Bookers could act as bankers for Fleming, beneficially for both parties.\n\nAs a result, Bookers acquired a 51% share in the profits of Glidmore Productions, the company handling the profits from worldwide royalties on Fleming's books, and the associated merchandising rights – but not the film rights.\n\nThus was born the Bookers Author Division, with the injunction: \nIt should make money, not to mention being entertaining, and there could be advertising interest in it for some of our companies.\nBookers later acquired the copyrights of other well-known authors, including novelists Agatha Christie, Dennis Wheatley, Georgette Heyer and the playwrights Robert Bolt and Harold Pinter. It was the copyrights of Agatha Christie which, over time, contributed most to the profit of the Authors Division.\n\nThe Booker Prize was launched in 1969, after the publishers Jonathan Cape suggested that Bookers might sponsor a major fiction prize. A new sponsor for the prize was announced in April 2002, the Man Group, after which it became known as the Man Booker Prize.\n\nJock was for a time Chairman of the New Statesman and Nation. \n\nJock was chairman for the Milton Keynes Development Corporation from 1967. The large, central park initially called City Park, was renamed Campbell Park in his honour. There is a memorial stone by the fountain in his honour which reads simply \"Si monumentum requiris, circumspice\". (\"If you seek a monument, look about you\", referring to the urban landscape created by his team.\n\nIn June 1973 he was awarded an honorary degree from the Open University as Doctor of the University.\n\nHe stepped down from the post of chairman of Milton Keynes Development Corporation in 1983 and was replaced by Sir Henry Chilver, who remained in post until Milton Keynes Development Corporation was wound up on 1 April 1992.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25133489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25133489", "title": "John Alario", "text": "John Alario\n\nJohn A. Alario Jr. (born September 15, 1943), is the current President of the Louisiana State Senate. He has served in the Louisiana State Legislature since 1972. He was a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives from 1972 to 2008. Alario was Speaker of the House twice. In 2007, he was elected to the Louisiana State Senate. He is currently serving his third term as a senator and his second term as the President of the State Senate. He is the second person in Louisiana and fourth in United States history to have been elected as both Speaker of his state House of Representatives and President of his state Senate.\n\nAlario was born to John A. Alario, Sr., and the former Elsie Lombas. In 1961, Alario graduated from West Jefferson High School. In 1965 he received a Bachelor of Arts degree from Southeastern Louisiana University in Hammond. From 1965 to 1966, he was a teacher in Jefferson Parish public schools. In 1966, he began work as an accountant. By 1972, he started his own tax consulting firm, John A. Alario, Jr. Income Tax Service. He is a member of the National Society of Public Accountants. In 1973, he became a delegate for the Louisiana Constitutional Convention. From 1979 to 1985, he was chairman of the Louisiana Exposition Authority.\n\nAlario has membership in the Knights of Columbus, Louisiana Epilepsy Association, Louisiana International Deep Water Gulf Transfer Terminal Authority and the Westwego Volunteer Fire Department. He was a delegate at the 1972, 1996 and 2000 Democratic National Conventions. He is a recipient of the Hale Boggs Memorial Award, named for the late Democrat U.S. Representative for Louisiana's 2nd congressional district.\n\nAlario and his wife, the former Alba Williamson, have four children, John W., Jan M., Christopher Brian, and Kevin George Alario.\n\nAlario became a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives in 1972. As a Representative, Alario was the chairman of the Appropriations, House Executive, and Ways and Means committees. He also served as chairman to the Joint Legislative Committee on the Budget and the Joint Legislative Committee on Capital Outlay. He was a member of the House Commerce, House and Governmental Affairs, Legislative Budgetary Control, Municipal, Parochial, and Cultural Affairs, Natural Resources, Judiciary B, and Judicial committees.\n\nHe was selected by Governor Edwin Edwards as Speaker of the House twice, from 1984 to 1988 and from 1992 to 1996. As the House Speaker, Alario was described by a colleague, Ron Gomez of Lafayette, as \"a master of adding just the right degree of levity to defuse almost any potentially explosive situation.\" In 1986, Alario removed Representative Kevin P. Reilly, Sr., of Baton Rouge from the chairmanship of the House Appropriations Committee after thirteen years of service when Reilly, an unsuccessful candidate for state treasurer the following year, criticized Governor Edwards.\n\nWith the election of Buddy Roemer as governor, Alario was replaced as Speaker by Jimmy N. Dimos of Monroe. Ron Gomez explained that Alario and Senate President Sammy Nunez of Chalmette nevertheless attempted to maintain their leadership posts. He explained: \"Alario immediately had the backing of organized labor, the black caucus, many member from the New Orleans and Jefferson Parish delegations and a healthy number of other House members whom he had helped and to whom he had ingratiated himself over the years.\"\n\nOverall, Alario served nine terms in the House of Representatives before being term limited from the body in 2007.\n\nIn 2007, Alario was elected to the Louisiana State Senate. He began his first term as Senator in 2008. As Senator, Alario served on the Senate Finance and Commerce Committees. On October 25, 2011, Governor Bobby Jindal endorsed Alario for the position of President of the Senate. This came one year after he changed his party affiliation from Democratic to Republican and despite previous GOP hostility toward Alario. On election by his senatorial colleagues, Alario joined John Hainkel as the only men in Louisiana to have been presiding officers of both houses of the state legislature.\n\nUltimately, only one of the thirty-nine senators, freshman Republican Barrow Peacock of Shreveport, voted against the Alario selection. Jindal had supported Peacock's Republican rival, term-limited State Representative Jane H. Smith of Bossier City, in the general election for the District 37 seat held on November 19, 2011.\n\nIn June 2017, political science Professor Jeffrey D. Sadow of Louisiana State University in Shreveport wrote an article critical of two Moderate Republicans in the state legislature: Rob Shadoin, a representative from Ruston, and Senate President Alario, who Sadow contends, sends conservative legislation, such as support for Confederate monuments, to committees with Democratic majorities. Sadow went on to claim that this works to the advantage of Democratic Governor John Bel Edwards because Edwards does not have to veto popular measures to please his base.\n\nIn April, 2018, Alario was one of 10 senators who voted against criminalizing sexual abuse of animals. Despite Alario's opposition, the bill passed with 25 votes in favor of the ban.\n"}
{"id": "1056430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1056430", "title": "Jonathan Bush", "text": "Jonathan Bush\n\nJonathan James Bush (born May 6, 1931) is an American banker.\n\nBush was born in Greenwich, Connecticut, to Prescott Sheldon Bush, a politician, and Dorothy Walker Bush. He graduated from The Hotchkiss School and Yale University, where he was a member of Skull and Bones. The fourth child in the family, he is the brother of Prescott \"Pressy\" Bush, Jr. (1922–2010), the 41st President of the United States George H. W. Bush (1924–2018), Nancy Bush Ellis (b. 1926), and William \"Bucky\" Bush (1938–2018). He is the uncle of the 43rd President George W. Bush. Like his brother George H. W. Bush, he was a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity at Yale.\n\nBush and his wife Josephine are the parents of former NBC entertainment reporter Billy Bush and health care executive Jonathan S. Bush.\n\nAs of 2013, Jonathan Bush is a Senior Officer at Fairfield, Bush & Co., an Investment Advisory Firm, with offices in New Canaan and New Haven, Connecticut, as well as Los Angeles, California.\n\nJonathan Bush founded J. Bush & Co., which provided discreet banking services for the Washington, D.C., embassies of foreign governments for many years. In 1997, Riggs Bank bought J. Bush & Co. and made Bush CEO & President of Riggs Investment, a firm based in New Haven, Connecticut.\n\nIn the early 1980s, Jonathan Bush helped organize investors for George W. Bush's first oil venture, Arbusto Energy, later called Bush Explorations.\n\nDuring the 2000 presidential campaign, Bush was a major contributor and fundraiser to his nephew's election and was named a \"Bush Pioneer\" for raising more than $100,000 for the campaign.\n\nOn May 15, 2004, \"The Washington Post\" published an article that said, \"A political Web site written by a Democratic operative drew attention yesterday to the fact that President Bush's uncle, Jonathan J. Bush, is a top executive at Riggs Bank, which this week agreed to pay a record $25 million in civil fines for violations of law intended to thwart money laundering.\"\n\nThe bank accounts under investigation may have been Saudi, though the article did not say so. It did, however, go on to say: \"a source familiar with the multiple federal investigations of the bank's Saudi accounts and other embassy accounts say Jonathan Bush's investment advice unit has 'no relationship whatsoever' with any of the Riggs's Saudi accounts.\" Moreover, the newspaper quoted a spokesman for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as saying \"any suggestion of political influence in the Riggs situation is 'preposterous.'\"\n\nIn 1991, Bush was fined $30,000 in Massachusetts and several thousand dollars in Connecticut for violating registration laws governing securities sales. He was barred from securities brokerage with the general public in Massachusetts for one year.\n"}
{"id": "22691746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22691746", "title": "José Mollá", "text": "José Mollá\n\nJosé Mollá (born 1967) is an Argentine advertising executive who co-founded la comunidad – an independent advertising agency with offices in Miami and Buenos Aires – with his brother Joaquín Mollá. He is currently la comu's creative director.\n\nBefore moving to Miami, Mollá was Creative Director at Wieden+Kennedy in Portland, Oregon, for five years, working mainly on the Nike account. Mollá’s work for Nike International, Coca-Cola and Powerbar led him to work in Wieden+Kennedy's offices in Amsterdam and London.\n\nJosé moved to the US after helping Ratto/BBDO, in Buenos Aires, become the Argentinean agency that won the most international awards and also “Agency of the Year”.\n\nHe recently survived a shark attack.\nHe has been invited to judge several awards such as Cannes Lions, Clio Awards, The One Show, D&AD, ANDY awards, Art Directors Club, NY Festivals, London Festival, Radio Mercury Awards.\n\nHis work has been recognized by all of the International Awards, including two Gold Lions, and one Silver Lion, in the last two editions of Cannes.\n\nJosé is the Chairman of the Board of Directors of The One Club.\n\n"}
{"id": "2203607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2203607", "title": "Just cause", "text": "Just cause\n\nJust cause is a common standard in United States labor law arbitration that is used in labor union contracts in the United States as a form of job security.\n\nThe standard of just cause provides important protections against arbitrary or unfair termination and other forms of inappropriate workplace discipline. Just cause has become a common standard in labor arbitration, and is included in labor union contracts as a form of job security. Typically, an employer must prove just cause before an arbitrator in order to sustain an employee's termination, suspension, or other discipline. Usually, the employer has the burden of proof in discharge cases or if the employee is in the wrong.\n\nIn the workplace, just cause is a burden of proof or standard that an employer must meet to justify discipline or discharge. Just cause usually refers to a violation of a company policy or rule. In some cases, an employee may commit an act that is not specifically addressed within the employers' policies but one of which the employer believes warrants discipline or discharge. In such instances, the employer must be confident that they can defend their decision.\n\nWhen an arbitrator looks at a discipline dispute, the arbitrator first asks whether the employee's wrongdoing has been proven by the employer, and then asks whether the method of discipline should be upheld or modified. In 1966, an arbitrator, Professor Carroll Daugherty, expanded these principles into seven tests for just cause. The concepts encompassed within his seven tests are still frequently used by arbitrators when deciding discipline cases.\n\nDaugherty's seven tests are as follows:\n\nThe last test, the degree of discipline, is important because arbitrators want to ensure that the \"punishment fits the crime.\" An employer's use of progressive discipline often gives the employer an advantage in arbitration.\n\nThe culture of the community or community standards sometimes play an important role in how just cause is defined, especially if there are issues of immorality. What is accepted in an urban and liberal community may not be accepted in a rural and religiously conservative community. The courts or arbitrator who will rule on a challenge to the discipline may be a product of those communities. Just cause can become controversial in instances when the employers personnel policies do not address a specific act but the employer believes that just cause exists. For example, if an employee is arrested and charged with a misdemeanor, the employer may deem that sufficient cause for dismissal, even if the employee is not incarcerated or is not convicted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2676045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2676045", "title": "List of S&amp;P 500 companies", "text": "List of S&amp;P 500 companies\n\nThe S&P 500 stock market index, maintained by S&P Dow Jones Indices, comprises 505 common stocks issued by 500 large-cap companies and traded on American stock exchanges, and covers about 80 percent of the American equity market by capitalization. The index is weighted by free-float market capitalization, so more valuable companies account for relatively more of the index. The index constituents and the constituent weights are updated regularly using rules published by S&P Dow Jones Indices. Although the index is called the S&P \"500\", the index contains 505 stocks because it includes two share classes of stock from 5 of its component companies. \n\nS&P Dow Jones Indices updates the components of the S&P 500 periodically, typically in response to acquisitions, or to keep the index up to date as various companies grow or shrink in value. Between January 1, 1963 and December 31, 2014, 1,186 index components were replaced by other components.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36518066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36518066", "title": "List of professional wrestling promoters in the United States", "text": "List of professional wrestling promoters in the United States\n\nThis is a list of professional wrestling promoters in the United States.\n\nThis section lists notable professional wrestling promoters, especially those of the \"Farmer\" Burns-Frank Gotch and \"Gold Dust Trio\"-eras, active prior to the formation of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) in 1948.\n\n\nThis section lists notable professional wrestling promoters during the \"Golden Age of Professional Wrestling\" following the creation of the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) in 1948. While most promoters operated specific wrestling \"territories\" as members of the NWA, a number of so-called \"outlaw\" promotions were also prominent during this period.\n\n\nThis section lists notable professional wrestling promoters from the collapse of the National Wrestling Alliance territory system in the early 1990s up to the 21st century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58152057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58152057", "title": "Managing by wire", "text": "Managing by wire\n\nManaging by Wire is a management strategy for enterprises of a dynamically changing markets with a high level of concurrency.\n\nThe concept forces switching from a conventional make-and-sell model to sense and response to the rapidly changing customer needs using most modern information technologies. As an analogue a fly-by-wire concept invented in 1950s for jets is presented. According to fly-by-wire a pilot must focus on general flight parameters while information technologies control the plain and reacts to changing environment.\n\nManaging by Wire was first presented in \"Harvard Business Review\" in 1993 by Stephan Haeckel and Richard Nolan.\n\nThe key principle is to create a digital model of the enterprise describing (at the most available detail level) processes taking part. As a digital model is created managing of the enterprise must move their focus from manipulating real-world processes to the programming procedures and changes to the digital model, which in turn influence to the real-world processes.\n"}
{"id": "25077295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25077295", "title": "Market intelligence", "text": "Market intelligence\n\nMarket intelligence is the information relevant to a company’s markets, gathered and analyzed specifically for the purpose of accurate and confident decision-making in determining strategy in areas such as market opportunity, market penetration strategy, and market development.\n\nMarket intelligence includes the process of gathering data from the company’s external environment, whereas the Business intelligence process primarily is based on internal recorded events – such as sales, shipments and purchases. The purpose of incorporating Market Information or intelligence into the Business Intelligence process is to provide decision makers with a more “complete picture” of ongoing corporate performance in a set of given market conditions.\n\nEffective market intelligence needs accurate market information that is gathered with right tools and methods. To gather information companies can conduct surveys, interviews, visit and monitor competitors outlets or gather and buy data from different sources.\n\nTraditional interviews and surveys can be done either in-house or by using specialists agencies. As more and more markets are digitalized the market intelligence space has seen a lot of new digital tools that companies can use. There are tools such as Google Consumer Survey that enables companies to ask web users a question through Google network of online publishers. There are also specialist sites companies can buy market intelligence information and market intelligence software that companies can use to collect and monitor data from the internet.\n"}
{"id": "14302097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14302097", "title": "Merchant Shipping Act 1988", "text": "Merchant Shipping Act 1988\n\nThe Merchant Shipping Act 1988 c.12 was an Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom. It aimed to prevent foreign fishing fleets from fishing in British territorial waters. In the Factortame case, its provisions in Parts I and II, Registration of British Ships, were disapplied by the House of Lords when they were found to conflict with European Community law and the Common Fisheries Policy. Part II dealt only with fishing vessels and was found to be repugnant by the European Court of Justice. The subsequent definition of British Ships is found in the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22713218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22713218", "title": "Mohamed Fahim ElGindy", "text": "Mohamed Fahim ElGindy\n\nThe Furniture industry was developed many times in Egypt from the old ancient to now. During 1st 30 years of the 20th century, there was a great furniture developments in Europe from transitional furniture to Modern tastes (\"Modernism\"). Egyptian were influenced by these movements which was a mix of many different styles. Fahim ElGindy was the leader of this development in Egypt. He demonstrated his art in Europe and Egypt. He established the furniture industry in Damietta.\n\nHis full name is Mohamed Fahim AlSayed AbdAlla Ahmed ElGindy. He was an Egyptian. He was born in 1880 in Damiatta. He died on 29 April 1959 in Cairo. His Family is one of the most famous family in Turkey and Arabic Countries.\n\nHe was known as Fahim ElGindy. He was the man who established and developed the industry of furniture during the 20th century in Damietta and Egypt. In 1926, he got the Kingdom Golden Prize from the Conference of Industrial and Agriculture of Fabricating the Furniture in Cairo. Also, He was the first Arab who got Diplomas and golden medals from Roma and Paris for his wonderful art and initiations in fabricating the furniture in 1926. \n\nHe was a pioneer in establishing the Furniture Industry. He learnt this art to many manufacturers who are very famous now in Egypt. He made two furniture centers. The first was in Damietta in 1910. The second was in Cairo in 1920. During the second Conference of Furniture Industry in Damietta in 1986, the Egyptian government appropriated his efforts by providing a certificate to his name.\n\n\"ESPOSIZIONE FIERA Campioni Della Prodvzione Italiana Ed Internazionalie \" . \n\"Paris Exposition D'Economie Domestique\" . \n\"Société Royale D'Agriculture Exposition Agricole Et Industierlle Du Caire\" .\n\"The Second National Ceremony of Wood Furniture Fabrication in Damietta، Egypt\" .\n"}
{"id": "52236908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52236908", "title": "National Association of British Manufacturers", "text": "National Association of British Manufacturers\n\nThe National Association of British Manufacturers (NABM), formerly the National Union of Manufacturers (NUM), was an employers' association in the United Kingdom.\n\nFounded in 1915 as the British Manufacturers' Association (BMA), it was renamed the National Union of Manufacturers in 1917 and the National Association of British Manufacturers in 1961. It was particularly strong among small and middle-sized firms. It merged with the Federation of British Industries and the British Employers' Confederation in 1965 to form the Confederation of British Industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "52869938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52869938", "title": "Peter Aitchison (rower)", "text": "Peter Aitchison (rower)\n\nPeter David Aitchison is a former New Zealand rower and manufacturer of farming equipment.\n\nA member of the Union Boat Club in Whanganui, Aitchison was a member of the victorious Union crew—along with Donald Gemmell, Frank Crotty, Graeme Moran and Richard Tuffin (coxswain)—that won the coxed fours title at the New Zealand national rowing championships in 1958. The same crew went on to represent New Zealand at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff, finishing fourth.\n\nAitchison went on to have a successful career as a manufacturer, importer and exporter of farming equipment, founding Aitchison Industries based in Whanganui. The company produces and exports seed drills, cultivators, fertiliser spreaders and other farming equipment around the world.\n\nIn 2001, Aitchison and his wife, Sylvia, retired to the Wellington suburb of Roseneath. In 2015, the couple made national headlines after their neighbour built a four-metre high fence blocking their view of Wellington harbour. After a legal battle, the Environment Court ordered the fence be removed in January 2016.\n"}
{"id": "5246844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5246844", "title": "Product forecasting", "text": "Product forecasting\n\nProduct forecasting is the science of predicting the degree of success a new product will enjoy in the marketplace. To do this, the forecasting model must take into account such things as product awareness, distribution, price, fulfilling unmet needs and competitive alternatives.\n\nBass model is one type of forecasting method primarily used in new product forecasting. In general, there will be no historical demand for new product. Then, Bass model tries to capture shape of demand of existing product and apply new product.\nformula_1\n\nwhere,\n\nMultivariate techniques such as regression can be used to determine the values of p, q and N if historical sales data is available.\n\nThe Fourt-Woodlock model is another method used to estimate product sales.\n\nformula_2\n\nThe left-hand-side of the equation is the volume of purchases per unit time (usually taken to be one year). On the right-hand-side, the first parentheses describes trial volume, and the second describes repeat volume. \n\nHH is the total number of households in the geographic area of projection, and TR (\"trial rate\") is the percentage of those households which will purchase the product for the first time in a given time period. TU (\"trial units\") is the number of units purchased on this first purchase occasion. MR is \"measured repeat,\" or the percentage of those who tried the product who will purchase it at least one more time within the first year of the product's launch. RR is the repeats per repeater: the number of repeat purchases within that same year. RU is the number of repeat units purchased on each repeat event.\n\nBy examining the brand preference for each brand in a competitive context, preference shares for each brand can be determined.\nAssessor is owned by M/A/R/C Research ( http://www.marcresearch.com/ ) and can be used for concept screening, testing and volumetric forecasting. In combination with Choice Modeling it can be used to optimize offers and products.\n\nBased on the brands planned marketing mix of advertising in multiple vehicles, the ultimate brand awareness can be projected through time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "318952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=318952", "title": "Root cause", "text": "Root cause\n\nA root cause is an initiating cause of either a condition or a causal chain that leads to an outcome or effect of interest. The term denotes the earliest, most basic, 'deepest', cause for a given behavior; most often a fault. The idea is that you can only see an error by its manifest signs. Those signs can be widespread, multitudinous, and convoluted, whereas the root cause leading to them often is a lot simpler.\n\nA \"root cause\" is a \"cause\" (harmful factor) that is \"root\" (deep, basic, fundamental, underlying, initial or the like).\n\nThe term \"root cause\" appeared in professional journals as early as 1905.\n\nFantin (2014) describes the root cause as the result of the drill-down root cause analysis required to discover which is the process that is failing, defining it as \"MIN Process\" (meaning a process that is Missing, Incomplete or Not followed).\n\nFor example, projects may fail due to unrealistic expectations.\n\nIn Buddhism, the three poisons are the root causes of suffering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40251248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40251248", "title": "Shareholder yield", "text": "Shareholder yield\n\nThe term shareholder yield captures the three ways in which the management of a public company can distribute cash to shareholders: cash dividends, stock repurchases and debt reduction.\n\nDividends are the most obvious form of distributing cash. Stock repurchases also increase shareholder value provided that the shares purchased are cancelled or held in treasury but not used as a device to make up for dilution from option issuances to management and others. Reducing debt can also produce a de facto dividend; assuming the value of the firm remains the same, shareholder value is increased as debt is reduced.\n\nTo understand how debt reduction increases shareholder value, it is helpful to consider the 1958 paper by Nobel laureates Franco Modigliani and Merton H. Miller entitled \"The Cost of Capital, Corporation Finance and the Theory of Investment\". This paper proved that a firm’s value is independent of how it is financed, provided that one ignores the tax effect of debt interest. If Modigliani and Miller are correct, the use of free cash flow to repay debt results in a transfer of wealth from the debtor to the shareholder.\n\nThe term shareholder yield was coined by William W. Priest of Epoch Investment Partners in a paper in 2005 entitled \"The Case for Shareholder Yield as a Dominant Driver of Future Equity Returns\" as a way to look more holistically at how companies allocate and distribute cash rather than considering dividends in isolation. This concept was further detailed in the 2007 book, \"Free Cash Flow and Shareholder Yield: New Priorities for the Global Investor\", by William W. Priest and Lindsay H. McClelland.\n"}
{"id": "32171478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32171478", "title": "The American Review of Public Administration", "text": "The American Review of Public Administration\n\nThe American Review of Public Administration is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of public administration. The journal's editors-in-chief are Stephanie P. Newbold and Marc Holzer. It was established in 1967 and is currently published by Sage Publications in association with American Society for Public Administration.\n\n\"American Review of Public Administration\" is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 2.466 ranking it 13 out of 47 journals in the category \"Public Administration\".\n"}
{"id": "18980603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18980603", "title": "Thomas S. Ricketts", "text": "Thomas S. Ricketts\n\nThomas S. \"Tom\" Ricketts (born May 23, 1966) is the Chairman of the Chicago Cubs, and the Chairman, co-founder and former CEO of Incapital LLC, a firm that provides securities firms and individual investors more efficient access to corporate bonds. Together with his sister Laura and brothers Pete and Todd, the Ricketts siblings serve as the board of directors for the Cubs. He is the son of TD Ameritrade Holding Corporation founder J. Joseph Ricketts. Joe Ricketts has a net worth of US$2.3 billion as of 2018 according to Forbes.\n\nIn January 2009, a Ricketts family bid led by Tom emerged as the winning bidder for the Chicago Cubs. The bid was estimated to total around $900 million for the team and related assets. The sale was approved unanimously by the owners of the other 29 Major League Baseball teams that October, Ricketts was introduced as the chairman of the Cubs on October 31, 2009. Tom and his three siblings - Peter, Laura, and Todd - and both of his parents share ownership of the team through their family trust. \n\nRicketts is the son of Marlene Margaret (Volkmer) and J. Joseph Ricketts, who founded Ameritrade when Tom was eight years old. Ricketts Senior let it be known that he wanted his children to establish themselves through their own hard work and would not be allowed to join TD Ameritrade until they reached the age of 30.\n\nRicketts is one of four children. His brother J. Peter Ricketts, who lives in Omaha, is the 40th and current Governor of Nebraska and was the unsuccessful Republican nominee for the 2006 U.S. Senate race in Nebraska. His younger sister, Laura Ricketts, is a former corporate lawyer and a board member of the Housing Opportunities for Women organization. His brother, Todd Ricketts is a board member of T.D. Ameritrade, an entrepreneur and finance chair of the Republican National Committee.Tom Ricketts and his wife Cecelia and their five children all live in Wilmette, Illinois.\n\nIn 1983, Ricketts moved from Omaha to Chicago in order to attend the University of Chicago. Just out of high school, he moved in with his older brother Peter, also a student at the University of Chicago. Ricketts received a bachelor's degree from the university in 1988 and returned to receive his Master of Business Administration in 1993. Ricketts was awarded the ‘Distinguished Young Alumni’ award from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, recognizing graduates that achieve extraordinary career success and outstanding leadership. Ricketts has given generous donations to the University of Chicago and established the ‘New Year Scholarship Fund,’ which awards an incoming student a full undergraduate scholarship. Named after his joy of celebrating the Chinese New Year, the scholarship not only funds promising students but also allows for those students to meet with Ricketts and the other members of the endowment.\n\nIn April 2007, Sam Zell announced his intention to acquire the Chicago-based Tribune Company. After acquiring the Tribune, Zell announced that he would sell the Cubs and related entities including Wrigley Field and a 25% share of SportsNet Chicago. Under bankruptcy protection, the sale of the Cubs and the 25% interest in SportsNet Chicago would raise needed funds for the ailing Tribune company. In a campaign led by Ricketts, the family was selected for the winning bid on January 22, 2009. \"Forbes\" estimated that the ownership stake in the Chicago Cubs represents $642 million out of the total $900 million bid made by Ricketts.\n\nTom Ricketts has said that his love for the Chicago Cubs started during the 1984 season when he was 18 years old and moved to Chicago to attend university. Later, Tom and his brother Pete lived in an apartment over the \"Sports Corner\" at Addison and Sheffield, across the street from Wrigley Field. He met his wife Cecelia in the Wrigley bleachers and simply states that \"my family and I are Cubs fans\". The bid was reviewed by Major League Baseball and other stake holders. Although several close friends told the press about Ricketts's deep love for the Cubs, the Ricketts family decided not to court media attention until the bid was accepted by all parties.\n\nOn July 6, 2009, the \"Chicago Tribune\" reported that Tom Ricketts and family had reached an agreement with the Tribune Company to purchase the Cubs, Wrigley Field, and 25% of Comcast SportsNet Chicago for close to $900 million, as was originally reported. The contract was sent to commissioner Bud Selig for approval. Final approval came by a unanimous vote of the other MLB owners in an October 6, 2009 conference call. On October 27, 2009, the Ricketts family, with Thomas S. Ricketts as board chairman, officially took over 95% ownership of the Chicago Cubs, Wrigley Field, and 25% ownership of Comcast SportsNet Chicago. The Tribune opted to retain a 5% ownership stake in the team.\n\nAfter 108 years of waiting, the Cubs won the 2016 World Series with a wild 8-7, 10-inning Game 7 victory over the Indians on Wednesday night at Progressive Field. The triumph completed their climb back from a 3-1 Series deficit to claim their first championship since 1908.\n\nSince acquiring the Chicago Cubs in Oct. 2009, the Ricketts family placed a priority on renovating Wrigley Field as part of their plan to put a championship-caliber team on the field. In 2014, the nearly $1 billion renovation project of Wrigley Field and the collateral land finally broke ground after winning city approval.\n\nBesides preserving Wrigley Field as promised, the objective was to also leverage the Wrigley investment to create something special for the city and the neighborhood – a public space adjacent to the stadium that would function as a town square, offering year-round attractions for neighbors, families, fans and visitors.\n\nOn Opening Day of the 2017 season, with Cubs fans celebrating its first in a century role as the defending world champions of baseball, the Ricketts family delivered The Park at Wrigley. Chairman Tom Ricketts, President of business operations Crane Kenney, Chicago Mayor Rahm Emanuel, numerous elected officials, neighbors and community leaders cut the ribbon at the Park at Wrigley. To meet the team’s goal of being a good neighbor, the area outside Wrigley Field had to transform into a year-round, family-friendly destination that generated economic, social and tax benefits for the area. \n\nOn March 30, the Ricketts family opened their first hotel, located on Clark Street just across from the front entrance of Wrigley Field. The 173-room Hotel Zachary is the first full-scale hotel to open within a half mile of the ballpark. It’s also a striking addition to an iconic corner of the city.\n\n\"By the end of the 2018 off-season and next, our initial plan [will be] complete,\" said Ricketts, whose family bought the team from Tribune Company in 2009. \"That doesn't mean we're done, because it's a 100-year- old ballpark. There will be something else we have to fix after that. But it will be great to have the major construction done a year from now. We'll get the upper-deck renovation done after the 2018 season, and that will really help the ballpark a lot.\" \n\nRicketts is the Chairman, co-founder and former CEO of Incapital LLC. Ricketts spent one summer early in life working at TD Ameritrade, giving customers stock quotes over the phone. This was his only work experience with the company before being invited to join as a director later in life. \n\nWhen Ricketts finished undergraduate studies (1988), he joined the Chicago Board Options Exchange as a market maker. Ricketts held this position until 1994, shortly after finishing his MBA. From 1995 to 1996, he served as vice president with Mesirow Financial until moving to ABN AMRO as vice president in their brokerage division. Ricketts is credited with pioneering the idea of using the Internet and other technologies to help companies sell their investment-grade bonds directly to retail investors, as opposed to limiting sales only to institutions. He helped launch the first successful version of this system while at ABN AMRO. In 1999 he left ABN AMRO to found Incapital.\n\nThomas Ricketts co-founded Chicago-based Incapital LLC in 1999. The securities and investment banking firm has since expanded with two additional offices in Boca Raton, Florida and London, England. Currently, Ricketts serves as Incapital Chairman. \"Forbes\" describes the company as a \"technologically-oriented investment bank focused exclusively on the underwriting and distribution of fixed income products to individual investors. Incapital underwrites for several major U.S. corporations through its InterNotesSM product platform.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "42654041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42654041", "title": "Vivian Inez Archibald", "text": "Vivian Inez Archibald\n\nVivian Inez Archibald CBE (born 1 February 1945) is a British Virgin Islander politician and businesswoman who has served as the Deputy Governor of the British Virgin Islands since September 2008. On 21 August 2008, Meg Munn, who held the British ministerial portfolio for the Overseas Territories at the time, instructed the Governor of the British Virgin Islands to appoint Archibald as Deputy Governor. Inez Archibald took office as the British Virgin Islands' Deputy Governor on 15 September 2008.\n\nArchibald holds a bachelor's degree in economics and business administration from Rollins College. She also received a master's degree in religion from Stetson University and a second master's degree in divinity from Emory University.\n\nArchibald's husband of forty-eight years, prominent British Virgin Islands lawyer Joseph Archibald, died on 3 April 2014. They had three daughters.\n\nArchibald was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2015 New Year Honours.\n"}
{"id": "21984270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21984270", "title": "William Mason (1757–1818)", "text": "William Mason (1757–1818)\n\nWilliam Mason (22 October 1757 – 7 February 1818) was a militiaman in the American Revolutionary War and a prominent Virginia planter. Mason was the son of George Mason, an American patriot, statesman, and delegate from Virginia to the U.S. Constitutional Convention.\n\nMason was born on 22 October 1757. He was the fourth child and third eldest son of George Mason and his wife Ann Eilbeck. Like his brothers, Mason was educated by tutors at Gunston Hall.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, Mason served in the Fairfax Militia fighting under Henry Lee III in South Carolina. He was commissioned a Captain. In 1780, Mason's father declined an offer by Lee to continue his military service because his father felt Mason's \"lot must be that of a farmer and gentleman.\" Mason was presented with a sword by General George Washington, which was said to have been given to him by Charles III of Spain. Mason returned to private life between December 1780 and June 1781.\n\nIn 1780, Mason inherited the Eilbeck family estates, Araby and Mattawoman, in Charles County, Maryland, from his maternal grandmother, Sarah Eilbeck. The Mason family occupied Araby until 1849. In 1849, including the mansion were sold by Mason's daughter Mary Elizabeth Mason to William Thompson.\n\nMason also received all his father's properties in Charles County. These properties were located along Chicamuxen and Mattawoman Creeks.\n\nMason married Ann Stuart, daughter of William and Sarah Stuart, on 11 July 1793 at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in King George, Virginia. The couple had five children:\n\n\nMason died on 7 February 1818 at Mattawoman in Charles County, Maryland at age 60.\n\nWilliam Mason (1757–1814) was:\n"}
{"id": "40841673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40841673", "title": "Winkler County nurse whistleblower case", "text": "Winkler County nurse whistleblower case\n\nThe Winkler County nurse whistleblower case was a series of legal proceedings in West Texas that centered on the retaliation upon two nurses who submitted an anonymous state medical board complaint against a physician in 2009. The case attracted national attention for its implications on whistleblowing by nurses. After witnessing what they believed to be unsafe medical care, nurses Anne Mitchell and Vicki Galle submitted an anonymous complaint against Dr. Rolando Arafiles to the Texas Medical Board (TMB).\n\nWhen he learned of the complaint, Arafiles spoke with the sheriff of Winkler County, who was his friend and one of his patients. Arafiles alleged that the nurses' reports to the medical board constituted harassment. The sheriff investigated and obtained the TMB complaint, which provided enough information about Mitchell and Galle to make them identifiable. Galle and Mitchell were terminated from the hospital and faced criminal charges of misuse of official information. Galle's charges were dropped before trial and Mitchell was acquitted by a jury. In the aftermath of Mitchell's trial, Arafiles, several county officials and a hospital administrator all faced jail time for their roles in the retaliation against the nurses.\n\nThe case raised questions about the extent of whistleblower protection for healthcare providers who report patient care concerns to licensing authorities. Texas law included remedies against retaliation for whistleblowers, but no known U.S. state had whistleblower laws that addressed appropriate prosecutorial conduct. According to the Texas Nurses Association, \"No one ever imagined that a nurse would be criminally prosecuted for reporting a patient care concern to a licensing agency.\" After the Mitchell case, protection from prosecution was incorporated into Texas whistleblower laws. The TMB stopped investigating anonymous complaints about physicians in September 2011.\n\nThe case originated at Winkler County Memorial Hospital (WCMH), a 15-bed hospital in Kermit, Texas. Mitchell and Galle were registered nurses at WCMH. The two nurses held multiple roles at the hospital and both were employed there for more than 20 years. Galle was an administrator over quality improvement and utilization management for the hospital, while Mitchell served as its compliance officer. Galle and Mitchell also served as medical staff co-coordinators at WCMH. Mitchell held a part-time role as the county's emergency management coordinator. She also had experience as a travel nurse and as an instructor and director in a licensed vocational nursing program.\n\nIn April 2008, Arafiles arrived at WCMH. He had earned a medical degree in the Philippines before coming to the United States; he continued his training in Baltimore and Buffalo. Texas issued a medical license to him in 1998. The year before Arafiles came to Winkler County, the TMB restricted his ability to supervise nurse practitioners and physician assistants for three years and fined him $1,000. In that case, the TMB expressed concerns about the manner in which he oversaw a physician assistant at a weight loss clinic and the way that he applied the clinic's patient care protocols.\n\nMitchell and Galle became concerned about the appropriateness of Arafiles' medical decision making soon after he arrived at WCMH. The doctor's practice in Kermit included the use of alternative medicine therapies such as herbal remedies. Witnesses later said that Mitchell made comments at work which characterized Arafiles as a \"witch doctor\". Other coworkers said that Mitchell had legitimate concerns about the quality of the physician's patient care; they said that Mitchell first raised the issues with the hospital's administration, but that her concerns were not addressed. In one incident, Arafiles was alleged to have performed a skin graft on an emergency room patient even though he was not credentialed to perform surgery at the facility. Another patient came to the hospital with a crushed finger and Arafiles allegedly took a rubber tip off of a pair of medical scissors and stitched it onto the patient's finger.\n\nMitchell and Galle sent an anonymous complaint to the TMB detailing their concerns with Arafiles's care of nine patients in 2008 and 2009. The letter said that the nurses feared losing their jobs if their identities were revealed in connection with the complaint. Arafiles became aware of the complaint and spoke to Winkler County Sheriff Robert Roberts, alleging that the complaint amounted to harassment. The TMB issued a copy of the complaint to Roberts with the understanding that it would only be used to investigate criminal activity by Arafiles. Roberts sent the complaint to Arafiles and to WCMH administrator Stan Wiley. As WCMH was a small hospital, details from the letter identified Mitchell and Galle as the sources of the complaint.\n\nRoberts obtained warrants to search the nurses' computers and he found the letter to the TMB. The sheriff was friends with Arafiles. The doctor had treated Roberts in the emergency room for a heart attack. Roberts credited Arafiles with saving his life. He referred to the doctor as \"the most sincerely caring person I have ever met.\" Roberts later commented on the board report, saying, \"If it’s made to destroy somebody’s reputation or forcing them to leave town, then I don’t believe it is good faith.\"\n\nMitchell and Galle were terminated from WCMH in June 2009. A few days later, both nurses were arrested. They were charged with misuse of official information, a felony that carries the possibility of ten years imprisonment and fines up to $5,000. Roberts said that the nurses filed the complaint as a personal vendetta rather than as a good faith reporting of facts. He also noted that Mitchell and Galle sent the medical records of ten patients to the TMB without their consent; however, the reports did not include the names of patients and federal law exempts medical board reports from patient privacy laws.\n\nThe case attracted national attention in July 2009 when the American Nurses Association (ANA) and Texas Nurses Association (TNA) began to raise awareness of the plight of the nurses. Galle later said, \"We didn't have any support - emotional or financial - until TNA and ANA stepped in.\" TNA filed a complaint with the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) that resulted in an onsite investigation of the hospital. By February 2010, the TNA Legal Defense Fund had collected more than $45,000 in donations to the defense of Galle and Mitchell. TMB executive director Mari Robinson commented that such prosecution could have \"a significant chilling effect\" on the reporting of physician practice issues.\n\nThe charges against Galle were dropped before her case went to trial. Mitchell's case was tried by county attorney Scott Tidwell, a political supporter of Roberts and the personal attorney for Arafiles, in February 2010. Both the TMB executive director and the county attorney in nearby Andrews County discouraged Tidwell from trying the case. At trial, Mitchell did not testify. The relationship between Arafiles and Roberts was explored during the proceedings. Arafiles introduced Roberts to a supplement-selling program known as Zrii, and recommended the supplements to his patients. Roberts sold the supplements, but he said that his friendship with Arafiles had not impacted his actions with the nurses and that he did not have a business relationship with Arafiles.\n\nAttorneys with the office of the Texas Attorney General took on Mitchell's case after being contacted by the TMB. Assistant Attorney General David Glickler later said that the case was the most bizarre he had seen in an 11-year stint with the office. \"We're used to dealing with cases where public officials have enriched themselves at the expense of the office and the public trust, like bribery and theft. But there was no financial benefit to the bad actors in this case.\" The jury returned with a not guilty verdict after an hour of deliberation. Those present in the courtroom said that each juror approached Mitchell after the verdict and hugged her. In comments he made after the trial, jury foreman Harley Tyler said he wondered why the nurses were arrested. ANA president Rebecca Patton said that the verdict was \"a resounding win on behalf of patient safety.\"\n\nTNA asserted that state laws, including the Texas Nursing Practice Act and the Public Employee Whistleblower Law, gave any health care provider the right to report concerns about the patient care of other providers. Under these protections, a termination could be presumed improper if it occurred within 60 days of filing such a complaint. Mitchell and Galle filed a civil lawsuit against Winkler County, WCMH, Wiley, Roberts, Tidwell and Arafiles. The lawsuit alleged violations of civil rights, breaches of due process and improper termination. \n\nA few months after Mitchell's trial, Galle and Mitchell split a $750,000 settlement in the civil suit. The nurses, who both live in Jal, New Mexico, were unable to find employment in nursing after being terminated from WCMH. After signing the settlement, Wiley reinforced his support of Arafiles, saying, \"He’s done a lot of good in this county. If you have a heart attack or anything of that nature in the emergency room, he is definitely the doctor that you want to take care of you.\" \n\nSeveral officials faced criminal charges for their involvement in the prosecution or termination of Galle and Mitchell. Wiley was the first to go to trial after he was indicted on two felony counts of retaliation. He pleaded guilty to the lesser of the two charges. He was sentenced to 30 days in jail and a $2,000 fine and agreed to cooperate in the prosecution of other involved officials. Wiley terminated Galle and Mitchell after they submitted the anonymous medical board complaint. He submitted his resignation from the hospital in August 2010, but the WCMH board of directors declined to accept it. He resigned again in October 2010. \n\nRoberts was convicted on two counts of misuse of official information, two counts of retaliation and two counts of official oppression. In June 2011, he was sentenced to 100 days in jail, four years of felony probation and a $6,000 fine. After the sentence, Roberts was removed as sheriff and forced to surrender his license as a peace officer. Convicted on similar charges, Tidwell was removed from office and sentenced to 120 days in jail, ten years of probation and a $6,000 fine. Tidwell's trial publicly uncovered a 2004 guilty plea he entered after being charged with soliciting a prostitute. DSHS assessed a $15,850 fine against the hospital for inadequate supervision of Arafiles and illegal termination of Galle and Mitchell.\n\nBy mid-2011, Arafiles had moved his practice to East Texas and was affiliated with Cozby Germany Hospital in Grand Saline. A hospital administrator there said that she had looked into some of the allegations against Arafiles that she found on the Internet but that no one had formally complained to her about the doctor. In November 2011, Arafiles entered a guilty plea on two counts of misuse of official information. Two other charges were dismissed and a pending indictment for aggravated perjury was dropped. Arafiles was forced to surrender his medical license, sentenced to 60 days in jail and five years of probation, and assessed a $5,000 fine.\n\nSeveral of the people involved in the nurses' case had assumed new employment by the summer of 2012. Mitchell found a position in New Mexico working with the developmentally disabled. Galle, who said in 2010 that the case had \"derailed our careers\", entered early retirement. Galle and Mitchell earned the Dean's Advocacy Award from the Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center in 2010. Arafiles passed away in January of 2014. Wiley left Winkler County for Lubbock. Tidwell appealed the revocation of his license to practice law but in 2014 he resigned from the bar rather than face further disciplinary action.\n\nNew legislation stopped the TMB from investigating anonymous complaints concerning physicians as of the fall of 2011. The change was seen as a victory by physicians rights groups, who said that it would promote accountability in the investigations of physicians. Other groups worried that the new law would discourage the reporting of legitimate complaints against physicians. The board received 6,849 complaints in 2010; four percent of the complaints were submitted anonymously.\n\n"}
