{"id": "52548756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52548756", "title": "2017 in art", "text": "2017 in art\n\nThe year 2017 in art involves various significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36129790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36129790", "title": "Animals, Men and Morals", "text": "Animals, Men and Morals\n\nAnimals, Men and Morals: An Inquiry into the Maltreatment of Non-humans (1971) is a collection of essays on animal rights, edited by Oxford philosophers Stanley and Roslind Godlovitch, both from Canada, and John Harris from the UK. The editors were members of the Oxford Group, a group of postgraduate philosophy students and others based at the University of Oxford from 1968, who began raising the idea of animal rights in seminars and campaigning locally against factory farming and otter hunting.\n\nThe book was ground-breaking in its time, because it was one of the early publications in the mid-20th century that argued clearly in favour of animal liberation/animal rights, rather than simply for compassion in the way animals are used. The editors wrote in the introduction: \"Once the full force of moral assessment has been made explicit there can be no rational excuse left for killing animals, be they killed for food, science, or sheer personal indulgence.\"\n\nApart from the Godlovitches and Harris, the group also included David Wood and sociology student Mike Peters. The Godlovitches had recently become vegan on moral grounds, and soon after Harris and Wood met them, the latter were also persuaded that the case against exploiting animals was unanswerable, and they also became vegan. The group then began to raise the issue in lectures and seminars in moral philosophy at Oxford, and also began local campaigning against factory farming, otter hunting, and other animal exploitation issues.\n\nThe initial inspiration for the book was the discovery of an article called \"The Rights of Animals\" by the novelist Brigid Brophy, which had been published in \"The Sunday Times\" in October 1965. Brophy's piece was devastating in its brief and unsentimental statement of the case for animal rights. It began:\n\nWere it to be announced tomorrow that anyone who fancied it might, without risk of reprisals or recriminations, stand at a fourth story window, dangle out of it a length of string with a meal (labelled 'Free') on the end, wait until a chance passer-by took a bite and then, having entangled his cheek or gullet on a hook hidden in the food, haul him up to the fourth floor and there batter him to death with a knobkerrie, I do not think there would be many takers.\n\nIt concluded:\n\nIn point of fact, I am the very opposite of an anthromorphiser. I don't hold animals superior or even equal to humans. The whole case for behaving decently to animals rests on the fact that we are the superior species. We are the species uniquely capable of imagination, rationality and moral choice – and that is precisely why we are under the obligation to recognise and respect the rights of animals.\n\nSoon after the Godlovitches and Harris read the article, the idea of creating a book, or symposium of articles, began to emerge. Much of what was written at that time about animal welfare was anthropomorphic and sentimental in tone. There was plainly a need for something which offered an alternative, in the form of a clear and rigorous philosophical and moral perspective. The group began to draw up a list of possible contributors. Members of the group went to London and visited Brophy, who was enthusiastic and agreed to contribute. Brophy then introduced the group to Richard D. Ryder, a clinical psychologist based in Oxford, who later agreed to write a piece on animal experimentation. The group began to visit publishers, and when they met Giles Gordon of Victor Gollancz, he persuaded them that they should themselves write chapters for the book, as well as better known authors, as this would make the whole more interesting. Gollancz also agreed to publish it.\n\nThe editors were uncompromising in their Introduction:\n\nOnce the full force of moral assessment has been made explicit there can be no rational excuse left for killing animals, be they killed for food, science, or sheer personal indulgence...should the reader himself find no fault in the positions he will find in these pages he is, as a rational being, committed to act in accordance with them. Should he fail to do so, he can only have been terribly misled since childhood about the nature of morality.\n\nThe book contains essays by Ruth Harrison on factory farming; Muriel Dowding, founder of Beauty without Cruelty, on furs and cosmetics; Richard D. Ryder on animal testing; and Terence Hegarty from the Fund for the Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments on alternatives.\n\nJohn Harris writes about killing for food, Maureen Duffy about hunting, Brigid Brophy about the need for animal rights, Roslind and Stanley Godlovitch about the ethics, and Leonard Nelson (the German philosopher who died in 1927) about duties to animals. There are essays from David Wood and Michael Peters on the sociological position, and a postscript from Patrick Corbett, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Sussex. Corbett concluded with: \"Let animal slavery join human slavery in the graveyard of the past!\"\n\nIt was in Ryder's article that the word \"speciesism\" made its first appearance in an independent publication. Ryder had first used it in 1970 in a privately printed pamphlet, entitled \"Speciesism,\" which he had distributed around Oxford and sent to the colleges. He argued in the book that speciesism is as illogical as racism, writing that \"species\" and \"race\" are both vague terms, and asked: \"If, under special conditions, it were one day found possible to cross a professor of biology with an ape, would the offspring be kept in a cage or in a cradle?\"\n\nThe book got into trouble from the moment of publication, because two animal experimenters named by the editors in Ryder's piece objected to what had been written about them. The publisher Gollancz was forced by the threat of legal action to pay damages, and to put an errata slip in all copies. In terms of public reception, the unusual and radical approach taken by the book meant that it created a small stir in the United Kingdom. John Harris was interviewed on the PM programme, and appeared on local television. The book was also reviewed in several papers and journals.\n\nBut the way forward for animal rights as an issue was eventually to occur by a different route. The Australian philosopher Peter Singer had come to vegetarianism through meeting the Godlovitches when he was a postgraduate student in Oxford, and gave critical feedback on Roslind Godlovitch's contribution to the book. It was in his review of the book for \"The New York Review of Books\" in 1973 that Singer first used the term \"animal liberation,\" writing that \"\"Animals, Men and Morals\" is a manifesto for an Animal Liberation movement.\" The article prompted the \"New York Review\" to commission a book on the subject from Singer, which was published as \"Animal Liberation\" (1975), and which became one of the animal rights movement's canonical texts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1192", "title": "Artistic revolution", "text": "Artistic revolution\n\nThroughout history, forms of art have gone through periodic abrupt changes called artistic revolutions. Movements have come to an end to be replaced by a new movement markedly different in striking ways. See also cultural movements.\n\nThe role of fine art has been to simultaneously express values of the current culture while also offering criticism, balance, or alternatives to any such values that are proving no longer useful. So as times change, art changes. If changes were abrupt they were deemed revolutions. The best artists have predated society's changes due not to any prescience, but because sensitive perceptivity is part of their talent of seeing.\n\nArtists who succeeded enough to portray visions that future generations could live to see, often had to navigate an often treacherous path between their own capacity to see and execute what lesser artists could not, while still appealing to powerful patrons who could finance their visions. For example, paintings glorified aristocracy in the early 17th century when leadership was needed to nationalize small political groupings, but later as leadership became oppressive, satirization increased and subjects were less concerned with leaders and more with more common plights of mankind.\n\nNo art owes quite as much to state power as French painting does. It was in the age of absolute monarchy launched by Louix XIV in the 17th century that the likes of Poussin and Le Brun put France in the forefront of European art. Versailles found its stately mirror in the powerful idea of classicism – a painting style, enduring in later artists like Ingres, whose austerity and grandeur express the authority of a world where Jove is very much in his throne.\n\nExamples of revolutionary art in conjunction with cultural and political movements:\n\n\nHere is an example of an Artistic Revolution Pieces\n\nNot all artistic revolutions were political. Sometimes, science and technological innovations have brought about unforeseen transformations in the works of artists. The stylistic revolution known as Impressionism, by painters eager to more accurately capture the changing colors of light and shadow, is inseparable from discoveries and inventions in the mid-19th century in which the style was born.\n\nEugene Chevreul, a French chemist hired as director of dyes at a French tapestry works, began to investigate the optical nature of color in order to improve color in fabrics. Chevreul realized It was the eye, and not the dye, that had the greatest influence on color, and from this, he revolutionized color theory by grasping what came to be called the law of simultaneous contrast: that colors mutually influence one another when juxtaposed, each imposing its own complementary color on the other. The French painter Eugène Delacroix, who had been experimenting with what he called broken tones, embraced Chevreul's book, \"The Law of Contrast of Color (1839) with its explanations of how juxtaposed colors can enhance or diminish each other, and his exploration of all the visible colors of the spectrum. Inspired by Chevreul’s 1839 treatise, Delacroix passed his enthusiasm on to the young artists who were inspired by him. It was Chevreul who led the Impressionists to grasp that they should apply separate brushstrokes of pure color to a canvas and allow the viewer’s eye to combine them optically.\n\nThey were aided greatly in this by innovations in oil paint itself. Since the Renaissance, painters had to grind pigment, add oil and thus create their own paints; these time-consuming paints also quickly dried out, making studio painting a necessity for large works, and limiting painters to mix one or two colors at a time and fill in an entire area using just that one color before it dried out. in 1841, a little-known American painter named John G. Rand invented a simple improvement without which the Impressionist movement could not have occurred: the small, flexible tin tube with removable cap in which oil paints could be stored. Oil paints kept in such tubes stayed moist and usable -- and quite portable. For the first time since the Renaissance, painters were not trapped by the time frame of how quickly oil paint dried.\n\nPaints in tubes could be easily loaded up and carried out into the real world, to directly observe the play of color and natural light, in shadow and movement, to paint in the moment. Selling the oil paint in tubes also brought about the arrival of dazzling new pigments - chrome yellow, cadmium blue - invented by 19th century industrial chemists. The tubes freed the Impressionists to paint quickly, and across an entire canvas, rather than carefully delineated single-color sections at a time; in short, to sketch directly in oil - racing across the canvas in every color that came to hand and thus inspiring their name of \"impressionists\" - since such speedy, bold brushwork and dabs of separate colors made contemporary critics think their paintings were mere impressions, not finished paintings, which were to have no visible brush marks at all, seamless under layers of varnish.\n\nPierre-Auguste Renoir said, “Without colors in tubes, there would be no Cézanne, no Monet, no Pissarro, and no Impressionism.”\n\nFinally, the careful, hyper-realistic techniques of French neo-classicism were seen as stiff and lifeless when compared to the remarkable new vision of the world as seen through the new invention of photography by the mid-1850s. It was not merely that the increasing ability of this new invention, particularly by the French inventor Daguerre, made the realism of the painted image redundant as he deliberately competed in the Paris diorama with large-scale historical paintings. The neo-classical subject matter, limited by Academic tradition to Greek and Roman legends, historical battles and Biblical stories, seemed oppressively cliched and limited to artists eager to explore the actual world in front of their own eyes revealed by the camera - daily life, candid groupings of everyday people doing simple things, Paris itself, rural landscapes and most particularly the play of captured light - not the imaginary lionizing of unseen past events. Early photographs influenced Impressionist style by its use of asymmetry, cropping and most obviously the blurring of motion, as inadvertently captured in the very slow speeds of early photography.\n\nTheir initial break with realism into an exploration of light, color and the nature of paint was brought to an ultimate conclusion by the Abstract Expressionists who broke away from recognizable content of any kind into works of pure shape, color and painterliness which emerged at the end of the second world war. At first thought of as primitive, inept works - as in \"my four year old could do that\"—these works were misunderstood and neglected until given critical and support by the rise of art journalists and critics who championed their work in the 1940s and 50's, expressing the power of such work in aesthetic terms the artists themselves seldom used, or even understood. Jackson Pollock who pioneered splatter painting, dispensing with a paint brush altogether, soon became lionized as the angry young man in a large spread in Life Magazine.\n\nIn fact, in a deliberate, secret and successful effort to separate artistic revolutions from political ones, abstract expressionists like Pollack, Robert Motherwell, Willem de Kooning and Mark Rothko, while seemingly difficult, pathbreaking artists, were in fact secretly supported for twenty years by the C.I.A. in a Cold War policy begun in 1947 to prove that the United States could foster more artistic freedom than the Soviet bloc. \"It was recognized that Abstract Expressionism was the kind of art that made Socialist Realism look even more stylized and rigid and confined than it was, \" said former C.I.A. case worker Donald Jameson, who finally broke the silence on this program in 1995. Ironically, the covert C.I.A. support for these radical works was required because an attempt to use government funds for a European tour of these works during the Truman administration led to a public uproar in conservative McCarthy-era America, with Truman famously remarking, \"If that's art, I'm a Hottentot.\" Thus the program was hidden under the guise of fabricated foundations and the support of wealthy patrons who were actually using C.I.A. funds, not their own, to sponsor traveling exhibitions of American abstract expressionists all over the world, publish books and articles praising them and to purchase and exhibit Abstract Expressionist works in major American and British museums. Thomas Braden, in charge of these cultural programs for the C.I.A.. in the early years of the Cold War, had formerly been executive secretary of the Museum of Modern Art, America's leading institution for 20th Century art and the charges of collusion between the two echoed for many years after this program was revealed, though most of the artists involved had no idea they were being used in this way and were furious when they found out.\n\nKey dates: 15000 BCE / 400 BCE-200CE / 350 CE-450CE\nAncient - There are few remaining examples with early art often favouring drawing over colour. Work has been found recently in tombs, Egyptian frescoes, pottery and metalwork.\nClassical - Relating to or from ancient Roman or Greek architecture and art. Mainly concerned with geometry and symmetry rather than individual expression.\nByzantine - A religious art characterised by large domes, rounded arches and mosaics from the eastern Roman Empire in the 4th Century.\n\nKey dates: 400CE\nMedieval - A highly religious art beginning in the 5th Century in Western Europe. It was characterised by iconographic paintings illustrating scenes from the bible.\nGothic - This style prevailed between the 12th century and the 16th century in Europe. Mainly an architectural movement, Gothic was characterised by its detailed ornamentation most noticeably the pointed archways and elaborate rib vaulting.\nFirst developed in France, Gothic was intended as a solution to the inadequacies of Romanesque architecture. It allowed for cathedrals to be built with thinner walls and it became possible to introduce stained glass windows instead of traditional mosaic decorations. Some of the finest examples of the style include the cathedrals of Chartres, Reims and Amiens. The term was also used to describe sculpture and painting that demonstrated a greater degree of naturalism.\n\nKey dates: 14th century\nThis movement began in Italy in the 14th century and the term, literally meaning rebirth, describes the revival of interest in the artistic achievements of the Classical world. Initially in a literary revival Renaissance was determined to move away from the religion-dominated Middle Ages and to turn its attention to the plight of the individual man in society. It was a time when individual expression and worldly experience became two of the main themes of Renaissance art. The movement owed a lot to the increasing sophistication of society, characterised by political stability, economic growth and cosmopolitanism. Education blossomed at this time, with libraries and academies allowing more thorough research to be conducted into the culture of the antique world. In addition, the arts benefited from the patronage of such influential groups as the Medici family of Florence, the Sforza family of Milan and Popes Julius II and Leo X. The works of Petrarch first displayed the new interest in the intellectual values of the Classical world in the early 14th century and the romance of this era as rediscovered in the Renaissance period can be seen expressed by Boccaccio. Leonardo da Vinci was the archetypal Renaissance man representing the humanistic values of the period in his art, science and writing. Michelangelo and Raphael were also vital figures in this movement, producing works regarded for centuries as embodying the classical notion of perfection. Renaissance architects included Alberti, Brunelleschi and Bramante. Many of these artists came from Florence and it remained an important centre for the Renaissance into the 16th century eventually to be overtaken by Rome and Venice. Some of the ideas of the Italian Renaissance did spread to other parts of Europe, for example to the German artist Albrecht Dürer of the 'Northern Renaissance'. But by the 16th century Mannerism had overtaken the Renaissance and it was this style that caught on in Europe. \nRepresentative artists:\nLeonardo da Vinci, Sandro Botticelli, Filippo Brunelleschi, Raphael da Urbino, Titian, Michelangelo Buonarroti, and Donatello Bardi.\n\nKey dates: 1520-1600\nArtists of the Early Renaissance and the High Renaissance developed their characteristic styles from the observation of nature and the formulation of a pictorial science. When Mannerism matured after 1520(The year Raphael died), all the representational problems had been solved. A body of knowledge was there to be learned. Instead of nature as their teacher, Mannerist artists took art. While Renaissance artists sought nature to find their style, the Mannerists looked first for a style and found a manner. In Mannerist paintings, compositions can have no focal point, space can be ambiguous, figures can be characterized by an athletic bending and twisting with distortions, exaggerations, an elastic elongation of the limbs, bizarre posturing on one hand, graceful posturing on the other hand, and a rendering of the heads as uniformly small and oval. The composition is jammed by clashing colors, which is unlike what we've seen in the balanced, natural, and dramatic colors of the High Renaissance. Mannerist artwork seeks instability and restlessness. There is also a fondness for allegories that have lascivious undertones. \nRepresentative artists:\nAndrea del Sarto, Jacopo da Pontormo, Correggio\n\nKey dates: 17th century\nBaroque Art emerged in Europe around 1600, as a reaction against the intricate and formulaic Mannerist style which dominated the Late Renaissance. Baroque Art is less complex, more realistic and more emotionally affecting than Mannerism.\nThis movement was encouraged by the Catholic Church, the most important patron of the arts at that time, as a return to tradition and spirituality.\nOne of the great periods of art history, Baroque Art was developed by Caravaggio, Annibale Carracci, and Gianlorenzo Bernini, among others. This was also the age of Rubens, Rembrandt, Velázquez, and Vermeer.\nIn the 18th century, Baroque Art was replaced by the more elegant and elaborate Rococo style.\nRepresentative artists:\nCaravaggio, Annibale Carracci, Gianlorenzo Bernini, Rubens, Rembrandt, Nicolas Poussin\n\nKey dates: 18th century\nThroughout the 18th century in France, a new wealthy and influential middle-class was beginning to rise, even though the royalty and nobility continued to be patrons of the arts. Upon the death of Louis XIV and the abandonment of Versailles, the Paris high society became the purveyors of style. This style, primarily used in interior decoration, came to be called Rococo. The term Rococo was derived from the French word \"rocaille\", which means pebbles and refers to the stones and shells used to decorate the interiors of caves. Therefore, shell forms became the principal motif in Rococo. The society women competed for the best and most elaborate decorations for their houses. Hence the Rococo style was highly dominated by the feminine taste and influence.\nFrançois Boucher was the 18th century painter and engraver whose works are regarded as the perfect expression of French taste in the Rococo period. Trained by his father who was a lace designer, Boucher won fame with his sensuous and light-hearted mythological paintings and landscapes. He executed important works for both the Queen of France and Mme. de Pompadour, Louis XV's mistress, who was considered the most powerful woman in France at the time. Boucher was Mme. de Pompadour's favorite artist and was commissioned by her for numerous paintings and decorations. Boucher also became the principal designer for the royal porcelain factory and the director of the Gobelins tapestry factory. The Vulcan Presenting Venus with Arms for Aeneas is a template for a tapestry made by this factory. \nCharacterized by elegant and refined yet playful subject matters, Boucher's style became the epitome of the court of Louis XV. His style consisted of delicate colors and gentle forms painted within a frivolous subject matter. His works typically utilized delightful and decorative designs to illustrate graceful stories with Arcadian shepherds, goddesses and cupids playing against a pink and blue sky. These works mirrored the frolicsome, artificial and ornamented decadence of the French aristocracy of the time.\nThe Rococo is sometimes considered a final phase of the Baroque period.\nRepresentative artists:\nFrançois Boucher, William Hogarth, Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, Angelica Kauffman, Giovanni Antonio Canaletto, Velázquez Vermeer\n\nKey dates: 1750-1880\nA nineteenth-century French art style and movement that originated as a reaction to the Baroque. It sought to revive the ideals of ancient Greek and Roman art. Neoclassic artists used classical forms to express their ideas about courage, sacrifice, and love of country. David and Canova are examples of neo-classicists.\nRepresentative artists:\nJacques-Louis David, Sir Henry Raeburn, Sir Joshua Reynolds, Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres, Thomas Gainsborough, Antonio Canova, Arnold Bocklin\n\nKey dates: 1800-1880\nRomanticism was basically a reaction against Neoclassicism, it is a deeply felt style which is individualistic, beautiful, exotic, and emotionally wrought.\nAlthough Romanticism and Neoclassicism were philosophically opposed, they were the dominant European styles for generations, and many artists were affected to a greater or lesser degree by both. Artists might work in both styles at different times or even mix the styles, creating an intellectually Romantic work using a Neoclassical visual style, for example.\nGreat artists closely associated with Romanticism include J.M.W. Turner, Caspar David Friedrich, John Constable, and William Blake.\nIn the United States, the leading Romantic movement was the Hudson River School of dramatic landscape painting.\nObvious successors of Romanticism include the Pre-Raphaelite movement and the Symbolists. But Impressionism, and through it almost all of 20th-century art, is also firmly rooted in the Romantic tradition. \nRepresentative artists:\nGeorge Stubbs, William Blake, John Martin, Francisco Goya, Sir Thomas Lawrence, John Constable, Eugène Delacroix, Sir Edwin landseer, Caspar David Friedrich, JMW Turner\n"}
{"id": "5703749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703749", "title": "Bruno Zevi", "text": "Bruno Zevi\n\nBruno Zevi (22 January 1918 – 9 January 2000) was an Italian architect, historian, professor, curator, author, and editor. Zevi was a vocal critic of \"classicizing\" modern architecture and postmodernism.\n\nZevi was born and died in Rome. His family was Italian Jewish.\n\nOn finishing school in 1933, he enrolled at the Faculty of Architecture at the University of Rome. Due to the anti-Semitic laws, Zevi was forced in 1938 to abandon his studies, and so left for London, UK, before moving to the United States. Zevi graduated from the Harvard Graduate School of Design, then under the directorship of Walter Gropius.\n\nIn 1940 he married Italian journalist and writer Tullia Calabi.\nWhile in the US he discovered the work of Frank Lloyd Wright, which became one of the bases for his championing of organic architecture. Zevi returned to London in 1943, working as a translator in the war effort.\n\nIn 1944, he founded the influential Association for Organic Architecture (APAO). The following year the magazine \"Metron-architecture\" reviewed his book Towards an Organic Architecture (published in English by Faber in 1950), which brought him international acclaim.\n\nIn 1945, Zevi became Professor of Architectural History at the University of Venice. Later, he was a Professor at the University of Rome, and a member of the International Academy of Architecture (IAA) in Sofia, Bulgaria.\n\nFrom 1955 onwards, he wrote a column for the weekly \"L'Espresso\" magazine. He was an active member of the Italian Jewish community, and took part in anti-fascist activities within the Giustizia e Libertà movement. He was active in the Action Party and later in Popular Unity and in the Radical Party, which he represented in the Chamber of Deputies from 1987 to 1992. From 1954 until his death in 2000 he was editor of his own magazine \"L'architettura. Cronache e storia\".\n\n\"The Modern Language of Architecture\" is one of Zevi’s most significant publications. In this book Zevi sets forth seven principles or “antirules” to codify the language of architecture created by Le Corbusier, Gropius, Mies van der Rohe, and Wright. In place of the classical language of the Beaux Art school, with its focus on abstract principles of order, proportion, and symmetry, he presents an alternative system of communication characterized by a free interpretation of contents and function, an emphasis on difference and dissonance, a dynamic of multidimensional vision, and independent interplay of elements, an organic marriage of engineering and design, a concept of living spaces that are designed for use, and an integration of buildings into their surroundings. Anticipating the innovations of postmodern architecture, Zevi argues forcefully for complexity and against unity, for decomposition dialogue between architecture and historiography, finding elements of the modern language of architecture throughout history, and discussing the process of architectural innovation.\n\nZevi argued in \"Saper Vedere L'Architettura\" (1948, translated as \"Architecture as Space. How to Look at Architecture\") that space is essential for both the definition and appreciation of architecture.\n\nZevi participated in the influential International Architecture Symposium \"Mensch und Raum\" (Man and Space) at the Vienna University of Technology (Technische Universität Wien) in 1984, also attended by Justus Dahinden, Ernst Gisel, Jorge Glusberg, Otto Kapfinger, Frei Otto, Ionel Schein, Dennis Sharp, Paolo Soleri, and Pierre Vago.\n\nSuch was Zevi's uncompromising critique of any tendency in modern architecture towards classicism that he even would criticize those architects he otherwise admired: \"When Gropius, Mies and Aalto produced [symmetrical buildings] it was an act of surrender. Lacking a modern code, they weakened and regressed to the familiar womb of classicism.\" (Zevi, \"The Modern Language of Architecture\").\n\n\"In 1973, Zevi set out (his) ideas as a set of invariants - a sort of anti-classical codebook that attempted to define modernity as a language of asymmetry and dissonance, which he propagated via his magazine L'architettura, cronache e storia. This exciting theory of architecture as rupture and fragmentation marks him out as the seminal theoretician for all currents of modernism interested in iconoclasm and deconstruction, from Alvar Aalto in the 1930s to Daniel Libeskind in the 1990s.\" (Thomas Muirhead, March 1, 2000; \"The Guardian\", Obituary, 2000)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24732346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24732346", "title": "Caloosahatchee Manuscripts", "text": "Caloosahatchee Manuscripts\n\nCaloosahatchee Manuscripts is the title of a sculpture designed by American artist Jim Sanborn.It is currently located at the Old Post Office Building in Fort Myers, Florida.\n\nThe sculpture is bronze with text cut from a water jet cutter, and a pinpoint light source.\n"}
{"id": "2634498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2634498", "title": "Chashama", "text": "Chashama\n\nchashama (stylized with a lowercase 'c') is a non-profit arts organization based in New York City. chashama nurtures artists by transforming unused property into affordable work and presentation space.\n\nSince being founded in 1995 by Anita Durst, daughter of New York real estate developer Douglas Durst, chashama has transformed 70 locations throughout the city and launched the careers of over 12,000 artists by giving them access to subsidized space, which supported approximately 10,000 public presentations for over 500,000 viewers. chashama provides free and subsidized space for artists to live, work, and present partnering with developers and property owners to transform their vacant buildings into centers of creativity with the added benefit of increasing local foot traffic and supporting area businesses.\n\nchashama runs a variety of programs to serve the emerging artist community in the city. They include:\n\n\nThe meaning of \"chashama\" depends on whom one asks. chashama (pronounced: sha-SHA-ma) is Persian for \"to have vision\". Although some say it is an Arabic word that means \"shame,\" others say it means \"from the eye\" () or \"spring outlet\" (). There are many more theories of spelling, pronunciation, and meaning. Some critics argue that the word is a complete fabrication, both in spelling and etymology.\n"}
{"id": "51849958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51849958", "title": "Church of the Holy Souls in Purgatory (Alcamo)", "text": "Church of the Holy Souls in Purgatory (Alcamo)\n\nThe Church of the Holy Souls in Purgatory is a Catholic church located in Alcamo, in the province of Trapani.\n\nAdjoing it there is the Salesian Oratory of Don Bosco\n\nThe church, even if it had been planned in 1577, was built only in 1813 by Company of the Holy Monte di Pietà, near the cemetery of the plague victims which was located in contrada Sant'Ippolito, whose church gave the name to a \"casale\" (=hamlet) among the oldest ones in Alcamo. \nAfter the falling down of the old Church of Sant'Ippolito at the end of the 18th century, there was the need of a new church (1816), which was dedicated to the Holy Souls of Purgatory.\n\nAs it was falling, the church was left and the tombs destroyed: the bones and mortal remains were moved to common graves in the cemetery of Spirito Santo and the land was given to the town municipality as a limestone quarry.\n\nIn 1942 it became an autonomous parish; in 1937 they buily the clergy house and, in 1964, the crypt under the structure of the present church was consecrated.\n\nThe Salesians, founded in 1855 by Saint John Bosco, in order to give instruction to children from poor families, had the approvation by Pope Pius IX in 1874.[3] Since October 5, 1958, the firsti Salesians (Don Girolamo Giardina, as the Parson, Don Giuseppe Falzone as the Director of the Oratorio and the assistant Antonino Miraglia), inaugurated the long-awaited Salesian Home. \nAfter so many bureaucratic difficulties, they succeeded in founding the Oratory Don Bosco (Salesian Centre for Youth) in the premises next to the parish Church of the Holy Souls, which was built by them on the same place of the old 19th-century church.\n\nDuring the period of their presence in Alcamo, the Salesians together with liturgical activities, have made several cultural, recreational activities, and above all, theatre for young people: just remember in 2014 an important and successful project which involved a lot of teenagers and educators of the community, \"Don Bosco the musical\". \nBesides, from 1969 to 1974, they published, under the direction of P.F. Mistretta, a periodical with the title: God’s Family, a fortnightly news bulletin of the parish of the Holy Souls and of the Salesian Organization in Alcamo.\n\nSince 1928 there is the Congregation of the Third Order of the Carmelites of saint Teresa of Avila: it is still existing and they venerate a statue of saint Teresa inside the church.\n\nThe church with one nave, at first had only an altar, for which the painter Raffaele Genovese (from Palermo) realized in 1854 a great canvas representing the Souls of Purgatory, with Our Lady of Miracles above them, and Saint Rocco e Saint Sebastian at the two sides: this painting was lost later.\n\nElevated to subsidiary parish in 1919 and autonomous one in 1942, the church was assigned to Salesians in 1958: they demolished it and built the present one, in modern style, after the design of Giacomo Leone, an architect from Catania.\n\nInside the crypt, on the right wall, there is a small statue of Saint Thérèse of Lisieux, then a copy of the painting representing the \"Holy Souls of Purgatory\" realized by Pietro Novelli and placed on the high altar of the Church of Saint Olivia in Alcamo and a statue of Saint Giovanni Bosco; on the left side there is a statue of Saint Domenico Savio, a painting of Saint Joseph with the Child Jesus, and a statue of the Holy Heart of Jesus.\n\nAfter it there is a statue of Our Lady of Mount Carmel on a pedestal, while on the high altar you can see a Panel painting, where there are the figures of Jesus behind Saint Giovanni Bosco, Mary, mother of Jesus and various groups of Salesian priests and prelates on both sides, with a lot of angels around.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162843", "title": "Color television", "text": "Color television\n\nColor television is a television transmission technology that includes information on the color of the picture, so the video image can be displayed in color on the television set. It is an improvement on the earliest television technology, monochrome or black and white television, in which the image is displayed in shades of gray (grayscale). Television broadcasting stations and networks in most parts of the world upgraded from black and white to color transmission in the 1970s and 1980s. The invention of color television standards is an important part of the history of television, and it is described in the technology of television article.\n\nTransmission of color images using mechanical scanners had been conceived as early as the 1880s. A practical demonstration of mechanically-scanned color television was given by John Logie Baird in 1928, but the limitations of a mechanical system were apparent even then. Development of electronic scanning and display made an all-electronic system possible. Early monochrome transmission standards were developed prior to the Second World War, but civilian electronics developments were frozen during much of the war. In August 1950, Baird gave the world's first demonstration of a practical fully electronic color television display. In the United States, commercially competing color standards were developed, finally resulting in the NTSC standard for color that retained compatibility with the prior monochrome system. Although the NTSC color standard was proclaimed in 1953 and limited programming became available, it was not until the early 1970s that color television in North America outsold black and white or monochrome units. Color broadcasting in Europe was not standardized on the PAL and SECAM formats until the 1960s.\n\nAround 2006 countries began to switch from analog color television technology to digital television. This changeover is now complete in many developed countries, but analog television is still the standard in many developing countries.\n\nThe human eye's detection system, which is in the retina, consists primarily of two types of light detectors: rod cells that capture light, dark, and shapes/figures, and the cone cells that detect color. A typical retina contains 120 million rods and 4.5 million to 6 million cones, which are divided among three groups that are sensitive to red, green, and blue light. This means that the eye has far more resolution in brightness, or \"luminance\", than in color. However, post-processing of the optic nerve and other portions of the human visual system combine the information from the rods and cones to re-create what appears to be a high-resolution color image.\n\nThe eye has limited bandwidth to the rest of the visual system, estimated at just under 8 Mbit/s. This manifests itself in a number of ways, but the most important in terms of producing moving images is the way that a series of still images displayed in quick succession will appear to be continuous smooth motion. This illusion starts to work at about 16 frame/s, and common motion pictures use 24 frame/s. Television, using power from the electrical grid, tunes its rate in order to avoid interference with the alternating current being supplied – in North America, some Central and South American countries, Taiwan, Korea, part of Japan, the Philippines, and a few other countries, this is 60 video fields per second to match the 60 Hz power, while in most other countries it is 50 fields per second to match the 50  Hz power.\n\nIn its most basic form, a color broadcast can be created by broadcasting three monochrome images, one each in the three colors of red, green, and blue (RGB). When displayed together or in rapid succession, these images will blend together to produce a full-color image as seen by the viewer. One of the great technical challenges of introducing color broadcast television was the desire to conserve bandwidth, potentially three times that of the existing black-and-white standards, and not use an excessive amount of radio spectrum. In the United States, after considerable research, the National Television Systems Committee approved an all-electronic system developed by RCA which encoded the color information separately from the brightness information and greatly reduced the resolution of the color information in order to conserve bandwidth. The brightness image remained compatible with existing black-and-white television sets at slightly reduced resolution, while color televisions could decode the extra information in the signal and produce a limited-resolution color display. The higher resolution black-and-white and lower resolution color images combine in the eye to produce a seemingly high-resolution color image. The NTSC standard represented a major technical achievement.\n\nExperiments in television systems using radio broadcasts date to the 19th century, but it was not until the 20th century that advances in electronics and light detectors made development practical. A key problem was the need to convert a 2D image into a \"1D\" radio signal; some form of image scanning was needed to make this work. Early systems generally used a device known as a \"Nipkow disk\", which was a spinning disk with a series of holes punched in it that caused a spot to scan across and down the image. A single photodetector behind the disk captured the image brightness at any given spot, which was converted into a radio signal and broadcast. A similar disk was used at the receiver side, with a light source behind the disk instead of a detector.\n\nA number of such systems were being used experimentally in the 1920s. The best-known was John Logie Baird's, which was actually used for regular public broadcasting in Britain for several years. Indeed, Baird's system was demonstrated to members of the Royal Institution in London in 1926 in what is generally recognized as the first demonstration of a true, working television system. In spite of these early successes, all mechanical television systems shared a number of serious problems. Being mechanically driven, perfect synchronization of the sending and receiving discs was not easy to ensure, and irregularities could result in major image distortion. Another problem was that the image was scanned within a small, roughly rectangular area of the disk's surface, so that larger, higher-resolution displays required increasingly unwieldy disks and smaller holes that produced increasingly dim images. Rotating drums bearing small mirrors set at progressively greater angles proved more practical than Nipkow discs for high-resolution mechanical scanning, allowing images of 240 lines and more to be produced, but such delicate, high-precision optical components were not commercially practical for home receivers.\n\nIt was clear to a number of developers that a completely electronic scanning system would be superior, and that the scanning could be achieved in a vacuum tube via electrostatic or magnetic means. Converting this concept into a usable system took years of development and several independent advances. The two key advances were Philo Farnsworth's electronic scanning system, and Vladimir Zworykin's Iconoscope camera. The Iconoscope, based on Kálmán Tihanyi's early patents, superseded the Farnsworth-system. With these systems, the BBC began regularly scheduled black-and-white television broadcasts in 1936, but these were shut down again with the start of World War II in 1939. In this time thousands of television sets had been sold. The receivers developed for this program, notably those from Pye Ltd., played a key role in the development of radar.\n\nBy 22 March 1935, 180-line black-and-white television programs were being broadcast from the Paul Nipkow TV station in Berlin. In 1936, under the guidance of \"Minister of Public Enlightenment and Propaganda\" Joseph Goebbels, direct transmissions from fifteen mobile units at the Olympic Games in Berlin were transmitted to selected small television houses () in Berlin and Hamburg.\n\nIn 1941, the first NTSC meetings produced a single standard for US broadcasts. US television broadcasts began in earnest in the immediate post-war era, and by 1950 there were 6 million televisions in the United States.\n\nThe basic idea of using three monochrome images to produce a color image had been experimented with almost as soon as black-and-white televisions had first been built.\n\nAmong the earliest published proposals for television was one by Maurice Le Blanc in 1880 for a color system, including the first mentions in television literature of line and frame scanning, although he gave no practical details. Polish inventor Jan Szczepanik patented a color television system in 1897, using a selenium photoelectric cell at the transmitter and an electromagnet controlling an oscillating mirror and a moving prism at the receiver. But his system contained no means of analyzing the spectrum of colors at the transmitting end, and could not have worked as he described it. An Armenian inventor, Hovannes Adamian, also experimented with color television as early as 1907. The first color television project is claimed by him, and was patented in Germany on March 31, 1908, patent № 197183, then in Britain, on April 1, 1908, patent № 7219, in France (patent № 390326) and in Russia in 1910 (patent № 17912).\n\nScottish inventor John Logie Baird demonstrated the world's first color transmission on July 3, 1928, using scanning discs at the transmitting and receiving ends with three spirals of apertures, each spiral with filters of a different primary color; and three light sources, controlled by the signal, at the receiving end, with a commutator to alternate their illumination. The demonstration was of a young girl wearing different colored hats. Noele Gordon went on to become a successful TV actress, famous for the soap opera \"Crossroads\". Baird also made the world's first color broadcast on February 4, 1938, sending a mechanically scanned 120-line image from Baird's Crystal Palace studios to a projection screen at London's Dominion Theatre.\n\nMechanically scanned color television was also demonstrated by Bell Laboratories in June 1929 using three complete systems of photoelectric cells, amplifiers, glow-tubes, and color filters, with a series of mirrors to superimpose the red, green, and blue images into one full color image.\n\nAs was the case with black-and-white television, an electronic means of scanning would be superior to the mechanical systems like Baird's. The obvious solution on the broadcast end would be to use three conventional Iconoscopes with colored filters in front of them to produce an RGB signal. Using three separate tubes each looking at the same scene would produce slight differences in parallax between the frames, so in practice a single lens was used with a mirror or prism system to separate the colors for the separate tubes. Each tube captured a complete frame and the signal was converted into radio in a fashion essentially identical to the existing black-and-white systems.\n\nThe problem with this approach was there was no simple way to recombine them on the receiver end. If each image was sent at the same time on different frequencies, the images would have to be \"stacked\" somehow on the display, in real time. The simplest way to do this would be to reverse the system used in the camera: arrange three separate black-and-white displays behind colored filters and then optically combine their images using mirrors or prisms onto a suitable screen, like frosted glass. RCA built just such a system in order to present the first electronically scanned color television demonstration on February 5, 1940, privately shown to members of the US Federal Communications Commission at the RCA plant in Camden, New Jersey. This system, however, suffered from the twin problems of costing at least three times as much as a conventional black-and-white set, as well as having very dim pictures, the result of the fairly low illumination given off by tubes of the era. Projection systems of this sort would become common decades later, however, with improvements in technology.\n\nAnother solution would be to use a single screen, but break it up into a pattern of closely spaced colored phosphors instead of an even coating of white. Three receivers would be used, each sending its output to a separate electron gun, aimed at its colored phosphor. Although obvious, this solution was not practical. The electron guns used in monochrome televisions had limited resolution, and if one wanted to retain the resolution of existing monochrome displays, the guns would have to focus on individual dots three times smaller. This was beyond the state of the art at the time.\n\nInstead, a number of hybrid solutions were developed that combined a conventional monochrome display with a colored disk or mirror. In these systems the three colored images were sent one after each other, in either complete frames in the \"field-sequential color system\", or for each line in the \"line-sequential\" system. In both cases a colored filter was rotated in front of the display in sync with the broadcast. Since three separate images were being sent in sequence, if they used existing monochrome radio signaling standards they would have an effective refresh rate of only 20 fields, or 10 frames, a second, well into the region where flicker would become visible. In order to avoid this, these systems increased the frame rate considerably, making the signal incompatible with existing monochrome standards.\n\nThe first practical example of this sort of system was again pioneered by John Logie Baird. In 1940 he publicly demonstrated a color television combining a traditional black-and-white display with a rotating colored disk. This device was very \"deep\", but was later improved with a mirror folding the light path into an entirely practical device resembling a large conventional console. However, Baird was not happy with the design, and as early as 1944 had commented to a British government committee that a fully electronic device would be better.\n\nIn 1939, Hungarian engineer Peter Carl Goldmark introduced an electro-mechanical system while at CBS, which contained an Iconoscope sensor. The CBS field-sequential color system was partly mechanical, with a disc made of red, blue, and green filters spinning inside the television camera at 1,200 rpm, and a similar disc spinning in synchronization in front of the cathode ray tube inside the receiver set. The system was first demonstrated to the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) on August 29, 1940, and shown to the press on September 4.\n\nCBS began experimental color field tests using film as early as August 28, 1940, and live cameras by November 12. NBC (owned by RCA) made its first field test of color television on February 20, 1941. CBS began daily color field tests on June 1, 1941. These color systems were not compatible with existing black-and-white television sets, and as no color television sets were available to the public at this time, viewing of the color field tests was restricted to RCA and CBS engineers and the invited press. The War Production Board halted the manufacture of television and radio equipment for civilian use from April 22, 1942 to August 20, 1945, limiting any opportunity to introduce color television to the general public.\n\nAs early as 1940, Baird had started work on a fully electronic system he called the \"Telechrome\". Early Telechrome devices used two electron guns aimed at either side of a phosphor plate. The phosphor was patterned so the electrons from the guns only fell on one side of the patterning or the other. Using cyan and magenta phosphors, a reasonable limited-color image could be obtained. He also demonstrated the same system using monochrome signals to produce a 3D image (called \"stereoscopic\" at the time). Baird's demonstration on August 16, 1944 was the first example of a practical color television system. Work on the Telechrome continued and plans were made to introduce a three-gun version for full color. However, Baird's untimely death in 1946 ended development of the Telechrome system.\n\nSimilar concepts were common through the 1940s and 50s, differing primarily in the way they re-combined the colors generated by the three guns. The Geer tube was similar to Baird's concept, but used small pyramids with the phosphors deposited on their outside faces, instead of Baird's 3D patterning on a flat surface. The Penetron used three layers of phosphor on top of each other and increased the power of the beam to reach the upper layers when drawing those colors. The Chromatron used a set of focusing wires to select the colored phosphors arranged in vertical stripes on the tube.\n\nIn the immediate post-war era the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) was inundated with requests to set up new television stations. Worrying about congestion of the limited number of channels available, the FCC put a moratorium on all new licenses in 1948 while considering the problem. A solution was immediately forthcoming; rapid development of radio receiver electronics during the war had opened a wide band of higher frequencies to practical use, and the FCC set aside a large section of these new UHF bands for television broadcast. At the time, black and white television broadcasting was still in its infancy in the U.S., and the FCC started to look at ways of using this newly available bandwidth for color broadcasts. Since no existing television would be able to tune in these stations, they were free to pick an incompatible system and allow the older VHF channels to die off over time.\n\nThe FCC called for technical demonstrations of color systems in 1948, and the Joint Technical Advisory Committee (JTAC) was formed to study them. CBS displayed improved versions of its original design, now using a single 6 MHz channel (like the existing black-and-white signals) at 144 fields per second and 405 lines of resolution. Color Television Inc. demonstrated its line-sequential system, while Philco demonstrated a dot-sequential system based on its beam-index tube-based \"Apple\" tube technology. Of the entrants, the CBS system was by far the best-developed, and won head-to-head testing every time.\n\nWhile the meetings were taking place it was widely known within the industry that RCA was working on a dot-sequential system that was compatible with existing black-and-white broadcasts, but RCA declined to demonstrate it during the first series of meetings. Just before the JTAC presented its findings, on August 25, 1949, RCA broke its silence and introduced its system as well. The JTAC still recommended the CBS system, and after the resolution of an ensuing RCA lawsuit, color broadcasts using the CBS system started on June 25, 1951. By this point the market had changed dramatically; when color was first being considered in 1948 there were fewer than a million television sets in the U.S., but by 1951 there were well over 10 million. The idea that the VHF band could be allowed to \"die\" was no longer practical.\n\nDuring its campaign for FCC approval, CBS gave the first demonstrations of color television to the general public, showing an hour of color programs daily Mondays through Saturdays, beginning January 12, 1950, and running for the remainder of the month, over WOIC in Washington, D.C., where the programs could be viewed on eight 16-inch color receivers in a public building. Due to high public demand, the broadcasts were resumed February 13–21, with several evening programs added. CBS initiated a limited schedule of color broadcasts from its New York station WCBS-TV Mondays to Saturdays beginning November 14, 1950, making ten color receivers available for the viewing public. All were broadcast using the single color camera that CBS owned. The New York broadcasts were extended by coaxial cable to Philadelphia's WCAU-TV beginning December 13, and to Chicago on January 10, making them the first network color broadcasts.\n\nAfter a series of hearings beginning in September 1949, the FCC found the RCA and CTI systems fraught with technical problems, inaccurate color reproduction, and expensive equipment, and so formally approved the CBS system as the U.S. color broadcasting standard on October 11, 1950. An unsuccessful lawsuit by RCA delayed the first commercial network broadcast in color until June 25, 1951, when a musical variety special titled simply \"Premiere\" was shown over a network of five East Coast CBS affiliates. Viewing was again restricted: the program could not be seen on black-and-white sets, and \"Variety\" estimated that only thirty prototype color receivers were available in the New York area. Regular color broadcasts began that same week with the daytime series \"The World Is Yours\" and \"Modern Homemakers\".\n\nWhile the CBS color broadcasting schedule gradually expanded to twelve hours per week (but never into prime time), and the color network expanded to eleven affiliates as far west as Chicago, its commercial success was doomed by the lack of color receivers necessary to watch the programs, the refusal of television manufacturers to create adapter mechanisms for their existing black-and-white sets, and the unwillingness of advertisers to sponsor broadcasts seen by almost no one. CBS had bought a television manufacturer in April, and in September 1951, production began on the only CBS-Columbia color television model, with the first color sets reaching retail stores on September 28. But it was too little, too late. Only 200 sets had been shipped, and only 100 sold, when CBS discontinued its color television system on October 20, 1951, ostensibly by request of the National Production Authority for the duration of the Korean War, and bought back all the CBS color sets it could to prevent lawsuits by disappointed customers. RCA chairman David Sarnoff later charged that the NPA's order had come \"out of a situation artificially created by one company to solve its own perplexing problems\" because CBS had been unsuccessful in its color venture.\n\nWhile the FCC was holding its JTAC meetings, development was taking place on a number of systems allowing true simultaneous color broadcasts, \"dot-sequential color systems\". Unlike the hybrid systems, dot-sequential televisions used a signal very similar to existing black-and-white broadcasts, with the intensity of every dot on the screen being sent in succession.\n\nIn 1938 Georges Valensi demonstrated an encoding scheme that would allow color broadcasts to be encoded so they could be picked up on existing black-and-white sets as well. In his system the output of the three camera tubes were re-combined to produce a single \"luminance\" value that was very similar to a monochrome signal and could be broadcast on the existing VHF frequencies. The color information was encoded in a separate \"chrominance\" signal, consisting of two separate signals, the original blue signal minus the luminance (B'–Y'), and red-luma (R'–Y'). These signals could then be broadcast separately on a different frequency; a monochrome set would tune in only the luminance signal on the VHF band, while color televisions would tune in both the luminance and chrominance on two different frequencies, and apply the reverse transforms to retrieve the original RGB signal. The downside to this approach is that it required a major boost in bandwidth use, something the FCC was interested in avoiding.\n\nRCA used Valensi's concept as the basis of all of its developments, believing it to be the only proper solution to the broadcast problem. However, RCA's early sets using mirrors and other projection systems all suffered from image and color quality problems, and were easily bested by CBS's hybrid system. But solutions to these problems were in the pipeline, and RCA in particular was investing massive sums (later estimated at $100 million) to develop a usable dot-sequential tube. RCA was beaten to the punch by the Geer tube, which used three B&W tubes aimed at different faces of colored pyramids to produce a color image. All-electronic systems included the Chromatron, Penetron and beam-index tube that were being developed by various companies. While investigating all of these, RCA's teams quickly started focusing on the shadow mask system.\n\nIn July 1938 the shadow mask color television was patented by Werner Flechsig (1900–1981) in Germany, and was demonstrated at the International radio exhibition Berlin in 1939. Most CRT color televisions used today are based on this technology. His solution to the problem of focusing the electron guns on the tiny colored dots was one of brute-force; a metal sheet with holes punched in it allowed the beams to reach the screen only when they were properly aligned over the dots. Three separate guns were aimed at the holes from slightly different angles, and when their beams passed through the holes the angles caused them to separate again and hit the individual spots a short distance away on the back of the screen. The downside to this approach was that the mask cut off the vast majority of the beam energy, allowing it to hit the screen only 15% of the time, requiring a massive increase in beam power to produce acceptable image brightness.\n\nIn spite of these problems in both the broadcast and display systems, RCA pressed ahead with development and was ready for a second assault on the standards by 1950.\n\nThe possibility of a compatible color broadcast system was so compelling that the NTSC decided to re-form, and held a second series of meetings starting in January 1950. Having only recently selected the CBS system, the FCC heavily opposed the NTSC's efforts. One of the FCC Commissioners, R. F. Jones, went so far as to assert that the engineers testifying in favor of a compatible system were \"in a conspiracy against the public interest\".\n\nUnlike the FCC approach where a standard was simply selected from the existing candidates, the NTSC would produce a board that was considerably more pro-active in development.\n\nStarting before CBS color even got on the air, the U.S. television industry, represented by the National Television System Committee, worked in 1950–1953 to develop a color system that was compatible with existing black-and-white sets and would pass FCC quality standards, with RCA developing the hardware elements. (\"Compatible color,\" a phrase from advertisements for early sets, appears in the song \"America\" of \"West Side Story\", 1957.) RCA first made publicly announced field tests of the dot sequential color system over its New York station WNBT in July 1951. When CBS testified before Congress in March 1953 that it had no further plans for its own color system, the National Production Authority dropped its ban on the manufacture of color television receivers, and the path was open for the NTSC to submit its petition for FCC approval in July 1953, which was granted on December 17. The first publicly announced network demonstration of a program using the NTSC \"compatible color\" system was an episode of NBC's \"Kukla, Fran and Ollie\" on August 30, 1953, although it was viewable in color only at the network's headquarters. The first network broadcast to go out over the air in NTSC color was a performance of the opera \"Carmen\" on October 31, 1953.\n\nColour broadcasts from the United States were available to Canadian population centers near the border since the mid-1950s. At the time that NTSC colour broadcasting was officially introduced into Canada in 1966, less than one percent of Canadian households had a colour television set. Colour television in Canada was launched on the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation's (CBC) English language TV service on September 1, 1966. Private television broadcaster CTV also started colour broadcasts in early September 1966.\nThe CBC's French-language TV service, Radio-Canada, was broadcasting colour programming for 15 hours a week in 1968. Full-time colour transmissions started in 1974 on the CBC, with other private sector broadcasters in the country doing so by the end of the 1970s.\n\nThe following provinces and areas of Canada introduced colour television by the years as followed:\n\nCuba in 1958 became the second country in the world to introduce color television broadcasting, with Havana's Channel 12 using standards established by the NTSC Committee of United States Federal Communications Commission in 1940, and American technology patented by the American electronics company RCA, or Radio Corporation of America. But the color transmissions ended when broadcasting stations were seized in the Cuban Revolution in 1959, and did not return until 1975, using equipment acquired from Japan's NEC Corporation, and SECAM equipment from the Soviet Union, adapted for the American NTSC standard.\n\nGuillermo González Camarena independently invented and developed a field-sequential tricolor disk system in México in the late 1930s, for which he requested a patent in México on August 19 of 1940 and in the USA in 1941. González Camarena produced his color television system in his laboratory Gon-Cam for the Mexican market and exported it to the Columbia College of Chicago, who regarded it as the best system in the world. Goldmark actually applied patent for the same field-sequential tricolor system in USA on September 7 of 1940; while González Camarena made his application in México nineteen days before, on August 19 of 1940.\n\nOn August 31, 1946 González Camarena sent his first color transmission from his lab in the offices of The Mexican League of Radio Experiments at Lucerna St. No. 1, in Mexico City. The video signal was transmitted at a frequency of 115 MHz. and the audio in the 40 metre band. He obtained authorization to make the first publicly announced color broadcast in Mexico, on February 8, 1963, of the program \"Paraíso Infantil\" on Mexico City's XHGC-TV, using the NTSC system which had by now been adopted as the standard for color programming.\n\nGonzález Camarena also invented the \"Simplified Mexican Color TV system\" as a much simpler and cheaper alternative to the NTSC system. Due to its simplicity, NASA used a modified version of the \"Simplified Mexican Color TV system\" in his Voyager mission of 1979, to take pictures and video of Jupiter.\n\nAlthough all-electronic color was introduced in the U.S. in 1953, high prices and the scarcity of color programming greatly slowed its acceptance in the marketplace. The first national color broadcast (the 1954 Tournament of Roses Parade) occurred on January 1, 1954, but over the next dozen years most network broadcasts, and nearly all local programming, continued to be in black-and-white. In 1956 NBC's \"The Perry Como Show\" became the first live network television series to present a majority of episodes in color. CBS's \"The Big Record\", starring pop vocalist Patti Page, was the first television show broadcast in color for the entire 1957-1958 season; its production costs were greater than most movies were at the time not only because of all the stars featured on the hour-long extravaganza but the extremely high-intensity lighting and electronics required for the new RCA TK-41 cameras. It was not until the mid-1960s that color sets started selling in large numbers, due in part to the color transition of 1965 in which it was announced that over half of all network prime-time programming would be broadcast in color that autumn. The first all-color prime-time season came just one year later.\n\nNBC made the first coast-to-coast color broadcast when it telecast the Tournament of Roses Parade on January 1, 1954, with public demonstrations given across the United States on prototype color receivers by manufacturers RCA, General Electric, Philco, Raytheon, Hallicrafters, Hoffman, Pacific Mercury, and others. A color model from Westinghouse H840CK15 ($1,295, or ) became available in the New York area on February 28, 1954 and is generally agreed to be the first production receiver using NTSC color offered to the public; a less expensive color model from RCA (CT-100) reached dealers in April 1954. Television's first prime time network color series was \"The Marriage\", a situation comedy broadcast live by NBC in the summer of 1954. NBC's anthology series \"Ford Theatre\" became the first network color filmed series that October.\n\nEarly color telecasts could be preserved only on the black-and-white kinescope process introduced in 1947. It was not until September 1956 that NBC began using color film to time-delay and preserve some of its live color telecasts. Ampex introduced a color videotape recorder in 1958, which NBC used to tape \"An Evening With Fred Astaire,\" the oldest surviving network color videotape. This system was also used to unveil a demonstration of color television for the press. On May 22, 1958, President Dwight D. Eisenhower visited the WRC-TV NBC studios in Washington, D.C. and gave a speech touting the new technology's merits. His speech was recorded in color, and a copy of this videotape was given to the Library of Congress for posterity.\n\nSeveral syndicated shows had episodes filmed in color during the 1950s, including \"The Cisco Kid\", \"The Lone Ranger\", \"My Friend Flicka\", and \"Adventures of Superman\". The first two were carried by some stations equipped for color telecasts well before NBC began its regular weekly color dramas in 1959, beginning with the Western series \"Bonanza\".\n\nNBC was at the forefront of color programming because its parent company RCA manufactured the most successful line of color sets in the 1950s, and by 1959 RCA was the only remaining major manufacturer of color sets. CBS and ABC, which were not affiliated with set manufacturers and were not eager to promote their competitor's product, dragged their feet into color. CBS broadcast color specials and sometimes aired its big weekly variety shows in color, but it offered no regularly scheduled color programming until the fall of 1965. At least one CBS show, \"The Lucy Show\", was filmed in color beginning in 1963 but continued to be telecast in black and white through the end of the 1964–65 season. ABC delayed its first color programs until 1962, but these were initially only broadcasts of the cartoon shows \"The Flintstones\", \"The Jetsons\" and \"Beany and Cecil\". The DuMont network, although it did have a television-manufacturing parent company, was in financial decline by 1954 and was dissolved two years later.\n\nThe relatively small amount of network color programming, combined with the high cost of color television sets, meant that as late as 1964 only 3.1 percent of television households in the U.S. had a color set. But by the mid-1960s, the subject of color programming turned into a ratings war. A 1965 ARB study that proposed an emerging trend in color television set sales convinced NBC that a full shift to color would gain a ratings advantage over its two competitors. As a result, NBC provided the catalyst for rapid color expansion by announcing that its prime time schedule for fall 1965 would be almost entirely in color. ABC and CBS followed suit and over half of their combined prime-time programming also was in color that season, but they were still reluctant to telecast all their programming in color due to production costs. All three broadcast networks were airing full color prime time schedules by the 1966–67 broadcast season, and ABC aired its last new black-and-white daytime programming in December 1967. Public broadcasting networks like NET, however, did not use color for a majority of their programming until 1968. The number of color television sets sold in the U.S. did not exceed black-and-white sales until 1972, which was also the first year that more than fifty percent of television households in the U.S. had a color set. This was also the year that \"in color\" notices before color television programs ended, due to the rise in color television set sales, and color programming having become the norm.\n\nIn a display of foresight, Disney had filmed many of its earlier shows in color so they were able to be repeated on NBC, and since most of Disney's feature-length films were also made in color, they could now also be telecast in that format. To emphasize the new feature, the series was re-dubbed \"Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color\", which premiered in September 1961, and retained that moniker until 1969.\n\nBy the mid-1970s the only stations broadcasting in black-and-white were a few high-numbered UHF stations in small markets, and a handful of low-power repeater stations in even smaller markets such as vacation spots. By 1979, even the last of these had converted to color and by the early 1980s, B&W sets had been pushed into niche markets, notably low-power uses, small portable sets, or use as video monitor screens in lower-cost consumer equipment. By the late 1980s, even those areas switched to color sets.\n\nColor broadcasting in Hawaii started in September 1965, and in Alaska a year later. One of the last television stations in North America to convert to color, WQEX (now WINP-TV) in Pittsburgh, started broadcasting in color on October 16, 1986 after its black-and-white transmitter, which dated from the 1950s, broke down in February 1985 and the parts required to fix it were no longer available. The then-owner of WQEX, PBS member station WQED, diverted some of its pledge money into getting a color transmitter for WQEX.\n\nEarly color sets were either floor-standing console models or tabletop versions nearly as bulky and heavy, so in practice, they remained firmly anchored in one place. The introduction of GE's relatively compact and lightweight Porta-Color set in the spring of 1966 made watching color television a more flexible and convenient proposition. In 1972, sales of color sets finally surpassed sales of black-and-white sets. Also in 1972, the last holdout among daytime network programs converted to color, resulting in the first completely all-color network season.\n\nThe first regular colour broadcasts in Europe were by the UK's BBC2 beginning on July 1, 1967 (PAL). West Germany's first colour broadcast occurred in August (PAL), followed by the Netherlands in September (PAL), and by France in October (SECAM). Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Austria, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, and Hungary all started regular colour broadcasts around 1969/1970. Ireland's national TV station RTÉ began using colour in 1968 for recorded programmes; the first outside broadcast made in colour for RTÉ Television was when Ireland hosted the Eurovision Song Contest in Dublin in 1971. The PAL system spread through most of Western Europe.\n\nMore European countries introduced colour television using the PAL system in the 1970s and early 1980s; examples include Belgium (1971), Yugoslavia/Serbia (1971), Spain (1972, but not fully implemented until 1978), Iceland (1973), Portugal (1975, but not fully implemented until 1980), Albania (1981), Turkey (1981) and Romania (1983, but not fully implemented until 1990). In Italy there were debates to adopt a national colour television system, the \"ISA\", developed by Indesit, but that idea was scrapped. As a result, Italy was one of the last European countries to officially adopt the PAL system in 1977.\n\nFrance, Luxembourg, and most of the Eastern Bloc along with their overseas territories opted for SECAM. SECAM was a popular choice in countries with much hilly terrain, and technologically backward countries with a very large installed base of monochrome equipment, since the greater ruggedness of the SECAM signal could cope much better with poorly maintained equipment. However, for many countries the decision was more down to politics than technical merit.\n\nA drawback of SECAM for production is that, unlike PAL or NTSC, certain post-production operations of encoded SECAM signals are not really possible without a significant drop in quality. As an example, a simple fade to black is trivial in NTSC and PAL: one merely reduces the signal level until it is zero. However, in SECAM the colour difference signals, which are frequency modulated, need first to be decoded to e.g. RGB, then the fade-to-black is applied, and finally the resulting signal is re-encoded into SECAM. Because of this, much SECAM video editing was actually done using PAL equipment, then the resultant signal was converted to SECAM. Another drawback of SECAM is that comb filtering, allowing better colour separation, is not possible in TV receivers. This was not, however, much of a drawback in the early days of SECAM as such filters were not readily available in high-end TV sets before the 1990s.\n\nThe first regular colour broadcasts in SECAM were started on October 1, 1967, on France's Second Channel (ORTF 2e chaîne).\nIn France and the UK colour broadcasts were made on UHF frequencies, the VHF band being used for black and white, 405 lines in UK or 819 lines in France, until the beginning of the 1980s. Countries elsewhere that were already broadcasting 625-line monochrome on VHF and UHF, simply transmitted colour programs on the same channels.\n\nSome British television programs, particularly those made by or for ITC Entertainment, were shot on colour film before the introduction of colour television to the UK, for the purpose of sales to U.S. networks. The first British show to be made in colour was the drama series \"The Adventures of Sir Lancelot\" (1956–57), which was initially made in black and white but later shot in colour for sale to the NBC network in the United States. Other British colour television programs include \"Stingray\" (1964–1965), which was the first British TV show to be filmed entirely in colour, \"Thunderbirds\" (1965–1966) and \"Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons\" (1967–1968). However, most UK series predominantly made using videotape, such as \"Doctor Who\" (1963–89; 2005–present) did not begin colour production until later, with the first colour \"Doctor Who\" episodes not airing until 1970.\n\nIn Japan, NHK and NTV introduced color television, using a variation of the NTSC system (called NTSC-J) on September 10, 1960, making it the first country in Asia to introduce color television. The Philippines (1966) and Taiwan (1969) also adopted the NTSC system.\n\nOther countries in the region instead used the PAL system, starting with Australia (1967, originally scheduled for 1972, but not fully implemented until 1975), and then Thailand (1969; this country converted from a 525-line system to 625 lines), Hong Kong (1970), the People's Republic of China (1971), New Zealand (1973), North Korea (1974), Singapore (1974), Pakistan (1976, but not fully implemented until 1982), Kazakhstan (1978), Vietnam (1978), Malaysia (1978, but not fully implemented until 1980), Indonesia (1979), India (1979, but not fully implemented until 1982), and Bangladesh (1980). South Korea did not introduce color television (using NTSC) until 1980 (full-time color transmissions began in 1981), although it was already manufacturing color television sets for export. Cambodia was the last country in Asia to introduce color television, officially introduced in 1981 using the PAL system, with full-time color transmissions since 1985.\n\nNearly all of the countries in the Middle East use PAL. The first country in the Middle East to introduce color television was Iraq in 1967. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait, Bahrain, and Qatar followed in the mid-1970s, but Israel, Lebanon, and Cyprus continued to broadcast in black and white until the early 1980s. Israeli television even erased the color signals using a device called the \"mekhikon\".\n\nThe first color television service in Africa was introduced on the Tanzanian island of Zanzibar, in 1973, using PAL. In 1973 also, MBC of Mauritius broadcast the OCAMM Conference, in color, using SECAM. At the time, South Africa did not have a television service at all, owing to opposition from the apartheid regime, but in 1976, one was finally launched. Nigeria adopted PAL for color transmissions in 1974 in the then Benue Plateau state in the north central region of the country, but countries such as Ghana and Zimbabwe continued with black and white until 1984. The Sierra Leone Broadcasting Service (SLBS) started television broadcasting in 1963 as a cooperation between the SLBS and commercial interests; coverage was extended to all districts in 1978 when the service was also upgraded to color.\n\nIn contrast to most other countries in the Americas, which had adopted NTSC, Brazil began broadcasting in color using PAL-M. Its first color transmission was on February 19, 1972. However Ecuador was the first South American country to use NTSC color. Its first color transmission was on November 5, 1974. In 1978, Argentina started broadcasting in color using PAL-N in connection with the country's hosting of the FIFA World Cup. Some countries in South America, including Bolivia, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay, continued to broadcast in black and white until the early 1980s.\n\nCor Dillen, director and later CEO of the South American branch of Philips, was responsible for bringing color television to South America.\n\nThere are three main analog broadcast television systems in use around the world, PAL (Phase Alternating Line), NTSC (National Television System Committee), and SECAM (Séquentiel Couleur à Mémoire—Sequential Color with Memory).\n\nThe system used in The Americas and part of the Far East is NTSC. Most of Asia, Western Europe, Australia, Africa, and Eastern South America use PAL (though Brazil uses a hybrid PAL-M system). Eastern Europe and France uses SECAM. Generally, a device (such as a television) can only read or display video encoded to a standard which the device is designed to support; otherwise, the source must be converted (such as when European programs are broadcast in North America or vice versa).\n\nThis table illustrates the differences:\nDigital television broadcasting standards, such as ATSC, DVB-T, DVB-T2, and ISDB, have superseded these analog transmission standards in many countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43137495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43137495", "title": "Conrad Gargett", "text": "Conrad Gargett\n\nConrad Gargett is an Australian architectural practice, founded in Brisbane in 1890 and is one of Queensland's oldest architectural firms.\n\nThe practice operates out of studios in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Newcastle, Townsville and Addis Ababa.\n\nConrad Gargett Architecture was established as HW Atkinson in 1890 by Henry Wallace Atkinson with the winning design for the new Brisbane Head Fire Station. Charles McLay joined Atkinson to form the partnership HW Atkinson & Chas McLay in 1907. The practice subsequently assumed the position of Diocesan Architect to the Anglican Church, designing a number of schools and churches in South East Queensland. Following the death of McLay in 1918 the practice was renamed Atkinson & Conrad when Arnold Conrad became a partner. The new firm was noted for its use of the distinctive Spanish Mission style in many of its projects. The practice was also appointed to the position of Hospital Architect by various Hospital's Boards and played a large role in the design of hospitals in Queensland between 1920–80, including extensive projects at the Royal Brisbane Hospital, South Brisbane Auxiliary Hospital (now Princess Alexandra Hospital), Prince Charles Hospital and Gold Coast Hospital. Following their appointment in 1926 as architects to the Brisbane and South Coast Hospital Board, the practice took on a new partner Lange Leopold Powell becoming Atkinson, Powell & Conrad.\n\nDuring the post-war era, the firm now called AH Conrad & TBF Gargett (Thomas Brenan Femister Gargett having become a partner) became a prominent designer of commercial office towers in the Brisbane CBD. Most notable of these were the SGIO Building and Theatre (now Suncorp Metway Plaza) and head offices for three of the big four banks. The MLC building, designed in 1955 with Bates Smart, was one of the first commercial office buildings to be built in the undecorated, modern style in Brisbane.\n\nIn 2017 a book titled \"Conrad Gargett\" was published, detailing the history of the firm between 1890 and 2015. The book was edited by Robert Riddel and attempts to provide a broader historical and architectural context to the various phases in which the practice has operated.\n\nConrad Gargett formed after Conrad Gargett Architecture undertook a series of mergers with Riddel Architecture (2012) and Ancher Mortlock Woolley (2013). The contemporary firm is a multi-disciplinary practice, which specialises in health, education, heritage and defence.\n\nRiddel Architecture was established in 1982 by Robert Riddel.\n\nThe Brisbane-based practice focused on heritage, conservation and adaptive reuse projects. Notable works by the firm include the restoration and adaptive re-use of Brisbane's Customs House, the former Wests Furniture Showroom and the former Queensland National Bank at 308 Queen Street (in association with Donovan Hill).\n\nAncher Mortlock Woolley, initially called Ancher Mortlock & Murray, was established in 1946 by Sydney Ancher, Bryce Mortlock and Stuart Murray. The Sydney-based practice was later joined by Ken Woolley in 1964.\n\nThe practice designed modern structures, winning both the Sir Zelman Cowen Award for Public Architecture and the Robin Boyd Award for Residential Architecture. Notable projects by the practice include Town Hall House and Sydney Square (1977) and more recently, the Royal Agricultural Showground Exhibition Halls and restoration of the State Library of Victoria.\n\nConrad Gargett has designed some of Australia's landmark buildings predominately in Queensland, including the following major architectural projects:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10919251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10919251", "title": "Croatian music festivals", "text": "Croatian music festivals\n\nThe Croatian music festivals are a series of music festivals which showcase the top Croatian musical acts, in both traditional and contemporary music. They usually involve live performances as well as awards given by festival jurors as well as from the fans. The majority of the festivals release a compilation of the songs entered.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18212580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18212580", "title": "Cruise collection", "text": "Cruise collection\n\nA cruise collection or \"resort collection\", sometimes also referred to as \"holiday\" or \"travel collection\" (\"collection croisière\", in French), is an inter-season or pre-season line of ready-to-wear clothing produced by a fashion house or fashion brand in addition to the recurrent twice-yearly seasonal collections - spring/summer and autumn (or fall)/winter - heralded at the fashion shows in New York, London, Paris and Milan.\n\nOriginally meant for wealthy customers or \"more seasoned jet-setters\" going on cruises (e.g. North Americans) or vacationing in the warm Mediterranean area (e.g. Europeans) during the winter months, cruise collections offer light spring or summer clothing when the weather at the points of sale actually calls for winter apparel. These days, they are targeted at customers who have \"finished buying their fall wardrobes and are looking ahead to vacations\". These \"warm-weather designs [...] arrive in the shops in the US in November\", after the autumn/winter collections and before the spring/summer collections, or generally between November/December and February in the Northern hemisphere.\n\nHigh fashion houses like Chanel, Dior, Gucci, Marc Jacobs, and Ralph Lauren offer cruise/resort collections. Although usually intended for women, lately \"menswear is coming aboard with Dolce & Gabbana, Giorgio Armani, Prada, Zegna, Etro, Gucci and Burberry often sneaking a few resort looks into the fall fashion shows\" or producing signature cruise collections. Yves Saint-Laurent presented its first men's cruise collection in 2006 which has since then been offered every year.\n\n"}
{"id": "57931476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57931476", "title": "Danaë (Blanchard)", "text": "Danaë (Blanchard)\n\nDanaë is a 1631-1633 oil on canvas painting by French artist Jacques Blanchard, now in the Musée des Beaux-Arts de Lyon in France. It shows Danaë receiving Jupiter in the form of a shower of gold.\n\n"}
{"id": "11194262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11194262", "title": "Ellipsis (narrative device)", "text": "Ellipsis (narrative device)\n\nEllipsis, often represented in text as \"...\", is the narrative device of omitting a portion of the sequence of events, allowing the reader to fill in the narrative gaps. Aside from its literary use, the ellipsis has a counterpart in film production. It is there to suggest an action by simply showing what happens before and after what is observed. The vast majority of films use ellipses to clear actions that add nothing to the narrative. Beyond these \"convenience\" ellipses, ellipses are also used to advance the story.\n\nAn ellipsis in narrative leaves out a portion of the story. This can be used to condense time, or as a stylistic method to allow the reader to fill in the missing portions of the narrative with their imagination. Ellipsis was also used in literature, as in the modernist works of Ernest Hemingway who pioneered the Iceberg Theory, also known as the theory of omission.\n\nVirginia Woolf's novel \"To the Lighthouse\" contains famous examples of literary ellipses. Between the first and second parts of the novel, many years pass and World War I is fought and won. The reader is left to infer the events that have taken place during the elapsed time by the changes evident in the characters in the novel. Another example is found in Edith Wharton's \"The Age of Innocence.\"\n\nEllipsis is a common procedure in film narrative, where movement and action unnecessary to the telling of a story will often be removed by editing. For example, there would be no need to show a character standing up from a chair and walking the length of a room to open a door. Instead, the character may be shown standing up from the chair and then in the next cut—normally viewed from a different angle, or with a cutaway shot in between, necessary to smooth over the gap—he would have already crossed the room and be over by the door. Narrative logic allows the viewer to disregard the ellipsis in this case. At the start of Stanley Kubrick's \"\" (1968), for example, a giant chronological leap is taken as the narrative jumps from the first tool of humankind (a bone) to what was then the most current (a space station). In this instance, however, the ellipsis – a match cut in film language – is filled by the metaphorical parallelism between the two objects, visually similar in shape and joined by a deep anthropological significance.\n\nThe Japanese director Yasujirō Ozu is also famous for his use of ellipsis. Important people or events would be omitted in his narration, leaving what has happened evident to audiences only through subsequent dialogue. For example, in \"Late Spring\" (1949), Noriko is shown about to leave for her wedding in her kimono, while the next scene shows Mr. Somiya in a bar after the wedding.\n"}
{"id": "36211652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36211652", "title": "Ethiopian art", "text": "Ethiopian art\n\nEthiopian art from the 4th century until the 20th can be divided into two broad groupings. First comes a distinctive tradition of Christian art, mostly for churches, in forms including painting, crosses, icons, illuminated manuscripts, and other metalwork such as crowns. Secondly there are popular arts and crafts such as textiles, basketry and jewellery, in which Ethiopian traditions are closer to those of other peoples in the region. Its history goes back almost three thousand years to the kingdom of D'mt. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church has been the predominant religion in Ethiopia for over 1500 years, for most of this period in a very close relation, or union, with the Coptic Christianity of Egypt, so that Coptic art has been the main formative influence on Ethiopian church art.\n\nPrehistoric rock art comparable to that of other African sites survives in a number of places, and until the arrival of Christianity stone stelae, often carved with simple reliefs, were erected as grave-markers and for other purposes in many regions; Tiya is one important site. The \"pre-Axumite\" Iron Age culture of about the 5th century BCE to the 1st century CE was influenced by the Kingdom of Kush to the north, and settlers from Arabia, and produced cities with simple temples in stone, such as the ruined one at Yeha, which is impressive for its date in the 4th or 5th century BCE.\n\nThe powerful Kingdom of Aksum emerged in the 1st century BCE and dominated Ethiopia until the 10th century, having become very largely Christian from the 4th century. Although some buildings and large, pre-Christian stelae exist, there appears to be no surviving Ethiopian Christian art from the Axumite period. However the earliest works remaining show a clear continuity with Coptic art of earlier periods. There was considerable destruction of churches and their contents in the 16th century when the country was invaded by Muslim neighbours. The revival of art after this was influenced by Catholic European art in both iconography and elements of style, but retained its Ethiopian character. In the 20th century, Western artists and architects began to be commissioned by the government, and to train local students, and more fully Westernized art was produced alongside continuations of traditional church art.\n\nChurch paintings in Ethiopia were likely produced as far back as the introduction of Christianity in the 4th century AD, although the earliest surviving examples come from the church of Debre Selam Mikael in the Tigray Region, dated to the 11th century AD. However, the 7th-century AD followers of the Islamic prophet Muhammad who fled to Axum in temporary exile mentioned that the original Church of Our Lady Mary of Zion was decorated with paintings. Other early paintings include those from the rock-hewn churches of Lalibela, dated to the 12th century AD, and in nearby Geneta Maryam, dated to the 13th century AD. However, paintings in illuminated manuscripts predate the earliest surviving church paintings; for instance, the Ethiopian Garima Gospels of the 4th-6th centuries AD contain illuminated scenes imitating the contemporary Byzantine style.\n\nEthiopian painting, on walls, in books, and in icons, is highly distinctive, though the style and iconography are closely related to the simplified Coptic version of Late Antique and Byzantine Christian art. It is typified by simplistic, almost cartoonish, figures with large, almond-shaped, eyes. Colours are usually bright and vivid. The majority of paintings are religious in nature, often decorating church walls and bibles. One of the best known examples of this type of painting is at Debre Berhan Selassie in Gondar (pictured), famed for its angel-covered roof (angels in Ethiopian art are often represented as winged heads) as well as its other murals dating from the late 17th century. Diptychs and triptychs are also commonly painted with religious icons. From the 16th century, Roman Catholic church art and European art in general began to exert some influence. However, Ethiopian art is highly conservative and retained much of its distinct character until modern times. The production of illuminated manuscripts for use continued up to the present day. Pilgrimages to Jerusalem, where there has long been an Ethiopian clerical presence, also allowed some contact with a wider range of Orthodox art.\n\nChurches may be very fully painted, although until the 19th century there is little sign of secular painting other than scenes commemorating the life of donors to churches on their walls. Unusually for Orthodox Christianity, icons were not usually kept in houses (where talimanic scrolls were often kept instead), but in the church. Some \"diptyches\" are in the form of a \"ark\" or \"tabot\", in these cases consecrated boxes with a painted inside of the lid, placed closed on the altar during Mass, somewhat equivalent to the altar stone in the Western church, and the antimins in other Orthodox churches. These are regarded as so holy that the laity is not allowed to see them, and they are wrapped in cloth when taken in procession.\n\nEthiopian diptychs often have a primary wing with a frame. A smaller second wing, which is only the size of the image within the frame, is painted on both sides to allow closed and open views. Icons are painted on a wood base support, but since about the 16th century with an intervening cloth support glued to a gesso layer above the wood. The binding medium for the paint is also animal-based glue, giving a matt finish which is then often varnished. A range of mostly mineral pigments are used, giving a palette based on reds, yellow and blues. Underdrawing was used, which may remain visible or reinforced by painted edges to areas of colour in the final layer.\n\nFrom the 15th century the Theotokos or Virgin Mary, with or without her Child, became increasingly popular. They used versions of a number of common Byzantine types, typically flanked by two archangels in iconic depictions. She is often depicted with a neighbouring image of a mounted Saint George and the Dragon, who in Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity is regarded as especially linked to Mary, for carrying messages or intervening in human affairs on her behalf.\n\nAnother important form of Ethiopian art, also related to Coptic styles, are crosses made from wood and metal. They are usually copper alloy or brass, plated (at least originally) with gold or silver. The heads are typically flat cast plates with elaborate and complex openwork decoration. The cross motif emerges from the decoration, with the whole design often forming a rotated square or circular shape, though the designs are highly varied and inventive. Many incorporate curved motifs rising from the base, which are called the \"arms of Adam\". Except in recent Western-influenced examples, they usually have no \"corpus\", or figure of Christ, and the design often incorporates numerous smaller crosses. Engraved figurative imagery has sometimes been added. Crosses are mostly either processional crosses, with the metal head mounted on a long wooden staff, carried in religious processions and during the liturgy, or hand crosses, with a shorter metal handle in the same casting as the head. Smaller crosses worn as jewellery are also common.\n\nThe Lalibela Cross is an especially venerated hand cross, perhaps of the 12th century, which was stolen from a church in Lalibela in 1997 and eventually recovered and returned from a Belgian collector in 2001.\n\nDistinctive forms of crown were worn in ceremonial contexts by royalty and important noble officials, as well as senior clergy. Royal crowns rose high, with a number of circular bands, while church crowns often resemble an elongated version of the typical European closed crown, with four arms joined at the top and surmounted by a cross.\n\nEthiopia has great ethnic and linguistic diversity, and styles in secular traditional crafts vary greatly in different parts of the country. There are a range of traditions in textiles, many with woven geometric decoration, although many types are also usually plain. Ethiopian church practices make a great deal of use of colourful textiles, and the more elaborate types are widely used as church vestments and as hangings, curtains and wrappings in churches, although they have now largely been supplanted by Western fabrics. Examples of both types can be seen in the picture at the top of the article. Icons may normally be veiled with a semi-transparent or opaque cloth; very thin chiffon-type cotton cloth is a speciality of Ethiopia, though usually with no pattern.\n\nColourful basketry with a coiled construction is common in rural Ethiopia. The products have many uses, such as storing grains, seeds and food and being used as tables and bowls. The Muslim city of Harar is well known for its high quality basketry, and many craft products of the Muslim minority relate to wider Islamic decorative traditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13393727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13393727", "title": "Form and content", "text": "Form and content\n\nIn art and art criticism, form and content are considered distinct aspects of a work of art. The term \"form\" refers to the work's style, techniques and media used, and how the elements of design are implemented. \"Content\", on the other hand, refers to a work's subject matter, or what is being depicted.\n\nIncongruity between form and content can be humorous.\n\n\nForm is one of the most frequent terms in literary criticism.it is often used merely to designate a genre or for patterns of meter lines and rhymes."}
{"id": "865961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=865961", "title": "Franz von Lenbach", "text": "Franz von Lenbach\n\nFranz Seraph Lenbach, after 1882, Ritter von Lenbach (13 December 1836, Schrobenhausen - 6 May 1904, Munich) was a German painter; known primary for his portraits of prominent personalities from the nobility, the arts, and industry. Because of his standing in society, he was often referred to as the \"Malerfürst\" (Painter Prince).\n\nHis father was a Master Mason for Schrobenhausen, who originally came from the Southern Tyrol, where the family name was spelled \"Lempach\". He completed his primary education at Landsberg in 1848, then attended a business school in Landshut. From 1851 to 1852, he was apprenticed to the sculptor Anselm Sickinger in Munich. At that time, his father died and he went home to help in the family business.\n\nHe was only there a short time before beginning studies at the Augsburg University of Applied Sciences. While there, he drew and painted in his spare time, befriended Johann Baptist Hofner (1832-1913), the animal painter, and decided to become an artist. In 1854, he obtained his family's reluctant permission to study at the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, and later took private lessons from Hermann Anschütz. \n\nLenbach was already an accomplished artist when he became the pupil of Karl von Piloty. In 1858, he was able to stage an exhibition at the Glaspalast and won a travel scholarship, which enabled him to accompany Piloty to Rome. A few works remain as the outcome of this first journey: \"A Peasant seeking Shelter from Bad Weather\" (1855), \"The Goatherd\" (1860, in the Schack Gallery, Munich) and \"The Arch of Titus\" (in the Palfy collection, Budapest). He also travelled to Paris and Brussels. It was about then that he started receiving his first portrait commissions.\n\nOn returning to Munich, he was at once called to Weimar to take the appointment of professor at the newly established Weimar Saxon Grand Ducal Art School, where he became known for taking his students on painting expeditions en plein aire. He remained for only two years, however, when he felt the need for more studies and decided to take another trip to Italy. During this time, he also found an important patron; Baron Adolf Friedrich von Schack. Through his support, Lenbach was able to leave for Italy in 1863 with a guaranteed annual income. \n\nHe returned to Munich in 1866. The following year, he won a gold medal at the Exposition Universelle and went to Spain for one year, accompanied by his student, Ernst Friedrich von Liphart, to make more copies of the Old Masters for Schack. Upon returning, his career as a portrait painter began in earnest. His breakthrough came in 1869, when he won a gold medal at the Glaspalast, despite being up against many fashionable French painters. After 1870, he began making visits to Vienna to develop a market for his paintings there, which even survived the Panic of 1873. It is also said that he travelled there frequently because he had a passion for Maria Beccadelli di Bologna, which was never returned.\n\nFrom 1875 to 1876 he, Hans Makart, and other associates made a trip to Egypt, which left a deep impression his style. In 1882, he was awarded the Order of Merit of the Bavarian Crown, which entitled him to become \"Von Lenbach\". The following year, he was back in Rome, where he lived in apartments at the Palazzo Borghese. In 1885, he was commissioned to do a portrait of Pope Leo XIII. As the Pope did not have time to sit for the portrait, a new technique was used to create a photographic template. He left Rome in 1887 and began building a villa in Munich. Later that year, he married Countess Magdalena Moltke.\n\nBy the 1890s, he was painting almost entirely from photographs, a common practice at the time, but he also began working too fast, in an effort to create sufficient income. In 1895, a major scandal erupted when one of his assistants took unfinished paintings and sketches, had students fill in the details, and passed them off as Lenbach's work. In 1896, he and Magdalena were divorced, over suspicions of infidelity with her doctor, Ernst Schweninger whom she did in fact later marry. Lenbach also remarried, to Charlotte von Hornstein, daughter of the composer Robert von Hornstein.\n\nHe refused to join the Munich Secession and was highly critical of the new Bavarian National Museum. He also began to paint women, almost exclusively, whereas before he had concentrated on men. Around 1900, he started to produce trading card designs for the Stollwerck chocolate company of Cologne.\n\nIn 1902, he became an honorary Knight in the Legion of Honour. That same year, he suffered a stroke while returning from a trip to his home town and never fully recovered. He died at his Munich villa two years later. He was buried at the Westfriedhof and many prominent figures spoke at his funeral.\n\nMost of Lenbach's paintings are now in national collections in the United Kingdom, with others in the Frye Art Museum in Seattle, Washington. The British collections include portraits by Lenbach of Bismarck and Gladstone in the National Galleries of Scotland and another of Gladstone in the Palace of Westminster.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3284186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3284186", "title": "Françoise Mouly", "text": "Françoise Mouly\n\nFrançoise Mouly (; born 24 October 1955) is a Paris-born New York-based designer, editor, and publisher. She is best known as co-founder, co-editor, and publisher of the comics and graphics magazine \"Raw\" (1980–1991), as the publisher of Raw Books and Toon Books, and since 1993 as the art editor of \"The New Yorker\". Mouly is married to cartoonist Art Spiegelman, and is the mother of writer Nadja Spiegelman.\n\nAs editor and publisher, Mouly has had considerable influence on the rise in production values in the English-language comics world since the early 1980s. She has played a role in providing outlets to new and foreign cartoonists, and in promoting comics as a serious artform and as an educational tool. The French government decorated Mouly as a Knight of the Order of Arts and Letters in 2001, and as Knight of the Legion of Honour in 2011.\n\nMouly was born in 1955 in Paris, France, the second of three daughters to Josée and Roger Mouly. She grew up in the well-to-do 17th arrondissement of Paris. Her father was a plastic surgeon who in 1951 developed with Charles Dufourmentel the Dufourmentel-Mouly method of breast reduction. The French government made him a Knight of the Legion of Honour.\n\nFrom a young age Mouly had a love of reading, including novels, illustrated fairytale collections, comics magazines such as \"Pilote\", and comics albums such as \"Tintin\". She excelled as a student, and her parents planned to have her study medicine and follow her father into plastic surgery. She spent vacation time assisting and observing her father at work. She was troubled with the ethics of plastic surgery, though, which she said \"exploits insecurity to such a high degree\".\n\nAt thirteen, Mouly witnessed the May 1968 events in France. The events led to Mouly's mother and sisters fleeing Paris. Her father stayed to be available to his patients, and Mouly stayed as his assistant. She developed sympathies with the anarchists, and read the weekly radical \"Hara-Kiri Hebdo\". She brought her radical leftist politics with her when her parents sent her in 1970 to the Lycée Jeanne D'Arc in central France, where she has said she was expelled \"twenty-four or twenty-five times because was trying to drag everyone to demonstrations\".\n\nMouly's father was disappointed when, upon Mouly's return to Paris, she chose to forgo medicine to study architecture at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts. She lived with a boyfriend in the Latin Quarter and traveled widely in Europe, took a two-and-a-half-month van trip with friends in 1972 that reached Afghanistan, and made a solo trip to Algeria in 1974 to study the vernacular architecture, during which she was robbed of her passport and money.\n\nMouly grew disenchanted with the lack of creative freedom a career in architecture would present her. Her family life had grown stressful, and her parents divorced in 1974. The same year, she broke off her studies and cleaned in a hotel to save money towards traveling to New York.\n\nWith no concrete plans, Mouly arrived in New York September 2, 1974, with $200 in the midst of a severe economic downturn. She familiarized herself into the New York avant-garde art and film worlds, and had a part in Richard Foreman's 1975 play \"Pandering to the Masses\". She settled into a loft in SoHo in 1975, and did odd jobs including selling cigarettes and magazines in Grand Central Station and assembling models for a Japanese architectural company, while struggling to improve her English.\n\nWhile looking for comics from which to practice reading English, she came across \"Arcade\", an magazine from San Francisco co-published by New Yorker Art Spiegelman. Avant-garde filmmaker friend Ken Jacobs introduced Mouly and Spiegelman, when Spiegelman was visiting, but they did not immediately develop a mutual interest. Spiegelman moved permanently back to New York later in the year. Occasionally the two ran across each other. After reading Spiegelman's 1973 strip \"Prisoner on the Hell Planet\", about his mother's suicide, Mouly felt the urge to contact him. An eight-hour phone call led to a deepening of their relationship. Spiegelman followed her to France when she had to return to fulfill obligations in her architecture course. After returning to the United States, when Mouly ran into visa problems in 1977, the couple solved them by getting married—first at City Hall, and then again after Mouly converted to Judaism to please Spiegelman's father. Beginning in 1978 Mouly and Spiegelman made yearly trips to Europe to explore the comics scene, and brought back European comics to show to their circle of friends.\n\nMouly became immersed in Spiegelman's personal theories of comics, and helped him prepare the lecture \"Language of the Comics\" delivered at the Collective for Living Cinema. She assisted in the putting together the lavish collection of Spiegelman's experimental strips \"Breakdowns\". The printer botched the printing of the book—30% of the print run was unusable. The remaining copies had poor distribution and sales. The experience motivated Mouly to gain control over the printing process, and to find a way to get such marginal material to sympathetic readers. She took courses in offset printing in Bedford–Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and bought an Addressograph-Multigraph Multilith printing press for her loft.\n\nIn 1978, she founded Raw Books and Graphics, a name settled on in part because of its small-operation feel, and part because it was reminiscent of \"Mad\" magazine. Mouly worked from an aesthetic inspired in part by the Russian Constructivists, who brought a design sense to everyday objects. Raw Books began by publishing postcards and prints by artists such as underground cartoonist Bill Griffith and Dutch cartoonist Joost Swarte. More ambitious projects included art objects such as the Zippy-Scope, a cardboard device with to watch a comic strip rolled up on a film spool, featuring Griffth's character Zippy the Pinhead. Some projects were more commercial, such as the annual \"Streets of SoHo Map and Guide\", whose advertising revenue financed much of Raw Books.\n\nHaving in this way honed her publishing skills, Mouly's ambition turned to magazine publication. Spiegelman was at first reluctant, jaded from his experience at \"Arcade\", but agreed on New Year's Eve 1979 to co-edit. The magazine was to provide an outlet for the kinds of comics that had difficulty finding a publisher in the US, in particular younger cartoonists who fit neither the superhero nor the underground mold, and European cartoonists who did not fit the sex-and-sci-fi appetites of \"Heavy Metal\" fans.\n\nIn the midst of a commercial and artistic fallow period in the American comics industry, the lavishly-printed, first issue of \"Raw\" appeared in July 1980. Its production values resulted in a $3.50 cover price, several times the going prices for comics, either mainstream or underground. Among the comics it contained was the only strip Mouly herself was to produce, \"Industry News and Review No. 6\", an autobiographical strip in which she contemplates her late-1970s anxieties and thoughts of suicide. Other strips in the eclectic anthology included an example of the early 20th-century newspaper strip \"Dream of the Rarebit Fiend\" by Winsor McCay, and an excerpt from \"Manhattan\" by contemporary French cartoonist Jacques Tardi. To comics academic Jeet Heer, \"Raw\" was \"a singular mixture of visual diversity and thematic unity\". Each issue contained a broad variety of styles linked by a common theme, be it urban despair, suicide, or a vision of America through foreign eyes. The best-known work to run in \"Raw\" was a serialization of Spiegelman's graphic novel \"Maus\", which ran as an insert for the duration of the magazine from the December 1980 second issue.\n\nMouly's approach was hands-on, and she gave great attention to every step of the printing process. The physicality of \"Raw\" was evident in each issue: tipped-in plates, bubblegum cards, and torn covers were part of the aesthetic of the magazine, accomplished by hand by Mouly, Spiegelman, and friends at gatherings after the printing of a new issue. Mouly was also hands-on when dealing with contributors, suggesting ideas and changes—an approach anathema to the editor-adverse underground spirit, but artists welcomed her input as in the end she did not interfere with their autonomy.\n\n\"Raw\" had a strong critical reception, and also sold surprisingly well. It was not without its critics, who charged it with being highbrow and elitist, or claimed it to be a one-man Spiegelman show. Pioneer underground cartoonist Robert Crumb responded in 1981 with the magazine \"Weirdo\", intended to remain free of editorial intrusion and stay true to comics' lowbrow roots.\n\nRaw Books published ten \"One Shot\" books throughout the 1980s by cartoonists such as Gary Panter, Sue Coe, and Jerry Moriarty. Mouly brought a similar production sensibility to these books to what she brought to \"Raw\": the cover to Panter's \"Jimbo\" was corrugated cardboard pasted with stickers of the book's main character. By the end of the decade, Pantheon Books had begun co-publishing Raw Books' output, and Penguin Books had picked up publishing of \"Raw\" itself. The three issues of the second volume of \"Raw\" came in a smaller, longer format with a changed emphasis on narrative rather than graphics.\n\nMouly divided her time between publishing and parenthood following the birth of daughter Nadja in 1987. Researching books for Sue Coe motivated her to take up science courses at Hunter College, perhaps toward a neuroscience degree. She abandoned this plan in 1991 when she gave birth to son Dashiell. In 1991, Mouly and Spiegelman published the final issue of \"Raw\", which was no longer a small, hands-on operation, nor was it something they still thought necessary, as the artists then had a range of publishing outlets that had not existed when \"Raw\" first saw the light of day.\n\nTina Brown became the editor of \"The New Yorker\" magazine in 1992, and was intent on changing it from the stolid, conservative image left it by William Shawn's long editorship. Her cover choices provoked controversy—in particular, one by Spiegelman for the 1993 Valentine's Day issue of a Hasidic man kissing an African-American woman. Writer Lawrence Weschler recommended Brown consider Mouly for the art editor position; Mouly and Brown met the following March. Mouly had reservations about the magazine's reputation for staidness and Brown's politics, but was taken with Brown on a personal level, whom she described as \"charismatic, quick-witted, full of energy\". Mouly proposed the magazine return to its roots by having artists as featured contributors, an increase in the visuals in the magazine, such as photographs and more illustrations, and covers in the topical style they had had under the magazine's founder Harold Ross. Brown accepted. Mouly brought a large number of cartoonists and artists to the periodical's interiors, including \"Raw\" contributors such as Coe, Crumb, Lorenzo Mattotti, and Chris Ware. The magazine's circulation doubled during Mouly's time there. In 2012 Mouly and daughter Nadja edited a collection of rejected \"New Yorker\" covers called \"Blown Covers\", made up of cover sketches and covers that were deemed too risqué for the magazine.\n\nFrom their SoHo loft ten blocks away, on September 11, 2001, Mouly and Spiegelman witnessed the first plane of the terrorist attacks crash into the North Tower of the World Trade Center. Four blocks from the towers, daughter Nadja attended Stuyvesant High School. After collecting her, and son Dashiell from the United Nations International School further away, they returned home to telephone messages urging Mouly to get to the \"New Yorker\" offices to get to work on a 9-11-themed cover. Mouly put together a cover in two black inks of different density—a black cover overlaid with a black silhouette of the two towers. Mouly gave credit for the cover to Spiegelman, who had suggested the silhouette to Mouly's idea of an all-black cover.\n\nAfter becoming parents, Mouly and Spiegelman realized how difficult it was at the end of the 20th century to find comics in English appropriate for children. In 2000 Mouly responded with the Raw Junior imprint, beginning with the anthology series \"Little Lit\", with a roster of cartoonists from \"Raw\", as well as children's book artists and writers such as Maurice Sendak, Lemony Snicket, and Barbara McClintock. Mouly researched the role comics could play in promoting literacy in young children, and encouraged publishers to publish comics for children. Disappointed by publishers' lack of response, from 2008 she self-published a line of easy readers called Toon Books, by artists such as Spiegelman, Renée French, and Rutu Modan, and promotes the books to teachers and librarians for their educational value. The imprint provides support materials for teachers tied into the Common Core State Standards Initiative. In 2014 Toon Books launched an imprint called Toon Graphics aimed at readers eight and up.\n\nMouly has had a deep impact on the publishing practices of the comics world, though her name is not well known due to the behind-the-scenes nature of her work and the prominence of her Pulitzer Prize-winning husband. To Jeet Heer, sexism has also played a role in minimizing the acknowledgement she receives. In 2013, Drawn and Quarterly associate publisher Peggy Burns called Mouly \"one of the most influential people in comics for 30 years\". In 2011, the French government recognized Mouly in 2011 as a Knight of the Legion of Honour, as her father had been, and the Society of Illustrators bestowed on her the Richard Gangel Art Director Award. At the ninth Carle Honors Awards in 2014 the Eric Carle Museum of Picture Book Art granted Mouly the Bridge award for promoting children's literature. Comics critic and historian Jeet Heer published a biographer of Mouly in 2013 titled \"In Love with Art: Françoise Mouly's Adventures in Comics with Art Spiegelman\". Mouly's daughter Nadja interviewed her and her Mouly's mother Josée for the memoir \"I'm Supposed to Protect You from All This\". In 2015, Mouly was the recipient of Smithsonian Magazine's American Ingenuity Award for Education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2495391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2495391", "title": "Goldilocks and the Three Bears", "text": "Goldilocks and the Three Bears\n\n\"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\" (originally titled \"The Story of the Three Bears\") is a 19th-century fairy tale of which three versions exist. The original version of the tale tells of a badly-behaved old woman who enters the forest home of three bachelor bears whilst they are away. She sits in their chairs, eats some of their porridge, and sleeps in one of their beds. When the bears return and discover her, she wakes up, jumps out of the window, and is never seen again. The second version replaced the old woman with a little girl named Goldilocks, and the third and by far most well-known version replaced the original bear trio with Papa Bear, Mama Bear and Baby Bear.\n\nWhat was originally a frightening oral tale became a cozy family story with only a hint of menace. The story has elicited various interpretations and has been adapted to film, opera, and other media. \"Goldilocks and the Three Bears\" is one of the most popular fairy tales in the English language.\n\nIn Southey's tale, three anthropomorphic bears – \"a little, small, wee bear, a middle-sized bear, and a great, huge bear\" – live together in a house in the woods. Southey describes them as very good-natured, trusting, harmless, tidy, and hospitable. Each of these \"bachelor\" bears has his own porridge bowl, chair, and bed. One day they make porridge for breakfast, but it's too hot to eat, so they take a walk in the woods while their porridge cools. An old woman approaches the bears' house. As she has been sent out by her family, she is a disgrace to them. She is impudent, bad, foul-mouthed, ugly, dirty, and a vagrant deserving of a stint in the House of Correction. She looks through a window, peeps through the keyhole, and lifts the latch. Assured that no one is home, she walks in. The old woman eats the Wee Bear's porridge, then settles into his chair and breaks it. Prowling about, she finds the bears' beds and falls asleep in Wee Bear's bed. The dark end of the tale is reached when the bears return. Wee Bear finds his empty bowl, his broken chair, and the old woman sleeping in his bed and cries, \"Somebody has been lying in my bed, and here she is!\" The old woman wakes, jumps out the window and is never seen again.\n\nThe story was first recorded in narrative form by British writer and poet Robert Southey, and first published anonymously as \"The Story of the Three Bears\" in 1837 in a volume of his writings called \"The Doctor\". The same year Southey's tale was published, the story was versified by George Nicol, who acknowledged the anonymous author of \"The Doctor\" as \"the great, original concocter\" of the tale. Southey was delighted with Nicol's effort to bring more exposure to the tale, concerned children might overlook it in \"The Doctor\". Nicol's version was illustrated with engravings by B. Hart (after \"C.J.\"), and was reissued in 1848 with Southey identified as the story's author.\n\nThe story of the three bears was in circulation before the publication of Southey's tale. In 1813, for example, Southey was telling the story to friends, and in 1831 Eleanor Mure fashioned a handmade booklet about the three bears and the old woman for her nephew Horace Broke's birthday. Southey and Mure differ in details. Southey's bears have porridge, but Mure's have milk; Southey's old woman has no motive for entering the house, but Mure's old woman is piqued when her courtesy visit is rebuffed; Southey's old woman runs away when discovered, but Mure's old woman is impaled on the steeple of St Paul's Cathedral.\n\nFolklorists Iona and Peter Opie point out in \"The Classic Fairy Tales\" (1999) that the tale has a \"partial analogue\" in \"Snow White\": the lost princess enters the dwarfs' house, tastes their food, and falls asleep in one of their beds. In a manner similar to the three bears, the dwarfs cry, \"Someone's been sitting in my chair!\", \"Someone's been eating off my plate!\", and \"Someone's been sleeping in my bed!\" The Opies also point to similarities in a Norwegian tale about a princess who takes refuge in a cave inhabited by three Russian princes dressed in bearskins. She eats their food and hides under a bed.\n\nIn 1865, Charles Dickens referenced a similar tale in \"Our Mutual Friend\", but in that story the house belongs to hobgoblins rather than bears. Dickens' reference however suggests a yet-to-be-discovered analogue or source. Hunting rituals and ceremonies have been suggested and dismissed as possible origins.\n\nIn 1894, \"Scrapefoot\", a tale with a fox as antagonist that bears striking similarities to Southey's story, was uncovered by the folklorist Joseph Jacobs and may predate Southey's version in the oral tradition. Some sources state that it was illustrator John D. Batten who in 1894 reported a variant of the tale at least 40 years old. In this version, the three bears live in a castle in the woods and are visited by a fox called Scrapefoot who drinks their milk, sits in their chairs, and rests in their beds. This version belongs to the early Fox and Bear tale-cycle. Southey possibly heard \"Scrapefoot\", and confused its \"vixen\" with a synonym for an unpleasant malicious old woman. Some maintain however that the story as well as the old woman originated with Southey.\n\nSouthey most likely learned the tale as a child from his uncle William Tyler. Uncle Tyler may have told a version with a vixen (female fox) as the intruder, and then Southey may have later confused \"vixen\" with another common meaning of \"a crafty old woman\". P. M. Zall writes in \"The Gothic Voice of Father Bear\" (1974) that \"it was no trick for Southey, a consummate technician, to recreate the improvisational tone of an Uncle William through rhythmical reiteration, artful alliteration ('they walked into the woods, while'), even bardic interpolation ('She could not have been a good, honest Old Woman')\". Ultimately, it is uncertain where Southey or his uncle learned the tale.\n\nTwelve years after the publication of Southey's tale, Joseph Cundall transformed the antagonist from an ugly old woman to a pretty little girl in his \"Treasury of Pleasure Books for Young Children\". He explained his reasons for doing so in a dedicatory letter to his children, dated November 1849, which was inserted at the beginning of the book:\nOnce the little girl entered the tale, she remained – suggesting children prefer an attractive child in the story rather than an ugly old woman. The juvenile antagonist saw a succession of names: Silver Hair in the pantomime \"Harlequin and The Three Bears; or, Little Silver Hair and the Fairies\" by J. B. Buckstone (1853); Silver-Locks in \"Aunt Mavor's Nursery Tales\" (1858); Silverhair in George MacDonald's \"The Golden Key\" (1867); Golden Hair in \"Aunt Friendly's Nursery Book\" (ca. 1868); Silver-Hair and Goldenlocks at various times; Little Golden-Hair (1889); and finally Goldilocks in \"Old Nursery Stories and Rhymes\" (1904). Tatar credits Flora Annie Steel with naming the child (1918).\n\nGoldilocks's fate varies in the many retellings: in some versions, she runs into the forest, in some she is almost eaten by the bears but her mother rescues her, in some she vows to be a good child, and in some she returns home. Whatever her fate, Goldilocks fares better than Southey's vagrant old woman who, in his opinion, deserved a stint in the House of Correction, and far better than Miss Mure's old woman who is impaled upon a steeple in St Paul's church-yard.\n\nSouthey's all-male ursine trio has not been left untouched over the years. The group was re-cast as Papa, Mama, and Baby Bear, but the date of this change is disputed. Tatar indicates it occurred by 1852, while Katherine Briggs suggests the event occurred in 1878 with \"Mother Goose's Fairy Tales\" published by Routledge. With the publication of the tale by \"Aunt Fanny\" in 1852, the bears became a family in the \"illustrations\" to the tale but remained three bachelor bears in the text.\n\nIn Dulcken's version of 1858, the two larger bears are brother and sister, and friends to the little bear. This arrangement represents the evolution of the ursine trio from the traditional three male bears to a family of father, mother, and child. In a publication ca. 1860, the bears have become a family at last in both text and illustrations: \"the old papa bear, the mama bear, and the little boy bear\". In a Routledge publication \"c\" 1867, Papa Bear is called Rough Bruin, Mama Bear is Mammy Muff, and Baby Bear is called Tiny. Inexplicably, the illustrations depict the three as male bears.\n\nIn publications subsequent to Aunt Fanny's of 1852, Victorian nicety required editors to routinely and silently alter Southey's \"[T]here she sate till the bottom of the chair came out, and down came her's, plump upon the ground\" to read \"and down she came\", omitting any reference to the human bottom. The cumulative effect of the several changes to the tale since its original publication was to transform a fearsome oral tale into a cozy family story with an unrealised hint of menace.\n\nMaria Tatar, in \"The Annotated Classic Fairy Tales\" (2002), notes that Southey's tale is sometimes viewed as a cautionary tale that imparts a lesson about the hazards of wandering off and exploring unknown territory. Like \"The Tale of the Three Little Pigs\", the story uses repetitive formulas to engage the child's attention and to reinforce the point about safety and shelter. Tatar points out that the tale is typically framed today as a discovery of what is \"just right\", but for earlier generations, it was a tale about an intruder who could not control herself when encountering the possessions of others.\n\nIn \"The Uses of Enchantment\" (1976), the child psychologist Bruno Bettelheim describes Goldilocks as \"poor, beautiful, and charming\", and notes that the story does not describe her positively except for her hair. Bettelheim mainly discussed the tale in terms of Goldilocks' struggle to move past Oedipal issues to confront adolescent identity problems.\n\nIn Bettelheim's view, the tale fails to encourage children \"to pursue the hard labor of solving, one at a time, the problems which growing up presents\", and does not end as fairy tales should with the \"promise of future happiness awaiting those who have mastered their Oedipal situation as a child\". He believes the tale is an escapist one that thwarts the child reading it from gaining emotional maturity.\n\nTatar criticises Bettelheim's views: \"[His] reading is perhaps too invested in instrumentalizing fairy tales, that is, in turning them into vehicles that convey messages and set forth behavioral models for the child. While the story may not solve oedipal issues or sibling rivalry as Bettelheim believes \"Cinderella\" does, it suggests the importance of respecting property and the consequences of just 'trying out' things that do not belong to you.\"\n\nElms suggests Bettelheim may have missed the anal aspect of the tale that would make it helpful to the child's personality development. In \"Handbook of Psychobiography\" Elms describes Southey's tale not as one of Bettelheimian post-Oedipal ego development but as one of Freudian pre-Oedipal anality. He believes the story appeals chiefly to preschoolers who are engaged in \"cleanliness training, maintaining environmental and behavioral order, and distress about disruption of order\". His own experience and his observation of others lead him to believe children align themselves with the tidy, organised ursine protagonists rather than the unruly, delinquent human antagonist. In Elms's view, the anality of \"The Story of the Three Bears\" can be traced directly to Robert Southey's fastidious, dirt-obsessed aunt who raised him and passed her obsession to him in a milder form.\n\nThe story makes extensive use of the literary rule of three, featuring three chairs, three bowls of porridge, three beds, and the three title characters who live in the house. There are also three sequences of the bears discovering in turn that someone has been eating from their porridge, sitting in their chairs, and finally, lying in their beds, at which point is the climax of Goldilocks being discovered. This follows three earlier sequences of Goldilocks trying the bowls of porridge, chairs, and beds successively, each time finding the third \"just right\". Author Christopher Booker characterises this as the \"dialectical three\", where \"the first is wrong in one way, the second in another or opposite way, and only the third, in the middle, is just right\". Booker continues: \"This idea that the way forward lies in finding an exact middle path between opposites is of extraordinary importance in storytelling\". This concept has spread across many other disciplines, particularly developmental psychology, biology, economics and engineering where it is called the \"Goldilocks principle\". In planetary astronomy, a planet orbiting its sun at just the right distance for liquid water to exist on its surface, neither too hot nor too cold, is referred to as being in the 'Goldilocks Zone'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25885418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25885418", "title": "Harry Winston, Inc.", "text": "Harry Winston, Inc.\n\nHarry Winston, Inc. is an American luxury jeweler and producer of Swiss timepieces. Named after its founder, the jeweler Harry Winston, the company has its headquarters in New York City.\n\nHarry Winston is a wholly owned subsidiary of The Swatch Group, which acquired it from the Toronto based Harry Winston Diamond Corporation in January 2013.\n\nHarry Winston opened its first store in 1932.\n\nHarry Winston was the first jeweler to loan diamonds to an actress for the Academy Awards, in 1943; after dressing Best Actress nominee Jennifer Jones in his signature diamonds, Winston became popular with Hollywood celebrities.\n\nAfter the death of the company's founder, Harry Winston, the company went to his two sons, Ronald and Bruce, who then entered into a decade-long battle over the control of the company. In 2000, Ronald along with new business partner, Fenway Partners, bought Bruce out from the company for $54.1 million.\n\nIn 2010–2011, the company's sales were €246 million in total sales and €36 million in watches. The company also got a new CEO, Frederic de Narp, formerly of the Cartier North America. He succeeded Tom O'Neill.\n\nOn January14, 2013, Harry Winston, Inc announced that it has entered into an agreement to sell its luxury brand diamond jewelry and timepiece division, Harry Winston Inc., to The Swatch Group Ltd. The transaction included the brand and all the activities related to jewelry and watches, including the 535 employees worldwide and the production company in Geneva (Switzerland).\n\nThe company bought the flawless blue diamond The Winston Blue on 15May 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "31666354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31666354", "title": "Highest Duty: My Search for What Really Matters", "text": "Highest Duty: My Search for What Really Matters\n\nHighest Duty: My Search for What Really Matters is a memoir written by Chesley Sullenberger and Jeffrey Zaslow (1958–2012) describing the events of US Airways Flight 1549. The \"New York Times\" bestselling autobiography of Capt. Chesley “Sully” Sullenberger—the pilot who landed a crippled airplane in New York's Hudson River, saving the lives of the 155 passengers—discusses leadership, responsibility, and service, along with his life story.\n\nClint Eastwood directed a 2016 film adaptation that received positive reviews from critics.\n"}
{"id": "8377732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8377732", "title": "International Association of Women in Radio and Television", "text": "International Association of Women in Radio and Television\n\nThe International Association of Women in Radio and Television (IAWRT) is a women's organization involved in the broadcasting industry. More\nThe organisation of professional women working in, or educating about, electronic and allied media, has a mission to strengthen initiatives which ensure women’s views and values are integral to media programming and to advance the impact of women in media.\n\nIAWRT has consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)\n\nIAWRT was founded in 1949 and held the first conference of its own in 1951.\n\nOne of the founders of the organization, Willemijn Posthumus-van der Goot, left an extensive collection of papers from its early years, which are housed in the International Archives for the Women's Movement (), located within the Atria Institute, a major women's archive based in Amsterdam.\n\nDuring the 1950s through 1980s, IAWRT was a friendship organization between women journalists on either side of the Iron Curtain, intended to promote peace. At first, only one member from each country was permitted to join. As times changed, IAWRT became more of a networking organization for media women, \n\nAs IAWRT continued to evolve it included female digital journalists and media academics, and IAWRT began implementing media projects in various parts of the global south, supported by FOKUS in Norway. It has run projects and reported on gender representation on the media and released a free safety handbook for women journalists. As well it has taken an increasing participatory role in the annual NGO-CSW and CSW held annually around and in UN headquarters in New York, USA. IT and Gender Justice solutions to cyber violence were among the 2018 events which IAWRT participated in.\n\nThe organisation today has 14 chapters across the world and continues to organise regional and international conferences, film festivals, workshops and training for the professional development of its members, including safety training. https://www.iawrt.org/events\nThe 2016 regional conference was in Johannesburg South Africa, the 2017 biennial conference took place in Quezon City, the Philippines, the 2018 regional conference is in Entebbe, Uganda.\n\nThe President for 2017-19 is Violet Gonda \n\nThe United Nations main representative is Sheila Katzman of the US, backed by Rebecca Myles and Linnea Rae, the youth representative.\n\n"}
{"id": "48258882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48258882", "title": "Last Judgement (Lochner)", "text": "Last Judgement (Lochner)\n\nLast Judgement (German: Weltgericht) is a c. 1435 tempera on oak polyptych by the German artist Stefan Lochner, probably commissioned for the council chamber of City Hall of Cologne, but now broken apart. Today the outer wings, which formed a sixfold partition when extended, have been sawed off into twelve individual pictures, most of which are still extant but held in separate collections, mostly in Cologne, Munich and Frankfurt. The interior wings included the \"Martyrdom of the Apostles\", the exterior panels comprised in part of the \"Saint Anthony Abbot\", \"Mary Magdalene and a Donor\", \"Saints Catherine, Hubert, Quirinus of Neuss, and a Donor\", and \"Pope Cornelius\". Its depiction of the Last Judgment follows many of the conventions of contemporary doom paintings, but Lochner introduces important innovations, especially in his rendering of the angel's black and flowing clothes.\n\nThe panel is first recorded in 1764, in an inventory of the Parish Church of St Lawrence, Cologne, and is now in the Wallraf-Richartz-Museum, Cologne, since it was bequeathed in 1824.\n\nThe painting is divided into an upper and lower register. The upper half is dominated by the three large forms of Jesus, Mary and St. John. Jesus is placed in the center of the upper half of the panel, sitting on a double rainbow which emits beams, with his hand held outwards. Mary and John kneel at either side of him in poses of prayer as they beg for salvation for the souls beneath. Jesus' right hand is raised in the act of blessing the dead who are to be admitted to the Kingdom of Heaven, his left hand is lowered as he condemns the sinners to eternal punishment. He is dressed in a red robe decorated with pearls. His robe is open to reveal the nails holes in his hands and the wound to his lower chest sustained during his crucifixion. His looks down toward the saved to his right. A large group of angels hover at either side of him, some hold the arma Christi - the attributes of the Passion of Christ. The two angels by his feet play long trumpets, signaling judgement.\n\nThe saints domination of the panel is achieved both through their relative size compared to angels and the mortals below (as is usual for paintings of the \"Last Judgement\"), but also according to Weiss, through the \"impact of their gestures and the massive curves of their garments\". They are dressed in bright and vivid clothes, Jesus' robe is ruby red, St. John's is emerald, Mary's is amethyst coloured.\n\nThe lower half of the panel shows a large body of mortals and demons. The dead rise from their graves, and depending on the judgement of Christ, are either received into heaven or banished into hell. As is traditional, the saved are accompanied by angels as they move towards (from the viewer's perspective) the left hand side of the picture. The damned, who occupy two thirds of the lower half of the panel, are scuttled and tormented by demons towards the right hand side. In this work, the saved are finally greeted by St. Peter as they enter a heavenly city, while the lost are driven towards the blazing fires of hell. The faces and expressions of the damned are full of dread and physical pain. Some of the devils drag the condemned using a chain, in a passage in the lower right, four demons drag souls towards a pit where other devils wait at a raging fire. The demons gnash their teeth.\nTechnical examination reveals numerous and detailed underdrawings, none of which deviate significantly from the final composition. Most of these sketches focus on the three saint's clothes, which are laid out using cross-hatching of various intensity. The faces of the saints are rarely described, with their eyes indicted merely by poorly defined circles. The painting is in poor condition, and has suffered heavy discoloration. The background was originally blue but is now black; its main pigment was azurite, which over the centuries has darkened considerably. Some of the original patterns of the figures clothes are now barely discernible, but can be detected through x-ray.\nBoth its attribution and dating have proved difficult and it was long thought to be by a workshop member, pupil or follower of Lochner. The debate arose in particular because the panel is so different in composition and mood to other known works by Lochner, which in contrast to the dramatic visions contained in this panel, are known for their late Gothic serenity and soft colourisation.\nIt is believed to originate from early in his career, as in places it does not, according to art critic Emmy Wellesz, \"attain the perfect harmony of line, the subtle relationship of the component parts within the total structure, which we admire in Lochner's mature work\". Mindful of similar differences, other art historians have argued that it should be placed at the end of his career, when he was trying to break from his usual conventions. Analysis of the patterns of the tree rings dates the earliest of its three boards to 1406, which accounting for seasoning and maturing gives an earliest date of completion of c 1425. However, it is considered one of the most important paintings in his oeuvre, critics cite its \"dramatic excitement\" and the study of Gothic architecture in the ruined castle.\n\n"}
{"id": "14984069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14984069", "title": "Lath art", "text": "Lath art\n\nLath art is a form of woodworking folk art for making rustic pictures out of strips out of old \"lath\" from \"plaster and lath\" walls. Today it is commonly made from lattice, lumber stickers and weathered lobster traps. Beach scenes and rural scenes are the most popular themes. \n\nLath art has a lot in common with marquetry and intarsia. They are all woodworking hobbies to make pictures out of sections of wood, but marquetry and intarsia use the wood grain as a design element, and lath art uses the direction of the lath stick and the colors of the stains as a design element.\n\n"}
{"id": "5381411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5381411", "title": "Lead single", "text": "Lead single\n\nA lead single is usually the first single to be released from a studio album, by a musician or a band, before the album itself is released.\n\nDuring the era of the gramophone record, all music arrived in the marketplace as what is now termed a single, one potential hit song backed by an additional song of generally less commercial appeal on a single ten-inch 78 rpm shellac record. After the launch of the long-playing microgroove record in 1948 and the arrival of the 45 rpm single the following year, singles continued to appear separately from albums into the 1960s. For instance, the early rock and roll market of the 1950s and early 1960s was very much focused on singles rather than albums. Songs such as \"Heartbreak Hotel\", \"Johnny B. Goode\", and \"Tutti Frutti\" only appeared later on album compilations of singles. Even through the 1960s, leading rock artists such as The Beatles, The Beach Boys, Bob Dylan, and The Rolling Stones issued songs such as \"Strawberry Fields Forever\", \"Penny Lane,\" \"Good Vibrations\", \"Positively 4th Street\", and \"Honky Tonk Women\" as singles apart from any contemporary albums.\n\nThis changed in the 1970s as the popular music industry shifted to the album as its main profit center. Singles became advertisements for an album, the lead single conceptually defined as a foretaste of the album to come. On average a lead single will appear about one month before the album's release date. \"Go Your Own Way\" from \"Rumours\", \"Miss You\" from \"Some Girls\", and \"The Girl Is Mine\" from \"Thriller\" all roughly follow this pattern. This has become a common practice through the 21st century for album-oriented recording artists.\n\nLead singles are often a deciding factor for consumers debating purchase of a still unissued album, and the choosing of which track from an album to be issued as the lead single can be crucial to the album's commercial success. The standard rejoinder for record company executives, when presented with an album of dubious commercial potential, is \"I don't hear the single.\"\n\nIn the 2000s, a common trend developed to release a lead single months in advance of the album release date. It has equally become common for a second lead single to be released before the release of the album. For example, Usher issued the lead single \"Love in this Club\" four months prior to the May 29, 2008 release of \"Here I Stand\". The second single \"Love in This Club, Pt. II\" was released one month before the album release date. Another example is Justin Timberlake's 2013 album, The 20/20 Experience, which was released on March 19, 2013. The first single off it is \"Suit & Tie\", released 2 months before the album hit stores. 1 month prior to the release of the album, another lead single called, \"Mirrors\", was released. Katy Perry released \"California Gurls\" as a single on May 7, 2010, and \"Teenage Dream\" on July 23, 2010, leading to the release of the album \"Teenage Dream\" on August 24, 2010.\n\nArtists often choose songs that are more up-tempo as lead singles. Such songs are often catchier and attract attention toward listeners. However, the subsequent lead single might be slower in tempo in order to demonstrate the range of the album. Female vocalists like Mariah Carey and Christina Aguilera often maintain a formula of an up-tempo first lead single with a slow ballad follow-up. For example, two singles were released by Miley Cyrus before her album \"Bangerz\" - an up-tempo track called, \"We Can't Stop\" was released as the first single, and a slow-ballad song, \"Wrecking Ball\" as the second. This was a successful practice of 1980s heavy metal bands. However, not all artists decide to choose their lead single with the up-tempo criteria. Artists may release a lead single that has a message they want to convey to listeners instead of a song with more commercial potential, such as Fall Out Boy who chose to release \"This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race\" over the radio friendly \"Thnks fr th Mmrs\".\n\nJapanese artists such as Ayumi Hamasaki, Namie Amuro and B'z may release four to eight singles prior to their albums in order to achieve record-breaking debut-week sales. The lead singles in Japan are very heavily advertised and promoted, in some cases even more than the album itself. With album sales continuously declining in the United States, record labels often release singles prior to the album's release date to online music retailers including iTunes, ranging in price from $0.99 to $1.29. This trend has become increasingly popular in many markets.\n\nIn the digital era of music, many artists have driven away from the traditional single release and have started releasing lead singles to their upcoming projects without prior notice or promotion. Beyoncé popularized this formula with the release of \"Formation\" in 2016, which served as the lead single to her sixth studio album. The song, accompanied by its music video, was uploaded to Tidal without previous announcement by Beyoncé.\n"}
{"id": "1406322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1406322", "title": "List of garden features", "text": "List of garden features\n\nGarden features are physical elements, both natural and manmade, used in garden design.\n"}
{"id": "38814555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38814555", "title": "Metaparody", "text": "Metaparody\n\nMetaparody is a form of humor or literary technique consisting \"parodying the parody of the original\", sometimes to the degree that the viewer is unclear as to which subtext is genuine and which subtext parodic. The American literary critic Gary Saul Morson has written extensively on the topic:\n"}
{"id": "22571993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22571993", "title": "Miracle of the Slave (Tintoretto)", "text": "Miracle of the Slave (Tintoretto)\n\nThe Miracle of the Slave (also known as The Miracle of St. Mark, 1548) is a painting by the Italian Renaissance artist Jacopo Tintoretto. Currently housed in the Gallerie dell'Accademia in Venice, northern Italy, it was originally commissioned for the Scuola Grande di San Marco, a confraternity in the city.\n\nIt portrays an episode of the life of Saint Mark, patron saint of Venice, taken from Jacopo da Varazze's \"Golden Legend\". The scene shows, in the upper part, the saint intervening to make invulnerable a slave about to be martyred for his veneration of another saint's relics. All the figures are inscribed into an architectonic scenario.\n\nDifferent influences on Tintoretto's art can be seen in the picture: while the anatomies are Michelangelo-like, the vivid and intense colors are typical of the Venetian School.\n\n"}
{"id": "2781904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2781904", "title": "Moscow Art Theatre", "text": "Moscow Art Theatre\n\nThe Moscow Art Theatre (or MAT; , \"Moskovskiy Hudojestvenny Akademicheskiy Teatr\" (МHАТ)) is a theatre company in Moscow. It was founded in 1898 by the seminal Russian theatre practitioner Konstantin Stanislavski, together with the playwright and director Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko. It was conceived as a venue for naturalistic theatre, in contrast to the melodramas that were Russia's dominant form of theatre at the time. The theatre, the first to regularly put on shows implementing Stanislavski's system, proved hugely influential in the acting world and in the development of modern American theatre and drama.\n\nAt the end of the 19th-century, Stanislavski and Nemirovich-Danchenko both wanted to reform Russian theatre to high-quality art that was available to the general public. They set about creating a private theatre over which they had total control (as opposed to trying to reform the government operated Maly Theatre, a move which would have given them far less artistic freedom). On 22 June 1897, the two men met for the first time at the Slavyanski Bazar for a lunch that started at 2 PM and did not end until 8 AM the next morning. While Stanislavski’s approach to theatre revolved around the acting process, Nemirovich was far more concerned with the literary, intellectual angle.\n\nTheir differences proved to be complementary, and they agreed to initially divide power over the theatre, with Nemirovich in charge of the literary decisions and Stanislavski in charge of all production decisions. Stanislavski interviewed all his actors, making sure they were hard working and devoted as well as talented. He made them live together in common housing for months at a time to foster community and trust, which he believed would raise the quality of their performances. Stanislavski's system, in which he trained actors via the acting studios he founded as part of the theatre, became central to every production the theatre put on. The system played a huge influence in the development of method acting.\n\nStanislavski and Danchenko’s initial goal of having an “open theatre,” one that anyone could afford to attend, was quickly destroyed when they could neither obtain adequate funding from private investors, nor from the Moscow City Council.\n\nThe Theatre's first season included works by Aleksey Tolstoy (\"Tsar Fyodor Ioannovich\"), Henrik Ibsen, and William Shakespeare, but it wasn’t until it staged Anton Chekhov's four major works, beginning with its production of \"The Seagull\" in 1898, with Stanislavski in the role of Trigorin, that the theatre achieved fame. This production was so successful that the theatre adopted the seagull as its emblem.\n\nAfter Chekhov’s death in 1904, the theatre experienced a huge changeover; Chekhov had envisioned fellow playwright and friend Maxim Gorki as his successor as the Theatre’s leading dramatist, but Nemirovich and Stanislavski’s reaction to his play \"Summerfolk\" was unenthusiastic, causing Gorki to leave. He took with him Savva Morozov, one of the theatre’s main investors at the time.\n\nNow in dire straits, the theatre decided to accept invitations to go on an international tour in 1906, which started in Berlin and included Dresden, Frankfurt, Prague, and Vienna. The tour was a huge success, gaining the theatre international acclaim. However, the sudden change in fortune did not completely quell the company's internal strife; Stanislavski appointed friends to the theatre’s management without consulting Nemirovich and opened studios attached to the theatre where he began to implement his acting system, cementing Nemirovich’s fears that the theatre was becoming a mere extension of Stanislavski’s own ideas and work. The tension between the two led Stanislavski to abandon his duties as a board member and to relinquish all his power over policy decisions.\n\nThe theatre continued to thrive after the October Revolution of 1917 and was one of the foremost state-supported theatres of the Soviet Union, with an extensive repertoire of leading Russian and Western playwrights. Although several revolutionary groups saw it as an irrelevant marker of pre-revolutionary culture, the theatre was initially granted support by Vladimir Lenin, a frequent patron of the Art Theatre himself. Mikhail Bulgakov wrote several plays for the MAT and satirised the organisation mercilessly in his \"Theatrical Novel\". Isaac Babel's \"Sunset\" was also performed there during the 1920s. A significant number of Moscow Art Theatre's actors were awarded the prestigious title of People's Artist of the USSR. Many actors became nationally known and admired thanks to their film roles. However, the Civil War saw many of the theatre’s actors being cut off from Moscow, and the support it received from the government diminished under Lenin’s New Economic Policy. The subsidies it had come to rely on were withdrawn and the theatre was forced to survive on its own profits. By 1923, the MAT was in $25,000 debt.\n\nThe theatre experienced further blows through the end of the 1930s. Stanislavski's heart attack onstage during a production of \"Three Sisters\" in 1928 led to his almost complete withdrawal from the theatre, while the Stalinist climate began to suppress artistic expression and controlled more and more what could be performed. A \"red director\" was appointed to the management by the government to ensure that the MAT’s activities were not counter-revolutionary and that they served the Communist cause. As Russia began a period of rapid industrialization, so too was the MAT encouraged to increase production at the expense of quality, with more and more hastily produced plays going up each season. Plays had to be officially approved, and the Theatre’s artistic integrity started to decline.\n\nThe theatre was officially renamed The Gorky Moscow Art Theatre in 1932. Desperate not to lose support, Stanislavski tried to appease Stalin by accepting his political limitations on what could be performed while retaining his devotion to naturalistic theatre. As a result, the mid-20th century incarnation of the Moscow Art Theatre took a stylistic turn towards Socialist Realism, which would affect its productions for decades.\n\nIt was not until autumn of 1970 that Oleg Yefremov, an actor, producer, and former student of the Moscow Art Theatre Studios who wanted Russia to once again be a major contender in the theatre world, took over control of the theatre and began to reform it. By the time he arrived to save it, the company was made up of only 150 actors, many of whom were out of practice. Yefremov began to reinstate Stanislavski’s traditions, including emphasizing the importance of the studio and of the system, as well as interviewing every single candidate with special emphasis and attention placed on work ethic.\n\nIn 1987, the theatre split into two troupes: the Chekhov Moscow Art Theatre (artistic director Oleg Yefremov) and the Gorky Moscow Art Theatre (artistic director Tatiana Doronina). Oleg Tabakov was the Chekhov Moscow Art Theatre's artistic director from 2000 until his death in 2018. The Chekhov Moscow Art Theatre is located just off Tverskaya Street, within walking distance of Red Square.\n\nWhat follows is a full chronological list of MAT productions\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: When more than one play is listed on the same line, it means that they were produced and performed together.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1997034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1997034", "title": "Pat Butcher", "text": "Pat Butcher\n\nPat Butcher (also credited with the names Wicks and Evans), is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\". She was played by Pam St. Clement from 12 June 1986, just over a year after the show first aired, until her departure on 1 January 2012. Pat was also portrayed by Emma Cooke in a soap 'bubble' \"Pat and Mo: Ashes to Ashes\", delving into her past with sister-in-law Mo Harris (Laila Morse), which aired in 2004. The character was killed off on 1 January 2012, shortly after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Her funeral was on 13 January 2012. Pat was one of the longest serving characters on the show, being on it for twenty-five years and six months. She returned along with other women from Ian Beale's (Adam Woodyatt) past in a concussion-related dream sequence for a Children in Need special on 14 November 2014. She also made a return as a hallucination for Peggy Mitchell's (Barbara Windsor) death on 17 May 2016.\n\nPat is the youngest of four children. Her sister, Joan, had Down's syndrome, and was sent to a mental institution when Pat was four. Joan married Michael, who also had Down's. Their mother, Lydia, disowned Joan and claimed she had died at age 22.\n\nAfter leaving school at 15, Pat unsuccessfully tried to become a model. She and her best friend, Mo Harris (Laila Morse), entered a beauty contest in Clacton at 16, winning the title of \"Miss Butlins\". There she met Frank Butcher (Mike Reid), who was holidaying with his girlfriend, June Simmonds. Frank was besotted with Pat, and they slept together. Frank was the first of what would be many lovers in Pat's life, and so began a love affair. However, June became pregnant with Frank's child, so Frank married her, breaking Pat's heart. Pat and Frank would meet up from time to time, and on each occasion the affair would be rekindled, but Frank would not leave June. Pat began working for shady club owner Tony Cattani (Vas Constanti), who got her involved in prostitution. This shamed her family, particularly her brother Jimmy (Alex King), and their relationship suffered. When Pat discovered that Mo, now Jimmy's wife, had slept with Tony, she informed her brother; Mo denied it, and Jimmy subsequently disowned Pat. While working as a prostitute, Pat was offered more money to work for up-and-coming gangster Johnny Allen (Billy Murray). Pat then worked as a well-known woman of the underworld for many years.\n\nPat embarked on numerous relationships. She had flings with Den Watts (Leslie Grantham) and Kenny Beale (Michael Attwell)—both restless men, unwilling to settle down with her. Kenny's younger brother Pete (Peter Dean) proved more reliable; he married Pat when he thought she was pregnant by him—a false alarm which his mother Lou (Anna Wing) believed was Pat's ploy to trap her son. While they were together, Pat had two sons, David (Michael French) and Simon (Nick Berry), who Pete believed to be his. Yet Pat could not settle down and embarked on an affair with Brian Wicks (Leslie Schofield). Pete eventually left her and they divorced. Soon after, Pat married Brian and he took on responsibility of her two sons. They left Walford due to David's feud with fellow schoolboy Derek Branning (Terence Beesley; Jamie Foreman) who terrorised the entire family because David got his sister Carol (Lindsey Coulson) pregnant. They moved to Romford and Pat stayed with Brian until 1986, when he started physically abusing her.\n\nPat comes to Walford in June 1986, to tell Pete that he is not Simon's father. Many arguments erupt but Lou steps in to convince a devastated Pete that Simon is his. When Pat starts work as a barmaid in The Queen Victoria pub later that year, she finds that Lou thinks Simon is Kenny's son, following an affair and she's adamant that Pat should keep this secret and not upset her close-knit family but Pete's sister Pauline Fowler (Wendy Richard) overhears and tells Pete everything.\n\nPat lives up to her promiscuous reputation and, with encouragement from Mehmet Osman (Haluk Bilginer), ends the year, prostituting herself. Animosity between Pat and Pete continues. When Pat is assaulted in February 1987 — left unconscious and close to death in the middle of the Square — Pete is prime suspect in the police investigation. He is later cleared when the real culprit, the Walford Attacker, is caught.\n\nThe arrival of Kenny in 1988 brings the question of Simon's parentage to the fore once again. Pat tells Simon and the Beale brothers that she does not know who is the father, adding further confusion. She also says that Den is a possibility but later rules Den out and demands that he sleep with her, or she will tell people that he is the father. That July, a dying Lou pleads with Pat to finally tell Simon the truth. Pat reveals that Brian, the man that Simon believed to be his stepfather, is actually his biological father. Following Lou's death, Pat forms a close friendship with her former foe, Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth), Pete's second wife. They find they had a common bond, with the dominance of Lou and Pete in their lives.\n\nFrank comes back into Pat's life in 1987. June has died and he and Pat reunite, taking over tenancy of The Queen Vic public house. Pat struggles as stepmother to Frank's children, particularly Janine Butcher (Rebecca Michael). On 22 June 1989, Pat and Frank marry in Cockney style, driving out of Albert Square in a horse-drawn cart. By the end of the year, the Butchers have moved from The Queen Vic to the B&B across the Square, which Pat runs while Frank opens a used car-lot. Despite family and marital problems, Frank and Pat are happy until 1992 when they begin to struggle financially, forcing them to sell the B&B. Pat tries to turn their fortunes around by starting a cab firm, PatCabs. However, disaster strikes on Christmas Eve that year, when Pat — doing a short run for a regular customer — hits a teenage girl who later dies from her injuries. She struggles to cope with the guilt, particularly when confronted by the girl's mother. When breathalysed, she is found to be just over the limit. When Pat appears in court several months later, she is given a six-month prison sentence. Pat returns in the autumn but by then the Butchers are in financial ruin. In desperation, Frank pays Phil Mitchell (Steve McFadden) to torch the car-lot in an insurance scam. When this goes wrong and a homeless boy dies, Frank has a breakdown and in April 1994, he abandons Pat and his children, leaving Pat destitute and heartbroken. Eventually, Frank's daughter Diane Butcher (Sophie Lawrence) brings news that Frank is alive, so Pat begins getting on with her life.\n\nCar-dealer Roy Evans (Tony Caunter) then arrives in the Square and is attracted to Pat but early attempts to woo her get him nothing but refusals. Pat later softens and goes on a cruise with him, although she makes it clear that sex is not on offer. Her carnal abstinence is a blessing for Roy as he later admits he is impotent and can offer nothing more than platonic love. Pat is relieved to discover that, for once, a man wants something from her other than sex. In November 1995, Roy moves in with Pat, but on Christmas Day, Frank returns. Pat finds it hard to contain her rage and emotion when she sees her estranged husband, but despite him stirring up old feelings, she chooses to stay with Roy and they marry in 1996. Pat and Roy weather money problems, Roy's ill-health and depression, brought on by his jealousy of Pat and Frank's shared past, which almost makes him commit suicide in 1999. Pat finally convinces Roy that it was him she wants although she finds it hard to let go of Frank completely. Frank goes on to marry Peggy Mitchell (Barbara Windsor), but he begins to have second thoughts in 2000 after realising that he still loves Pat.\n\nWhile the Butchers and Evanses are holidaying in Spain, Frank seduces Pat. Pat tries to end the affair but when Frank turns up on her doorstep naked (apart from a comedy bow-tie), she realizes that she had never stopped loving him either. Their affair continues and they eventually decide to elope to Manchester. They are due to depart on Guy Fawkes Night in November 2000, but Pat has second thoughts. But it's too late — Peggy has already found Frank's farewell letter and shames the cheating duo by reading it to the entire pub before slapping Frank and Pat. Peggy throws Frank out and he leaves Walford alone. Roy is initially willing to forgive Pat and explains that certain things have got to change but his son, Barry Evans (Shaun Williamson), alerts him to a suitcase containing massage oils, fishnet stockings, and a red Basque that Pat was planning to take with her. Roy is horrified and throws Pat out, leaving her penniless and homeless. Roy later asks Pat for a divorce and in February 2001, Pat decides to join Simon in New Zealand, but Roy follows her to the airport and tells her that he wants to be with her, despite Barry's objections. Grateful that Roy has given her a second chance, Pat is adamant that she will not mess things up again. In March 2003, however, Roy discovers that Pat knew that Barry's wife, Natalie Evans (Lucy Speed), was having an affair with Frank's son, Ricky Butcher (Sid Owen). Roy believes that Pat has again chosen to support Frank's offspring over his own and the stress causes Roy's second and fatal heart attack. Roy dies intestate, leaving Pat bereft and homeless, as Barry — beneficiary of Roy's estate — evicts her, despite Pat's efforts to support Barry and help rebuild his life after the double blow of his marriage break-up and the death of his father.\n\nPat moves into a bedsit. Janine (now played by Charlie Brooks) marries Barry and plans to con him out of all of his money and possessions. The day after the wedding, Janine admits everything and pushes Barry down a cliff to his death. She later brags about it to a disgusted Pat and starts to bully Laura Beale (Hannah Waterman), and when Laura accidentally falls down the stairs and dies, Janine is arrested on suspicion of murder. Pat, Janine's alibi, lies to the police so Janine is implicated as revenge for Barry's death. Pat is given a job at the bookies by gangster Andy Hunter (Michael Higgs) in 2004. They develop a rapport and when Andy is murdered in 2005, Pat is stunned to discover that he has left her his house in his will. Pat is summoned as a witness for the prosecution at Janine's trial in December 2005, where she meets Frank again. Once again, they sleep together but she soon realizes that his primary motive is to convince her to alter her testimony at Janine's trial. Pat refuses, but Frank assures her that he will always love her.\n\nIn February 2006, Pat, missing male company, begins flirting with Patrick Trueman (Rudolph Walker), who is married but unable to resist the chance at a casual fling with Pat. Stacey Slater (Lacey Turner) sees them together and tells Patrick's wife, Yolande (Angela Wynter), which ends the affair and ignites a feud between Pat and Yolande.\n\nIn August 2007, Pat discovers her mother lied about the date of her sister Joan's death. She and a kind stranger, Len Harker (Christopher Ellison), break into Joan's care home and learn that Joan died only a few years earlier after marrying a man with Down's syndrome. Pat is touched to discover that Joan often spoke of how much she loved her. In March 2008, Pat announces she is leaving Walford for Spain but gets news that Frank has died of cancer. She is devastated and despite initial feuding, she and Peggy support each other through Frank's funeral. Pat opts to remain in Walford when her granddaughter Bianca Jackson (Patsy Palmer) turns to her for help soon after, moving in with her four children. Having reconciled with one grandchild, Pat severs her bond with another when she discovers Steven Beale (Aaron Sidwell) is hiding his runaway sister, Lucy Beale (Melissa Suffield). Pat threatens to tell Lucy's father, Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), the truth and is hit by Roxy Mitchell's (Rita Simons) car whilst trying to apprehend Steven. She spends time in hospital, where Steven attempts to smother her before she can tell Ian. His plan fails, and Lucy returns to Ian.\n\nPat suffers a heart attack in January 2010 amidst increasing animosity with Janine. It is revealed that she has an underlying condition and needs a pacemaker but refuses to have the operation. Janine persuades Pat to have the pacemaker fitted and she makes a full recovery. Disgusted with the litter in Albert Square, Peggy and Pat both decide to run for council. They are interviewed by journalist Harvey Freeman (Martin Jarvis) but eventually they both pull out of the election. Harvey secretly woos them both, causing various rows between the women when they find out. They both finally unite against Harvey and humiliate him in punishment. Pat and Peggy's friendship strengthens, so Pat is hurt when Peggy leaves Walford without saying goodbye, upset to lose her best friend. When Pat discovers that Janine stabbed herself in order to frame Stacey after making the discovery that she killed Archie Mitchell (Larry Lamb), she disowns Janine and goes to New Zealand to visit Simon. She returns in April to find that Bianca is in prison and Whitney is missing, although she is relieved when Whitney returns home shortly after.\n\nWhen Pat discovers that Janine's grandmother, Lydia Simmonds (Margaret Tyzack; Heather Chasen), is staying with Janine, she believes that Janine is only interested in Lydia's inheritance and Janine jokingly admits this to Pat, although a close bond soon forms between Janine and Lydia. When Lydia dies in the night, Pat comforts Janine but later turns on her, believing that she killed Lydia to get her money, despite the fact Janine had already seen the will and knew that Lydia was donating her money to charity. When the police take Janine in for questioning over Lydia's death, Janine believes Pat phoned them, although it is later revealed that it was Ryan. Pat is still adamant that Janine murdered Lydia, which causes an emotional argument. When it is discovered that Lydia has changed her will and leaves her whole estate to Janine, Pat persuades Lydia's son Norman (George Layton) to contest the will. He initially agrees, but after Janine agrees to share the money with Ricky, Pat convinces him to change his mind. Although Norman likes Pat and wants to see her again, Pat is oblivious to this.\n\nWhen Pat discovers that her son Simon is about to lose his home in New Zealand, she fails to get a loan to help him because of her age. Norman offers to help and organises a loan for her. After speaking to her great-grandson Liam Butcher (James Forde), Pat decides she likes Norman, they kiss, and she asks him to stay. The next day Norman tells Patrick that he regularly earns commission for organising loans for people. Patrick then warns Pat about this, and once Pat finds out that the terms of the loan mean if she misses a payment she could lose her house, she rejects Norman, tells him to leave, and says she never wants to see him again. Derek arrives in Walford and recognises Pat. She runs away, but he chases her and forces his way into her home. Pat is fearful of Derek, and he taunts her, asking Pat if she is still a prostitute. Derek also tells her to tell David that he has not forgotten about their fight. When Roxy asks Pat about Derek's past, Pat confirms that he is dangerous. Pat struggles to keep up the loan repayments on her house, and counts on Ricky's bonus money to cover the debt. When Ricky returns from Dubai, he reveals that he has lost all his money, so Pat explains that they will lose the house by the end of the week if a payment is not made. A desperate Pat turns to Janine and asks for money. Janine gives her £50,000 without hesitation, but insists on Pat using the house as collateral, although this does not thaw the animosity between the pair. When Janine's boyfriend Michael Moon (Steve John Shepherd) spots Derek and Liam together, he forms an allegiance with Pat over their hatred of him and they proceed to call his probation officer to check up on him, infuriating Derek. He later confronts Pat, angrily threatening her. Shortly after, Patrick drops into Pat's and finds her collapsed on her kitchen floor. Pat is admitted to hospital having suffered a pulmonary embolus and the doctors run some tests but she discharges herself secretly, telling Ricky she has been allowed to go. Shortly after, Janine goes to see Pat, telling her she is moving the repayment deadline to the following day after an argument with Bianca. Pat rings Simon to find out whether he can pay her the money but is shocked when he tells her his brother David slept with his wife. As her stress increases, Pat's chest pains continue and Patrick persuades her to return to the hospital. There, she is diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, which has metastasised to her lungs, bones and abdomen. Pat refuses all further palliative treatment and returns to Walford to be with her loved ones, sharing one last drink with her family and friends in The Queen Vic.\n\nOn New Year's Day 2012, Pat's health rapidly deteriorates and she is visited by old friends including Ian and Dot Branning (June Brown). Janine arrives to evict the family after Pat is unable to pay all her debts back but soon realises that Pat is not faking her illness and is devastated. Visiting her sick stepmother, Janine confesses to Pat that she is pregnant and Pat convinces her to keep the baby, before they finally reconcile. Later, David arrives to see Pat but the pair argue and David leaves, David is persuaded to return by Carol. David tells Pat that he is sorry for the mess he has made of things over the years. David then tells Pat that he forgives her for all the times she let him down when he was a child. Pat tells David that she is scared moments before she dies. Everybody on the Square mourns for Pat the next day, and Norman comes back with a bunch of flowers for her, not knowing that she has already died. Pat's funeral, which is paid for by Janine, takes place and is attended by many Albert Square residents. Simon turns up after the funeral has ended with flowers and lays them down at her grave. In September 2013, Peggy returns and visits Pat's house to say goodbye, leaving a bottle of gin on her doorstep.\n\nIn May 2016, Peggy returns to Walford with terminal cancer that has spread to her brain. As her senses are affected, she hallucinates that Pat is in her home and they reminisce about their shared past. Peggy asks her to never leave her and Pat promises this, as Peggy takes a fatal overdose of her medication.\n\nThe character of Pat was conceived by the creators of \"EastEnders\", Tony Holland and Julia Smith, in 1984. Although not one of the serial's original protagonists, Pat is referred to in the character outline of Pete Beale, who appeared on-screen in \"EastEnders\"' first episode, as written by Smith and Holland in their book, \"EastEnders: The Inside Story\": \"[Pete] married very young to Pat — it turned out to be a total disaster. They were too young, rushing into a difficult life for all the wrong reasons, and truthfully, [Pat] was a vicious shrew...[Pete] divorced [Pat] and married Kathy when he was 24...His two sons by his first marriage are nineteen and twenty and he hardly sees them...\"\n\nPat was first seen on-screen in June 1986, over a year after the show debuted. The character's introduction was the result of a deliberate policy \"to add an extra edge of toughness to the show.\" Prior to this point, Holland and Smith had begun to feel that \"EastEnders\" was starting to get \"a bit soft\". During a meeting with scriptwriters, the programme makers decided to try to recapture some of the soap's \"original grittiness that seemed to be getting lost in its own success\". Thus the character of Pat was introduced to \"add a new hardness to the atmosphere.\"\n\nPat, played by actress Pam St. Clement, was initially introduced on a three-episode trial basis. She was given an extensive backstory, heavily intertwined with various focal characters within the serial, including all of the Beale and Fowler family who mostly disliked her, particularly her ex-husband Pete Beale (Peter Dean), her son Simon Wicks (Nick Berry), and Pete's mother Lou Beale (Anna Wing). In addition, she was an old friend of Angie Watts (Anita Dobson), a former lover of Angie's husband Den (Leslie Grantham) and, as a supposed former resident of Walford, she was known to many of the other regular characters such as Dot Cotton (June Brown) and Ethel Skinner (Gretchen Franklin).\n\nThe character's initial three-episode stint marked the beginning of what has been described as one of the soap's most complicated storylines, the paternity of Simon Wicks. Pat immediately \"threw a spanner in the works\" by telling Pete that he was not Simon's biological father, as she had previously claimed. After causing havoc Pat then disappeared; however, she was reintroduced later in the year, returning as a regular character, barmaid of The Queen Victoria public house. St. Clement had reservations about returning to the soap. In 1995 she told \"The Independent\", \"I couldn't envisage how this character, who creates absolute havoc everywhere she goes and is not at home with herself or with anybody else in the Square, could possibly fit in\". However she was persuaded to continue by producer Julia Smith, who said: \"'We've only seen one layer of the onion skin—the defensiveness—now we'll start to peel away more and get to the vulnerability that lies behind it'.\"\n\nIn 1998, Pat and her friend Peggy develop a feud with each other after Frank had an affair with Peggy. An \"EastEnders\" insider said: \"Viewers will see the lot - tears, screaming and fighting. The romance has brought the studios to a standstill,\" said the insider. \"There are TV screens around Elstree where staff can see what is being filmed and it has literally stopped people in their tracks. For the two days it was being filmed, staff on the lot talked about nothing else. Frank and Peggy are two of the show's strongest, most popular characters and the writers have hit on the idea of bringing Pat, another of the show's big names, in on the plot. Devoting a whole episode to just two characters is a tactic which has proved successful in the past. \"We have used it for Michelle and Lofty and also for Dot Cotton and Lou Beale. St. Clement and Barbara are both first-class actresses and everyone at the BBC feels they will carry the explosive episode off with flying colours.\" The scenes showing the characters' first fight had to be cut in order to be broadcast before the 9pm watershed as they were \"powerful\" and still was one of the \"impressive episodes of all time\". Barbara Windsor told the \"Sunday Mirror\": \"The writer didn't want a namby- pamby cat fight between two silly girls. We were throwing chairs and bottles and the adrenaline was at a high. When I saw the programme I couldn't believe how good it was. Pam and I were really proud.\"\n\nIn an interview with \"TV Buzz\", Barbara Windsor commented on Pat and Peggy's relationship: \"I really loved Pat and Peggy's friendship, but my most memorable scenes involve us slapping each other; and we both really went for it! The fan mail we received would always go up a notch when they had a fight. We'd call each other everything under the sun too. Well, as far as we could go - obviously we couldn't swear. I'd love to have done a late-night episode - you'd have heard proper language then!\" She added: \"My favourite storyline was where Peggy whacked Pat and Frank in The Vic. I stood on my little box - because I'm so tiny - and bang! Pat's earring went flying, then I fell off the box! I did a Norman Wisdom trip. It was very funny.\n\nOn 7 July 2011, it was announced that St. Clement had quit \"EastEnders\". The actress revealed that she wanted to try other things, saying \"I have enjoyed 25 and a half wonderful years in \"EastEnders\" creating the character of Pat but feel it's time to hang up her earrings. Leaving the \"EastEnders\" 'family' will be akin to a bereavement. But I'm looking forward to the other work and life opportunities that I will have the time to pursue.\" Pat will leave later in the year and executive producer Bryan Kirkwood said her departure would be a \"fitting\" storyline. Pat's son David Wicks returned for her departure storyline. Pat was killed off in the special New Year's Day episode. St. Clement said she was pleased for a dramatic exit. She told \"The Sun\": \"They didn't just want me to say ta-ta and get on the No 30 bus because that wouldn't do me justice. They wanted something dramatic, a fitting tribute to the character.\" She said that the loss of Peggy, Pauline and herself would spell the end of the EastEnders \"matriarchs\". She added: \"A trio of people all of the same age leaving does leave a gap. Who is next in the age line? There isn't anyone.\" On 31 December 2011, it was announced that Pat would be getting her own exit theme. \"EastEnders\" music composer Simon May reworked the tune to create \"Pat's Theme\". An \"EastEnders\" insider told \"Digital Spy\": \"It's only right that as we say goodbye to the iconic Pat Evans we pay tribute to such a character with a wonderfully touching special theme tune. As we say farewell to a legend of over 26 years, we welcome in what will be a truly remarkable New Year in E20 by adding the Olympic Park into the opening title sequence.\"\n\nBarbara Windsor who played Peggy Mitchell predicted that Pat would be \"sorely missed\" by fans. Speaking of Pat's exit, Windsor told \"This Morning\": \"Oh, I can't bear it - Pam! And she will be sorely missed - more than I was missed in the show, because she could go to anybody - any family she could go into. I am devastated.\" She definitely wanted to leave, but I don't know if she wanted to be killed off - that's the chance you have to take,\" Windsor continued. \"I was positive that I was going to go up in a load of flames with The Vic - I thought that was going to happen, but of course it didn't. With Pam, I was very, very surprised, because she could always go back. But she's accepted it now and she'll have a new life.\"\n\nSt. Clement stated that she didn't want her character to die, but said her final scenes were \"fantastic\". St. Clement commented: \"Simon Ashdown had this idea for the character, which fitted in with her history in a sense,\" she explained. \"They said, 'This is how we'd like it to happen - we think it's a fitting end and tribute to the character'. And as far as I can say, I read the script and I thought, 'Oh, this is fantastic - it's every actor's dream'. And I have to say, it also challenged me in a way that I hadn't been challenged. It was moving, it was challenging and it was a script that I needed to get my teeth into. The script, the performances, the direction - it all turned out to be a fantastic ensemble piece, if you like… Everybody was pulling in, everybody was doing the most wonderful performances and it was fantastic.\"\n\nSt. Clement said she was \"moved\" by the \"Farewell Pat\" tribute. Speaking on \"Daybreak\", St. Clement explained: \"I wasn't going to watch [the final episode] with anybody - I was going to record it and then watch it in a darkened room somewhere, where I could be terribly critical and jump about saying, 'Stupid woman - why did you play it like that?' But everybody said, 'Oh no, sit down'. I said, 'I don't want to disturb you all' - but I did make myself behave! And I was quite dispassionate, actually. The strange thing is, after I read the script, I was very moved by it. But as soon as I started working on it, I think everybody did start getting quite emotional - but I couldn't. Even about myself leaving - people in the cast would come up and say, 'How do you feel?' and I'd say, 'I can't go there, I can't think about that, because the work's not finished'. The strange thing is, the only thing that moved me was the Farewell Pat programme. Which is strange, but I suppose that was personal in a sense.\" Also, St. Clement explained the experience of filming her final episode. She added: \"It was a great challenge, that script,\" she commented. \"I looked at it and thought, 'Oh, heck, how do I give light and shade to something where somebody is actually dying?' And some of the scenes could have been interpreted as being somewhat similar with Janine and David. So I had to make them different - but I had to make them different within the confines of the illness.\"\n\nIt was later confirmed that \"EastEnders\" would air a special tribute episode to Pat after her funeral episode on 13 January 2012. An \"EastEnders\" insider commented: \"Pat is EastEnders - she was the heart and soul of the show and bosses have pulled out all the stops for her funeral. Not only is the episode extra long, with plenty of nods to the iconic lady, it really is the end of the earring. We are hoping that everyone dons their biggest and tackiest earrings to mark one of the saddest days in the history of Walford.\" Co-star Lindsey Coulson said that Pat's departure was a \"real-loss\". She told \"This Morning\": \"They were really difficult scenes to play, because we didn't want Pam to leave,\" Coulson explained. \"So apart from not wanting to lose the wonderful character of Pat, we were mourning the loss of Pam. \"You don't see everybody all the time [at EastEnders] at all, and sometimes you can go for months without seeing somebody. And most of the time you're on this big wheel and when people leave, you go, 'Oh, that's really sad', but you get back on. But actually Pam is a real loss up there.\"\n\nFormer \"EastEnders\" cast member Martin Kemp said that the decision for Pat to leave was the \"right\" thing to do. He told \"Bang Showbiz\": \"I still watch EastEnders from time to time. I did quite a few scenes with Pam, I remember we spent three or four days locked in a cellar once so we had quite some scenes. She's a great actress, I'm sure she'll go on to other things. I think she's making the right move, it's nice to spread your wings a bit. Although viewers will miss her I don't think anyone is bigger than the show, it doesn't matter who comes or who goes. When I was there I always thought the star of the show was and always will be the pub, The Queen Vic. Everything else is an extra around it.\"\n\nAs of May 2005, the 1992 episode that saw Pat run over a teenage girl is the 11th most watched TV episode in the UK, and the second highest rated episode of \"EastEnders\". It was watched by 24.2 million viewers.\n\nThe character of Pat has been spoofed in the cartoon sketch show \"2DTV\". The impressionist who provides the voice is Jan Ravens. Ravens has not only provided the voice of Pat, she has also acted the part on-screen in several episodes of BBC's \"Big Impression\", which devoted a regular sketch to various \"EastEnders\" characters, and she also played Pat in the other impressionist show \"Dead Ringers\". \"The Impressions Show with Culshaw and Stephenson\" also contains sketches where impressionist Debra Stephenson portrays Pat in situations, often with \"Coronation Street\" character Ken Barlow, played by Jon Culshaw. She is also the frequent target of jokes in \"Harry Hill's TV Burp\", usually alluding to her former prostitution and alleged sexual promiscuity. Comedian Lee Evans had once used Pat as one of his jokes in his latest tour Live at the O2 Arena. In the first episode of Series 3 of \"The Inbetweeners\", Jay gets his ears pierced with large round earrings and is mocked by his friend Simon Cooper, who calls it the \"Pat Butcher look\".\n"}
{"id": "47938702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47938702", "title": "Princeton Maya Vase with God L", "text": "Princeton Maya Vase with God L\n\nThe Princeton Vase is a famous example of Late Classic Maya ceramics in codex style, first published in M.D. Coe's 'The Maya Scribe and His World' (1973), and now a key piece of the Pre-Columbian collection of the Princeton University Art Museum. Originally serving as a drinking vessel for chocolate, it depicts a throne room occupied by an aged deity wearing an owl headdress and by five young women surrounding him. In front of the throne a bound captive is being decapitated by two masked men, a scene that has long been assumed to refer to an episode in the Popol Vuh. As to the object's art-historical importance, it bears comparison to the equally famous Jaguar Baby vase in the New York Metropolitan Museum. \nThe vase, with an overall cream and incidental orange and brown-black slip, as well as traces of post-fire Maya blue pigment, dates to the Late Classic period of Maya civilization (late 7th or early 8th century), and originated in the Nakbé region, Mirador Basin, Petén, Guatemala.Towards the rim of the vase, above the painted scene, formulaic texts consecrate the vessel, specifying its purpose as a drinking vessel for chocolate, and designating its owner, a lord named \"Muwaan K'uk\"'. The vase would have been used in courtly feasts similar to the one depicted. The main surface of the vessel shows a calligraphic painting, executed with graceful, sure lines, of a theatrically composed mythological scene. Subtle visual devices, including one woman tapping the foot of another while her face points to the left, direct the viewer to turn the drinking vessel, allowing for a temporal unfolding as part of the viewing experience.\n\nThe scene's chief figure is known from the Dresden Codex as god L, a deity of trade, shamanism, and warfare. The old, toothless man sits on a throne within a conventional depiction of a palace, with a pier behind him and what is likely a cornice above. The cornice is decorated with two jawless jaguars flanking the forward-facing face of a shark. Curtains have been furled to reveal the seated lord. God L can be identified by his characteristic open-weave brocaded shawl as well as the broad-brimmed hat decorated with owl feathers and a stuffed owl with outstretched wings.\n\nFive elegant female figures, perhaps concubines, and reminiscent of the goddess I from the Dresden Codex, surround the old god, who delicately ties a bracelet on one of them. The women wear loose, flowing sarongs, or tight-fitting wrap around cloths, decorated with batik-like dyed patterns rendered in a soft brown wash. Each has jewelry at the neck, ears, and wrists. One of the women behind god L is pouring chocolate from a vessel similar in shape to the Princeton Vase itself, frothing the bitter delicacy into a vessel whose figure has been lost to wear. \n\nDown below and sitting next to the throne, a rabbit scribe is writing in a book with jaguar-pelt covers, perhaps to record the scene in front of the throne: Two men wearing elaborate masks and wielding axes decapitate a bound, stripped figure whose winding serpent attribute, beset with death-eyes, is typical of writers, or in any case, of functionaries for whom the art of writing was essential. One of the two men shows the features of the wind god, the other one wears an executioner's mask with a jaguar paw nose.\n\nThe tendency has been to explain the vase representation mythologically, with the usual bias towards the Popol Vuh, the 16th-century K'iche' Maya mythological narrative. Viewed within this framework, the scene has been argued to show the execution of Vucub-Hunahpu, uncle to the Hero Twins, by order of god L, taken as the lord of the underworld (Xibalba). However, since the executioners - clad in identical jaguar skirts - are two in number and the wind god character wears a headband, it has also been asserted that the two executioners represent the Hero Twins themselves (or rather the 'Headband Twins', their Classic precursors) now decapitating a lord of the underworld instead of Vucub-Hunahpu. The scene would thus offer a parallel to an episode in which these two heroes trick the underworld lords into asking for their own beheading. Iconographically, these conflicting explanations raise more questions than they answer, while remaining basically speculative. In fact, the execution scene may well involve historical characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6173504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6173504", "title": "R.R. Bowker", "text": "R.R. Bowker\n\nR.R. Bowker LLC (\"Bowker\") is an American limited liability company based in New Providence, New Jersey, and incorporated in Delaware. Among other things, Bowker provides bibliographic information on published works to the book trade, including publishers, booksellers, libraries, and individuals; its roots in the industry trace back to 1868. Bowker is the exclusive U.S. agent for issuing International Standard Book Numbers (ISBNs), a universal method of identifying books in print. Bowker is the publisher of Books in Print and other compilations of information about books and periodical titles. It provides supply chain services and analytical tools to the book publishing industry. Bowker is headquartered in New Providence, New Jersey, with additional operational offices in England and Australia. It is now owned by Cambridge Information Group.\n\nThe company was founded by Frederick Leypoldt, a German immigrant who worked as a bookseller and recognized the need for good bibliographic information to make the book business more efficient. He established the monthly \"Literary Bulletin,\" his first periodical, in 1868. In 1870 Leypoldt issued the first edition of his \"Annual American Catalogue\", the forerunner for \"Books In Print\". In 1872 he published the first issue of \"Publishers Weekly\", in 1873 the first \"Publishers' Uniform Trade-List Annual\" (later the \"Publishers Trade List Annual\"), and in 1876 the first issue of \"Library Journal\". In 1878 Leypoldt's company was acquired by Richard Rogers Bowker. Leypoldt and Bowker also founded two influential standard book-industry references: \"Literary Marketplace\" and \"Ulrich's Periodicals Directory\".\n\nIn 1967, the Xerox Corporation acquired the R. R. Bowker company, and then, in 1985, sold it to Reed International (now Reed Elsevier). That same year, in 1985, \"Publishers Weekly\"—after 113 years as a part of R.R. Bowker—was transferred to the Cahners Publishing Company. In 2001, Cambridge Information Group acquired Bowker. In 2007, Cambridge Information Group merged Cambridge Scientific Abstracts with ProQuest Information and Learning to form ProQuest LLC, a privately held limited liability company based in Ann Arbor, Michigan, and incorporated in Delaware. R. R. Bowker LLC was repositioned as an affiliate of ProQuest.\n\n\nBowker is the United States provider of International Standard Book Numbers (ISBNs), a code for identifying commercial books devised by Gordon Foster in 1967. An ISBN is currently placed on a book to uniquely identify it. ISBNs are available one at a time and in blocks up to 100,000 for a set fee. ISBNs may be purchased and maintained at Bowker's My Identifiers website. Many countries, including the UK, Italy, Germany, Spain, to name a few, charge for ISBNs. Canada and Mexico provide ISBNs free of charge as their ISBN agencies are government funded. Bowker USA charges $125 for one ISBN and offers substantial discounts on volume purchases.\n\n\n\nHACKED\n\nR.R. Bowker said it has learned that unauthorized charges were occurring on cards after they were legitimately used on its www[.]myidentifiers[.]com website, which is responsible for issuing ISBNs. The company said its preliminary investigation has found unauthorized code that was added to the checkout page on the MyIdentifiers site. The investigation is looking to confirm that the breach took place from 01 MAY 2018 through 23 OCT 2018.\n"}
{"id": "37741578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37741578", "title": "Red Kimono on the Roof", "text": "Red Kimono on the Roof\n\nRed Kimono on the Roof is an oil painting by American artist John Sloan, located in the Indianapolis Museum of Art, which is in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. Painted in 1912, its down-to-earth subject matter and execution make it an excellent example of the work of the Ashcan School, which was active in New York City in the early years of the twentieth century.\n\n\"Red Kimono on the Roof\" is a matter-of-fact depiction of a woman in a vibrant red wrap hanging laundry on a New York roof, clothespin in her mouth. Sloan's spontaneous brushwork give the painting a sense of immediacy, while his careful attention to light and shade suggests the passage of time. This particular slice of the Lower East Side probably caught Sloan's eye due to the kimono worn by the woman, a charmingly bohemian sartorial choice that meshed well with the novel Maratta color system Sloan had just begun using on his typically sober paintings. This painting also marks a shift from horizontal to vertical in Sloan's canvases, an artistic and perceptual shift that occurred between 1909 and 1915.\n\nSloan was attracted to the rooftop tableaux visible from his eleventh-floor studio on Sixth Avenue in Greenwich Village. He could look down upon people unselfconsciously going about their daily business, their vivacity making them as fascinating as characters on a stage, performing for an audience of one. All the members of the Ashcan School studiously avoided sentimentality, letting their vigorous slice-of-life images speak for themselves. Even Sloan, the most politically sensitive of the group as an active socialist, refused to editorialize with his paintings.\n\nIn 2008, the IMA loaned out \"Red Kimono on the Roof\" for a traveling exhibition entitled \"Seeing the City: Sloan's New York.\" While the exhibition itself ran from October 2007 to December 2008, the process of preparing the painting for travel began over a year before then. This included everything from assessing the condition of the painting to evaluating the security systems of the other museums to crafting a personalized travel crate. The exhibition visited the Delaware Art Museum, the Westmoreland Museum of American Art, the Smart Museum of Art at the University of Chicago, and the Reynolda House.\n\n\"Red Kimono on the Roof\" was acquired by the IMA in 1954, courtesy of the James E. Roberts Fund. It is on view in the Urban Realism Gallery and has the acquisition number 54.55.\n\n"}
{"id": "4405813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4405813", "title": "Renee Bradshaw", "text": "Renee Bradshaw\n\nIrene \"Renee\" Roberts (also Bradshaw) is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera \"Coronation Street\", played by Madge Hindle. The character was created by producer Bill Podmore as a new shop keeper. He wanted a mature female to create an atmosphere of gossip the show had previously boasted. While Podmore envisioned Renee as a feisty character, Hindle decided to play down the persona and make her likeable. She believed that no one would visit her shop otherwise. Renee was partnered with Alf Roberts (Bryan Mosley) and they later marry. But Hindle and Mosley did not think the two were compatible. Renee also features in a feud over her shop and comedic stories such as a disastrous fishing trip.\n\nWriters eventually decided that the Renee's marriage had failed and wrote her out. Renee was killed off in a car accident. Podmore has maintained that he made the correct decision, citing Renee's exit as establishing Alf as a memorable character. Reporters from \"Inside Soap\" and the \"Sunday Mail\" have branded Renee's death as shocking. The character's wedding was popular with journalists from the \"Daily Record\" and the Independent Broadcasting Authority.\n\nIn early 1976, Bill Podmore replaced Susi Hush as \"Coronation Street's\" executive producer. He was unhappy with the show's Corner Shop set and decided to implement changes. Podmore thought that employees Gail Potter (Helen Worth) and Tricia Hopkins (Kathy Jones) could not create an atmosphere of gossip that the shop had once created. He believed that in order to recreate it, a new mature female should be introduced. He originally planned the character of Renee to be independent, fun and feisty – an ideal to spar with pub landlady Annie Walker (Doris Speed) over alcohol sales. Podmore told Daran Little in his book \"The Coronation Street story\" that \"without a more mature shop staff, the nitty gritty of conversation and tittle-tattle were never going to bounce around its walls.\"\n\nActress Madge Hindle did not audition for the role. She previously starred in \"Nearest and Dearest\" which Podmore directed and he contacted Hindle offering her the role. She accepted the part but had reservations over Renee's characterisation and forced change. Hindle explained to Little that \"I think they wanted somebody to be strong and argumentative like Ena Sharples (Violet Carson). But you can't do that in a shop because people won't come in.\" Hindle had no shop work experience and was not confident with maths. She found the till prop difficult because the tray ejected and hit her in the stomach, ruining many scenes.\n\nRenee's first storyline saw her feuding with Annie over obtaining a license to sell alcohol. Renee angers Annie to the point that she takes the issue to court but Renee persuades Annie's employee, Bet Lynch (Julie Goodyear), to admit that the Rovers Return do not stock wine. The court rule in Renee's favour because she can offer wine to the local community. Renee's problems with the shop continue as she is reported for Sunday trading. Renee creates trouble when she wrongly accuses Emily Bishop (Eileen Derbyshire) of reporting her but Tricia admits that she is the culprit. The serial involved Renee in a romance with widower Alf Roberts (Bryan Mosley). The pair later marry in a registry office during the episode airing on 20 March 1978, despite being told that he was only after her money. They go on to share two years of marital life together. Renee runs the corner shop on Coronation Street and Alf decides to take an early retirement from the Post Office to help her run the shop.\n\nIn one storyline Renee accompanies Alf, Fred Gee (Fred Feast) and Mavis Wilton (Thelma Barlow) on a fishing trip. Renee falls into the river and Mavis jumps in to rescue Renee. Hindle cannot swim and was surprised to be handed a wetsuit to perform her own stunts. She complained to the director who decided to use another actor to film the scene. A six-foot male wearing a dress and a red wig posed as Renee completing the stunt. Barlow was also nervous about the river and had been drinking whisky to keep warm. Location manager Gordon McKeller was unaware and put brandy in Barlow's cups of tea. Subsequently, she kept laughing through the remainder of the location shoot.\n\nHindle and Mosley felt that their character's marriage did not work. The show's writers also came to the same conclusion. Hindle renewed her contract with \"Coronation Street\" in November 1979 and presumed that she would remain for another year. Two days later Podmore arranged a meeting with Hindle and informed her that Renee would be written out.\n\nHowever, Alf's enjoyment of working in the Post Office resurfaces. In the lead up to Renee's exit, she agrees to move to Grange-Over-Sands to run their village Post Office for a \"new start\". In the book \"Fifty Years of Coronation Street\", author Tim Randall notes that Renee and Alf had become \"full of plans\" in their need to \"enjoy the country life to the full\". To prepare for the move Renee decides to take driving lessons so they can fully experience the countryside. Alf takes the role of her driving instructor and during one lesson they decide to take a detour for lunch. On the way home Renee stalls at a set of traffic lights, so Alf exits the car to take the wheel. But as he does a truck makes a \"head-on collision\" with the vehicle. Hindle did not require a stunt double to film her final scenes. Artificial blood was applied to her face and arms. She told a reporter from \"Inside Soap\" that \"the first shot is me going towards the windscreen and then they cut before I got there. Once they decided that was okay, they reversed the shot, broke the glass and stuck my head through it, and then I came back from the windscreen onto the seat.\"\n\nRenee later dies while on an operating table due to a ruptured spleen and liver. The episode featuring Renee's death was broadcast on 30 July 1980. Paul Byrne and Steve Dennis of the \"Daily Record\" reported that Mosley was \"flooded\" with cards from viewers after Renee's death. Hindle told Rosemary Long from \"Evening Times\" that \"I really wanted Renee to live on. I thought she was a good character, good for the Street. I was most upset at being killed off.\" Hindle believed only positive about Renee's death was that she would not be tempted to make occasional returns. Podmore later defended Renee's departure and said \"time proved the decision was correct. Alf Roberts emerged from the shadows of a humdrum marriage.\"\n\nRenee visits her brother, Terry Bradshaw (Bob Mason) and notices that the Corner Shop is for sale. Renee purchases the Corner Shop and opens it as \"Renee Bradshaw\". Renee evicts Gail, Tricia and Elsie Tanner (Pat Phoenix). She begins a feud with Annie from the Rover Return over the acquisition of an alcohol license. When Annie tries to blockade it in court, Renee starts a petition and wins the case. The pair later decide to become friends. Renee's fiancé Harry McClean (Richard Moore) arrives to visit and accuses her of buying the shop to trap him and ends their engagement.\n\nShe becomes close to councillor Alf and begin a relationship. Alf proposes to a drunken Renee who accepts, but she is blames her decision on alcohol. He later proposes again and she turns him down. The third time he asks she accepts and choose a small registry office for their ceremony. Alf is injured in a lorry crash at the Rovers Return. Renee fears he may die but he wakes from his coma and returns home. Alf appears to be affected by the crash and is abusive towards Renee. When he shouts at Annie, Renee apologises for his behaviour. But Alf becomes aggressive towards Renee for interfering. She threatens to leave him unless he receives psychiatric help. Renee becomes annoyed with living on Coronation Street and strives for a better life. Renee and Alf decide to move away to the countryside. She begins to take driving lessons. When Alf gets drunk, Renee is forced to drive despite being a learner driver. The car stalls and will not start. Alf becomes annoyed and orders Renee to exchange seats, but a lorry hits the car. Renee is taken to hospital and dies in surgery. An inquest confirms her death as an accident.\n\nEric Croston from the Independent Broadcasting Authority said that Renee and Alf's wedding had been a \"long-awaited day\" for all. A writer from the \"Sunday Mail\" said that scriptwriters felt that Renee and Alf's marriage was \"dead in the water\". They branded Renee the \"kindly shopkeeper\" who dies in \"a grisly crash which shocked viewers\". A \"Daily Record\" columnist chose the episode that Alf proposes to Renee as their \"drama choice\" in a \"pick of the day\" feature. A reporter from \"Inside Soap\" described her as \"Coronation Street's\" \"much loved shopkeeper\" and added that she had a shocking death. In his book \"Coronation Street\", Jack Tinker said that Renee's death was a \"salutary lesson, perhaps, to all wives who accept driving lessons from their husbands, for it was in the middle of the inevitable row that the tragedy occurred.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "4394183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4394183", "title": "Sherab Palden Beru", "text": "Sherab Palden Beru\n\nSherab Palden Beru (1911 – 29 November 2012) was an exiled Tibetan thangka artist who played a key role in preserving the art-form through the training of western students over a period of more than four decades. \n\nBorn into a nomadic family that had lived in the eastern province of Kham, Tibet, since the mid-15th century, Beru entered the Namgyal Ling monastery at the age of nine. His aptitude for drawing was quickly recognised, and his formal artistic training began from the age of 13, under the guidance of the monastery's artist-lama. Nine years later, he completed his first thangka.\n\nIt was whilst studying at Namgyal Ling that Beru attained high levels of skill, not only in Thangka painting, but also in associated monastic disciplines such as ritual music, and Lama dancing in particular. In 1956, after over 30 years of living at the monastery, Beru left for Lhasa, where he stayed for three years, until forced to escape to India following the invasion of Tibet by Chinese forces.\nOnce in India, Beru began thangka painting again, based for a while in Dalhousie where, amongst other works, he was commissioned by Lokesh Chandra to produce a series of drawings of mandalas for publication. He was then asked by the 16th Karmapa, Rangjung Rigpe Dorje, to make his way to Scotland where Chogyam Trungpa and Akong Tulku Rinpoche had established the first Tibetan Buddhist centre in the west, Kagyu Samye Ling, in Eskdalemuir, Dumfriesshire. Despite having some initial misgivings about leaving the Tibetan community in exile in Northern India so soon after having arrived as a refugee, Beru acceded to the wishes of his Guru.\n\nFor the next 35 years, Beru devoted himself to creating thangkas of outstanding quality in the Karma Gadri style, and to training western students in the techniques of thangka painting. His work can be seen in centres through Europe, Asia and North America.\nHis principal achievements are to be seen at Samye Ling itself, where he designed not only the temple interior but several cycles of exquisite thangkas, depicting variously the Kagyu Lineage holders, Sakyamuni Buddha, Indian mahasiddhas and the Four Directional Guardians. Most notable are the much-copied painting of the Kagyu Lineage Refuge Tree and the painting of the Guru Yoga of the 8th Karmapa, Mikyo Dorje. He painted the thangka of Vajradhara in the Dorje Dzong shrine room in Boulder, Colorado.\n\nThe paintings in the temple at Samye Ling are known for their combination of large size and exquisite detail. As in Tibet, many of these paintings took between one and three years to complete. Along with Akong Rinpoche and his students, Beru also helped retrieve, restore and preserve thangkas from Tibet, many of which were destroyed in the early days of the Chinese occupation. Later Beru was joined at Samye Ling by his nephew, Gyamtso Tashi, an ordained monk and sculptor, who reached India after making a three-year pilgrimage on foot across Tibet.\n\nWell into his 90s, Beru no longer contributed directly to the art-work, but remained a leading authority on matters of Tibetan art, and was regularly consulted by practicing thangka artists. He died on 29 November at Samye Ling at an age of about 100. His body was left completely undisturbed in 'Tukdam' meditation for the traditional three-day period after his death.\n\n"}
{"id": "35692872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35692872", "title": "Sunlight (Benson)", "text": "Sunlight (Benson)\n\nSunlight is an oil painting by Frank Weston Benson currently in the permanent collection at the Indianapolis Museum of Art.\n\nSunlight is created in the American impressionist style. It is a portrait of a woman, who has been identified as Benson's daughter, Eleanor, standing on a hill, looking out towards the Atlantic Ocean off Penobscot Bay in Maine. She is in a white dress that is getting ruffled by the wind blowing off the ocean. Her left hand is up, shielding her face from the sun, while her right hand is planted on her hip, a pose Benson used multiple times. Because of the woman shielding her eyes form the sun, it is likely that the sunlight is the actual subject of the painting.\n\nFrank W Benson started working with the Impressionist style at the turn of the 20th century, and started exclusively using the style by 1909. Benson was one of the forerunners of American Impressionism, especially within the Ten American Painters. Benson was known for painting the idealized world, especially that of the leisure of New England.\n\nBenson was, like most Impressionists, very interested in light. Benson himself stated that, \"I follow the light, where it comes from, where it goes.\"\n\nPainted in 1909, the painting was included in the Sixth Annual Exhibition of Works by American Artists, December 4, 1910 - January 1, 1911. It was later purchased from the artist by the John Herron Art Institute, now Indianapolis Museum of Art, in 1911.\n\n"}
{"id": "34554064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34554064", "title": "Survival of the Fattest (sculpture)", "text": "Survival of the Fattest (sculpture)\n\nSurvival of the Fattest is a sculpture of a small starved boy, carrying a fat woman, the sculpture was made by Jens Galschiøt, and Lars Calmar, in 2002, as a symbol of the imbalanced distribution of the world’s resources.\n\nThe 3.5 metre tall bronze sculpture was made in 2002 and depicts a huge fat woman from the west, sitting on the shoulders of a starved African boy. The woman is holding a pair of scales as a symbol of justice, but her eyes are closed to show that justice is degenerating into self-righteousness and unwillingness to see the obvious injustice.\n\nThe sculpture intended to send out a message to the rich part of the world, and seems to create focus on our obesity due to over consumption while people in the third world are dying of hunger. Due to the imbalanced distribution of the resources in the world, the most people in the western countries are living comfortably, they are oppressing the poor people by means of an unjust world trade. The rich countries are by means of tariff barriers and subsidies keeping the poor countries out of the markets of the West.\n\nOn the sculpture there is an inscription, which states: \"I'm sitting on the back of a man. He is sinking under the burden. I would do anything to help him. Except stepping down from his back.\" \n\nIn 2009 at the 15th Climate Change Conference (COP15), Jens Galschiot exhibited a series of sculptures titled SevenMeters, in which \"Survival of the Fattest\" perhaps was the most poignant sculpture.\n\n\"Survival of the Fattest\" was placed in the harbour of Copenhagen, next to the internationally famous statue, \"The Little Mermaid\". Based on a fairy tale by the Danish fairy tale writer Hans Christian Andersen. \"The Little Mermaid\" is a national monument and seen by an estimated 1 million tourists a year.\n\nBy placing his sculpture in the water next to \"The Little Mermaid\", Galschiot was assured that its explosive message would receive international attention. The act also highlighted that the goals and objectives of the wealthy nations at the Climate Change Conference to be nothing more than fairy tales.\n\n"}
{"id": "57873112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57873112", "title": "The Archangel Gabriel (Zurbarán)", "text": "The Archangel Gabriel (Zurbarán)\n\nThe Archangel Gabriel is a 1634 painting by Francisco de Zurbarán, now in the Musée Fabre in Montpellier, which has owned it since 1634.\n\n"}
{"id": "4282253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4282253", "title": "The Art Conspiracy", "text": "The Art Conspiracy\n\nThe Art Conspiracy is a Dallas-based non-profit art collective.\n\nThe group was founded by photographer Sarah Jane Semrad and musician Jason Roberts in the fall of 2005 to help raise money for local charities while providing a forum for area artists and musicians to combine forces and promote their works. The group's inaugural gala was held on December 3, 2005 at the Texas Theater (the site of Lee Harvey Oswald's arrest) and raised over $10,000 for the Dallas chapter of the Children's Health Fund. The concept for the event included gathering 100 artists together twenty four hours prior to the event, and having them paint on a single sheet of 18\" x 18\" plywood. The following day, doors were opened to the long vacant theater and a crowd of close to 1000 people quickly purchased all available pieces through an auction process while local musicians performed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48942158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48942158", "title": "The Death of General Mercer at the Battle of Princeton, January 3, 1777", "text": "The Death of General Mercer at the Battle of Princeton, January 3, 1777\n\nThe Death of General Mercer at the Battle of Princeton, January 3, 1777 is the title of an oil painting by the American artist John Trumbull depicting the death of the American General Hugh Mercer at the Battle of Princeton on January 3, 1777 during the American Revolutionary War. The painting was Trumbull’s first depiction of an American victory. It is one of a series of historical paintings on the war, which also includes the \"Declaration of Independence\" and \"The Capture of the Hessians at Trenton, December 26, 1776\".\n\nThe artist expressed his great admiration for General George Washington in this painting as he wrote in the catalogue for his exhibited works at Yale University in 1835:\n\nIt was a personal favorite of Trumbull himself. When asked by Benjamin Silliman which paintings he would save from destruction in the Trumbull Gallery at Yale, he said this one.\n\nTrumbull used the General's son, Hugh Jr., as a model for the painting.\n\nThe picture displays several different events of the battle as if they occurred simultaneously.\n\nAt the center, American General Hugh Mercer, with his dead horse beneath him, is shown mortally wounded. Mercer was commanding the leading division of the Continental Army when attacked by British Colonel Charles Mawhood near Princeton, New Jersey. Mercer's horse was killed and he was attacked by two grenadiers. The British were in control of the battle at this moment. Mercer would be treated for his wounds by Dr. Benjamin Rush the next day, January 4, but died on January 12 as a result, Dr. Rush believed, of a concussion caused by a musket butt to the head\n\nAt the left, American Daniel Neil is shown bayoneted against a cannon.\n\nAt the right, British Captain William Leslie is shown mortally wounded. Leslie died during the battle and was put on a wagon by the British that was later taken by the Americans. Rush also learned of his death on January 4. He would be buried at Pluckemin, New Jersey the next day, January 5.\n\nIn the background, American General George Washington and Dr. Benjamin Rush enter the scene. After Mercer became a casualty, Washington needed to lead the charge to overtake Mawhood's troops and win the battle. On the far left, American General Thomas Mifflin is shown leading a cavalry charge. American Colonel John Cadwalader and British Colonel Edmund Eyre are also depicted.\n\nTrumbull worked on this painting for many years and created several sketches and final oil paintings. A collection of sketches is located at the Princeton University Library.\n\nA large scale version ( x ), painted in 1831, is owned by the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nThe Yale University Art Gallery also owns an unfinished version dated –.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57232676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57232676", "title": "The Forgotten Man (painting)", "text": "The Forgotten Man (painting)\n\nThe Forgotten Man is a 2010 painting by the American artist Jon McNaughton. It depicts President Barack Obama standing in front of the White House. The subject matter of the painting was inspired by the passage of the Affordable Care Act. McNaughton unveiled the painting in a YouTube video on September 14, 2010. It was the second in a series of politically charged portraits painted by McNaughton.\n\nThe 43 men who as of 2010 had served as President of the United States are gathered in a park in front of the White House, above which the American flag can be seen, at half mast. In general, the 18th and 19th century presidents are on the left, the later ones on the right, some appear lost in thought while others, Bill Clinton and the two Roosevelts, are applauding. The only non-president in the painting is a young white man, who sits alone on a park bench, hunched over in despair, contemplating his future. Some of the presidents, including Washington, Jefferson, Lincoln and Reagan reach out to him, while looking toward Barack Obama who stands in the foreground right. James Madison, the Father of the Constitution, is outraged by Obama's actions, for beneath Obama's foot is the U.S. Constitution. Scattered on the ground are dollar bills, laws and amendments that form part of the Bill of Rights.\n\nThe painting gained initial notoriety in 2010 when it was featured on MSNBC television host Rachel Maddow's blog as part of a caption contest. In 2012, it drew satirical praise during an episode of \"The Colbert Report\" from Stephen Colbert's conservative persona.\n\nAfter being purchased by conservative commentator Sean Hannity in 2016, \"The Forgotten Man\" was rumored to have been bought as a gift for then President-elect Donald Trump, though a spokesperson for Fox News (Hannity's employer) later clarified that the painting was never intended to be given as a gift.\n\nThe painting has drawn comparisons to a 1934 Maynard Dixon painting of the same name.\n\n"}
{"id": "25108295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25108295", "title": "The Garden of Paradise", "text": "The Garden of Paradise\n\n\"The Garden of Paradise\" () is a literary fairy tale by Hans Christian Andersen first published by C. A. Reitzel in Copenhagen, Denmark on 19 October 1839 with \"The Flying Trunk\" and \"The Storks\" in the second booklet of \"Fairy Tales Told for Children. New Collection.\" King Max read and liked the tale. Andersen biographer Jackie Wullschlager considers the story and its two companion pieces in the booklet as \"grim\". \"The Garden of Paradise\" ends with Death approaching a young prince and warning him to expiate his sins for, one day, he will come for him and \"clap him in the black coffin\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18481737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481737", "title": "The Hopkins Review", "text": "The Hopkins Review\n\n\"The Hopkins Review\" is a quarterly academic journal that publishes fiction, poetry, memoirs, essays on literature, drama, film, the visual arts, music, dance, and reviews of books in all these areas, as well as reviews of performances and exhibits. The original \"Hopkins Review\" was a literary quarterly published by the Johns Hopkins Writing Seminars from 1947 to 1953. It was brought back in 2008 in a joint venture between the Writing Seminars and the Johns Hopkins University Press. The current editor-in-chief is David Yezzi.\n\n"}
{"id": "37547934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37547934", "title": "The Theory of Good and Evil", "text": "The Theory of Good and Evil\n\nThe Theory of Good and Evil is a 1907 book about ethics by the English philosopher Hastings Rashdall. It has been seen as Rashdall's most important philosophical work. Rashdall's work has been compared to that of the philosopher G. E. Moore.\n\n\"The Theory of Good and Evil\" is dedicated to the philosophers Thomas Hill Green and Henry Sidgwick. In the work, Rashdall discusses ethics. Subjects addressed include utilitarianism, the work of the philosopher G. E. Moore, including \"Principia Ethica\" (1903), the work of F. H. Bradley, and Christian theology. In his second volume, he deals with potential objections to his views.\n\n\"The Theory of Good and Evil\" was first published by the Clarendon Press in 1907. In 2004, it was republished by Elibron Classics.\n\n\"The Theory of Good and Evil\" was discussed by Daniel Shannon in \"Saint Anselm Journal\". Shannon described the book as Rashdall's best known work, but criticized Rashdall's evaluation of Christian theology.\n\nThe philosopher Richard Wollheim described \"The Theory of Good and Evil\" as \"a compendious work marred by priggishness\" in \"F. H. Bradley\" (1969). The philosopher John Rawls compared Rashdall's ethical views to those of Moore, writing in \"A Theory of Justice\" (1971) that the position that the capacity for a higher life may be grounds for treating men unequally is implicit in \"Principia Ethica\". James W. Allard described \"The Theory of Good and Evil\" as Rashdall's most important philosophical work in \"The Cambridge Dictionary of Philosophy\" (1999). R. S. Downie considered Rashdall's dedication of \"The Theory of Good and Evil\" to Green and Sidgwick appropriate, noting in \"The Oxford Companion to Philosophy\" (2005) that Rashdall was indebted to both philosophers. He suggested that Rashdall had been \"unfairly eclipsed as a moral philosopher\" by Moore.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5706431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5706431", "title": "Theatre Royal, Bath", "text": "Theatre Royal, Bath\n\nThe Theatre Royal in Bath, England, was built in 1805. A Grade II* listed building, it has been described by the Theatres Trust as \"One of the most important surviving examples of Georgian theatre architecture\". It has a capacity for an audience of around 900.\n\nThe Theatre Royal was built to replace the Old Orchard Street Theatre, funded by a Tontine and elaborately decorated. The architect was George Dance the Younger, with John Palmer carrying out much of the work. It opened with a performance of Shakespeare's Richard III and hosted performances by many leading actors of the time including Dorothea Jordan, William Macready and Edmund Kean. A major fire in 1862 destroyed the interior of the building and was quickly followed by a rebuilding programme by Charles J. Phipps, which included the construction of the current entrance. Further redecoration was undertaken in 1892; more extensive building work, including a new staircase and the installation of electric lighting, followed in 1902. Despite performances by casts including Sarah Bernhardt, the ballerina Anna Pavlova and Mrs. Patrick Campbell, the theatre was rarely very profitable. During World War II Donald Wolfit, Irene Vanbrugh, John Gielgud and Sybil Thorndike appeared, with shows including Noël Coward's \"Private Lives\" and \"Blyth Spirit\", a performance by Ballet Rambert and light entertainment such as \"Charley's Aunt\", but audiences declined.\n\nIn 1979 the theatre was bought by a trust and, following public donations, it underwent refurbishment, with the rebuilding of the stage and the installation of a new taller fly tower for scenery and lighting. In 1997 a new 150 seat theatre, known as the Ustinov Studio, was opened. Further restoration work to the main auditorium was needed in 2010. In 2005 a children's theatre known as The Egg was opened. The complex also includes bars and restaurants. The Theatre Royal is host to several annual events, including the Family Theatre Festival and the Shakespeare Unplugged Festival.\n\nThe theatre was erected in 1805, replacing the Old Orchard Street Theatre which had obtained a royal patent in 1768 enabling the use of the title 'Theatre Royal', the first to achieve this outside London. The Orchard Street site became a church and is now a Freemason's Hall. The new theatre was first proposed in 1802 at several sites in Bath until the current site was chosen in 1804; funding was raised by the use of a Tontine, an investment plan named after the Neapolitan banker Lorenzo de Tonti, who is credited with inventing it in France in 1653. It combined features of a group annuity and a lottery. Each subscriber paid an agreed sum into the fund, and thereafter received an annuity. As members died, their shares devolved to the other participants, and so the value of each annuity increased. On the death of the last member, the scheme was wound up. Shares, which cost £200, were rapidly purchased, with the Prince Regent who later became George IV and his brother Prince Frederick among the subscribers. A similar scheme had previously been used for the construction of the Bath Assembly Rooms.\n\nThe exterior of the building, with arches, pilasters, garlands and ornaments, which is visible from Beauford Square, was designed by George Dance the Younger who also designed the decorative sections of the interior. The main fabric of the building was by John Palmer, who supervised the construction. The ceiling was decorated with panels from Fonthill Splendens, a mile from Fonthill Abbey, which were painted by Andrea Casali and donated to the theatre by Paul Cobb Methuen. Because of the potential damage from the gas lights, which were installed in 1827, the paintings were moved by William Blathwayt to Dyrham Park.\n\nThe opening night was on 12 October 1805 was a production of Richard III, with an unknown actor in the lead. Though not a success, the theatre soon established a good reputation and thrived under the management of William Wyatt Dimond. Early performances included appearances by the child actors Master Betty and Clara Fisher, with adult leads from prominent actors on the London stage including Dorothea Jordan, William Macready and Edmund Kean. In addition to Shakespeare and other serious drama, the productions included opera and comedy with Joseph Grimaldi playing the clown in a pantomime of Mother Goose in November 1815.\n\nBetween the 1810s and 1850s there were a series of changes in ownership and management. These coincided with a Puritan revival and a fall in Bath's popularity; reductions in receipts were compounded by rising payments for actors from London. As a result, the theatre underwent financial crises and fell into a period of decline. Fortunes began to improve when James Henry Chute, who was the manager of the Bath Assembly Rooms and the son-in-law of the owner Mrs Macready, took over as the manager of the theatre and once again audiences began to rise.\n\nOn 18 April 1862 a major fire destroyed the interior of the building including the stage, scenery, wardrobe and library, leaving just the exterior walls still standing. A new company was formed to rebuild the theatre and a competition held for designs. The winner was C.J. Phipps and rebuilding, which included the new entrance on Sawclose, quickly followed. The present main entrance to the Theatre Royal, in Sawclose, was built in 1720 by Thomas Greenway, and was previously at Beau Nash's house. Pevsner criticizes the mouldings of window-frames, frieze and volutes of the door-hood brackets as \"characteristically overdone\", and mentions Wood citing its \"profuse ornament\" which was typical of a mason rather than an architect. Chute remained as manager and employed Charles Kean and Ellen Terry to play in \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\" on the opening night, 3 March 1863.\n\nInitially the reopened theatre struggled to become profitable despite appearances by Henry Irving among others. In 1885 William Lewis took over as the lessee and was followed, in 1892, by his son Egbert Lewis. They redecorated the theatre in 1892 and attracted larger regular audiences to performances of melodrama and comedy while starting to put on Gilbert and Sullivan operas and other attractions.\n\nIn 1902 the theatre closed for nine months to enable extensive building work to be carried out in accordance with the terms of the Royal Charter. This involved a new staircase, the installation of electric lighting, a new fire curtain and hot water radiators throughout the auditorium. In 1905, on the anniversary of the opening of the Theatre Royal, numerous William Shakespeare's plays were performed by the company of actors led by Frank Benson.\n\nIn 1914 the theatre impresario Arthur Carlton, from Worcester, took over the lease. As he was responsible for 14 theatres around the country at the time, he appointed Mrs D. Valantine Munro as the local manager. Performances were maintained during World War I, and in 1916 Sarah Bernhardt portrayed a wounded male French soldier in \"Du Théâtre au Champ d'Honneur\". In the 1920s there were appearances by the Russian ballerina Anna Pavlova and Mrs. Patrick Campbell. During the Great Depression of the 1930s the theatre was not profitable and closed completely for six months. In 1938 the lease was taken over by Reg Maddox, whose family were involved with the theatre for the next 40 years. During World War II the theatre fared better, with appearances by prominent actors including Donald Wolfit, Irene Vanbrugh, John Gielgud and Sybil Thorndike. In the Post-War years, receipts suffered as audiences dwindled in the face of competition from cinema and television. Unsuccessful proposals were made for a trust to run the theatre in 1968, and in the 1970s, shares in the owning company were bought by the property developer Charles Ware, who sold to Charles Clarke, a solicitor from Bristol. Clarke was responsible for a redecoration of the building, but as profits were still small, in 1976 he sold it to Louis I. Michaels, who ran the Haymarket Theatre in London.\n\nIn March 1979, the dilapidated theatre was purchased by a trust headed by Jeremy Fry for £155,000. The following year, an appeal was launched to raise money for renovations, including the complete rebuilding of the stage, installation of a steel grid to hold stage lighting and scenery and a higher fly system, to allow major touring companies, including the Royal National Theatre under Peter Hall, to be booked to perform. The total projected cost was £3.5 million, of which £1.8 million was seen as being essential to reopening the theatre. Money and donations in kind were received from the city council, Arts Council England, Bath Preservation Trust, Leche Trust, Historic buildings council, Manifold Trust, South-West Stonecleaning and Restoration Company and many individuals. Work on the building started to designs by Dowton and Hurst. However, as insufficient funds had been raised by 1982 to complete the work, loans were negotiated with the Bristol & West and Lombard North Central with guarantees from local councils. The theatre reopened on 30 November 1982 with a performance of \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", featuring a cast from the National Theatre led by Paul Scofield. The event was attended by Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon.\n\nIn October 2009, the '2010 Refurbishment Appeal' was launched by Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, Royal Patron of the Theatre Royal Bath, to raise money for a programme of work to preserve the 200-year-old building, while ensuring that it remained suitable for 21st-century audiences.\nThe £3million refurbishment by Fry, the most extensive programme of work since the theatre had been saved from virtual collapse almost 30 years before, included an expanded foyer, improved lift and disabled access to the stalls and royal circle levels, complete refurbishment of the bars and the creation of The Jeremy Fry Bar, in the former cellars of The Garrick's Head pub, and redecoration of the auditorium. Technical improvements included the rebuilding of the Main House stage, and an extensive rewiring and lighting programme around the entire building, with new fire alarm systems, air-conditioning and lighting, all designed to improve the building's efficiency and reduce the carbon footprint by some 30%. The design was by architects of the Fielden Clegg Bradley Studios, and the construction firm Midas was contracted to complete the building work.\n\nA successful campaign, led by writer and novelist Bel Mooney, who had been instrumental in previous fund-raising campaigns for the Theatre Royal Bath, saw almost a third of the money raised through donations and sponsorship, enabling work to begin away from public areas in March 2010. The theatre's Main House was closed in July 2010, to allow the work on the foyer, bars and auditorium to be completed.\n\nThe official re-opening took place on Wednesday, 8 September 2010, just ten and a half months after the original campaign was launched, with the building work being completed on schedule. The ceremonial re-opening was performed on-stage by actors Penelope Keith and Peter Bowles, who were starring in the Theatre Royal's own production of \"The Rivals\", Richard Brinsley Sheridan's classic Restoration comedy, set in and around 18th-century Bath. In 2011, the theatre won a British Construction Industry Award Conservation Award.\n\nThe theatre itself is said to be haunted by several ghosts including the Grey Lady, who was an actress centuries ago. She has been seen watching productions in the Grey Lady Box, and she leaves the distinctive scent of jasmine. She has purportedly been seen and scented in recent years.\n\nThe theatre, along with the neighbouring Garrick's Head public house, is a Grade II* listed building and is considered a prime example of Georgian architecture. The oldest part of the building is the former Garrick's Head on St John's Close. The three storey five bay building, with a basement, has a hipped roof with a part-balustraded parapet. Above the door is a bust of David Garrick, which was made in 1831 by Lucius Gahagan. The Beauford Square side of the building, originally designed by George Dance the Younger, is of five bays with pilasters carrying a frieze of comic and tragic muses. The central door was the main entrance for the pit and galleries. The east front, now the main entrance which opens onto Sawclose, was altered from a plain six-bay entrance by the addition of the round-arched foyer hiding four of the original bays. The 900 seat auditorium has tiers of ornate plasterwork, with red and gilt decoration, and a trompe-l'œil ceiling and glittering chandelier. It has three galleries in a horseshoe plan, supported by cast iron pillars.\n\nIn 2017 the Sawclose area between the current Theatre Royal main entrance and the former Bluecoat School is to be made into a pedestrian-friendly shared space area for pedestrians, cyclists and cars.\n\nIn 1997, a studio theatre was built at the rear of the building on Monmouth Street, called the Ustinov Studio, named after the actor Peter Ustinov. The front of the building is decorated with a bronze winged figure which was designed by his son, Igor Ustinov, entitled \"Hopefully\". The 150-seat auditorium was originally a space for the youth theatre and small-scale touring productions, but the Ustinov programme soon expanded to encompass classical concerts, stand-up comedy (including high-profile acts such as Bill Bailey, Stewart Lee and Lucy Porter) and in-house productions. To accommodate the technical needs of these productions, a refurbishment was planned to take place throughout 2007, improving the backstage & technical facilities, the foyer, bar and auditorium. The Ustinov Studio re-opened in February 2008, with their own production of \"Breakfast With Mugabe\", starring Joseph Marcell, Miles Anderson and Nicholas Bailey.\n\nAs of 2015, the studio is led by the Artistic Director Laurence Boswell. In the 2012 American Season at the Ustinov Studio, Sarah Ruhl's \"In the Next Room\" (or \"The Vibrator Play\") was the winner of the Best New Play — Theatre Awards UK 2012 and nominated for three Tony Awards. The Ustinov Studio was also nominated for the prestigious Empty Space ... Peter Brook Award 2012. \"The Daily Telegraph\"'s Dominic Cavendish praised the venue as a \"constantly bubbling fount of marvels\" at the awards ceremony. The Ustinov also received a second consecutive nomination for the 2013 awards.\n\nIn Autumn 2013, the Ustinov presented \"The Spanish Golden Age Season\", three new translations of rarely seen plays. These included the tragedy \"Punishment without Revenge\", and the romantic comedies \"Don Gil of the Green Breeches\" and \"A Lady of Little Sense\", which ran in repertory with a cast of ten actors in all three plays between September and December 2013. It was later transferred to the Arcola Theatre.\n\nIn Summer 2014, the Ustinov Studio presented a new comedy, 'Bad Jews', and in November of the same year, a black comedy by Florian Zeller, 'The Father' starring Kenneth Cranham. Both of these plays have gone on to huge national and international success in following two years, running almost continuously on several tours and West End transfers, culminating in Kenneth Cranham winning the Olivier Award for Best Actor in a Play at the 2016 Awards Ceremony.\n\nIn 2005 another new theatre was opened behind the Theatre Royal, The Egg, which provides professional theatre productions for children and their families, alongside workshops and youth theatre productions. It includes a cafe, which is also the venue for children's and family events, and occasional teenage arts events.\n\nThe theatre's Vaults Restaurant provides pre-show dinners and matinée lunches, and a suite of rooms (\"The 1805 Rooms\") are available for functions. The Theatre Royal is also licensed to host weddings and civil partnership ceremonies.\n\nAlongside the weekly touring productions which make up most of its programme, the Theatre Royal is host to several annual events, including the Family Theatre Festival and the Shakespeare Unplugged Festival. The Peter Hall Company Season was held from 2003 until 2011. Many plays start at the Theatre Royal before their official opening in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37648896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37648896", "title": "Thomas Allen &amp; Son Limited", "text": "Thomas Allen &amp; Son Limited\n\nThomas Allen & Son Limited is a Canadian book distributor, in continuous operation for over 90 years. They have published award-winning books like \"\" by Russell Wangersky. Its publishing arm, Thomas Allen Publishers, was sold to Dundurn Press in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "4246369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4246369", "title": "Tracy Cohen", "text": "Tracy Cohen\n\nTracy Cohen is a Canadian television producer. She has worked on numerous series including \"Kenny vs. Spenny\", \"Mayday\", \"Style Her Famous\", \"Superstar Hair Challenge\", \"Instant Beauty Pageant\", \"Three Takes\", \"Pop Cultured\", \"Sexy Girl\", \"Thrill of a Lifetime\", \"From The Ground Up with Debbie Travis\", and \"Are You Smarter Than a Canadian 5th Grader?\"\n\nWhile a student, Tracy was Canada's ambassador to the Hugh O'Brian Youth Leadership Foundation conference at Tufts University in Boston.\n\nAs an on-camera performer, in 2000, Tracy hosted one of the first webcasts, \"Tracy Talk\", a teen talk show. Tracy co-hosted episodes of \"Porthole TV\" and Tracy also appeared on an episode of \"Mayday\". She was featured doing comedy sketches on occasional episodes of \"3 Takes\" on the Slice Network in Canada.\n\nTracy currently lives in Ottawa.\n"}
{"id": "32846258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32846258", "title": "TwickFolk", "text": "TwickFolk\n\nTwickFolk (previously known as Twickenham Folk Club) organises acoustic music events in and around Twickenham, south-west London. A registered charity, it is run, not for profit, by a small group of volunteers. It was established in January 1983 and is now one of the best known and most highly respected folk clubs in London and the South East of England.\n\nTwickFolk organises gigs on Sunday evenings, usually at the Patchworks music venue at The Cabbage Patch pub in London Road, Twickenham, featuring British and North American acoustic folk and roots-based music in a programme that includes blues, country music and Americana as well as traditional folk music. The evening usually consists of a main \"guest\" preceded by a support act or several floor spots.\n\nOccasionally TwickFolk organises singers' nights. These consist of either several performed floor spots or an unplugged singaround where everyone sits in a circle and those who want to sing or play an instrument can take turns to do so. TwickFolk has also organised workshops on building a cigar box guitar and on playing guitar and nyckelharpa.\n\nTwickFolk has also held charity fundraising nights benefiting national and local charities.\n\nIn March 2014 BBC Radio Wales marked the Six Nations rugby tournament by broadcasting live, from Isleworth's Red Lion pub, a concert, \"Twickenham Heartbeat\", in its folk roots and acoustic music programme \"Celtic Heartbeat\". Hosted by Frank Hennessy and Bethan Elfyn, it featured performers from TwickFolk, and special guests including Ralph McTell.\n\nNoel Murphy's CD \"A Session\" was recorded live, with The Mahogany Gaspipes, in a folk session at The Cabbage Patch pub in 1997.\n\nGuests who have appeared at TwickFolk include Nels Andrews, Les Barker, Sally Barker, Ben Bedford, Alyssa Bonagura, Maggie Boyle and Paul Downes, Chuck Brodsky, The Carrivick Sisters, Olivia Chaney, Cathryn Craig and Brian Willoughby, Racker Donnelly, Kris Drever, Gareth Dunlop, Ana Egge, Carrie Elkin, Dave Ellis and Boo Howard, Mark Erelli, Stephen Fearing, David Francey, Vin Garbutt, Dick Gaughan, Grand Union, Melissa Greener, Tim Grimm, Harp and a Monkey, Jack Harris, Hatful of Rain, Fabian Holland, Rebecca Hollweg, Jacquelyn Hynes, Luke Jackson, Jeni and Billy, Robb Johnson, Diana Jones, Kara, Martin Karran and Sara O'Keeffe, Will Kaufman, Sam Kelly Trio, Lau, Kelley McRae, Madison Violet, Emily Maguire, Flossie Malavialle, Iain Matthews, Megson, Jim Moray, Jess Morgan,<ref name=\"Morgan/Wilde\"></ref> Elliott Morris, Pete Morton, Linde Nijland, Maz O'Connor, O'Hooley & Tidow, Earl Okin, Ellis Paul, Rod Picott, Rebecca Pronsky, Kim Richey, Justin Rutledge, Liz Simcock, Stephen Simmons, Soiree, Southern Tenant Folk Union, Sunjay, Vicki Swan & Jonny Dyer, Miranda Sykes and Rex Preston, Kath Tait, Greg Trooper, Dan Walsh, Kevin Welch, Dan Wilde, Winter Wilson and Chris Wood.\n\n"}
{"id": "38737833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38737833", "title": "Women's Caucus for Art", "text": "Women's Caucus for Art\n\nThe Women's Caucus for Art (WCA), founded in 1972, is a non-profit organization based in New York City, which supports women artists, art historians, students, educators, and museum professionals. The WCA holds exhibitions and conferences to promote women artists and their works and recognizes the talents of artists through their annual Lifetime Achievement Award. Since 1975 it has been a United Nations-affiliated non-governmental organization (NGO), which has broadened its influence beyond the United States. Within the WCA are several special interest causes including the Women of Color caucus, Eco-Art Caucus, Jewish Women Artist Network, International Caucus and the Young Women's Caucus. The founding of the WCA is seen as a \"great stride\" in the feminist art movement.\n\nThe Women's Caucus for Art membership includes artists, students, educators, art historians, and professionals from museums and galleries. The organization holds conferences, produces exhibitions, conducts research and issues awards.\n\nAlong with the founding of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, its creation is seen as one of the \"great strides [that] have been made in developing an institutional infrastructure for women's art and art history since the 1970s.\"\n\nWithin the broader feminist movement of the late 1960s and early 1970s, a feminist art movement began to contest women's under-representation in professional art organizations, art exhibitions and art history textbooks. The movement \"was a major watershed in women's history and the history of art.\" Its slogan was \"the personal is political.\"\n\nIn 1969, Women Artists in Revolution (WAR) formed in response to the inclusion of “only 8 women among the 143 artists shown” at the Whitney Museum’s 1969 Annual. WAR “demanded that the museum change its policies to include more women artists.” In 1971, Linda Nochlin’s \"Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?\" and Judy Chicago and Miriam Schapiro started the Feminist Art Program at Cal Arts, which provided a new arts education for women based on mentorship, training in tools, research about women artists, consciousness-raising, and role-playing. The following year, \"Paula Harper and twenty-one participants in the Feminist Art Program\" conceived of \"a landmark collaborative installation staged in an empty house in Los Angeles\" and called Womanhouse\n\nAt its annual conference in San Francisco, women within the College Art Association formed a women's caucus on 28 January 1972, electing Ann Sutherland Harris as the first president (1972-1974). However, tensions developed between this group and the CAA board, and in November 1973 the CAA executive asked \"the Women's Caucus, which is not officially affiliated with the CAA, to drop the use of the phrase 'of the CAA' from its name.\"\n\nIn 1974 Mary Garrard, president of the caucus from 1974 to 1976, oversaw the formation of the Women's Caucus for Art (WCA) as an independent non-profit organization. Arlene Raven, who, with Judy Chicago and Sheila Levrant de Bretteville, founded the Feminist Studio Workshop of Women's Building, was also part of WCA's roots as was Eleanor Dickenson. The WCA grew, establishing regional chapters and publishing research on women's art. Membership broadened from predominantly art historians to a majority of women artists, and the third president, Judy Brodsky, was herself an artist rather than art historian.\n\nIn 1977 the Coalition of Women's Art Organizations (CWAO) was formed as a political arm of the WCA.\n\nThe Women's Caucus for Art is a national member organization with 23 regional chapters located throughout the United States. The headquarters, in New York City, is an umbrella organization governed by a national board of directors consisting of an executive committee (president, president elect, treasurer/secretary, vice president/chair of national exhibitions, past president/chair of legacy, vice president of chapter relations, vice president for organizational outreach, vice president for development and vice president of special events), regional vice presidents, standing committee chairs, directors (including chairs of internal caucuses)) and board-appointed advisors. The National President is voted in by the membership for two-year terms. Half of the board is nominated by the incoming president and approved by the board, and the other half is voted in by chapter representatives.\n\nMany of the regional chapters are organized as separate 501(c)3 non profit organizations. The Northeast Region consists of WCA New Hampshire, Central Mass WCA, WCA New York, and Philadelphia WCA. The Southeast Region consists of Greater Washington DC WCA, WCA Georgia, WCA Alabama, WCA Florida, and WCA Louisiana. The Midwest Region consists of Chicago WCA, WCA Michigan, WCA Minnesota, WCA Indiana, WCA Nebraska, and St. Louis Missouri WCA. The Southwest Region consists of WCA Colorado and Texas WCA. The Pacific Region consists of WCA Northern California, WCA Peninsula, WCA Monterey Bay, Silicon Valley WCA, Southern California WCA and Oregon WCA.\n\nWithin the WCA are several special interest causes including the Women of Color caucus, Eco-Art Caucus, Jewish Women Artist Network, International Caucus and the Young Women's Caucus.\n\nAfter being appointed to Vice President of Minority Affairs by the President Ofelia Garcia in 1986, artist and activist Faith Ringgold proposed the formation of a women of color caucus. It was within this context that \"Coast to Coast\", an arts organization for women of color, was created.\n\nThe Jewish Women Artist Network (JWAN) was founded by Francia Tobacman. From 2006-2012 it organized national conferences of Jewish related themes. The International Caucus maintains WCA's involvement with the United Nations, develops art exhibitions related to the UN Goals, develops collaborative projects with other global organizations, collects data about WCA's art and activism projects, and shares this information with the larger WCA membership. The Young Women's Caucus supports women artists of who are college students, returning students and young professionals seeking to create a career in art. It provides networking resources to established women artists within the broader organization.\n\nIn 1979 the WCA created the National Lifetime Achievement Awards. The goal was to acknowledge the work of notable women in the arts and stimulate the growth of opportunities within the arts. An important annual function, honorees are selected by a group of notable WCA scholars and artists. A few honorees include painter Georgia O'Keeffe, painter Alice Neel, art historian Lucy R. Lippard, sculptor and painter Selma Burke, and women's museum founder Wilhelmina Holladay.\n\n\n\n\nThe Women's Caucus for Art has been a United Nations-affiliated NGO (non-governmental agency) since 1975. An NGO is \"any non-profit, voluntary citizens' group which is organized on a local, national or international level. Task-oriented and driven by people with a common interest, NGOs perform a variety of service and humanitarian functions, bring citizen concerns to Governments, advocate and monitor policies and encourage political participation through provision of information.\" As the liaison group between WCA and the United Nations, WCA's International Caucus members have participated in, and created exhibitions, side events at UN DPI/NGO conferences in support of UN goals and priorities and participated in UN Commission on the Status of Women conferences.\n\nIn the fall of 1995, the UN-sponsored Fourth World International Conference on Women was held in China. \"The purpose of the conference was to discuss the advancement and involvement of women in world affairs.\" The WCA sent 100 women artists, art educators and art activists to attend conferences and workshops. \"As a reaction to this expedition, the artists were asked to create works depicting their experiences. From this was born the exhibit Beijing and Beyond: Women Artists Respond To The World Conference On Women.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17657216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17657216", "title": "Women – for America, for the World", "text": "Women – for America, for the World\n\nWomen – for America, for the World is a 1986 American short documentary film directed by Vivienne Verdon-Roe about women anti-nuclear activists. It won an Oscar in 1987 for Documentary Short Subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "23605592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23605592", "title": "Yaqut al-Musta'simi", "text": "Yaqut al-Musta'simi\n\nYaqut al-Musta'simi (also Yakut-i Musta'simi) (died 1298) was a well-known calligrapher and secretary of the last Abbasid caliph. \n\nBorn Abu’l-Majd Jamal al-Din Yaqut, he became known as Yaqut al-Musta‘simi because he served Caliph al-Musta‘sim, the last Abassid caliph. He was probably of Greek origin in Amaseia and carried off when he was very young. \n\nHe was a slave in the court of Al-Musta'sim and went on to become a calligrapher in the Royal Court. He spent most of his life in Baghdad and converted to Islam. He studied with the female scholar and calligrapher, Shuhda Bint Al-‘Ibari, who was herself a student in the direct line of Ibn al-Bawwab. During the Mongol invasion of Baghdad (1258), he took refuge in the minaret of a mosque so he could finish his calligraphy practice, while the city was being ransacked. His career, however, flourished under Mongol patronage. \n\nHe refined and codified six basic calligraphic styles of the Arabic script. Naskh script was said to have been revealed and taught to the scribe in a vision. He improved on Ibn Muqla's style by replacing the straight cut reed pen with an oblique cut, which resulted in a more elegant script. He developed \"Yakuti\", a handwriting named after him, described as a thuluth of \"a particularly elegant and beautiful type.\"\n\nHe taught many students, both Arab and non-Arab. His most celebrated students are Ahmad b. al-Suhrawardi and Yahya al-Sufi. \n\nHe became a much-celebrated calligrapher across the Arab-speaking world. His school became the model followed by Persian and Ottoman calligraphers for centuries. In the second half of the 13th-century, he gained the honorific, \"quiblat al-kuttab\" [cynosure of the calligraphers]. \n\nHis output was prolific. Although, he is said to have copied the Qur'an more than a thousand times, problems with attributing his work, may have contributed to exaggerated estimates. Other sources suggest that he produced 364 copies of the Q'ran. He was the last of the great medieval calligraphers.\n\n"}
