{"id": "614484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614484", "title": "Academic freedom", "text": "Academic freedom\n\nAcademic freedom is the conviction that the freedom of inquiry by faculty members is essential to the mission of the academy as well as the principles of academia, and that scholars should have freedom to teach or communicate ideas or facts (including those that are inconvenient to external political groups or to authorities) without being targeted for repression, job loss, or imprisonment.\n\nAcademic freedom is a contested issue and, therefore, has limitations in practice. In the United States, for example, according to the widely recognized \"1940 Statement on Academic Freedom and Tenure\" of the American Association of University Professors, teachers should be careful to avoid controversial matters that are unrelated to the subject discussed. When they speak or write in public, they are free to express their opinions without fear from institutional censorship or discipline, but they should show restraint and clearly indicate that they are not speaking for their institution. Academic tenure protects academic freedom by ensuring that teachers can be fired only for causes such as gross professional incompetence or behavior that evokes condemnation from the academic community itself.\n\nAlthough the notion of academic freedom has a long implicit history, the idea was first clearly formulated in response to the encroachments of the totalitarian state on science and academia in general for the furtherance of its own goals. For instance, in the Soviet Union, scientific research was brought under strict political control in the 1930s. A number of research areas were declared \"bourgeois pseudoscience\" and forbidden, notably genetics (see \"Lysenkoism\") and sociology. The trend toward subjugating science to the interests of the state also had proponents in the West, including the influential Marxist John Desmond Bernal, who published \"The Social Function of Science\" in 1939.\n\nIn contrast to this approach, Michael Polanyi argued that a structure of liberty is essential for the advancement of science – that the freedom to pursue science for its own sake is a prerequisite for the production of knowledge through peer review and the scientific method.\n\nIn 1936, as a consequence of an invitation to give lectures for the Ministry of Heavy Industry in the USSR, Polanyi met Bukharin, who told him that in socialist societies all scientific research is directed to accord with the needs of the latest five-year plan. Demands in Britain for centrally planned scientific research led Polanyi, together with John Baker, to found the influential Society for Freedom in Science. The Society promoted a liberal conception of science as free enquiry against the instrumental view that science should exist primarily to serve the needs of society.\n\nIn a series of articles, re-published in \"The Contempt of Freedom\" (1940) and \"The Logic of Liberty\" (1951), Polanyi claimed that co-operation amongst scientists is analogous to the way in which agents co-ordinate themselves within a free market. Just as consumers in a free market determine the value of products, science is a spontaneous order that arises as a consequence of open debate amongst specialists. Science can therefore only flourish when scientists have the liberty to pursue truth as an end in itself:\n\n[S]cientists, freely making their own choice of problems and pursuing them in the light of their own personal judgment, are in fact co-operating as members of a closely knit organization.\n\nSuch self-co-ordination of independent initiatives leads to a joint result which is unpremeditated by any of those who bring it about.\n\nAny attempt to organize the group ... under a single authority would eliminate their independent initiatives, and thus reduce their joint effectiveness to that of the single person directing them from the centre. It would, in effect, paralyse their co-operation.\nProponents of academic freedom believe that the freedom of inquiry by students and faculty members is essential to the mission of the academy. They argue that academic communities are repeatedly targeted for repression due to their ability to shape and control the flow of information. When scholars attempt to teach or communicate ideas or facts that are inconvenient to external political groups or to authorities, they may find themselves targeted for public vilification, job loss, imprisonment, or even death. For example, in North Africa, a professor of public health discovered that his country's infant mortality rate was higher than government figures indicated. He lost his job and was imprisoned.\n\nThe fate of biology in the Soviet Union is also cited as a reason why society has an interest in protecting academic freedom. A Soviet biologist Trofim Lysenko rejected Western science – then focused primarily on making advances in theoretical genetics, based on research with the fruit fly (\"Drosophila melanogaster\") – and proposed a more socially relevant approach to farming that was based on the collectivist principles of dialectical materialism. (Lysenko called this \"Michurinism\", but it is more popularly known today as Lysenkoism.) Lysenko's ideas proved appealing to the Soviet leadership, in part because of their value as propaganda, and he was ultimately made director of the Soviet Academy of Agricultural Sciences. Subsequently, Lysenko directed a purge of scientists who professed \"harmful ideas\", resulting in the expulsion, imprisonment, or death of hundreds of Soviet scientists. Lysenko's ideas were then implemented on collectivised farms in the Soviet Union and China. Famines that resulted partly from Lysenko's influence are believed to have killed 30 million people in China alone.\n\nAFAF (Academics For Academic Freedom) of the United Kingdom is a campaign for lecturers, academic staff and researchers who want to make a public statement in favour of free enquiry and free expression. Their statement of Academic Freedom has two main principles:\n\n\nAFAF and those who agree with its principles believe that it is important for academics to be able not only to express their opinions, but also to put them to scrutiny and to open further debate. They are against the idea of telling the public Platonic \"noble lies\" and believe that people need not be protected from radical views.\n\nThe concept of academic freedom as a right of faculty members is an established part of most legal systems. Different from the United States, where academic freedom is derived from the guarantee of free speech under the First Amendment, constitutions of other countries (and particularly of civil law jurisdictions) typically grant a separate right to free learning, teaching, and research.\n\nDuring the interwar years (cir. 1919–1939) Canadian academics were informally expected to be apolitical, lest they bring trouble to their respective universities who, at the time, were very much dependent upon provincial government grants. As well, many Canadian academics of the time considered their position to be remote from the world of politics and felt they had no place getting involved in political issues. However, with the increase of socialist activity in Canada during the Great Depression, due to the rise of social gospel ideology, some left-wing academics began taking active part in contemporary political issues outside of the university. Thus, individuals such as Frank H. Underhill at the University of Toronto and other members or affiliates with the League for Social Reconstruction or the socialist movement in Canada who held academic positions began to find themselves in precarious positions with their university employers. Frank H. Underhill, for example, faced criticism from within and without academia and near expulsion from his university position for his public political comments and his involvement with the League for Social Reconstruction and the Co-Operative Commonwealth Federation. According to Michiel Horn this era marked, \"...a relaxation of the unwritten controls under which many Canadian professors had previously worked. The nature of the institutions, natural caution and professional pre-occupation had before the Depression inhibited the professoriate. None of these conditions changed quickly, but even at the provincial universities there were brave souls in the 1930s who claimed, with varying success, the right publicly to discuss controversial subjects and express opinions about them.\"\n\nProfessors at public French universities and researchers in public research laboratories are expected, as are all civil servants, to behave in a neutral manner and to not favor any particular political or religious point of view during the course of their duties. However, the academic freedom of university professors is a fundamental principle recognized by the laws of the Republic, as defined by the Constitutional Council; furthermore, statute law declares about higher education that \"teachers-researchers (university professors and assistant professors), researchers and teachers are fully independent and enjoy full freedom of speech in the course of their research and teaching activities, provided they respect, following university traditions and the dispositions of this code, principles of tolerance and objectivity\". The nomination and promotion of professors is largely done through a process of peer review rather than through normal administrative procedures.\n\nThe German Constitution () specifically grants academic freedom: \"Art and science, research and teaching are free. Freedom of teaching does not absolve from loyalty to the constitution\" (Art. 5, para. 3). In a tradition reaching back to the 19th century, jurisdiction has understood this right as one to teach ('), study ('), and conduct research (') freely, although the last concept has sometimes been taken as a cover term for the first two. ' embraces the right of professors to determine the content of their lectures and to publish the results of their research without prior approval.\n\nSince professors through their \"Habilitation\" receive the right to teach () in a particular academic field, academic freedom is deemed to cover at least the entirety of this field. ' means a student's right to determine an individual course of study. Finally, ' permits academic self-governance and grants the university control of its internal affairs.\n\nIn Mauritius the academic staff have the following rights, which are stated in the Chapter II Constitution of Mauritius: the protection of Freedom of Conscience, Protection of Freedom of Expression, Protection of Freedom of Assembly and Association, Protection of Freedom to Establish schools and the Protection from Discrimination. In a 2012 paper on the University of Mauritius the author states that although there are no records of abuse of human rights or freedom of the state \"subtle threats to freedom of expression do exist, especially with regard to criticisms of ruling political parties and their leaders as well as religious groups.\" The government of Mauritius endorses the practice of academic freedom in the tertiary institutions of the country. Academic freedom became a public issue in May 2009 when the University of Mauritius spoke out against the previous vice chancellor Professor I. Fagoonee, who had forwarded a circular sent by the Ministry of Education to academics. This circular targeted public officers and required them to consult their superiors before speaking to the press. According to the paper, academics were annoyed by the fact that the vice chancellor had endorsed the circular by sending it to them when it was addressed to public officers. In an interview the vice- chancellor stated that while academics were free to speak to the press they should not compromise university policy or government policy. An academic spoke to the prime minister and the issue was eventually taken up to parliament. The vice chancellor was then required to step down. In return the government publicly endorsed the practice of academic freedom.\n\nThe institutional bureaucracy and the dependence on the state for funds has restricted the freedom of academics to criticize government policy. An interview with Dr. Kasenally an educator at the University of Mauritius expresses her views on academic freedom in the university. The professor states that in 1970s to 1980s the university was at the forefront of debates. But in the 1990s the university stepped away from controversial debates. In 1986, the rights of academics to engage in politics was removed to curtail academic freedom. Academics at the University of Mauritius have thus been encouraged to not express their views or ideas especially if the views oppose those of the management or government. While there have been no cases of arrests or extreme detention of academics, there is a fear that it would hinder their career progress especially at the level of a promotion thus, the academics try to avoid participating in controversial debates.\n\nIn the Netherlands the academic freedom is limited. In November 1985 the Dutch Ministry of Education published a policy paper titled \"Higher Education: Autonomy and Quality\". This paper had a proposal that steered away from traditional education and informed that the future of higher education sector should not be regulated by the central government. In 1992 the Law of Higher Education and Research (Wet op het hoger onderwijs en wetenschappelijk onderzoek, article 1.6) was published and became effective in 1993. However, this law governs only certain institutions.\n\nThe 1987 Philippine Constitution states that, \"Academic Freedom shall be enjoyed in all institutions of higher learning.\" Philippine jurisprudence and courts of law, including the Philippine Supreme Court tend to reflexively defer to the institutional autonomy of higher institutions of learning in determining academic decisions with respect to the outcomes of individual cases filed in the courts regarding the abuse of Academic Freedom by professors, despite the individual merits or demerits of any cases. A closely watched case was the controversial case of University of the Philippines at Diliman Sociology Professor Sarah Raymundo who was not granted tenure due to an appeal by the minority dissenting vote within the faculty of the Sociology Department. This decision was sustained upon appeal by the dissenting faculty and Professor Raymundo to the University of the Philippines at Diliman Chancellor Sergio S. Cao; and though the case was elevated to University of the Philippines System President Emerlinda R. Roman, Roman denied the appeal which was elevated by Professor Raymundo to the University's Board of Regents for decision and the BOR granted her request for tenure. A major bone of contention among the supporters of Professor Raymundo was not to question the institutional Academic Freedom of the Department in not granting her tenure, but in asking for transparency in how the Academic Freedom of the department was exercised, in keeping with traditions within the University of the Philippines in providing a basis that may be subject to peer review, for Academic decisions made under the mantle of Academic Freedom.\n\nThe South African Constitution of 1996 offers protection of academic freedom and the freedom of scholarly research. Academic freedom became a main principle for higher education by 1997. Three main threats are believed to jeopardize academic freedom: government regulations, excessive influence of private sector sponsor on a university, and limitations of freedom of speech in universities.\n\nThere have been an abundance of scandals over the restricted academic freedom at a number of universities in South Africa. The University of KwaZulu-Natal received fame over its restricted academic freedom and the scandal that occurred in 2007. In this scandal a sociology lecturer, Fazel Khan was fired in April 2007 for \"bringing the university into disrepute\" after he released information to the news media. According to Khan he had been airbrushed from a photograph in a campus publication because of his participation in a staff strike last February. In light of this scandal the South African Council on Higher Education released a report stating that the state is influencing academic freedom. In particular, public universities are more susceptible to political pressure because they receive funds from the public.\n\nAcademic freedom pertains to forms of expression by academic staff engaged in scholarship and is defined by the Education Act 1989 (s161(2)) as:\na) The freedom of academic staff and students, within the law, to question and test received wisdom, to put forward new ideas and to state controversial or unpopular opinions; \nb) The freedom of academic staff and students to engage in research; \nc) The freedom of the University and its staff to regulate the subject matter of courses taught at the University; \nd) The freedom of the University and its staff to teach and assess students in the manner they consider best promotes learning; and \ne) The freedom of the University through its Council and Vice-Chancellor to appoint its own staff. \nIn the United States, academic freedom is generally taken as the notion of academic freedom defined by the \"1940 Statement of Principles on Academic Freedom and Tenure\", jointly authored by the American Association of University Professors (AAUP) and the Association of American Colleges (AAC, now the Association of American Colleges and Universities). These principles state that \"Teachers are entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their subject.\" The statement also permits institutions to impose \"limitations of academic freedom because of religious or other aims\", so long as they are \"clearly stated in writing at the time of the appointment\". The Principles have only the character of private pronouncements, not that of binding law.\n\nSeven regional accreditors work with American colleges and universities, including private and religious institutions, to implement this standard. Additionally, the AAUP, which is not an accrediting body, works with these same institutions. The AAUP does not always agree with the regional accrediting bodies on the standards of protection of academic freedom and tenure. The AAUP lists (censures) those colleges and universities which it has found, after its own investigations, to violate these principles. There is some case law in the United States that holds that teachers are limited in their academic freedom.\n\nAcademic freedom has recently come under attack, but some people work to defend the first amendment on campuses.\n\nA prominent feature of the English university concept is the freedom to appoint faculty, set standards and admit students. This ideal may be better described as institutional autonomy and is distinct from whatever freedom is granted to students and faculty by the institution.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States said that academic freedom means a university can \"determine for itself on academic grounds:\n\n\nIn a 2008 case, a federal court in Virginia ruled that professors have no academic freedom; \"all\" academic freedom resides with the university or college. In that case, \"Stronach v. Virginia State University\", a district court judge held \"that no constitutional right to academic freedom exists that would prohibit senior (university) officials from changing a grade given by (a professor) to one of his students.\" The court relied on mandatory precedent of the U.S. Supreme Court case of \"Sweezy v. New Hampshire\" and a case from the fourth circuit court of appeals. The \"Stronach\" court also relied on persuasive cases from several circuits of the courts of appeals, including the first, third, and seventh circuits. That court distinguished the situation when a university attempts to coerce a professor into changing a grade, which is clearly in violation of the First Amendment, from when university officials may, in their discretionary authority, change the grade upon appeal by a student. The \"Stronach\" case has gotten significant attention in the academic community as an important precedent.\n\nAcademic freedom and free speech rights are not coextensive, although this widely accepted view has been recently challenged by an \"institutionalist\" perspective on the First Amendment. Academic freedom involves more than speech rights; for example, it includes the right to determine what is taught in the classroom. The AAUP gives teachers a set of guidelines to follow when their ideas are considered threatening to religious, political, or social agendas. When teachers speak or write in public, whether via social media or in academic journals, they are able to articulate their own opinions without the fear from institutional restriction or punishment, but they are encouraged to show restraint and clearly specify that they are not speaking for their institution. In practice, academic freedom is protected by institutional rules and regulations, letters of appointment, faculty handbooks, collective bargaining agreements, and academic custom.\n\nIn the U.S., the freedom of speech is guaranteed by the First Amendment, which states that \"Congress shall make no law... abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press...\" By extension, the First Amendment applies to all governmental institutions, including public universities. The U.S. Supreme Court has consistently held that academic freedom is a First Amendment right at \"public\" institutions. However, The United States' First Amendment has generally been held to not apply to \"private\" institutions, including religious institutions. These private institutions may honor freedom of speech and academic freedom at their discretion.\n\nAcademic freedom is also associated with a movement to introduce intelligent design as an alternative explanation to evolution in US public schools. Supporters claim that academic institutions need to fairly represent all possible explanations for the observed biodiversity on Earth, rather than implying no alternatives to evolutionary theory exist.\n\nCritics of the movement claim intelligent design is religiously motivated pseudoscience and cannot be allowed into the curriculum of US public schools due to the First Amendment to the United States Constitution, often citing \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" as legal precedent. They also reject the allegations of discrimination against proponents of intelligent design, of which investigation showed no evidence.\n\nA number of \"academic freedom bills\" have been introduced in state legislatures in the United States between 2004 and 2008. The bills were based largely upon language drafted by the Discovery Institute, the hub of the Intelligent Design movement, and derive from language originally drafted for the Santorum Amendment in the United States Senate. According to the Wall Street Journal, the common goal of these bills is to expose more students to articles and videos that undercut evolution, most of which are produced by advocates of intelligent design or biblical creationism. The American Association of University Professors has reaffirmed its opposition to these academic freedom bills, including any portrayal of creationism as a scientifically credible alternative and any misrepresentation of evolution as scientifically controversial. , only the Louisiana bill has been successfully passed into law.\n\nIn the 20th Century and particularly the 1950s during McCarthyism, there was much public date in print on Communism's role in academic freedom, e.g., Sidney Hook's \"Heresy, Yes–Conspiracy, No\" and Whittaker Chambers' \"Is Academic Freedom in Danger?\" among many other books and articles.\n\n\"Students for Academic Freedom\" (SAF) was founded and is sponsored by the David Horowitz Freedom Center to advocate against a perceived liberal bias in U.S. colleges and universities. The organization collected many statements from college students complaining that some of their professors were disregarding their responsibility to keep unrelated controversial material out of their classes and were instead teaching their subjects from an ideological point of view. SAF drafted model legislation, called the Academic Bill of Rights, which has been introduced in several state legislatures and the U.S. House of Representatives. The Academic Bill of Rights is based on the Declaration of Principles on Academic Freedom and Academic Tenure as published by the American Association of University Professors in 1915, and modified in 1940 and 1970.\n\nAccording to Students for Academic Freedom, academic freedom is \"the freedom to teach and to learn.\" They contend that academic freedom promotes \"intellectual diversity\" and helps achieve a university's primary goals, i.e., \"the pursuit of truth, the discovery of new knowledge through scholarship and research, the study and reasoned criticism of intellectual and cultural traditions, the teaching and general development of students to help them become creative individuals and productive citizens of a pluralistic democracy, and the transmission of knowledge and learning to a society at large.\" They feel that, in the past forty years, the principles as defined in the AAUP Declaration have become something of a dead letter, and that an entrenched class of tenured radical leftists is blocking all efforts to restore those principles. In an attempt to override such opposition, the Academic Bill of Rights calls for state and judicial regulation of colleges. Such regulation would ensure that:\n\nOpponents claim that such a bill would actually restrict academic freedom, by granting politically motivated legislators and judges the right to shape the nature and focus of scholarly concerns. According to the American Association of University Professors, the Academic Bill of Rights is, despite its title, an attack on the very concept of academic freedom itself: \"A fundamental premise of academic freedom is that decisions concerning the quality of scholarship and teaching are to be made by reference to the standards of the academic profession, as interpreted and applied by the community of scholars who are qualified by expertise and training to establish such standards.\" The Academic Bill of Rights directs universities to implement the principle of neutrality by requiring the appointment of faculty \"with a view toward fostering a plurality of methodologies and perspectives,\" an approach they claim is problematic because \"It invites diversity to be measured by political standards that diverge from the academic criteria of the scholarly profession.\" For example,\"no department of political theory ought to be obligated to establish 'a plurality of methodologies and perspectives' by appointing a professor of Nazi political philosophy.\" Concurring, the president of Appalachian Bible College in West Virginia fears that the Academic Bill of Rights \"would inhibit his college's efforts to provide a faith-based education and would put pressure on the college to hire professors... who espouse views contrary to those of the institution.\"\n\nPontifical universities around the world such as The Catholic University of America, the Pontifical University of Saint Thomas Aquinas, \"Angelicum\" in Rome, the Université catholique de Louvain in Belgium, and the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru depend for their status as pontifical universities and for the terms of academic freedom on the Pope through the Congregation for Catholic Education. The terms of academic freedom at ecclesiastical institutions of education are outlined in the apostolic constitution \"Sapientia Christiana\".\n\nWhile some controversies of academic freedom are reflected in proposed laws that would affect large numbers of students through entire regions, many cases involve individual academics that express unpopular opinions or share politically unfavorable information. These individual cases may receive widespread attention and periodically test the limits of, and support for, academic freedom. Several of these specific cases are also the foundations for later legislature.\n\nThe Bassett Affair at Duke University in North Carolina in the early 20th century was an important event in the history of academic freedom. In October 1903, Professor John Spencer Bassett publicly praised Booker T. Washington and drew attention to the racism and white supremacist behavior of the Democratic party. Many media reports castigated Bassett, and several major newspapers published opinion pieces attacking him and demanding his termination. On December 1, 1903, the entire faculty of the college threatened to resign \"en masse\" if the board gave into political pressures and asked Bassett to resign. He resigned after \"parents were urged to withdraw their children from the college and churchmen were encouraged not to recommend the college to perspective students.\" President Teddy Roosevelt later praised Bassett for his willingness to express the truth as he saw it.\n\nIn 1929, Experimental Psychology Professor Max Friedrich Meyer and Sociology Assistant Professor Harmon O. DeGraff were dismissed from their positions at the University of Missouri for advising student Orval Hobart Mowrer regarding distribution of a questionnaire which inquired about attitudes towards partner's sexual tendencies, modern views of marriage, divorce, extramarital sexual relations, and cohabitation. The university was subsequently censured by the American Association of University Professors in an early case regarding academic freedom due a tenured professor.\n\nIn a famous case investigated by the American Association of University Professors, President Hamilton Holt of Rollins College in March 1933 fired John Andrew Rice, an atheist scholar and unorthodox teacher, whom Holt had hired, along with three other \"golden personalities\" in his push to put Rollins on the cutting edge of innovative education. Holt then required all professors to make a \"loyalty pledge\" to keep their jobs. The American Association of University Professors censured Rollins. Rice and the three other \"golden personalities\", who were all dismissed for refusing to make the loyalty pledge, founded Black Mountain College.\n\nIn 1978, a Nobel prize-winning physicist, electronics inventor, and electrical engineering professor, William Shockley, was concerned about relatively high reproductive rates among people of African descent, because he believed that genetics doomed black people to be intellectually inferior to white people. He stated that he believed his work on race to be more important than his work leading to the Nobel prize. He was strongly criticized for this stance, which raised some concerns about whether criticism of unpopular views of racial differences suppressed academic freedom.\n\nIn 2006, Lawrence Summers, while president of Harvard University, led a discussion that was intended to identify the reasons why fewer women chose to study science and mathematics at advanced levels. He suggested that the possibility of intrinsic gender differences in terms of talent for science and mathematics should be explored. He became the target of considerable public backlash. His critics were, in turn, accused of attempting to suppress academic freedom. Due to the adverse reception to his comments, he resigned after a five-year tenure. Another significant factor of his resignation was several votes of no-confidence placed by the deans of schools, notably multiple professors in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences.\n\nThe 2006 scandal in which several members of the Duke Lacrosse team were falsely accused of rape raised serious criticisms against exploitation of academic freedom by the university and its faculty to press judgement and deny due process to the three players accused. This case was very controversial due to the rape culture it pertains to.\n\nIn 2006 trade union leader and sociologist Fazel Khan was fired from the University of KwaZulu-Natal in Durban, South Africa after taking a leadership role in a strike. In 2008 international concern was also expressed at attempts to discipline two other academics at the same university – Nithiya Chetty and John van der Berg – for expressing concern about academic freedom at the university.\n\nJ. Michael Bailey wrote a popular science-style book, \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\", which promotes Ray Blanchard's theory that transwomen are motivated by sexuality, and dismisses the \"woman trapped in a man's body\" concept of transsexuality. In 2007 in an effort to discredit his book, some activists filed formal complaints with Northwestern University accusing Bailey of conducting regulated human research. They also filed a complaint with Illinois state regulators, requesting that they investigate Bailey for practicing psychology without a license. Regulators dismissed the complaint. Other academics have also accused him of sexual misconduct.\n\nIn 2009 Thio Li-ann withdrew from an appointment at New York University School of Law after controversy erupted about some anti-gay remarks she had made, prompting a discussion of academic freedom within the law school. Subsequently, Li-ann was asked to step down from her position in the NYU Law School.\n\nIn 2009 the University of California at Santa Barbara charged William I. Robinson with anti-Semitism after he circulated an email to his class containing photographs and paragraphs of the Holocaust juxtaposed to those of the Gaza Strip. Robinson was fired from the university, but after charges were dropped after a worldwide campaign against the management of the university.\n\nThe University of the Philippines at Diliman affair where controversy erupted after Professor Gerardo A. Agulto of the College of Business Administration was sued by MBA graduate student Chanda R. Shahani for a nominal amount in damages for failing him several times in the Strategic Management portion of the Comprehensive Examination. Agulto refused to give a detailed basis for his grades and instead invoked Academic Freedom while Shahani argued in court that Academic Freedom could not be invoked without a rational basis in grading a student.\n\nIn 2013 the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign offered Steven Salaita a faculty position in American Indian studies but then withdrew the offer in 2014, after reviewing some of his comments on Twitter about Israel.\n\nProfessor David Guth of Kansas University was persecuted by the Kansas Board of Regents due to his tweet, from a personal account linked to the university, regarding the shootings which stated, \"#NavyYardShooting The blood is on the hands of the #NRA. Next time, let it be YOUR sons and daughters. Shame on you. May God damn you.\" Following the controversial comments, Kansas University suspended, but ultimately allowed him to come back. Because of this incident and the moral qualms it raised, the Kansas Board of Regents passed a new policy regarding social media. This new legislature allowed universities to discipline or terminate employees who used social media in ways \"contrary to the best interests of the university.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35321461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35321461", "title": "Canonical cover", "text": "Canonical cover\n\nA canonical cover formula_1 for F (a set of functional dependencies on a relation scheme) is a set of dependencies such that F logically implies all dependencies in formula_1, and formula_1 logically implies all dependencies in F.\n\nThe set formula_1 has two important properties:\n\nA canonical cover is not unique for a given set of functional dependencies, therefore one set F can have multiple covers formula_1.\n\n"}
{"id": "12085294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12085294", "title": "Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act", "text": "Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act\n\nThe Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act of the Canadian province of Alberta was the first law of its type to impose greenhouse gas cuts on large industrial facilities.\n\nStarting from July 1, 2007, Alberta facilities that emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases per year will be required to reduce their emissions intensity by 12 percent under the Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act.\n\nCompanies have three ways to meet their reductions: they can make operating improvements, buy an Alberta-based credit, or contribute to the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund.\n\nThe regulations apply to about 100 large facilities which emit more than 100,000 tonnes of greenhouse gases a year. Those facilities account for about 70 per cent of Alberta's industrial greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nThe annual cost of compliance is estimated to be $177 million - or less than one tenth of one per cent of Alberta's nominal GDP ($242 billion in 2006).\n\nA facility can purchase credits from large emitters that have reduced their emissions intensity beyond their 12 percent target. They can also purchase credits from facilities whose emissions are below the 100,000-tonne threshold but are voluntarily reducing their emissions. \nThe projects must have legitimate greenhouse gas reductions in the province.\n\nA third option would be for companies to pay $15 for every tonne over their reduction target. The money will be put into the Climate Change and Emissions Management Fund, which will be directed to strategic projects or transformative technology aimed at reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the province.\n\nAccording to the Climate Change and Emissions Management Amendment Act, funds may be used only for purposes related to reducing emissions of specified gases or improving Alberta's ability to adapt to climate change; including without limitation, the following purposes:\n\n"}
{"id": "2507173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2507173", "title": "Communalness", "text": "Communalness\n\nCommunalness, as suggested by Robert A. Freitas Jr., is a level of an emergent phenomenon which originates from electronic sentience, and represents a broader mode of thinking than just normal consciousness. While consciousness is limited to the individual, communalness describes a complex organization of numerous individuals which on a higher level is tightly connected to each other. Such an organization would maybe have the same intimate awareness of its own existence as a whole as people have consciousness of their own bodies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8837050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837050", "title": "Copernican heliocentrism", "text": "Copernican heliocentrism\n\nCopernican heliocentrism is the name given to the astronomical model developed by Nicolaus Copernicus and published in 1543. It positioned the Sun near the center of the Universe, motionless, with Earth and the other planets orbiting around it in circular paths modified by epicycles and at uniform speeds. The Copernican model displaced the geocentric model of the Ptolemy that had prevailed for centuries, placing Earth at the center of the Universe. It is often regarded as the launching point to modern astronomy and the Scientific Revolution.\n\nCopernicus was aware that the ancient Greek Aristarchus had already proposed a heliocentric theory, and cited him as a proponent of it in a reference that was deleted before publication, but there is no evidence that Copernicus had knowledge of, or access to, the specific details of Aristarchus' theory. Although he had circulated an outline of his own heliocentric theory to colleagues sometime before 1514, he did not decide to publish it until he was urged to do so late in his life by his pupil Rheticus. Copernicus's challenge was to present a practical alternative to the Ptolemaic model by more elegantly and accurately determining the length of a solar year while preserving the metaphysical implications of a mathematically ordered cosmos. Thus, his heliocentric model retained several of the Ptolemaic elements causing the inaccuracies, such as the planets' circular orbits, epicycles, and uniform speeds, while at the same time re-introducing such innovations as:\n\nPhilolaus (4th century BCE) was one of the first to hypothesize movement of the Earth, probably inspired by Pythagoras' theories about a spherical, moving globe. Aristarchus of Samos in the 3rd century BCE had developed some theories of Heraclides Ponticus (speaking of a revolution by Earth on its axis) to propose what was, so far as is known, the first serious model of a heliocentric solar system. Though his original text has been lost, a reference in Archimedes' book \"The Sand Reckoner\" (\"Archimedis Syracusani Arenarius & Dimensio Circuli\") describes a work by Aristarchus in which he advanced the heliocentric model. Archimedes wrote:\n\nIt is a common idea that the heliocentric view was rejected by the contemporaries of Aristarchus. This is due to Gilles Ménage's translation of a passage from Plutarch's \"On the Apparent Face in the Orb of the Moon\". Plutarch reported that Cleanthes (a contemporary of Aristarchus and head of the Stoics) as a worshipper of the Sun and opponent to the heliocentric model, was jokingly told by Aristarchus that he should be charged with impiety. Gilles Ménage, shortly after the trials of Galileo and Giordano Bruno, amended an accusative (identifying the object of the verb) with a nominative (the subject of the sentence), and vice versa, so that the impiety accusation fell over the heliocentric sustainer. The resulting misconception of an isolated and persecuted Aristarchus is still transmitted today.\n\nSeveral Islamic astronomers questioned the Earth's apparent immobility, and centrality within the universe. Some accepted that the earth rotates around its axis, such as Abu Sa'id al-Sijzi (d. circa 1020). who invented an astrolabe based on a belief held by some of his contemporaries \"that the motion we see is due to the Earth's movement and not to that of the sky.\" The prevalence of this view is further confirmed by a reference from an Arabic work in the 13th century which states: According to the geometers [or engineers] (\"muhandisīn\"), the earth is in constant circular motion, and what appears to be the motion of the heavens is actually due to the motion of the earth and not the stars. In the 12th century, Nur ad-Din al-Bitruji proposed a complete alternative to the Ptolemaic system (although not heliocentric). He declared the Ptolemaic system as an imaginary model, successful at predicting planetary positions, but not real or physical. Al-Btiruji's alternative system spread through most of Europe during the 13th century.\n\nCopernicus cited Aristarchus and Philolaus in an early manuscript of his book which survives, stating: \"Philolaus believed in the mobility of the earth, and some even say that Aristarchus of Samos was of that opinion.\" For reasons unknown (although possibly out of reluctance to quote pre-Christian sources), he did not include this passage in the publication of his book. Inspiration came to Copernicus not from observation of the planets, but from reading two authors. In Cicero he found an account of the theory of Hicetas. Plutarch provided an account of the Pythagoreans Heraclides Ponticus, Philolaus, and Ecphantes. These authors had proposed a moving Earth, which did not, however, revolve around a central sun. When Copernicus' book was published, it contained an unauthorized preface by the Lutheran theologian Andreas Osiander. This cleric stated that Copernicus wrote his heliocentric account of the Earth's movement as a mere mathematical hypothesis, not as an account that contained truth or even probability. Since Copernicus' hypothesis was believed to contradict the Old Testament account of the Sun's movement around the Earth (Joshua 10:12-13), this was apparently written to soften any religious backlash against the book. However, there is no evidence that Copernicus himself considered the heliocentric model as merely mathematically convenient, separate from reality.\n\nMathematical techniques developed in the 13th to 14th centuries by the Arab and Persian astronomers Mo'ayyeduddin al-Urdi, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, and Ibn al-Shatir for geocentric models of planetary motions closely resemble some of those used later by Copernicus in his heliocentric models. Copernicus used what is now known as the Urdi lemma and the Tusi couple in the same planetary models as found in Arabic sources. Furthermore, the exact replacement of the equant by two epicycles used by Copernicus in the \"Commentariolus\" was found in an earlier work by Ibn al-Shatir (d. c. 1375) of Damascus. Ibn al-Shatir's lunar and Mercury models are also identical to those of Copernicus. This has led some scholars to argue that Copernicus must have had access to some yet to be identified work on the ideas of those earlier astronomers. \nHowever, no likely candidate for this conjectured work has yet come to light, and other scholars have argued that Copernicus could well have developed these ideas independently of the late Islamic tradition. Nevertheless, Copernicus cited some of the Islamic astronomers whose theories and observations he used in \"De Revolutionibus\", namely al-Battani, Thabit ibn Qurra, al-Zarqali, Averroes, and al-Bitruji.\n\nEuropean scholars were well aware of the problems with Ptolemaic astronomy since the 13th century. The debate was precipitated by the reception by Averroes' criticism of Ptolemy, and it was again revived by the recovery of Ptolemy's text and its translation into Latin in the mid-15th century. Otto E. Neugebauer in 1957 argued that the debate in 15th-century Latin scholarship must also have been informed by the criticism of Ptolemy produced after Averroes, by the Ilkhanid-era (13th to 14th centuries) Persian school of astronomy associated with the \nMaragheh observatory (especially the works of Al-Urdi, Al-Tusi and Ibn al-Shatir).\n\nThe state of the question as received by Copernicus is summarized in the \"Theoricae novae planetarum\" by Georg von Peuerbach, compiled from lecture notes by Peuerbach's student Regiomontanus in 1454 but printed only in 1472.\nPeuerbach attempts to give a new, mathematically more elegant presentation of Ptolemy's system, but he does not arrive at heliocentrism. \nRegiomontanus himself was the teacher of Domenico Maria Novara da Ferrara, who was in turn the teacher of Copernicus.\n\nThere is a possibility that Regiomontanus already arrived at a theory of heliocentrism before his death in 1476, as he paid particular attention to the heliocentric theory of Aristarchus in a late work, and mentions the \"motion of the Earth\" in a letter.\n\nThe prevailing astronomical model of the cosmos in Europe in the 1,400 years leading up to the 16th century was that created by the Roman citizen Claudius Ptolemy in his \"Almagest\", dating from about 150 A.D. Throughout the Middle Ages it was spoken of as the authoritative text on astronomy, although its author remained a little understood figure frequently mistaken as one of the Ptolemaic rulers of Egypt. The Ptolemaic system drew on many previous theories that viewed Earth as a stationary center of the universe. Stars were embedded in a large outer sphere which rotated relatively rapidly, while the planets dwelt in smaller spheres between—a separate one for each planet. To account for apparent anomalies in this view, such as the apparent retrograde motion of the planets, a system of deferents and epicycles was used. The planet was said to revolve in a small circle (the epicycle) about a center, which itself revolved in a larger circle (the deferent) about a center on or near the Earth.\n\nA complementary theory to Ptolemy's employed homocentric spheres: the spheres within which the planets rotated could themselves rotate somewhat. This theory predated Ptolemy (it was first devised by Eudoxus of Cnidus; by the time of Copernicus it was associated with Averroes). Also popular with astronomers were variations such as eccentrics—by which the rotational axis was offset and not completely at the center.\n\nPtolemy's unique contribution to this theory was the equant—a point about which the center of a planet's epicycle moved with uniform angular velocity, but which was offset from the center of its deferent. This violated one of the fundamental principles of Aristotelian cosmology—namely, that the motions of the planets should be explained in terms of uniform circular motion, and was considered a serious defect by many medieval astronomers. In Copernicus's day, the most up-to-date version of the Ptolemaic system was that of Peurbach (1423–1461) and Regiomontanus (1436–1476).\n\nCopernicus' major work, \"De revolutionibus orbium coelestium\" - \"On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres\" (first edition 1543 in Nuremberg, second edition 1566 in Basel), was published during the year of his death, though he had arrived at his theory several decades earlier. The book marks the beginning of the shift away from a geocentric (and anthropocentric) universe with the Earth at its center. Copernicus held that the Earth is another planet revolving around the fixed sun once a year, and turning on its axis once a day. But while Copernicus put the Sun at the center of the celestial spheres, he did not put it at the exact center of the universe, but near it. Copernicus' system used only uniform circular motions, correcting what was seen by many as the chief inelegance in Ptolemy's system.\n\nThe Copernican model replaced Ptolemy's equant circles with more epicycles. This is the main reason that Copernicus' system had even more epicycles than Ptolemy's. The Copernican system can be summarized in several propositions, as Copernicus himself did in his early \"Commentariolus\" that he handed only to friends probably in the 1510s. The \"little commentary\" was never printed. Its existence was only known indirectly until a copy was discovered in Stockholm around 1880, and another in Vienna a few years later.\nThe major features of Copernican theory are:\n\nIt opened with an originally anonymous preface by Andreas Osiander, a theologian friend of Copernicus, who urged that the theory, which was considered a tool that allows simpler and more accurate calculations, did not necessarily have implications outside the limited realm of astronomy.\n\nCopernicus' actual book began with a letter from his (by then deceased) friend Nikolaus von Schönberg, Cardinal Archbishop of Capua, urging Copernicus to publish his theory. Then, in a lengthy introduction, Copernicus dedicated the book to Pope Paul III, explaining his ostensible motive in writing the book as relating to the inability of earlier astronomers to agree on an adequate theory of the planets, and noting that if his system increased the accuracy of astronomical predictions it would allow the Church to develop a more accurate calendar. At that time, a reform of the Julian Calendar was considered necessary and was one of the major reasons for the Church's interest in astronomy.\n\nThe work itself was then divided into six books:\n\n\nFrom publication until about 1700, few astronomers were convinced by the Copernican system, though the book was relatively widely circulated (around 500 copies of the first and second editions have survived, which is a large number by the scientific standards of the time). Few of Copernicus' contemporaries were ready to concede that the Earth actually moved, although Erasmus Reinhold used Copernicus' parameters to produce the Prutenic Tables. However, these tables translated Copernicus' mathematical methods back into a geocentric system, rejecting heliocentric cosmology on physical and theological grounds. The Prutenic tables came to be preferred by Prussian and German astronomers. The degree of improved accuracy of these tables remains an open question, but their usage of Copernican ideas led to more serious consideration of a heliocentric model. However, even forty-five years after the publication of \"De Revolutionibus\", the astronomer Tycho Brahe went so far as to construct a cosmology precisely equivalent to that of Copernicus, but with the Earth held fixed in the center of the celestial sphere instead of the Sun. It was another generation before a community of practicing astronomers appeared who accepted heliocentric cosmology.\n\nFrom a modern point of view, the Copernican model has a number of advantages. It accurately predicts the relative distances of the planets from the Sun, although this meant abandoning the cherished Aristotelian idea that there is no empty space between the planetary spheres. Copernicus also gave a clear account of the cause of the seasons: that the Earth's axis is not perpendicular to the plane of its orbit. In addition, Copernicus's theory provided a strikingly simple explanation for the apparent retrograde motions of the planets—namely as parallactic displacements resulting from the Earth's motion around the Sun—an important consideration in Johannes Kepler's conviction that the theory was substantially correct. In the heliocentric model the planets' apparent retrograde motions' occurring at opposition to the Sun are a natural consequence of their heliocentric orbits. In the geocentic model, however, these are explained by the ad hoc use of epicycles, whose revolutions are mysteriously tied to that of the Sun's.\n\nHowever, for his contemporaries, the ideas presented by Copernicus were not markedly easier to use than the geocentric theory and did not produce more accurate predictions of planetary positions. Copernicus was aware of this and could not present any observational \"proof\", relying instead on arguments about what would be a more complete and elegant system. The Copernican model appeared to be contrary to common sense and to contradict the Bible. Tycho Brahe's arguments against Copernicus are illustrative of the physical, theological, and even astronomical grounds on which heliocentric cosmology was rejected. Tycho, arguably the most accomplished astronomer of his time, appreciated the elegance of the Copernican system, but objected to the idea of a moving Earth on the basis of physics, astronomy, and religion. The Aristotelian physics of the time (modern Newtonian physics was still a century away) offered no physical explanation for the motion of a massive body like Earth, but could easily explain the motion of heavenly bodies by postulating that they were made of a different sort of substance called aether that moved naturally. So Tycho said that the Copernican system “... expertly and completely circumvents all that is superfluous or discordant in the system of Ptolemy. On no point does it offend the principle of mathematics. Yet it ascribes to the Earth, that hulking, lazy body, unfit for motion, a motion as quick as that of the aethereal torches, and a triple motion at that.” Likewise, Tycho took issue with the vast distances to the stars that Copernicus had assumed in order to explain why the Earth's motion produced no visible changes in the appearance of the fixed stars (known as annual stellar parallax). Tycho had measured the apparent sizes of stars (now known to be illusory – see stellar magnitude), and used geometry to calculate that in order to both have those apparent sizes and be as far away as heliocentrism required, stars would have to be huge (the size of Earth's orbit or larger, and thus much larger than the sun). Regarding this Tycho wrote, “Deduce these things geometrically if you like, and you will see how many absurdities (not to mention others) accompany this assumption [of the motion of the earth] by inference.” He said his Tychonic system, which incorporated Copernican features into a geocentric system, “offended neither the principles of physics nor Holy Scripture”. Thus many astronomers accepted some aspects of Copernicus's theory at the expense of others. His model did have a large influence on later scientists such as Galileo and Johannes Kepler, who adopted, championed and (especially in Kepler's case) sought to improve it. However, in the years following publication of \"de Revolutionibus\", for leading astronomers such as Erasmus Reinhold, the key attraction of Copernicus's ideas was that they reinstated the idea of uniform circular motion for the planets.\n\nDuring the 17th century, several further discoveries eventually led to the wider acceptance of heliocentrism:\n\nIn 1725, James Bradley discovered stellar aberration, an apparent annual motion of stars around small ellipses, and attributed it to the finite speed of light and the motion of Earth in its orbit around the Sun.\n\nIn 1838, Friedrich Bessel made the first successful measurements of annual parallax for the star 61 Cygni, of 0.314 arcseconds; which indicated that the star was 10.3 ly away, close to the currently accepted value of 11.4 ly. He narrowly beat Friedrich Georg Wilhelm Struve and Thomas Henderson, who measured the parallaxes of Vega and Alpha Centauri in the same year.\n\nWhether Copernicus' propositions were \"revolutionary\" or \"conservative\" has been a topic of debate in the historiography of science.\nIn his book \"The Sleepwalkers: A History of Man's Changing Vision of the Universe\" (1959), Arthur Koestler attempted to deconstruct the Copernican \"revolution\" by portraying Copernicus as a coward who was reluctant to publish his work due to a crippling fear of ridicule.\nThomas Kuhn argued that Copernicus only transferred \"some properties to the Sun's many astronomical functions previously attributed to the earth.\"\nOther historians have since argued that Kuhn underestimated what was \"revolutionary\" about Copernicus' work, and emphasized the difficulty Copernicus would have had in putting forward a new astronomical theory relying alone on simplicity in geometry, given that he had no experimental evidence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "87806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87806", "title": "Cornucopia", "text": "Cornucopia\n\nIn classical antiquity, the cornucopia (from Latin \"cornu copiae\"), also called the horn of plenty, was a symbol of abundance and nourishment, commonly a large horn-shaped container overflowing with produce, flowers or nuts.\n\nMythology offers multiple explanations of the origin of the cornucopia. One of the best-known involves the birth and nurturance of the infant Zeus, who had to be hidden from his devouring father Kronus. In a cave on Mount Ida on the island of Crete, baby Zeus was cared for and protected by a number of divine attendants, including the goat Amaltheia (\"Nourishing Goddess\"), who fed him with her milk. The suckling future king of the gods had unusual abilities and strength, and in playing with his nursemaid accidentally broke off one of her horns, which then had the divine power to provide unending nourishment, as the foster mother had to the god.\n\nIn another myth, the cornucopia was created when Heracles (Roman Hercules) wrestled with the river god Achelous and wrenched off one of his horns; river gods were sometimes depicted as horned. This version is represented in the \"Achelous and Hercules\" mural painting by the American Regionalist artist Thomas Hart Benton.\n\nThe cornucopia became the attribute of several Greek and Roman deities, particularly those associated with the harvest, prosperity, or spiritual abundance, such as personifications of Earth (Gaia or Terra); the child Plutus, god of riches and son of the grain goddess Demeter; the nymph Maia; and Fortuna, the goddess of luck, who had the power to grant prosperity. In Roman Imperial cult, abstract Roman deities who fostered peace \"(pax Romana)\" and prosperity were also depicted with a cornucopia, including Abundantia, \"Abundance\" personified, and Annona, goddess of the grain supply to the city of Rome. Hades, the classical ruler of the underworld in the mystery religions, was a giver of agricultural, mineral and spiritual wealth, and in art often holds a cornucopia.\n\nIn modern depictions, the cornucopia is typically a hollow, horn-shaped wicker basket filled with various kinds of festive fruit and vegetables. In most of North America, the cornucopia has come to be associated with Thanksgiving and the harvest. Cornucopia is also the name of the annual November Food and Wine celebration in Whistler, British Columbia, Canada. Two cornucopias are seen in the flag and state seal of Idaho. The Great Seal of North Carolina depicts Liberty standing and Plenty holding a cornucopia. The coat of arms of Colombia, Panama, Peru and Venezuela, and the Coat of Arms of the State of Victoria, Australia, also feature the cornucopia, symbolizing prosperity. \n\nThe motif of the cornucopia is used in the book series \"The Hunger Games\". In the eponymous gladiatorial games described in the series, a large horn-like cache filled with weapons and equipment is placed at the starting point: this cache serves as the focal point of fighting during the games' first minutes, and is even called the \"Cornucopia\". In the film adaptation, the national anthem of Panem, the series' primary setting, is called \"the Horn of Plenty\", which is mentioned several times in the lyrics.\n\nThe horn of plenty is used for body art and at Halloween, as it is a symbol of fertility, fortune and abundance.\n\n"}
{"id": "3133634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3133634", "title": "Customs war", "text": "Customs war\n\nA Customs war, also known as a \"toll war\" or \"tariff war\", is a type of economic conflict between two or more states. In order to pressure one of the states, the other raises taxes or tariffs for some of the products of that state. As a reprisal, the latter state may also increase the tariffs.\n\nOne example of a modern tariff war occurred in the 1920s and 1930s between the Weimar Republic and Poland, in the German–Polish customs war. The Weimar Republic, led by Gustav Stresemann wanted to force Poland, by creating an economic crisis by increasing the tolls for coal and steel products developed there, to give up its territory. As a reprisal, the Poles increased toll rates for many German products. This led to fast development of the port of Gdynia, which was the only way Poland could export its goods to Western Europe without having to transport them through Germany.\n\nIn September 1922 the Fordney–McCumber Tariff (named after Joseph Fordney, chair of the House Ways and Means Committee, and Porter McCumber, chair of the Senate Finance Committee) was signed by U.S. President Warren G. Harding. In the end, the tariff law raised the average American ad valorem tariff rate to 38 percent.\n\nTrading partners complained immediately. Those injured by World War I said that, without access by their exports to the American market, they would not be able to make payments to America on war loans. But others saw that this tariff increase would have broader deleterious effects. Democratic Representative Cordell Hull said, \"Our foreign markets depend both on the efficiency of our production and the tariffs of countries in which we would sell. Our own [high] tariffs are an important factor in each. They injure the former and invite the latter.\"\n\nFive years after the passage of the tariff, American trading partners had raised their own tariffs by a significant degree. France raised its tariffs on automobiles from 45% to 100%, Spain raised tariffs on American goods by 40%, and Germany and Italy raised tariffs on wheat. This customs war is often cited as one of the main causes of the Great Depression.\n\nThe World Trade Organization was created to avoid customs wars, which are considered harmful to the world's economy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8128", "title": "Dialect", "text": "Dialect\n\nThe term dialect (from Latin , , from the Ancient Greek word , , \"discourse\", from , , \"through\" and , , \"I speak\") is used in two distinct ways to refer to two different types of linguistic phenomena:\n\n\nFor example, most of the various regional Romance languages of Italy, often colloquially referred to as Italian \"dialects\", are, in fact, not \"actually\" derived from modern standard Italian, but rather evolved from Vulgar Latin separately and individually from one another and independently of standard Italian, long prior to the diffusion of a national standardized language throughout what is now Italy. These various Latin-derived regional languages are, therefore, in a linguistic sense, not truly \"dialects\" or varieties of the standard Italian language, but are instead better defined as their own separate languages. Conversely, with the spread of standard Italian throughout Italy in the 20th century, regional versions or varieties of standard Italian have developed, generally as a mix of national standard Italian with a substratum of local regional languages and local accents. While \"dialect\" levelling has increased the number of standard Italian speakers and decreased the number of speakers of other languages native to Italy, Italians in different regions have developed variations of standard Italian particular to their region. These variations on standard Italian, known as regional Italian, would thus more appropriately be called \"dialects\" in accordance with the first linguistic definition of \"dialect\", as they are in fact derived partially or mostly from standard Italian.\n\nA dialect is distinguished by its vocabulary, grammar, and pronunciation (phonology, including prosody). Where a distinction can be made only in terms of pronunciation (including prosody, or just prosody itself), the term \"accent\" may be preferred over \"dialect\". Other types of speech varieties include jargons, which are characterized by differences in lexicon (vocabulary); slang; patois; pidgins; and argots. The particular speech patterns used by an individual are termed an idiolect.\n\nA \"standard dialect\" (also known as a standardized dialect or \"standard language\") is a dialect that is supported by institutions. Such institutional support may include government recognition or designation; presentation as being the \"correct\" form of a language in schools; published grammars, dictionaries, and textbooks that set forth a correct spoken and written form; and an extensive formal literature that employs that dialect (prose, poetry, non-fiction, etc.). There may be multiple standard dialects associated with a single language. For example, Standard American English, Standard British English, Standard Canadian English, Standard Indian English, Standard Australian English, and Standard Philippine English may all be said to be standard dialects of the English language.\n\nA nonstandard dialect, like a standard dialect, has a complete vocabulary, grammar, and syntax, but is usually not the beneficiary of institutional support. Examples of a nonstandard English dialect are Southern American English, Western Australian English, New York English, New England English, Mid-Atlantic American or Philadelphia / Baltimore English, Scouse, Brummie, Cockney, and Tyke. The Dialect Test was designed by Joseph Wright to compare different English dialects with each other.\n\nThere is no universally accepted criterion for distinguishing two different languages from two dialects (i.e. varieties) of the same language. A number of rough measures exist, sometimes leading to contradictory results. The distinction is therefore subjective and depends upon the user's frame of reference. For example, there has been discussion about whether or not the Limón Creole English should be considered \"a kind\" of English or a different language. This creole is spoken in the Caribbean coast of Costa Rica (Central America) by descendants of Jamaican people. The position that Costa Rican linguists support depends upon which University they represent.\n\nThe most common, and most purely linguistic, criterion is that of mutual intelligibility: two varieties are said to be dialects of the same language if being a speaker of one variety confers sufficient knowledge to understand and be understood by a speaker of the other; otherwise, they are said to be different languages. However, this definition becomes problematic in the case of dialect continua, in which it may be the case that dialect B is mutually intelligible with both dialect A and dialect C but dialects A and C are not mutually intelligible with each other. In this case, the criterion of mutual intelligibility makes it impossible to decide whether A and C are dialects of the same language or not. The mutual intelligibility criterion also flounders in cases in which a speaker of dialect X can understand a speaker of dialect Y, but not vice versa.\n\nAnother occasionally used criterion for discriminating dialects from languages is the sociolinguistic notion of linguistic authority. According to this definition, two varieties are considered dialects of the same language if (under at least some circumstances) they would defer to the same authority regarding some questions about their language. For instance, to learn the name of a new invention, or an obscure foreign species of plant, speakers of Westphalian and East Franconian German might each consult a German dictionary or ask a German-speaking expert in the subject.\nThus these varieties are said to be dependent on, or heteronomous with respect to, Standard German, which is said to be autonomous.\nIn contrast, speakers in the Netherlands of Low Saxon varieties similar to Westphalian would instead consult a dictionary of Standard Dutch.\nSimilarly, although Yiddish is classified by linguists as a language in the Middle High German group of languages, a Yiddish speaker would consult a different dictionary in such a case.\n\nWithin this framework, W. A. Stewart defined a \"language\" as an autonomous variety together with all the varieties that are heteronomous with respect to it, noting that an essentially equivalent definition had been stated by Charles A. Ferguson and John J. Gumperz in 1960.\nSimilarly, a heteronomous variety may be considered a \"dialect\" of a language defined in this way.\nIn these terms, Danish and Norwegian, though mutually intelligible to a large degree, are considered separate languages.\nIn the framework of Heinz Kloss, these are described as languages by \"ausbau\" (development) rather than by \"abstand\" (separation).\n\nIn other situations, a closely related group of varieties possess considerable (though incomplete) mutual intelligibility, but none dominates the others.\nTo describe this situation, the editors of the \"Handbook of African Languages\" introduced the term \"dialect cluster\".\nDialect clusters were treated as classificatory units at the same level as languages.\nA similar situation, but with a greater degree of mutual unintelligibility, has been termed a \"language cluster\".\n\nIn many societies, however, a particular dialect, often the sociolect of the elite class, comes to be identified as the \"standard\" or \"proper\" version of a language by those seeking to make a social distinction and is contrasted with other varieties. As a result of this, in some contexts, the term \"dialect\" refers specifically to varieties with low social status. In this secondary sense of \"dialect\", language varieties are often called \"dialects\" rather than \"languages\":\n\nThe status of \"language\" is not solely determined by linguistic criteria, but it is also the result of a historical and political development. Romansh came to be a written language, and therefore it is recognized as a language, even though it is very close to the Lombardic alpine dialects. An opposite example is the case of Chinese, whose variations such as Mandarin and Cantonese are often called dialects and not languages in China, despite their mutual unintelligibility.\n\nModern nationalism, as developed especially since the French Revolution, has made the distinction between \"language\" and \"dialect\" an issue of great political importance. A group speaking a separate \"language\" is often seen as having a greater claim to being a separate \"people\", and thus to be more deserving of its own independent state, while a group speaking a \"dialect\" tends to be seen not as \"a people\" in its own right, but as a sub-group, part of a bigger people, which must content itself with regional autonomy. The distinction between language and dialect is thus inevitably made at least as much on a political basis as on a linguistic one, and can lead to great political controversy or even armed conflict.\n\nThe Yiddish linguist Max Weinreich published the expression, \"A shprakh iz a dialekt mit an armey un flot\" (: \"A language is a dialect with an army and navy\") in \"YIVO Bleter\" 25.1, 1945, p. 13. The significance of the political factors in any attempt at answering the question \"what is a language?\" is great enough to cast doubt on whether any strictly linguistic definition, without a socio-cultural approach, is possible. This is illustrated by the frequency with which the army-navy aphorism is cited.\n\nBy the definition most commonly used by linguists, any linguistic variety can be considered a \"dialect\" of \"some\" language—\"everybody speaks a dialect\". According to that interpretation, the criteria above merely serve to distinguish whether two varieties are dialects of the \"same\" language or dialects of \"different\" languages.\n\nThe terms \"language\" and \"dialect\" are not necessarily mutually exclusive, although it is often perceived to be. Thus there is nothing contradictory in the statement \"the \"language\" of the Pennsylvania Dutch is a dialect of German\".\n\nThere are various terms that linguists may use to avoid taking a position on whether the speech of a community is an independent language in its own right or a dialect of another language. Perhaps the most common is \"variety\"; \"lect\" is another. A more general term is \"languoid\", which does not distinguish between dialects, languages, and groups of languages, whether genealogically related or not.\n\nWhen talking about the German language, the term German dialects is only used for the traditional regional varieties. That allows them to be distinguished from the regional varieties of modern standard German.\n\nThe German dialects show a wide spectrum of variation. Some of them are not mutually intelligible. German dialectology traditionally names the major dialect groups after Germanic tribes from which they were assumed to have descended.\n\nThe extent to which the dialects are spoken varies according to a number of factors: In Northern Germany, dialects are less common than in the South. In cities, dialects are less common than in the countryside. In a public environment, dialects are less common than in a familiar environment.\n\nThe situation in Switzerland and Liechtenstein is different from the rest of the German-speaking countries. The Swiss German dialects are the default everyday language in virtually every situation, whereas standard German is only spoken in education, partially in media, and with foreigners not possessing knowledge of Swiss German. Most Swiss German speakers perceive standard German to be a foreign language.\n\nThe Low German varieties spoken in Germany are often counted among the German dialects. This reflects the modern situation where they are roofed by standard German. This is different from the situation in the Middle Ages when Low German had strong tendencies towards an ausbau language.\n\nThe Frisian languages spoken in Germany are excluded from the German dialects.\n\nItaly is home to a vast array of native regional minority languages, most of which are Romance-based and have their own local variants. These regional languages are often referred to colloquially or in non-linguistic circles as Italian \"dialects\", or \"dialetti\" (standard Italian for \"dialects\"). However, the majority of the regional languages in Italy are in fact not actually \"dialects\" of standard Italian in the strict linguistic sense, as they are not derived from modern standard Italian but instead evolved locally from Vulgar Latin independent of standard Italian, with little to no influence from what is now known as \"standard Italian.\" They are therefore better classified as individual languages rather than \"dialects.\"\n\nIn addition to having evolved, for the most part, separately from one another and with distinct individual histories, the Latin-based regional Romance languages of Italy are also better classified as separate languages rather than true \"dialects\" due to the often high degree in which they lack mutual intelligibility. Though mostly mutually unintelligible, the exact degree to which the regional Italian languages are mutually unintelligible varies, often correlating with geographical distance or geographical barriers between the languages, with some regional Italian languages that are closer in geographical proximity to each other or closer to each other on the dialect continuum being more or less mutually intelligible. For instance, a speaker of purely Eastern Lombard, a language in Northern Italy's Lombardy region that includes the Bergamasque dialect, would have severely limited mutual intelligibility with a purely standard Italian speaker and would be nearly completely unintelligible to a speaker of a pure Sicilian language variant. Due to Eastern Lombard's status as a Gallo-Italic language, an Eastern Lombard speaker may, in fact, have more mutual intelligibility with a Occitan, Catalan, or French speaker than with a standard Italian or Sicilian language speaker. Meanwhile, a Sicilian language speaker would have a greater degree of mutual intelligibility with a speaker of the more closely related Neapolitan language, but far less mutual intelligibility with a person speaking Sicilian Gallo-Italic, a language that developed in isolated Lombard emigrant communities on the same island as the Sicilian language.\n\nModern standard Italian itself is heavily based on the Latin-derived Florentine Tuscan language. The Tuscan-based language that would eventually become modern standard Italian had been used in poetry and literature since at least the 12th century, and it first spread throughout Italy among the educated upper class through the works of authors such as Dante Alighieri, Giovanni Boccaccio, Niccolò Machiavelli, and Petrarch. Dante's Florentine-Tuscan literary Italian thus slowly became the language of the literate and upper class in Italy, and it spread throughout the peninsula as the \"lingua franca\" among the Italian educated class as well as Italian traveling merchants. The economic prowess and cultural and artistic importance of Tuscany in the Late Middle Ages and the Renaissance further encouraged the diffusion of the Florentine-Tuscan Italian throughout Italy and among the educated and powerful, though local and regional languages remained the main languages of the common people.\n\nDuring the Risorgimento, proponents of Italian republicanism and Italian nationalism, such as Alessandro Manzoni, stressed the importance of establishing a uniform national language in order to better create an Italian national identity. With the unification of Italy in the 1860s, standard Italian became the official national language of the new Italian state, while the various unofficial regional languages of Italy gradually became regarded as subordinate \"dialects\" to Italian, increasingly associated negatively with lack of education or provincialism. However, at the time of the Italian Unification, standard Italian still existed mainly as a literary language, and only 2.5% of Italy's population could speak standard Italian.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the vast conscription of Italian men from all throughout Italy during World War I is credited with facilitating the diffusion of standard Italian among less educated Italian men, as these men from various regions with various regional languages were forced to communicate with each other in a common tongue while serving in the Italian military. With the eventual spread of the radio and television throughout Italy and the establishment of public education, Italians from all regions were increasingly exposed to standard Italian, while literacy rates among all social classes improved. Today, the majority of Italians are able to speak standard Italian, though many Italians still speak their regional language regularly or as their primary day-to-day language, especially at home with family or when communicating with Italians from the same town or region. However, to some Italians, speaking a regional language, especially in a formal setting or outside of one's region, may carry a stigma or negative connotations associated with being lower class, uneducated, boorish, or overly informal.\n\nItalians in different regions today may also speak regional varieties of standard Italian, or regional Italian dialects, which, unlike the majority of languages of Italy, are actually dialects of standard Italian rather than separate languages. A regional Italian dialect is generally standard Italian that has been heavily influenced or mixed with local or regional native languages and accents.\n\nThe languages of Italy are primarily Latin-based Romance languages, with the most widely spoken languages falling within the Italo-Dalmatian language family. This wide category includes:\n\nAside from the more common Italo-Dalmatian Romance languages in Italy, other native languages in Italy include: \n\nThe Sardinian language is considered to be its own Romance language family, separate not only from Italian and the wider Italo-Dalmatian family but from all the other Neo-Latin families; it is often subdivided into the Campidanese and Logudorese dialects. The Corsican-related Gallurese and Sassarese which are also spoken in Sardinia, on the other hand, are often considered closely related to or derived from Tuscan and are therefore fully part of the Italo-Dalmatian languages. Furthermore, the Gallo-Romance language of Ligurian and the Catalan Algherese dialect are also spoken in Sardinia, respectively in Carloforte/Calasetta and Alghero.\n\nThe classification of speech varieties as dialects or languages and their relationship to other varieties of speech can be controversial and the verdicts inconsistent. English and Serbo-Croatian illustrate the point. English and Serbo-Croatian each have two major variants (British and American English, and Serbian and Croatian, respectively), along with numerous other varieties. For political reasons, analyzing these varieties as \"languages\" or \"dialects\" yields inconsistent results: British and American English, spoken by close political and military allies, are almost universally regarded as varieties of a single language, whereas the national standards of Serbia and Croatia, which are closer to each other than some local vernacular dialects of Serbo-Croatian are to themselves, differing to a similar extent as the formal varieties of English, are treated by some linguists from the region as distinct languages, largely because the two countries oscillate from being brotherly to being bitter enemies. (The Serbo-Croatian language article deals with this topic much more fully.)\n\nSimilar examples abound. Macedonian, although largely mutually intelligible with Bulgarian, certain dialects of Serbo-Croatian and to a lesser extent the rest of the South Slavic dialect continuum, is considered by Bulgarian linguists to be a Bulgarian dialect, in contrast with the contemporary international view and the view in the Republic of Macedonia, which regards it as a language in its own right. Nevertheless, before the establishment of a literary standard of Macedonian in 1944, in most sources in and out of Bulgaria before the Second World War, the southern Slavonic dialect continuum covering the area of today's Republic of Macedonia were referred to as Bulgarian dialects.\n\nIn Lebanon, a part of the Christian population considers \"Lebanese\" to be in some sense a distinct language from Arabic and not merely a dialect. During the civil war Christians often used Lebanese Arabic officially, and sporadically used the Latin script to write Lebanese, thus further distinguishing it from Arabic. All Lebanese laws are written in the standard literary form of Arabic, though parliamentary debate may be conducted in Lebanese Arabic.\n\nIn Tunisia, Algeria, and Morocco, the Darijas (spoken North African languages) are sometimes considered more different from other Arabic dialects. Officially, North African countries prefer to give preference to the Literary Arabic and conduct much of their political and religious life in it (adherence to Islam), and refrain from declaring each country's specific variety to be a separate language, because Literary Arabic is the liturgical language of Islam and the language of the Islamic sacred book, the Qur'an. Although, especially since the 1960s, the Darijas are occupying an increasing use and influence in the cultural life of these countries. Examples of cultural elements where Darijas' use became dominant include: theatre, film, music, television, advertisement, social media, folk-tale books and companies' names.\n\nThe Modern Ukrainian language has been in common use since the late 17th century, associated with the establishment of the Cossack Hetmanate. In the 19th century, the Tsarist Government of the Russian Empire claimed that Ukrainian was merely a dialect of Russian and not a language on its own. According to these claims, the differences were few and caused by the conquest of western Ukraine by the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. However, in reality the dialects in Ukraine were developing independently from the dialects in the modern Russia for several centuries, and as a result they differed substantially.\n\nFollowing the signing of the Brest-Litovsk Treaty, the German Empire briefly gained control over Ukraine during World War I, but was eventually defeated by the Entente, with major involvement by the Ukrainian Bolsheviks. After Bolsheviks managed to conquer the rest of Ukraine from the Ukrainian People's Republic and the Whites, Ukraine became part of the USSR, whence a process of Ukrainization was begun, with encouragement from Moscow. However, in the late 1920s - early 1930s, the process started to reverse. Witnessing the Ukrainian cultural revival spurred by the ukrainization in the early 1290s, and fearing that it might lead to an independence movement, Moscow started to remove from power and in some cases physically eliminate the public proponents of ukrainization. The appointment of Pavel Postyshev as the secretary of the Communist Party of Ukraine marked the end of ukrainization, and the opposite process of russification started. After World War II, citing Ukrainian collaboration with Nazi Germany in an attempt to gain independence as the reason, Moscow changed its policy towards repression of the Ukrainian language.\n\nToday the boundaries of the Ukrainian language to the Russian language are still not drawn clearly, with an intermediate dialect between them, called Surzhyk, developing in Ukraine.\n\nThere have been cases of a variety of speech being deliberately reclassified to serve political purposes. One example is Moldovan. In 1996, the Moldovan parliament, citing fears of \"Romanian expansionism\", rejected a proposal from President Mircea Snegur to change the name of the language to Romanian, and in 2003 a Moldovan–Romanian dictionary was published, purporting to show that the two countries speak different languages. Linguists of the Romanian Academy reacted by declaring that all the Moldovan words were also Romanian words; while in Moldova, the head of the Academy of Sciences of Moldova, Ion Bărbuţă, described the dictionary as a politically motivated \"absurdity\".\n\nUnlike languages that use alphabets to indicate their pronunciation, Chinese characters have developed from logograms that do not always give hints to their pronunciation. Although the written characters have remained relatively consistent for the last two thousand years, the pronunciation and grammar in different regions have developed to an extent that the varieties of the spoken language are often mutually unintelligible. As a series of migration to the south throughout the history, the regional languages of the south, including Gan, Xiang, Wu, Min, Yue and Hakka often show traces of Old Chinese or Middle Chinese. From the Ming dynasty onward, Beijing has been the capital of China and the dialect spoken in Beijing has had the most prestige among other varieties. With the founding of the Republic of China, Standard Mandarin was designated as the official language, based on the spoken language of Beijing. Since then, other spoken varieties are regarded as \"fangyan\" (regional speech). Cantonese is still the most commonly-used language in Guangzhou, Hong Kong, Macau and among some overseas Chinese communities, whereas Hokkien has been accepted in Taiwan as an important local language alongside Mandarin.\n\nOne language, Interlingua, was developed so that the languages of Western civilization would act as its dialects. Drawing from such concepts as the international scientific vocabulary and Standard Average European, linguists developed a theory that the modern Western languages were actually dialects of a hidden or latent language. Researchers at the International Auxiliary Language Association extracted words and affixes that they considered to be part of Interlingua's vocabulary. In theory, speakers of the Western languages would understand written or spoken Interlingua immediately, without prior study, since their own languages were its dialects. This has often turned out to be true, especially, but not solely, for speakers of the Romance languages and educated speakers of English. Interlingua has also been found to assist in the learning of other languages. In one study, Swedish high school students learning Interlingua were able to translate passages from Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian that students of those languages found too difficult to understand. It should be noted, however, that the vocabulary of Interlingua extends beyond the Western language families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15023504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15023504", "title": "Disjunctivism", "text": "Disjunctivism\n\nDisjunctivism is a position in the philosophy of perception that rejects the existence of sense data in certain cases. The disjunction is between appearance and the reality behind the appearance \"making itself perceptually manifest to someone.\"\n\nVeridical perceptions and hallucinations are not members of a common class of mental states or events. According to this theory, the only thing common to veridical perceptions and hallucinations is that in both cases, the subject cannot tell, via introspection, whether he is having a veridical perception or not. Disjunctivists claim this because they hold that in veridical perception, a subject's experience actually presents the external, mind-independent object of that perception. Further, they claim that in a hallucination there is no external object to be related to, nor are there sense-data to be a part of the perception. Thus, disjunctivism is a form of naive realism or direct realism.\n\nDisjunctivism was first introduced to the contemporary literature by Michael Hinton, and has subsequently been associated with John McDowell. Disjunctivists often hold that an important virtue of their view is that it captures the common sense idea that perception involves a relation to objects in the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "35929161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35929161", "title": "Edgar F. Gordon", "text": "Edgar F. Gordon\n\nEdgar Fitzgerald Gordon (20 March 1895 – 20 April 1955), born in Trinidad & Tobago, was a physician, parliamentarian, civil-rights activist and labour leader in Bermuda, and is regarded as the \"father of trade unionism\" there: \"he championed the cause of Bermudian workers and fought for equal rights for black Bermudians, thereby laying the groundwork for much of the political and social change that came about after his death\". He was president of the Bermuda Industrial Union (BIU) 1945–55. Gordon has been described as \"perhaps the only black charismatic leader to have emerged in the island's modern political history\", and as \"Bermuda's most dedicated Pan-Africanist\".\n\nIn 2011, Gordon was honoured as a National Hero of Bermuda. Other posthumous honours he has been accorded include the Peace & Social Justice Award 2016 from the Roman Catholic Church of Bermuda.\n\nEdgar Fitzgerald Gordon was born to Olympia Jardin and Frederick Charles Gordon in Port of Spain, Trinidad, where he received his early education at Queen's Royal College (QRC), graduating as one of the school's most brilliant scholars. In 1912 he went to Scotland to study medicine at the University of Edinburgh. There he met and married a fellow medical student, Clara Christian (who had previously studied music in the US at Hampton Institute in Hampton, Virginia, and Oberlin College, Ohio). To the displeasure of her father George James Christian, a Dominican barrister who had settled in the Gold Coast in 1902, she abandoned her medical studies to begin a family with Gordon.\n\nQualifying as a doctor at the age of 23 in 1918, Gordon was for some time a medical practitioner in the small Scottish town of Kingussie. In 1921 he returned to the Caribbean with his wife and young family. He briefly worked in Trinidad, then went on to become chief medical supervisor in Dominica.\n\nIn 1924, Gordon went to Bermuda, where he would set up a busy medical practice on Heathcote Hill in Somerset. According to biographer Ira Philip, Gordon \"was brought to Bermuda by Sandys businessman William Robinson to fill a void caused by the death of black Dr Arnold Packwood. The all white local medical board was embarrassed when Dr Gordon passed what he termed was an impossible examination which he contended was calculated to fail him.\"\n\nGordon began to take up the cause of black nurses and the discrimination they faced in employment in Bermuda, writing a series of letters dating from 1929 to the editor of \"The Royal Gazette\" criticising the refusal of the Bermuda Welfare Society to hire Blacks as district nurses. After decades of lobbying, the first black district nurse to be hired was Leonie Harford in 1963.\n\nAfter standing unsuccessfully for Parliament in 1933 and 1943, Gordon won a seat in St George's in 1946.\n\nOn 22 June 1947, in protest at the fact that his fellow parliamentarians persistently refused to address him by his correct title, and that a Bermuda newspaper, the \"Mid-Ocean News\", prefixed \"Mr.\" to the names of white members of Bermuda's Parliament (second oldest in the world), but called him simply Gordon, he announced that henceforth he was to be known by the African name of Mazumbo, with no prefix. His notice to this effect in \"The Royal Gazette\" read:\nHe gave as explanation: \"The name Gordon, which I inherited, reminds me very painfully that some Scotsman in some other age compelled a grandmother of mine to submit to his desires. In Bermuda I am black and treated as Bermuda treats the black people. So I want to be called by a name that belongs to my race and requires no prefix.\" He was further quoted as saying that he had taken his new name from \"a famous West African chieftain, who had once been received by Queen Victoria\". This was a reference to a 19th-century Trinidadian lawyer called Emmanuel Lazare, popularly known as Mazumbo (or Mzumbo) Lazare, about whom Maureen Warner-Lewis has written: \"although born in the Antilles, Lazare appropriated, or condoned the use of, an overtly African designation. The name was a symbol of his identification with black people and the poor. He was a defender of their rights, joined the Pan-African Association founded in 1901 in England by fellow Trinidadian Henry Sylvester Williams, and became a moving spirit behind democratic political reforms at the turn of the twentieth century.\" This characterisation of Mazumbo Lazare is additional evidence for Gordon's motivation in associating himself with the name.\n\nAs a Member of the Colonial Parliament (MCP), Gordon was a fiery and sometimes controversial orator. After the death in July 1948 of the Speaker of the House of Assembly Sir Reginald Conyers (who in his will left money for the Port Royal School in Hamilton, providing it was \"used for the education of white children\"), Gordon told a public meeting that he had only attended Conyers' funeral to \"make sure he was put in the hole\". According to Hodgson, Gordon's \"dramatic personality, his drive, and his unabashed theatricals had done what no one else either could do, or chose to do. He had alerted the Negro masses, he had given expression to their unvoiced despair and anger, often his words had given shape and form to emotions which they themselves could hardly define.\"\n\nChampioning the rights of black and working-class Bermudians, Gordon was asked to become president of the Bermuda Workers' Association (BWA) in 1944, which fought for trade union rights and was committed to the removal of segregation and the adoption of universal adult suffrage. Membership of the BWA had by then dwindled to 200 but under Gordon's vigorous leadership it increased to 5,000 in 1945. In 1946, he began his campaign to petition for social and constitutional change, and in that year the Legislature passed Bermuda's first Trade Union and Disputes Act, which was designed to curb the fledgling BWA, making it illegal for a union to have a newspaper or operate a business. Gordon took the lead in the subsequent establishment that year of the Bermuda Industrial Union (BIU), and the BWA for the time being continued as its political arm.\n\nDuring an extended visit to England from December 1946 to March 1947, Gordon presented a petition containing over 5,000 signatures to the British Colonial Secretary from the BWA outlining various concerns, including the limited franchise, segregation, and restricted occupational opportunities. Only seven per cent of the population could vote, and (as Meredith Ebbin notes) there were more votes cast than actual voters because a property owner could vote in every parish where he owned land. It was a system that gave \"the monied classes a distinct and definite control over the election results\", Gordon said, pointing out that while the UK and its dependencies had undertaken voting reforms, Bermuda had operated under the same system since 1620.\n\nThe matter was debated in the British Parliament, which while condemning many of the practices highlighted in the petition refused Dr. Gordon's request for a Royal Commission to investigate social, political and economic conditions on the island. The Colonial Secretary subsequently issued a document (Command Paper 7093), sent to the Governor, Admiral Sir Ralph Leatham, strongly recommending positive and progressive changes to the colony's discriminatory laws. A Joint Committee of the Bermuda Legislative Council and House of Assembly was formed to study the matter; however, its report in April 1948 recommended against changing the colony's Jim Crow laws, holding that \"the early adoption of adult franchise would be prejudicial to the best interests of Bermuda\". (It would not be until 1959 that segregation ended, with the BIU playing a key role in the civil disobedience that brought about the change.)\n\nAt the 1948 election Gordon lost his House of Assembly seat – a setback attributable to his preoccupation with a dock workers' dispute that year, which had limited the time he could devote to his Parliamentary duties – but he was re-elected in 1953.\n\nIn November 1953, when the newly crowned Queen Elizabeth II made Bermuda the first (24-hour) stop in her tour of the Commonwealth, Gordon learned that of more than 1,000 guests to be invited to a Government House garden party in her honour only 60 were black, and that not a single black Bermudian had been asked to attend the official state dinner. With the intention of focusing world attention on Bermuda's racially stratified society, Gordon passed this news to the British press and Reuters reported the resultant angry protests from the \"Daily Mirror\" and the \"Daily Herald\". In its editorial the \"Herald\" stated: \"Perhaps others may benefit from this instance of gross ill manners. It is time everyone from Governors downwards grasped the facts about this British Commonwealth. Within its frontiers coloured people outnumber whites by more than eight to one. One of the moral pledges by which it is held together is that the colour bar should be utterly destroyed as speedily as possible...\" As Bernews notes: \"The Queen set foot in Bermuda the day the story broke. She was photographed that same afternoon meeting a broadly smiling, tail-coated Dr. Gordon in St. George’s.\"\n\nKeenly interested in cricket, Gordon believed that Bermuda would benefit by closer contact with the islands of the West Indies, which were then gaining ascendancy in Test cricket. He championed the Bermudian cricketer Alma Hunt, who in 1933 went to Trinidad to take part in the trial games from which would be selected the West Indies team for the Test series in England that summer. Although proving himself both on and off the field, Hunt was not eventually given a place. Gordon pointed out that Hunt's status would have been more assured had there been an official body to deal with finance and represent him, and advocated for a Bermuda Cricket Board of Control, which was eventually formed in 1938. He was instrumental in bringing about the first ever West Indian cricket tour to Bermuda in 1939, which was headed by Trinidadian Ben Sealey.\n\nGordon and his Dominica-born wife Clara, who joined him in Bermuda, had six children: Barbara, Joyce, Evelyn, Marjorie (mother of BBC broadcaster Moira Stuart), Edgar (familiarly called Teddy, and later known as Hakim), and Kenneth (who was born in Bermuda in 1927). Clara would organise cultural gatherings, including musical soirees, at their home.\n\nBy a subsequent relationship Gordon had other children; his last child Pamela F. Gordon, born six months after her father's death, would become Bermuda's youngest and first female premier in March 1997 when she replaced David Saul as leader of the United Bermuda Party until that party was defeated for the first time in a general election, in November 1998. Another daughter is MP Patricia Gordon-Pamplin, who having served in various ministerial positions in the OBA Cabinet was announced as OBA interim leader after the change of government in July 2017.\n\nDr Gordon died in Bermuda at King Edward VII Memorial Hospital, following a heart attack at the age of 60, on 20 April 1955. Two days later thousands of people turned out for his funeral service at St. Theresa's Roman Catholic Cathedral in Hamilton and burial at Calvary Cemetery, Devonshire Parish. According to reports, \"Many of Bermuda's blacks wept at his graveside. That they had a better future was in very large part due to his tireless efforts on their behalf over more than two decades.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27363576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27363576", "title": "Flexibility (personality)", "text": "Flexibility (personality)\n\nFlexibility is a personality trait that describes the extent to which a person can cope with changes in circumstances and think about problems and tasks in novel, creative ways. This trait is used when stressors or unexpected events occur, requiring a person to change their stance, outlook, or commitment. Flexible personality should not be confused with cognitive flexibility, which is the ability to switch between two concepts, as well as simultaneously think about multiple concepts. Researchers of cognitive flexibility describe it as the ability to switch one's thinking and attention between tasks. Flexibility, or psychological flexibility, as it is sometimes referred to, is the ability to adapt to situational demands, balance life demands, and commit to behaviors.\n\nDue to the different facets of the definition of psychological flexibility, there are many problems when measuring it. There are multiple questionnaires that attempt to do so.\n\nThe Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQ) was developed in order to measure experiential avoidance. This test found that higher levels of avoidance were linked to higher levels of general psychopathology, depression, anxiety, fears, and a lower quality of life. It also measured avoidant coping and self-deceptive positivity. It was later decided that the AAQ actually measured psychological flexibility, not experiential avoidance. It was used until the AAQ-II was created.\nThe AAQ-II was developed in order to improve upon the faults of the AAQ. The original AAQ had faults in scale brevity, item wording, and item selection procedures that caused insufficient alpha levels to be obtained in measurements. The AAQ-II scores were found to predict many outcomes, including mental health and work absence rates. The AAQ-II also was found to be more psychometrically consistent than the original AAQ.\nLaboratory measures of flexibility are consistent with how flexible people are in their actual lives. Flexibility measured in laboratory settings even predicted how flexible people will be in real life. More recently however, the validity of the AAQ has again been brought into question, primarily by inconsistent results. Recent studies have shown that both versions of the AAQ appear to measure the same thing, which is neuroticism/negative affect rather than experiential avoidance.\n\nResearch has shown that the relationship between parent and child distress may be influenced by parenting psychological flexibility. When parents are psychologically inflexible they cause more stress in their families. A similar study looked at the longitudinal relationship between perceived parenting style and psychological flexibility among students over six years (7th–12th grade). Results showed that psychological flexibility decreased with age, illustrating that as children grow older they become more set in their thoughts and habits, being less likely to change them due to circumstances. Results also indicated that authoritarian parenting styles predicted low psychological flexibility in children. This demonstrates that parents who over-control their children tend to restrict how well their children cope with stressors in life. Lastly, results showed that children with psychological flexibility in 9th grade were more likely to have decreases in authoritarian and increases in authoritative parenting style later on. Authoritative parenting styles seem to be associated with psychological flexibility in children. Authoritative parents tend to be more warm, fair, and encouraging than other parenting styles which may be why children raised by this style have more psychological flexibility. The children are encouraged to be independent and are supported, so they are able to adjust to situations that do not go as predicted.\n\nPsychological flexibility has been found to improve mental health and absence rates. A mediating variable is job control, which suggests that people feel they have more psychological flexibility when they have more control over their jobs. This is likely due to workers feeling less restricted by what they are allowed to do and more empowered to solve a problem. A longitudinal study on psychological flexibility and job control showed that these variables predicted workers' mental health, job performance, and even their ability to learn new software. The study demonstrates the power of psychological flexibility in the workplace as psychologically flexible workers have better mental health and job performance. Allowing workers more job control would likely increase work productivity as it would increase the workers' psychological flexibility. In leadership studies, flexibility, defined as \"the ability to get along with different groups and adapt to the demands of many organizations,\" is one aspect of portability, or the ability to acquire skills and move from one company to the next.\n\nThe ability to cope and be flexible was positively associated with improved psychological health. Flexibility reduced depression, anxiety, and stress. An in-depth experiment analyzed the relationship between difficulty identifying and describing feelings (DIDF) and psychological flexibility for men undergoing cancer screenings. Results showed that DIDF and psychological flexibility were reliable predictors of mental health. However, psychological flexibility only predicted mental health when DIDF was involved. Psychological flexibility allowed participants to have a better understanding of the subtleties of pleasant and unpleasant emotions. This understanding allowed participants to identify and describe their feelings better, thus enhancing their mental health.\n\nA 2 year longitudinal study found that psychological flexibility helps with long-term emotional adjustment. People who are better at enhancing and suppressing their expression of emotions are less likely to be stressed over time. People with higher psychological flexibility are also able to have greater endurance, higher pain tolerance, and a quicker recovery rate to baseline levels when experiencing physical pain.\n\nImprovements can be made to psychological flexibility through training, such as through various forms of psychotherapy.\n\nThe main goal of acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) is to increase psychological flexibility. ACT is a form of therapy that aims to help people accept unavoidable events, identify actions that will lead to goals, and acknowledge thoughts rather than accepting or disregarding them. When psychological flexibility was targeted in one study of ACT, there was a stronger reduction in psychological distress. There are six core processes in ACT interventions: acceptance, cognitive defusion, self as context, being present, values, and committed action.\n\n\"Acceptance\" is taught in order to teach people to embrace their emotions, rather than trying to get rid of them. An example of acceptance would be when people feel angry and then choose to focus on the anger and accept that they are angry, rather than trying to unleash their anger to get rid of it. \"Cognitive defusion\" teaches people to not take their thoughts as literal in order to decrease the believability of negative thoughts and increase flexibility to behave as they want. An example of cognitive defusion would be when someone thinks \"I am the worst,\" and then notices the thought for what it is—mere words—perhaps by saying to themselves \"I am having the thought that I am the worst\". This is in contrast to a cognitive therapy approach where the person might challenge the thought by thinking of things in which he or she excels.\n\n\"Self as context\" attempts to have people create an awareness of their own experiences without being attached to them. This process is done in order to help people let go of specific content and experience themselves. \"Being present\" teaches people to directly experience the world by paying attention to the moment and being aware. An example of being present would be meditation and mindfulness. \n\"Values\" teaches people to take actions for chosen qualities. An example of this is somebody who chooses to continue to improve on being a father (chosen quality) by reliving painful childhood memories about how his own father parented him (action). The purpose is not to encourage pain, but rather to allow people to deal with pain for a valued choice, such as being a good father). Lastly, \"committed action\" teaches people to make changes in behavior in order for them to reach chosen qualities. Committed action involves identifying psychological barriers that will interfere with short, medium, and longer term goals and then working through those barriers in order to reach the goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "12393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12393", "title": "Gaia philosophy", "text": "Gaia philosophy\n\nGaia philosophy (named after Gaia, Greek goddess of the Earth) is a broadly inclusive term for related concepts that living organisms on a planet will affect the nature of their environment in order to make the environment more suitable for life. This set of theories holds that all organisms on a life-giving planet regulate the biosphere in such a way as to promote its habitability. Gaia concept draws a connection between the survivability of a species (hence its evolutionary course) and its usefulness to the survival of other species.\n\nWhile there were a number of precursors to Gaia theory, the first scientific form of this idea was proposed as the Gaia hypothesis by James Lovelock, a UK chemist, in 1970. The Gaia hypothesis deals with the concept of biological homeostasis, and claims the resident life forms of a host planet coupled with their environment have acted and act like a single, self-regulating system. This system includes the near-surface rocks, the soil, and the atmosphere. Today many scientists consider such ideas to be unsupported by, or at odds with, the available evidence (see recent criticism). These theories are however significant in green politics.\n\nThere are some mystical, scientific and religious predecessors to the Gaia philosophy, which had a Gaia-like conceptual basis. Many religious mythologies had a view of Earth as being a whole that is greater than the sum of its parts (e.g. some Native American religions and various forms of shamanism).\n\nLewis Thomas believed that Earth should be viewed as a single cell; he derived this view from Johannes Kepler's view of Earth as a single round organism.\n\nIsaac Newton wrote of the earth, \"Thus this Earth resembles a great animall or rather inanimate vegetable, draws in æthereall breath for its dayly refreshment & vitall ferment & transpires again with gross exhalations, And according to the condition of all other things living ought to have its times of beginning youth old age & perishing.\"\n\nPierre Teilhard de Chardin, a paleontologist and geologist, believed that evolution unfolded from cell to organism to planet to solar system and ultimately the whole universe, as we humans see it from our limited perspective. Teilhard later influenced Thomas Berry and many Catholic humanist thinkers of the 20th century.\n\nBuckminster Fuller is generally credited with making the idea respectable in Western scientific circles in the 20th century. Building to some degree on his observations and artifacts, e.g. the Dymaxion map of the Earth he created, others began to ask if there was a way to make the Gaia theory scientifically sound.\n\nOberon Zell-Ravenheart in 1970 in an article in \"Green Egg\" Magazine, independently articulated the Gaia Thesis.\n\nNone of these ideas are considered scientific hypotheses; by definition a scientific hypothesis must make testable predictions. As the above claims are not testable, they are outside the bounds of current science.\n\nThese are conjectures and perhaps can only be considered as social and maybe political philosophy; they may have implications for theology, or \"thealogy\" as Zell-Ravenheart and Isaac Bonewits put it.\n\nAccording to James Kirchner there is a spectrum of Gaia hypotheses, ranging from the undeniable to radical. At one end is the undeniable statement that the organisms on the Earth have radically altered its composition. A stronger position is that the Earth's biosphere effectively acts as if it is a self-organizing system which works in such a way as to keep its systems in some kind of equilibrium that is conducive to life. Today many scientists consider that such a view (and any stronger views) are unlikely to be correct. An even stronger claim is that all lifeforms are part of a single planetary being, called Gaia. In this view, the atmosphere, the seas, the terrestrial crust would be the result of interventions carried out by Gaia, through the coevolving diversity of living organisms.\n\nThe most extreme form of Gaia theory is that the entire Earth is a single unified organism with a highly intelligent mind that arose as an emergent property of the whole biosphere. In this view, the Earth's biosphere is \"consciously\" manipulating the climate in order to make conditions more conducive to life. Scientists contend that there is no evidence at all to support this last point of view, and it has come about because many people do not understand the concept of homeostasis. Many non-scientists instinctively and incorrectly see homeostasis as a process that requires conscious control .\n\nThe more speculative versions of Gaia, including versions in which it is believed that the Earth is actually conscious, sentient, and highly intelligent, are usually considered outside the bounds of what is usually considered science.\n\nBuckminster Fuller has been credited as the first to incorporate scientific ideas into a Gaia theory, which he did with his Dymaxion map of the Earth.\n\nThe first scientifically rigorous theory was the Gaia hypothesis by James Lovelock, a UK chemist.\n\nA variant of this hypothesis was developed by Lynn Margulis, a microbiologist, in 1979.\nHer version is sometimes called the \"Gaia Theory\" (note uppercase-T). Her model is more limited in scope than the one that Lovelock proposed.\n\nWhether this sort of system is present on Earth is still open to debate. Some relatively simple homeostatic mechanisms are generally accepted. For example, when atmospheric carbon dioxide levels rise, plants are able to grow better and thus remove more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. Other biological effects and feedbacks exist, but the extent to which these mechanisms have stabilized and modified the Earth's overall climate is largely not known.\n\nThe Gaia hypothesis is sometimes viewed from significantly different philosophical perspectives. Some environmentalists view it as an almost conscious process, in which the Earth's ecosystem is literally viewed as a single unified organism. Some evolutionary biologists, on the other hand, view it as an undirected emergent property of the ecosystem: as each individual species pursues its own self-interest, their combined actions tend to have counterbalancing effects on environmental change. Proponents of this view sometimes point to examples of life's actions in the past that have resulted in dramatic change rather than stable equilibrium, such as the conversion of the Earth's atmosphere from a reducing environment to an oxygen-rich one.\n\nDepending on how strongly the case is stated, the hypothesis conflicts with mainstream neo-Darwinism. Most biologists would accept Daisyworld-style homeostasis as possible, but would certainly not accept the idea that this equates to the whole biosphere acting as one organism.\n\nA very small number of scientists, and a much larger number of environmental activists, claim that Earth's biosphere is \"consciously\" manipulating the climate in order to make conditions more conducive to life. Scientists contend that there is no evidence to support this belief.\n\nA social science view of Gaia theory is the role of humans as a keystone species who may be able to accomplish global homeostasis. Whilst a few social scientists who draw inspiration from 'organic' views of society have embraced Gaia philosophy as a way to explain the human-nature interconnections, most professional social scientists are more involved in reflecting upon the way Gaia philosophy is used and engaged with within sub-sections of society. Alan Marshall, in the Department of Social Sciences at Mahidol University, for example, reflects upon the way Gaia philosophy has been used and advocated by environmentalists, spiritualists, managers, economists, and scientists and engineers (see The Unity of Nature, 2002, Imperial College Press: London and Singapore). Social Scientists themselves in the 1960s gave up on systems ideas of society since they were interpreted as supporting conservatism and traditionalism.\n\nSome radical political environmentalists who accept some form of the Gaia theory call themselves Gaians. They actively seek to restore the Earth's homeostasis — whenever they see it out of balance, e.g. to prevent manmade climate change, primate extinction, or rainforest loss. In effect, they seek to cooperate to become the \"system consciously manipulating to make conditions more conducive to life\". Such activity defines the homeostasis, but for leverage it relies on deep investigation of the homeorhetic balances, if only to find places to intervene in a system which is changing in undesirable ways.\n\nTony Bondhus brings up the point in his book, \"Society of Conceivia\", that if Gaia is alive, then societies are living things as well. This suggests that our understanding of Gaia can be used to create a better society and to design a better political system.\n\nOther intellectuals in the environmental movement, like Edward Goldsmith, have used Gaia in the completely opposite way; to stake a claim about how Gaia's focus on natural balance and resistance and resilience, should be emulated to design a conservative political system (as explored in Alan Marshall's 2002 book \"The Unity of Nature\", (Imperial College Press: London).\n\nGaians do not passively ask \"what is going on\", but rather, \"what to do next\", e.g. in terraforming or climate engineering or even on a small scale, such as gardening. Changes can be planned, agreed upon by many people, being very deliberate, as in urban ecology and especially industrial ecology. \"See arcology for more on this 'active' view.\"\n\nGaians argue that it is a human duty to act as such - committing themselves in particular to the Precautionary Principle. Such views began to influence the Green Parties, Greenpeace, and a few more radical wings of the environmental movement such as the Gaia Liberation Front and the Earth Liberation Front. These views dominate some such groups, e.g. the Bioneers. Some refer to this political activity as a separate and radical branch of the ecology movement, one that takes the axioms of the science of ecology in general, and Gaia theory in particular, and raises them to a kind of theory of personal conduct or moral code.\n\nThe ecologist and theologian Anne Primavesi is the author of two books dealing with the Gaia hypothesis and theology.\n\nRosemary Radford Ruether, the American feminist scholar and theologian, wrote a book called \"Gaia and God: An Ecofeminist Theology of Earth Healing\".\n\nA book edited by Allan Hunt Badiner called Dharma Gaia explores the ground where Buddhism and ecology meet through writings by the Dalai Lama, Gary Snyder, Thich Nhat Hanh, Allen Ginsberg, Joanna Macy, Robert Aitken, and 25 other Buddhists and ecologists.\n\nMany new age authors have written books which mix New Age teachings with Gaia philosophy. This is known as New Age Gaian. Often referred to as Gaianism, or the Gaian Religion, this spiritual aspect of the philosophy is very broad and inclusive, making it adaptable to other religions: Taoism, Neo-Paganism, Pantheism, Judeo-Christian Religions, and many others.\n\nThe question of \"what is an organism\", and at what scale is it rational to speak about organisms vs. biospheres, gives rise to a semantic debate. We are all ecologies in the sense that our (human) bodies contain gut bacteria, parasite species, etc., and to them our body is not organism but rather more of a microclimate or biome. Applying that thinking to whole planets:\n\nThe argument is that these symbiotic organisms, being unable to survive apart from each other and their climate and local conditions, form an organism in their own right, under a wider conception of the term organism than is conventionally used. It is a matter for often heated debate whether this is a valid usage of the term, but ultimately it appears to be a semantic dispute. In this sense of the word organism, it is argued under the theory that the entire biomass of the Earth is a single organism (as Johannes Kepler thought).\n\nUnfortunately, many supporters of the various Gaia theories do not state exactly where they sit on this spectrum; this makes discussion and criticism difficult.\n\nMuch effort on behalf of those analyzing the theory currently is an attempt to clarify what these different hypotheses are, and whether they are proposals to 'test' or 'manipulate' outcomes. Both Lovelock's and Margulis's understanding of Gaia are considered scientific hypotheses, and like all scientific theories are constantly put to the test.\n\nMore speculative versions of Gaia, including all versions in which it is held that the Earth is actually conscious, are currently held to be outside the bounds of science, and are not supported by either Lovelock or Margulis.\n\nOne of the most problematic issues with referring to Gaia as an organism is its apparent failure to meet the biological criterion of being able to reproduce. Richard Dawkins has asserted that the planet is not the offspring of any parents and is unable to reproduce.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57506816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57506816", "title": "Hall circles", "text": "Hall circles\n\nHall circles (also known as M-circles and N-circles) are a graphical tool in control theory used to obtain values of a closed-loop transfer function from the Nyquist plot (or the Nichols plot) of the associated open-loop transfer function. Hall circles have been introduced in control theory by Albert C. Hall in his thesis.\n\nConsider a closed-loop linear control system with open-loop transfer function given by transfer function formula_1 and with a unit gain in the feedback loop. The closed-loop transfer function is given by formula_2. \n\nTo check the stability of \"T\"(\"s\"), it is possible to use the Nyquist stability criterion with the Nyquist plot of the open-loop transfer function \"G\"(\"s\"). Note, however, that only the Nyquist plot of \"G\"(\"s\") does not give the actual values of \"T\"(\"s\"). To get this information from the G(s)-plane, Hall proposed to construct the locus of points in the \"G\"(\"s\")-plane such that \"T\"(\"s\") has constant magnitude and the also the locus of points in the \"G\"(\"s\")-plane such that \"T\"(\"s\") has constant phase angle.\n\nGiven a positive real value \"M\" representing a fixed magnitude, and denoting G(s) by \"z\", the points satisfying formula_3are given by the points \"z\" in the \"G\"(\"s\")-plane such that the ratio of the distance between \"z\" and 0 and the distance between \"z\" and -1 is equal to \"M\". The points \"z\" satisfying this locus condition are circles of Apollonius, and this locus is known in the context of control systems as \"M-circles\".\n\nGiven a positive real value \"N\" representing a phase angle, the points satisfying formula_4are given by the points z in the \"G\"(\"s\")-plane such that the angle between -1 and z and the angle between 0 and z is constant. In other words, the angle opposed to the line segment between -1 and 0 must be constant. This implies that the points z satisfying this locus condition are arcs of circles, and this locus is known in the context of control systems as \"N-circles\".\n\nTo use the Hall circles, a plot of M and N circles is done over the Nyquist plot of the open-loop transfer function. The points of the intersection between these graphics give the corresponding value of the closed-loop transfer function.\n\nHall circles are also used with the Nichols plot and in this setting, are also known as Nichols chart. Rather than overlaying directly the Hall circles over the Nichols plot, the points of the circles are transferred to a new coordinate system where the ordinate is given by formula_5 and the abscissa is given by formula_6. The advantage of using Nichols chart is that adjusting the gain of the open loop transfer function directly reflects in up and down translation of the Nichols plot in the chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "585882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=585882", "title": "Harris–Todaro model", "text": "Harris–Todaro model\n\nThe Harris–Todaro model, named after John R. Harris and Michael Todaro, is an economic model developed in 1970 and used in development economics and welfare economics to explain some of the issues concerning rural-urban migration. The main assumption of the model is that the migration decision is based on expected income differentials between rural and urban areas rather than just wage differentials. This implies that rural-urban migration in a context of high urban unemployment can be economically rational if expected urban income exceeds expected rural income.\n\nIn the model, an equilibrium is reached when the expected wage in urban areas (actual wage adjusted for the unemployment rate), is equal to the marginal product of an agricultural worker. The model assumes that unemployment is non-existent in the rural agricultural sector. It is also assumed that rural agricultural production and the subsequent labor market is perfectly competitive. As a result, the agricultural rural wage is equal to agricultural marginal productivity. In equilibrium, the rural to urban migration rate will be zero since the expected rural income equals the expected urban income. However, in this equilibrium there will be positive unemployment in the urban sector. The model explains internal migration in China as the regional income gap has been proved to be a primary drive of rural-urban migration, while urban unemployment is local governments' main concern in many cities.\n\nThe formal statement of the equilibrium condition of the Harris–Todaro model is as follows:\n\nRural to urban migration will take place if:\n\nConversely, urban to rural migration will occur if:\n\nAt equilibrium, \n\nWith the random matching of workers to available jobs, the ratio of available jobs to total job seekers gives the probability that any person moving from the agricultural sector to the urban sector will be able to find a job. As a result, in equilibrium, the agricultural wage rate is equal to the expected urban wage rate, which is the urban wage multiplied by the employment rate.\n\nTherefore, migration from rural areas to urban areas will increase if:\n\nHowever, even though this migration creates unemployment and induces informal sector growth, this behavior is economically rational and utility-maximizing in the context of the Harris–Todaro model. As long as the migrating economic agents have complete and accurate information concerning rural and urban wage rates and probabilities of obtaining employment, they will make an expected income-maximizing decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "1470578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1470578", "title": "Hospitium", "text": "Hospitium\n\nHospitium (, \"xenia\", προξενία) is the ancient Greco-Roman concept of hospitality as a divine right of the guest and a divine duty of the host. Similar or broadly equivalent customs were and are also known in other cultures, though not always by that name. Among the Greeks and Romans, hospitium was of a twofold character: private and public.\n\nIn Homeric times, all strangers, without exception, were regarded as being under the protection of Zeus Xenios, the god of strangers and suppliants, and had the \"right to hospitality\". (It is doubtful whether, as is commonly assumed, they were considered as ipso facto enemies; they were rather guests.) Immediately on his arrival, the stranger was clothed and entertained, and no inquiry was made as to his name or antecedents until the duties of hospitality had been fulfilled. When the guest parted from his host he was often presented with gifts (ξένια), and sometimes a die (ἀστράγαλος) was broken between them. Each then took a part, a family connection was established, and the broken die served as a symbol of recognition; thus the members of each family found in the other hosts and protectors in case of need.\n\nViolation by the host of the \"duties of hospitality\" was likely to provoke the wrath of the gods; but it does not appear that anything beyond this religious sanction existed to guard the rights of a traveler. Similar customs seem to have existed among the Italian peoples. Amongst the Romans, private hospitality, which had existed from the earliest times, was more accurately and legally defined than amongst the Greeks, the tie between host and guest being almost as strong as that between patron and client. It was of the nature of a contract, entered into by mutual promise, the clasping of hands, and exchange of an agreement in writing (\"tabula hospitalis\") or of a token (tessera or symbolum), and was rendered hereditary by the division of the tessera. The advantages thus obtained by the guest were, the right of hospitality when traveling and, above all, the protection of his host (representing him as his patron) in a court of law. The contract was sacred and inviolable, undertaken in the name of Jupiter Hospitalis, and could only be dissolved by a formal act.\n\nThis private connection developed into a custom according to which a state appointed one of the citizens of a foreign state as its representative Proxenos (πρόξενος) to protect any of its citizens travelling or resident in his country. Sometimes an individual came forward voluntarily to perform these duties on behalf of another state \"etheloproxenos\" (ἐθελοπρόξενος). The proxenus is generally compared to the modern consul or minister resident. His duties were to afford hospitality to strangers from the state whose proxenus he was, to introduce its ambassadors, to procure them admission to the assembly and seats in the theatre, and in general to look after the commercial and political interests of the state by which he had been appointed to his office.\n\nMany cases occur where such an office was hereditary; thus the family of Callias at Athens were proxeni of the Spartans. We find the office mentioned in a Corcyraean inscription dating probably from the 7th century BC, and it continued to grow more important and frequent throughout Greek history. There is no proof that any direct emolument was ever attached to the office, while the expense and trouble entailed by it must often have been very great. Probably the honors which it brought with it were sufficient recompense. These consisted partly in the general respect and esteem paid to a proxenus, and partly in many more substantial honors conferred by special decree of the state whose representative he was, such as freedom from taxation and public burdens, the right of acquiring property in Attica, admission to the senate and popular assemblies, and perhaps even full citizenship.\n\nPublic hospitium seems also to have existed among the Italian races; but the circumstances of their history prevented it from becoming so important as in Greece. Cases, however, occur of the establishment of public hospitality between two cities (Rome and Caere, Livy v. 50), and of towns entering into a position of clientship to some distinguished Roman, who then became patronus of such a town. Foreigners were frequently granted the right of public hospitality by the senate down to the end of the republic. The public \"hospes\" had a right to entertainment at the public expense, admission to sacrifices and games, the right of buying and selling on his own account, and of bringing an action at law without the intervention of a Roman patron.\n\nA full bibliography of the subject will be found in the article in Daremberg and Saglio, \"Dictionnaire des antiquités\", to which may be added Rudolf von Jhering. \"Die Gastfreundschaft im Altertum\" (1887); see also Smith's \"Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities\" (3rd ed., 1890).\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the term was extended, across Europe, to refer to the building or complex of buildings attached to a monastery, where pilgrims and other lesser guests could find hospitality or \"hospitium\", including dormitory-based accommodation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10128004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10128004", "title": "Inevitable disclosure", "text": "Inevitable disclosure\n\nInevitable disclosure is a legal doctrine through which an employer can claim trade secret to enjoin a former employee from working in a job that may result in the use of trade secrets without the need for proof or evidence. \n\nThe inevitable-disclosure doctrine is one's means in demonstrating a revelation of trade secrets, and some have recently found some renewed judicial support. Where it is acceptable, the doctrine allows the court to find that a former employee would disclose proprietary information in their position with a new employer, even if there is no evidence of actual disclosure. Thus, allowing a company to make a critical showing, when it can't do so if required to come forward with evidence of misconduct. However, because it also rests on a prediction about a future harm, inevitable disclosure also is in tension with the general principle that injunctive relief will not be given to prevent a conjectural injury at any means.\n\n"}
{"id": "55003162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55003162", "title": "Infant crying", "text": "Infant crying\n\nInfant crying is the crying of infants as a response to an internal or external stimulus. Infants cry as a form of basic instinctive communication. Essentially, newborns are transitioning from life in the womb to the external environment. Up to 27% of parents describe problems with infant crying in the first four months. Up to 38% identify a problem with their infant crying within the first year. Parents can be concerned about the amount of time that their infant cries, how the infant can be consoled, and disrupted sleeping patterns. Colic is used as a synonym for excessive crying of infants, even though colic may not be the cause of excessive crying.\n\nCrying may elicit the Valsalva reflex. This reflex negatively impacts sucking pressures and results in poor feeding. The cortisol levels will rise along with blood pressure. Increased blood pressure will have an effect on cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood flow velocity and intracranial pressure. Increased pressures and velocity can lead to intracranial hemmorrhage. Prolonged exhalation may also cause some adverse effects. Obstructed venous return and quick inspiratory gasp can occur. Foramen ovale shunting can occur. Adults can often determine whether an infant's cries signify anger or pain. Most parents also have a better ability to distinguish their own infant's cries than those of a different child. Babies mimic their parents' pitch contour. French infants wail on a rising note while German infants favor a falling melody. Overstimulation may be a contributing factor to infant crying and that periods of active crying might serve the purpose of discharging overstimulation and helping the baby’s nervous system regain homeostasis.\n\nMisconceptions regarding the purpose of crying in the infant are common among caregivers and medical personnel. These are usually determined by cultural mores and not by evidence-based explanations. The crying of an infant is regarded by some to be normal and good. The belief that infants have a need to cry to expand or exercise their lungs is not supported by research. This is because a healthy newborn infant lung's are able to contain a sufficient amount of air plus a reserve. Birth trauma is related to the amount of crying. Mothers who had experienced obstetrical interventions or who were made to feel powerless during birth had babies who cried more than other babies. Babies who had experienced birth complications had longer crying spells at three months of age and awakened more frequently at night crying. When infants cry for no obvious reason after all other causes (such as hunger or pain) are ruled out, the crying may signify a beneficial stress-release mechanism, not all sources agree with this. The \"crying-in-arms\" approach is a way to comfort these infants. Another way of comforting and calming the baby is to mimic the familiarity of the mother’s womb. Consistency and promptness of maternal response is associated with a decline in frequency and duration of crying by the end of the first year individual differences in crying reflect the history of maternal responsiveness rather than constitutional differences in infant irritability. Online training to address the educational needs of the parents of the infant and caregivers in understanding and handling of infant crying.\n\nThough colic is often assumed to be the cause of excessive crying in infants, there are others:\n\nThe term 'colic' was defined in 1954 as: \" crying for more than three hours per day, for more than three days per week, and for more than three weeks in an infant that is well-fed and otherwise healthy.\" Colic and excessive crying by infants is synonymous to some clinicians. Colic is attributed to gastrointestinal discomfort like intestinal cramping. Clinicians often admit that colic can't be treated or that alternative treatments are ineffective. The protocol followed by clinicians to treat colic is described as \"treating the parents\" with reassurance.\n\nCrying in infants is associated with high stress levels and depression in mothers. Excessive crying has also been linked to maternal \"physical aggression\" and \"angry speaking\". The burden of care of the mother, that is, mothers without assistance in caring for the infant, are more prone to physical aggression and angry speaking. During evaluations of maternal depression responses to infant crying, sleeping problems are closely associated with excessive crying and may confound the conclusions of such research. Also, it is not always clear that when sleeping problems are associated with infant crying, whether the sleeping problems are descriptive of the mother or the infant or both. Maternal stress is associated with excessive crying.\n\nOne definition used to study excessive crying in infants is crying for three or more hours per 24 hours. Excessive infant crying has been associated with a twofold increased risk of the overall problem behavior, conduct problems, hyperactivity, and mood problems at the age of 5–6. Excessive infant crying doubles the risk of behavioral, hyperactivity, and mood problems at the age of 5–6, as reported by their mother. Excessive crying is not the only factor in later childhood difficulties. Behavioral problems in childhood include the so-called regulatory problems, such as excessive crying, sleeping, and feeding problems, which occur in 20% of infants in multiproblem families. Excessive crying, whining and sleeping problems at 4–6 months are associated with decreased social development at 12 months.\n\nSeveral factors may contribute to, and partly explain, an association between excessive infant crying and later behavioral and emotional problems. During early infancy, the quality of the mother–child dyad can be considered to be a crucial vehicle for child’s healthy mental development. Both early maternal and early paternal reciprocity in infancy are predictive of social competence and lower aggression in preschoolers.\n\nCompared to other infants, excessive crying infants had a slightly lower birth weight and a slightly younger gestational age. Excessive crying infants more often had a single, lower educated mother, originating from a non-industrialized country, who reported more depression, a higher burden of infant care, and more aggressive behavior and had an authoritarian parenting style. Excessive crying was associated with a higher risk for hyperactivity/inattention problems, emotional symptoms, conduct problems, peer relationship problems, and overall problem behavior at the age of 5–6, as well as a higher risk for decreased pro-social behavior as reported by the mother. Excessive crying was also associated with mood problems as well as generalized anxiety problems at the age of 5–6.\n\nThe physical abuse of infants is related to crying. Crying may be related to the abusive head trauma in infants. This is the most common cause of child abuse death. Fathers are often the ones who shake the infant. Shaking may occur many times. This shaking can cause serious injuries in almost 50% of the time. Some caregivers are unaware that shaking the baby can seriously harm or kill the infant. This type of abuse is being addressed by efforts to educate parents and caregivers with educational flyers and videos.\n\nInfant crying is worse in the first few months of life, but improves as the child grows. A baby can sometimes be calmed by rocking gently, offering a pacifier, singing or talking softly, taking a walk with a stroller, or going for a drive in the car. If a baby won’t stop crying, it can be sick and seen by a doctor. Frustration and stress can be overwhelming for those with a crying infant. If caregivers feel as if they may lose control there are preventative measures that can be taken. The caregiver may benefit by calling a friend, relative, neighbor, or parent helpline for support. Another suggestion is to put the baby in a safe place and walk away. The baby can be checked every 5 to 10 minutes. \nBabies may be in danger if a person who is easily irritated or has a temper or history of violence cares for or watches the baby.\n\nWhen \"normal\" causes of excessive crying are ruled out, some caregivers adopt alternative and complementary treatments for excessive crying. Those practices include: \n\nThose who realize that an infant can be in a situation where abuse is a possibility, support can be offered to give a parent or caregiver a break when needed. Education and understanding can let the parent know that dealing with a crying baby can be very frustrating—especially when they are tired or stressed, but infant crying is normal and it will pass. Parents can be encouraged to take a calming break if needed while the baby is safe in the crib. Others can be sensitive and supportive in situations when parents are trying to calm a crying baby.\n"}
{"id": "244568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=244568", "title": "Injective cogenerator", "text": "Injective cogenerator\n\nIn category theory, the concept of an injective cogenerator is drawn from examples such as Pontryagin duality. Generators are objects which cover other objects as an approximation, and (dually) cogenerators are objects which envelope other objects as an approximation. When working with unfamiliar algebraic objects, one can use these to approximate with the more familiar.\n\nMore precisely:\n\n\nAssuming one has a category like that of abelian groups, one can in fact form direct sums of copies of \"G\" until the morphism\n\nis surjective; and one can form direct products of \"C\" until the morphism\n\nis injective.\n\nFor example, the integers are a generator of the category of abelian groups (since every abelian group is a quotient of a free abelian group). This is the origin of the term \"generator\". The approximation here is normally described as \"generators and relations.\"\n\nAs an example of a \"cogenerator\" in the same category, we have Q/Z, the rationals modulo the integers, which is a divisible abelian group. Given any abelian group \"A\", there is an isomorphic copy of \"A\" contained inside the product of |A| copies of Q/Z. This approximation is close to what is called the \"divisible envelope\" - the true envelope is subject to a minimality condition.\n\nFinding a generator of an abelian category allows one to express every object as a quotient of a direct sum of copies of the generator. Finding a cogenerator allows one to express every object as a subobject of a direct product of copies of the cogenerator. One is often interested in projective generators (even finitely generated projective generators, called progenerators) and minimal injective cogenerators. Both examples above have these extra properties.\n\nThe cogenerator Q/Z is useful in the study of modules over general rings. If \"H\" is a left module over the ring \"R\", one forms the (algebraic) character module \"H\"* consisting of all abelian group homomorphisms from \"H\" to Q/Z. \"H\"* is then a right R-module. Q/Z being a cogenerator says precisely that \"H\"* is 0 if and only if \"H\" is 0. Even more is true: the * operation takes a homomorphism\n\nto a homomorphism\n\nand \"f\"* is 0 if and only if \"f\" is 0. It is thus a faithful contravariant functor from left \"R\"-modules to right \"R\"-modules.\n\nEvery \"H\"* is pure-injective (also called algebraically compact). One can often consider a problem after applying the * to simplify matters.\n\nAll of this can also be done for continuous modules \"H\": one forms the topological character module of continuous group homomorphisms from \"H\" to the circle group R/Z.\n\nThe Tietze extension theorem can be used to show that an interval is an injective cogenerator in a category of topological spaces subject to separation axioms.\n"}
{"id": "39677049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39677049", "title": "Internal–external distinction", "text": "Internal–external distinction\n\nThe internal–external distinction is a distinction used in philosophy to divide an ontology into two parts: an internal part consisting of a linguistic framework and observations related to that framework, and an external part concerning practical questions about the utility of that framework. This division was introduced by Rudolf Carnap in his work \"Empiricism, Semantics, and Ontology\". It was subsequently criticized at length by Willard Van Orman Quine in a number of works, and was considered for some time to have been discredited. However, recently a number of authors have come to the support of some or another version of Carnap's approach.\n\nCarnap introduced the idea of a 'linguistic framework' or a 'form of language' that uses a precise specification of the definitions of and the relations between entities. The discussion of a proposition within a framework can take on a logical or an empirical (that is, factual) aspect. The logical aspect concerns whether the proposition respects the definitions and rules set up in the framework. The empirical aspect concerns the application of the framework in some or another practical situation.\n\nThe utility of a linguistic framework constitutes issues that Carnap calls 'external' or 'pragmatic'.\n\nThe distinction between 'internal' and 'external' arguments is not as obvious as it might appear. For example, discussion of the imaginary unit \"might\" be an internal question framed in the language of complex numbers about the correct usage of , or it be a question about the utility of complex numbers: whether there is any practical advantage in using . Clearly the question of utility is not completely separable from the way a linguistic framework is organized. A more formal statement of the internal-external difference is provided by Myhill:\nQuine disputed Carnap's position from several points of view. His most famous criticism of Carnap was \"Two dogmas of empiricism\", but this work is not directed at the internal-external distinction but at the analytic-synthetic distinction brought up by Carnap in his work on logic: \"Meaning and Necessity\". Quine's criticism of the internal-external distinction is found in his works \"On Carnap's views on Ontology\" and \"Word and Object\".\n\nQuine's approach to the internal-external division was to cast internal questions as \"subclass\" questions and external questions as \"category\" questions. What Quine meant by 'subclass' questions were questions like \"what are so-and-so's?\" where the answers are restricted to lie within a specific linguistic framework. On the other hand, 'category' questions were questions like \"what are so-and-so's?\" asked outside any specific language where the answers are not so-restricted. The term \"subclass\" arises as follows: Quine supposes that a particular linguistic framework selects from a broad \"category\" of meanings for a term, say \"furniture\", a particular or subclass of meanings, say \"chairs\".\n\nQuine argued that there is always possible an overarching language that encompasses both types of question and the distinction between the two types is artificial.\nSo we can switch back and forth from internal to external questions just by a shift of vocabulary. As Thomasson puts it, if our language refers to 'things' we can ask of all the \"things\" there are, are any of them \"numbers\"; while if our language includes only 'numbers', we can ask only narrower questions like whether any \"numbers\" are \"prime numbers\". In other words, Quine's position is that \"Carnap's main objection to metaphysics rests on an unsupported premise, namely the assumption that there is some sort of principled plurality in language which blocks Quine's move to homogenize the existential quantifier.\" \"What is to stop us treating all ontological issues as internal questions within a single grand framework?\"\n\nA view close to Quine’s subclass/category description is called ‘’conceptual relativity’’. To describe conceptual relativity, Putnam points out that while the pages of a book are regarded as part of book when they are attached, they are things-in-themselves if they are detached. My nose is only part of an object, my person. On the other hand, is my nose the same as the collection of atoms or molecules forming it? This arbitrariness of language is called conceptual relativity, a matter of conventions. The point is made that if one wishes to refer only to 'pages', then books may not exist, and \"vice versa\" if one wishes to admit only to books. Thus, in this view, the Carnapian multiplicity of possible linguistic frameworks proposes a variety of 'realities' and the prospect of choosing between them, a form of what is called ontological pluralism, or multiple realities. The notion of 'one reality' behind our everyday perceptions is common in everyday life, and some find it unsettling that what 'exists' might be a matter of what language one chooses to use. This belief, however, is rendered somewhat plastic by the fact that we cannot see this underlying 'reality' directly, raising a philosophical issue called the subject–object problem.\n\nA related idea is quantifier variance. Loosely speaking a 'quantifier expression' is just a function that says \"there exists at least one such-and-such\". Then 'quantifier variance' combines the notion that the same object can have different names, so the quantifier may refer to the same thing even though different names are employed by it, and the notion that quantifier expressions can be formed in a variety of ways. Hirsch says this arbitrariness over what 'exists' is a quandary only due to Putnam's formulation, and it is resolved by turning things upside down and saying things that exist can have different names. In other words, Hirsch agrees with Quine that there is an overarching language that we can adapt to different situations. The Carnapian internal/external distinction in this view, as with the subclass/category distinction, is just a matter of language, and has nothing to do with 'reality'.\n\nMore recently, some philosophers have stressed that the real issue is not one of language as such, but the difference between questions asked \"using\" a linguistic framework and those asked somehow before the adoption of a linguistic framework, the difference between questions about the construction and rules of a framework, and questions about the decision whether to use a framework. This distinction is called by Thomasson and Price the difference between ‘’using’’ a term and ‘’mentioning’’ a term. As Price notes, Carnap holds that there is a mistake involved in \"assimilating issues of the existence of numbers (say) and of the existence of physical objects...the distinctions in question are not grounded at the syntactical level.\" Price suggests a connection with Ryle's view of different functions of language:\nAlthough not supporting an entire lack of distinction like the subclass/category view of Quine, as a \"pragmatic\" issue, the use/mention distinction still does not provide a sharp division between the issues of forming and conceptualizing a framework and deciding whether to adopt it: each informs the other. An example is the well-known tension between mathematicians and physicists, the one group very concerned over questions of logic and rigor, and the other inclined to sacrifice a bit of rigor to explain observations.\n\nOne approach to selecting a framework is based upon an examination of the conceptual relations between entities in a framework, which entities are more 'fundamental'. One framework may then 'include' another because the entities in one framework apparently can be derived from or 'supervene' upon those in the more fundamental one. While Carnap claims such decisions are pragmatic in nature, external questions with no philosophical importance, Schaffer suggests we avoid this formulation. Instead, we should go back to Aristotle and look upon nature as hierarchical, and pursue philosophical \"diagnostics\": that is, examination of criteria for what is fundamental and what relations exist between all entities and these fundamental ones. But \"how can we discover what grounds what?...questions regarding not only what grounds what, but also what the grounding consists in, and how one may discover or discern grounding facts, seem to be part of an emerging set of relational research problems in metaphysics.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23159516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23159516", "title": "Lean services", "text": "Lean services\n\nLean services is the application of the lean manufacturing concept to service operations. It is distinct in that \"Lean services\" are not concerned with the making of ‘hard’ products.\n\nTo date, Lean principles of Continuous Improvement and Respect for People have been applied to all manner of services including call center services, health care, higher education, software development, and public and professional services. Conceptually, these implementations follow very similar routes to those in manufacturing settings, and often use some of the same tools and techniques. There are, however, many significant distinctions and the same tools can be applied in different ways.\n\n\"Service\" in this context is not limited to the office or administration, but also wider service situations that are not necessarily repetitive, where task time is not applicable, and where task times may be both long and variable. Service in this context could mean anything from a hospital to a university, from an office process to a consultancy, and from a warehouse to field service maintenance. \"Service\" refers to the service concept or product service bundle, which are all the activities that provide value to the customer along a value stream.\n\nLean Service has its origin in the Toyota Production System (see Lean manufacturing). Lean in the Service sector is subject itself to continuous improvement, and as such there are an increasing number of concepts that may or may not be included as part of Lean Service.\n\nThe original seven wastes (\"muda\") were defined by Taiichi Ohno, the father of the Toyota Production System. These wastes have been often redefined to better fit new organisations, industries, or external pressures.\n\nOne redefinition of these wastes for service operations by Bicheno and Holweg (2009) is as follows:\n\n\nOne of the central concepts that distinguishes lean services from lean manufacturing is the distinction between \"Value Demand\" and \"Failure Demand\" (Seddon, 2003).\n\n\"Value Demand\" is the demand for service from customers, while Failure Demand is the demand caused by a failure to do something right for the customer. Failure demand is thus demand that only exists because initial demand was not satisfied properly. For example, a large proportion of calls that call centers receive are either chasing down enquiries made earlier, or to correct earlier work that was not done properly. As one of the key aims of \"Lean\" is to eliminate waste, Failure Demand represents an obvious type of waste in service organizations.\n\nFailure demand can also be defined as \"the delivery or production of products and services downstream as a result of defects in the system upstream.\"(Shillingburg, 2011) This would include administrative rework, audits, inspections and enquires. This non value-added work can account for the majority of administrative work performed.\n\nBy treating failure and value demand alike in statistical analysis, failure demand can give the quite false impression of greater productivity. This merely reinforces the need to look at what is really going on, and ask why the service is being rendered.\n\nIn recent years, some practitioners have combined Lean and Six Sigma principles to yield a methodology commonly known as Lean Six Sigma. One of the earliest adopters of this is Honeywell, which calls its program Six Sigma Plus. Like some other practitioners, GE has developed a very rigorous Lean Six Sigma training program in which certain employees are chosen to become certified in this area.\n\nMore recently it is being argued that the application of lean manufacturing tools and techniques have seriously damaged the service organizations that Lean has been applied to. John Seddon (visiting professor Sheffield University) has been especially vocal and critical of lean in his paper \"Rethinking Lean Service\".\n\nThe application of Lean Tools and techniques has led to serious problems in many service organisations, including Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs (HMRC) and even Starbucks.\n\n5S has been widely and successfully applied in office environments, however this has received some criticism for resulting in workplaces that are too clinical or impersonal.\n\nCritics of Lean Service have suggested that problems arise when companies try to apply \"Lean principles\" to areas where creativity, ability to react to rapid external changes, need to spend an extensive amount of time to convince external parties (typically lobbying) or ability to successfully negotiate are needed; and that the downsides of Lean are reduced / eliminated creativity and ability to cope with the unexpected.\n\nProponents of Lean Service, however, suggest that these criticisms are a response to Lean implementations that have failed to properly understand Lean as a holistic, action based management and implementation system to provide enhanced customer value, a \"Tools\" mentality instead of an outcomes orientation and an inadequate knowledge of how to utilize and adapt Lean Manufacturing methods to the service environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44984115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44984115", "title": "Life Cube Project", "text": "Life Cube Project\n\nThe Life Cube Project is a community interactive art installation based upon the creator's idea that if you write something down, it is far more likely to happen. The Life Cube installation encourages members of the community and the general public to decorate it with inspirational writing, paintings, drawings, murals, and tapestries for all its visitors to see. Through four iterations at the annual Burning Man festival in 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2015; thousands of participants touched, climbed, inscribed, painted, and added their personal visions to the Life Cube. In 2014, the Life Cube Project made its way out of Burning Man and into its first major city in the United States as experiential and interactive art.\n\nOver the course of three years, and returning as an Honorarium project in 2015, the Artist and his project team designed, built, and burned Life Cubes at Burning Man. The first Life Cube, an eight-foot square, was planned in 2010 and erected in 2011, and the artist was motivated to build another version of the Life Cube the following year. In 2012, its dimensions expanded to sixteen feet, enhanced by writable surfaces for greater interactivity and a more creative and graphic external skin. The third Cube came together in 2013. It featured a more complex and compelling multi-level architectural design with a pillared facade, more surfaces for writing and drawing, a tapestry wall, colored strobes and spotlights, and giant painted murals.\n\nIn 2013, artist Scott Cohen was invited by the Downtown Project to develop the Life Cube Project for Las Vegas.\n\nIn January 2014, a Life Cube was constructed on an entire city block in the East Fremont district of downtown Las Vegas. Open to the public 24/7, local artists and members of the community painted all of its surfaces. The Life Cube was covered in constantly evolving and overlapping murals, hosting handwritten and painted messages from its visitors who wrote their personal hopes and dreams on \"wish-stick\" postcards and dropped them inside. Locally owned shops, bars, and restaurants joined with the Gay and Lesbian Community Center, churches, and Las Vegas’ City Hall in the project’s goal-setting theme to their constituencies through the satellite cube program. On the night of March 21, the Cube burned in a ceremony involving thousands of participants and viewers.\n\nThe Life Cube returned to downtown Las Vegas in March 2016 and burned on April 2, 2016 in yet another celebration.\n\nIn 2015, a non-burning metal and glass Life Cube was featured at the Reno Sculpture Fest. The 12’ sculpture included murals, Tapestry Walls, and art and wishes contributed by 1,000s of schoolchildren with outreach to prison inmates, recovering addicts, and challenged youth. Unlike previous Cubes, where \"Wish-Stick\" postcards were placed inside and burned, this Cube featured a Wish-Tag Wall, where participants wrote on colorful tags tied to the Cube for others to read.\n\nThe Life Cube was also featured in Yerington, NV in 2015 for a non-burning installation created specifically for the Mason Valley Boys and Girls Club. This installation included a Tapestry Wall consisting of 1,500 8′ by 8′ canvas panels and a Wish-Tag Wall created by students, teachers, staff, and volunteers from nine middle schools and high schools in the area. During this installation, artist Scott Cohen was also invited to speak at the Youth of the Year banquet to encourage students to follow their hopes, wishes, and dreams.\n\nIn October 2016, the Life Cube Project was featured in its first New York installation at the Riverdale School in Bronx, NY. The 12' Cube remained on Jones Lawn for over a week inviting students, parents, faculty, and other visitors to paint, draw, write, and collaborate. This Cube did not burn, but the evolving and inspiring art on the structure invited dozens of participants nonetheless.\n\nThe Life Cube Project was invited to El Paso, TX from October 6 - 8, 2017 for the 10th anniversary of the annual Chalk the Block arts festival, organized by the City of El Paso Museum and Cultural Affairs Department (MCAD). The artist, Scott Cohen, spent ten days leading up to the installation visiting over 20 local schools to talk to students about goal-setting and connecting art with community. He spoke to youth from military families at Fort Bliss as well as folks at Opportunity house, a local shelter. Following these artist talks and workshops, the 12' x 12' brushed metal and canvas Life Cube installation was erected on San Jacinto Square, in the heart of the Arts District of downtown El Paso, and was open to the general public for three days. The Life Cube for Chalk the Block El Paso included all the elements of its signature approach to connecting art and community: live-painting of murals by several local artists, Dream Tags, a Tapestry Wall featuring canvases created by thousands of El Paso students, and—of course—chalk.\n\nDesigned and implemented expressly for the Las Vegas Life Cube Project, nearly one hundred four-foot cubes were distributed to various venues where they were decorated by local artists, teachers, and children of all ages in establishments and schools throughout the Valley. Satellite cubes were gathered and returned to the Life Cube site for the final burn, combining their accumulated wishes with those of the Life Cube.\n\nThe burn usually takes place as a closing ceremony for the Life Cube. The Las Vegas Cubes required the assistance and support of the Las Vegas Fire Department, an expert burn master, a burn perimeter team, a plethora of municipal permits, event organizers, a traffic plan, engineering, fire safety and air quality reports, cleanup crews, and additional provisions for security, hygiene, and disposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "20392542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20392542", "title": "March on Washington Movement", "text": "March on Washington Movement\n\nThe March on Washington Movement (MOWM), 1941–1946, organized by activists A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin as a tool to produce a mass march on Washington, D.C., was designed to pressure the U.S. government into desegregating the armed forces and providing fair working opportunities for African Americans. When President Roosevelt issued Executive Order 8802 in 1941, prohibiting discrimination in the defense industry under contract to federal agencies, Randolph and collaborators called off the march.\n\nRandolph continued to promote non-violent actions to advance goals for African Americans. Future civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. and other younger men were strongly influenced by Randolph and his ideals and methods.\n\nIn the lead-up to the United States' entry into World War II, African Americans resented calls to \"defend democracy\" against Nazi racism while having to deal with discrimination in all sectors of life and business in the United States, especially the South, where they had been disenfranchised since the turn of the century and oppressed by Jim Crow laws.\n\nBy the fall of 1940, the American economy was emerging from the Depression. The defense boom benefited whites, but black workers were denied opportunities because of widespread racial discrimination in employment. Some government training programs excluded blacks based on their being refused entry to defense industries, and many skilled black workers with proper training were unable to gain employment. In 1940 the president of the North American Aviation Co. was quoted as saying, \"While we are in complete sympathy with the Negro, it is against company policy to employ them as aircraft workers or mechanics ... regardless of their training... There will be some jobs as janitors for Negroes.\" It was in this climate that activists began to develop the March on Washington Movement.\n\nThe March on Washington Movement was an attempt to pressure the United States government and President Franklin D. Roosevelt into establishing policy and protections against employment discrimination as the nation prepared for war. A. Philip Randolph was the driving force behind the movement, with allies from the NAACP and other civil rights organizations. He had formed and led the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters beginning in 1925. His leadership in the March on Washington Movement, in which organizing middle and lower class members would be so important, was based on his strong experience in grassroots and union organizing. Randolph's independence from white sources of power was shown when he said of the movement, \"If it costs money to finance a march on Washington, let Negroes pay for it. If any sacrifices are made for Negro rights in national defense, let Negroes make them...\"\n\nRandolph's leadership and strategy defined the nature of the March on Washington Movement. His reliance on grassroots activism and African-American media and organizations was influenced by his childhood. His father was an African Methodist Episcopal (AME) preacher, and Randolph heard numerous parishioners complain about the state of race relations and discrimination. He and his brother were privately tutored, and raised to believe that they were \"as intellectually competent as any white\". On September 26, 1942, after the MOWM had succeeded in gaining an Executive Order against discrimination in industry, Randolph reiterated that the fight would continue despite these gains. He said, \"Unless this war sound the death knell to the old Anglo-American empire systems, the hapless story of which is one of exploitation for the profit and power of a monopoly-capitalist economy, it will have been fought in vain.\"\n\nThe Women's Auxiliary was a group of mostly wives and relatives of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters. They were active within the MOWM primarily in fundraising and community efforts, as well as working broadly to promote ideas of \"concepts of black manhood, female respectability, and class consciousness.\"\n\nEarly lobbying efforts to desegregate the military previous to 1941 did not persuade President Roosevelt to take action. On September 27, 1940, the first delegation composed of A. Philip Randolph, Walter White (NAACP), and T. Arnold Hill (National Urban League), met with President Roosevelt and his top officials. The delegation presented a memorandum demanding immediate integration of all blacks in the armed services. The White House issued a statement saying, \"The policy of the War Department is not to intermingle colored and white enlisted personnel in the same regimental organizations.\" The armed forces were not integrated until 1948, under President Harry S. Truman.\n\nConcerned that traditional meetings were not effective, on January 25, 1941, A. Philip Randolph officially proposed a March on Washington to \"highlight the issue.\" In the following months, chapters of the MOWM began to organize for a mass march scheduled for July first of that year. During the spring, organizers estimated they could attract 100,000 marchers for the event.\n\nA week before the march was to take place, Mayor Fiorello La Guardia of New York City met with MOWM leadership to inform them of the president's intentions to issue an executive order establishing the first Fair Employment Practices Committee (FEPC) that would prohibit discrimination in federal vocational and training programs. Before the order was signed, the MOWM demanded also that it included a provision for desegregation of war industries. Roosevelt agreed and issued Executive Order 8802, which prohibited discrimination in federal vocational and training programs, and in employment in defense industries contracting with the government. Given this major victory, Randolph agreed to cancel the march. He continued the March on Washington Movement as a way to maintain an organization that could track and lobby for progress, and hold the FEPC to its mission.\n\nThe MOWM continued rallies throughout the summer on these issues, but the high water mark had passed. The movement's continued call for nonviolent civil disobedience alienated some black organizations, such as the NAACP, whose leaders withdrew some support. Although organized to bring about the 1941 march on Washington, the MOWM operated until 1947; its representatives collaborated with other groups to continue pressure on the federal government. In 1943 Roosevelt issued Executive Order 9346, which expanded coverage of the FEPC to federal agencies beyond those in defense.\n\nRandolph continued to promote non-violent actions to advance goals for African Americans. Future civil rights leader Martin Luther King, Jr. and other younger men were strongly influenced by his methods.\n\nWhile mainstream media had a role in reporting on the movement, African-American media outlets covered it most thoroughly. Early in the spring of 1941, black newspapers expressed skepticism of the movement's ambitious goals to attract tens of thousands of marchers. The \"Chicago Defender\" worried whether even \"2,000 Negroes would march\".\n\nTheir tone changed, however, as the date of the march approached. By May, black newspapers reported on growing support for the march; \"The Amsterdam News\" of New York City ran the front page headline: \"100,000 in March to Capitol.\" If it was simply a tactic of bluffing, the same tactic was shared by black press as a whole. \"The Chicago Defender\" by that time reported \"50,000 preparing for a March for jobs and justice\".\n\nThe MOWM had an uneasy relationship with communist organizations in the U.S. Communists supported the idea of a proletariat uprising but \"they constantly drew a line between the 'job-march' and its 'war-mongering leadership.'\" Randolph used various tactics to avoid having communists be part of the March on Washington Movement, as he knew it caused difficulties in gaining support for the larger goals of African Americans. He restricted membership to African Americans; although black Communists might participate, only a small percentage of the disciplined Communist party members were black.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58783166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58783166", "title": "Marty Rosenbluth", "text": "Marty Rosenbluth\n\nMarty Rosenbluth is an immigration lawyer and civil rights activist.\n\nRosenbluth is a native of New York who attended University of North Carolina School of Law. He is Jewish and has said he lost many members of his family during The Holocaust. He volunteered for Amnesty International and spent seven years in the West Bank as an advocate for Palestinians who were prohibited by the government from working. He helped produce the award-winning documentary \"Jerusalem: An Occupation Set In Stone?\" in 1995, which detailed Israel's urban planning policies and the effects they had on Palestinians. He started the non-profit North Carolina Immigration Rights Project to help immigrants in the Durham, North Carolina area. He served as an associate of Polanco Law PC in Raleigh, North Carolina.\n\nHe was part of a group of civil rights activists, including Rose Hamid, who protested Donald Trump campaign rallies in 2016 to protest Trump's treatment of Muslims. He designed the \"Go Yellow Against Hate\" star badges to accompany the protests. in 2016 he also provided free legal services to Syrian refugees.\n\nIn 2017 following the inauguration of President Trump, he moved from Hillsborough, North Carolina to Lumpkin, Georgia. Lumpkin has a detention center near the Alabama border and Rosenbluth decided to help refugees being detained there because there were no other lawyers in town, and the closest other lawyers were 140 miles away in Atlanta. According to a 2015 study, only about 6% of detainees had a lawyer to represent them. Rosenbluth unsuccessfully tried to lure other lawyers to town by offering a spare bedroom in his two bedroom house.\n"}
{"id": "251534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251534", "title": "Middle class", "text": "Middle class\n\nThe middle class is a class of people in the middle of a social hierarchy. The very definition of the term \"middle class\" is highly political and vigorously contested by various schools of political and economic philosophy. Modern social theorists - and especially economists (with widely divergent open and hidden political motivations behind their arguments) - have defined and re-defined the term \"middle class\" in order to serve their particular political ends. The definitions of the term \"middle class\" therefore are the result of the more- or less-scientific methods used when delineating the parameters of what is and isn't \"middle class\". \n\nIn Weberian socioeconomic terms, the middle class is the broad group of people in contemporary society who fall socio-economically between the working class and upper class. The common measures of what constitutes middle class vary significantly among cultures. One of the narrowest definitions limits it to those in the middle fifth of the nation's income ladder. A wider characterization includes everyone but the poorest 20% and the wealthiest 20%.\n\nIn modern American vernacular usage, the term \"middle class\" is most often used as a self-description by those persons whom academics and Marxists would otherwise identify as the working class which are below both the upper class and the true middle class, but above those in poverty. This leads to considerable ambiguity over the meaning of the term \"middle class\" in American usage. Sociologists such as Dennis Gilbert and Joseph Kahl see this American self-described \"middle class\" (i.e. working class) as the most populous class in the United States.\n\nThe term \"middle class\" is first attested in James Bradshaw's 1745 pamphlet \"Scheme to prevent running Irish Wools to France.\" Another phrase used in Early modern Europe was \"the middling sort\".\n\nThe term \"middle class\" has had several, sometimes contradictory, meanings. Friedrich Engels saw the category in Marxist terms as an intermediate social class between the nobility and the peasantry of Europe in late-feudalist society. While the nobility owned the countryside, and the peasantry worked the countryside, a new \"bourgeoisie\" (literally \"town-dwellers\") arose around mercantile functions in the city. In France, the middle classes helped drive the French Revolution. This \"middle class\" eventually overthrew the ruling monarchists of feudal society, thus becoming the new ruling class or bourgeoisie in the new capitalist-dominated societies.\n\nThe modern usage of the term \"middle-class\", however, dates to the 1913 UK Registrar-General's report, in which the statistician T.H.C. Stevenson identified the middle class as that falling between the upper-class and the working-class. Included as belonging to the middle-class are: professionals, managers, and senior civil servants. The chief defining characteristic of membership in the middle-class is possession of significant human capital.\n\nWithin capitalism, \"middle-class\" initially referred to the \"bourgeoisie\"; later, with the further differentiation of classes in the course of development of capitalist societies, the term came to be synonymous with the term \"petite bourgeoisie\". The boom-and-bust cycles of capitalist economies result in the periodical and more or less temporary impoverisation and proletarianisation of much of the \"petit bourgeois\" world resulting in their moving back and forth between working-class and petit-bourgeois status. The typical modern definitions of \"middle class\" tend to ignore the fact that the classical petit-bourgeoisie is and has always been the owner of a small-to medium-sized business whose income is derived almost exclusively from the employment of workers; \"middle class\" came to refer to the combination of the labour aristocracy, the professionals, and the salaried white collar workers.\n\nThe size of the middle class depends on how it is defined, whether by education, wealth, environment of upbringing, social network, manners or values, etc. These are all related, but are far from deterministically dependent. The following factors are often ascribed in modern usage to a \"middle class\":\n\nIn the United States by the end of the twentieth century, more people identified themselves as middle-class than as lower or \"working\" class (with insignificant numbers identifying themselves as upper-class). The Labour Party in the UK, which grew out of the organised labour movement and originally drew almost all of its support from the working-class, reinvented itself under Tony Blair in the 1990s as \"New Labour\", a party competing with the Conservative Party for the votes of the middle-class as well as those of the Labour Party's traditional group of voters - the working-class. By 2011 almost three-quarters of British people were found to identify themselves as middle-class.\n\nIn Marxism, which defines social classes according to their relationship with the means of production, the \"middle class\" is said to be the class below the ruling class and above the proletariat in the Marxist social schema and is synonymous with the term \"petit-\" or \"petty-bourgeoisie\". Marxist writers have used the term in two distinct but related ways. In the first sense it is used for the bourgeoisie, the urban merchant and professional class that arose between the aristocracy and the proletariat in the waning years of feudalism in the Marxist model. V. I. Lenin, stated that the \"peasantry ... in Russia constitute eight- or nine-tenths of the petty bourgeoisie\". However, in modern developed countries, Marxist writers define the \"petite bourgeoisie\" as primarily comprising, as the name implies, owners of small to medium-sized businesses who derive their income from the exploitation of wage-laborers (and who are in turn exploited by the \"big\" bourgeoisie i.e. bankers, owners of large corporate trusts, etc.) as well as the highly educated professional class of doctors, engineers, architects, lawyers, university professors, salaried middle-management of capitalist enterprises of all sizes, etc. – as the \"middle class\" which stands between the ruling capitalist \"owners of the means of production\" and the working class (whose income is derived solely from hourly wages). \n\nPioneer 20th century American Marxist theoretician Louis C. Fraina (Lewis Corey) defined the middle class as \"the class of independent small enterprisers, owners of productive property from which a livelihood is derived.\" Included in this social category, from Fraina's perspective, were \"propertied farmers\" but not propertyless tenant farmers. Middle class also included salaried managerial and supervisory employees but not \"the masses of propertyless, dependent salaried employees. Fraina speculated that the entire category of salaried employees might be adequately described as a \"new middle class\" in economic terms, although this remained a social grouping in which \"most of whose members are a new proletariat\".\n\nAccording to Christopher B. Doob, a sociology writer, the middle-class grooms each future generation to take over from the previous one. He states that, to do this the middle class have almost developed a system for turning children of the middle-class into successful citizens. Allegedly those who are categorized under the American middle-class give education great importance, and value success in education as one of the chief factors in establishing the middle-class life. Supposedly the parents place a strong emphasis on the significance of quality education and its effects on success later in life. He believes that the best way to understand education through the eyes of middle-class citizens would be through social reproduction as middle-class parents breed their own offspring to become successful members of the middle-class. Members of the middle-class consciously use their available sources of capital to prepare their children for the adult world.\n\nThe middle-class childhood is often characterized by an authoritative parenting approach with a combination of parental warmth, support and control. Parents set some rules establishing limits, but overall this approach creates a greater sense of trust, security, and self-confidence. \n\nIn addition to an often authoritative parenting style, middle-class parents provide their children with valuable sources of capital. \n\nParents of middle-class children make use of their social capital when it comes to their children's education as they seek out other parents and teachers for advice. Some parents even develop regular communication with their child's teachers, asking for regular reports on behavior and grades. When problems do occur, middle-class parents are quick to \"enlist the help of professionals when they feel their children need such services\". The middle-class parents' involvement in their children's schooling underlines their recognition of its importance.\n\nIn 1977 Barbara Ehrenreich and her then husband John defined a new class in United States as \"salaried menial workers who do not own the means of production and whose major function in the social division of labor ... [is] ... the reproduction of capitalist culture and capitalist class relations\"; the Ehrenreichs named this group the \"professional-managerial class\".\nThis group of middle-class professionals are distinguished from other social classes by their training and education (typically business qualifications and university degrees), with example occupations including academics and teachers, social workers, engineers, managers, nurses, and middle-level administrators. The Ehrenreichs developed their definition from studies by André Gorz, Serge Mallet, and others, of a \"new working class\", which, despite education and a perception of themselves as being middle class, were part of the working class because they did not own the means of production, and were wage earners paid to produce a piece of capital. The professional-managerial class seeks higher rank status and salary, and tend to have incomes above the average for their country.\n\nCompare the term \"managerial caste\".\n\nIt is important to understand that modern definitions of the term \"middle class\" are often politically motivated and vary according to the exigencies of political purpose which they were conceived to serve in the first place as well as due to the multiplicity of more- or less-scientific methods used to measure and compare \"wealth\" between modern advanced industrial states (where poverty is relatively low and the distribution of wealth more egalitarian in a relative sense) and in developing countries (where poverty and a profoundly unequal distribution of wealth crush the vast majority of the population). Many of these methods of comparison have been harshly criticised; for example, economist Thomas Piketty, in his book \"Capital in the Twenty-First Century\", describes one of the most commonly used comparative measures of wealth across the globe – the Gini coefficient – as being an example of \"synthetic indices ... which mix very different things, such as inequality with respect to labor and capital, so that it is impossible to distinguish clearly among the multiple dimensions of inequality and the various mechanisms at work.\"\n\nIn February 2009, \"The Economist\" asserted that over half the world's population now belongs to the middle class, as a result of rapid growth in emerging countries. It characterized the middle class as having a reasonable amount of discretionary income, so that they do not live from hand to mouth as the poor do, and defined it as beginning at the point where people have roughly a third of their income left for discretionary spending after paying for basic food and shelter. This allows people to buy consumer goods, improve their health care, and provide for their children's education. Most of the emerging middle class consists of people who are middle-class by the standards of the developing world but not the rich one, since their money incomes do not match developed country levels, but the percentage of it which is discretionary does. By this definition, the number of middle-class people in Asia exceeded that in the West sometime around 2007 or 2008.\n\n\"The Economist\" article pointed out that in many emerging countries the middle class has not grown incrementally, but explosively. The point at which the poor start entering the middle class by the millions is alleged to be the time when poor countries get the maximum benefit from cheap labour through international trade, before they price themselves out of world markets for cheap goods. It is also a period of rapid urbanization, when subsistence farmers abandon marginal farms to work in factories, resulting in a several-fold increase in their economic productivity before their wages catch up to international levels. That stage was reached in China some time between 1990 and 2005, when the Chinese \"middle class\" grew from 15% to 62% of the population, and is just being reached in India now.\n\n\"The Economist\" predicted that surge across the poverty line should continue for a couple of decades and the global middle class will grow enormously between now and 2030. \nBased on the rapid growth, scholars expect the global middle class to be the driving force for sustainable development. This assumption, however, is contested.\n\nAs the American middle class is estimated by some researchers to comprise approximately 45% of the population, \"The Economist\" article would put the size of the American middle class below the world average. This difference is due to the extreme difference in definitions between \"The Economist\" and many other models.\n\nIn 2010, a working paper by the OECD asserted that 1.8 billion people were now members of the global \"middle class\". Credit Suisse's Global Wealth Report 2014, released in October 2014, estimated that one billion adults belonged to the \"middle class\", with wealth anywhere between the range of $10,000–$100,000.\n\nAccording to a study carried out by the Pew Research Center, a combined 16% of the world's population in 2011 were \"upper-middle income\" and \"upper income\".\n\nIn 2012, the \"middle class\" in Russia was estimated as 15% of the whole population. Due to sustainable growth, the pre-crisis level was exceeded. In 2015, research from the Russian Academy of Sciences estimated that around 15% of the Russian population are \"firmly middle class\", while around another 25% are \"on the periphery\".\n\nA study by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS) estimated that 19% of Chinese were middle class in 2003, including any household with assets worth between $18,000 and $36,000.\n\nAccording to a 2011 report by National Council for Applied Economic Research of India, India's middle class population is expected to increase from 160 million to 267 million in 2016, 20.3% of the country's total population. Further ahead, by 2025-26 the number of middle class households in India is likely to more than double to 547 million individuals. Another estimate put the Indian middle class as numbering 475 million people by 2030.\n\nAccording to a 2014 study by Standard Bank economist Simon Freemantle, a total of 15.3 million households in 11 surveyed African nations are middle-class. These include Angola, Ethiopia, Ghana, Kenya, Mozambique, Nigeria, South Sudan, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. In South Africa, a report conducted by the Institute for Race Relations in 2015 estimated that between 10%-20% of South Africans are middle class, based on various criteria. An earlier study estimated that in 2008 21.3% of South Africans were members of the middle class.\n\nA study by EIU Canback indicates 90% of Africans fall below an income of $10 a day. The proportion of Africans in the $10–$20 middle class (excluding South Africa), rose from 4.4% to only 6.2% between 2004 and 2014. Over the same period, the proportion of \"upper middle\" income ($20–$50 a day) went from 1.4% to 2.3%.\n\nAccording to a 2014 study by the German Development Institute, the middle class of Sub-Saharan Africa rose from 14 million to 31 million people between 1990 and 2010.\n\nAccording to a study by the World Bank, the number of Latin Americans who are middle class rose from 103m to 152m between 2003 and 2009.\n\nThe American middle class is smaller than middle classes across Western Europe, but its income is higher, according to a recent Pew Research Center analysis of the U.S. and 11 European nations.\n\nThe median disposable (after-tax) income of middle-class households in the U.S. was $60,884 in 2010. With the exception of Luxembourg – a virtual city-state where the median income was $71,799 – the disposable incomes of middle-class households in the other 10 Western European countries in the study trailed well behind the American middle class.\n\nThe numbers below reflect the middle, upper, and lower share of all adults by country by net wealth (not income). Middle class is defined here for the US as those adults with a net wealth of between USD 50,000 and USD 500,000 in mid 2015. Purchasing power parity is used to adjust these number for other countries. Unlike that of the upper class, wealth of the middle and lowest quintile consists substantially of non-financial assets, specifically home equity. Factors which explain differences in home equity include housing prices and home ownership rates. According to the OECD, the vast majority of financial assets in every country analysed is found in the top of the wealth distribution. \n\n\n\nOther:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23340612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23340612", "title": "N-ary group", "text": "N-ary group\n\nIn mathematics, and in particular universal algebra, the concept of n\"-ary group (also called n\"-group or multiary group) is a generalization of the concept of group to a set \"G\" with an \"n\"-ary operation instead of a binary operation. By an \"n\"-ary operation is meant any set map \"f: G → G\" from the \"n\"-th Cartesian power of \"G\" to \"G\". The axioms for an \"n\"-ary group are defined in such a way that they reduce to those of a group in the case . The earliest work on these structures was done in 1904 by Kasner and in 1928 by Dörnte; the first systematic account of (what were then called) polyadic groups was given in 1940 by Emil Leon Post in a famous 143-page paper in the \"Transactions of the American Mathematical Society\".\n\nThe easiest axiom to generalize is the associative law. Ternary associativity is the polynomial identity , i.e. the equality of the three possible bracketings of the string \"abcde\" in which any three consecutive symbols are bracketed. (Here it is understood that the equations hold for arbitrary choices of elements \"a,b,c,d,e\" in \"G\".) In general, \"n\"-ary associativity is the equality of the \"n\" possible bracketings of a string consisting of \"n\"+(\"n\"-1) = \"2n-1\" distinct symbols with any \"n\" consecutive symbols bracketed. A set \"G\" which is closed under an associative \"n\"-ary operation is called an n\"-ary semigroup. A set \"G\" which is closed under any (not necessarily associative) \"n\"-ary operation is called an n\"-ary groupoid.\n\nThe inverse axiom is generalized as follows: in the case of binary operations the existence of an inverse means has a unique solution for \"x\", and likewise has a unique solution. In the ternary case we generalize this to , and each having unique solutions, and the \"n\"-ary case follows a similar pattern of existence of unique solutions and we get an \"n\"-ary quasigroup.\n\nAn \"n\"-ary group is an \"n\"-ary semigroup which is also an \"n\"-ary quasigroup.\n\nIn the 2-ary case, i.e. for an ordinary group, the existence of an identity element is a consequence of the associativity and inverse axioms, however in n-ary groups for n ≥ 3 there can be zero, one, or many identity elements.\n\nAn \"n\"-ary groupoid (\"G\", \"ƒ\") with \"ƒ\" = (\"x\" ◦ \"x\" ◦ . . . ◦ \"x\"), where (\"G\", ◦) is a group is called reducible or derived from the group (\"G\", ◦). In 1928 Dörnte published the first main results: An \"n\"-ary groupoid which is reducible is an \"n\"-ary group, however for all \"n\" > 2 there exist \"n\"-ary groups which are not reducible. In some \"n\"-ary groups there exists an element \"e\" (called an \"n\"-ary identity or neutral element) such that any string of \"n\"-elements consisting of all \"e\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s, apart from one place, is mapped to the element at that place. E.g., in a quaternary group with identity \"e\", \"eeae\" = \"a\" for every \"a\".\n\nAn \"n\"-ary group containing a neutral element is reducible. Thus, an \"n\"-ary group that is not reducible does not contain such elements. There exist \"n\"-ary groups with more than one neutral element. If the set of all neutral elements of an \"n\"-ary group is non-empty it forms an \"n\"-ary subgroup.\n\nSome authors include an identity in the definition of an \"n\"-ary group but as mentioned above such \"n\"-ary operations are just repeated binary operations. Groups with intrinsically \"n\"-ary operations do not have an identity element.\n\nThe axioms of associativity and unique solutions in the definition of an \"n\"-ary group are stronger than they need to be. Under the assumption of \"n\"-ary associativity it suffices to postulate the existence of the solution of equations with the unknown at the start or end of the string, or at one place other than the ends; e.g., in the 6-ary case, \"xabcde\"=\"f\" and \"abcdex\"=\"f\", or an expression like \"abxcde\"=\"f\". Then it can be proved that the equation has a unique solution for \"x\" in any place in the string.\nThe associativity axiom can also be given in a weaker form.\n\nThe following is an example of a three element ternary group, one of four such groups\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29797800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29797800", "title": "NAACP in Kentucky", "text": "NAACP in Kentucky\n\nNAACP in Kentucky is very active with branches all over the state, largest being in Louisville and Lexington. The Kentucky State Conference of NAACP continues today to fight against injustices and for the equality of all people.\n\nThe National Association for the Advancement of Colored People was founded in 1909 as a civil rights organization for African-Americans during some of the most violent times of segregation in the United States. With locations across the United States, it grew to ensure the rights for all people within the country no matter race or ethnicity: \"to fight for social justice for all Americans.\". Branches are set up in different states and work together for the common goal of equality. There are also different branches within the states. In Kentucky, there are over 55 branches located throughout the entire state.\n\nKentuckians played a large role in the NAACP. William English Walling from Louisville, Kentucky (1877–1936), an American labor reformer and socialist educated at the University of Chicago, the Hull House and Harvard Law School, brought his interest in women's rights to his work with the American Federation of Labor and founded the National Women's Trade Union League. A few years later, the Springfield Race Riot of 1908 in Illinois informed his work with Mary White Ovington and Henry Moskowitz to form the NAACP.\n\nThe Kentucky branch of the NAACP gained national recognition as early as 1940 in Louisville, Kentucky. The NAACP had already supported several court cases to protest the unequal pay of African Americans teachers. Vallateen Virginia Dudley Abbington (1907–2003), one of several school teachers in Louisville who petitioned against the differential in pay, became a plaintiff in a NAACP suit argued by Thurgood Marshall that led to the removal of a 15 percent salary discrepancy between black and white teachers in the Louisville public schools. The case, Abbington v Board of Education of Louisville (KY), filed on December 5, 1940, caused the School board to agree to equal pay, but only if Mrs. Abbington from Jackson Junior High School dropped the lawsuit. The lawsuit was dropped and the salaries of teachers in Louisville no longer differed on the basis of race.\n\nThe Kentucky branch of the NAACP also fought against other discrimination through the civil rights movement and beyond. In the case of Eilers \"v.\" Eilers, attorney James Crumlin, Sr. of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, helped Anna sue for custody of her five children from her ex-husband, George Eilers of Jefferson County, Kentucky. In 1964 Eilers had successfully sued his former wife (a white woman from New Haven, Kentucky) after she married Marshall C. Anderson, an African American man, gaining custody of their children since interracial marriage was illegal in Kentucky at the time. Another important leadership role of the NAACP in Kentucky was in the 1970s when the NAACP of Louisville and the Kentucky Civil Liberties Union worked together to fight segregation in the Jefferson County Public Schools.\n\nWomen had leadership roles in the state and local branches. Osceola A. Dawson served as secretary to the Kentucky NAACP and Audrey Grevious was the president of the Lexington Chapter. Other accomplishments within the NAACP included the first woman prosecutor in Kentucky (1964), Alberta Jones, who also was the first African American woman to pass the Kentucky Bar (1959). With the help of Julia Etta Lewis, Grevious was able to join the Lexington Congress of Racial Equality together to increase their efforts towards equality. Other notable African American women in Kentucky's NAACP throughout history include:\n\nWomen within the Kentucky branches of the NAACP also received several notable awards in the organization such as the NAACP Magistrate Daniel Massie award for NAACP Involvement Above and Beyond the Call of Duty and the NAACP Herman E. Floyd Award along with other community awards for their participation. Women in the NAACP also helped to organize fundraisers and other events to help fund their causes and struggle.\n\nFor more information on each of the branches below, see the national NAACP website.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34987714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34987714", "title": "Naïve realism (psychology)", "text": "Naïve realism (psychology)\n\nIn social psychology, naïve realism is the human tendency to believe that we see the world around us objectively, and that people who disagree with us must be uninformed, irrational, or biased. \n\nNaïve realism provides a theoretical basis for several other cognitive biases, which are systematic errors when it comes to thinking and making decisions. These include the false consensus effect, actor-observer bias, bias blind spot, and fundamental attribution error, among others.\n\nThe term, as it is used in psychology today, was coined by social psychologist Lee Ross and his colleagues in the 1990s. It is related to the philosophical concept of naïve realism, which is the idea that our senses allow us to perceive objects directly and without any intervening processes. Social psychologists in the mid-20th century argued against this stance and proposed instead that perception is inherently subjective.\n\nSeveral prominent social psychologists have studied naïve realism experimentally, including Lee Ross, Andrew Ward, Dale Griffin, Emily Pronin, Thomas Gilovich, Robert Robinson, and Dacher Keltner. In 2010, the \"Handbook of Social Psychology\" recognized naïve realism as one of \"four hard-won insights about human perception, thinking, motivation and behavior that ... represent important, indeed foundational, contributions of social psychology.\"\n\nLee Ross and fellow psychologist Andrew Ward have outlined three interrelated assumptions, or \"tenets,\" that make up naïve realism. They argue that these assumptions are supported by a long line of thinking in social psychology, along with several empirical studies. According to their model, people:\n\nNaïve realism follows from a subjectivist tradition in modern social psychology, which traces its roots back to one of the field's founders, a German-American psychologist named Kurt Lewin. Lewin's ideas were strongly informed by Gestalt psychology, a 20th-century school of thought which focused on examining psychological phenomena in context, as parts of a whole.\n\nFrom the 1920s through the 1940s, Lewin developed an approach for studying human behavior which he called field theory. Field theory proposes that a person's behavior is a function of the person and the environment. Lewin considered a person's psychological environment, or \"life space,\" to be subjective and thus distinct from physical reality.\n\nDuring this time period, subjectivist ideas also propagated throughout other areas of psychology. For example, Jean Piaget, a developmental psychologist, argued that children view the world through an egocentric lens, and they have trouble separating their own beliefs from the beliefs of others.\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, early pioneers in social psychology applied the subjectivist view to the field of social perception. In 1948, psychologists David Kretch and Richard Krutchfield argued that people perceive and interpret the world according to their \"own needs, own connotations, own personality, own previously formed cognitive patterns.\"\n\nSocial psychologist expanded on this idea, noting how biases in person perception lead to misunderstandings in social relations. According to Ichheiser, \"We tend to resolve our perplexity arising out of the experience that other people see the world differently than we see it ourselves by declaring that these others, in consequence of some basic intellectual and moral defect, are unable to see things 'as they really are' and to react to them 'in a normal way.' We thus imply, of course, that things are in fact as we see them, and that our ways are the normal ways.\"\n\nSolomon Asch, a prominent social psychologist who was also brought up in the Gestalt tradition, argued that people disagree because they base their judgments on different construals, or ways of looking at various issues. However, they are under the illusion that their judgments about the social world are objective. \"This attitude, which has been aptly described as naive realism, sees no problem in the fact of perception or knowledge of the surroundings. Things are what they appear to be; they have just the qualities that they reveal to sight and touch,\" he wrote in his textbook \"Social Psychology\" in 1952. \"This attitude, does not, however, describe the actual conditions of our knowledge of the surroundings.\"\n\nIn a seminal study in social psychology, which was published in a paper in 1954, students from Dartmouth and Princeton watched a video of a heated football game between the two schools. Though they looked at the same footage, fans from both schools perceived the game very differently. The Princeton students \"saw\" the Dartmouth team make twice as many infractions as their own team, and they also saw the team make twice as many infractions compared to what the Dartmouth students saw. Dartmouth students viewed the game as being evenly-matched in violence, in which both sides were to blame. This study revealed that two groups perceived an event subjectively. Each team believed they saw the event objectively and that the other side's perception of the event was blinded by bias.\n\nA 1977 study conducted by Ross and colleagues provided early evidence for a cognitive bias called the false consensus effect, which is the tendency for people to overestimate the extent to which others share the same views. This bias has been cited as supporting the first two tenets of naïve realism. In the study, students were asked whether they would wear a sandwich-board sign, which said \"Eat At Joe's\" on it, around campus. Then they were asked to indicate whether they thought other students were likely to wear the sign, and what they thought about students who were either willing to wear it or not. The researchers found that students who agreed to wear the sign thought that the majority of students would wear the sign, and they thought that refusing to wear the sign was more revealing of their peers' personal attributes. Conversely, students who declined to wear the sign thought that most other students would also refuse, and that accepting the invitation was more revealing of certain personality traits.\n\nA phenomenon referred to as the hostile media effect demonstrates that partisans can view neutral events subjectively according to their own needs and values, and make the assumption that those who interpret the event differently are biased. For a study in 1985, pro-Israeli and pro-Arab students were asked to watch real news coverage on the 1982 Sabra and Shatila massacre, a massive killing of Palestinian refugees (Vallone, Lee Ross and Lepper, 1985). Researchers found that partisans from both sides perceived the coverage as being biased in favor of the opposite viewpoint, and believed that the people in charge of the news program held the ideological views of the opposite side.\n\nMore empirical evidence for naïve realism came from psychologist Elizabeth Newton's \"musical tapping study\" in 1990. For the study, participants were designated either as \"tappers\" or as \"listeners.\" The tappers were told to tap out the rhythm of a well-known song, while the \"listeners\" were asked to try to identify the song. While tappers expected that listeners would guess the tune around 50 percent of the time, the listeners were able to identify it only around 2.5 percent of the time. This provided support for a failure in perspective-taking on the side of the tappers, and an overestimation of the extent to which others would share in \"hearing\" the song as it was tapped.\n\nIn 1993, Ross and Steven Samuels asked dorm resident advisors to nominate students to participate in a study, and to indicate whether those students were likely to cooperate or defect in the first round of the classic decision-making game called the Prisoner's Dilemma. The game was introduced to subjects in one of two ways: it was either referred to as the \"Wall Street Game\" or as the \"Community Game.\" The researchers found that students in the \"Community Game\" condition were twice as likely to cooperate, and that it did not seem to make a difference whether students were previously categorized as \"cooperators\" versus \"defectors.\" This experiment demonstrated that the game's label exerted more power on how the students played the game than the subjects' personality traits. Furthermore, the study showed that the dorm advisors did not make sufficient allowances for subjective interpretations of the game.\n\nNaïve realism causes people to exaggerate differences between themselves and others. Psychologists believe that it can spark and exacerbate conflict, as well as create barriers to negotiation through several different mechanisms.\n\nOne consequence of naïve realism is referred to as the bias blind spot, which is the ability to recognize cognitive and motivational biases in others while failing to recognize the impact of bias on the self. In a study conducted by Pronin, Lin, and Ross (2002), Stanford students completed a questionnaire about various biases in social judgment. They indicated how susceptible they thought they were to these biases compared to the average student. The researchers found that the participants consistently believed that they were less likely to be biased than their peers. In a follow-up study, students answered questions about their personal attributes (e.g. how considerate they were) compared to those of other students. The majority of students saw themselves as falling above average on most traits, which provided support for a cognitive bias known as the better-than-average effect. Next, the students learned that 70 to 80 percent of people fall prey to this bias. When asked about the accuracy of their self-assessments, 63 percent of the students argued that their ratings had been objective, while 13 percent of students indicated they thought their ratings had been too modest.\n\nWhen an individual does not share our views, the third tenet of naïve realism attributes this discrepancy to three possibilities. The individual either has been exposed to a different set of information, is lazy or unable to come to a rational conclusion, or is under a distorting influence such as bias or self-interest. This gives rise to a phenomenon called false polarization, which involves interpreting others' views as more extreme than they really are, and leads to a perception of greater intergroup differences (see Fig. 1). People assume that they perceive the issue objectively, carefully considering it from multiple views, while the other side processes information in top-down fashion. For instance, in a study conducted by Robinson et al. in 1996, pro-life and pro-choice partisans greatly overestimated the extremity of the views of the opposite side, and also overestimated the influence of ideology on others in their own group.\n\nThe assumption that others' views are more extreme than they are can create a barrier for conflict resolution. In a sidewalk survey conducted in the 1980s, pedestrians evaluated a nuclear arms' disarmament proposal (Stillinger et al., 1991). One group of participants was told that the proposal was made by American President Ronald Reagan, while others thought the proposal came from Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev. The researchers found that 90 percent of the participants who thought the proposal was from Reagan supported it, while only 44 percent in the Gorbachev group indicated their support. This provided support for a phenomenon called reactive devaluation, which involves dismissing a concession from an adversary on the assumption that the concession is either motivated by self-interest or less valuable.\n\n"}
{"id": "37830837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37830837", "title": "Non Violent Resistance (psychological intervention)", "text": "Non Violent Resistance (psychological intervention)\n\nNon Violent Resistance (NVR) is a psychological approach for overcoming destructive, aggressive, controlling and risk-taking behaviour. It was originally developed to address serious behaviour problems in young people, although it is now also being utilised in many different areas, such as adult entitled dependence, anxiety-related problems, problems linked to paediatric illness, internet dependency and misuse, and domestic violence perpetrated by adults.\n\nEmpirical research is on-going and relatively new. However, the outcome studies carried out so far has shown it to be effective for reducing childhood violence and aggression, improved relationships within the family, as well as increasing parents’ confidence levels and improving parental mental health.\n\nNVR's principles are based on the socio-political practice of nonviolent resistance (or nonviolent action), which refers to achieving goals through nonviolent methods, such as symbolic protests, civil disobedience, and economic or political noncooperation. The modern leading father of nonviolent resistance as a form of political struggle is Mahatma Gandhi, the Indian leader who used peaceful protests to seek independence from the British. NVR draws upon the approaches used by Gandhi to develop interventions aimed at the violent or self-destructive behaviour of young people who act in controlling ways. More recently, the practice of NVR has spawned the concept of the “anchoring function of attachment”, a contribution to attachment theory which emphasises the child's need to become secure in the relationship with a ‘strong and wise adult’, as well as the conceptualisation of the “New Authority”, which is based on principles such as transparency, inter-personal closeness, accountability of the adult within the community, rather than the principles of positional power, hierarchy and distance which marked more traditional forms of authority.\n\nAs a therapeutic or coaching process, NVR involves the individual's family, and generally extends to include family friends, professionals, schools and members of the community in its network. The approach believes parents, carers or teachers overcome their isolation by adopting such a large support network, and drawing on interpersonal support. A course of NVR lasts for about 3 months, or longer in more serious cases. Parents or carers of the aggressive young person typically attend one session with an NVR practitioner weekly, and may receive additional support such as telephone calls 1-2 times a week initially, gradually reducing as the intervention progresses. The violent child does not have to participate; NVR has been designed specifically to help families in which a young person does not cooperate in the therapeutic process. It is thought that the parents’ perseverance in the face of the child's non-cooperation sends a message of resistance.\n\nThe purposes of NVR is to help adults develop a positive form of authority, develop effective, non-punitive strategies of addressing the young person's controlling behaviour without escalation, restore a sense of balance in the family, and improve family relationships. NVR is a stable alternative to violent conflict and unproductive attempts at verbal persuasion.\n\nThe intervention is used for a variety of aggressive people, including children, adolescents and adults. It is currently used with children in care, children with mental health issues, and people with Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD). The methods are concrete, specific, and are not overly reliant on the spoken word, which is why the approach is offered to families of people with ASD. The techniques can also be easily adapted into story boards and other methods, which may help the child understand what changes are being made to resist their behaviour.\n\nThe intervention is based on a number of principles and assumptions. Most young people who act in defiant, aggressive or violent ways do this to control others around them. A key element of NVR is an understanding of the concept of ‘parental (or adult) presence.’ This refers to an awareness of the person of the parent and their authority at home, in school, and when the child is with their peers. It also includes parents not being pushed aside, and regaining their parental space in the family unit. Practitioners find that parents of violent children often feel helpless and isolated, and claim this is largely due to a lowered parental presence. NVR aims to increase the parents’ presence in their child's mind, and to reduce the parent's helplessness. One necessary measure in achieving this is the development of an adult support network. This is an essential element in this therapeutic process, where supporters in the network play vital roles, such as mentor, mediator, witness and protector. Some of the other methods for raising parental presence are briefly mentioned in the next section.\n\nAnother important principle in NVR is that of a delayed reaction: this refers to ‘striking when the iron is cold,’ or not reacting immediately to a situation, which avoids escalation. Instead, the issue is dealt with later at the resistor's choosing. This gives back power to the parent, and helps them regain parental authority and presence.\nFinally, the therapy works on the premise of using action, not words. This is particularly useful when NVR is applied to people with ASD, who struggle with social communication.\n\nThe approach endeavours to help parents gain authority. This is achieved through supporting parents to become active in four main areas:\n\nDe-escalation refers to refusing to be drawn into a battle with the other (escalation). Escalation can be symmetrical where parent and child each attempt to gain control over the other and raise levels of aggression in an upward spiral, or complementary, where parents give in to child demands or the threat of violence or other controlling responses and acquiesce to the child. In each case, the parents are believed to lose more of their authority, and family members are weakened and left more vulnerable. By developing strategies to manage risk with an NVR practitioner, the aim is that parents can build up their authority without getting involved in fruitless power struggles.\n\nThe parents seen in NVR therapy often attempt to “keep the peace” by following rules explicitly or implicitly set in place by their child. It is important to break the rules, in order to resist the violence. Parents therefore learn to break the rules that their child has set up; this ‘parental disobedience,’ is a key principle of the approach.\n\nNVR does not rely mainly on punishments or consequences for reducing unacceptable behaviours, but instead on increasing the parents ability to become present and resist aggressive or self-risk behaviours.\n\nReconciliation gestures play an important role in the therapy process. The purpose of the gestures is to show the young person that their families care for and love them. The gestures are also thought to help the individual and their parents relate to one another beyond the aggression, and reestablish a loving connection.\n\nIt is believed within the NVR field that when young people have experienced physical or sexual child abuse or neglect, their aggressive or dismissive behaviour can mask vulnerability, such as anxiety or fear, and/or an unmet need. Some areas of unmet needs are said to be:\n\n\nThe child's behavioural problems divert the attention of adult and child away from any unmet need and vulnerability. NVR claims that by raising their own sense of agency and strength in resisting the destructive behaviour, and then using their efforts at reconciliation to address the child's unmet needs, the adults can re-sensitise themselves for the child's distress and re-instate themselves in a caring position.\n\nNVR uses a variety of methods, many of which are outlined in the NVR parents’ manual. The resistance process is developed step by step with the NVR practitioner, in order to increase the parents’, carers’ or teachers’ confidence. Initially, the intervention begins with a written announcement; the therapist or NVR coach/practitioner supports and guides the parents and/or other adults in writing and planning how to carry out the announcement without escalation or engaging in unproductive communication.\n\nA support network is developed by the parents with the aid of a NVR practitioner throughout the process. The aim of this is to help them to remove the secrecy and expose the violence, and help them to feel supported in their actions. The support network also plays a role in carrying out action, such as participating in ‘sit ins,’ where parents and supporters sit in with the child after an aggressive incident and express their expectation that the child will develop a solution to the violence. Parents are encouraged to document acts of violence or self-destructive acts, as well as their own behaviour and responses around these, and to pass this information on to their supporters, in order to enable public accountability for their own and the young person's behaviour.\n\nThe supporters also play a role in a ‘campaign of concern’ or ‘message campaign,’ by contacting the young person and expressing their concern for them and others affected by their aggression. This is done to reinforce the parents’ or carers’ message of resistance.\n\nAfter any demonstration of resistance to the child's aggression, adults use reconciliation gestures to communicate their unconditional care, respect and love for the young person.\n\nFurther techniques are the telephone round and tailing, which are used as methods for raising adult presence where young people withdraw from their families into dangerous environments. Parents and other adults use these and other methods, draw upon their inter-personal resources, to effectively resist their child's violence and self-destructive behaviour by raising parental (adult) presence.\n\nNVR can be utilised with a range of difficulties such as anxiety and aggression in young people on the autistic spectrum, Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) and other severe anxiety-related problems, when the child does not collaborate in treatment. NVR is now being used for self-isolation, adult entitled dependency, and a variety of other problem areas.\n\nRecently NVR has been developed as an intervention in a variety of different settings, such as residential care and foster care (Jakob and van Holen, in process). It is also being developed for other problematic areas, such as childhood obesity and chronic paediatric illness.\n\nNVR is a relatively new intervention amongst other psychological interventions. It was developed by Haim Omer and colleagues at the University of Tel Aviv, to support parents/carers in developing effective resistance against violence.\n\nNVR is widely used in Israel, Germany and a number of other European countries. In the English – speaking world, it has been mainly introduced to the UK.\n\nReviews indicate that systemic and multi-modal approaches are effective in decreasing destructive behaviour in adolescents with behavioural problems. The NVR approach applies traditions of Systemic (Family) Therapy, involving family members and institutions surrounding the individual in the therapy process, and change is brought about through the interactions between them.\n\nNVR has its roots in the philosophy and methods of socio-political nonviolent resistance, such as those used by Mahatma Gandhi and Martin Luther King. Gandhi practised and advocated non-violence when leading protests against those seeking to oppress him and his fellow men and women. He famously spoke out about non-violently fighting the British without arms, through being peaceful and non-retaliatory. The principle of non-violently resisting a child's controlling behaviour derives from the same ideas and beliefs. Gandhi also promoted solidarity, which is one of the aims the supporters’ network strives to evoke in the parents.\n\nFinally, the stance of de-escalation and refusal to be drawn into conflict can be summed up by a famous quote from Gandhi: “An eye for an eye makes the whole world blind”. It is these non-violent beliefs that provided the foundation for NVR.\n\nNVR has an emerging evidence base. A recent study showed that NVR was highly effective at improving the problematic behaviour of a large percentage of young people, with no differences between children and adolescents. It was further found that NVR reduced parents’ feelings of helplessness, increased their confidence, and it also improved parental mental health. Parental escalation also decreased within the first four months of the intervention. There was also a very low drop-out rate: over 90% of all families completed the programme.\n\nA study conducted in Germany compared NVR against TEEN Triple-P (a parenting programme for parents of teenagers) and a waiting list group. It was found that the TEEN triple-P and NVR groups showed significant improvements in parenting behaviour, parental presence, reduced parental depression and helplessness. NVR was superior to TEEN Triple-P in showing significant improvements in the 11- to 18-year-old children's externalising behaviour problems, assessed by Achenbach's. Child Behaviour Checklist (CBCL).\n\nFinally, research has shown an improvement in reduced parental submission, fewer power struggles and improvements in children's behaviour.\n\nPresently, there is a Randomized controlled trial (RCT) of NVR for looked after children being conducted in Belgium (Opvang).\n\nNonviolent Resistance\n\nMahatma Gandhi\n\nMartin Luther King\n\nFamily Therapy\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1448784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1448784", "title": "Ordinal utility", "text": "Ordinal utility\n\nIn economics, an ordinal utility function is a function representing the preferences of an agent on an ordinal scale. The ordinal utility theory claims that it is only meaningful to ask which option is better than the other, but it is meaningless to ask \"how much\" better it is or how good it is. All of the theory of consumer decision-making under conditions of certainty can be, and typically is, expressed in terms of ordinal utility.\n\nFor example, suppose George tells us that \"I prefer A to B and B to C\". George's preferences can be represented by a function \"u\" such that:\nBut the only meaningful message of this function is the order formula_2; the actual numbers are meaningless. Hence, George's preferences can also be represented by the following function \"v\":\nThe functions \"u\" and \"v\" are ordinally equivalent – they represent George's preferences equally well.\n\nOrdinal utility contrasts with cardinal utility theory: the latter assumes that the differences between preferences are also important. In \"u\" the difference between A and B is much smaller than between B and C, while in \"v\" the opposite is true. Hence, \"u\" and \"v\" are \"not\" cardinally equivalent.\n\nThe ordinal utility concept was first introduced by Pareto in 1906.\n\nSuppose the set of all states of the world is formula_4 and an agent has a preference relation on formula_4. It is common to mark the weak preference relation by formula_6, so that formula_7 reads \"the agent wants B at least as much as A\".\n\nThe symbol formula_8 is used as a shorthand to the indifference relation: formula_9, which reads \"The agent is indifferent between B and A\".\n\nThe symbol formula_10 is used as a shorthand to the strong preference relation: formula_11, which reads \"The agent strictly prefers B to A\".\n\nA function formula_12 is said to \"represent\" the relation formula_6 if:\n\nInstead of defining a numeric function, an agent's preference relation can be represented graphically by indifference curves. This is especially useful when there are two kinds of goods, \"x\" and \"y\". Then, each indifference curve shows a set of points formula_15 such that, if formula_16 and formula_17 are on the same curve, then formula_18.\n\nAn example indifference curve is shown below:\n\nEach indifference curve is a set of points, each representing a combination of quantities of two goods or services, all of which combinations the consumer is equally satisfied with. The further a curve is from the origin, the greater is the level of utility.\n\nThe slope of the curve (the negative of the marginal rate of substitution of X for Y) at any point shows the rate at which the individual is willing to trade off good X against good Y maintaining the same level of utility. The curve is convex to the origin as shown assuming the consumer has a diminishing marginal rate of substitution. It can be shown that consumer analysis with indifference curves (an ordinal approach) gives the same results as that based on cardinal utility theory — i.e., consumers will consume at the point where the marginal rate of substitution between any two goods equals the ratio of the prices of those goods (the equi-marginal principle).\n\nRevealed preference theory addresses the problem of how to observe ordinal preference relations in the real world. The challenge of revealed preference theory lies in part in determining what goods bundles were foregone, on the basis of them being less liked, when individuals are observed choosing particular bundles of goods.\nSome conditions on formula_6 are necessary to guarantee the existence of a representing function:\n\n\nWhen these conditions are met and the set formula_4 is finite, it is easy to create a function formula_29 which represents formula_10 by just assigning an appropriate number to each element of formula_4, as exemplified in the opening paragraph. The same is true when X is countably infinite. Moreover, it is possible to inductively construct a representing utility function whose values are in the range formula_32.\n\nWhen formula_4 is infinite, these conditions are insufficient. For example, lexicographic preferences are transitive and complete, but they cannot be represented by any utility function. The additional condition required is continuity.\n\nA preference relation is called \"continuous\" if, whenever B is preferred to A, small deviations from B or A will not reverse the ordering between them. Formally, a preference relation on a set X is called continuous if it satisfies one of the following equivalent conditions:\n\n\nIf a preference relation is represented by a continuous utility function, then it is clearly continuous. By the theorems of Debreu (1954), the opposite is also true: \n\nNote that the lexicographic preferences are not continuous. For example, formula_53, but in every ball around (5,1) there are points with formula_54 and these points are inferior to formula_55. This is in accordance with the fact, stated above, that these preferences cannot be represented by a utility function.\n\nFor every utility function \"v\", there is a unique preference relation represented by \"v\". However, the opposite is not true: a preference relation may be represented by many different utility functions. The same preferences could be expressed as \"any\" utility function that is a monotonically increasing transformation of \"v\". E.g., if\n\nwhere formula_57 is \"any\" monotonically increasing function, then the functions \"v\" and \"v\" give rise to identical indifference curve mappings.\n\nThis equivalence is succinctly described in the following way:\n\nIn contrast, a cardinal utility function is only unique up to increasing affine transformation. Every affine transformation is monotone; hence, if two functions are cardinally equivalent they are also ordinally equivalent, but not vice versa.\n\nSuppose, from now on, that the set formula_4 is the set of all non-negative real two-dimensional vectors. So an element of formula_4 is a pair formula_15 that represents the amounts consumed from two products, e.g., apples and bananas.\n\nThen under certain circumstances a preference relation formula_6 is represented by a utility function formula_62.\n\nSuppose the preference relation is \"monotonically increasing\", which means that \"more is always better\":\n\nThen, both partial derivatives, if they exist, of \"v\" are positive. In short: \n\nSuppose a person has a bundle formula_65 and claims that he is indifferent between this bundle and the bundle formula_66. This means that he is willing to give formula_67 units of x to get formula_68 units of y. If this ratio is kept as formula_69, we say that formula_70 is the \"marginal rate of substitution (MRS)\" between \"x\" and \"y\" at the point formula_65.\n\nThis definition of the MRS is based only on the ordinal preference relation – it does not depend on a numeric utility function. If the preference relation is represented by a utility function and the function is differentiable, then the MRS can be calculated from the derivatives of that function:\nFor example, if the preference relation is represented by formula_73 then formula_74. The MRS is the same for the function formula_75. This is not a coincidence as these two functions represent the same preference relation – each one is an increasing monotone transformation of the other.\n\nIn general, the MRS may be different at different points formula_65. For example, it is possible that at formula_77 the MRS is low because the person has a lot of \"x\" and only one \"y\", but at formula_78 or formula_79 the MRS is higher. Some special cases are described below.\n\nWhen the MRS of a certain preference relation does not depend on the bundle, i.e., the MRS is the same for all formula_65, the indifference curves are linear and of the form:\nand the preference relation can be represented by a linear function:\n\nWhen the MRS depends on formula_85 but not on formula_86, the preference relation can be represented by a quasilinear utility function, of the form\nwhere formula_88 is a certain monotonically increasing function. Because the MRS is a function formula_89, a possible function formula_88 can be calculated as an integral of formula_89:\nIn this case, all the indifference curves are parallel – they are horizontal transfers of each other.\n\nA more general type of utility function is an additive function:\n\nThere are several ways to check whether given preferences are representable by an additive utility function.\n\nIf the preferences are additive then a simple arithmetic calculation shows that\nso this \"double-cancellation\" property is a necessary condition for additivity.\n\nDebreu (1960) showed that this property is also sufficient: i.e., if a preference relation satisfies the double-cancellation property then it can be represented by an additive utility function.\n\nIf the preferences are represented by an additive function, then a simple arithmetic calculation shows that\nso this \"corresponding tradeoffs\" property is a necessary condition for additivity. \nThis condition is also sufficient.\n\nWhen there are three or more commodities, the condition for the additivity of the utility function is surprisingly \"simpler\" than for two commodities. This is an outcome of Theorem 3 of Debreu (1960). The condition required for additivity is preferential independence.\n\nA subset A of commodities is said to be \"preferentially independent\" of a subset B of commodities, if the preference relation in subset A, given constant values for subset B, is independent of these constant values. For example, suppose there are three commodities: \"x\" \"y\" and \"z\". The subset {\"x\",\"y\"} is preferentially-independent of the subset {\"z\"}, if for all formula_98:\nIn this case, we can simply say that:\n\nPreferential independence makes sense in case of independent goods. For example, the preferences between bundles of apples and bananas are probably independent of the number of shoes and socks that an agent has, and vice versa.\n\nBy Debreu's theorem, if all subsets of commodities are preferentially independent of their complements, then the preference relation can be represented by an additive value function. Here we provide an intuitive explanation of this result by showing how such an additive value function can be constructed. The proof assumes three commodities: \"x\", \"y\", \"z\". We show how to define three points for each of the three value functions formula_101: the 0 point, the 1 point and the 2 point. Other points can be calculated in a similar way, and then continuity can be used to conclude that the functions are well-defined in their entire range.\n\n0 point: choose arbitrary formula_102 and assign them as the zero of the value function, i.e.:\n\n1 point: choose arbitrary formula_104 such that formula_105. Set it as the unit of value, i.e.:\nChoose formula_107 and formula_108 such that the following indifference relations hold: \nThis indifference serves to scale the units of \"y\" and \"z\" to match those of \"x\". The value in these three points should be 1, so we assign\n\n2 point: Now we use the preferential-independence assumption. The relation between formula_111 and formula_112 is independent of \"z\", and similarly the relation between formula_113 and formula_114 is independent of \"x\" and the relation between formula_115 and formula_116 is independent of \"y\". Hence\nThis is useful because it means that the function \"v\" can have the same value – 2 – in these three points. Select formula_118 such that\nand assign\n\n3 point: To show that our assignments so far are consistent, we must show that all points that receive a total value of 3 are indifference points. Here, again, the preferential independence assumption is used, since the relation between formula_121 and formula_16 is independent of \"z\" (and similarly for the other pairs); hence\nand similarly for the other pairs. Hence, the 3 point is defined consistently.\n\nWe can continue like this by induction and define the per-commodity functions in all integer points, then use continuity to define it in all real points.\n\nAn implicit assumption in point 1 of the above proof is that all three commodities are \"essential\" or \"preference relevant\". This means that there exists a bundle such that, if the amount of a certain commodity is increased, the new bundle is strictly better.\n\nThe proof for more than 3 commodities is similar. In fact, we do not have to check that all subsets of points are preferentially independent; it is sufficient to check a linear number of pairs of commodities. E.g., if there are formula_124 different commodities, formula_125, then it is sufficient to check that for all formula_126, the two commodities formula_127 are preferentially independent of the other formula_128 commodities.\n\nAn additive preference relation can be represented by many different additive utility functions. However, all these functions are similar: they are not only increasing monotone transformations of each other (as are all utility functions representing the same relation); they are increasing linear transformations of each other. In short,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "428111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=428111", "title": "Parabolic coordinates", "text": "Parabolic coordinates\n\nParabolic coordinates are a two-dimensional orthogonal coordinate system in which the coordinate lines are confocal parabolas. A three-dimensional version of parabolic coordinates is obtained by rotating the two-dimensional system about the symmetry axis of the parabolas. \n\nParabolic coordinates have found many applications, e.g., the treatment of the Stark effect and the potential theory of the edges.\n\nTwo-dimensional parabolic coordinates formula_1 are defined by the equations, in terms of cartesian coordinates:\n\nThe curves of constant formula_4 form confocal parabolae\n\nthat open upwards (i.e., towards formula_6), whereas the curves of constant formula_7 form confocal parabolae\n\nthat open downwards (i.e., towards formula_9). The foci of all these parabolae are located at the origin.\n\nThe scale factors for the parabolic coordinates formula_1 are equal\n\nHence, the infinitesimal element of area is\n\nand the Laplacian equals\n\nOther differential operators such as formula_14 \nand formula_15 can be expressed in the coordinates formula_1 by substituting \nthe scale factors into the general formulae \nfound in orthogonal coordinates.\n\nThe two-dimensional parabolic coordinates form the basis for two sets of three-dimensional orthogonal coordinates. The parabolic cylindrical coordinates are produced by projecting in the formula_17-direction.\nRotation about the symmetry axis of the parabolae produces a set of \nconfocal paraboloids, the coordinate system of tridimensional parabolic coordinates. Expressed in terms of cartesian coordinates:\n\nwhere the parabolae are now aligned with the formula_17-axis,\nabout which the rotation was carried out. Hence, the azimuthal angle formula_22 is defined\n\nThe surfaces of constant formula_4 form confocal paraboloids\n\nthat open upwards (i.e., towards formula_26) whereas the surfaces of constant formula_7 form confocal paraboloids \n\nthat open downwards (i.e., towards formula_29). The foci of all these paraboloids are located at the origin.\n\nThe Riemannian metric tensor associated with this coordinate system is\n\nThe three dimensional scale factors are:\n\nIt is seen that the scale factors formula_34 and formula_35 are the same as in the two-dimensional case. The infinitesimal volume element is then\n\nand the Laplacian is given by\n\nOther differential operators such as formula_14 \nand formula_15 can be expressed in the coordinates formula_40 by substituting \nthe scale factors into the general formulae \nfound in orthogonal coordinates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31275972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31275972", "title": "People-centered development", "text": "People-centered development\n\nPeople-centered development is an approach to international development that focuses on improving local communities' self-reliance, social justice, and participatory decision-making. It recognizes that economic growth does not inherently contribute to human development and calls for changes in social, political, and environmental values and practices.\n\nIn 1984, David Korten, a former regional advisor to the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), proposed a people-centered development strategy that incorporated the values of justice, sustainability, and inclusiveness. According to Korten, the prevailing growth-focused development strategy is unsustainable and inequitable. He calls for transformations of our institutions, technology, values, and behavior, \"consistent with our ecological and social realities.\"\n\nPublished in 1989, The Manila Declaration on People's Participation and Sustainable Development sets forth principles and guidelines for enacting these transformations.\n\nThe concept of people-centered development gained recognition at several international development conferences in the 1990s, such as the Earth Summit in 1992, the International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in 1994, and the Summit for Social Development of 1995. The concept was first widely promoted in the United Nations Development Programme's (UNDP) Human Development Report in 1990, in which countries' level of development was measured by the Human Development Index (HDI). The UNDP's report deems economic growth a necessary means to achieving sustainable development.\n\nJapan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated in its 1996 official development assistance (ODA) report that the objective of people-centered development is, \"helping humankind lead an affluent and happy life.\" \"Shaping the 21st Century,\" a report published by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in 1996, made people-centered development a target policy for all member countries. It stressed the importance of local ownership, participation, and capacity building while attaining economic growth.\n\nSustainability is an inherent component and explicit goal of people-centered development. People-centered development calls for the establishment of self-supporting social and economic systems, key elements of a sustainable society. In addition to its commitment to people-centered development, the DAC High-Level Meeting in May 1996 made sustainability a concrete development goal, requiring the implementation of national sustainability initiatives by 2005 in order to reverse deforestation, water pollution, and other trends of environmental degradation.\n\nThe Manila Declaration stated that people-centered development is the only way to achieve sustainable communities. Expanding beyond the environmental scope of sustainability, it advocates small-scale community actions in order to enhance economic self-reliance and create reliable sources of income. It also calls for debt reductions and blames excessive long-term foreign debt financing for the cyclical repayment burdens and policy impositions that inhibit sustainable development.\n\nDavid Korten claims that people-centered development is the only way to develop sustainable communities. He criticized the common development practice of increased economic output through natural resource depletion. Korten also advocates sustainability in the financing of development projects and the relationships of external assistance. He calls on external development partners to support objectives chosen by the people, building communities' capacity to manage resources and meet local needs independently.\n\nIn the context of people-centered development, central elements of participation include:\n\nThe OECD noted that democratic processes are essential to people-centered development because they allow communities to create their own development goals and influence the decisions that determine their quality of life. Community participation and true democratic process demand that people have the means to hold government officials and public institutions accountable. It requires that governments act as enablers for the peoples' agenda, creating policies that enhance citizen action.\n\nCommunities must have access to relevant, reliable information in order to make the best decisions for themselves and their communities. The Manila Declaration proposed global monitoring systems to increase peoples' access to relevant information in order for communities to make rational decisions and protect their interests.\n\nTrue democratic processes can only be achieved when men and women are represented equally. People-centered development necessitates equality in the roles of men and women, a systemic problem in many developing nations. The OECD noted several reasons why women are essential to sustainable, people-centered development:\n\nIn the context of people-centered development, elements of justice include:\n\nThe OECD's DAC affirms that the role of external development partners is to enhance developing countries' capacity to meet sustainable development requirements. This strategy emphasizes the need for local ownership so that communities have responsibility and control over their resources in order to benefit themselves and also stresses the role of government as an enabler for the peoples' agenda. According to David Korten, individuals have a greater incentive to pursue sustainable environmental practices when resources are locally owned. In addition, he says that people-centered development \"rejects the right of one person to self-enrichment based on the appropriation of the resources on which another person's survival depends.\"\n\nJapan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs adopted a strategy of people-centered development in 1996, citing the concept's growing centrality at international development conferences. It recognized a primary concern of people-centered development – whether or not the benefits of economic growth (e.g. increased employment and income) are seen in underserved communities. The Manila Declaration proposed reductions in resource exports in order to address this concern. A reduction in exports would allow communities to meet their local needs first. According to Korten, a share of surplus production should then be used to create high value-added products, providing the optimal benefits to developing communities.\n\n"}
{"id": "85584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85584", "title": "Pietas", "text": "Pietas\n\nPietas, translated variously as \"duty\", \"religiosity\" or \"religious behavior\", \"loyalty\", \"devotion\", or \"filial piety\" (English \"piety\" derives from the Latin), was one of the chief virtues among the ancient Romans. It was the distinguishing virtue of the founding hero Aeneas, who is often given the adjectival epithet \"pius\" (\"religious\") throughout Virgil's epic \"Aeneid\". The sacred nature of \"pietas\" was embodied by the divine personification Pietas, a goddess often pictured on Roman coins. The Greek equivalent is \"eusebeia\" (εὐσέβεια).\n\nCicero defined \"pietas\" as the virtue \"which admonishes us to do our duty to our country or our parents or other blood relations.\" The man who possessed \"pietas\" \"performed all his duties towards the deity and his fellow human beings fully and in every respect,\" as the 19th-century classical scholar Georg Wissowa described it.\n\n\"Pietas erga parentes\" (\"\"pietas\" toward one's parents\") was one of the most important aspects of demonstrating virtue. \"Pius\" as a \"cognomen\" originated as way to mark a person as especially \"pious\" in this sense: announcing one's personal \"pietas\" through official nomenclature seems to have been an innovation of the late Republic, when Quintus Caecilius Metellus Pius claimed it for his efforts to have his father, Numidicus, recalled from exile. \"Pietas\" extended also toward \"parents\" in the sense of \"ancestors,\" and was one of the basic principles of Roman tradition, as expressed by the care of the dead.\n\n\"Pietas\" as a virtue resided within a person, in contrast to a virtue or gift such as \"Victoria,\" which was given by the gods. \"Pietas,\" however, allowed a person to recognize the divine source of benefits conferred.\n\nThe first recorded use of \"pietas\" in English occurs in Anselm Bayly’s \"The Alliance of Music, Poetry, and Oratory\", published in 1789.\n\nPietas was represented on coin by cult objects, but also as a woman conducting a sacrifice by means of fire at an altar. In the imagery of sacrifice, libation was the fundamental act that came to symbolize \"pietas\".\n\n\"Pietas\" is first represented on Roman coins on \"denarii\" issued by Marcus Herennius in 108 or 107 BC. Pietas appears on the obverse as a divine personification, in bust form; the quality of \"pietas\" is represented by a son carrying his father on his back; the symbolism of which would be echoed in Virgil's Aeneid, with Aeneas carrying his father Anchises out of the burning Troy. Pietas is among the virtues that appear frequently on Imperial coins, including those issued under Hadrian.\n\nOne of the symbols of \"pietas\" was the stork, described by Petronius as \"pietaticultrix\", \"cultivator of \"pietas\".\" The stork represented filial piety in particular, as the Romans believed that it demonstrated family loyalty by returning to the same nest every year, and that it took care of its parents in old age. As such, a stork appears next to Pietas on (on whose \"cognomen\" see above).\n\nPietas was the divine presence in everyday life that cautioned humans not to intrude on the realm of the gods. Violations of \"pietas\" required a \"piaculum\", expiatory rites.\n\nA temple to Pietas was vowed \"(votum)\" by Manius Acilius Glabrio at the Battle of Thermopylae in 191 BC.\n\nAccording to a miraculous legend \"(miraculum),\" a poor woman who was starving in prison was saved when her daughter gave her breast milk (compare Roman Charity). Caught in the act, the daughter was not punished, but recognized for her \"pietas\". Mother and daughter were set free, and given public support for the rest of their lives. The site was regarded as sacred to the goddess Pietas \"(consecratus deae)\" because she had chosen to manifest her presence there. The story exemplified \"pietas erga parentes\", the proper devotion one ought to show to one's parents.\n\nPietas was often depicted as goddess on the reverse of Roman Imperial coins, with women of the imperial family on the obverse, as an appropriate virtue to be attributed to them. Women of the Imperial family might be portrayed in art in the goddess's guise.\n\n"}
{"id": "1316684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1316684", "title": "Power distance", "text": "Power distance\n\nPower distance is the extent to which the lower ranking individuals of a society \"accept and expect that power is distributed unequally\". It is primarily used in psychological and sociological studies on societal management of inequalities between individuals, and individual's perceptions of that management. People in societies with a high power distance are more likely to conform to a hierarchy where \"everybody has a place and which needs no further justification\". In societies with a low power distance, individuals tend to try to distribute power equally. In such societies, inequalities of power among people would require additional justification.\n\nHofstede, the famous business anthropologist, developed the cultural dimensions theory, used widely as a crucial framework for cross-cultural communication. It is the earliest theory that could be quantified and used to explain perceived differences between cultures and has been applied extensively in many fields, especially in cross-cultural psychology, international business, and cross-cultural communication. It was driven by the statistical procedure (also called 'factor analysis') to make the development, based on the result of a global survey of the values of IBM employees conducted from 1967 and 1973. Hofstede's theory identified six dimensions of culture, which are power distance, individualism vs collectivism, uncertainty avoidance, masculinity vs femininity, short-term vs long-term orientation, and indulgence vs self-restraint.\n\nThe Power Distance Index is designed to measure 'the extent to which power differs within the society, organization and institutions (like the family) are accepted by the less powerful members'. It indicates the level of power distance and dependent relationships in a country by assigning a score to each country. The PDI also represents society's level of inequality that is defined from below rather than from above. As Hofstede stressed, there is no absolute value and PDI is useful only as a method to compare countries.\n\nHofstede derived the power distance scores for three regions and fifty countries from the answers given by IBM employees in the same type of positions to the same questions. The detailed steps to calculate the PDI is as follows:\n\n1. Prepare three survey questions:\n2. Pre-code the answers so that they are represented by a number (e.g. 1,2,3,4...)\n\n3. Compute the mean score for the answers of equal sample of people from each country or percentage for choosing particular answers\n\n4. Sort the questions into groups which are called clusters or factors by using a statistical procedure\n\n5. Add or subtract the three scores after multiplying each with a fixed number\n\n6. Add another fixed number\n\nHofstede's study made a great contribution to the establishment of the research tradition in cross-cultural psychology. However, limitations still exist.\n\nFirstly, each stage of the research process reappears as a political act of neutralization—of making the unneutral seem neutral. The questionnaire reflects a large power distance: its questions were explicitly designed to resolve the normative concerns of researchers. To further explain, it primarily served the concerns of those who needed to do comparative analysis and created it through \"coercing a culturally distinct axis of comparison\" on a variety of employees.\n\nSecondly, the questionnaire adopted an obviously western methodology to analyze non-western countries and it is also relatively selective in representing the inequality within the western countries. For example, the PDI concentrated on the boss and subordinate relationship, which could be seen as biased, as it ignores other forms of western inequality. Apparently, the questions failed to measure the racial, colonial, and broader class inequalities which should be taken into account into the measurement of power distance.\n\nIn the middle of the last century, Haire, Ghiselli, and Porter explored the differences in preferences for power among different cultures with remarkable outcomes, even though they did not mention the concept of power distance. The methodology they adopted was by questionnaire, which was based on Maslow's hierarchy of needs with some modification. The aim of the questionnaire was to evaluate how managers from 14 countries were satisfied regarding their needs when they were in their current positions. The dimensions that were linked to power distance across cultures in their questionnaire were autonomy and self-actualization.\nAutonomy\n\nSelf-Actualization\n\nIn accordance with the responses to the questions in their questionnaire, the 14 countries were clustered into five main groups, which they labeled Nordic-European (Denmark, Germany, Norway, and Sweden), Latin-European (Belgium, France, Italy, and Spain), Anglo-American (England and the United States), Developing (Argentina, Chile, and India), and Japan (by itself). One important thing from this analysis is the various mean standardized scores that the five groups presented with respect to autonomy and self-actualization. For these figures, positive ones mean greater satisfaction of need than for the average manager across all 14 countries, while negative ones mean lesser satisfaction. Their results are presented in Table 1.\n\nUpon the figures listed in the table, some implications are drawn. They are complicated, and summarized as follows:\n– Nordic-Europeans who were surveyed were extremely contented with the satisfaction of their desire for power;\n– Anglo-Americans were rather discontented; and\n– the other clusters desired more power than they currently had in their positions\n\nOne important implication from this study is that countries can be clustered according to their preference for power. Besides this, some of their differences can be explained by the influence of the following factors: the predominant religion or philosophy, an established tradition of democracy, the long-term existence of a middle class, and the proportion of immigrants in each country.\n\nAnother major study of power distance was the one that was undertaken by Mauk Mulder. It was based on the premise that as societies become weaker in power distance, the underprivileged will tend to reject their power dependency. Mulder's laboratory experiments in the social and organizational context of the Netherlands, a low power distance culture, concluded that people attempted to seek “power distance reduction”. He found that:\n\nFrom these findings, he concluded that a condition of quasi-equilibrium had arisen. In this condition, power holders have achieved a certain distance from people who lack power, and this distance is hard for the powerless to bridge.\n\nFollowing Hofstede, the GLOBE project defined \"power distance\" as “the degree to which members of an organization or society expect and agree that power should be shared unequally.” Power distance was then further analyzed as one of the nine cultural dimensions explained in the “Global Leadership and Organizational Behavior Effectiveness” (GLOBE) Research Program, which was conceived in 1990 by Robert J. House of the Wharton School of Business, University of Pennsylvania.\n\nGiven the major premise that leader effectiveness is contextual, the research was conducted by believing that the social and organizational values, norms and beliefs of those who are being led are closely connected to the effectiveness of the leader. GLOBE measures the practices and values that exist at the levels of industry (financial services, food processing, telecommunications), organization (several in each industry), and society (62 cultures). The results are presented in the form of quantitative data based on responses of about 17,000 managers from 951 organizations functioning in 62 societies throughout the world, which shows how each of the 62 societies scores on nine major attributes of cultures, including Power Distance, and six major global leader behaviour.\n\nRegarding power distance, GLOBE researches cultural influences on power distance values, practices and other aspects, including 'Roots of Power Distance', 'The Psychological Stream and Power' and 'The Cross-Cultural Stream and Power Distance'. It also investigates how family power values are taught, and makes a comparison of high versus low power distance societies.\n\nWhen discussing 'The Cross-Cultural Stream and Power Distance', four primary factors affecting a society's level of power distance are explained separately, and they are the predominant religion or philosophy, the tradition of democratic principles of government, the existence of a strong middle class, and the proportion of immigrants in a society's population. Among the four fundamental phenomena, there always exists connections; however, it is concluded that a society's main beliefs, values, and religion, will have the strongest and longest lasting influence on power distance. Then, this will be moderated by a democratic tradition and the existence of a strong middle class to some extent. Moreover, the two factors are both expected to affect narrowing power distance. Therefore, for a Roman Catholic society, which is exposed to democracy and a middle class, would be on the way to narrowing power distance. Though its level of power distance could be reduced over time, it would still be higher than a Protestant country, which has a democratic tradition and a large middle class. Finally, a large proportion of immigrants in a given society makes the low power distance trend stronger in all circumstances presented above. In addition, it is concluded that regardless of religion, any society that does not have a tradition of democracy or a significant middle class will have a substantially high power distance levels.\n\nPower distance is such a significant dimension in cross-cultural environments that it is unconsciously influencing people's behaviour in different countries, which contributes to so–called 'cultural norms'. These 'cultural norms', shaped by perceptions and acceptance of power inequality to a certain degree, lead to various reactions when facing same situations or in the same environment. However, there are some consequences resulting from acquiescence in inequality in organizations and societies, especially for high power distance countries.\n\nIn organisations with high power distance, employees acknowledge their lesser standing, and are respectful and submissive towards their superiors; who in turn, are more likely to give orders rather than consult with their employees while making decisions. Status symbols are often displayed and flaunted. Employers or managers would not have meals together with their subordinates, and might have private facilities such as rooms, parking lots, and elevators. Having a high level of education is important to climb the corporate ladder, and the higher-ranking members of the organization are often paid much more than their employees in comparison with companies with lower power distance.\n\nOn the other hand, in businesses with low power distance, bosses are not as concerned with status symbols and would be more open to employee discussion and participation. Employees are less submissive to their superiors, and are more likely to make themselves heard or to challenge the management.\n\nIn high power distance regions, people in the higher positions hold great amounts of power with little challenge. The hierarchy and authority empower employers and supervisors with more rights of resource allocation, rewards and punishment, which in turn reinforce their status, as well as enable them to lead and guide their subordinates autocratically. The hierarchical differentiation between the top and the bottom gradually creates an invisible gap in the workplace, where the subordinates tend to build greater sensitivity and cautiousness when communicating with their supervisors.\n\nIt is a common phenomenon that junior employees turn to their seniors for help and advice when getting into a new environment. Yet, some researchers recently attested that employees and junior staff from high power distance countries are less likely to seek help from their supervisors. One of the reasons is that lower ranking staff have few chances and time to meet the high ranking managers in person. The hierarchical system is far more sophisticated and restricted that subordinates are usually only able to reach their immediate supervisors. In addition, it is widely believed that the action of asking for help is equivalent to incompetence or lack of ability, which subdues themselves into an unfavourable circumstance. What is worse is that some of the supervisors who are incapable of solving more complicated problems will become suspicious of his or her subordinates, regarding the problems as a challenge to their status and capabilities, or even as humiliation from the lower ranking staff. Such climates have gradually reinforced employees to think that it is more effective and efficient to deal with difficulties by themselves, rather than talking to their managers. The indisputability of power and authority widens the gap between different levels, while the acceptance of inequality consolidates the endurance among the bottom, stopping the subordinates seeking help from the top.\n\nThere is another main perspective that leads to a larger gap between the supervisors and subordinates. In a high power distance environment, supervisors tend to pay more attention on tasks rather than human beings that are the main focus for supervisors in a low power distance environment. Apparently, task orientation emphasizes heavily on daily work completion and performance efficiency, yet the top-bottom relationship grows far more slowly since there is a lack of communication beyond work, which in turn reduces subordinates' willingness of seeking help from supervisors. Compared to low power distance countries, equality is embraced by the society that power is minimized to a large extent, where authority and hierarchy are not highlighted and supervisors are accessible and willing to build close relationship with subordinates, whose worries of any harm are turned down when seeking help from the top.\n\nAccording to research, people from high power distance countries are generally less responsible towards charitable behaviours than people from low power distance countries. The explanation for this phenomenon is that the rooted perception and acceptance of inequality somehow blinds their eyes to any unfair or inappropriate situations, which they may consider as a normal social circumstance and simply accept it rather than making a change. Cumulatively, the more inequality they accept, the less inconformity they will notice, and the less responsibilities they will take eventually. The consequence is high power distance enlarging the gap between human beings in terms of relations and wealth conditions. Conversely, people in low power distance countries are more sensitive towards any unequal phenomena. Their unacceptance of dissonance endows them with a greater sense of responsibility for adjusting or correcting the problems in person.\n\nThe types of needs are influencing people's charitable behaviour regardless of their power distance backgrounds. The needs generated are classified into controllable and uncontrollable categories, where the occurrence of the former is due to lack of effort while the occurrence of the latter is due to unforeseeable events such as natural disasters. The ability of whether individuals are able to control the situations affects how they will react to the raising needs.\n\nOn the one hand, the level of power distance does have an influence over a society's reaction towards controllable needs. People with high power distance background perceive most of the issues as rightful inequality, hence are reluctant to get themselves involved with 'troubles', and therefore most of the time they choose to turn a blind eye on such petty things. Conversely, low power distance societies are intolerant with unfairness and thus their higher sense of responsibility motivates people to make an effort in eliminating dissonance in every possibility. Yet, there seems to be an exception. It is found that people are not sympathetic at all to those in trouble due to internal-controllable reasons. In other words, it is most likely that people reckon those who are lazy, careless, greedy or indulgent, deserve such hardship and punishment, instead of giving a hand to them to go through the difficulties. In this situation, even if there is an evident unequal phenomenon emerging, the willingness of charitable behaviours are attenuated to the least in both high and low power distance countries.\n\nOn the other hand, people tend to be more responsible in terms of uncontrollable needs, whereby they are more willing to offer aid to. It is assumed that people consider that the aid for uncontrollable needs will not greatly change societal rightful inequality, and hence generous assistance and help will be offered to those in need regardless of power distance background. In such circumstances, a sense of duty is more likely to be raised, where people tend to undertake charitable behaviours.\n\nThe relationship norms behind the needs also affect the sense of responsibility. The types of relationships are mainly classified as exchange relationships, in which people are expecting a reasonable privilege or benefit in return for offering aid; and communal relationships, where those giving assistance are wholeheartedly and generously taking care of those in need without any expectation of material return. According to research, people are more likely to refuse to aid when encountering needs associated with exchange relationships rather than needs with communal relationships, which has proved to alleviate the influence of power distance belief and increase the willingness and responsibility of assistance.\n\nTherefore, Winterich recommended that charitable organizations in high power distance countries should stress the significance of uncontrollable needs or salient communal relationship norms, through which the populace are more easily motivated to make a difference on social inequality.\n\nMalaysia has one of the highest levels of power distance, with a score of 100 on Hofstede's Power Distance Index (PDI). This signifies that Malaysians would generally consent to, and not question, hierarchies in which everyone has a place. They would perceive hierarchy in organisations as mirroring intrinsic inequalities. Leaders are expected to be autocratic, and to instruct their subordinates on what to do. Malaysian society is often centralised, and opposition to authority is generally not welcomed.\n\nWith a PDI score of 11, Austria is one of the countries with the lowest levels of power distance. Austrians believe in independence, equal rights, approachable leaders, that chain of command should only be for convenience, and that supervision should facilitate and empower. Power is typically decentralised, with leaders often consulting or relying on their subordinates. First names are usually used even with superiors, and communication is direct and two-way.\n\nIt has been hypothesized that there is a link between climate and power distance, with societies in warmer climates more likely to have a higher power distance than societies in colder climates. As food and other necessities are relatively easier to come by in warm, comfortable climates, survival is not as difficult, and thus there is no need for rigorous discipline, preparation, or hardship. It has been argued that these conditions would give rise to a situation whereby it is beneficial for strict organisation and direction to come from superiors in order to propel people to cooperate effectively, even if it goes against the will of some people.\n\nOn the other hand, in colder, harsher climates, it is imperative for individuals to have discipline and prudence to work hard and make the right decisions in order to survive. In these societies, if one were to be lazy and rest for a day instead of searching for food, they might not be able to survive. Therefore, self-discipline and restraint is paramount in these climates. With these qualities ingrained in the people, social order does not need to be enforced externally.\n\nIt has been asserted that democratic governments occur most commonly among low power distance societies, where it is not ingrained into the minds of the people since young age that there are unquestionable hierarchies in life that should not be disputed. It has been found that the 'ideological breach between labour and conservatives' is exceedingly polarised in high power distance socieites, while in low power distance cultures, people would tend to try to attain balance between the two extremes in order to avoid damaging and draining conflicts. This is why unions in high power distance cultures are usually formed by corporations or governments, while those in lower power distance societies are usually less 'ideological' and more 'practical'.\n\n"}
{"id": "6031238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6031238", "title": "Project Neptune (water distribution system)", "text": "Project Neptune (water distribution system)\n\nProject Neptune is a water distribution project in the United Kingdom with the goal of establishing an optimized and more sustainable system for water distribution. The project was officially announced in April 2007, and received a budget of £2.7 million.\n\nIn the UK, water service providers (WSPs) are legally obligated to provide drinking water to all of their customers. The difficulty in optimizing this service involves the minimum water pressure and flow standards, as well as the strict regulations regarding water quality. The innovative technologies required to support the goal of Project Neptune are either partially evolved with no proven reliability or do not exist yet. The Centre for Sustainable Development at the University of Cambridge is heading the work on integrating artificial intelligence and mathematical simulation technologies to create an efficient online reporting and analyzing system for monitoring performance of the water distribution system.\n\nIn order to address the technological deficiencies of the project, research priority areas (RPA) have been identified by the American Society of Civil Engineers. The RPA three key concentrations include “data and knowledge management, pressure management (including energy management), and the associated complex decision support systems on which to base interventions.\" The specific objectives of the RPA are focused on developing communication networks, sustainable technologies, real time information feedback system, and optimal operations. The function of the communication network is to evaluate the performance and reliability of already implemented hardware and sensors for collecting faraway data. In order to achieve a reduction in energy usage, sustainable technologies that develop innovative energy harvesting technology and reduce the necessity for constant battery replacement are necessary for the project. Real time information relates to acquiring knowledge related to performance of the water distribution system. Optimal operations can be achieved through improvement in understanding and analyzing relevant data, which includes online models of hydraulics. The first round of RPA work is contributing to the initiative headed by Yorkshire Water Services to install the first prototypes of Ground Penetrating Radar Systems (GPRS). The Yorkshire initiative aims to install around 490 prototypes that are connected to sensors that collect pressure and flow data on a half hourly basis.\n\nProject Neptune’s academic and industrial partners aim to address the tasks of developing: energy saving options, online simulation model to provide an overlook of a full day’s water distribution patterns, system to mitigate and manage leakage, automate system adjustments, power harvesting methods, and optimized system for reacting to incidents.\n\nStaff involved in the system controls department of the project have the burden of handling large amounts of data received. The Decision Support System (DSS) was developed in order to alleviate this burden and aid the staff in decision making, prioritizing urgent incidents, and identifying faulty alarms. The DSS functions to combine these strategy and decision making outputs into one single and comprehensive presentation of data for the operator.\n\nThe project today receives funding from the UK’s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) in order to further advance understanding and contribute knowledge about optimal and efficient water supply systems. Industrial funding is also provided for the project, the main contributors include the United Utilities and Yorkshire Water Services. University of Exeter in the UK carries out research for the project in collaboration with seven other research universities located in the UK, including University of Cambridge, the University of Sheffield, Imperial College London, De Montfort University, Lancaster University, University of Leicester, and University of Sheffield.\n\n"}
{"id": "14060197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14060197", "title": "Prolonged exposure therapy", "text": "Prolonged exposure therapy\n\nProlonged exposure therapy (PE) is a form of behavior therapy and cognitive behavioral therapy designed to treat post-traumatic stress disorder. It is characterized by re-experiencing the traumatic event through remembering and engaging with reminders (triggers) of the trauma, as opposed to avoiding them. Sometimes, this technique is referred to as flooding.\n\nProlonged exposure therapy was developed by Edna B Foa, PhD, Director of the Center for the Treatment and Study of Anxiety. Prolonged exposure therapy (PE) is a theoretically-based and highly effective treatment for chronic post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and related depression, anxiety, and anger. PE falls under the category of \"exposure-based therapy\" and is supported by scientific studies which reflect its positive impact on patient symptoms . \n\nExposure-based therapies focus on confronting the harmless triggers of trauma/stress in order to dissociate them from the feelings of anxiety and stress. Prolonged exposure is a flexible therapy that can be modified to fit the needs of individual clients. It is specifically designed to help clients psychologically process traumatic events and reduce trauma-induced psychological disturbances. Prolonged exposure produces clinically significant improvement in about 80% of patients with chronic PTSD. \n\nOver years of testing and development, prolonged exposure has evolved into an adaptable program of intervention to address the needs of varied trauma survivors. In addition to reducing symptoms of PTSD, prolonged exposure instills confidence and a sense of mastery, improves various aspects of daily functioning, increases the ability to cope with courage when facing stress, and improves the ability to discriminate safe and unsafe situations.\n\nIn 2001, Prolonged Exposure for PTSD received an Exemplary Substance Abuse Prevention Program Award from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). Prolonged exposure was selected by SAMHSA and the Center for Substance Abuse Prevention as a Model Program for national dissemination.\n\nPTSD is characterized by the re-experiencing of the traumatic event through intrusive and upsetting memories, nightmares, flashbacks, and strong emotional and physiological reactions triggered by reminders of the trauma. Most individuals with PTSD try to ward off the intrusive symptoms and avoid the trauma-reminders, even when those reminders are not inherently dangerous. To address the traumatic memories and triggers that are reminders of the trauma, the core components of exposure programs for the disorder are:\n\nThe goal of this treatment is to promote processing of the trauma memory and to reduce distress and avoidance evoked by the trauma reminders. Additionally, individuals with emotional numbing and depression are encouraged to engage in enjoyable activities, even if these activities do not cause fear or anxiety but have dropped out the person's life due to loss of interest.\n\nThe imaginal exposure typically occurs during the therapy session and consists of retelling the trauma to the therapist. For the \"in vivo\" exposure, the clinician works with the client to establish a fear and avoidance hierarchy and typically assigns exposures to these list items as homework progressively. The therapist may also record the session and ask the patient to continue to complete in vivo exercises on their own time with the help of the recording. Both components work by facilitating emotional processing so that the problematic traumatic memories and avoidances habituate (desensitize). Randomized control trials reflect that only 10-38% of PTSD patients who take part in PE therapy terminate treatment before their program is complete (generally after at least 8 sessions).\n\nPractitioners throughout the United States and many other countries currently use prolonged exposure to successfully treat survivors of varied traumas including rape, assault, child abuse, combat, motor vehicle accidents, and disasters. Prolonged exposure has been beneficial for those suffering from co-occurring PTSD and substance abuse when combined with substance abuse treatment. Studies have also reflected that prolonged exposure therapy aids patients who suffer from both PTSD and borderline personality disorder when the treatment is coupled with dialectical behavior therapy. Some were concerned that PE would negatively affect the treatment of patients with substance abuse disorder (SUD) as purposefully and intentionally exposing them to their reminders and triggers may worsen their state; however, randomized control trial studies exist which indicate that there are no negative effects of using PE for patients with SUD. Conducted studies have reflected positively on the effectiveness of PE. For example, in the Netherlands, patients responded better to PE than to eye movement desensitization and reprocessing (EMDR) treatment. 6 month follow ups revealed that PE had also lessened psychotic and schizophrenic issues. Furthermore, in Israel, the symptoms of in a small group of female methadone users in Israel had decreased after PE treatment. PE therapy was also found to be superior to supportive therapy in sexually abused women with PTSD in a randomized controlled trial.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28287762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28287762", "title": "Queensland Council for Civil Liberties", "text": "Queensland Council for Civil Liberties\n\nThe Queensland Council for Civil Liberties (QCCL) is a voluntary organisation in Australia concerned with the protection of individual rights and civil liberties. It was founded in 1966 in order \"to protect and promote the human rights and freedoms of Queensland citizens.\" The QCCL is regularly asked by the Government to make submissions to committees, which is how bills are made in Parliament. These submissions cover issues such as closed circuit television, abortion law reform, sentencing issues in our court system and changes to legislation already in place, which are called amendments.\n\nIn 1979, Terry O'Gorman was elected President of the QCCL and served as president up until 1985. He again held presidency from 1990 to 1994. He is currently the Vice President of the QCCL. O'Gorman specialises in criminal law. The Fitzgerald Inquiry began in 1987 and Tony Fitzgerald, QC, was appointed as its head on 26 May. The inquiry was a turning point in the fight for civil rights and the investigation of police misconduct and corruption. During the Inquiry, Terry O'Gorman cross-examined Joh Bjelke-Petersen, who had attempted to shut down the inquiry unsuccessfully.\n\nThe Queensland Council for Civil Liberties is a sub-branch of the Australian Council for Civil Liberties, established in 1936. The Australian Council for Civil Liberties gives a national voice for Queensland, New South Wales and Victorian civil liberties councils.The continual violations of civil liberties in Queensland, particularly the suppression of civil rights during Protests against the Vietnam War, led to the formation of the QCCL.\n\nMeetings\n\nOn 20 June 1966, the first meeting to establish a Queensland Council for Civil Liberties was held. This meeting was disrupted by groups of left and right wing political persuasions who disagreed on how to achieve the major objectives of the Council\n\nA second meeting was held on 19 August 1966, but again this meeting was infiltrated by the right wing organisation The Catholic Action Group who aimed to prevent the Council obtaining a left-wing orientation. At this meeting the group dominated the newly formed council with conservative views and altered the name of this newly evolving civil liberties group to 'The Queensland Association for Civil Liberties.' Due to this takeover, many members withdrew and The Queensland Association for Civil Liberties once again changed its name, this time to the Ombudsman Association of Queensland.\n\nA third attempt to create a Queensland Council for Civil Liberties, free of political or sectarian influence, was made at a private meeting on 19 October 1966. The development of this group succeeded and the group received recognition from both the New South Wales and Victorian Council for Civil Liberty groups.\n\nCivil liberties and the right to strike\n\nAustralian Governments have produced many Acts of Parliament and subsequently, various amendments to try to find a solution to striking. Meanwhile, the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties work to facilitate safe and productive striking practice\nIn 1912, the right to strike was essentially quashed by a conservative Queensland government,led by Digby Denham, who passed the 1912 Industrial Peace Act in Queensland, which was an Act imposing penalties on strikers. Following this first instance of the government retaliating to strikers and subsequent strikes, The State Transport Act 1938 and The Industrial Law Amendment Act 1948 extended the power of the police to use force and arrest citizens without a warrant,effectively reducing protests and strike action.\n\nThe Industrial Law Amendment Act\n\nThe 1948 Queensland Railway strike was a strike lasting nine weeks,from February to April 1948, and concerned the wages of Railway and Locomotive workers in Queensland. It was prompted by a low-wage policy introduced by the Halon Labor Government. The Government issued the Industrial Law Amendment Act in order to prohibit protests and strike action. As well as this, a state of emergency was issued by the Hanlon Government. Police powers were extended, and through the initiation of these acts they were given the power to arrest citizens without a warrant and use force where necessary. Severe police brutality occurred during an illegal march on Saint Patrick's Day, 19 March 1948, when strikers were arrested, several demonstrators were hospitalised and union offices were raided. Eventually, wage increases were granted and emergency powers were revoked.\n\nThe State Transport Act\n\nDuring 1966, the Government commenced severe violations to civil liberties of Queensland citizens, this time in response to anti-Vietnam War demonstrations. The Federal Government of Australia introduced conscription in order to send Australian troops to the Vietnam War and in response to Anti-Vietnam War protests, the Queensland Government introduced the Traffic Act.\n\nAnti conscription marches were held throughout Australia on 5 October 1966 and Queensland was the only state in Australia where the police made misuse of the Traffic Act and arrested a number of demonstrators. Under the Traffic Act, police permits were required to have marches or meetings, even to display placards, and permits could be refused without reason. Brian Laver, one of the students who got arrested, chose to be imprisoned instead of paying a fine to show his resistance of the laws and regulations used to suppress demonstrations and marches. QCCL President at the time Jim Kelly wrote in an article featured in The Courier-Mail in January 1967 that the Council supported him.\n\nFree speech and the Objectionable Literature Act\n\nUnder the Objectionable Literature Act of 1954, the Parliament of Queensland established a Literature board of Review so that the government may outlaw the distribution of questionable publications. This meant that the review held the power to ban any and all publications that were seen to be:\n\nThe board of review consisted of four men and one woman, appointed by the governor-in-council. The board was able to ban literature without any notice of a prohibition order, nor were they required to hear representations from any publishers or distributors. Additionally the board was able to ban future issues of a publication regardless of whether the literature had been examined or not, however bans could be lifted if the board felt the publication had been 'reconstructed'.From the establishment of the Literature Board of Review in 1954 til 1981, 607 banning orders were made in Queensland with only six being disputed before the Supreme Court.\n\nCivil Rights Action Committee and QCCL\n\nIn June 1966, the Civil Rights Action Committee (CRAC) was established to seek reforms to the traffic regulations yet the Government rejected their submissions. The QCCL actively support the efforts of the CRAC. The University of Queensland Students' Union had also criticised the use of traffic legislation and the use of unnecessary police violence during the arrests of peaceful demonstrators. Furthermore, in early 1967, the Civil Liberties Co-ordination Committee (CLCC) and Students for Democratic Action, both based on the University of Queensland campus, had formed to oppose the restrictions of civil liberties.\n\nThe CLCC planned a protest march without a permit from the University to the city on 11 July 1967, but a mass meeting of students voted to postpone this until 5 September 1967 to give time for negotiations with the Queensland Government. On 7 August, Frank Gardiner, a moderate president of the Students' Union and later a vice-president of the QCCL, presented to Queensland Premier George Nicklin a submission to reform provisions of the Traffic Act and Council President Kelly and Council Secretary Lindsay Smith took part in preparing this submission.\n\nCabinet made a few limited concessions but they would not concede any changes to the major point of discontent – that police could refuse permits without reason. This heightened the suspicions of civil liberties advocates that the police, acting as agents of the Government, could discriminate against groups espousing unpopular causes. \"A deeply conservative State Government, under Queensland Premiers Frank Nicklin and later Joh Bjelke-Petersen, was determined to show protestors \"who was boss\". Marchers could be targeted, bashed by police, arrested, strip-searched, and spend at least one, and sometimes several days in the police \"watch house\" before release.\"\nOn 8 September 1967, students and staff of the University of Queensland marched without a permit from the campus to the city, opposite to The Cabinet. The march was obstructed by the police before it arrived at the destination and consequently they staged a mass sit-down protest in Roma St, causing 144 arrests. \"The 1967 Civil Liberties March was a turning point in student and State politics, subsequently leading to mass protests against the Vietnam War and the success of the emerging student movement in the decade to follow. The 1967–68 and post-1977 campaigns were the only major protests of that era anywhere in Australia where the issue was specifically about civil liberties, free speech, and the democratic \"right to protest\" itself.\" In 1972, the Gough Whitlam Federal Government defused anti-Vietnam war protests when it ended conscription and commitment to the war in Vietnam.\n\nMembership\n\nTo avoid infiltration by politically motivated groups the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties made membership open to anyone who subscribed to the aims outlined in the draft constitution. The Council aimed to be both non-political, non-sectarian and neither anti-police nor anti-government. Although QCCL is open to anyone, members must \"subscribe to the aims of the Council of safeguarding any liberties remaining from any infringement by police of political action\"\n\nOver the years, the Council has faced difficulty recruiting members and has often held low membership rates. When the council first began in 1966 there was low support from University lecturers and lawyers, as people may have felt their jobs may be jeopardised for affiliating with the Council and becoming members.\n\nCommunication\n\nAfter the Council was formed on 19 October 1966, led by President Jim Kelly, the Council began establishing itself as an important civil liberties group in Queensland. They began producing information to be distributed to citizens that would inform them of their civil rights and consequently when the government made changes that impinged on citizens rights,the Council held them accountable.The QCCL has used newsletters as a form of communication between members.Due to the low membership rates, newsletter distribution over the years has been sporadic.\n\nIn 1967 the Council released its first booklet containing information that would assist citizens in their dealings with the Police. Entitled \"The Citizen and the Police\", it contained subsections such as \"Types of Arrest,After Arrest, Bail\" and \"Proceedings in Court\".This is just one example of the work the Council performed at a time when their assistance was greatly required. An updated version of this booklet under the same title was also released in 1982 by the QCCL.\n\nThe Right to Demonstrate\n\nUpon deploying troops to Vietnam, anti-conscription demonstrations were held throughout Australia and such demonstrations of opinion were new to Queensland at this time. Queensland was the only State where police arrests were made, following the laws set out in the Traffic Act.\n\nA group who fought for civil rights prior to the formation of the QCCL was The Queensland Civil Liberties League,who were active in supporting a campaign to vote no to banning the Communist Party in Australia. In 1968, one of the first moves by the Council to support freedom of speech in Queensland, was when council president Jim Kelly supported Brisbane's first Nationalist Socialist Party meeting. He was published in The Australian stating 'the Council supported the principle of freedom of speech even for repugnant doctrines such as the Nazi Party'.\n\nIn 1981, the Coalition State government produced a Queen Street Mall Bill which increased police powers. Brisbane's Queen Street Mall featured heavily in the Council's activity for many years after. Subsequent amendments to the Bill and the passing of the Local Government (Queen Street Mall) Act Amendment Act prohibited Queen Street Mall visitors from 'preaching, haranguing, singing, chanting, miming, recitals or other entertainments' unless a permit had been obtained from the Brisbane City Council. The Council continued to fight these restrictions and supported activists in their plights to allow freedom of speech in the Queen Street Mall. In a move that proved the Council's success, a Brisbane City Council representative,David Hinchliffe, opened a Speakers' Corner in King George Square.\n\nAboriginal Australians and Citizenship – The Mabo Legislation\n\nFor many years, Aboriginal Australians and their supporters fought for civil rights and legal equality without the help of the QCCL.\n\nUpon forming, the QCCL worked with Aboriginal welfare organisations to inform Aboriginals of their rights if arrested. In 1967, the Council supported the campaign to secure an affirmative vote in the Commonwealth referendum on the welfare of Aborigines. The 1967 referendum is historically noted as the 'citizenship maker' and the 1960s decade saw the Commonwealth and State Government abandon citizenship restrictions. The 1967 referendum awarded Aboriginal Australians full citizenship rights and the Federal Government a mandate over Aboriginal affairs (Daniels, 11). This vote also meant Aboriginals were granted the right to be included in population statistics.\n\nSince the establishment of the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties, Australian state parliaments showed little interest in awarding Aboriginal Australians the right to land and Aboriginal Land rights were a topic of much criticism for the Queensland State Government. Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen ruled that in 1982, Aboriginal Australians would only receive 'deeds of grant in trust' over reserve land. Bjelke-Petersen claimed that the Aboriginal land rights movement was little more than a plot to create a separate black nation in Australia.\n\nThis was a time of great change in the fight for civil rights in Queensland. A new Premier, Joh Bjelke-Petersen, was sworn in during this time and many protests took place questioning this governments policies on civil liberties.\nJoh Bjelke-Petersen\n\nJoh Bjelke-Petersen was elected the Premier of Queensland from 1968 until 1987. The QCCL was constantly involved with this government due to their repeated breaches of civil liberties. A substantial reason the council was created was to quell police misconduct and corruption and shortly after their formation, Bjelke-Petersen began what was concurrently described as a \"corrupt and vicious regime.Police were accused of intimidatory tactics, brutality, and essentially of forming a police state in Queensland acting virtually as a private army for the regime.\"\n\nIn 1969 Bjelke-Petersen's censorship campaign extended from written publication into the theatre and prosecution began for utterances as well as written prose. As a result, Brisbane actor Norman Staines was arrested for the use of an obscene phrase during his one act performance of the play \"Norm and Ahmed\". Staines was arrested by police, locked up and charged with using an obscene expression under \"The Vagrants, Gaming and Other Offences Act 1931–67\", as a result almost every theatre company in Brisbane attacked the existing censorship system. This led to the promoter of the musical \"Hair\" refusing to bring the show to Brisbane theaters, in response cabinet member Russ Hinze condemned \"Hair\" as being appealing to only the 'sexually-depraved, or a group of homosexuals, lesbians, wifeswappers and spivs.'\n\nThe Springbok Tour\nIn July 1971, an Australian Rugby team the Wallabies played a test game against the Springboks, a white South African team. This was at a time of growing international opposition to South Africa's racist apartheid policies, and The Springbok's visit allowed the Queensland Premier, Bjelke-Petersen, to declare a state of emergency for a month. Police violence erupted when several hundred demonstrators assembled outside a Brisbane motel on Thursday 22 July 1971 where the Springbok team was staying. Observers claimed that the police, without warning or cause, charged at the demonstrators. Another confrontation took place between demonstrators and the police on the Friday night all but stopped short of physical violence. On Saturday evening, a large number of demonstrators assembled once more outside the Tower Mill Motel and after 15 minutes of peaceful protest, a brick was thrown into the motel room and police took action to clear the road and consequently disproportionate violence was used against demonstrators. A Journalist Hugh Lunn wrote that Bjelke-Petersen's state of emergency and police mobilisation resembled a full-scale operation, explaining the consequent inconvenience to the public, which accompanied the following demonstrations and police reaction, obscured the civil rights issues. Current Vice-President of the QCCL at the time, Terry O'Gorman, was first exposed to these abuses of civil rights during the Springbok Tour and when Bjelke-Petersen \"declared a State of Emergency to ensure the match proceeded without incident.\"\n\nThis era was an extremely contentious time for civil rights in Queensland. The first inquiry into police corruption under Bjelke-Petersen's government began; a major demonstrations took place and, it was an important era for women's rights in Queensland. Terry O'Gorman, one of the QCCL's most influential members, was also elected as President of the QCCL in 1979, taking over from Derek Fielding during this time.Terry O'Gorman and the QCCL members witnessed police corruption and the manner in which their clients were treated, which resulted in them \"taking matters into their own hands\" and secretly filming police. This would later be used as evidence against them in The Lucas Inquiry.\n\nThe Lucas Inquiry\n\nThe Lucas Inquiry, chaired by Justice GAG Lucas, began in 1976 and was constituted to look into police corruption. It was prompted by the QCCL, along with the Queensland Law Society, who demanded an inquiry after a continual stream of stories of police corruption began to surface in the media.\n\nThe aims of this inquiry were to:\n\n\nThe Lucas Inquiry emanated from the 'Southport Betting Case,' a trial in which a number of high-ranking police officers were alleged to have fabricated evidence to clear two bookmakers of prosecution. In November 1974 two suspected 'starting price' bookmakers, Brian Leonard George Sieber and Stanley Derwent Saunders, were charged and arrested \"with possession of instruments of betting.\" It was alleged these two men, and many other bookmakers operating in Brisbane and on the Gold Coast, were chief sources of \"corrupt payments to police\" in the Licensing Branch, a subsection of the Criminal Intelligence Unit. The CIU was a police department \"formed to collect, record and disseminate intelligence on organized crime and corruption, and to apprehend and prosecute those involved.\" In 1975, the results of the trial found neither men guilty and the loss was devastating to the campaign against both corruption and the integrity of the CIU. \"The Criminal Intelligence Unit had failed to secure a prosecution in a seemingly iron-clad case-one where money was actually paid over, the vital conversations had been taped and most of the activities had been observed by members of the CIU.\" This 'cover up' prompted the investigation into police behaviour, resulting in The Lucas Inquiry.Terry O'Gorman said at the National Convention on Civil Liberties, held in 1976, \"the conclusions on the Southport Case cast serious doubt on the reliability and integrity of inspectors in the Queensland Police Force.\"\n\nThe Lucas report resulted in findings of significant police misconduct,corruption, assault and proof of police \"planting evidence, forging warrants and fabricating confessions.\" \"It made 57 recommendations and spoke of the urgent need to reform the entire criminal law system to help the police and protect the public.\" One of the reports recommendations were that police interviews be recorded to reduce verballing. The practice of verballing relates to the \"putting of damaging remarks into the mouths of suspects during police interrogation\" or the \"fabrication of evidence.\" O'Gorman, although praising the recommended introduction of tape recordings during police interviews, was highly critical of the report as there were no police charged with misconduct and many were even promoted. He said \"the inquiry has made the comment that here we have these officers who have not only not been proceeded against but a number of the principal offenders have been promoted. What sort of a police force do we have if the upper echelons of the police force are led to believe that mis-deeds will be rewarded by subsequent promotion.\"\n\nThe Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme Demonstration.\n\nOn 29 July 1976, over a thousand students from The University of Queensland marched against Australian Government's financial assistance scheme for student, known as the Tertiary Education Scheme in Brisbane's central business district. Those students were on the side of better Federal Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances for students and against the government's decision on Federal education budget cuts. Bjelke-Petersen instructed the police not to grant a permit for the march, and the police stopped the march along Coronation Drive. An officer struck Rose Marie Severin, who was a female student in the head with a baton during the struggle. This was recorded and reported on television that night and gave Severin a complicated time as a public figure regardless of her choice. A student quoted on The Courier-Mail reported that she was not a radical; she was only trying to get out of the situation when she got a crack on the head from behind. QCCL attempted to take legal action on behalf of Severin but she reluctantly dropped the charges because she did not want any more publicity in the middle of university exams so the case did not continue any further.\n\nStreet Protest Ban of 1977\n\nIn September 1977 the Queensland Government introduced a ban on all street protests, resulting in a statewide civil liberties campaign of defiance. This saw two thousand people arrested and fined, with another hundred being imprisoned, at a cost of almost five million dollars to the State Government. Bjelke-Petersen publicly announced on 4 September 1977 that \"the day of the political street march is over...Don't bother to apply for a permit. You won't get one. That's government policy now.\" The main purposes for the ban appear to have been; \n1. To remove a critical forum for mobilizing political pressure from the Anti-nuclear movement in Australia \n2. To ensure that shipments of Uranium oxide could continue to be transported from the Mary Kathleen mine to Brisbane and further loaded onto overseas bound vessels without disruption from demonstrators\n3. To provide Bjelke-Petersen with a law and order issue for the upcoming state elections. Under the old Traffic Act, if an applicant was refused a permit to march by the issuing authority, they would be able to appeal to the magistrate. Instead, the new laws sent all appeals to the police commissioner which resulted in appeals not being passed. In response to this, protesters came up with the idea of Phantom Civil Liberties Marches where protesters would gather and march until the police and media arrived. They would then disperse, and gather together again until the media and police returned, repeating the process over and over again.\n\nCensorship into the 1980s\n\nIn the lead up to the 1980s Queensland fell subject to many forms of censorship. In 1977 things had escalated from prosecutions and book burnings, under the introduction of the Literature Board of Review, to the statewide ban on protests and street marches. Despite the banning of marches in Queensland, numbers involved with the QCCL and similar protest groups continued to rise. Although the State Government felt that it was doing the right thing for Queenslanders, the QCCL argued that 'it is precisely these 'mob [protesters]' who got Australia out of the war in Vietnam; who stopped relations with South Africa sport; and are now joining with and broadening the trade union opposition to Fraser's uranium policy.' Since the formation of the QCCL tens of thousands of people got involved in rallies, pickets, and abortive and secret marches for civil liberties in nearly all of Queensland's major cities. This led to over 2000 people being arrested and some 4500 charges being given by police, despite the innumerable protest applications, all but one were denied.\n\nThroughout the late 1970s, more and more publications were banned reaching almost a hundred per year. In 1974 the Queensland Literature Board said that 'the prohibition of this material has nothing to do with the freedom of the individual to read... The pedlar, however, of all this whether he emerges from the lavatory of some gilded lair, must be restrained from using the magnificent services of printing, publication and distribution to present to all of us (and there is none of us immune to these depravities), the degradation of humans taking their sex as animals.' In 1978 the Full Court of Queensland convicted Forum magazine for its use of offensive language and the claims to dispel public ignorance in sexual matters. Strangely enough the very next year when the Australian versions of \"Penthouse\" and \"Playboy\" hit the stands, the Board did not instantly ban them. It wasn't until 1982 that Australian Playboy was banned. By this stage Queenslanders had begun to question the legitimacy of the board, even going so far as to call it an embarrassment to the state.\n\nWomen's Rights\n\nAbortion was a topic which divided and concerned the early QCCL and meant that the many inquiries they received were passed onto Women's clinics. The Council was not pro-life, they were pro-choice.\n\nIn 1976, a recommendation was made by the Federal Royal Commission on Human Relationships to support the right for a woman to terminate an unwanted pregnancy. The Councils Abortion Sub-Committee and Dr Janet Irwin presented an Abortion policy to the Council's meeting. The policy was revised and amended to note that considerations must be given to the foetus as a potential human being, this version was accepted. \"The report stated that abortion was a health services that should be provided along with family planning, that a woman was the one best qualified to make the decision for herself about abortion, and that amendment should be made to the Criminal Code to enable abortions to be carried out by a registered medical practitioner or a person acting under the supervision and authority of a registered medical practitioner\".\n\nHowever, as the Government's Pregnancy Termination Control Bill contained extensive restrictions and penalties for abortion, the demonstration against abortion legislation was held in 1980. Women who claimed for their right to make their decision about abortion participated against the Bill for a violation of civil rights and discrimination against women. Members of Children by Choice, an organisation for women who believe they have rights to make a choice to have an abortion, welcomed to have civil libertarians at the demonstration.\n\nThe Council worked to prohibit discrimination of women in the workplace on many issues; marital status, pregnancy, breastfeeding and sexual harassment and discrimination. The Federal Discrimination Act of 1984 worked to assist the International Labor Organisations convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination.\n\nDomestic Violence\n\nThe issue of domestic violence was addressed some 20 years into the establishment of the QCCL, who held a public meeting on the issue in 1989. The Domestic Violence (Family Protection) Act 1989 aimed to prevent violence between married partners or de factos. The Council made a submission in reference to the increased police powers proposed by the Act as they were concerned about the increase in police powers and the use of weapons. A Weapons Bill was introduced in 1990 and QCCL President Terry O'Gorman said \"The Weapons Bill struck the correct balance between gun ownership and use on the one hand … and the crying imperative to do something positive about the unnecessary loss of life which has flowed from the ability of the disturbed or violent to buy a gun today .. and kill a stranger or a loved one tomorrow\". The Council has since supported the amendments of The Domestic Violence Act to ban offenders from possessing guns while they were under a Protection Order.\n\nIn 2012 the Domestic and Family Violence Protection Act was amended to reflect contemporary understandings of domestic and family violence. Examples of relationships that fall under the new act are same-sex relationships & \"one night stands\" where a child is produced.\n\nRights of Prostitutes\n\nThe QCCL addresses the issue of sex discrimination and many other issues relative to women's rights in prostitution. In 1991, The Council made a submission to the Criminal Justice Commission to have prostitution decriminalised on the basis that it was a waste of police resources, saying the law was hypocritical and expressing that a connection existed between the criminalisation of prostitution and police corruption.\n\nFollowing the submission, the CJC released a report 'Regulating Morality – An Inquiry into Prostitution into Queensland' suggesting a three-year trial of the decriminalisation of prostitution and the move to brothels in Queensland. However, the Prostitution Laws Amendment Act 1992 was passed without the inclusion of any of the CJC's recommendations, as the government stated that these recommendations would prove \"costly and unworkable.\"\n\nThe Act banned brothels, a prostitute's ability to legally advertise their services and red-light districts which meant that prostitutes were forced to walk the streets to gather work. Terry O'Gorman stated in his 1992 Presidents Report that the 1992 Act would have negative health consequences on those who worked in the sex industry and an increase in police powers.\n\nThe Councils continued rallying,creating of submissions and discussions with government officials resulted in the provision of the Prostitution Act 1999. The Act created the State's first legal boutique brothels which could be legally established by a person with no criminal convictions in commercial or industrial areas, have a maximum of five rooms and which could employ two to ten staff.\nThe 1999 Act proved effective for The Queensland Sex Industry and Terry O'Gorman stated in an interview in 2005 with the ABC, on Tasmania's re-working of the Sex Industry Offences Act,\"What the Tasmanian Parliament have got to do is look at other models that have worked well in Australia, particularly the Queensland model, where you've got state approved brothels where prostitution in those circumstances are legal,\" he said.\n\nSexual Rights\n\nIn a press release published on 28 October 1989, the QCCL states that a person's sexuality was entirely his or her own business and not the Governments and this view set the tone for the QCCL's involvement in the sexual rights of Queenslanders. In 1976, the Council opposed the Department of Education's decision not to employ a student teacher, despite a contract, due to his sexuality. Their opposition was unsuccessful.In the following years, the Council worked to oppose discriminatory Government action against the gay community. President of the time, Matt Foley found gaps in the amended Liquor Act which forbid hotel licensees to allow drug dealers, sexual perverts, deviants and child molesters on licensed Premises, but failed to define what a 'deviant' was.\n\nQCCL President Steven Keim campaigned against the harassment of the gay community through letters and by enlisting the help of Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and trade, who wrote a letter to the Queensland Premier, Mike Ahern, urging him to change the laws. The Government refused to comply and as the Council was feeling under pressure, the Gay Law Reform Association formed. The Council supported the work of the Association as a more effective way to campaign. Most recently, the Council have supported to gay and lesbian groups in seeking the recognition of single sex relationships. Single sex relationships are recognised in areas such as domestic violence, succession law, and the division of jointly owned property.\n\nTerry O'Gorman\n\nIn 1979, Terry O'Gorman was elected President of the QCCL and served as president up until 1985.He again held presidency from 1990 to 1994.He is currently the Vice President of the QCCL.O'Gorman specialises in criminal law, yet it was the area of Aboriginal Aid in which he first commenced his legal career.An influential member of the QCCL, \"it was during the days as a university student and under the rule of Joh Bjelke-Petersen that he first became aware of the need to protect civil rights.\" In 2008 O'Gorman commented that \"civil liberties on the streets have improved, but the battle has moved to a 'law and order auction' being played out in the media, which used to be centred around the political cycle but now appears to be a permanent fixture.\"\n\nThis was yet another tumultuous period for the QCCL. Another police inquiry began,The Police Complaints Tribunal,and the Commonwealth Games were held in 1982 amongst protests campaigning for Indigenous rights. By 1982, it was now obviously clear to the QCCL that none of the 57 Lucas recommendations had been implemented. More claims of corrupt policing surfaced and any police officer who 'whistle blew' on another police officer would soon find their careers destroyed.\n\nThe Police Complaints Tribunal\n\nThis tribunal was set up in 1982 and lasted until 1990.It was yet another inquiry into police corruption and also a concerted effort to improve public opinion on accusations of corruption within the police force. The QCCL president at the time, Terry O'Gorman, believed this would be better than the previous inquiry, of \"police investigating themselves,\" although said there would still be the deterrent for persons lodging a complaint as there were limited protections for the complainant against police retaliation.O'Gorman also claimed the PCT \"lacked independence, which was confirmed by a damning public revelation of police malpractice which appeared on a Four Corners episode in 1986.\" In one case a man claimed he was forced to make a full confession to police in response to their \"threats to harm his family, and when he lodged a complaint with the PCT, it vindicated the police and totally discredited him.\"\n\nThe Commonwealth Games Act 1982\nStreet marches were banned during the 1982 Commonwealth Games, allowing police to make arrests to anyone holding a placard or circulating a booklet about any Aboriginal issue near Game venues following by the Government's approval of the Commonwealth Games Act 1982 which would in effect attempt to prevent Aborigines from bringing out Land Right's issues during the Games. Queensland police gave permits to only two marches from the centre of Brisbane to protest rallies at Musgrave Park, Brisbane before the Games. On 26 September 1982, the day the Games commenced, nearly 2,000 people marched carrying placards and banners across the Brisbane River and on 29 September, the march was reduced by half. Thirty-nine people were arrested at a demonstration on the opening of the Commonwealth Games and a few days later, police arrested 104 protesters who were charged under the Queensland Government's Commonwealth Games security laws. A further 260 protesters were also arrested within three days of the opening of the Games. However, the demonstration did not stop and continued in Melbourne. Despite the numerous arrests, these protests were considered successful for gaining national and international attention not only about the Indigenous issues but the right to protest peacefully.\n\nThis era was another turning point for civil rights in Queensland with the end of a controversial Premier Joh Bjelke-Petersen's reign and the beginning of The Fitzgerald Inquiry. It was not until 1987 that Terry O'Gorman's brother Assistant Police Commissioner Frank O'Gorman implemented the reforms recommended by the Lucas Inquiry in 1977.\n\nThe Fitzgerald Inquiry\n\nThe Fitzgerald Inquiry began in 1987 and Tony Fitzgerald, QC, was appointed as its head on 26 May. The inquiry was a turning point in the fight for civil rights and the investigation of police misconduct and corruption. The inquiry was 'sparked' by frequent media talk of corruption by police at the highest level, involving alleged \"illegal gambling, prostitution, kickbacks and brown paper bags.\" Yet it was an episode on Four Corners entitled 'Moonlight State' that ignited the inquiry.\nThe inquiry's objectives were to view \"five criminal identities and any corrupt links within the police force over the previous five years.\"Fitzgerald persuaded the Government to extend the terms of the inquiry to give him the power to investigate any criminal activities and official misconduct by the police. Members of the Council were elated with the inquiry, believing that Fitzgerald was a strong candidate for the role.\n\nThe intention of the Fitzgerald report was to \"usher in a bold new age of transparency, innovation and integrity in politics and public sector management.\"Fitzgerald envisioned a model of transparency in government, just elections,and non-corrupt policing through \"the elimination of graft and gratuities;the removal of cronyism, nepotism and bias in public service appointments and decisions; and a scientifically grounded criminal justice system focused on crime prevention and progressive law reform.\"\n\nDuring the Inquiry, then president of the QCCL Terry O'Gorman cross-examined Joh Bjelke-Petersen, who had attempted to shut down the inquiry unsuccessfully. In 1987, during the process of the Fitzgerald Inquiry, it had become glaringly clear to the National Party that their leader, Bjelke Petersen, was a political liability and he was consequently forced to stand down as Premier on 1 December.\n\nThe inquiry lasted two years, heard from 339 witnesses and resulted in over 100 recommendations.Many policies recommended by the Council were endorsed in the report. The report and recommendations of the Fitzgerald inquiry were released in July 1989 and exposed evidence that a \"corrupt elite were running Queensland – politicians, police and businessmen who were criminally involved in a world of drugs, prostitution and covert deals.\" \"Tony Fitzgerald did not want to be confined to looking just at specific allegations against specific people – he wanted the freedom to look into 'any other matter or thing appertaining to the aforesaid matters', and he did not want to look only at related matters but at any matter whether it related or not. By the time he was finished looking, the police commissioner had toppled, 30 years of National Party Government was all but over, Queensland was fundamentally altered and Fitzgerald, by giving indemnities in return for evidence, had set a new standard for commissions of inquiry.\" Also after the inquiry there were encouraging reforms that occurred in regards to the legalisation of homosexuality, and a more liberal and regulated approach to gambling.\n\nThe Criminal Justice Commission\n\nOperating from 1989 to 2001, The Criminal Justice Commission was a permanent institution designed to assist the implementation of the recommended reforms in the Fitzgerald Inquiry. The Criminal Justice Commissions \"is empowered under the Criminal Justice Act to investigate all cases of alleged or suspected misconduct by members of the Police Service that come to its notice from any source, including information from an anonymous source.\" The CJC called for the abolishment of the Police Special Branch which held files on individuals who had shown lawful opposition toward government policies, as well as other many other reforms in the past. The QCCL's O'Gorman did not approve of the destruction of these files, until those who the files concerned,I.e. those who had participated in anti-government protests, were able to access the files themselves. One of the Council's primary concerns was \"that the CJC had broad investigative powers overriding many basic protections which citizens had been entitled to in law.\"For example, \"the Council believed that names should not be published in CJC reports because the publication of such names with respect to findings clearly had the potential to damage individuals reputations, and prejudice any criminal proceeding that might follow.\"\n\nIn 1997 police 'move on' powers were introduced by the Government of Queensland which effectively gave police the power to 'move people on' from, \"prescribed places such as shops, schools, licensed premises, railway station or shopping mall.The CMC states \"police essentially have the power to move people on if they are causing anxiety to another person,\" yet Terry O'Gorman states \"it is a sad fact that in many circumstances certain people will feel threatened by an Aboriginal person, not because of their behaviour but by the very fact that they are Indigenous.\" O'Gorman argues that \"the effect of section 47 of the Act is that police officers are asking themselves, is this person, by the fact of who they are or what they look like, likely to cause anxiety to others and when making this determination, issues of race, apparel, state of cleanliness and social status are likely to come into play and work against minority groups, such as Indigenous Australians.\"\n\nSince 2001, the QCCL is still as relevant as it always has been.It has kept a close watch on the new police corruption commission, the Crime and Misconduct Commission, as well as drug driving and privacy laws.\n\nThe Crime and Misconduct Commission\n\nThis was a new commission formed in 2001, which is still in existence and their objectives are \"to combat major crime,to improve the integrity of the Queensland public sector and reduce the incidence of misconduct in this sector.\" Other responsibilities of this Commission are to manage a witness protection scheme.\nThe Council has been critical of the CMC.For example,in 2010, the QCCL called for major reforms in the police complaints process after footage was released of Cameron Doomadgee, a man who died in the 2004 Palm Island death in custody.Terry O'Gorman said the system had failed as the CMC came to the conclusion that the officers being investigated over the incident \"were unprofessional and part of a self- protecting police culture.\" The Queensland Council for Civil Liberties is linked to the CMC as it is expected in many cases to \"assume responsibility for ensuring the CMC review is not rushed or poorly deliberated and it is only through such proactive work that the discriminatory nature of this legislation will be sufficiently revealed.\n\nDifficult Rights\n\nProtecting civilian's privacy has been at the forefront of the Council's negotiations since their founding. The Council's job has been made more difficult since the introduction of social media sites and generally platforms for where a persons privacy could be jeopardised.\n\nAlso protecting the rights of criminals and in particular, the civil rights of sex offenders is an example of the difficult space the Council works in. In a recent article, following convicted child molester Dennis Ferguson's placement in Murgon, the Australian Council for Civil Liberties stated that the government must provide child molesters some form of protection from community uproar, attacks and generally restricting an individuals civil liberties.\nThe council spoke out in 2009 over the controversial 'drug driving' laws being introduced arguing that they breach ones civil liberties and that there will be an extension of police powers that accompany this.\n\nIn 2010 protesters in opposition to coal-seam gas mining took to the streets of Brisbane and complained of police officers taking unauthorised photos of them and asking for their contact details. QCCL president Michael Cope said at the time \"police taking photos was an invasion of privacy and entirely unacceptable\" and was similar to the days of Bjelke-Petersens reign when photos were taken of protesters and kept within government files.\n\nOn 13 September 2010, QCCL president Michael Cope commented in The Courier-Mail on Brisbane lawyer, Alexander Stewart, who posted a YouTube video of himself smoking pages from the Bible and the Koran. The man appears to be smoking a green 'marijuana' type substance and says of the incident, \"It's just a f—ing book. Who cares? It's your beliefs that matter. Quite frankly, if you are going to get upset about a book, you're taking life way too seriously.\" Cope commented on the event saying \"I don't think on the face of it that what he's done is an offense nor do we think it should be\". He said he did not believe that the anti-discrimination Act had been breached and also that \"penalties had been removed from the Criminal Code for blasphemy.\"\n\nThe Council continues to work on many issues to assist in the protection of the civil liberties of all citizens.\n\nIn 2012, Terry O'Gorman spoke out against Queensland Premier Campbell Newman's announcement he will be introducing jail terms for the possession of illegal firearms and trafficking weapons. In addition, the state government is looking into repealing \"Labors Criminal Organisation Act, where associating with members or declared organisations\" will be illegal. This has been compared to the laws which Joh Bjelke-Petersen enacted in his reign and has been described as an \"anti association law, rather than an anti-bikie law,\" and therefore affecting ones civil liberties.The QCCL are watching developments closely.\n\nThe Council is also looking into the introduction of body scans at Australian airports.This is where full body scan machines at airports of which random members are selected to go through and allows screeners to detect non-metallic devices, objects and weapons concealed on a person's body, but they also reveals body outlines, organs and genitals.The Queensland Council for Civil Liberties has opposed their use, calling them \"a virtual strip search.\" The Council is concerned about the impact of this equipment on citizens rights to privacy and has made several submissions to the state and federal Government on this particular issue.\n\nEach president of the Queensland Council for Civil Liberties has dedicated significant time and energy into the survival and success of this council. Individually, they each contributed by carrying out the work of the council, running meetings, raising funds and increasing membership.\n\nThe presidents are as follows:\n\n\nWebsite: http://qccl.org.au\n\nFacebook: https://www.facebook.com/QCCLonline\n\n"}
{"id": "42232333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42232333", "title": "Recyclebot", "text": "Recyclebot\n\nA recyclebot (or RecycleBot) is an open-source hardware device for converting waste plastic into filament for open-source 3D printers like the RepRap. Making DIY 3D printer filament at home is both less costly and better for the environment than purchasing conventional 3D printer filament. In following the RepRap tradition there are recyclebot designs that use most 3-D printable parts.\n\nRepRap 3D printers have been shown to reduce costs for consumers by offsetting purchases that can be printed. The RepRap's plastic feedstock is one area where cost can still be reduced. In 2014 professor Joshua Pearce pointed out that \"Filament is retailing for between $36 and $50 a kilogram and you can produce your own filament for 10 cents a kilogram if you use recycled plastic\" The device can thus further enhance RepRap affordability by reducing operating costs. In addition, to assisting prosumers to reduce their reliance on purchased products, following an open source model, the RepRap and the recyclebot, have made it feasible for 3D printing to be used for small-scale manufacturing to aid sustainable development.\n\nThe RecycleBot is an open-source hardware project – thus its plans are freely available on the Internet.\n\nIt has been postulated that recycled filament production could also offer an alternative income source by the Ethical Filament Foundation or as a form of \"fair trade filament\". It has also been shown to improve the energy payback time of even known green energy technologies like solar photovoltaics.\n\nThe history of the RecycleBot was largely derived from the work on the RepRap Wiki under GNU Free Documentation License1.2.\n\nThe first recyclebot was developed by students at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand. This design was a proof of concept and was a hand-powered design, which thus had a good environmental or ecological footprint, but did not create filament of high enough quality to be useful for 3D printers. The design for the waste plastic extruder (Recyclebot v2.0 and v2.1) developed at Queen's University Canada and Michigan Tech was heavily influenced by the Web4Deb extruder, which extrudes HDPE for use as a growth medium in aquaponics. This design for the recyclebot was developed, tested and published in the peer-reviewed rapid prototyping literature. This device proved viable for producing 3D printing filament. The Recyclebot v2.2 is now being carried out by the Michigan Tech in Open Sustainability Technology Research Group. Many makers or DIY enthusiasts have made various versions of RecycleBots, with the most notable being the Lyman Filament Extruder as Lyman, a retired engineer won a design contest to make a low-cost 3D filament fabrication system. There are now many types of recyclebots, many of which are at the early stages of commercialization (in 2014).\n\nJeremy Rifkin has hypothesized that such recycling with recyclebots and distributed production with 3D printing will lead to a zero marginal cost society.\nThe science-fiction author, Bruce Sterling wondered in Wired if recyclebots and 3D printers might be used to turn waste into guns. Recyclebots can provide a new method of recycling.\n"}
{"id": "48573794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48573794", "title": "Rita Schwerner Bender", "text": "Rita Schwerner Bender\n\nRita Levant Schwerner Bender (born 1942) is a civil rights activist and lawyer. She and her first husband Michael (Mickey) Schwerner participated in the Freedom Summer of 1964, where Michael was murdered by the Ku Klux Klan. As his young widow, she drew national attention for her commentary on racial prejudice in the United States, delivered at a press conference after her husband went missing. After the Civil Rights Movement, Schwerner became an attorney, now practicing family law in Washington state. She continues to advocate for civil rights today through her law practice and public presentations.\n\nSchwerner and husband Michael both grew up in New York. They married when she was 20, he 22.\n\nRita Schwerner became active in the civil rights movement first in the north; she and Michael were both arrested at a civil rights protest in Baltimore in July 1963.\n\nThe Schwerners moved to Meridian, Mississippi in January 1964. She was a teacher, and the two worked at a freedom school and registering black voters.\n\nThe summer of 1964, known as \"Freedom Summer\" was an endeavor to register more black voters in the deep south. It was headed up by civil rights activist groups such as the Congress for Racial Equality (CORE), and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). Rita Schwerner and her husband Michael (Mickey) were among a group of three hundred students who went to Mississippi to help with the voting campaign. They were 22 and 24 years old.\n\nIn June 1964, the Schwerners were attending a civil rights activism training in Ohio when they learned a church involved in the movement in Neshoba County, Mississippi, had been burned down and its clergy beaten. Michael Schwerner, James Chaney, a black man, and Andrew Goodman, who was white (as were the Schwerners) drove the Schwerner family station wagon back to Mississippi to investigate. On Sunday June 21, the three men were driving together when they were stopped by Neshoba deputy sheriff Cecil Price outside of the town of Philadelphia, Mississippi. Price arrested the three men on charge of speeding and locked them in the jailhouse, only to release them around 10pm that night. The men were never seen again. Rita Schwerner was still in Ohio when she learned of their disappearance, and two days later, at the Cincinnati airport with Fannie Lou Hamer and getting ready to travel back to Mississippi, Schwerner learned their station wagon had been found burned, in a swamp.\n\nSchwerner returned to Mississippi, for safety \"staying [at a] black-owned hotel, with a guard organized by black ministers keeping watch outside.\"\n\nSchwerner spoke actively, pressing President Johnson to expand the federal government's efforts to find them. The national media covered the story in detail, and FBI posters went up for the three all over the country. In the wake of this national crisis and the disappearance of her husband, Rita Schwerner was interviewed by the media in Meridian, Mississippi and gave this response to the situation:\n\nIt is tragic, as far as I am concerned, that white northerners have to be caught up in the machinery of injustice and indifference in the South. Before the American people register concern, I personally suspect that if Mr. Cheney, who is a native Mississippian negro, had been alone at the time of the disappearance that this case like so many other that have come before would have been completely unnoticed. \n\nSoon it was discovered that Schwerner, Cheney, and Goodman had been murdered by the Ku Klux Klan. Sheriff Price was affiliated with the Klan and had participated in the murder.\n\nThree years later, Price was convicted with the killing of the three men and was given six years in prison. He died in 2001 at the age of 63. While there were other Klan members involved in the murder, only six of them were convicted along with Price.\n\nAfter her husband's death, Schwerner stayed in Mississippi and continued to pursue civil rights work with the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. In particular she worked on an action \"challeng[ing] the all-white Mississippi delegation\" to the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City: \"Delegates used borrowed passes to march on the convention floor and were hauled away by guards, galvanizing Mississippi's black population. Rita Schwerner testivied [sic] before the credentials committee with Freedom Democratic Party members standing in silent tribute.\"\n\nAfter her work in the Civil Right Movement, Schwerner decided to go to law school and become an attorney. She attended Rutgers School of Law in New Jersey in 1965, graduating three years after her husband was murdered. Out of 150 students in the graduating class of 1968, Schwerner was one of five women. She later worked for the ACLU.\n\nWhile studying at Rutgers, she also met her second husband, William J. Bender.\n\nRita Schwerner Bender is now a private family practice attorney in Washington State. Her areas of specialty are family law, adoption and assisted reproduction, professional ethics and discipline, and \"specializes in providing indigent defendants access to legal assistance.\" Bender continues to be active in the fight for civil rights today, speaking on topics like \"Searching for Restorative Justice: The Trial of Edgar Ray Killen\" and \"Racial Disparity in Education and State Action.\" Additionally, Bender has written or co-written several publications pertaining to her areas of law practice. A few of her works are \"FAQ: Surrogacy, Sperm Donation and Egg Donation in Washington for Prospective Gay and Lesbian Parents\" (with Raegen N. Rasnic and Janet M. Helson) and \"Washington State Legal Technician Rule: Myths and Facts,\" which appeared in the Washington State Bar news in 2008.\n"}
{"id": "13526782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13526782", "title": "SaltMod", "text": "SaltMod\n\nSaltMod is computer program for the prediction of the salinity of soil moisture, groundwater and drainage water, the depth of the watertable, and the drain discharge (hydrology) in irrigated agricultural lands, using different (geo)hydrologic conditions, varying water management options, including the use of ground water for irrigation, and several cropping rotation schedules.\nThe water management options include irrigation, drainage, and the use of subsurface drainage water from pipe drains, ditches or wells for irrigation.\n\nThe majority of the computer models available for water and solute transport in the soil (e.g. Swatre, DrainMod ) are based on Richard's differential equation for the movement of water in unsaturated soil in combination with a differential salinity dispersion equation. The models require input of soil characteristics like the relation between unsaturated soil moisture content, water tension, hydraulic conductivity and dispersivity.\n\nThese relations vary to a great extent from place to place and are not easy to measure. The models use short time steps and need at least a daily data base of hydrological phenomena. Altogether this makes model application to a fairly large project the job of a team of specialists with ample facilities.\nLiterature references (chronological) to case studies after 2000: \n\n<br>\nOlder examples of application can be found in:\n\nThere is a need for a computer program that is easier to operate and that requires a simpler data structure than most currently available models. Therefore, the SaltModod program was designed keeping in mind a relative simplicity of operation to facilitate the use by field technicians, engineers and project planners instead of specialized geo-hydrologists.\n\nIt aims at using input data that are generally available, or that can be estimated with reasonable accuracy, or that can be measured with relative ease. Although the calculations are done numerically and have to be repeated many times, the final results can be \"checked by hand\" using the formulas in the manual.\n\nSaltMod's objective is to predict the long-term hydro-salinity in terms of general trends, not to arrive at exact predictions of how, for example, the situation would be on the first of April in ten years from now.\n\nFurther, SaltMod gives the option of the re-use of drainage and well water (e.g. for irrigation) and it can account for farmers' response to waterlogging, soil salinity, water scarcity and over-pumping from the aquifer. Also it offers the possibility to introduce subsurface drainage systems at varying depths and with varying capacity so that they can be optimized.\nOther features of Saltmod are found in the next section.\n\nThe computation method Saltmod is based on seasonal water balances of agricultural lands. Four seasons in one year can be distinguished, e.g. dry, wet, cold, hot, irrigation or fallow seasons. The number of seasons (Ns) can be chosen between a minimum of one and a maximum of four. The larger the number of seasons becomes, the larger is the number of input data required. The duration of each season (Ts) is given in number of months (0 < Ts < 12). Day to day water balances are not considered for several reasons:\n\nThe method uses seasonal water balance components as input data. These are related to the surface hydrology (like rainfall, evaporation, irrigation, use of drain and well water for irrigation, runoff), and the aquifer hydrology (like upward seepage, natural drainage, pumping from wells). The other water balance components (like downward percolation, upward capillary rise, subsurface drainage) are given as output.<br>\nThe quantity of drainage water, as an output, is determined by two drainage intensity factors for drainage above and below drain level respectively (to be given with the input data), a drainage reduction factor (to simulate a limited operation of the drainage system), and the height of the water table, resulting from the computed water balance. Variation of the drainage intensity factors and the drainage reduction factor gives the opportunity to simulate the effect of different drainage options.\n\nThe input data on irrigation, evaporation, and surface runoff are to be specified per season for three kinds of agricultural practices, which can be chosen at the discretion of the user: \nThe groups, expressed in fractions of the total area, may consist of combinations of crops or just of a single kind of crop. For example, as the A type crops one may specify the lightly irrigated cultures, and as the B type the more heavily irrigated ones, such as sugarcane and rice. But one can also take A as rice and B as sugarcane, or perhaps trees and orchards. The A, B and/or U crops can be taken differently in different seasons, e.g. A=wheat+barley in winter and A=maize in summer while B=vegetables in winter and B=cotton in summer.<br> \n\nSaltmod accepts four different reservoirs, three of which are in the soil profile:\nThe upper soil reservoir is defined by the soil depth from which water can evaporate or be taken up by plant roots. It can be equal to the rootzone.<br>\nThe root zone can be saturated, unsaturated, or partly saturated, depending on the water balance. All water movements in this zone are vertical, either upward or downward, depending on the water balance. (In a future version of Saltmod, the upper soil reservoir may be divided into two equal parts to detect the trend in the vertical salinity distribution.)<br>\nThe transition zone can also be saturated, unsaturated or partly saturated. All flows in this zone are vertical, except the flow to subsurface drains.<br>\nIf a horizontal subsurface drainage system is present, this must be placed in the transition zone, which is then divided into two parts: an upper transition zone (above drain level) and a lower transition zone (below drain level).<br>\nIf one wishes to distinguish an upper and lower part of the transition zone in the absence of a subsurface drainage system, one may specify in the input data a drainage system with zero intensity.<br>\nThe aquifer has mainly horizontal flow. Pumped wells, if present, receive their water from the aquifer only.\n\nThe water balances are calculated for each reservoir separately as shown in the article Hydrology (agriculture). The excess water leaving one reservoir is converted into incoming water for the next reservoir.<br>\nThe three soil reservoirs can be assigned a different thickness and storage coefficients, to be given as input data.<br>\nIn a particular situation, the transition zone or the aquifer need not be present. Then, it must be given a minimum thickness of 0.1 m.<br>\nThe depth of the water table, calculated from the water balances, is assumed to be the same for the whole area. If this assumption is not acceptable, the area must be divided into separate units.<br>\nUnder certain conditions, the height of the water table influences the water balance components. For example a rise of the water table towards the soil surface may lead to an increase of evaporation, surface runoff, and subsurface drainage, or a decrease of percolation losses from canals. This, in turn, leads to a change of the water balance, which again influences the height of the water table, etc.<br>\nThis chain of reactions is one of the reasons why Saltmod has been developed into a computer program. It takes a number of repeated calculations (iterations) to find the correct equilibrium of the water balance, which would be a tedious job if done by hand. Other reasons are that a computer program facilitates the computations for different water management options over long periods of time (with the aim to simulate their long-term effects) and for trial runs with varying parameters.\n\nThe sub-surface drainage can be accomplished through drains or pumped wells.<br>\nThe subsurface drains are characterized by drain depth and \"drainage capacity factor \". The drains are located in the transition zone. The subsurface drainage facility can be applied to natural or artificial drainage systems. The functioning of an artificial drainage system can be regulated through a \"drainage control factor\".<br>\nWhen no drainage system is present, installing drains with zero capacity offers the opportunity to obtain separate water and salt balances for an upper and lower part of the transition zone.<br>\nThe pumped wells are located in the aquifer. Their functioning is characterized by the well discharge.<br>\nThe drain and well water can be used for irrigation through a \"re-use factor\". This may affect the salt balance and the irrigation efficiency or sufficiency.\nThe salt balances are calculated for each reservoir separately. They are based on their water balances, using the \"salt concentrations\" of the incoming and outgoing water. Some concentrations must be given as input data, like the initial salt concentrations of the water in the different soil reservoirs, of the irrigation water and of the incoming ground water in the aquifer.\n\nThe concentrations are expressed in terms of electric conductivity (EC in dS/m). When the concentrations are known in terms of g salt/l water, the rule of thumb: 1 g/l -> 1.7 dS/m can be used. Usually, salt concentrations of the soil are expressed in ECe, the electric conductivity of an extract of a saturated soil paste (saturation extract). In Saltmod, the salt concentration is expressed as the EC of the soil moisture when saturated under field conditions. As a rule, one can use the conversion rate EC : ECe = 2 : 1.<br>\nSalt concentrations of outgoing water (either from one reservoir into the other or by subsurface drainage) are computed on the basis of salt balances, using different \"leaching or salt mixing efficiencies\" to be given with the input data. The effects of different leaching efficiencies can be simulated by varying their input value.\nIf drain or well water is used for irrigation, the method computes the salt concentration of the mixed irrigation water in the course of the time and the subsequent effect on the soil and ground water salinities, which again influences the salt concentration of the drain and well water. By varying the fraction of used drain or well water (to be given in the input data), the long-term effect of different fractions can be simulated.\nThe dissolution of solid soil minerals or the chemical precipitation of poorly soluble salts is not included in the computation method, but to some extent it can be accounted for through the input data, e.g. by increasing or decreasing the salt concentration of the irrigation water or of the incoming water in the aquifer.\n\nIf required, farmers' responses to water logging and soil salinity can be automatically accounted for. The method can gradually decrease:\nResponse (1) is different for ponded (submerged) rice (paddy) and \"dry foot\" crops.\nThe responses influence the water and salt balances, which, in their turn, slow down the process of water logging and salinization. Ultimately an equilibrium situation will be brought about.\nThe user can also introduce farmers' responses by manually changing the relevant input data. Perhaps it will be useful first to study the automatic farmers' responses and their effect and thereafter decide what the farmers' responses will be in the view of the user.\nThe responses influence the water and salt balances, which, in their turn, slow down the process of water logging and salinization. Ultimately an equilibrium situation will be brought about.\nThe user can also introduce farmers' responses by manually changing the relevant input data. Perhaps it will be useful first to study the automatic farmers' responses and their effect and thereafter decide what the farmers' responses will be in the view of the user.\n\nThe program may run with fixed input data for the number of years determined by the user. This option can be used to predict future developments based on long-term average input values, e.g. rainfall, as it will be difficult to assess the future values of the input data year by year.\nThe program also offers the possibility to follow historic records with annually changing input values (e.g. rainfall, irrigation, agricultural practices), the calculations must be made year by year. If this possibility is chosen, the program creates transfer files by which the final conditions of the previous year (e.g. water table and salinity) are automatically used as the initial conditions for the subsequent period. This facility makes it possible to use various generated rainfall sequences drawn randomly from a known rainfall probability distribution and obtain a stochastic prediction of the resulting output parameters.\nIf the computations are made with annual changes, not all input parameters can be changed, notably the thickness of the soil reservoirs and their total porosities as these would cause illogical shifts in the water and salt balances.\n\nThe output of Saltmod is given for each season of any year during any number of years, as specified with the input data. The output data comprise hydrological and salinity aspects.\n\nThe data are filed in the form of tables that can be inspected directly or further analyzed with spreadsheet programs.\n\nAs the soil salinity is very variable from place to place (figure left) SaltMod includes frequency distributions in the output. The figure was made with the CumFreq program .\nThe program offers the possibility to develop a multitude of relations between varied input data, resulting outputs and time.<br> \nHowever, as it is not possible to foresee all different uses that may be made, the program offers only a limited number of standard graphics.\nThe program is designed to make use of spreadsheet programs for the detailed output analysis, in which the relations between various input and output variables can be established according to the scenario developed by the user.\n\nAlthough the computations need many iterations, all the end results can be \"checked by hand\" using the equations presented in the manual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25780242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25780242", "title": "Self-evaluation motives", "text": "Self-evaluation motives\n\nSelf-evaluation is the process by which the self-concept is socially negotiated and modified. It is a scientific and cultural truism that self-evaluation is motivated. Motives influence the ways in which people select self-relevant information, gauge its veracity, draw inferences about themselves, and make plans for the future. Empirically-oriented psychologists have identified and investigated Three cardinal self-evaluation motives (or self-motives) relevant to the development, maintenance, and modification of self-views.\nThese are self-enhancement, self-assessment and self-verification.\n\nThe \"self-enhancement motive\" is the motive to improve the positivity of one's self-concept, and to protect the self from negative information (we search for positivity and avoid negativity). This motive influences people's self-evaluations.\n\nFor instance, people process information important to the self in a selective manner, focusing on information that has favourable implications to the self and discarding information with unfavourable implications. People also choose to compare themselves socially to others so as to be placed in a favourable position. By doing this, people seek to boost the (self-evaluated) positivity of themselves or to decrease its negativity, hence increasing their levels of self-esteem with the aim of having others see them as more socially desirable.\n\nThe \"self-assessment motive\" is based on the assumption that people want to have an accurate and objective evaluation of the self. To achieve this goal, they work so as to reduce any uncertainty about their abilities or personality traits. Feedback is sought to increase the accuracy and objectivity of previously formed self-conceptions. This is regardless of whether the new information confirms or challenges the previously existing self-conceptions.\n\nThe \"self-verification motive\" asserts that what motivates people to engage in the self-evaluation process is the desire to verify their pre-existing self-conceptions, maintaining consistency between their previously formed self-conceptions and any new information that could be important to the self (feedback) By doing this, people get the sense of control and predictability in the social world.\n\nThe \"self-enhancement motive\" states that people want to see themselves favourably. It follows that people should choose tasks with a positive valence, regardless of task diagnosticity (this motive is more active in presence of tasks high in diagnosticity of success than in presence of tasks high in diagnosticity of failure). Tasks that disclosure a failure and negative feedback are considered less important than tasks with an outcome of success or positive feedback. As a result, the former are processed faster and more thoroughly, and remembered better than the latter.\n\nEach motive originated a different type of reaction (cognitive, affective or behavioural). The self-enhancement motive creates both affective and cognitive responses. Affective responses result in negative feedback leading to less positive affect then positive affect. This is moderated by trait modifiability, in the sense that we can find the former event to be especially true for unmodifiable traits. On the other hand, cognitive responses lead to favourable feedback being judged as more accurate, but only in the case of modifiable traits.\n\nThe \"self-assessment motive\" postulates that people want to have an accurate view of their abilities and personality traits. Hence, when evaluating the self people tend to preferably choose tasks that are high in diagnosticity (people want to find out about their uncertain self-conceptions). This is found even when the diagnosis leads to a disclosure of failure (i.e., regardless of task valence).\n\nThe responses generated by the self-assessment motive are behavioural responses, which becomes evident by the fact that people choose to receive feedback on their performance (they prefer tasks for which feedback is available, opposed to tasks with unavailable feedback). This pattern is emphasized when the trait is considered to be modifiable.\n\nThe \"self-verification motive\" asserts that people want to verify their previously existing beliefs about the self. No preference regarding the task valence is apparent. Regarding task diagnosticity, people seek knowledge about their certain self-conceptions to a greater extent than they do for their uncertain self-conceptions.\n\nCognitive responses guide the self-verification motive partially depending on their previously formed self-concept. That is, when a certain trait is present, positive feedback regarding this trait is judged to be more accurate than unfavourable feedback; but when in the presence of the alternative trait, there isn’t any difference in the judgement of the feedback accuracy. However, this pattern is conditional on perceived trait modifiability.\n\nThe self-verification motive resulted in cognitive responses to traits considered to be unmodifiable, but not to traits considered modifiable. In the former, positive feedback is considered more accurate than negative feedback, when in the presence of the trait. On the other hand, negative feedback is viewed as more accurate than positive feedback in the presence of the alternative trait.\n"}
{"id": "43334696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43334696", "title": "Stock-Flow consistent model", "text": "Stock-Flow consistent model\n\nStock-Flow Consistent (SFC) models are a family of macroeconomic models based on a rigorous accounting framework, which guarantees a correct and comprehensive integration of all the flows and the stocks of an economy. These models were first developed in the mid-20th century but have recently become popular, particularly within the post-Keynesian school of thought.\n\nThe accounting framework behind stock flow consistent macroeconomic modelling can be traced back to Morris Copeland's development of flow of funds analysis back in 1949. Copeland wanted to understand where the money to finance increases in Gross National Product came from, and what happened to unspent money if GNP declined. He developed a set of tables to show the relationship between flows of income and expenditure and changes to the stocks of outstanding debt and financial assets held in the US economy.\n\nJames Tobin and his collaborators used features of stock flow consistent modelling including the social accounting matrix and discrete time to develop a macroeconomic model that integrated financial and non-financial variables. He outlined the following distinguishing features of his approach in his Nobel lecture \n\nThe current SFC models mainly emerged from the separate economic tradition of the Post Keynesians, Wynne Godley being the most famous contributor in this regard. Godley argued in favour of wider adoption of stock flow consistent methods, expressing the view that they would improve the transparency and logical coherence of most macro models\n\nCurrent researchers in the SFC approach to macroeconomic modelling are based in University of Limerick, Levy Economics Institute and University of Oxford.\n\nSFC models usually consist of two main components: an accounting part and a set of equations describing the laws of motion of the system. The consistency of the accounting is ensured by the use of three matrices: i) the aggregate balance sheets, with all the initial stocks, ii) the transaction flow, recording all the transactions taking places in the economy (e.g. consumption, interests payments); iii) the stock revaluation matrix, showing the changes in the stocks resulting from the transactions (the transaction flow and the stock revaluation matrix are often merged in the full integration matrix). \nThe matrices are built respecting intuitive principles. Someone’s asset is someone else’s liability and someone’s inflow is someone else’s outflows. Furthermore, each sector and the economy as a whole must respect their budget constraint. No fund can come from (or end up) nowhere.\n\nThe second component of SFC models, the behavioural equations, include the main theoretical assumption of the model. Most of the papers in the existing literature are based on post-Keynesian theory. However, the behavioural equations are not restricted to a single school of thought.\n\nThe comprehensive accounting framework has several advantages. Tracking all the monetary flows taking place in an economy and the way they accumulate, allows for a consistent integration of the real and the financial side of the economy (for a detailed discussion see Godley and Lavoie, 2007). Furthermore, as balance sheets are updated in any period, SFC models can be used to identify unsustainable processes, for example a prolonged deficit of a sector will result in an unsustainable stock of debt. These models were used by Wynne Godley in forecasting, showing promising results. Moreover from a modelling perspective, the consistent accounting framework prevents the modellers from leaving \"black holes\" i.e., unexplained parts of the model.\n\nThe SFC are usually aggregated macroeconomic models and as such they incur all the disadvantages typical of this approach. For example, they explain little of what happens at microeconomic level. Furthermore, they often rely heavily on parameter values used by the modellers. A possible way to overcome these drawbacks is to combine these models with an agent-based model (ABM). A recent 'benchmark' model was developed by Alessandro Caiani and colleagues.\n\nThe above table shows the flow of funds between different sectors for a closed economy with no explicit financial sector. The minus (-) sign in the table represents that the sector has paid out while the plus (+) sign indicates the receipts of that sector, e.g, -C for the household sector shows that the household has paid for their consumption whereas the counter party of this transaction is the firm which receives +C. This implies that the firms have received the payments from the households. Similarly, all the respective flows in the economy are reported in the flow of funds. More advanced SFC models consist of a financial sector including banks and is further extended to an open economy by introducing the Rest of World sector. Introducing the financial sector enables in tracing the flow of loans between the sectors, which in turn helps in determining the level of debt every sector holds. These models become more complicated as new sectors and assets are added to the system.\n\nOnce the accounting framework is fulfilled then the structure of the model, based on stylized facts, is defined. The set of equations in the model defines relationship between different variables, not determined by the accounting framework. The model structure basically helps in understanding how the flows are connected from a behavioral perspective or in simple words how the behavior of a sector affects the flow of funds in the system, e.g., the factors that affect the consumption (C) of the household is not clear from the flow of funds but can be explained by the model. The model structure with a set of equations for a simple closed economy is given by:\n\n\"Y = C + G\"\n\n\"T = θY\"\n\n\"YD = Y - T\"\n\n\"C = α Y + α H\"\n\n\"ΔH = G - T\"\n\n\"ΔH = YD - C\"\n\n\"H = ΔH + H\"\n\nY (Income), C (Consumption), G (Government Expenditures), T (Taxes), YD (Disposable Income), ΔH (Changes in stock of money) and θ is the tax rate on the income of household sector.\nα is the household consumption out of disposable income.\nα is the household consumption out of previous wealth.\n\nThe SFC models are solved in different ways depending on the aspect of research but in general initial values are assigned to the stocks and then the model is calibrated or estimated.\n\n"}
{"id": "934155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934155", "title": "Supranational union", "text": "Supranational union\n\nA supranational union is a type of multinational political union where negotiated power is delegated to an authority by governments of member states.\n\nThe term is sometimes used to describe the European Union (EU) as a new type of political entity. It is the only entity that provides for international popular elections, going beyond the level of political integration normally afforded by international treaties. \n\nThe term \"supranational\" is sometimes used in a loose, undefined sense in other contexts such as a substitute for international, transnational or global.\n\nAnother method of decision-making in international organisations is intergovernmentalism in which state governments play a more prominent role.\n\nAfter the dropping of atomic bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in August 1945, Albert Einstein spoke and wrote frequently in the late 1940s in favor of a \"supranational\" organization to control all military forces except for local police forces, including nuclear weapons. He thought this might begin with the United States, Great Britain, and the Soviet Union, and grow to encompass most other nations, presenting this as the only way to avoid nuclear war. He broached the idea in the November 1945 and November 1947 articles in \"The Atlantic Monthly\" that described how the constitution of such an organization might be written. In an April 1948 address at Carnegie Hall, he reiterated: \"There is only \"one\" path to peace and security: the path of supranational organization.\" Thanks to his celebrity, Einstein's ideas on the subject generated much discussion and controversy, but the proposal did not generate much support in the West and the Soviet Union viewed it with hostility.\nWith its founding Statute of 1949 and its Convention of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which came into force in 1953, the Council of Europe created a system based on human rights and the rule of law. Robert Schuman, French Foreign minister, initiated the debate on supranational democracy in his speeches at the United Nations, at the signing of the Council's Statutes and at a series of other speeches across Europe and North America.\n\nThe term \"supranational\" occurs in an international treaty for the first time (twice) in the Treaty of Paris, 18 April 1951. This new legal term defined the Community method in creating the European Coal and Steel Community and the beginning of the democratic re-organisation of Europe. It defines the relationship between the High Authority or European Commission and the other four institutions. In the treaty, it relates to a new democratic and legal concept.\n\nThe Founding Fathers of the European Community and the present European Union said that supranationalism was the cornerstone of the governmental system. This is enshrined in the \"Europe Declaration\" made on 18 April 1951, the same day as the European Founding Fathers signed the Treaty of Paris.\n\n\"By the signature of this Treaty, the participating Parties give proof of their determination to create the first supranational institution and that thus they are laying the true foundation of an organised Europe. This Europe remains open to all nations. We profoundly hope that other nations will join us in our common endeavour.\"\n\nThis declaration of principles that included their judgement for the necessary future developments was signed by Konrad Adenauer (West Germany), Paul van Zeeland and Joseph Meurice (Belgium), Robert Schuman (France), Count Sforza (Italy), Joseph Bech (Luxembourg), and Dirk Stikker and Jan van den Brink (The Netherlands). It was made to recall future generations to their historic duty of uniting Europe based on liberty and democracy under the rule of law. Thus, they viewed the creation of a wider and deeper Europe as intimately bound to the healthy development of the supranational or Community system.\n\nThis Europe was open to all nations who were free to decide, a reference/or an invitation and encouragement of liberty to the Iron Curtain countries. The term supranational does not occur in succeeding treaties, such as the Treaties of Rome, the Maastricht Treaty, the Treaty of Nice or the Constitutional Treaty or the very similar Treaty of Lisbon.\n\nA supranational union is a supranational polity which lies somewhere between a confederation that is an association of States and a federation that is a state. The European Economic Community was described by its founder Robert Schuman as midway between confederalism which recognises the complete independence of States in an association and federalism which seeks to fuse them in a super-state. The EU has supranational competences, but it possesses these competences only to the extent that they are conferred on it by its member states (\"Kompetenz-Kompetenz\"). Within the scope of these competences, the union exercises its powers in a sovereign manner, having its own legislative, executive, and judicial authorities. The supranational Community also has a chamber for organised civil society including economic and social associations and regional bodies.\n\nUnlike states in a federal super-state, member states retain ultimate sovereignty, although some sovereignty is shared with, or ceded to, the supranational body. Supranational agreements encourage stability and trust, because governments cannot break international accords at a whim. The supranational action may be time-limited. This was the case with the European Coal and Steel Community, which was agreed for 50 years with the possibility of renewal. Supranational accords may be permanent, such as an agreement to outlaw war between the partners. Full sovereignty can be reclaimed by withdrawing from the supranational arrangements but the member state may also lose existing advantages offered by unrestricted access to participating states, such as economies of scale.\n\nA supranational union, because it is an agreement between sovereign states, is based on international treaties. The European treaties in general are different from classical treaties as they are constitutionalizing treaties, that is, they provide the basis for a European level of governance and rule of law. These treaties are similar to the British constitution, in that they are not necessarily a single document. They are based on treaties between its member governments but normally have to undergo closer scrutiny than other treaties because they are more far-ranging, affecting many areas of citizens' lives and livelihoods.\n\nDecision-making is partly intergovernmental and partly supranational within the Community areas. The latter provides a higher degree of institutional scrutiny both via the Parliament and through the Consultative Committees. Intergovernmentalism provides for less democratic oversight, especially where the institution such as the Council of Ministers or the European Council takes place behind closed doors, rather than in a parliamentary chamber.\n\nA supranational authority may have some independence from member state governments in specific areas, although not as much independence as with a federal government. Supranational institutions, like federal governments, imply the possibility of pursuing agendas in ways that the delegating states did not initially envision. Democratic supranational Communities, however, are defined by treaty and by law.\n\nThe union has legal supremacy over its member states only to the extent that its member state governments have conferred competences on the union. It is up to the individual governments to assure that they have full democratic backing in each of the member states. The citizens of the member states, though retaining their nationality and national citizenship, additionally become citizens of the union, as is the case with the European Union\n\nThe European Union, the only clear example of a supranational union, has a parliament with legislative oversight, elected by its citizens.\nTo this extent, a supranational union like the European Union has characteristics that are not entirely dissimilar to the characteristics of a federal state like the United States of America. However, the differences in scale become apparent if one compares the United States federal budget with the budget of the European Union (which amounts only to about one percent of combined GDP) or the size of the federal civil service of the United States with the Civil Service of the European Union.\n\nBecause decisions in some EU structures are taken by majority votes, it is possible for a member state to be obliged by the other members to implement a decision. The states retain the competence for adding this additional supranational competence.\n\nHistorically the concept was introduced and made a concrete reality by Robert Schuman when the French Government agreed to the principle in the Schuman Declaration and accepted the Schuman Plan confined to specific sectors of vital interest of peace and war. Thus commenced the European Community system beginning with the European Coal and Steel Community. The six founder States (France, Italy, Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg) agreed on the goal: making \"war not only unthinkable but materially impossible\". They agreed about the means: putting the vital interests, namely coal and steel production, under a common High Authority, subject to common democratic and legal institutions. They agreed on the European rule of law and a new democratic procedure.\n\nThe five institutions (besides the High Authority) were a Consultative Committee (a chamber representing civil society interests of enterprises, workers and consumers), a parliament, and a Council of government ministers. A Court of Justice would decide disputes coming from governments, public or private enterprises, consumer groups, any other group interests or even an individual. A complaint could be lodged in a local tribunal or national courts, where appropriate. Member states have yet to fulfil and develop the articles in the Paris and Rome treaties for full democracy in the European Parliament and other institutions such as the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of Regions.\n\nSchuman described supranational unions as a new stage in human development. It contrasted with destructive nationalisms of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries that began in a glorious patriotism and ended in wars. He traced the beginning concept of supranationality back to the nineteenth century, such as the Postal Union, and the term supranational is used around the time of the First World War. Democracy, which he defined as \"in the service of the people and acting in agreement with it\", was a fundamental part of a supranational community. However, governments only began to hold direct elections to the European Parliament in 1979, and then not according to the treaties. A single electoral statute was specified in the treaty for Europe's first community of coal and steel in 1951. Civil society (largely non-political) was to have its own elected chamber in the Consultative Committees specific to each Community as democratically agreed, but the process was frozen (as were Europe's parliamentary elections) by Charles de Gaulle and other politicians who opposed the Community method.\n\nToday supranationalism only exists in the two European Communities inside the EU: the Economic Community (often called the European Community although it does not legally cover all State activities) and Euratom (the European Atomic Energy Community, a non-proliferation community, in which certain potentialities have been frozen or blocked). Supranational Communities provide powerful but generally unexploited and innovatory means for democratic foreign policy, by mobilising civil society to the democratically agreed goals of the Community.\n\nThe first Community of Coal and Steel was agreed only for fifty years. Opposition, mainly by enterprises which had to pay a small European tax of less than 1% and government ministers in the Council, led to its democratic mandate not being renewed. Its jurisprudence and heritage remains part of the European Community system.\n\nDe Gaulle attempted to turn the European Commission into a political secretariat under his control in the Fouchet Plan but this move was thwarted by such democrats in the Benelux countries as Paul-Henri Spaak, Joseph Luns and Joseph Bech as well as a large wave of other pro-Europeans in all the Community countries.\n\nThe supranational Community method came under attack, not only from de Gaulle but also from other nationalists and Communists. In the post-de Gaulle period, rather than holding pan-European elections under a single statute as specified in all the treaties, governments held and continue to hold separate national elections for the European Parliament. These often favour the major parties and discriminate against smaller, regional parties. Rather than granting elections to organised civil society in the consultative committees, governments created a three-pillar system under the Amsterdam Treaty and Maastricht Treaty, mixing intergovernmental and supranational systems. Two pillars governing External policy and Justice and Home affairs are not subject to the same democratic controls as the Community system.\n\nIn the Lisbon Treaty and the earlier nearly identical Constitutional Treaty, the democratic independence of the five key institutions is further blurred. This moves the project from full democratic supranationalism in the direction of not just intergovernmentalism but the politicisation of the institutions, and control by two or three major party political organisations. The Commission defines key legal aspects of the supranational system because its members must be independent of commercial, labour, consumer, political or lobby interests (Article 9 of the Paris Treaty). The Commission was to be composed of a small number of experienced personalities, whose impartiality was beyond question. As such, the early presidents of the Commission and the High Authority were strong defenders of European democracy against national, autocratic practice or the rule of the strong over the weak.\n\nThe idea in the Constitutional and Lisbon Treaties is to run the European Commission as a political office. Governments would prefer to have a \"national\" member in the Commission, although this is against the principle of supranational democracy. (The original concept was that the Commission should act as a single impartial college of independent, experienced personalities having public confidence. One of the Communities was defined in the treaty with a Commission with fewer members than the number of its member states.) Thus, the members of the Commission are becoming predominantly party-political, and composed of sometimes rejected, disgraced or unwanted national politicians.\n\nThe first president of the High Authority was Jean Monnet, who never joined a political party, as was the case with most of the other members of the Commissions. They came from diverse liberal professions, having made recognised European contributions.\n\nGovernments also wish to retain the secrecy of their deliberations in the Council of Ministers or the European Council, which discusses matters of the most vital interest to European citizens. While some institutions such as the European Parliament have their debates open to the public, others such as the Council of Ministers and numerous committees are not. Schuman wrote in his book, \"Pour l'Europe\" (\"For Europe\"), that in a democratic supranational Community \"the Councils, committees and other organs should be placed under the control of public opinion that was effectual without paralysing their activity nor useful initiatives\".\n\nJoseph H. H. Weiler, in his seminal work \"The Dual Character of Supranationalism\", states that there are two main facets to European supranationalism, although these seem to be true of many supranational systems. These are:\n\nIn many ways, the split sees the separation of powers confined to merely two branches.\n\nIn the Lisbon Treaty, the distribution of competences in various policy areas between member states and the European Union is redistributed in three categories. In 19th century U.S., it had exclusive competences only. Competences not explicitly listed belong to lower levels of governance.\n\nIn a supranational union, the problem of how to reconcile the principle of equality among nation states, which applies to international (intergovernmental) organisations, and the principle of equality among citizens, which applies within nation states is resolved by taking a sectoral approach. This allows an innovatory, democratic broadening the number of actors to be included. These are present not only in the classical Parliament which has slightly different functions but also in the Consultative Committees such as the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions which the treaties give powers equivalent to parliaments in their own areas but which are at present still developing their potential. In the European Union, the Lisbon Treaty mixes two principles (classical parliamentary government with a politically elected government) and a supranational community with a totally independent European Commission. Governments are also trying to treat the Lisbon Treaty as a simple classical treaty, or even an amendment to one, which does not require citizens' support or democratic approval. The proposed Lisbon Treaty and the earlier Constitutional draft still retain in the European Union elements of a supranational union, as distinct from a federal state on the lines of the United States of America. But this is at the expense of the democratic potentialities of a full supranational union as conceived in the first Community.\n\nThe only union generally recognised as having achieved the status of a supranational union is the European Union.\n\nThere are a number of other regional organisations that, while not supranational unions, have adopted or intend to adopt policies that may lead to a similar sort of integration in some respects.\n\nOther organisations that have also discussed greater integration include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41427201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41427201", "title": "Swill", "text": "Swill\n\nSwill is food for animals in liquid or partly liquid form.\n\nThe term can also be used as an extremely derogatory label for any drink meant for human ingestion perceived as unpalatable or nearly so. \n\nPig swill, hog swill, hogwash is kitchen refuse used to feed pigs.\n\nHistorically pig farmers arranged collection of swill, e.g. by means of swill bins. The grease was skimmed off the swill tanks and sold for further processing, while the remaining swill was processed into pig food.\n\nDuring World War II collection of pig swill was a nationwide campaign in Great Britain.\n\nDuring the 2001 United Kingdom foot-and-mouth outbreak it was thought that unprocessed pig swill was a key link in the chain of the infection, and it was banned in Great Britain. In 2003 the ban was expanded to the whole European Union.\n\nThere is now significant research and support from farmers for a return to feeding swill to pigs, not only as a way to reduce pig feed costs but also to reduce demands on agricultural land for pig feed.\n\n"}
{"id": "23083720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23083720", "title": "The Evolution of God", "text": "The Evolution of God\n\nThe Evolution of God is a 2009 book by Robert Wright, in which the author explores the history of the concept of God in the three Abrahamic religions through a variety of means, including archeology, history, theology, and evolutionary psychology. The patterns which link Judaism, Christianity, and Islam and the ways in which they have changed their concepts over time are explored as one of the central themes.\n\nOne of the conclusions of the book that Wright tries to make is a reconciliation between science and religion. He also speculates on the future of the concept of God.\n\nAmong other things, Wright discusses the role of evolutionary biology in the development of religion. Geneticist Dean Hamer hypothesized that some people have a specific gene that makes them prone to religious belief, which he calls the God gene, and that over time natural selection has favored these people because their spirituality leads to optimism. Wright, however, thinks the tendency towards religious belief is not an adaptive trait influenced by natural selection, but rather a spandrel - a trait that happens to be supported by adaptations originally selected for other purposes. Wright states that the human brain approaches religious belief based on how it adapted to survive and reproduce in early hunter-gatherer societies.\n\nHe points out four key traits of religion that align with the human brain's survival adaptations:\nHumans have adapted to pay attention to surprising and confusing information, because it could make the difference between life and death. (For instance, if a person left the campsite and mysteriously never returned, it would be wise for the others to be on guard for a predator or some other danger.) Understanding and controlling cause and effect also takes top priority in the human brain, since humans live in complex social groups where predicting and influencing the actions and thoughts of others gains them allies, status, and access to resources. As human cognitive abilities and curiosity expanded over the centuries, their investigation of cause and effect expanded from the strictly social context out into the world at large, opening the doors for religions to explain things like weather and disease.\n\nThough some of these explanations were strange and perhaps dubious, the fact that they could not be completely disproven lent them credibility; it was better to be cautious than dead. Wright uses an example from the Haida people, indigenous to the northwest coast of North America, who would try to appease killer whale deities to calm storms out at sea; they would pour fresh water into the ocean or tie tobacco or deer tallow to the end of a paddle. While some people certainly died despite these offerings, those who survived were a testament to the ritual's possible efficacy.\n\nMysterious and unproven beliefs can also persist in a culture because human brains have adapted to agree with the group consensus even if it goes against one's better judgment or personal beliefs, since a person alienated from the group loses protection, food, and mates. Wright cites the Asch conformity experiments and even posits that Stockholm syndrome is not so much a syndrome as a natural product of evolution, the brain's way of ensuring that a person accepts and is accepted by his or her new social group. In addition, beliefs can persist because once a person publicly announces a belief, social psychologists have found that he or she is inclined to focus on evidence supporting that belief while conveniently ignoring evidence contradicting it, a logical fallacy known as cherry picking.\n\nJournalist and political commentator Andrew Sullivan gave the book a positive review in \"The Atlantic\", saying that the book \"...gave me hope that we can avoid both the barrenness of a world without God and the horrible fusion of fundamentalism and weapons of mass destruction.\" \n\n\"Newsweek\" religion editor, Lisa Miller, described \"The Evolution of God\" as a reframing of the faith vs. reason debate. Drawing a contrast to such authors as Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, Miller gives an overall positive review of the book's approach to the examination of the concept of God.\n\nIn a review for \"The New York Times\", Yale professor of psychology Paul Bloom said, \"In his brilliant new book, “The Evolution of God,” Robert Wright tells the story of how God grew up.\" Bloom sums up Wright's controversial stance as, \"Wright’s tone is reasoned and careful, even hesitant, throughout, and it is nice to read about issues like the morality of Christ and the meaning of jihad without getting the feeling that you are being shouted at. His views, though, are provocative and controversial. There is something here to annoy almost everyone.\"\n\nHowever, in a \"New York Times\" review that included a reply from Wright, Nicholas Wade, a writer for the \"Science Times\" section, notes the book is \"a disappointment from the Darwinian perspective\", because evolution \"provides a simpler explanation for moral progression than the deity Wright half invokes.\" Wright replied to Wade's comments, saying Wade had misunderstood Wright's argument and that \"The deity (if there is one–and I’m agnostic on that point) would be realizing moral progress through evolution’s creation of the human moral sense (and through the subsequent development of that moral sense via cultural evolution, particularly technological evolution).\" Wade replied that \"evolution seems to me a sufficient explanation for the moral progress that Mr. Wright correctly discerns in the human condition, so there seemed no compelling need to invoke a deity.\"\n\nTo promote the book, Wright did a variety of interviews, including with the \"New York Times\", \"Publishers Weekly\", and \"Bill Moyers Journal\".\nHe also did a series of videos on Bloggingheads.tv, a website he co-founded with Mickey Kaus. Wright also appeared on \"The Colbert Report\" on August 18, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19498192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19498192", "title": "Twentysix Gasoline Stations", "text": "Twentysix Gasoline Stations\n\nTwentysix Gasoline Stations is the first artist's book by the American pop artist Ed Ruscha. Published in April 1963 on his own imprint National Excelsior Press, it is often considered to be the first modern artist's book, and has become famous as a precursor and a major influence on the emerging artist's book culture, especially in America. The book delivers exactly what its title promises, reproducing 26 photographs of gasoline stations next to captions indicating their brand and location. From the first service station, 'Bob's Service' in Los Angeles where Ruscha lived, the book follows a journey back to Oklahoma City where he had grown up and where his mother still lived. The last image is of a Fina gasoline station in Groom, Texas, which Ruscha has suggested should be seen as the beginning of the return journey, 'like a coda'.\n\nOriginally printed in a numbered edition of 400, a second edition of 500 was published in 1967 and a third of 3000 in 1969. Neither of these later editions was numbered. It has been suggested that these reprints were a deliberate attempt to flood the market in order to maintain the book's status as a cheap, mass-produced commodity. The book originally sold for $3.50. Of the work, Johanna Drucker said:\n\nRuscha's books combined the literalness of early California pop art with a flat-footed photographic aesthetic informed by minimalist notions of repetitive sequence and seriality...Thirty years later, with a quarter of a century of mainstream artworld activity between, the aspect of shock-effect and humor has diminished somewhat. But in 1962 (sic) this work read against the photographic landscape of highly aestheticized image-making.\n\nRuscha would drive home to visit his parents in Oklahoma four or five times a year after leaving home at 18; many of the journeys were taken with his friend and fellow artist Joe Goode. Ruscha has said:\n\nI wasn't coming out here [California] to do anything in particular, or to be anything in particular except...except out of Oklahoma...a long way from Oklahoma, that's what I wanted to be, and everything it stood for. And away from the catholic church too, and Sister Daniella who beat my knuckles with a pencil the one year I was in parochial school.\n\nRuscha had visited Europe in 1961, and been particularly taken by the books he saw for sale \"on the street, in those little bookstalls,\" and been impressed by the \"non-commercial look... a strange kind of sober design including the typography and the binding and everything.\" Back in Los Angeles, he conceived the idea initially as a play on words, deciding upon the title first, then working on the typography and design before taking the photographs. He took about 60 photographs, and edited them down to 26 by removing any that he felt were too interesting.\n\nDated 1962 in the foreword and dedicated to Patty Callahan, the book comprises twenty-six photographs of various dimensions and proportions; most are laid out on a single page with the text facing the image; some go across the double spread, a few are placed next to each other. Three images are taken at night, including one of Tucumcari, New Mexico, that appears to have been taken from a moving car. But for three people walking across the forecourt on the Sunset Strip, a man getting out of his car at Flagstaff, Arizona and a man looking under his hood at Lipton, Arizona, there are no people present. There are no cars visible in some of the photographs and almost all are taken from the other side of the highway.\n\nAll of the gasoline stations are on Route 66, a road that had already been mythologized by the TV series \"Route 66\" and in Steinbeck's \"The Grapes of Wrath\", and later reappeared as a motif in Dennis Hopper's \"Easy Rider\". The order that the stations appear is almost the same as their position on the route west-east, with five stations moved out of order. With the exception of the last station in Groom, Texas, the relevant states listed are all in order.\n\nThe first edition was numbered and occasionally signed, which Ruscha later admitted was a \"mistake\". Apart from this detail, the books are defined by their \"professional polish, a clear-cut machine finish.\" Ruscha has said:\n\nI have eliminated all text from my books- I want absolutely neutral material. My pictures are not that interesting, nor the subject matter. They are simply a collection of 'facts', my book is more like a collection of readymades...It is almost worth the money to have the thrill of 400 exactly identical books stacked in front of you.\n\nLater, in an interview in the \"National Observer\", Ruscha declared \"I want to be the Henry Ford of book making.\"\n\nThe book is printed in black offset on white paper. It measures 17.9 x 14 x 0.5 cm (closed). It has 26 photographs on 48 pages. The title appears in red lettering on the cover and spine. First edition: 400 numbered copies; second edition, 1967: 500 copies, third edition, 1969: 3000 copies.\n\nThe book is covered with a semi-transparent glassine dust jacket for protection. About fifty copies of the first edition came in a black cardboard slipcase. Apart from this, the numbering on the last page of the first edition and the details of each edition at the beginning of the book, the three are indistinguishable.\n\nA lot of critics have assigned a religious sub-text to the work, seeing a correlation between the gasoline stations and the 14 Stations of the Cross, traditionally the staging posts between Pilate's condemnation and the burial of Christ after his crucifixion on Calvary. Ruscha, a lapsed catholic, has gone some way to supporting this view in interviews:\n\nThere is a connection between my work and my experience with religious icons, and the stations of the cross and the Church generally, but it's in one of method, you know; I do have some flavors that come over, like the incense... we all go through stages... the attitude comes out of a whole style of living and then coming up with statements.\n\nThe book has also been cited as an artist's book equivalent of a road movie, and as a pop version of Walker Evans' photographs of America, such as his deserted gasoline station in 'Highway Corner Reedsville West Virginia, 1935'. Although Ruscha has admitted knowledge of Evans' work, he has dismissed it as an influence. The last image, of a Fina station, has been interpreted as a Duchampian pun on \"Fin\" (end).\n\nOriginally, the book was received poorly; despite being published the same year as Ruscha's first exhibition at the Ferus Gallery, Los Angeles-which also represented Andy Warhol- the book was rejected by the Library of Congress for its 'unorthodox form and supposed lack of information'. The book gradually acquired cult status through the 1960s, and by the 1980s was often hailed as the first modern artist's book although in fact Dieter Roth's artist's books share the same mass-produced aesthetic and investigate the nature of books with at least as much formal vigour, and predate Ruscha's first publication by seven years. Additionally, Warja Lavater's first book, \"William Tell\" (New York: Junior Council, Museum of Modern Art, 1962 (OCLC ), an accordion folded book written using symbols only, preceded Ruscha's \"Twentysix Gasoline Stations\".\n\nCopies of the book are kept in public collections across the world, including MOMA, V&A, Tate, and the National Gallery of Australia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1625778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1625778", "title": "Value pluralism", "text": "Value pluralism\n\nIn ethics, value pluralism (also known as ethical pluralism or moral pluralism) is the idea that there are several values which may be equally correct and fundamental, and yet in conflict with each other. In addition, value-pluralism postulates that in many cases, such incompatible values may be incommensurable, in the sense that there is no objective ordering of them in terms of importance. Value pluralism is opposed to \"value monism\".\n\nValue-pluralism is a theory in metaethics, rather than a theory of normative ethics, or a set of values in itself. Oxford philosopher and historian of ideas Isaiah Berlin is credited with being the first to popularize a substantial work describing the theory of objective value-pluralism, bringing it to the attention of academia (cf. the Isaiah Berlin Virtual Library). The related idea that fundamental values can and, in some cases, do conflict with each other is prominent in the thought of Max Weber, captured in his notion of \"polytheism\".\n\nValue-pluralism is an alternative to both moral relativism and moral absolutism (which Berlin called \"monism\"). An example of value-pluralism is the idea that the moral life of a nun is incompatible with that of a mother, yet there is no purely rational measure of which is preferable. Hence, moral decisions often require radical preferences with no rational calculus to determine which alternative is to be selected.\n\nValue-pluralism differs from value-relativism in that pluralism accepts limits to differences, such as when vital human needs are violated.\n\nIf values can be compared with virtues or duties then reference might also be made to the arguments of classical philosophy. Kant, for example, referred to \"a conflict of duties\" and the subject can be traced back to Plato's \"Statesman\" where he wrote that although the aim may be \"to promote not a part of virtue but the whole\", it is often the case that the different parts of virtue \"may be at war with one another\".\n\nIsaiah Berlin suggested that James Fitzjames Stephen, rather than himself, deserved credit for fathering value-pluralism. Stephen had observed: \"There are innumerable differences which obviously add to the interest of life, and without which it would be unendurably dull. Again, there are differences which can neither be left unsettled nor be settled without a struggle, and a real one, but in regard to which the struggle is rather between inconsistent forms of good than between good and evil. In cases of this sort no one need see an occasion for anything more than a good-tempered trial of strength and skill, except those narrow-minded fanatics whose minds are incapable of taking in more than one idea at a time, or of having a taste for more things than one, which one thing is generally a trifle. There is no surer mark of a poor, contemptible, cowardly character than the inability to conduct disputes of this sort with fairness, temper, humanity, goodwill to antagonists, and a determination to accept a fair defeat in good part and to make the best of it.\"\n\nWilliam James, influenced by Fitzjames Stephen, endorsed value-pluralism in an essay on \"The Moral Philosopher and the Moral Life\", which he first delivered as a lecture in 1891. He wrote that none \"of the measures [of goodness] that have been actually proposed has, however, given general satisfaction ... The various ideals have no common character apart from the fact that they are ideals. No single abstract principle can be so used as to yield to the philosopher anything like a scientifically accurate and genuinely useful casuistic scale.\"\n\nJoseph Raz and many others have done further work clarifying and defending value-pluralism. For instance, political philosopher William Galston, former policy advisor to President Bill Clinton, has defended a Berlinian approach to value pluralism in books like \"Liberal Pluralism.\"\n\nSocial psychologist Philip E. Tetlock, studies and identifies with value pluralism.\n\nThe philosopher Charles Blattberg, who was Berlin's student, has advanced an important critique of Berlin's value-pluralism. Blattberg focuses on value-pluralism's applications to Marx, the Russian intelligentsia, Judaism, and Berlin's early political thought, as well as Berlin's conceptions of liberty, the Enlightenment versus the Counter-Enlightenment, and history.\n\nAnother notable critic of value-pluralism in recent times is Ronald Dworkin, the second most-cited American legal scholar, who attempts to forge a liberal theory of equality from a monist starting-point, citing the failure of value-pluralism to adequately address the \"Equality of what?\" debate.\n\nAlan Brown suggests that Berlin ignores the fact that values are indeed commensurable as they can be compared by their varying contributions towards the human good. Regarding the ends of freedom, equality, efficiency, creativity, etc., Brown maintains that none of these are ends in themselves but are valued for their consequences. Brown concludes that Berlin has failed to show that the problem of conflicting values is insoluble in principle. The deliberative democrat Robert Talisse has published several articles criticizing the pluralism of Isaiah Berlin, William Galston, Richard Flathman, and John Gray, alleging informal logic and internal epistemological contradictions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57381226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57381226", "title": "Violence against women in the United States", "text": "Violence against women in the United States\n\nViolence against women in the United States is the use of domestic abuse, murder, sex-trafficking, rape and assault against women in the United States. It has been recognized as a public health concern. Culture in the United States has led towards the trivialization of violence towards women, with media in the United States possibly contributing to making women-directed violence appear unimportant to the public.\n\nThe history of laws and cultural taboos have a current effect on how new sexual assault laws are drafted, how the laws are applied by law enforcement and how police decide whether to arrest a suspected perpetrator. The history of sexual assault prosecutions influences whether or not current cases are taken to court. Judges and juries make decisions to convict based upon their past knowledge on the topic of sexual assault.\n\nThe imagery of women being sexually victimized in advertisements, pornography, films and music videos has been shown to increase support for violence toward women.\n\nIn a study published in 2008, it was found that in nearly 2,000 print advertisements of 58 magazines popular in the United States, 50% of ads depicted women as sex objects, appearing as a victim in about 10% of advertisements. The main magazines featuring sexual objectification of women were of the fashion and adolescent topics. These advertisements often portrayed women in various positions and expressions that were derived from pornography. The study also stated that women in the United States feel that rape is \"trivialized in American culture\" and concluded that \"media imagery that presents women as both sex object and as victims\" has possibly contributed to this trivialization.\n\nA 2016 study regarding the objectification of women in the media found that men's magazines, reality television and pornography brought upon more thoughts of objectification, which in turn led to more support of violence toward women. In the study's results, it is stated \"the relationship between objectifying media exposure and attitudes supportive of violence against women was fully mediated by notions of women as sex objects\".\n\nViolence against women can lead to immediate physical injuries and longer-term mental and physical health conditions. In addition to negatively impacting mental and physical health, violence against women can interfere with life at work, home, and school. In some cases, violence results in death.\n\nChildren exposed to violence are also at risk for developing mental and physical health problems. Depending on their age, children may react differently to exposure.\n\nAccording to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the National Institute of Justice, about 1 in every 4 women suffer from at least one physical assault experience from a partner during adulthood. A 2007 report found that in about 64% of female homicides were perpetrated by a partner or family member. Intimate partner abuse may also include other types behavior considered abusive. These are instances in which one partner seeks to control finances, force isolation from friends and family and dominate the relationship.\n\nWomen who have been identified as being at a higher risk for domestic and sexual abuse are older women, those living in rural communities, disabled women and immigrants. Addressing and preventing such violence may be difficult because some women do not have nearby access to victim services. A women may also have language barriers, economic and psychological dependence on the perpetrator.\n\nIn some instances of violence, a woman and her children may not be able to procure housing apart from the perpetrator. Between 22-57% and of these women become homeless. Due to housing regulations that practice a 'no tolerance' policy requiring eviction of all household members when even one person is convicted of any crime, battered women can then be homeless as a result. This practice essentially creates a disincentive for reporting violence in the home. Some women who have experienced violence in the home risk the loss of their jobs related to their need for medical treatment, counselling, finding new housing and legal protection.\n\nThe percentage of women who have been raped in the United States is between 15% and 20%, with various studies disagreeing with each other. (\"National Violence Against Women\" survey in 1995, 17.6% rate; a 2007 Department of Justice study on rape found 18% rate). About 500 women were raped per day in the United States in 2008. About 21.8% of rapes of female victims in the United States are gang rapes. \n\nA March 2013 report from the United States Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Statistics, from 1995 to 2010, the estimated annual rate of female rape or sexual assault had declined by 58%, from 5.0 victimizations per 1,000 females age 12 or older to 2.1 per 1,000. However, a study in 2013 regarding rape in the United States found that cases remain underreported. Law enforcement in the United States also manipulates rape statistics to \"create the illusion of success in fighting violent crime\" according to a 2014 study. When investigated, defendants are rarely convicted.\n\nSexual assault differs significantly from other crimes of assault. For sexual assault, the severity of the crime has been determined by establishing the victim's moral character, behavior, signs of resistance and verbal expressions of non-consensual participation. The crime of battery, another type of assault, is determined by the perpetrators actions and intent. The victim's response to this type of assault does not determine whether a crime has taken place or not. The victim does not have to demonstrate that they resisted, gave consent or have a history of being punched. In addition, the question of assault occurring after consent is given complicates the understanding of violence and injury - even if sex is consensual. Changes in the laws regarding some sexual acts may \"lead to the glorification of sexual violence\".\n\nA 2015 study by the University of Nebraska found that college women in the United States who were victims of sexual violence or partner violence began to self-objectificate themselves and felt body shame.\n\nForced sterilization is recognized as a type of gender-based violence. In the United States, Native American, Mexican American, African American and Puerto Rican-American women were coerced into sterilization programs, with Native Americans and African Americans especially being targeted. Many of these projects were a result of racism and eugenics in the United States. In total, 31 of 50 states had official eugenics programs with tens of thousands of women being sterilized.\n\nSince the days of European colonization, Europeans who arrived sought to control Native American populations in order to acquire more capital and resources from the newly discovered land. This resulted in policies of genocide and removal targeting Native American women and girls in order to procure land for settlements. Records have shown that Native American girls as young as eleven years-old had hysterectomies operations performed.\n\nRegarding African Americans, the origin of their population control was from the slavery in the United States. During the period of slave trade in the United States, African slaves were used as a mode of production, with slave women being forced into pregnancy to increase the slave labor force. This history of controlling African American populations motivated the future sterilization of African American women.\n\nIn 1927, Supreme Court of the United States endorsed eugenics programs in the country. The ruling pushed the eugenics movement further and resulted in more forced sterilizations of women. Involuntary euthanasia was also supported by American eugenists and practiced in rare instances, with the most promoted method of euthanasia being gas chambers, though it never gained footing in the United States and sterilization became preference.\n\nSupreme Court Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes penned:\n\nEugenics and sterilization programs in the United States would later inspire Nazi eugenics. The American private foundation Rockefeller Foundation assisted with the development and funding of numerous eugenics projects in Germany, including a program directed by Josef Mengele who would later perform human experimentation at Auschwitz. During the Nuremberg trials, Nazis used Holmes' above quote to defend themselves.\n\nNative American and Alaska Native women experience high rates of violence. These acts of violence include sexual assault, domestic violence, and sex trafficking. The US Department of Justice found that 84% of Native American and Alaskan Native women have suffered some form of violence. Of these, 56% have experienced sexual violence. Out of these, more than 90% were assaulted by a non-tribal member. These women report not being safe, and being pushed, shoved, or beaten. Many describe 'psychological aggression' and control. These counts may be underestimated. Native tribal courts are not able to prosecute non-tribal members for sexual assault and rape. Non-Native American men are responsible for most of the assaults against Native American women. Psychological aggression has been experienced by 66.4% by their partner. In the US, greater than 1.5 million American Indian and Alaska Native women have suffered violence during their life.\n\nOver 39% of American Indian and Alaska Native women have experienced violence in the past year. Of these, 14% percent were sexually abused, 9% were assaulted by their intimate partner, 12% were stalked and 25% experienced psychological aggression by their intimate partner. In the past year, over 730,000 American Indian and Alaska Native women experienced violence.\n\nNative American women and Alaska Native women, along with black women, have high murder rates when compared with other ethnicities. Women between ages 18 and 29 comprise 36.3% of Native American women and Alaska Native women murder victims. Intimate partner violence accounts for 47% of those murdered. Current intimate partners commit 81% of the murders and 12% are committed by a past intimate partner. Jealousy, arguments and preceding violent acts occur before the murder 66% of the time. Human trafficking of Native American Women and Alaska Native women is thought to also occur, but studies and statistics are lacking.\n\nWhen compared to other ethnicities, Native American women experience sexual assault and rape rates that are 2.5 higher. Though the Violence Against Women Act was reauthorized in 2013, most tribes struggle to fund jails, courts, jails, law enforcement, judges, and prevention programs.\n\nStatistics are lacking for violence against Native American women who reside on reservations. Data is unknown because no agency collects such information.\n\nImmigrants to the US have great difficulties when they try to leave violent relationships. If a perpetrator controls the immigration status, they can then use the threat of deportation to prevent the battered woman from contacting authorities and assistance agencies. Some legislation passed by the US Congress allowed immigrant victims to leave situations of domestic violence. Other proposed policies not yet in effect are designed to stop deportation of immigrants who have experienced domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking.\n\nOn September 13, 1994, President Bill Clinton signed into law the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which was drafted by Senator Joe Biden (D-DE) and co-written by Democrat Louise Slaughter. The Act granted $1.6 billion of funding for investigating and prosecuting violent crimes directed towards women, making compensation from those convicted automatic and mandatory. VAWA was accepted by Congress with bipartisan support, though House Republicans attempted to cut down on funding in 1995. VAWA created the Office on Violence Against Women, part of the Department of Justice.\n\nIn 2005, the American Civil Liberties Union expressed that \"VAWA is one of the most effective pieces of legislation enacted to end domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and stalking. It has dramatically improved the law enforcement response to violence against women and has provided critical services necessary to support women in their struggle to overcome abusive situations\".\n\nIn 2011, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women, Rashida Manjoo, reported progress in regards to violence towards women in the United States, though she also made recommendations regarding African and Native Americans, immigrants, military personnel and those who are imprisoned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46574074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46574074", "title": "White genocide conspiracy theory", "text": "White genocide conspiracy theory\n\nThe white genocide conspiracy theory is a neo-Nazi, alt-right, white nationalist/supremacist conspiracy theory, which contends that any one of mass immigration, racial integration, miscegenation, low fertility rates, abortion, governmental land-confiscation from whites, organised violence or eliminationism are being promoted in either predominantly white countries, or supposedly white-founded countries, to deliberately replace, remove, or liquidate white populations, dismantle white collective power, turn the countries minority-white, and hence cause white people to become extinct through forced assimilation or violent genocide.\n\nThe conspiracy theory was developed by the neo-Nazi David Lane in about 1995. The phrase \"anti-racist is a code word for anti-white\", coined by high-profile white nationalist Robert Whitaker, is commonly associated with the topic of white genocide. It has appeared on billboards in the United States near Birmingham, Alabama and Harrison, Arkansas. The conspiracy theory had already been purported in Nazi Germany by a pamphlet written for the \"Research Department for the Jewish question\" of Walter Frank's \"Reich Institute\" with the title \"Are the White Nations Dying? The Future of the White and the Colored Nations in the Light of Biological Statistics\".\n\nThe conspiracy theory has been expressed in South Africa and France. It has also been commonly used both interchangeably with, and as a broader and more extreme version of Renaud Camus's 2012 The Great Replacement conspiracy theory, which focuses on the white Christian population of France.\n\nIn August 2018, US President Donald Trump was accused of endorsing the conspiracy theory in a foreign policy tweet instructing Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to investigate South African \"land and farm seizures and expropriations and the large scale killing of farmers\", claiming that the \"South African government is now seizing land from white farmers\". The often critical narrative derived from farm attacks, and land reform, is an established subset theme of the broader conspiracy theory, portrayed in media as a form of gateway or proxy issue to \"white genocide\" within the wider context of the Western world. The topic in relation to South Africa and Zimbabwe is also simply used interchangeably with the subject, as well as being used by white nationalists as a parabolic concept, or cautionary tale, to justify policies to retain or increase white majorities in nation-states, or otherwise maintain their vision of white supremacy.\n\nThe explicit phrasing of \"white genocide\" first appeared sporadically in the neo-Nazi publications \"White Power\" and \"WAR\" in the 1970s and 1980s, where it primarily referred to contraception and abortion. The conspiracy theory was developed by the neo-Nazi David Lane in his \"White Genocide Manifesto\" (, origin of the later use of the term), where he made the claim that the government policies of many Western countries had the intent of destroying white European culture and making white people an \"extinct species\". Lane—a founding member of the organization The Order—criticized miscegenation, abortion, homosexuality, the legal repercussions against those who \"resist genocide\", and the \"Zionist Occupation Government\" that he said controls the United States and the other majority-white countries and which encourages \"white genocide\".\n\nIn the first decade of the 21st century, the conspiracy theory spread beyond its explicit neo-Nazi and white nationalist origins, to be embraced by the newer alt-right movement.\n\nAnders Behring Breivik's entitled manifesto makes frequent mention of an alleged ongoing genocide against white Europeans.\n\nDiscussion threads on the white nationalist Internet forum Stormfront often center around the theme of white people being subjected to genocidal policies by their governments. The concept has also been popularized by the alt-right movement in the United States. The 2017 Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia referenced the conspiracy theory as tiki torch-wielding protestors yelled \"You will not replace us!\" and \"Jews will not replace us!\"\n\nThe notion of racial purity, homogeneity or \"racial hygiene\" is an underlying theme of the white genocide discourse and it has been used by people with neo-Nazi and white supremacist backgrounds.\n\nWhile individual iterations of the conspiracy theory vary on who is assigned blame, Jewish influence, people who hate whites, and liberal political forces are commonly cited by white supremacists as being the main factors leading to a white genocide. This view is held by prominent figures such as David Duke, who cites Jews and \"liberal political ideals\" as the main causes. White nationalist Robert Whitaker, who coined the phrase \"anti-racist is a code word for anti-white\" in a widely circulated 2006 piece seeking to popularize the white genocide concept online, used \"anti-White\" to describe those he believed are responsible for the genocide of white people, and continued to view it as a Jewish conspiracy while emphasizing that others also supported the \"anti-White\" cause.\n\nHowever, the view that Jews are responsible for a white genocide is contested by other white supremacist figures, such as Jared Taylor.\n\nThe conspiracy theory has continuously recurred among the far-right in a variety of forms, all centered around a core theme of white populations being replaced, removed, or simply killed. People who have been described as endorsing or serving instrumental roles in spreading at least one iteration of the conspiracy theory include:\n\n\n\n\n\nStarting with the 2016 US presidential election, there have been allegations that aspects of the conspiracy theory have been adopted as dog-whistling by some mainstream conservative political figures.\n\nIowa congressman Steve King has used rhetoric that Mother Jones and Paste Magazine writers described as invoking the conspiracy theory, saying that \"We can’t restore our civilization with somebody else's babies\" and using the phrase \"cultural suicide\". Vox and The New Republic have described him as an adherent of the theory that immigration and other forms of population shift represent a slow genocide against white populations.\n\nIn 2016, Donald Trump garnered controversy after retweeting Twitter user @WhiteGenocideTM, and @EustaceFash, whose Twitter header image at the time also included the term \"white genocide\". A 2016 analysis of his Twitter feed during the Republican presidential primaries showed that 62% of those that he chose to retweet in an average week followed multiple accounts which discussed the conspiracy theory, and 21% followed prominent white nationalists online. \n\nOn August 23, 2018, US President Donald Trump brought the concept of \"white genocide\" in relation to South Africa significantly further into mainstream media discourse, after he publicly instructed Secretary of State Mike Pompeo to investigate South African farm attacks, an instruction which was broadly portrayed in media as the Trump and his administration advocating for an unfounded conspiracy theory. Trump had apparently gotten his information from a Tucker Carlson segment on Fox News. \"New York\" magazine had claimed Trump was attempting to \"change the conversation – to one about 'white genocide' in South Africa\"; \"Esquire\" reported that the \"President of the United States is now openly promoting an international racist conspiracy theory as the official foreign policy of the United States\". According to the SPLC, Trump had \"tweeted out his intention to put the full force of the U.S. State Department behind a white nationalist conspiracy theory\".\n\nCausing \"angry reaction in South Africa\", many politicians and public figures responded critically to Trump. These included multiple members of the South African Parliament and RSA Deputy President David Mabuza. Julius Malema MP responded to the US President directly, declaring \"there is no white genocide in South Africa\", that US President's intervention into their ongoing land reform issues \"only made them more determined ... to expropriate our land without compensation\", and that there is a black genocide in the U.S. Jeremy Cronin MP stated that the South African government needed to \"send a signal to the courts‚ to Trump‚ to Fox News Agency\" over the issue, whereas Lindiwe Sisulu claimed that his foreign policy tweet was \"regrettable\" and \"based on false information\".\n\nIn the U.S., former US Ambassador to South Africa Patrick Gaspard, and American media personalities Chris Cuomo and Al Sharpton spoke out against the US President on the issue. Gaspard labelled Trump's actions as \"dangerous and poisoned\", while Cuomo stated that Trump was bogusly claiming \"white farmers\" were \"being hunted down and killed and having their land stolen\". Trump had previously caused controversy around the topic as a presidential candidate in 2016, when he republished content from a social media account named \"WhiteGenocideTM\".\n\nFigures on the right of French politics, such as Renaud Camus, have claimed that a 'white genocide' or \"Great Replacement\" is occurring in France. Camus's definition, which focuses largely on the white Christian population in France, has been used in media interchangably with white genocide, and described as a narrower, less extreme and more nationally focused version of the broader conspiracy theory. Despite his focus on the specific demographics of France, Camus also believes all Western countries are facing a form of \"ethnic and civilizational substitution\".\n\nFar-right and alt-right figures, such as singer Steve Hofmeyr, have claimed that a \"white genocide\" is taking place in South Africa. The manifesto of far-right terrorist Anders Behring Breivik entitled \"2083: A European Declaration of Independence\" devotes an entire section to an alleged \"genocide\" against Afrikaners. It also contains several other references to alleged persecution of whites in South Africa and the attacks on white farmers. Mike Cernovich, an American alt-right commentator, has previously stated that \"white genocide in South Africa is real.\" The survivalist group the Suidlanders has claimed credit for publicizing the issue internationally.\n\nGregory Stanton of Genocide Watch has condemned the misuse of his groups's reports of the threat of polarization in South Africa to further the idea of \"white genocide\".\n\nAfrica Check, a fact-checking organisation, has rejected these claims as false: \"In fact, whites are less likely to be murdered than any other race group.\" Africa Check reported that while whites account for nearly 9% of the South African population they represent just 1.8% of murder victims. Lizette Lancaster from the Institute for Security Studies has said that \"Whites are far less likely to be murdered than their black or coloured counterparts.\"\n\nCritics of the conspiracy theory include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31333042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31333042", "title": "World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries", "text": "World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries\n\nWorld Organization of Jews from Arab Countries (WOJAC) was an international advocacy organization, created in 1975, representing Jewish refugees from Arab countries. The World Organization of Jews from Arab Countries was created to make certain that any \"just settlement of the refugee problem\" recognizes those Jews who were forced to flee from lands where they had lived for centuries.\n\nThe WOJAC functioned for approximately 25 years (from 1975 until 1999). WOJAC's aspiration was to operate in the national arena, to counterbalance the claims of the Palestinian leadership on the right to the land and on the refugee question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41007436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41007436", "title": "Yun Hyon-seok", "text": "Yun Hyon-seok\n\nYun Hyon-seok (; August 7, 1984 – April 26, 2003) was a South Korean LGBT poet, writer and LGBT activist. \nHe committed suicide in protest against discrimination against homosexuals in South Korea. During his life, he fought against social discrimination, racism and homophobia.\n\nFrom the 2000s until his death, he was a controversial figure in the eyes of the public and fought against opponents of homosexuality and homosexual psychopath theorists. Throughout his school years, he had been pushed away from a similar peer group. In December 2002, he planned to leave school in order to attend Seil High School. From 1999 to 2003, he was active in the anti-LGBT discrimination movement, the LGBT rights movement, and homophobia opposition movement. In 2001, he debuted in literary world, involving himself in poetry, writing and columnist activities also, but mainly poetry. He received much discrimination and was the victim of prejudice, because of his sexual identity. In 2002, he joined the Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea, and was also a peace activist and a conscientious objector to military service. Up until his death, he wrote more poetry and prose, but his work was rejected, as he was gay.\n\nAfter 2000 he was involved in a LGBT human rights, anti-discrimination, disability rights, and an anti-war peace movement.\n\nOn April 26, 2003, Yun drank two Korean distilled spirits and hanged himself, as a result of the homophobia and closed-mindedness in South Korea. Because of his death, obscene words against homosexual and transgender individuals were revoked and protection was somewhat implemented through the South Korean Youth Protection Act (청소년 보호법). He wrote under the pen name Yook Woo Dang (육우당, 六友堂, \"home of six friends\") and Seolheon (설헌, 雪軒) and was also known by his nickname Midong (미동, 美童, beautiful boy) or Donghwa(동화, 童花, Boy flower). His Catholic baptismal name was \"Antonio\".\n\nHyon-seok was born in 1984, at Bupyong, Incheon. He was born into a devoted Roman Catholic family, and was baptised with the name \"Antonio\". His family were school teachers. He was bullied throughout his school years, and eventually dropped out of Incheon High School in 2002. As a result of this bullying, he often took tranquillisers, and sleeping pills. In 1999, Yun was part of discussions and disputes on the Internet forums, and endured a great deal of homophobia until his death. Yun created an Interpia 98 homepage, but his website was visited by an internet terrorist, and due to personal attacks in 2002, he closed his homepage.\n\nHe awoke to his sexual identity during his time in middle school. He was recognized for his sexual identity problems, and as a result of this, he was picked on. Later he was excluded by his peer group and his neighbourhood due to discrimination. On October 8, 2002, he was sent to a psychiatric clinic by his family, despite his emphatic claims that he was not a psychopath. He was dependent on green tea (녹차), rosary, tobacco, alcohol, foundation and hypnotics, which became known metaphorically as his \"six friends\" as Korean writer Kwak Byong-chan was based on his one nickname \"Yook Woo-dang\", which also means \"six friends\" in the Hangul language. In his last years of life, it was Yun's favorite phrase for the majority of his activity and content, and was used as a signature.\n\nHis family disapproved of his homosexuality and pressured him to be heterosexual, but Yun said, \"I can't be heterosexual and don't want to be heterosexual.\" He was thoroughly isolated, about which he would complain in his diary. In October 2002, one diary entry from Yun said, \"I do not think I'm abnormal. In this world born and living right-handed, also naturally left-handed is born and living. This road exists as also another road exists. Most persons use the well-worn path, but I have to go on a lone desolate path.\" He enjoyed reading, \"The Diary of Anne Frank\" and \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\".\n\nDuring his adolescence, he tried to drown his pain in writing and also went to volunteer in orphanages and disabled groups. Some famous quotes from his works include the following:\n\nAnother famous poem by Yun, \"Reborn\", reads:\n\nYun hinted of the censorship present in South Korean society through his many works and stories. He often embedded satire within his poems, prose, novels and social criticism, yet still sang softly about love.\n\nAfter completing elementary school, Yun wrote poetry and prose, but the majority of his work was given the notoriety to not be seen or read, due to his sexual identity. In his writings, he openly confessed his disappointment in prejudices and conventions, superstition and the remnants of blind faith, and the tradition of clinging to old customs, which strongly dominated the lives of many in South Korea.\n\nHe harbored ill feelings towards South Korean political leaders due to the institutionalized homophobia rampant in South Korea, and because the majority of South Korean political figures were opposed to homosexuality, feeling that it violated traditional social norms and values.\n\nHe was deeply upset by the assertion by political figures that his work violated traditional Korean social mores, due to the conservative attitudes prevalent in South Korean society.\n\nFrom March 1, 2000, he attended Seil High-school in Bupyeong-gu. However, in December 2002, he dropped out of high school. After leaving school, he moved to the Dongdaemun District in Seoul and became involved in the literary and LGBT activist scene. Due to the widespread criticism of the homosexual themes in his writings, especially by fundamental Christians, he was unable to write under his real name despite wanting to do so. Instead he used the pseudonym Yook Woo Dang, a reference to the six objects he relied on most - green tea, cosmetic foundation, alcohol, tobacco, rosary beads and sleeping pills.\n\nAfter the year 2000, Yun objected to the theory that HIV and related infections are directly transmitted by homosexuals, who were considered to be vectors for the virus. In his objection, he stated that the theory was a groundless assumption. Early on in the movement, he was a person who persuaded people that homophobia was unacceptable and fought against discriminatory objections to homosexuality on the internet. In January 2002, he became a long-distance activist. In January 2001, he joined the D Sijo(시조 詩調) poet club and W Sijo poet club, with a rank as a student member. He continued his activity and contributed many writings, including poetry, to Sijo for a period of two years. In February 2001, he joined and later worked for the organization Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea. He also became a conscientious objector to Korea's conscription military service. Yun emphasised that viewing homosexuality as sinful and denying acceptance for homosexuals as 'children of God' is wrong, whereas some Conservative Christian groups' ideology viewed it as anti-biblical activity.\n\nIn autumn of 2002, Yun sought after more volunteers or full-time employees for the Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea. His earnest desires were approved for March of the following year.\n\nIn January 2003, he was hired to work in a gay bar in Gangnam-gu, Seoul. However, due to anxiety, he soon retired from the job. Afterwards, parallel with several part-time jobs, he committed to become a civil and human rights activist. On March 24, 2003, he became a full-time employee of Solidarity for LGBT Human Rights of Korea. He participated in media censorship-opposition movements. Yun was repetitively insistent, particularly with some South Koreans who were intent on trampling many artists, entertainers and writers, even though pop culture was fresh with a variety of creativity and various artists. They were condemned in the name of morals and ethics.\n\nYun was an LGBT rights activist, and during this time participated in the abolition movement of LGBT and LGBT related media which was regarded as \"youth Harmful media specified\"(청소년 유해 매체). At the same time, he always attended anti-war and peace rallies in Jongro, Seoul. Slowly, he became the leading representative in anti-war and peace movements as a guest speaker. Additionally, he participated in an opposition campaign in Seoul which aimed to prevent the government from sending troops overseas to participate in the Iraq war. On April 3, he was a determined participant in the Conscientious objection to military service(양심적 병역 거부). Yun declared his refusal the wholesale slaughter of innocent peoples. Also, he participated in the sex worker rights movement and antidiscrimination movements, sex workers discrimination opposition movements. also with joint to Ableism objection movements.\n\nSouth Korean fundamentalist Christians and some South Korean Christian denominations hated on homosexuality. For a long time, fundamentalist Christians and some Christian denominations believed that homosexuals and transgender individuals were \"crazy\". In the year 2000, Yun disputed with them. Yun insisted that homosexuality was not a mental illness and that it was personal taste. Although Yun was a devout Catholic, there was an immense amount of criticism by Christianity on homosexuality. It is known that he largely despaired.\n\nOn April 2, 2003, the South Korean National Human Rights Commission of Korea Association made a formal announcement that the LGBT and LGBT-related media regarded as \"youth Harmful media specified\" was human rights abuse. He was welcoming and at the same time condemning of some of the more Christian groups, while government agencies instigated that there was sexual corruption. Yun debated them by setting forth counterarguments and objections to contribute to daily newspapers. Two day later, some South Korean conservative Christian groups said, \"Sodom and Gomorrah was destroyed to the wrath of God for judgment of sulfur, sexual depravity because homosexuals. the Bible strictly forbids homosexuality. Commission has to withdraw the decision.\"; they argued that homosexuality disrupted the natural order and caused HIV infection. On April 7, he said:\n\n\"Homosexuals is one of people, ye is dangerous psychopath also see to one of Human, anyway ye is Homosexuals is only see to non-human animals, demons?\"\n\nHe vigorously protested, but his objections were viewed to still not be acceptable, so on April 13 he made a real name contribution to Hnagyeorye:\n\nOn April 11, he withdrew from Catholic society, causing a backlash of Christian fundamentalist homophobia, which was later taken back in the following two days. Afterwards, he prayed daily, with a desire for homosexuals to not be discriminated by his God. Yun Hyon-seok was determined to commit suicide from this point, due to the anger and hatred against many homosexual Christians.\n\nIn April 2003, Hyon-seok and other human-rights activists were making preparations for a May Day meeting. For a long time, he was a devout Christian, despite the criticism from other Christians because of his sexual identity. Yun had been disappointed for a long time, but he was devoted to his religion. He had immediately suffered homosexual discrimination and contempt. On 26 April 2003, he committed suicide at Dongdaemun street in Seoul by hanging himself. On April 26 at 3:00 pm, Yun was reported to have been drinking alcohol. Two days before his death, Yun created a six-page suicide note.\n\nOn 3:00 pm of that day, Yun's suicide note described the discrimination against homosexuals in Korean society. He bequeathed ₩ 340,000 and the Rosary. His suicide note read:\n\nThe letter concluded with: \"I believe My Father God will accept me!\"\n\nBeside his corpse lay some waste paper and two bottles, leading us to believe that before his death, he had been drinking Korean distilled spirits. Another keepsake of his was the Cross and pictures of the \"Holy Mother\".\n\nHe was 18 years of age.\n\nOn April 27, upon discovery to a member of SLRK, his dead body was cremated in Byupyong crematorium. His ashes lay in state at Incheon Family Park Memorium (인천 가족 공원). A posthumous collection of his work was published in 2006.\n\nYun left a will, to continue to fight against prejudice and discrimination. In his will was written:\n\nOn April 29, 2003, in the wake of his death, the South Korean government's designated obscene slang words towards homosexuality were removed.\n\nYun's death was intentionally ignored and disregarded by some homophobic Christians of South Korea. On April 29, the annulment of the prohibition for LGBT and LGBT-related media regarded as \"youth-harmful media\" was decided. It was abolished a year after his death. On April 21, 2006, one part of his poems and prose was published at the three-year anniversary of his death as a tribute in Seoul.\n\n\nIn addition to \"Yook Woo Dang\" he also used the pen name \"Seolheon\" in reference to pre-modern Korean poet Heo Nanseolheon (허난설헌, 許蘭雪軒).\n\n\n\n"}
