{"id": "27600017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27600017", "title": "AS3959", "text": "AS3959\n\nAS3959 is an Australian Standard for construction of homes in bushfire prone zones. The latest version AS3959:2009 was hurried into release after the devastation of \"Black Saturday\" bushfires, which killed 173 people and destroyed over 2,000 homes.\n\nThe latest release of AS3959 has significant changes, bringing major changes to construction of homes to be built in the future. Under this new standard all proposed building requires the builder or landowner to undergo a BAL (Bushfire Attack Level) Assessment. This requires a report tabled to establish the threat of bushfire on this future proposed dwelling. The report takes in matters such as the area FDI (Fire Danger Index), the blocks ground slope, vegetation type and density to determine the intensity of fire attack, split into 6 levels. The six levels relate to the intensity of Radiant Heat exposure, with the levels being BAL-LOW (no threat or construction changes needed), BAL-12.5 (Radiant Heat levels would calculate 12.5 kW/m²), BAL-19 (19 kW/m²), BAL-29 (29 kW/m²), BAL-40 (40 kW/m²) and BAL-FZ (Flame Zone, which can be as high as 100 kW/m²).\nAS3959:2009 therefore instructs what changes and test methods are required for construction to comply to the BAL Assessed levels.\nAS3959:2009 from 1 May 2010 has been adopted as part of the BCA (Building Code Of Australia).\n\nCopies of Australian Standards such as AS3959 are available from SAI Global, or see organisations such as the Victorian Building Authority, Victorian Country Fire Authority or the NSW Rural Fire Service for further information and guidelines on this subject.\n\n"}
{"id": "15021680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15021680", "title": "Amundsen's South Pole expedition", "text": "Amundsen's South Pole expedition\n\nThe first expedition to reach the geographic South Pole was led by the Norwegian explorer Roald Amundsen. He and four others arrived at the pole on 14 December 1911, five weeks ahead of a British party led by Robert Falcon Scott as part of the Terra Nova Expedition. Amundsen and his team returned safely to their base, and later knew that Scott and his four companions had died on their return journey.\n\nAmundsen's initial plans had focused on the Arctic and the conquest of the North Pole by means of an extended drift in an icebound ship. He obtained the use of Fridtjof Nansen's polar exploration ship \"Fram\", and undertook extensive fundraising. Preparations for this expedition were disrupted when, in 1909, the rival American explorers Frederick Cook and Robert E. Peary each claimed to have reached the North Pole. Amundsen then changed his plan and began to prepare for a conquest of the South Pole; uncertain of the extent to which the public and his backers would support him, he kept this revised objective secret. When he set out in June 1910, he led even his crew to believe they were embarking on an Arctic drift, and revealed their true Antarctic destination only when \"Fram\" was leaving their last port of call, Madeira.\n\nAmundsen made his Antarctic base, which he named \"Framheim\", in the Bay of Whales on the Great Ice Barrier. After months of preparation, depot-laying and a false start that ended in near-disaster, he and his party set out for the pole in October 1911. In the course of their journey they discovered the Axel Heiberg Glacier, which provided their route to the polar plateau and ultimately to the South Pole. The party's mastery of the use of skis and their expertise with sled dogs ensured rapid and relatively trouble-free travel. Other achievements of the expedition included the first exploration of King Edward VII Land and an extensive oceanographic cruise.\n\nThe expedition's success was widely applauded, though the story of Scott's heroic failure overshadowed its achievement in the United Kingdom. Amundsen's decision to keep his true plans secret until the last moment was criticised by some. Recent polar historians have more fully recognised the skill and courage of Amundsen's party; the permanent scientific base at the pole bears his name, together with that of Scott.\n\nAmundsen was born in Fredrikstad (around 80 km from Christiania (now Oslo)), Norway, in 1872, the son of a ship-owner. In 1893, he abandoned his medical studies at Christiania University and signed up as a seaman aboard the sealer \"Magdalena\" for a voyage to the Arctic. After several further voyages he qualified as a second mate; when not at sea, he developed his skills as a cross-country skier in the harsh environment of Norway's Hardangervidda plateau. In 1896, inspired by the polar exploits of his countryman Fridtjof Nansen, Amundsen joined the Belgian Antarctic Expedition as mate, aboard \"Belgica\" under Adrien de Gerlache. Early in 1898 the ship became trapped by pack ice in the Bellinghausen Sea, and was held fast for almost a year. The expedition thus became, involuntarily, the first to spend a complete winter in Antarctic waters, a period marked by depression, near-starvation, insanity, and scurvy among the crew. Amundsen remained dispassionate, recording everything and using the experience as an education in all aspects of polar exploration techniques, particularly aids, clothing and diet.\n\n\"Belgica\"s voyage marked the beginning of what became known as the Heroic Age of Antarctic Exploration, and was rapidly followed by expeditions from the United Kingdom, Sweden, Germany and France. However, on his return to Norway in 1899, Amundsen turned his attention northwards. Confident in his abilities to lead an expedition, he planned a traversal of the Northwest Passage, the then-uncharted sea route from the Atlantic to the Pacific through the labyrinth of north Canadian islands. Having earned his master's ticket, Amundsen acquired a small sloop, \"Gjøa\", which he adapted for Arctic travel. He secured the patronage of King Oscar of Sweden and Norway, the support of Nansen, and sufficient financial backing to set out in June 1903 with a crew of six. The voyage lasted until 1906 and was wholly successful; the Northwest Passage, which defeated mariners for centuries, was finally conquered. At the age of 34 Amundsen became a national hero, in the first rank of polar explorers.\n\nIn November 1906 the American Robert Peary returned from his latest unsuccessful quest for the North Pole, claiming a new Farthest North of 87° 6′—a record disputed by later historians. He immediately began raising funds for a further attempt. In July 1907 Dr Frederick Cook, a former shipmate of Amundsen's from \"Belgica\", set off northwards on what was ostensibly a hunting trip but was rumoured to be an attempt on the North Pole. A month later Ernest Shackleton's \"Nimrod\" Expedition sailed for Antarctica, while Robert Falcon Scott was preparing a further expedition should Shackleton fail. Amundsen saw no reason to concede priority in the south to the British, and spoke publicly about the prospects of leading an Antarctic expedition—although his preferred goal remained the North Pole.\n\nIn 1893 Nansen had driven his ship \"Fram\" into the Arctic pack ice off the northern Siberian coast and allowed it to drift in the ice towards Greenland, hoping that this route would cross the North Pole. In the event, the drift did not approach the pole, and an attempt by Nansen and Hjalmar Johansen to reach it on foot was likewise unsuccessful. Nevertheless, Nansen's strategy became the basis of Amundsen's own Arctic plans. He reasoned that if he entered the Arctic Ocean via the Bering Strait, well to the east of Nansen's starting point, his ship would achieve a more northerly drift and pass near or through the pole.\n\nAmundsen consulted Nansen, who insisted that \"Fram\" was the only vessel fit for such an undertaking. \"Fram\" had been designed and built in 1891–93 by Colin Archer, Norway's leading shipbuilder and naval architect, in accordance with Nansen's exacting specifications, as a vessel that would withstand prolonged exposure to the harshest of Arctic conditions. The ship's most distinctive feature was its rounded hull which, according to Nansen, enabled the vessel to \"slip like an eel out of the embraces of the ice\". For extra strength the hull was sheathed in South American greenheart, the hardest timber available, and crossbeams and braces were fitted throughout its length. The ship's wide beam of in relation to its overall length of gave it a markedly stubby appearance. This shape improved its strength in the ice but affected its performance in the open sea, where it moved sluggishly and was inclined to roll most uncomfortably. However, its looks, speed, and sailing qualities were secondary to the provision of a secure and warm shelter for the crew during a voyage that might extend over several years.\n\n\"Fram\" had emerged virtually unscathed from Nansen's expedition after nearly three years in the polar ice. On its return it had been refitted, before spending four years under the command of Otto Sverdrup, charting and exploring of uninhabited territory in the northern Canadian islands. After Sverdrup's voyage ended in 1902 \"Fram\" was laid up in Christiania. Although the ship was technically the property of the state, it was tacitly acknowledged that Nansen had first call on it. After his return from the Arctic in 1896 he had aspired to take \"Fram\" on an expedition to Antarctica, but by 1907 such hopes had faded. Late in September of that year, Amundsen was summoned to Nansen's home and told he could have the ship.\n\nAmundsen made his plans public on 10 November 1908, at a meeting of the Norwegian Geographical Society. He would take \"Fram\" round Cape Horn to the Pacific Ocean; after provisioning in San Francisco the ship would continue northwards, through the Bering Strait to Point Barrow. From here he would set a course directly into the ice to begin a drift that would extend over four or five years. Science would be as important as geographical exploration; continuous observations would, Amundsen hoped, help to explain a number of unresolved problems. The plan was received enthusiastically, and the next day King Haakon opened a subscription list with a gift of 20,000 kroner. On 6 February 1909 the Norwegian Parliament approved a grant of 75,000 kroner to refit the ship. The general fundraising and business management of the expedition was placed in the hands of Amundsen's brother Leon so that the explorer could concentrate on the more practical aspects of organisation.\n\nIn March 1909 it was announced that Shackleton had reached a southern latitude of 88° 23′— from the South Pole—before turning back; thus, as Amundsen observed, in the south \"a little corner remained\". He was unreserved in his praise for Shackleton's achievement, writing that Shackleton was the south's equivalent of Nansen in the north. Following this near miss, Scott immediately confirmed his intention to lead an expedition (what became the Terra Nova Expedition) that would encompass the \"little corner\" and claim the prize for the British Empire.\n\nAmundsen chose three naval lieutenants as his expedition's officers: Thorvald Nilsen, a navigator who would be second-in-command; Hjalmar Fredrik Gjertsen, and Kristian Prestrud. Gjertsen, despite lacking a medical background, was made expedition doctor, and was sent on a \"lightning course\" in surgery and dentistry. A naval gunner, Oscar Wisting, was accepted on Prestrud's recommendation because he could turn his hand to most tasks. Although he had little previous experience of sledge dogs, Amundsen wrote that Wisting developed \"a way of his own\" with them, and became a useful amateur veterinarian.\n\nAn early choice for the party was Olav Bjaaland, a champion skier who was a skilled carpenter and ski-maker. Bjaaland was from Morgedal in the Telemark province of Norway, a region renowned for the prowess of its skiers and as the home of the pioneer of modern techniques, Sondre Norheim. Amundsen shared Nansen's belief that skis and sledge dogs provided by far the most efficient method of Arctic transport, and was determined to recruit the most skilful dog drivers. Helmer Hanssen, who had proved his worth on the \"Gjøa\" expedition, agreed to travel with Amundsen again. He was joined later by Sverre Hassel, an expert on dogs, and veteran of Sverdrup's 1898–1902 \"Fram\" voyage, who intended only to travel with Amundsen as far as San Francisco. Mindful of the value of a competent cook, Amundsen secured the services of Adolf Lindstrøm, another Sverdrup veteran who had been cook aboard \"Gjøa\".\n\nFrom his experiences on board \"Belgica\" and \"Gjøa\", Amundsen had learned the importance on long voyages of stable and compatible companions, and with these experienced personnel he felt he had the core of his expedition. He continued to recruit through 1909; the \"Fram\" party would eventually total 19. All of these except one were Amundsen's personal choices; the exception was Hjalmar Johansen, who was taken on at the request of Nansen. Since his epic march with Nansen, Johansen had been unable to settle down. Despite the efforts of Nansen and others to help him, his life became a spiral of drink and indebtedness. Nansen wished to give his former comrade a final chance to show that he was still a capable worker in the field; feeling that he could not refuse Nansen's wishes, Amundsen reluctantly accepted Johansen. The party contained two foreigners: a young Russian oceanographer Alexander Kuchin (or Kutchin), who was a pupil of Bjorn Helland-Hansen, and a Swedish engineer, Knut Sundbeck.\n\nIn September 1909 newspapers carried reports that Cook and Peary had each reached the North Pole, Cook in April 1908 and Peary a year later. Asked to comment, Amundsen avoided an outright endorsement of either explorer, but surmised that \"probably something will be left to be done\". While he avoided the controversy over the rival claims, he saw immediately that his own plans would be seriously affected. Without the allure of capturing the pole, he would struggle to maintain public interest or funding. \"If the expedition was to be saved ... there was nothing left for me but to try and solve the last great problem—the South Pole\". Thus Amundsen decided to go south; the Arctic drift could wait \"for a year or two\" until the South Pole had been conquered.\n\nAmundsen did not publicise his change of plan. As Scott's biographer David Crane points out, the expedition's public and private funding was earmarked for scientific work in the Arctic; there was no guarantee that the backers would understand or agree to the proposed \"volte-face\". Furthermore, the altered objective might cause Nansen to revoke the use of \"Fram\", or parliament to halt the expedition for fear of undermining Scott and offending the British. Amundsen concealed his intentions from everyone except his brother Leon and his second-in-command, Nilsen. This secrecy led to awkwardness; Scott had sent Amundsen instruments to enable their two expeditions, at opposite ends of the earth, to make comparative readings. When Scott, in Norway to test his motor sledges, telephoned Amundsen's home to discuss cooperation, the Norwegian would not take the call.\n\nThe privately revised expedition schedule required \"Fram\" to leave Norway in August 1910 and sail to Madeira in the Atlantic, its only port of call. From there the ship would proceed directly to the Ross Sea in Antarctica, heading for the Bay of Whales, an inlet on the Ross Ice Shelf (then known as the \"Great Ice Barrier\") where Amundsen intended to make his base camp. The Bay of Whales was the southernmost point in the Ross Sea to which a ship could penetrate, closer to the Pole than Scott's intended base at McMurdo Sound. In 1907–09 Shackleton had considered the ice in the Bay of Whales to be unstable, but from his studies of Shackleton's records Amundsen decided that the Barrier here was grounded on shoals or skerries, and would support a safe and secure base. After landing the shore party, \"Fram\" was to carry out oceanographic work in the Atlantic before picking up the shore party early in the following year.\n\nAmundsen did not understand the apparent aversion of British explorers to dogs: \"Can it be that the dog has not understood its master? Or is it the master who has not understood the dog?\" he later wrote. Following his decision to go south he ordered 100 North Greenland sledge dogs—the best and strongest available.\n\nThe party's ski boots, specially designed by Amundsen, were the product of two years' testing and modification in search of perfection. The party's polar clothing included suits of sealskin from Northern Greenland, and clothes fashioned after the style of the Netsilik Inuit from reindeer skins, wolf skin, Burberry cloth and gabardine. The sledges were constructed from Norwegian ash with steel-shod runners made from American hickory. Skis, also fashioned from hickory, were extra long to reduce the likelihood of slipping into crevasses. The tents—\"the strongest and most practical that have ever been used\"—had built-in floors and required a single pole. For cooking on the march, Amundsen chose the Swedish Primus stove rather than the special cooker devised by Nansen, because he felt the latter took up too much space.\n\nFrom his experiences on \"Belgica\", Amundsen was aware of the dangers of scurvy. Although the true cause of the disease, vitamin C deficiency, was not understood at the time, it was generally known that the disease could be countered by eating fresh meat. To neutralise the danger, Amundsen planned to supplement sledging rations with regular helpings of seal meat. He also ordered a special kind of pemmican which included vegetables and oatmeal: \"a more stimulating, nourishing and appetising food it would be impossible to find\". The expedition was well supplied with wines and spirits, for use as medicine and on festive or social occasions. Mindful of the loss of morale on \"Belgica\", Amundsen provided for leisure time with a library of around 3,000 books, a gramophone, a large quantity of records and a range of musical instruments.\n\nIn the months before departure, funds for the expedition became harder to acquire. Because of limited public interest, newspaper deals were cancelled and parliament refused a request for a further 25,000 kroner. Amundsen mortgaged his house to keep the expedition afloat; heavily in debt, he was now wholly dependent on the expedition's success to avoid personal financial ruin.\n\nAfter a month's trial cruise in the northern Atlantic, \"Fram\" sailed to Kristiansand in late July 1910 to take the dogs on board and to make final preparations for departure. While at Kristiansand, Amundsen received an offer of help from Peter \"Don Pedro\" Christophersen, a Norwegian expatriate whose brother was Norway's Minister in Buenos Aires. Christophersen would provide fuel and other provisions to \"Fram\" at either Montevideo or Buenos Aires, an offer which Amundsen gratefully accepted. Just before \"Fram\" sailed on 9 August, Amundsen revealed the expedition's true destination to the two junior officers, Prestrud and Gjertsen. On the four-week voyage to Funchal in Madeira, a mood of uncertainty developed among the crew, who could not make sense of some of the preparations and whose questions were met with evasive answers from their officers. This, says Amundsen's biographer Roland Huntford, was \"enough to generate suspicion and low spirits\".\n\n\"Fram\" reached Funchal on 6 September. Three days later Amundsen informed the crew of the revised plan. He told them he intended to make \"a detour\" to the South Pole on the way to the North Pole, which was still his ultimate destination, but would have to wait for a while. After Amundsen outlined his new proposals, each man was asked whether he was willing to go on, and all responded positively. Amundsen wrote a lengthy letter of explanation to Nansen, stressing how the North Pole claims of Cook and Peary had dealt a \"death blow\" to his original plans. He felt he had been forced into this action by necessity, asked for forgiveness and expressed the hope that his achievements would ultimately atone for any offence.\n\nBefore leaving Funchal on 9 September Amundsen sent a cable to Scott, to inform him of the change of plan. Scott's ship \"Terra Nova\" had left Cardiff amid much publicity on 15 June, and was due to arrive in Australia early in October. It was to Melbourne that Amundsen sent his telegram, containing the bare information that he was proceeding southwards. No indication was given of the Norwegian's plans or his destination in Antarctica; Scott wrote to the Royal Geographical Society (RGS) secretary, John Scott Keltie: \"We shall know in due course I suppose\". News of Amundsen's revised plans reached Norway early in October and provoked a generally hostile response. Although Nansen gave his blessing and warm approval, Amundsen's actions were with few exceptions condemned by press and public, and funding dried up almost completely. Reactions in Britain were predictably adverse; an initial disbelief expressed by Keltie soon turned to anger and scorn. \"I have sent full details of Amundsen's underhand conduct to Scott ... If I was Scott I would not let them land\", wrote Sir Clements Markham, the influential former RGS president. Unaware of the world's reactions, \"Fram\" sailed south for four months. The first icebergs were sighted on New Year's Day 1911; the Barrier itself came into view on 11 January, and on 14 January \"Fram\" was in the Bay of Whales.\n\nAfter \"Fram\" was anchored to ice in an inlet in the south-eastern corner of the Bay, Amundsen selected a site for the expedition's main hut, from the ship. Six teams of dogs were used to move supplies to the site, as work on erecting the hut began. Bjaaland and Stubberud laid the foundations deep into the ice, levelling the sloping ground. Because the prevailing winds came from the east, the hut was erected on an east-west axis, with the door facing west; in this way the wind caught only the shorter eastern wall. The roof was in place by 21 January, and six days later the hut was complete. By then a large supply of meat—including 200 seals—had been brought to the base, for use by the shore party and to be laid in depots before the journey to the pole. The base was dubbed Framheim, \"the home of \"Fram\"\".\n\nEarly on the morning of 3 February, \"Terra Nova\" arrived unexpectedly in the Bay of Whales. She had sailed from New Zealand on 29 November 1910 and had arrived in McMurdo Sound early in January. After landing Scott and his main party there, \"Terra Nova\" had taken a party of six men, led by Victor Campbell, eastward to King Edward VII Land. This group intended to explore this then-unknown territory, but had been prevented by sea ice from approaching the shore. The ship was sailing westward along the Barrier edge in search of a possible landing place when it encountered \"Fram\". Scott had previously speculated that Amundsen might make his base in the Weddell Sea area, on the opposite side of the continent; this proof that the Norwegians would be starting the race for the pole with a 60 nautical mile advantage was an alarming prospect for the British. The two groups behaved civilly towards each other; Campbell and his officers Harry Pennell and George Murray Levick breakfasted aboard \"Fram\", and reciprocated with lunch on the \"Terra Nova\". Amundsen was relieved to learn that \"Terra Nova\" had no wireless radio, since that might have imperilled his strategy to be first with the news of a polar victory. He was worried, however, by a remark of Campbell's that implied that Scott's motorised sledges were working well. Nevertheless, he offered the British party a site alongside Framheim as a base for the exploration of King Edward VII Land. Campbell turned the offer down, and sailed for McMurdo Sound to inform Scott of Amundsen's whereabouts.\n\nIn early February Amundsen began organising the depot-laying journeys across the Barrier, in preparation for the following summer's assault on the pole. Supply depots laid in advance at regular intervals on the projected route would limit the amount of food and fuel that the South Pole party would have to carry. The depot journeys would be the first true tests of equipment, dogs and men. For the first journey, to begin on 10 February, Amundsen chose Prestrud, Helmer Hanssen and Johansen to accompany him; 18 dogs would pull three sledges. Before leaving, Amundsen left instructions with Nilsen regarding \"Fram\". The ship was to sail to Buenos Aires for reprovisioning, before undertaking a programme of oceanographic work in the Southern Ocean and then returning to the Barrier as early as possible in 1912.\n\nWhen the four men began their journey south, their only knowledge of the Barrier was from books previous explorers had published, and they anticipated difficult travelling conditions. They were surprised to find the Barrier surface was much like that of a conventional glacier; they covered on the first day. Amundsen noted how well his dogs were performing in these conditions, and wondered at the English aversion to the use of dogs on the Barrier. The party reached 80° S on 14 February, and after laying the depot turned for home, reaching Framheim on 16 February.\n\nThe second depot-laying party left Framheim on 22 February, with eight men, seven sledges and forty-two dogs. Conditions on the Barrier had deteriorated sharply; average temperatures had dropped by 9 °C (16 °F), and rough snow had drifted across the previously smooth ice surface. In temperatures sometimes as low as , on 3 March the party reached 81° S, where they established a second depot. Amundsen, Helmer Hanssen, Prestrud, Johansen and Wisting then continued with the strongest dogs, hoping to reach 83° S, but in difficult conditions they halted at 82° S on 8 March. Amundsen could see that the dogs were exhausted; the party turned for home, and with light sledges travelled swiftly to reach Framheim on 22 March. Amundsen wanted more supplies taken south before the impending polar night made travel impossible, and on 31 March a party of seven men led by Johansen left Framheim for the 80° S depot with six slaughtered seals— of meat. The party returned on 11 April—three days later than expected—after they strayed into a field of crevasses.\n\nOverall, the depot-laying journeys established three depots containing of supplies, which included of seal meat and of paraffin oil. Amundsen learned much from the journeys, especially on the second, when the dogs struggled with sledges that were too heavy. He decided to increase the number of dogs for the polar journey, if necessary at the expense of the number of men. The journeys revealed some disunity among the men, particularly between Johansen and Amundsen. During the second depot journey, Johansen openly complained about the unsatisfactory nature of the equipment; Amundsen believed that his authority had been challenged.\n\nThe sun set over Framheim on 21 April, not to reappear for four months. Amundsen was mindful of the boredom and loss of morale that had blighted the \"Belgica\" expedition's winter in the ice, and although there was no possibility of sledging he ensured that the shore party kept busy. One urgent task was to improve the sledges, which had not worked well during the depot journeys. In addition to those chosen specifically for the expedition, Amundsen had brought along several sledges from Sverdrup's 1898–1902 \"Fram\" expedition, which he now thought would be better suited to the task ahead. Bjaaland reduced the weight of these older sledges by almost a third by planing down the timber, and also constructed three sledges of his own from some spare hickory wood. The adapted sledges were to be used to cross the Barrier, while Bjaaland's new set would be used in the final stages of the journey, across the polar plateau itself. Johansen prepared the sledging rations (42,000 biscuits, 1,320 tins of pemmican and about of chocolate), while other men worked on improving the boots, cooking equipment, goggles, skis and tents. To combat the dangers of scurvy, twice a day the men ate seal meat that had been collected and frozen in quantities before the onset of winter. The cook, Lindstrøm, supplemented the vitamin C intake with bottled cloudberries and blueberries, and provided wholemeal bread made with fresh yeast, rich in B vitamins.\n\nWhile Amundsen was confident in his men and equipment, he was, Hassel recorded, tormented by thoughts of Scott's motor sledges and the fear that these would carry the British party to success. With this in mind Amundsen planned to begin the polar journey as soon as the sun rose in late August, though Johansen warned that it would be too cold on the Barrier so early in the season. Amundsen overruled him, and at sunrise on 24 August seven sledges were made ready. Johansen's concerns seemed justified, as harsh conditions for the next two weeks—temperatures as low as —prevented the men from leaving. On 8 September 1911, when the temperature rose to , Amundsen decided he could wait no longer, and the party of eight set off; Lindstrøm remained alone at Framheim.\n\nThe party made good initial progress, travelling around each day. The dogs ran so hard that several from the strongest teams were detached from the traces and secured onto the sledges to act as ballast. In their wolf-skin and reindeer-skin clothing the men could cope with the freezing temperatures while they kept moving, but when they stopped they suffered, and barely slept at night. The dogs' paws became frostbitten. On 12 September, with temperatures down to , the party halted after only and built igloos for shelter. Amundsen now recognised that they had started the march too early in the season, and decided they should return to Framheim. He would not risk the lives of men and dogs for reasons of stubbornness. Johansen, in his diary, wrote of the foolishness of starting prematurely on such a long and historic journey, and of the dangers of an obsession with beating the English.\n\nOn 14 September, on their way back to Framheim, they left most of their equipment at the 80° S depot, to lighten the sledges. Next day, in freezing temperatures with a strong headwind, several dogs froze to death while others, too weak to continue, were placed upon the sledges. On 16 September, from Framheim, Amundsen ordered his men to push for home as quickly as possible. Not having a sledge of his own, he leapt onto Wisting's, and with Helmer Hanssen and his team raced away, leaving the rest behind. The three arrived back at Framheim after nine hours, followed by Stubberud and Bjaaland two hours later and Hassel shortly after. Johansen and Prestrud were still out on the ice, without food or fuel; Prestrud's dogs had failed, and his heels were badly frostbitten. They reached Framheim after midnight, more than seventeen hours after they had turned for home.\n\nNext day, Amundsen asked Johansen why he and Prestrud had been so late. Johansen answered angrily that he felt they had been abandoned, and castigated the leader for leaving his men behind. Amundsen would later inform Nansen that Johansen had been \"violently insubordinate\"; as a result, he was excluded from the polar party, which Amundsen now reduced to five. Johansen was placed under the command of Prestrud, much his junior as an explorer, in a party that would explore King Edward VII Land. Stubberud was persuaded to join them, leaving Amundsen, Helmer Hanssen, Bjaaland, Hassel and Wisting as the revised South Pole party.\n\nDespite his eagerness to start out again, Amundsen waited until mid-October and the first hints of spring. He was ready to leave on 15 October, but was held up by the weather for a few more days. On 19 October 1911 the five men, with four sledges and fifty-two dogs, began their journey. The weather quickly worsened, and in heavy fog the party strayed into the field of crevasses that Johansen's depot party had discovered the previous autumn. Wisting later recalled how his sledge, with Amundsen aboard, nearly disappeared down a crevasse when the snow bridge broke underneath it.\n\nDespite this near mishap they were covering more than a day, and reached their 82° S depot on 5 November. They marked their route by a line of cairns, built of snow blocks, at three-mile intervals. On 17 November they reached the edge of the Barrier and faced the Transantarctic Mountains. Unlike Scott, who would be following the Beardmore Glacier route pioneered by Shackleton, Amundsen had to find his own route through the mountains. After probing the foothills for several days and climbing to around , the party found what appeared to be a clear route, a steep glacier long leading upwards to the plateau. Amundsen named this the Axel Heiberg Glacier, after one of his chief financial backers. It was a harder ascent than the team had anticipated, made much longer by the need to take detours, and by the deep, soft snow. After three days of difficult climbing the party reached the glacier summit. Amundsen was full of praise for his dogs, and scorned the idea that they could not work in such conditions; on 21 November the party travelled 17 miles and climbed .\n\nUpon reaching at the summit of the glacier, at 85° 36′ S, Amundsen prepared for the final stage of the journey. Of the 45 dogs who had made the ascent (7 had perished during the Barrier stage), only 18 would go forward; the remainder were to be killed for food. Each of the sledge-drivers killed dogs from his own team, skinned them, and divided the meat between dogs and men. \"We called the place the Butchers' Shop\", Amundsen recalled. \"[T]here was depression and sadness in the air; we had grown so fond of our dogs\". Regrets did not prevent the team from enjoying the plentiful food; Wisting proved particularly skilful in his preparation and presentation of the meat.\n\nThe party loaded up three sledges with supplies for a march of up to 60 days, leaving the remaining provisions and dog carcasses in a depot. Bad weather prevented their departure until 25 November, when they set off cautiously over the unknown ground in persistent fog. They were travelling over an icy surface broken by frequent crevasses, which together with the poor visibility slowed their progress. Amundsen called this area the \"Devil's Glacier\". On 4 December they came to an area where the crevasses were concealed under layers of snow and ice with a space between, which gave what Amundsen called an \"unpleasantly hollow\" sound as the party passed over it. He christened this area \"The Devil's Ballroom.\" When later that day they emerged on to more solid ground, they had reached 87° S.\n\nOn 8 December the Norwegians passed Shackleton's Farthest South record of 88° 23′. As they neared the pole, they looked for any break in the landscape that might indicate another expedition had got there ahead of them. While camped on 12 December they were momentarily alarmed by a black object that appeared on the horizon, but this proved to be their own dogs' droppings off in the distance, magnified by mirage. Next day they camped at 89° 45′ S, from the pole. On the following day, 14 December 1911, with the concurrence of his comrades Amundsen travelled in front of the sledges, and at around 3 pm the party reached the vicinity of the South Pole. They planted the Norwegian flag and named the polar plateau \"King Haakon VII's Plateau\". Amundsen later reflected on the irony of his achievement: \"Never has a man achieved a goal so diametrically opposed to his wishes. The area around the North Pole—devil take it—had fascinated me since childhood, and now here I was at the South Pole. Could anything be more crazy?\"\n\nFor the next three days the men worked to fix the exact position of the pole; after the conflicting and disputed claims of Cook and Peary in the north, Amundsen wanted to leave unmistakable markers for Scott. After taking several sextant readings at different times of day, Bjaaland, Wisting and Hassel skied out in different directions to \"box\" the pole; Amundsen reasoned that between them they would bracket the exact point. Finally the party pitched a tent, which they called Polheim, as near as possible to the actual pole as they could calculate by their observations. In the tent Amundsen left equipment for Scott, and a letter addressed to King Haakon which he requested Scott to deliver.\n\nOn 18 December, the party began the journey back to Framheim. Amundsen was determined to return to civilisation before Scott, and be first with the news. Nevertheless, he limited their daily distances to , to preserve the strength of dogs and men. In the 24-hour daylight the party travelled during the national night, to keep the sun at their backs and thus reduce the danger of snow-blindness. Guided by the snow cairns built on their outward journey, they reached the Butchers' Shop on 4 January 1912, and began the descent to the Barrier. The men on skis \"went whizzing down\", but for the sledge drivers—Helmer Hanssen and Wisting—the descent was precarious; the sledges were hard to manoeuvre, and brakes were added to the runners to enable rapid stops when crevasses were encountered.\n\nOn 7 January, the party reached the first of their depots on the Barrier. Amundsen now felt their pace could be increased, and the men adopted a routine of travelling , stopping for six hours, then resuming the march. Under this regime they covered around a day, and on 25 January, at 4 am, they reached Framheim. Of the 52 dogs that had started in October, 11 had survived, pulling 2 sledges. The journey to the pole and back had taken 99 days—10 fewer than scheduled—and they had covered about .\n\nOn his return to Framheim, Amundsen lost no time in winding up the expedition. After a farewell dinner in the hut, the party loaded the surviving dogs and the more valuable equipment aboard \"Fram\", which departed the Bay of Whales late on 30 January 1912. The destination was Hobart in Tasmania. During the five-week voyage Amundsen prepared his telegrams and drafted the first report that he would give to the press. On 7 March, \"Fram\" reached Hobart, where Amundsen quickly learned there was as yet no news from Scott. He immediately sent telegrams to his brother Leon, to Nansen and to King Haakon, briefly informing them of his success. The next day he cabled the first full account of the story to London's \"Daily Chronicle\", to which he had sold exclusive rights. \"Fram\" remained in Hobart for two weeks; while there she was joined by Douglas Mawson's ship \"Aurora\", which was in service with the Australasian Antarctic Expedition. Amundsen presented them with a gift of his 11 surviving dogs.\n\nOn 8 November 1911, Prestrud, Stubberud and Johansen had departed for King Edward VII Land. The search for the point at which the solid ice of the Barrier became ice-covered land proved difficult. On 1 December the party had their first sighting of what was indubitably dry land, a nunatak which had been recorded by Scott during the \"Discovery\" expedition in 1902. After reaching this point they collected geological specimens and samples of mosses, and briefly explored their surroundings before returning to Framheim on 16 December. They were the first men to set foot on King Edward VII Land.\n\nAfter leaving the Bay of Whales on 15 February 1911, \"Fram\" sailed for Buenos Aires where she arrived on 17 April. Here, Nilsen learned that the expedition's funds were exhausted; a sum supposedly set aside for the ship's needs had not materialised. Fortunately, Amundsen's friend Don Pedro Christopherson was at hand to fulfil his earlier promises to provide supplies and fuel. \"Fram\" departed in June for an oceanographic cruise between South America and Africa, which occupied the next three months. The ship returned to Buenos Aires in September for final refitting and re-provisioning, before sailing south on 5 October. Strong winds and stormy seas prolonged the voyage, but the ship arrived at the Bay of Whales on 9 January 1912. On 17 January the men in Framheim were surprised by the appearance of a second ship; it was \"Kainan Maru\", carrying the Japanese Antarctic Expedition led by Nobu Shirase. Communication between the two expeditions was limited by language difficulties, though the Norwegians gathered that the Japanese were heading for King Edward VII Land. \"Kainan Maru\" departed the next day, and on 26 January she landed a party on King Edward VII Land. This was the first landing on this shore from the sea; attempts by \"Discovery\" (1902), \"Nimrod\" (1908) and \"Terra Nova\" (1911) had all failed.\n\nIn Hobart, Amundsen received congratulatory telegrams from, among others, former US President Theodore Roosevelt and King George V of the United Kingdom. The king expressed particular pleasure that Amundsen's first port of call on his return had been on soil of the British Empire. In Norway, which only six years earlier had become an independent country after 500 years of Danish and Swedish supremacy, the news was proclaimed in banner headlines, and the national flag was flown throughout the country. All the expedition's participants received the Norwegian South Pole medal (\"Sydpolsmedaljen\"), established by King Haakon to commemorate the expedition. However, Amundsen's biographer Roland Huntford refers to \"the chill underneath the cheers\"; there remained a residue of unease over Amundsen's tactics. One Norwegian newspaper expressed relief that Amundsen had found a new route, and had not intruded on Scott's path from McMurdo Sound.\n\nIn Britain, press reaction to Amundsen's victory was restrained but generally positive. Apart from the enthusiastic reports in the \"Daily Chronicle\" and the \"Illustrated London News\"—which each had a financial stake in Amundsen's success—the \"Manchester Guardian\" remarked that any cause for reproach was wiped out by the Norwegians' courage and determination. Readers of \"Young England\" were exhorted not to grudge \"the brave Norseman\" the honour he had earned, and \"The Boy's Own Paper\" suggested that every British boy should read Amundsen's expedition account. \"The Times\" correspondent offered a mild rebuke to Amundsen for his failure to inform Scott until it was too late for the latter to respond, \"all the more unnecessary, for no one would have welcomed co-operation in the work of South Polar exploration more than Captain Scott ... Still, no one who knows Captain Amundsen can have any doubt of his integrity, and since he states he has reached the Pole we are bound to believe him\".\n\nSenior figures at the RGS expressed more hostile sentiments, at least privately. To them, Amundsen's feat was the result of \"a dirty trick\". Markham hinted that Amundsen's claim might be fraudulent: \"We must wait for the truth until the return of the \"Terra Nova\"\". When later in 1912 Amundsen addressed the RGS he felt slighted after Lord Curzon, the Society's president, jocularly called for \"three cheers for the dogs\". Shackleton did not join in denigrating Amundsen's victory, and called him \"perhaps the greatest polar explorer of today\". Before she heard the news of her husband's death, Kathleen Scott conceded that Amundsen's journey \"was a very fine feat ... in spite of one's irritation one has to admire it\".\n\nAmundsen left Hobart to undertake a lecture tour of Australia and New Zealand. He then went to Buenos Aires where he finished writing his expedition account. Back in Norway he supervised the publication of the book, then visited Britain before embarking on a long lecture tour of the United States. In February 1913, while in Madison, Wisconsin, he received the news that Scott and four comrades had reached the pole on 17 January 1912, but had all perished by 29 March, during their return journey. The bodies of Scott, Wilson and Bowers had been discovered in November 1912, after the end of the Antarctic winter. In his initial response, Amundsen called the news \"Horrible, horrible\". His more formal tribute followed: \"Captain Scott left a record, for honesty, for sincerity, for bravery, for everything that makes a man\".\n\nAccording to Huntford, the news of Scott's death meant that \"Amundsen the victor was eclipsed ... by Scott the martyr\". In the United Kingdom a myth quickly developed in which Scott was portrayed as one who had behaved nobly and played the game fairly. He had been defeated because, by contrast, Amundsen was a mere glory-seeker who had concealed his true intentions, had used dogs rather than relying on honest man-hauling and had slaughtered these same dogs for food. Furthermore, he was considered a \"professional\" which, in the mindset of upper-class Britain of that time, diminished anything he might have accomplished. This narrative was heavily reinforced with the publication of Scott's journals and his \"Message to the Public\". Huntford points out that \"[Scott's] literary talent was his trump. It was as if he had reached out from his buried tent and taken revenge.\" Even so, among explorers Amundsen's name continued to be respected. In his account of the \"Terra Nova\" expedition written a few years later, Scott's comrade Apsley Cherry-Garrard wrote that the primary reason for Amundsen's success was \"the very remarkable qualities of the man\", specifically his courage in choosing to discover a new route rather than follow the known path.\n\nThe outbreak of the First World War in 1914 delayed the start of Amundsen's northern polar drift—to which the South Pole expedition had been intended as a preliminary—until July 1918. He then set off in a specially-constructed vessel, \"Maud\", which remained in Arctic waters for the next seven years. The ship did not drift over the North Pole, although in the course of the expedition it became the second ship to traverse the North-East Passage. Amundsen left the expedition in 1923; the remaining years of his life were largely devoted to polar exploration by air. On 12 May 1926, aboard the airship \"Norge\" with Lincoln Ellsworth and Umberto Nobile, Amundsen flew over the North Pole. He and Wisting, also on the airship, were the first men to see both poles. In 1928, while attempting to rescue a later Nobile expedition, Amundsen disappeared with his aircraft in the seas between Norway and Spitsbergen.\n\nThe four men who had stood at the pole with Amundsen were all asked to accompany their leader on the \"Maud\" drift. Bjaaland and Hassel declined; neither participated in any further polar ventures. Helmer Hanssen and Wisting both joined \"Maud\"; the latter took over the leadership when Amundsen left the expedition. In 1936 Wisting captained \"Fram\" on the ship's final voyage to Oslo, where it became a museum. Johansen, who had been unable to settle back into normal life on his return from Antarctica, became withdrawn and uncommunicative. He refused to discuss his experiences or his dispute with Amundsen, and retreated into a life of depression and poverty. On 4 January 1913 he shot himself in his Oslo lodgings.\n\nThe Scott myth lasted until the final quarter of the 20th century, when it was replaced by one that characterised him as a \"heroic bungler\" whose failure was largely the result of his own mistakes. This portrayal, the cultural historian Stephanie Barczewski asserts, is as fallacious as the earlier one in which he was considered beyond criticism. In the early 21st century, writers have suggested more reasoned explanations for the Scott tragedy than his incompetence, and his reputation has to some extent been rescued. The renewed spotlight on Scott has also highlighted Amundsen's achievements: Barczewski writes that \"Amundsen and his men reached the pole due to a combination of superb planning, long experience with sledge-dogs and skis and impressive physical stamina\". In her account of Scott's expedition, Diana Preston is equally specific in identifying the basis of Amundsen's success. He was focused on the single goal of reaching the pole, whereas Scott had to reconcile the competing claims of geographical exploration and scientific knowledge. \"A practical and experienced professional, [Amundsen] planned carefully and applied all the lessons he had learned in the Arctic ... [H]e relied exclusively on the well-tried means of transport and unsentimentally exploited their food potential. He was similarly efficient and unsentimental in his management of his men\". The United States' scientific base at the South Pole, founded in 1957, is named the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station, to honour the memories of both polar pioneers.\n\nIn a paper published 100 years after the Amundsen expedition, researchers claimed that the tent and flags are buried under of ice and about a minute of latitude north of the South Pole, or about one nautical mile. Scott's party was the last to see the tent, which they found on 18 January 1912. Henry Robertson Bowers took a photo of the tent, but died returning from the Pole.\n\nNotes\nReferences\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4847305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4847305", "title": "Annals of Tigernach", "text": "Annals of Tigernach\n\nThe Annals of Tigernach (abbr. AT) is a chronicle probably originating in Clonmacnoise, Ireland. The language is a mixture of Latin and Old and Middle Irish.\n\nMany of the pre-historic entries come from the 12th-century MS, Rawlinson B 502. However, the real importance of the chronicle is for the period 489-766, 973–1003 and 1018–1178. These three fragments survive from the 14th-century MS Rawlinson B 488. The coverage of the period 766 to 973 is lost, but is thought to survive in abbreviated form in the \"Chronicon Scottorum\" (abbr. CT). The latter is defective for the period 718 to 804, but as much of its content is derived from the hypothetical \"Chronicle of Ireland\" (itself partly derived from the \"Iona Chronicle\"), of which the \"Annals of Ulster\" (abbr. AU) and \"Annals of Inisfallen\" (abbr. AI) are also derived, we have some idea of what the entries contained. Kathleen Hughes postulates that AU and AT diverged from the \"Chronicle of Ireland\" sometime before the year 913.\n\nThe chronicle owes its modern name to Tigernach Ua Braín (d. 1088), abbot of Clonmacnoise, but this does not mean that he was also its author. A note added to the entry for 1088, the year of his death, in Rawlinson B 488 states that the text was written by Tigernach up to that point. If he was not merely the scribe of the original text copied by the 14th-century scribe, it may mean that he was one of the annalists responsible for the work.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1837830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1837830", "title": "Apocope", "text": "Apocope\n\nIn phonology, apocope () is the loss (elision) of one or more sounds from the end of a word, especially the loss of an unstressed vowel.\n\n\"Apocope\" comes from the Greek () from () \"cutting off\", from () \"away from\" and () \"to cut\".\n\nIn historical linguistics, \"apocope\" is often the loss of an unstressed vowel.\n\n\n\nIn Estonian and the Sami languages, apocopes explain the forms of grammatical cases. For example, a nominative is described as having apocope of the final vowel, but the genitive does not. Throughout its history, however, the genitive case marker has also undergone apocope: Estonian (\"a city\") and (\"of a city\") are derived from and respectively, as can still be seen in the corresponding Finnish word. In the genitive form, the final , while it was being deleted, blocked the loss of . In colloquial Finnish, the final vowel is sometimes omitted from case markers.\n\nSome languages have apocopations that are internalized as mandatory forms. In Spanish and Italian, for example, some adjectives that come before the noun lose the final vowel or syllable if they precede a noun (mainly) in the masculine singular form. In Spanish, some adverbs and cardinal and ordinal numbers have apocopations as well.\n\n\nVarious numerous sorts of informal abbreviations might be classed as apocope:\n\nFor a list of similar apocopations in the English language, see List of English apocopations.\n\nDiminutives in Australian English lists many apocopations.\n\nThe process is also linguistically subsumed under one called \"clipping\", or \"truncation\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2738476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2738476", "title": "Audubon Nature Institute", "text": "Audubon Nature Institute\n\nThe Audubon Nature Institute is a family of museums and parks dedicated to nature and based in New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\nIt consists of the Audubon Zoo, Aquarium of the Americas, Audubon Louisiana Nature Center, Audubon Park, Woldenberg Riverfront Park, Freeport-McMoRan Audubon Species Survival Center, Entergy IMAX Theatre, Audubon Center for Research of Endangered Species (ACRES), Audubon Wilderness Park, and the Audubon Insectarium.\n\nThe Audubon family of nature sites and facilities began with Audubon Park – once home to Native Americans – and later, to New Orleans' first mayor, Étienne de Boré. He founded the nation's first commercial sugar plantation here, when New Orleans was still part of Spanish colonial Louisiana; and developed its first granulated sugar through a process invented by Norbert Rillieux, a local free man of color.\n\nThe land did not fall into public hands until 1850, when a philanthropist willed it to the city. During the US Civil War, the location alternately hosted a Confederate military camp and a Union hospital. In 1866, it was the activation site for the 9th Cavalry Regiment, the \"Buffalo Soldiers,\" whose defense of the United States' western frontier made an indelible mark on America's African-American heritage.\n\nSite improvements made for the World's Industrial and Cotton Centennial Exposition of 1884 (Louisiana's first World's Fair) laid the foundation for an urban park. The city had designated the land for this purpose in 1871; and in 1886, city planners changed the park's name from Upper City Park to Audubon Park. This was in tribute to artist/naturalist John James Audubon who painted many of his famed \"Birds of America\" in Louisiana.\n\nA governing board was appointed by the city in 1894 to find the best way to develop the land; and by the turn of the century, development had been entrusted to landscape architect John Charles Olmsted. Olmsted's family firm had risen to prominence for its design of New York City's Central Park, and New Orleanians soon watched their own scenic retreat materialize from Louisiana swamp land.\n\nThe Audubon Commission was established by State Act in 1914 to maintain and develop Audubon Park. A flight cage was added to the park in 1916, and its popularity launched the community's call for a full-scale zoo. Community leaders united as the New Orleans Zoological Society, and (in a tradition carried on today) private donations soon funded a monkey cage, a mammal cage and a deer paddock. The first elephant, purchased by Louisiana schoolchildren, arrived in 1924. An aquarium and a colonnaded sea lion pool fueled the momentum, and by 1929, the collection boasted hundreds of animals.\n\nWhen the Depression of the 1930s shut down private donations, the city's hope for a zoo was kept alive by the Works Progress Administration (WPA). This federal agency funded construction of new zoo buildings, and in 1938, a $50,000 bequest from local benefactor Valentine Merz enabled the opening of the Merz Memorial Zoo.\n\nExpensive to maintain and operate, the Merz facility held its own until the 1950s. Deterioration followed as city appropriations dwindled, private donations dried up and public interest waned. There were a few bright moments (including the 1956 arrival of the first endangered whooping crane hatched in a zoo), but times were mostly bad. Blasted by the media as an animal \"ghetto\" in 1958 and urged to \"clean up or close up\" by the Humane Society of the United States in 1970, the Zoo—now called Audubon Zoo—begged recovery.\n\nRecovery finally came through the efforts of devoted community volunteers, and a remarkable public/private collaboration through the Audubon Commission. In 1972 the Commission spearheaded passage of a special referendum which generated nearly $2 million in bonds to finance the beginning of the Zoo's restoration. The volunteers formally rallied as Friends of the Zoo, and in 1973, Ron Forman—the City Hall Liaison for Audubon Park—came on board with a grand vision that evolved into a new master plan for the Zoo. Forman and the Audubon Commission expanded the Zoo to its current 58 acres, allowing for sweeping natural habitats that mirrored wild environments: the African Savanna, North American Grasslands and the South American Pampas. Other new adventures included a Children's Zoo and a World of Primates exhibit. Audubon Zoo's Phoenix-like rise led to accreditation from the American Zoo and Aquarium Association in 1981. Industry peers were further impressed by the 1984 debut of the Louisiana Swamp Exhibit. Its unprecedented exhibit style not only displayed native animals in a stunningly realistic environment, it used cultural elements to capture the lifestyle of the Cajun people who have endeared Louisiana's swamplands to the world.\n\nAudubon's incredible turnaround set a new benchmark for zoo exhibits—and New Orleans success stories. Most importantly, the Zoo's rebirth firmly anchored Audubon among the nation's top-rated zoological parks and inspired support for future developments that would benefit the city culturally—and economically. By the mid-1980s, Audubon was lobbying for an exciting new educational resource that would highlight aquatic habitats while reintroducing New Orleanians to their own, legendary Mississippi River. Where decaying warehouses blocked public access to the river's banks, Ron Forman, his team, and their supporters envisioned a lush community park with a sparkling centerpiece: Audubon Aquarium of the Americas.\n\nVision became reality as local citizens overwhelming approved a millage to service $25 million in bonds to fund construction of the Aquarium and Woldenberg Riverfront Park. The project not only set a new, broader course for Audubon. It promised the city a much-needed family attraction that could drive its tourism industry to new heights.\n\nWoldenberg Park opened in 1989, the same year the Friends of the Zoo evolved into Audubon Nature Institute. The Aquarium followed in 1990, drawing huge crowds for its Labor Day opening. Four months later, the facility had already exceeded its first-year attendance projections. And Audubon Nature Institute was ready, once again, to leverage its success for new achievements.\n\nIn the next decade, Audubon Nature Institute adopted an ambitious new mission incorporating wildlife conservation, science education, and family entertainment. New ways to captivate and educate visitors emerged. The Aquarium expanded into a new wing housing Entergy IMAX® Theatre and a Changing Exhibits Gallery, while Woldenberg Park also extended its borders. The Zoo 2000 master plan saw completion through the addition of the CNG (now Dominion) Learning Center; engaging new exhibits (e.g. Komodo dragons and Jaguar Jungle); the state-of-the-art Columbia Animal Healthcare Center; and a grand new entrance befitting a world-class zoo.\n\nAudubon Louisiana Nature Center joined the growing family in a 1994 merger and later developed new educational programs for Audubon Wilderness Park, a private West Bank preserve which would welcome schoolchildren and other scheduled groups to discover native animals and habitats.\n\nThrough each new development, the family birthplace—Audubon Park—has endured as a much-loved community resource that combines habitat preservation with human pastimes. The extensive 2002 renovation of its historic Golf Course shaped beautiful new vistas enjoyed by all park users who, like generations before them, embrace the site as a center of New Orleans life.\n\nInnovation remained a guiding force as Audubon Nature Institute sought to grow its commitment to wildlife conservation—on a global scale. With successful breeding programs already in place at the Zoo and the Aquarium, Audubon addressed the critical need for additional population management space with the 1993 opening of Freeport-McMoRan Audubon Species Survival Center. Unique in the world, the campus combines research laboratories with acres of pristine natural habitat where rare and endangered animals can roam and reproduce. Exotic wildcats, Mississippi sandhill cranes, whooping cranes, saddlebill storks, and other vanishing animals find sanctuary and flourish on these grounds, while scientists on-site at Audubon Center for Research of Endangered Species wield assisted reproduction technologies in the war against wildlife extinction.\n\nEmploying vital partnerships with universities, government agencies and other conservation-dedicated organizations, the Research Center team continues to earn international renown through amazing achievements. These include the world's first African wildcat clones; the first caracal cat created from a frozen-thawed embryo; the first African serval wildcat born as a result of in vitro fertilization; and a \"Frozen Zoo,\" which preserves the genetic material of hundreds of diminishing animal species—ensuring their survival in the future.\n\nAudubon Nature Institute added an exciting new branch to the family tree on June 13, 2008—Audubon Butterfly Garden and Insectarium. Located in the historic U.S. Custom House in downtown New Orleans, the Butterfly Garden and Insectarium was the first major new attraction to open in the city since Hurricane Katrina.\n\nThe Butterfly Garden and Insectarium celebrates the world of bugs with 13 gallery rooms containing more than 70 live animal enclosures, 30 mounted specimen cases and a multi-sensory immersive theater experience. There are about 100 live arthropod species throughout as well as a variety of fish. Visitors can experience live insect encounters, discover cultural aspects of insects, sample exotic insect cuisine, shrink in size to see the world from a bug's perspective, and enjoy the tranquility of a Japanese garden while watching hundreds of butterflies flit about.\n\nThis one-of-a-kind interactive experience is another \"living classroom\" designed to show how human lives are affected by nature—and what we all stand to lose without careful stewardship of its every, treasured resource.\n\nConstantly attuned to local needs, Audubon Nature Institute shapes its myriad programs to benefit our community at all levels, from providing much-needed educational resources to nurturing economic development.\n\nAudubon educators collaborate with public school teachers and administrators to help fill a science education void created by funding shortfalls. Afterschool programs, teacher training sessions, field trip enrichment programs and family learning opportunities are staged at all of Audubon's public facilities, including the Zoo's Jeri and Robert Nims Community Center. Outreach vehicles, learning kits, and other initiatives extend Audubon's teaching arm directly into area classrooms—programs like the Internet-based WILD-LAB curriculum or Coast to Classroom widen that reach still more.\n\nEnsuring that all community members enjoy access to Audubon Nature Institute is an ongoing priority achieved through summer discounts made available to students in financially disadvantaged schools; minority hiring initiatives; vendor policies that ensure opportunities for Economically Disadvantaged Businesses (EDB); and celebration of the city's great cultural diversity through such Audubon-hosted events as Soul Fest, Black History Month activities and the Asian Pacific-American Festival.\n\nThe Audubon Nature Institute continues to play a vital role in the local economy as well. With more than $250 million in capital investments, a $40 million annual budget, a workforce of more than 600 employees, and the generation of $19 million in local and state sales taxes each year, Audubon has an annual economic impact of $330 million. This is an amazing return on investments made in the Audubon vision by generations of supporters—and a remarkable accomplishment for an organization that, unlike its peers, receives little or no city or state funding for day-to-day operations.\n\nThe 2005 Hurricane Katrina caused substantial physical destruction, wiped out all Audubon operating revenues and forced the layoff of nearly 600 employees. Nonetheless, Aquarium staff remained at their posts throughout the storm, as well as the subsequent flooding, doing what they could for the animals in their charge.\n\nThe institute was the executive producer of \"Hurricane on the Bayou\", an IMAX film released on the anniversary of Hurricane Katrina's landfall in 2006.\n\nThe institute is no longer a part of the National Wetlands Coalition, but it is a \"cooperating organization\" with America's Wetland Campaign, which is sponsored by British Gas, Citgo, ConocoPhillips, Shell Oil and other leading energy companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "21592354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21592354", "title": "August Frank memorandum", "text": "August Frank memorandum\n\nThe August Frank memorandum of 26 September 1942 was a directive from SS Lieutenant General (\"Obergruppenführer\") August Frank of the SS concentration camp administration department (SS-WVHA). The memorandum provides a measure of the detailed planning that Frank and other Nazis put into the carrying out of the Holocaust. It includes instructions as to the disposition of postage stamp collections and underwear of the murdered Jews. It is clear that the Nazis were intent in removing everything of value from their victims.\n\nThe memorandum contains an instruction that the yellow stars that the Nazis forced Jews to wear on their clothing were to be removed before the clothing was redistributed to ethnic Germans whom the Nazis were resettling into occupied Poland. This memorandum, when it came to light after the war, played a key role in refuting Frank's claims that he had no knowledge that Jews were being murdered en masse in the extermination camps of Operation \"Reinhard\". It is also notable as an example of the use of the Nazi euphemism \"evacuation\" of the Jews, which meant their systematic murder.\n\nThe top secret memorandum, printed in multiple copies, was sent to the Chief of the SS Garrison Administration Lublin, and to the Chief of Administration Concentration Camp Auschwitz among others. English translation, provided by the Nuremberg Military Tribunal during the Trials of War Criminals: \n\n"}
{"id": "30616332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30616332", "title": "BFI Film &amp; TV Database", "text": "BFI Film &amp; TV Database\n\nThe BFI Film & TV Database (ftvdb) is an online database created by the British Film Institute containing information related to movies, television shows, actors, production crew personnel, video games and fictional characters featured in visual entertainment media, from the UK. It was previously featured on a BFI website under this name, but on 26 June 2014, every page was changed to redirect to listings on the BFI's main site.\n"}
{"id": "42890663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42890663", "title": "BIBFRAME", "text": "BIBFRAME\n\nBIBFRAME (Bibliographic Framework) is a data model for bibliographic description. BIBFRAME was designed to replace the MARC standards, and to use linked data principles to make bibliographic data more useful both within and outside the library community.\n\nThe MARC Standards, which BIBFRAME seeks to replace, were developed by Henriette Avram at the US Library of Congress during the 1960s. By 1971, MARC formats had become the national standard for dissemination of bibliographic data in the United States, and the international standard by 1973.\n\nIn a provocatively titled 2002 article, library technologist Roy Tennant argued that \"MARC Must Die\", noting that the standard was old; used only within the library community; and designed to be a display, rather than a storage or retrieval format. A 2008 report from the Library of Congress wrote that MARC is \"based on forty-year old techniques for data management and is out of step with programming styles of today.\"\n\nIn 2012, the Library of Congress announced that it had contracted with Zepheira, a data management company, to develop a linked data alternative to MARC. Later that year, the library announced a new model called MARC Resources (MARCR). That November, the library released a more complete draft of the model, renamed BIBFRAME. \n\nThe Library of Congress released version 2.0 of BIBFRAME in 2016.\n\nBIBFRAME is expressed in RDF and based on three categories of abstraction (work, instance, item), with three additional classes (agent, subject, event) that relate to the core categories. While the \"work\" entity in BIBFRAME may be \"considered as the union of the disjoint \"work\" and \"expression\" entities\" in IFLA's Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR) entity relationship model, BIBFRAME's \"instance\" entity is analogous to the FRBR \"manifestation\" entity. This represents an apparent break with FRBR and the FRBR-based Resource Description and Access (RDA) cataloging code. However, the original BIBFRAME model argues that the new model \"can reflect the FRBR relationships in terms of a graph rather than as hierarchical relationships, after applying a reductionist technique.\" Since both FRBR and BIBFRAME have been expressed in RDF, interoperability between the two models is technically possible.\n\nWhile the BIBFRAME model currently includes a \"serial\" entity, there are still a number of issues to be addressed before the model can be used for serials cataloging. BIBFRAME lacks several serials-related data fields available in MARC.\n\nA 2014 report was very positive on BIBFRAME's suitability for describing audio and video resources. However, the report also expressed some concern about the high-level \"Work\" entity, which is unsuitable for modeling certain audio resources.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11991569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11991569", "title": "Bible Dictionary (LDS Church)", "text": "Bible Dictionary (LDS Church)\n\nBible Dictionary is an official publication of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). Since 1979, \"Bible Dictionary\" has been published as an appendix to most copies of the King James Version (KJV) of the Bible printed by the LDS Church. The dictionary contains 1285 entries on 196 pages. The publication states that it was \"designed to provide teachers and students with a concise collection of definitions and explanations of items that are mentioned in or are otherwise associated with the Bible.\"\n\nThe LDS \"Bible Dictionary\" was created in the 1970s by the Scriptures Publications Committee of the LDS Church. This committee was chaired by Thomas S. Monson, then a member of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles. The committee delegated the responsibility of creating an LDS bible dictionary to Robert J. Matthews, a Brigham Young University Professor of Ancient Scripture. Matthews gained permission from Cambridge University Press to use their bible dictionary as the template for the LDS version.\n\nMatthews adjusted many of the entries to reflect LDS modifications of traditional Christian beliefs and also added a number of entries to address doctrines taught exclusively by the LDS Church. However, the majority of the content of the \"Bible Dictionary\" is identical to the Cambridge publication. The secretary of the committee was William James Mortimer.\n\nThe LDS \"Bible Dictionary\" is published in all English-language versions of the Bible printed by the church except for of the barebones KJV Bible distributed free of charge by Mormon missionaries. In other LDS-printed Bibles, it is found on pages 599 to 793 of the appendix materials, immediately following the Topical Guide and immediately preceding excerpts from the Joseph Smith Translation of the Bible. The LDS Church provides the complete contents of the Bible Dictionary online.\n\nDespite being packaged with the LDS publication of the Bible, the \"Bible Dictionary\" is not part of the LDS Church's open canon of scripture. Its preface states, \"It is not intended as an official or revealed endorsement by the Church of the doctrinal, historical, cultural, and other matters set forth.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37115404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37115404", "title": "Bishop's Tower", "text": "Bishop's Tower\n\nThe Bishop's Tower (), or Bishop's Castle (\"\"), is an archaeological site in the historic city center of Hamburg, Germany, containing the oldest known remains of a stone building in the city. The site includes the foundations of a circular tower and a well, originally believed to represent the 11th-century stone residence of Archbishop Adalbrand of Bremen. Later finds, however, disproved this theory and it is now considered to be part of a 12th-century defensive structure.\n\nThe tower's foundations lie under a commercial building at the corner of ' and ' in the immediate vicinity of St. Peter's Church. The area is a light geest, where the first settlement of Hamburg has been documented. The base of the tower was discovered on 30 August 1962 during demolition work for the St. Peter's Community Center. Initially it was assumed that displaced boulders from nearby \" had been found, which is believed to be the oldest street of the city of Hamburg, and an ancient trade route. But after further excavation the remaining foundations of the tower were uncovered.\n\nUntil the 2008 excavations, it was thought to be the stone house of the Archbishop Adalbrand, built as a round tower and mentioned in the Hamburg church history of 1074 by Adam of Bremen. Further construction on St. Peter's Community Center enabled new studies of the historic area, leading to the discovery that the tower's foundation coincided with the creation of a moat to the west, located right in front of the \", a timber soil palisade known as the first fortification of Hamburg. With this information the dating was corrected to the 12th century. A possible interpretation is that the tower represents a side gate or a part of the city gate.\n\nThe tower's foundation is a stone circle of boulders with an outer diameter of and an inner diameter of . The majority of these stones have a diameter of or more. On the west side was a water well with a depth of , a diameter of , and was made of field stones roughly in diameter.\n\nA showroom was built for the tower's foundations and other artifacts in early 1969 in the basement of the newly completed community center (and later commercial building). After demolition in 2008 for the construction of the building, the showroom was redesigned as a branch of the Hamburg Archaeological Museum. It is now freely accessible to visitors through a commercial bakery on the ground floor, which has also set up a café amidst the tower's foundations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58398752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58398752", "title": "Collection of funerary steles in the National Museum of Brazil", "text": "Collection of funerary steles in the National Museum of Brazil\n\nThe National Museum of Brazil collections include an exhibition of funerary steles from Ancient Egypt.\n\nThe current status of the collection is unknown after the fire that destroyed the museum in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "10052952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10052952", "title": "Comparison of notetaking software", "text": "Comparison of notetaking software\n\nThe tables below compare features of notable note-taking software.\n\n"}
{"id": "964167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=964167", "title": "DSLReports", "text": "DSLReports\n\nDSLReports is a North American-oriented broadband information and review site based in New York City. The site's main focus is on internet, phone, cable TV, fiber optics, and wireless services in the United States and Canada, as well as other countries (United Kingdom and Australia).\n\nDSLReports was created by Justin Beech in June 1999. According to Alexa's page ranking system and the WHOIS, dslreports.com's domain URL was registered on May 28, 1999.\n\nIn the 2000s, DSLReports was concurrently branded as \"BroadbandReports.com,\" a domain that now redirects to dslreports.com.\n\nOver a four-hour period on April 27, 2011 an automated SQL Injection attack occurred on the DSLReports website. The attack was able to extract 8% of the site's username/password pairs, which amounted to approximately 8,000 of the 9,000 active accounts and 90,000 old or inactive accounts created during the site's 10-year history. Once the intrusion was detected, stopped and the extent of the compromised accounts had been assessed, passwords for those accounts were automatically reset.\n\nDSLReports rates and reviews cable, DSL and fiber optic internet services from providers all over North America. The site also runs support and discussion forums and offers online tools for testing internet connection.\n\nDSLReports allows its users to submit reviews of their Internet service provider (ISP), Web hosting service, digital phone service (VOIP), and more. Users may also read reviews written by others. Many large ISPs have over a thousand reviews on the site. Reviews may be filtered for the user's location and/or connectivity preference.\n\nThe site is a source of internet related news and opinion, and occasionally breaks stories about broadband internet service providers, such as Time Warner Cable's 2008 decision to test consumption-based billing with subscribers. That same year, when Charter Communications began sending letters to high-speed internet customers regarding a new website tracking policy, reports of the letters first appeared on DSLReports. DSLReport's editors post Internet-related news and opinion items on the site's front page throughout the day. Common topics of news items and features include wireless technologies, peer-to-peer file sharing, upgrades and new offerings from ISPs, legal issues, regulatory issues, and security issues.\n\nDSLReports is reported to have the most comprehensive package of internet and connection testing tools available.\n\nThe DSLReports speed test claims to be the best speed test and the first popular speed test. The speed test uses HTML5.\n\nDSLReports does have a ping and jitter test.\n\nOther tools include stream tests, line monitoring, tweak testing, packet loss testing, and many other tools. Some of these services are provided free of charge, but others require the user to purchase \"tool points\", which are approximately $1.\n\nDSLReports operates over 200 forums, many of which focus on Internet and computer-related topics. Other forums are dedicated to general conversation, political discussions, do-it-yourself projects or regional discussions. There are over a 1.8 million total registered users on the DSLReports forums. A discussion forum is automatically created for every news and opinion article posted on the front page, which allows members to discuss the article in question. Although membership is free, the forum community allows for anonymous posting so the information or source in [anonymous] posts may be questionable as compared to posts made by actual frequent members of the site.\n\nRobb Topolski, a software tester whose findings and subsequent political activities have contributed to the movement for net neutrality has contributed to the site.\n\nDSLReports has been written about or had their reports featured in \"CNN\", \"USA Today\", \"Forbes\", \"NBC News\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The New York Times\" and \"Ars Technica\", among others.\n\nThe site has been described by \"The Washington Post\" as a \"comprehensive reference\" for internet services. Discussion topics on the DSLReports frequently generate thousands of comments. The \"Associated Press\" reported that over 5,000 messages were posted to forum discussing a potential data cap imposed upon Comcast Corp. customers in 2003.\n\n\"CNN\" has rated DSLReports as one of the best free online services.\n"}
{"id": "6979845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6979845", "title": "Domen, Norway", "text": "Domen, Norway\n\nDomen is a mountain on the Varanger Peninsula in eastern Finnmark county, Norway. The tall mountain is located near the coast between the small fishing village Kiberg and the island of Vardøya. Domen is bare and flat-topped, with a steep slope towards the Barents Sea below. The European route E75 highway which runs along the western side of the mountain from Svartnes to Kiberg. The road is often closed in the winter due to bad weather.\n\nThe Old Norse name of the Arctic Sea was \"Dumbshaf\". This sea (\"haf\") was named after the mountain \"Dumbr\" (an old form of \"Domen\"). The name is probably related to the English word \"dumb\", but in what meaning is unclear.\n\nDomen is often associated with the witch trials in Finnmark during the 17th century. Vardø was the site of approximately 70 witch trials between 1601 and 1663. This was a large number, since there were only a couple of hundred inhabitants in the area at that time.\n\nAccording to folklore, Vardø and Domen became infamous as \"the end of the world\", Ultima Thule and the entrance to Hell was said to be somewhere around Domen or Vardø, and so witches flew to Domen to meet the devil for sabbath.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9609482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9609482", "title": "ESDS International", "text": "ESDS International\n\nESDS International was a Jisc/ESRC funded service which provided the UK academic community with free online access to the major databanks produced by international governmental organisations such as the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and the United Nations. The service also supported the use of these databanks in teaching and research through the provision of a helpdesk for user queries, comprehensive documentation and training. \n\nESDS International also provided access to a range of international survey datasets including the European Social Survey and Eurobarometer. \n\nThe service aimed to promote and facilitate increased and more effective use of international datasets in research, learning and teaching across a range of disciplines. \n\nDatabases hosted by ESDS International included the major statistical publications of: \n\n\nIn July 2012, the Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) announced that all of ESDS would become part of the UK Data Service, which was established as of October 1, 2012 - see http://www.esrc.ac.uk/research/our-research/uk-data-service/.\n\n"}
{"id": "17867131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17867131", "title": "Encyclopedia of American Religions", "text": "Encyclopedia of American Religions\n\nEncyclopedia of American Religions, renamed Melton's Encyclopedia of American Religions in the eighth edition, is a reference book by J. Gordon Melton first published in 1978, by Consortium Books, A McGrath publishing company. It is currently in its ninth edition and has become a standard reference work in the study of religion in the United States.\n\n\n[Category:20th-century encyclopedias]]\n"}
{"id": "27861328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27861328", "title": "Encyclopedia of Recorded Sound", "text": "Encyclopedia of Recorded Sound\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Recorded Sound is a reference work which describes the history of sound recordings, from the time of Thomas Edison onwards.\n"}
{"id": "52862465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52862465", "title": "Gilles Pudlowski", "text": "Gilles Pudlowski\n\nGilles Pudlowski (born 15 November 1950 in Metz, Moselle) is a French journalist, writer, literary and gastronomic critic. He writes the blog \"les Pieds dans le Plat\", writes for \"Saveurs\", \"Cuisine et Vins de France\" and \"Les Dernières Nouvelles d'Alsace\". He is also the author of the Pudlo guides.\n\nGilles Pudlowski is a writer and journalist, both a gastronomic and literary critic. He publishes the blog: les Pieds dans le Plat. \n\nAfter graduating from the Institut d'études politiques de Paris and a history degree, he made his debut at \"Le Quotidien de Paris\" founded by before joining \"Les Nouvelles littéraires\". Jean-François Kahn, who took up the latter magazine, entrusted him with responsibility for the literary pages and asked him to take charge also of the gastronomic chronicle.\n\nChristian Millau, who spotted him in 1979, offered him to collaborate with the Gault Millau, promising him a career of rigorous criticism in these terms: \"In this job, people know how to eat or write, rarely both, sometimes none of the two. If you can do both, you're sure to succeed\".\n\nHe latter wrote for \"Paris Match\", \"Cuisine et Vins de France\", (where he created the category of \"plates\", awarding one to three plates to good restaurants, the pot with good quality / price ratio and the broken plate, which will make much of his reputation as \"the Zorro of the critique\" at the disappointing tables). He has worked with \"Panorama du Médecin\", \"Parcours\", \"Le Figaro\", Cuisine TV, France Inter, \"Bon Voyage\", \"Air France Madame\".\nHis reputation is notably linked to the weekly \"Le Point\", of which he was the official columnist from 1986 to 2014. He was a senior reporter and was responsible for the pages of tourism and gastronomy, while actively collaborating on the literary section.\n\nFrom 1990 to 2016, Gilles Pudlowski gave a weekly column to \"Les Dernières Nouvelles d'Alsace\" and, from 1992 to 2015, to \"Le Républicain lorrain\", for, if he is Lorrain by birth, he is an Alsatian at heart.\n\nFor the magazines \"Saveurs et Cuisine et Vins de France\", he made major reports on the regions of France and portraits of the chefs in Europe and in the world. He also contributed to the magazine \"Service Littéraire\" of . Since 2016, he has been a member of the jury du prix du premier roman. \n\nAfter a few piecemeal trials (including several editions of \"52 week-ends autour de Paris\" or \"le Guide de l’Alsace heureuse\", he created, in 1989, his own \"global\" guide. It is first of all the Pudlowski Guide of the Gourmet Cities (Albin Michel) which obtained the Gutenberg of the practical book in 1990. The \"Pudlo Paris\" is published every year from 1990, like the \"Pudlo France\", since 2000, by Michel Lafon.\n\nGilles Pudlowski has also published \"Pudlos\" in pocket format devoted to Parisian bistros, Brittany, Alsace, Lorraine, Corsica and Luxembourg. Since 2007, the \"Pudlo Paris\" and the \"Pudlo France\" have been published in New York by the Little Book Room, editorial emanation of The New York Review of Books, which also published (in 2008) small Pudlos \"Britanny-Normandy\", \"Alsace\" and \"Provence Côte d'Azur\". The US press sees it as the \"best kept secret of French gourmets\" and in particular, like the New York Times, that \"his plates are more reliable than Michelin stars\".\n\nAs a confirmed writer, Gilles Pudlowski published autobiographical essays on the theme of attachment to France, such as \"Devoir de Français\", \"L’Amour du pays\" (Flammarion), crowned by the Prix Jacques Chardonne and the Prix Maurice Genevoix, but also \"Les Chemins de la Douce France\" (Plon) as well as a novel, \"Le Voyage de Clémence\" (Flammarion, 1987) and \"Le Dictionnaire amoureux de l'Alsace\" (Plon).\n\nHe is also responsible for the preface of the Larousse gastronomique (2007), literary anthologies (\"L'Année Poétique\", \"Le Goût de Strasbourg\"),art books (\"Les Grandes gueules\", \"Elles sont chefs\", \"Les Trésors gourmands de la France\", \"France Bistrots\", \"Les Plus belles tables de France\"), As well as a handbook of good manners: \"Comment être critique gastronomique et garder la ligne\", which he will update a few years later with \"À quoi sert vraiment un critique gastronomique\", which became the reference work on this domain.\n\nPudlowski won the prize La Mazille for lifetime achievement at the gourmet festival Périgueux in 1992 and the price Amunátegui - Curnonsky, awarded by the (Professional Association of chroniclers and informants Gastronomy and wine]), in December 2008.\n\nPudlowski was awarded the second \"Prix des Écrivains gastronomes\" on 7 March 2015 for \"Le Tour de France Gourmand\" at .\n\nHis blog \"Les Pieds dans le plat\", obtained \"La Gastronomie Numérique\" award at \"Gastronomades 2015\".\n\n\nÉditions Michel Lafon\n\nFlammarion\n\nArmand Colin\n\nÉditions du Chêne\n\nGlénat Editions\n\nMercure de France\n\nÉditions Athéo\n\nMazarine/Fayard\n\nRamsay/Michel Lafon\n\nÉditions Jean-Paul Schortgen\n\nÉditions de la Renaissance du Livre\n\nÉditions du Rocher\n\nRobert Laffont\n\nPlon\n\nAlbin Michel\n\nArgentoratum\n\nBueb et Reumaux\n\nÉditions Saint-Germain-des-Prés\n\nFrançois Bourin\n\nPoche-DNA/Éditions de la Nuée bleue\n\nJC Lattès\n\nHologrammes\n\nÉditions Ouest-France\n\nA Little Book Room (New York)\n\nÉditions Alexandrines\n\nÉditions Gründ/Plon\nLe Dictionnaire Amoureux illustré de l'Alsace, 2016\n\nÉditions Steinkis/Incipit\nDans la tête de Pierre H, 2016\n\n"}
{"id": "2998055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998055", "title": "Google Base", "text": "Google Base\n\nGoogle Base was a database provided by Google into which any user can add almost any type of content, such as text, images, and structured information in formats such as XML, PDF, Excel, RTF, or WordPerfect. As of September 2010, the product has since been downgraded to Google Merchant Center. If Google finds it relevant, submitted content may appear on its shopping search engine, Google Maps or even the web search. The piece of content can then be labeled with attributes like the ingredients for a recipe or the camera model for stock photography. Because information about the service was leaked before public release, it generated much interest in the information technology community prior to release. Google subsequently responded on their blog with an official statement:\n\nFiles can be uploaded to the Google Base servers by browsing your computer or the web, by various FTP methods, or by API coding. Online tools are provided to view the number of downloads of the user's files, and other performance measures.\n\nOn December 17, 2010, it was announced that Google Base's API is deprecated in favor of a set of new APIs known as Google Shopping APIs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1224437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1224437", "title": "International Standard Bible Encyclopedia", "text": "International Standard Bible Encyclopedia\n\nThe International Standard Bible Encyclopedia refers to two different revisions of a Bible encyclopedia. The first version was published under the general editorship of the fundamentalist James Orr (1844–1913), among other objectives to counteract the impact of higher criticism.\n\nThe original encyclopedia was published by the Howard-Severance Co., Chicago, in 1915. It is in the public domain and can be found freely available at various sites. A revised version, edited by Geoffrey W. Bromiley, was published by Wm. B. Eerdmans Publishing Co. in 1989. It contains articles by nearly 200 evangelical scholars about archaeological discoveries, the language and literature of Bible lands, customs, family life, occupations, and the historical and religious environments of Bible people.\n\nWriting in a 1984 book review for \"The Churchman\", Stephen Motyer said the conservatism of the \"International Standard Bible Encyclopedia\" \"is that of broad, main-line evangelicalism, although it seems to be slightly more conservative than the work it replaces\". He also says it makes \"dogmatic use of the Bible\", and adds: \"sometimes it seems to go over the top somewhat\". However, he concludes \"The criticisms I have made do not, to my mind, qualify the great solid worth of this production...I...seriously commend this encyclopedia...\"\n\nThis list of contributors is taken from the Revised Edition. An asterisk (*) indicates that the person contributed an article to the 1915 edition that is still in the Revised Edition. New articles far outnumber older revised articles in the revised version. For some reason many contributors are listed more than once in the revised version. It is likely that the multiple listings is because of the scholar being at different institutions during the long process of revision. A scholar may have been employed at one school when they submitted one article in the beginning of the revision process and by the end they were employed at another school when they submitted their last article. The subject of the revision process and the rationale for retaining and updating some articles from the 1915 version is discussed in the preface and introduction of the revised version.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38177802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38177802", "title": "Kemp v Santam", "text": "Kemp v Santam\n\n\"Kemp v Santam Insurance Co Ltd and Another\" is an important case in the South African law of delict. It was heard in the Cape Provincial Division by Diemont J on 5 and 6 November, and 11 to 13 December 1974. Judgment was handed down on 12 February 1975. The plaintiff was represented by LA Rose-Innes, SC, and with him IG Farlam. His attorneys were Silberbauers. The defendant was represented by GD Griessel, and his attorneys were Jan S. de Villiers & Sons. Attorneys for the third party to the case were Truter & Lombard, and they were represented by Edwin A. Kellaway.\n\nThe case concerned an action for damages. Diemont J determined that, if part of the mechanism or the equipment or the accessories to a motor vehicle become detached while the vehicle is being driven and cause injury to a third party, the injury \"arises out of\" the driving of the vehicle, within the meaning of that phrase in section 11(1) of the Motor Vehicle Insurance Act.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25564081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25564081", "title": "Labour Party (Argentina)", "text": "Labour Party (Argentina)\n\nThe Labour Party () was a political party in Argentina.\n\nThe party was founded by Peronist trade union leaders at the end of October 1945. The party organization was built up around the Peronist unions, and most of its representatives in different elected offices had been recruited from the ranks of the trade union movements. The party was led by an Organizing Committee with 52 members. The party had little structure of its own, and its popularity was mainly dependent on being identified with Juan Perón. Luis Gay, of the telephone workers union, was the general secretary of the party. Another prominent trade union leader taking part in the founding of the party was Cipriano Reyes (a leader of the meat-packers union). Reyes became vice president of the party. The party published \"El Laborista\".\n\nJust a few months before the founding of the party, the British Labour Party had won a resounding election victory. The Argentinian party name was borrowed from the British party, and the Argentinian party organization was modelled after its British counterpart (with unions as an integral party organization).\n\nThe presidential and parliamentary elections held in February 1946 resulted in a major success for the Labour Party. The party was responsible for mobilizing most of the votes for Juan Perón. It also gained a majority in both chambers of parliament. The party maintained a stance of critical support to the government of Perón. The party called for nationalizations, social welfare, women's suffrage and land reform. Moreover, the party criticized limitations on the freedom of the press. Perón kept a certain distance from the Labour Party, favouring Radicals and dissident conservatives for the most important positions.\n\nIn mid-1946 Perón ordered that the three parties that had supported his candidacy be dissolved into a unity party, \"Partido Único de la Revolución\". The \"laboristas\" initially rejected the idea of a merger into the unity party (which in 1947 was renamed the Peronist Party). However, in July 1947 it decided to dissolve itself and called on its members to join the Peronist Party as its 'labour nucleus'. After the Labour Party had been disbanded, its former leaders (such as Reyes) suffered from government repression.\n\n"}
{"id": "55738904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55738904", "title": "List of highest grossing live-action/animated films", "text": "List of highest grossing live-action/animated films\n\nThe following is a list of the highest-grossing live-action/animated films, films that combine live action and animation characters. CGI characters are not counted as animation if the film tries to make them look real. Otherwise a large part of modern films with non-human characters would be included.\n\nAll of the films have had a theatrical run (including re-releases) since 1980, and films that have not played since then do not appear on the chart due to ticket-price inflation, population size and ticket purchasing trends not being considered.\n\n2006, 2010, 2011, and 2016 are the most represented years on the list, with four films each.\n\nAll of the films have had a theatrical run (including re-releases) since 1980, and films that have not played since then do not appear on the chart due to ticket-price inflation, population size and ticket purchasing trends not being considered.\n\nThe following chart is a list of the highest-grossing live-action/animated film franchises. The \"Alvin & the Chipmunks\" franchise is the most successful, with worldwide box office totals of nearly $1.4 billion.\nA given franchise needs to have at least 2 theatrically released films to be on this list. The \"Smurfs\" franchise has the highest per-film average, with nearly $455.7 million per film.\n\n"}
{"id": "1793651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1793651", "title": "Matthew Lesko", "text": "Matthew Lesko\n\nMatthew John Lesko (born May 11, 1943) is an American author known for his publications and infomercials on federal grant funding. He has written over twenty books instructing people how to get money from the United States government. Widely recognized for recording television commercials, infomercials, and interviews in colorful suits decorated with question marks, Lesko's signature fashion also extends into his daily attire and transportation, \nearning him the nickname Question Mark Guy.\n\nLesko grew up in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Lesko received his undergraduate degree from Marquette University in Milwaukee, then went to Vietnam as a navigator for the U.S. Navy. When Lesko returned he earned a master's degree in business administration (MBA) from American University in Washington, D.C.\n\nIn 1975, Lesko quit his job designing computerized information systems and co-founded Washington Researchers with his then-wife Leila K. Kight.\n\nAfter a slow start, Lesko hit upon the idea of sending out a professional newsletter telling people how to get free information. The newsletter started bringing in clients, and by 1979 Washington Researchers employed 30 people in its Washington, D.C. office.\n\nAs side lines of business, Lesko began publishing directories for those who preferred to do their own research, such as the \"Researcher's Guide to Washington\", and conducting seminars on the types of information then available from the government.\n\nLesko was able to interest publisher Viking in his idea to publish a directory of government information sources in 1980. That book, \"Getting Yours: The Complete Guide to Government Money\", was published by Viking's Penguin subsidiary in 1982.\n\nHe claims to have researched government grants for over 25 years.\n\nLesko lives in Kensington, Maryland, with his third wife Wendy Schaetzel Lesko and their two sons, Max and Morgan.\n\nCritics claim that Lesko is misleading in his advertisements. A 2004 report by the New York State Consumer Protection Board claimed that most of the grants mentioned in Lesko's books were actually public assistance programs that many people were not eligible for, and that Lesko misrepresented examples of people who had taken advantage of government programs.\n\n\"The New York Times\" criticized him for having implied a current association with the paper long after ending a 1992–1994 \"NYT\" column.\n\nIn 2005, Lesko was named #99 in Bernard Goldberg's book \"100 People Who Are Screwing Up America\" because, \"He is a symbol for self-centered free-riders.\"\n\nIn an interview with the \"Washington Post\" in July 2007, Lesko admitted having assembled his books from government guides to grants and loans: \"His business model is simple: 'I get stuff for free and I sell it for as much as I can get.'\"\n\n\nMatthew Lesko's company, Information USA, has published several reference books including:\n\nAll of his books claim to contain information about how to get free money from the United States government.\n\n"}
{"id": "24283852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24283852", "title": "Memory of the World Register – Africa", "text": "Memory of the World Register – Africa\n\nThe first inscriptions on the UNESCO Memory of the World Register were made in 1997. By creating a compendium of the world’s documentary heritage—manuscripts, oral traditions, audio-visual materials, library and archive holdings—the program aims to tap on its networks of experts to exchange information and raise resources for the preservation, digitization, and dissemination of documentary materials. As of 2013, 193 documentary heritages have been included in the Register, among them recordings of folk music, ancient languages and phonetics, aged remnants of religious and secular manuscripts, collective lifetime works of renowned giants of literature, science and music, copies of landmark motion pictures and short films, and accounts documenting changes in the world’s political, economic and social stage. Of these, 12 properties were nominated by countries from the region of Africa.\n\n\nA. Names and spellings provided are based on the official list released by the Memory of the World Programme.\n"}
{"id": "52664856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52664856", "title": "Microsoft Academic", "text": "Microsoft Academic\n\nMicrosoft Academic is a free public web search engine for academic publications and literature, developed by Microsoft Research. Re-launched in 2016, the tool features an entirely new data structure and search engine using semantic search technologies. It currently indexes over 375 million entities, 170 million of which are academic papers. The Academic Knowledge API offers information retrieval from the underlying database using REST endpoints for advanced research purposes.\n\nThe service replaces the earlier Microsoft research project, Microsoft Academic Search, which ended development in 2012.\n\nPreliminary reviews by bibliometricians suggest the new Microsoft Academic Search is a competitor to Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Scopus for academic research purposes as well as citation analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57114825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57114825", "title": "National Film Archive of Japan", "text": "National Film Archive of Japan\n\nThe is an independent administrative institution and one of Japan's six national museums of art, which specializes in preserving and exhibiting the film heritage of Japan. In its previous incarnation, it was the National Film Center, which was part of the National Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo. In April 2018, it became independent of the National Museum of Modern Art and was officially elevated to the rank of a national museum.\n\nThe NFAJ is located in Kyōbashi, Tokyo, and is Japan's only public institution devoted to cinema, holding about 40,000 films, and numerous other materials, in its collection. The Archive has film-related materials on permanent display; and it holds special screenings in its theaters. The NFAJ is a member of The International Federation of Film Archives. It preserves many important works of Japanese and world film history, including films designated as Important Cultural Properties of Japan like \"Momijigari\".\n\nThe NFAJ restored a Japanese animated film which had been first released in 1917—the oldest existing example of a Japanese animated film originally made for the cinema. The film, \"The Blunt Samurai Sword\" (\"Namakura-gatana\") is the first work of Jun'ichi Kōuchi, one of the founders of Japanese animated film. A rare surviving print was unexpectedly discovered in an antique market in Osaka. In the silent comedy, the animation tells the story of a samurai warrior who is tricked into buying a dull-edged sword. He tries to attack passers-by in an effort to test the sword's quality, but lower-class townspeople fight back and knock him down. The animated story lasts just two minutes. Although the ultimate status of the film remains uncertain, it was screened by NFC for the public in late April 2008. With the involvement of the NFAJ, the animated film became something more than an historical artifact—it also became an illustration of the progress film restoration has made over recent decades.\n\nThe National Film Archive collection includes original movie scripts (such as Akira Kurosawa's Rashomon, Yasujirō Ozu's Tokyo Story and Kenji Mizoguchi's Osaka Elegy), original movie posters - Godzilla, Rashomon, Tokyo Story, The Life of Oharu etc. - photos shot on the set, movie cameras and actors and actresses' personal effects (such as Kinuyo Tanaka's).\n\nThe NFAJ's Tokyo headquarters in the Kyōbashi building is a one-minute walk from Kyōbashi Station (Station G-10) on the Tokyo Metro Ginza Line. It is also a one-minute walk from Takarachō Station (Station A-12) on the Toei Asakusa Line. An NFAJ branch is located in the city of Sagamihara in neighboring Kanagawa Prefecture.\n"}
{"id": "46321437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46321437", "title": "Nike of Callimachus", "text": "Nike of Callimachus\n\nThe Nike of Callimachus () also known as \"The Dedication of Callimachus\", is a statue that the Athenians created in honor of the Callimachus.\n\nCallimachus was the Athenian polemarch at the Battle of Marathon at 490 BC. He had the last vote and voted in favour of a battle, when the 10 strategoi were split evenly on the matter.\n\nHe was killed at the battle and the Athenians erected the statue for him.\n\nThe statue was erected in a prominent spot near the northwest corner of the Parthenon (not the Parthenon that we can see today, but the previous temple which was destroyed by the Persians) on the Acropolis of Athens. The statue was severely damaged by the Persians a decade later (480 BC) when they conquered Athens. They burned and destroyed the city and its monuments, including the Nike of Callimachus (Perserschutt).\n\nThe statue depicts Nike (Victory), in the form of a draped woman with wings running right, on top of an inscribed Ionic column. Its height is 4.68 meters and was made of Parian or Pentelic marble. Some parts of the statue such as the head, the hands and more were never recovered after the damage.\n\nThe neck of the Nike has nine holes for metal jewelry, which has been lost. She probably held a caduceus in her hand.\n\nThe text of the inscription on the monument was carved in two lines. The monument is a rare example of a preserved dedicatory epigram, with its statue and base, from the late archaic period.\n\nOnly 35% of the original text is visible due to the destruction.\nThe text on the column is below (the brackets indicate text which is missing because of the destruction and has been restored by Catharine Keesling):\n\nOn October 26, 2010 after it was restored, it was displayed to the public for the first time as a complete monument at the Acropolis Museum. The statue has been affixed to a metal column that holds the various parts in place and is built so that additional fragments can be attached if they are found. According to the curator of the new Acropolis Museum, the monument has been reconstructed in a modern fashion using only the original shards in their correct positions, so that a visitor might be able to see the authentic version.\n\nThe unveiling of the Nike monument was among a series of events scheduled by the culture and tourism ministry of Greece to celebrate the 2,500th anniversary of the Battle of Marathon.\nDuring the unveiling of the statue the Greek minister stressed:\n\n“Today we are not unveiling the monument of just another heroic general but a monument to a democratic process that changed the course of history.\"\n\nHe also reminded the audience of the words that Miltiades said to Callimachus just before the polemarch cast his vote:\n\n“Everything now rests on you.”\n\nThe statue is on display in the Archaic Monuments’ section of the Acropolis Museum. In the Museum in front of the original statue there is also a small copy showing how the statue looked when it was whole and undamaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "15508563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15508563", "title": "OneMine", "text": "OneMine\n\nOneMine is a searchable online global mining and minerals library., OneMine contains over 130 years of peer reviewed works from professional societies including:\n\n\nOneMine was launched as a collaborative effort between professional societies in the mining and minerals related fields to promote access to technical articles, periodicals, books, and other published work as research source for engineers in related disciplines. OneMine currently contains more than 117,000 articles, technical papers and other documents from mining societies around the world.\n\nAmong the published works accessible in OneMine are:\n\n\nOneMine is non-profit entity governed by a steering committee whose members are nominated and serve for a term of three calendar years.\n\nProfessional Societies and associations in the mining, metallurgical and tunneling communities may have their technical papers, journals, periodicals, and other published works considered for inclusion in the OneMine library.\n"}
{"id": "22528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22528", "title": "Operating system advocacy", "text": "Operating system advocacy\n\nOperating system advocacy is the practice of attempting to increase the awareness and improve the perception of a computer operating system. The motivation behind this may be to increase the number of users of a system, to assert the superiority of one choice over another or out of brand loyalty, pride in an operating system's abilities, or, with open source operating systems, political or philosophical reasons, or to persuade software vendors to port specific applications or device drivers to the platform.\n\nOperating system advocacy can vary widely in tone and form, from seriously studied and researched comparisons to heated debates on mailing lists and other forums. Advocates are often normal users who devote their spare time to advocacy of their operating system of choice. Many have a deep and abiding interest in the use, design and construction of operating systems and an emotional investment in their favourite operating system.\n\nOperating system advocacy can be compared to advocacy in other fields, particularly browser, editor wars, programming languages and video game consoles, as well as the \"Ford vs. Chevy\" and similar debates in car culture.\n\nDue to the often emotional nature of advocacy debate and its sometimes narrow appeal to the wider user population, forums for discussion of advocacy are often separate from those for general discussion. Under the Usenet \"comp.os.*\" and \"comp.sys.*\" hierarchy, there are often \"*.advocacy\" groups devoted exclusively to advocating their respective operating systems. Some of these groups, such as \"comp.sys.amiga.advocacy\", can remain active even after their subject OS ceases to be a market force. The \"Guide to the Windows newsgroups\" exhorts Usenet posters not to \"get involved in arguments about Windows vs. OS/2 vs. Macintosh vs. NeXTSTEP \"except\" in the comp.os.ms-windows.advocacy group.\"\n\nOperating system advocacy discussions, on Usenet and elsewhere, have spawned a variety of jargon describing commonly seen behaviour, including \"MicroDroid\" and \"Amiga Persecution Complex\". The emotional form and negative characteristics often associated with operating system advocacy have led some to create guidelines explaining what they consider to be positive advocacy, such as the \"Linux Advocacy Guidelines\" and the \"Guidelines for Effective OS/2 Advocacy\".\n\nFreeBSD is served by a mailing list specifically for advocacy discussion. Advocacy-related materials and links are provided on the FreeBSD website, including a page of logos.\n\nAs there are a large number of Linux distributions, there are many organizations involved in Linux advocacy, including companies directly involved in the development of distributions as well as purely advocacy-based groups, such as SEUL. Promotion takes on a wide variety of forms from Tux plush toys to t-shirts and posters, and even to more unorthodox forms, such as body paints and video games.\n\nFrom the 1984 Super Bowl advertisement and \"Test Drive a Macintosh\" to the Apple Switch and Get a Mac advertising campaigns, Apple Computer has a long history of advocating its platform through traditional media. This also covers advocacy of the Macintosh hardware, peripherals and even lifestyle choices, with both fans and the company projecting a hip and trendy image while negatively portraying Microsoft Windows, IBM or other competitors as anything from awkward and dated to a totalitarian Big Brother figure.\n\nNeowin.net wrote editorials opposing Windows-bashing in the media. Microsoft has attempted to boost popularity of Windows 7 with a launch party program.\n\nLike FreeBSD, the NetBSD Foundation hosts a mailing list especially for advocacy. This mailing list is automatically archived and made accessible online. They also provide some official advocacy material, such as posters and flyers and an official \"powered by\" logo with a license permitting use on any product running NetBSD.\n\nLike FreeBSD and NetBSD, the OpenBSD project provides a mailing list specifically intended for advocacy, advocacy@openbsd.org. It was created on July 21, 1998 for discussion of user groups, stickers, shirts and the promotion of OpenBSD's image and also to host all flame-worthy discussions. As a part of its advocacy, the project also maintains a list of consulting firms and individual consultants around the world on its website and has produced a number of slogans, including \"Free, Functional & Secure\", \"Secure by default\", and \"Power. Security. Flexibility.\" Each OpenBSD release features an original song and a variety of artwork.\n\n\"Team OS/2\" was a grassroots organization conceived by an IBM employee and initially joined by other IBMers which quickly spread outside IBM. Whether IBM employees or not, Team OS/2 members initially volunteered their time and passion without official sanction from or connection to IBM. Members would promote OS/2 at trade shows, conferences, fairs, and in stores, participate in operating system discussions on CompuServe, Prodigy, Fidonet and Usenet, throw parties, help users install OS/2, contact media figures to explain OS/2 and generate interest, and in general exercise creativity and initiative in helping popularize OS/2.\nThe industry dynamics that gave rise to such passionate advocacy were multi-faceted. Perhaps the leading cause was antipathy for the idea that Microsoft could and would establish a monopoly for Windows and DOS, widely deemed as far inferior to OS/2. Additionally, many users feared that IBM, who had proven eminently capable of developing a superior PC operating system, knew very little about consumer marketing in the high-tech marketplace or establishing even a superior product as a standard in the cut-throat, get-there-first-at-any-cost arena dominated by Microsoft. Finally, the mere fact that so many copies of Windows were shipping to users (whom OS/2 advocates viewed as uncritical and uninformed), coupled with the fact that so many in the industry had so much riding on the success of OS/2, created conditions ripe for so many trying to take matters into their own hands. The only spark that was needed for this combustible situation to ignite was an example of evangelism provided by the \"new IBM\" - a few employees who took \"empowerment\" seriously, able to coordinate their efforts through participation in TEAMOS2 FORUM, an internal IBM discussion group) - and passionate supporters outside IBM who adopted the ideas and modeled the behaviors of those who were early activists within IBM.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3369028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3369028", "title": "Origo Gentis Langobardorum", "text": "Origo Gentis Langobardorum\n\nThe Origo Gentis Langobardorum (Latin for \"Origin of the tribe of the Lombards\") is a short, 7th-century AD Latin account offering a founding myth of the Lombard people. The first part visions the origin and naming of the Lombards, and the following text more resembles a king-list, up until the rule of Perctarit (672–688), which helps date the original writing of the text. \n\nThe account has been preserved in three \"codices\", mostly containing legalistic writings compiled in the reign of Rothari and known as \"Edictum Rothari\" or \"Leges Langobardorum\". As such, \"Origo Gentis Langobardorum\" is preserved in three manuscripts, Modena, Biblioteca Capitolare 0.I.2 (9th century), Cava de’ Tirreni, Archivio Della Badia 4, (early 9th century) and Madrid, Biblioteca Nacional 413 (early 11th century).\n\n\"Origo Gentis Langobardorum\" is also the textual source of the Lombard theonym \"godan\" (\"Wōdanaz\").\n\nThe \"Origo\" is summarized somewhat faithfully in the \"Historia Langobardorum\" by Paulus Diaconus. For the legend of origin Paulus Diaconus makes separate text paragraphs for, respectively, the conflict with the Vandals and the consulting with Frea and Godan, and he precedes the description of Frea and Godan with \"loco antiquitas ridiculam fabulam\" . Whereas the \"Origo\" is only extant in three copies, there are hundreds of medieval copies of the \"Historia\".\n\nFollowing is a free translation. \n\n\nAfter this, the Lombards migrated, and they came to Golaida (perhaps at the Oder), and later they ruled Aldonus and Anthaib (unclear, perhaps in Bavaria) and Bainaib (also Banthaib; perhaps in Bohemia) and Burgundaib (perhaps territory of the Burgundians, at the Middle Rhine ), and they chose as their king Agilmund, son of Agion, from the line of Gugingus, and later they were ruled by Laiamicho of the same dynasty, and after him Lethuc, who ruled for some 40 years. He was succeeded by his son, Aldihoc, and after him, Godehoc ruled. \n\nAudochari came from Ravenna with the Alans,\n\nGudehoc was succeeded by his son, Claffo, and he by his son, Tato. The Lombards tarried at Feld for three years, where Tato fought and killed Rodolfo, king of the Heruli.\n\nWacho son of Unichus killed Tato, and Ildichus, Tato's son fought Wacho, but he had to flee to the Gepids, where he died. Wacho had three wives, the first Raicunda, daughter of Fisud, king of the Turingi, the second Austrigusa, a daughter of the Gippidi, who had two daughters, Wisigarda, who married Theudipert, king of the Franks, and Walderada, who married Suscald, another king of the Franks, who didn't like her and gave her to Garipald, and the third Silinga, daughter of the king of the Heruli, who had a son named Waltari, who succeeded Wacho and ruled for seven years. Farigaidus was the last of the line of Lethuc.\n\nAfter Waltari ruled Auduin, who led the Lombards to Pannonia. Albuin, son of Auduin and his wife Rodelenda ruled after him. Albuin fought and killed Cunimund, king of the Gippidi. Albuin took to wife Cunimund's daughter, Rosemunda, and after she died Flutsuinda, daughter of Flothario, king of the Franks. She had a daughter called Albsuinda. \n\nAfter the Lombards had lived in Pannonia for 42 years, Albuin led them into Italy, in the month of April, and two years later, Albuin was lord of Italy. \n\nAfter Albuin, Cleph \n\nAcquo, duke of the Turingi came from the Thaurini, and married queen Theudelenda, becoming king of the Lombards. He killed his enemies, Zangrolf of Verona, Mimulf of the Island of Saint Julian, Gaidulf of Bergamo, and others. With Theudelenda, he had a daughter called Gunperga, and he ruled for six years.\n\nAfter him ruled Aroal, \n\nThere are no dates in \"Origo Gentis Langobardorum\", but the following gives the chronology :\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12647814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12647814", "title": "Parachute Regiment and Airborne Forces Museum", "text": "Parachute Regiment and Airborne Forces Museum\n\nThe Parachute Regiment and Airborne Forces Museum is based at Duxford in Cambridgeshire and tells the story of the Parachute Regiment and other airborne forces.\n\nThe museum was established by a meeting of the Committee of the Parachute Regiment Association in October 1946. It was housed in various barracks until a permanent home at Browning Barracks at the Aldershot Garrison was opened by Field Marshal Lord Montgomery on 23 March 1969. The museum moved to a new home in partnership with Imperial War Museum Duxford under the Airborne Assault name in late 2008. The new attraction was opened by Charles, Prince of Wales, Colonel-in-Chief of The Parachute Regiment on 8 December 2008.\n\nNew multimedia displays tell the story of today's airborne soldier and his heritage from 1940 when British Airborne Forces were first formed at the insistence of Prime Minister Winston Churchill. The displays include the original briefing models for airborne operations of World War II, including Bruneval, D-Day and the Rhine Crossing. The phases of the battle of Arnhem and Operation Market Garden are fully explained in a dedicated exhibit. Broad coverage is given to the post-war campaigns from Borneo and Suez to the Falklands War, Northern Ireland and Afghanistan. Exhibits of light weapons and heavy drop equipment from jeeps to field guns are suspended as if dropping into action. An original nosecone of the Horsaglider which carried airlanding troops into action at Normandy and the Rhine is featured, as well as Bing the Paradog, who dropped in 1945.\n\nThe Medal Gallery exhibits many of the medals awarded to British airborne troops, including the posthumous VCs awarded to Lt. John Hollington Grayburn of the 2nd Battalion the Parachute Regiment, Captain Lionel Ernest Queripel of the 10th Battalion the Parachute Regiment, and that awarded in 2007 to Corporal Bryan Budd, of the 3rd Battalion.\n\nThe vision for Airborne Assault is a unique attraction bringing alive the history and modern reality of the Parachute Regiment and Airborne Forces. Central to this is ParaData - a comprehensive database record of all who have served, and are currently serving, linked to accounts and details of relevant campaigns and engagements. Photographs, documents, letters and film and audio interviews are appended to each entry where available, and contributions of further material are invited. The database aims to be a definitive history and a continually updated resource. While paying respect to those who have served and their families, this will engage a younger audience, especially with reference to the National Curriculum, through the use of the latest technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "19290699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19290699", "title": "Peranakan Museum", "text": "Peranakan Museum\n\nThe Peranakan Museum is a museum in Singapore specialising in Peranakan culture. A sister museum to the Asian Civilisations Museum, it is the first of its kind in the world, that explores Peranakan cultures in Singapore and other former Straits Settlements in Malacca and Penang, and other Peranakan communities in Southeast Asia. It is housed in the Old Tao Nan School building at Armenian Street, which once served as an extended wing to the artefact collection of the Asian Civilisations Museum. \n\nOn January 1, 2006 the Museum, known then as \"ACM 1\" closed the Armenian Street wing for a major revamp. At its closure, the museum management chose Peranakan culture theme over a children's museum and a Chinese ceramic museum as their new showcase in the Tao Nan School space. This enabled the Museum to house the world's most distinctive and comprehensive Peranakan museum collection of artifacts and wares, with a potential annual visitorship numbers of 112,000 people. Also, the revamp enabled 25 per cent more exhibition space for contextual displays for different aspects of Peranakan home and lifestyle. It also includes plans for Peranakan-themed eateries and shops in the row of four shop-houses adjacent to its building.\n\nThe museum officially opened on April 25, 2008, with ten permanent galleries showcasing main themes of Peranakan life. A central feature of the museum is the Peranakan Wedding Bed which once belonged to Mrs. Quah Hong Chiam of Penang, and the very bed where she gave birth to the first seven of her 11 children.\n\nThe different galleries are found in the following manner:\n\nGallery 1 titled \"Origins\" provides an introduction to Peranakan culture and to various Peranakan communities in Singapore, Malacca, Penang and Southeast Asia. Visitors to the subsequent rooms will learn about the story of the traditional 12-day Peranakan wedding, where significant ceremonies like the lap chai (exchange of gifts) and chiu thau (coming of age) are presented. Visitors can also see the\nelaborate wedding chamber and a wedding procession taking place indoors on Level 2. Gallery 6 \"Nonya\", features the arts and crafts of Nonyas like beadwork, along with a display on the Nonya kebaya, and the womenfolks' role of transmitting cultural values to Peranakan children. Gallery 7 shows \"Religion\", on Peranakans and their faiths. Gallery 8 illustrates the commerce, politics and social affairs of prominent Peranakans in Singapore’s history in this exhibition titled \"Public Life.\" Gallery 9 on \"Food and Feasting\", provides a grand banquet setting with the world’s best collection of nonya porcelain. And finally the visual experience concludes with an introspection of modern Peranakans and how they feel about their heritage and the future of their culture in Gallery 10 (\"Conversations\"). Additional \"Special Exhibitions Galleries\" will feature changing specific-themed exhibitions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35588864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35588864", "title": "Photographers/Aspen", "text": "Photographers/Aspen\n\nPhotographers/Aspen was a stock photo agency based in Aspen, Colorado started by National Geographic photographers Nicholas DeVore III, Jonathan Wright, David Hiser and Paul Chesley in 1984. In the 1990s the agency collaborated with Tony Stone Images and Getty Images before disbanding in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "55875844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55875844", "title": "Points-based immigration system", "text": "Points-based immigration system\n\nA points-based immigration system is an immigration system where a noncitizen's eligibility to immigrate is (partly or wholly) determined by whether that noncitizen is able to score above a threshold number of points in a scoring system that might include such factors as education level, wealth, connection with the country, language fluency, existing job offer, or others. Points-based immigration systems are sometimes also referred to as merit-based immigration systems, Countries that use points-based immigration systems may have other pathways for potential immigrants (such as immediate family, refugees, etc.), so that meeting the points threshold is not necessary for all immigrants. They may also have additional criteria that points-based immigrants need to satisfy, such as no criminal record or no involvement with terrorist organizations. Some countries that use points-based immigration systems are the United Kingdom (see main article), Canada, Australia, and New Zealand. Canada and Australia are the two countries with the most experience with the points-based system, and are often used as the comparison points when judging whether a country's immigration system is points-based.\n\nCanada was the first country to introduce a points-based immigration system, doing so in 1967. The change came as Canada was moving past an immigration system that distinguished based on race and country of origin. The new system favored youth, education, experience and fluency in English or French, i.e., broad human capital as opposed to a specific job offer or job-specific skills. The points-based immigration system has been identified as one of the factors in the change in Canada's immigrant distribution from 85% European to 15% European and leveled the field of immigration.\n\nIn response to lower and declining labor force participation among people admitted through the points-based system relative to native Canadian workers, two reasons were identified: lack of recognition by Canadian employers of foreign educational degrees, and poor language fluency. As a result, the government changed its points-based system to weigh English and French language fluency more heavily. The system was also changed so that any skilled applicant with a job offer scores higher than any applicant without. The application process was again revamped due to the gap between a foreign candidate and an employer and reduced the points for job offer, they also changed the system to an invitation to immigrate method that allows an open expression of interest with the option the pool of candidates can remain a year or two in the system to meet the frequently published \"lottery point\" and get invited. The lack of visibility of qualified immigrant candidate profiles in the job bank for the employers and hiring agencies in reaching out with a job offer was observed to lag the process.\n\nCanada has been cited as an example of a successful use of a points-based system and a society that embraces multiculturalism. However, they are falling back to older standards where first registered gets first selection per scores to support immigration agents who with the introduction of new system didn't have a say in the matter to force applicants. French Academy also have influenced the current changes.\n\nIn 1972, the Labor Government elected in Australia decided migrants would be granted a visa based on personal attributes and ability to contribute to Australian society. In 1989, Australia formalized a points-based immigration system similar to Canada's (\"The Economist\" gives a date of 1979 for initial rollout of the policy). Like Canada, Australia switched to the points-based system as it was transitioning out of its history of race-based (Briton-focused, white-only) immigration policy. Australia's experience of the system is unique with smaller changes in regulations and diverse options through provincial programs. Australia shifted to an application process where people were invited to express interest if they meet a required-straight forward score and the applicants would be invited per labour market requirements within a year or two after being in the pool.\n\nIn 2017, Australia's points-based system was cited as an inspiration and was raised as an elegant point during discussions of immigration policy in the United Kingdom in the context of Brexit. It has also been cited in the context of Donald Trump's interest in making the United States immigration system more merit-based and reducing its focus on extended family migration after the Australian prime minister Malcolm Turnbull announced putting \"Australians first\" through a Facebook video.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2010, the U. K. phased in a points-based immigration system for regulating immigration from outside the European Economic Area. \"The Economist\" reports that the system did not evolve into a points-based system like that of Australia or Canada due to the numerous special exemptions carved out by various interest groups, and subsequent slashing of immigration under the Tory government. However, specialty based immigration is open in the United Kingdom.\n\nBefore 1950's America had a points-based system of immigration. The Trump Administration has proposed to bring back the system for issuing green cards, to make the USCIS system efficient and to reduce backlogs. The administration also intends to cancel their current green card lottery and chain migration systems by implementing point based system. Even-though the new Visa will have regulations and caps, it might be open for anyone who meets the standards. Due to the increasing need for Laborers and subsequent support for illegal alien workers (like in the agricultural industry), a legalized satisfaction for the service industry needs in form of laborer immigration (an extended form of H-2B visa) is in the workings, it as such avoids 457 visa/temporary work permit problems that is common in Australia. (Australia, however, have snubbed the Visa from January 2018 and replaced it with 482 Visa that allows immigration and requires Individual band score of 5 in IELTS exams for the candidates, and for STEM employers to pay ten percent of the salary offered to the foreign worker at the Skilling Australians Fund per year.) In the developing system the immigrants will be welcomed to work specifically in the service sector for a required period of time, and for equitable reasons they can qualify for green card by natural processing with the entry requirement that the immigrant meet an English language proficiency and show of their willingness to enter into an American education program (like community colleges) for gaining skills and basis for cultural integration while working, this will be counted as a goodwill factor in citizenship application. Absence of criminal records will also be a significant criteria for successful entry. However, highly skilled immigrants might require a job offer through a governmental \"job match and selection\" platform along with meeting the entry requirements to avoid \"Ph.D cabdrivers\" phenomenon and hostile brain drain of their native country. Specialty professionals (STEM field) will be selected per labor market statistical projection that will have a safeguard for displacement of jobs for citizens per Americans first policy by maintaining attraction of new and competent overseas workers.\n\nNew Zealand introduced a points-based system in 1991.\n\nBoth Canada and Australia began with points-based systems focused more on human capital than on specific job offers, but both found through experience that this resulted in lower immigrant employment rates compared with natives or with immigrants in certain states and provinces. This led Madeleine Sumption of the Migration Observatory at Oxford University to claim that \"pure\" point systems \"don't work.\" Both countries modified their points-based systems to take job offers into account. But this didn't open window for job opportunities or an open channel for immigrant candidates and employers; additional paperwork and lack of channels have been observed resulting in low rates of immigration and many have reverted or reduced points required in these factors.\n\nDemetrios Papademetriou of the Migration Policy Institute argued, based on the frequent tweaking of criteria used by Canada and Australia, that points-based systems require frequent tweaking in order to be successful. Given the slow pace of United States immigration legislation, he argued that this required a greater level of planning for the bureaucracy than seen in the United States immigration system, so to gain autonomy for the implementation of a points-based system would be a challenge for the United States.\n"}
{"id": "44070264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44070264", "title": "Price v Sports Marine Ltd", "text": "Price v Sports Marine Ltd\n\nPrice v Sports Marine Ltd is a cited case in New Zealand regarding liability exclusion clauses which are generally prohibited for non business transactions under section 43 of the Consumer Guarantees Act.\n\nThe Price's owned a 17 ft Searay boat, which they placed with Sports Marine to sell on their behalf. The Price's agreed to a non liability clause with Sport's Marine.\n\nWhilst the boat was at Sports Marine, one of their staff damaged the boat during the test run, damage which Sports Marine argued that the non liability clause stopped them for being liable. The Prices argued that the CGA makes such clauses unenforceable regarding consumer transactions.\n\nThe clause was a breach of section 32(c) of the CGA.\n"}
{"id": "237014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=237014", "title": "Quorum", "text": "Quorum\n\nA quorum is the minimum number of members of a deliberative assembly (a body that uses parliamentary procedure, such as a legislature) necessary to conduct the business of that group. According to \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\", the \"requirement for a quorum is protection against totally unrepresentative action in the name of the body by an unduly small number of persons.\"\n\nThe term \"quorum\" is from a Middle English wording of the commission formerly issued to justices of the peace, derived from Latin \"quorum\", \"of whom\", genitive plural of \"qui\", \"who\". As a result, \"quora\" as plural of \"quorum\" is not a valid Latin formation.\n\nEach assembly determines the number of members that constitutes a quorum in its governing documents (such as in its constitution, charter, bylaws or standing orders). The quorum may also be set by law. \"Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised\" states that the quorum set in an organization's bylaws \"should approximate the largest number that can be depended on to attend any meeting except in very bad weather or other extremely unfavorable conditions.\"\n\nIn the absence of such a provision, a quorum in an assembly whose membership can be determined is a majority of the entire membership. In the meetings of a convention, unless provided otherwise, a quorum is a majority of registered delegates, even if some have departed. In a mass meeting or in an organization in which the membership cannot be accurately determined, the quorum consists of those who attend the meeting.\n\nIn committees and boards, a quorum is a majority of the members of the board or committee unless provided otherwise. The board or committee cannot set its own quorum unless given such power. In a committee of the whole or its variants, a quorum is the same as the assembly unless otherwise provided.\n\nIn online groups, a quorum has to be determined in a different manner since no one is actually \"present\". The rules establishing such groups would have to prescribe this determination. An example is that a quorum in such groups could be established as \"present\" if enough members state that they are \"present\" at the designated meeting time.\n\nThe chairman of the group has the responsibility to determine if a quorum is present. In addition, any member can raise a point of order about an apparent absence of a quorum. Because it is difficult to determine exactly when a quorum was lost, points of order relating to the absence of a quorum are \"generally not permitted to affect prior action; but upon clear and convincing proof, such a point of order can be given effect retrospectively by a ruling of the presiding officer, subject to appeal.\"\n\nWhen a quorum is not met, the assembly can only take limited procedural actions. These limited actions are to fix the time to which to adjourn, adjourn, recess, or take measures to obtain a quorum, such as a motion that absent members be contacted during a recess.\n\nAny other business that is conducted is not valid unless it is ratified at a later meeting where a quorum is present. However, there is no obligation to ratify such action and those responsible may be punished for their actions.\n\nIn legislatures and other assemblies that have the legal power to compel the attendance of their members, the call of the house procedure may be used to obtain a quorum. This procedure does not exist in ordinary societies, since voluntary associations have no coercive power.\n\nWhen a call of the house is ordered, the clerk calls the roll of members and then the names of absentees. Members who do not have an excused absence are arrested and brought in. The arrested members may be charged a fee.\n\nIn the United States Senate, the procedure was used in the early morning hours of 25 February 1988. Senator Robert C. Byrd of West Virginia, then the Senate Majority Leader, moved a call of the house after the minority Republicans walked out in an attempt to deny the Senate a quorum after Senate aides began bringing cots into the Senate cloakrooms in preparation for an all-night session over campaign finance reform for congressional elections. Byrd's motion was approved 45-3 and arrest warrants were signed for all 46 Republicans. Senate Sergeant-at-Arms Henry K. Giugni and his staff searched the Capitol's corridor and Senate office buildings for absent Senators, and after checking several empty offices, spotted Senator Steve Symms of Idaho, who fled down a hallway and escaped arrest. After a cleaning woman gave a tip that Senator Robert Packwood of Oregon was in his office, Giugni opened the door with a skeleton key. Packwood attempted to shove the door closed, but Giugni and two assistants pushed it open. Packwood was \"carried feet-first into the Senate chamber by three plainclothes officers\" and sustained bruised knuckles.\n\nPrior to 1988, the last time the procedure had been used was during a 1942 filibuster over civil rights legislation. Southern Democrat senators had spent days filibustering legislation to end poll taxes, just days after midterm elections had resulted in the loss of nine seats. Democratic Majority Leader Alben W. Barkley obtained an order on a Saturday session on 14 November 1942, directing Sergeant at Arms Chesley W. Jurney to round up the five Southern absentees to obtain a quorum. Jurney sent his Deputy Sergeant at Arms, J. Mark Trice, to the apartment of Democratic Senator Kenneth McKellar of Tennessee at the Mayflower Hotel. Then 73 years old and the third-most senior Senator, McKellar was later described by Republican Senator Bill Frist in his book on Tennessee senators as an \"extraordinarily shrewd man of husky dimensions with a long memory and a short fuse.\" Trice called from the lobby, but McKellar refused to answer his phone, so the deputy sergeant at arms walked up to the apartment and convinced the senator's maid to let him in:\n\nThe tactic of quorum-busting—causing a quorum to be prevented from the meeting—has been used in legislative bodies by minorities seeking to block the adoption of some measure they oppose. This generally only happens where the quorum is a super-majority, as quorums of a majority or less of the membership mean that the support of a majority of members is always sufficient for the quorum (as well as for passage). Rules to discourage quorum-busting have been adopted by legislative bodies, such as the call of the house, outlined above.\n\nQuorum-busting has been used for centuries. For instance, during his time in the Illinois Legislature, Abraham Lincoln leapt out of a first story window (the doors of the Capitol had been locked to prevent legislators from fleeing) in a failed attempt to prevent a quorum from being present.\n\nA recent prominent example of quorum-busting occurred during the 2003 Texas redistricting, in which the majority Republicans in the Texas House of Representatives sought to carry out a controversial mid-decade congressional redistricting bill which would have favored Republicans by displacing five Democratic U.S. Representatives from Texas (the Texas Five) from their districts. The House Democrats, certain of defeat if a quorum were present, took a plane to the neighboring state of Oklahoma to prevent a quorum from being present (and thus the passage of the bill). The group gained the nickname \"the Killer Ds.\"\n\nSimilarly, the minority Democrats in the Texas Legislature's upper chamber, the Texas Senate, fled to New Mexico to prevent a quorum of the Senate to prevent a redistricting bill from being considered during a special session. The Texas Eleven stayed in New Mexico for 46 days before John Whitmire returned to Texas, creating a quorum. Because there was now no point in staying in New Mexico, the remaining ten members of the Texas Eleven returned to Texas to vote in opposition to the bill.\n\nDuring the 2011 Wisconsin protests, fourteen Democratic members of the Wisconsin Senate went to Illinois in order to bust the necessary 20-member quorum. Democrats in the Indiana House of Representatives did the same in order to block another union-related bill, causing the legislative clock on the bill to expire. Traveling out of their state placed these legislators beyond the jurisdiction of state troopers who could compel them to return to the chamber.\n\nThe similar tactic of disappearing quorum (refusing to vote although physically present on the floor) was used by the minority to block votes in the United States House of Representatives until 1890. That year, Speaker Thomas Brackett Reed ordered that members who were present but abstaining would count in the quorum.\n\nSection 22 and section 39 of the Constitution of Australia set the quorum for sittings of the House of Representatives and Senate at one-third of the whole number of MPs and senators, respectively, but Parliament is permitted to change the quorum for each House by ordinary legislation.\n\nIn the House of Representatives, the quorum was amended down to one-fifth by the House of Representatives (Quorum) Act 1989, which means the quorum of the current House of 150 MPs is 30 MPs. In the senate, the quorum was amended down to one-quarter by the Senate (Quorum) Act 1991, so 19 senators is a quorum. The quorum includes the occupant of the Chair and is not reduced by the death or resignation of a member or senator.\n\nIf at the beginning of a sitting the quorum is not met, the bells are rung for five minutes and a count is then taken; if the quorum is still not met the sitting is adjourned until the next sitting day. During the sitting, any MP or senator may draw attention to the lack of quorum in which the bells are rung for four minutes, and if a quorum is still not met the sitting is adjourned.\n\nAlthough quorum-busting is virtually unheard of in Australia, it is not unknown for parties to deliberately use quorum counts as a disruptive tactic and there have been some suggestions to enact rules to restrict this practice; however, this is very difficult due to the explicit mention of a quorum in the constitution. It is considered disorderly to call attention to quorum when one exists and members or senators who do so can be punished.\n\nIn the National Council of Austria at least one-third of the representatives must be present, so that they may decide on a simple law (participation quorum of 33.3%). At least half of the members must participate if a constitutional law should pass the parliament (participation quorum of 50% based on the total number of members). Over and above that, constitutional laws require the consent of at least two-thirds of the members present (quorum agreement of 66.6% based on the number of voting present).\n\nIn Canada, the Constitution Act, 1867 sets quorum for sittings of the House of Commons of Canada at 20 MPs. If a member calls for quorum to be counted and a first count shows there are fewer than 20 members, bells are rung to call in the members; if after 15 minutes there are still fewer than 20 members, the session is adjourned to the next sitting day; the members present sign a roll on the table of the house, and this list is included in the Journal of the House. There is no need for quorum when the attendance of the House is requested in the Senate of Canada, for example, when Royal Assent is being given to bills. The quorum of the Senate is 15.\n\nIn the German Bundestag at least half of the members (311 out of 622) must be present so that it is empowered to make resolutions. It is however common that fewer members are present, because they can still make effective decisions as long as no parliamentary group or 5% of the members of the parliament are complaining about the lack of quorum. This, in rare cases, is used by opposition parties to delay votes.\n\nArticle 75 of the Basic Law of Hong Kong stipulates that the quorum required for the meetings of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (LegCo) as \"not less than one-half of its members\". Between 1997 and 2012 the quorum was 30, and since 2012 it has been 35. Prior to 1997 transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong, the quorum was set at 20.\n\nThe quorum for the panels, committees and subcommittees is, nevertheless, one-third or three members, whichever the greater, as according to the Rules of Procedure. The three standing committees, namely, the Finance Committee, the Public Accounts Committee and Committee on Members' Interests, is exceptional that the quorums are 9, 3 and 3 respectively.\n\nQuorum-busting was used at least twice since 1997. In 2005, when some pro-democracy members of the council paid a silent tribute to late leader of the People's Republic of China, Zhao Ziyang, against the Rules of Procedure, the president of the council suspended the meeting. When the meeting was recalled, pro-Beijing members refused to return to the chamber, forcing the meeting to be adjourned.\n\nOn 27 January 2010, when five pro-democracy members were intending to make their resignation speeches, pro-Beijing members of the council left the chamber as a sign of protest. One of the pro-Beijing members nevertheless stayed in the chamber to call for the quorum to be counted, effectively forcing the meeting to be adjourned. The resignation was intended as a \"de facto\" referendum across all five geographical constituencies of the territory, involving the entire electorate, which would not be officially recognised anyway. Most other factions, although against the move by these five Members, stayed in the chamber.\n\nOn 2 May 2012, when the LegCo was debating a law change to bar resigning legislators to participate in by-elections in 6 months, effectively discouraging any more \"de facto\" referenda, some of the five pro-democracy members who resigned constantly issued quorum calls, especially when they were making their resignation speeches intended for 2 years before. In the nine-hour meeting, 23 quorum calls were issued, taking up to 3 hours. When LegCo reconvened on 3 May, it was adjourned for lack of quorum amid a boycott by the pan-democrats. The pro-government members drew a timetable to ensure a quorum, but it failed to prevent another lack of quorum.\n\nOn 18 June 2015, when the LegCo was due to vote on a resolution to amend the provisions for the election of the territory's Chief Executive, pro-Beijing members left the chamber to force a quorum roll call to make sure that a sick member could be able to rush back to the chamber. However some of the members stayed behind, citing miscommunication, and the division proceeded with two members above the required quorum of 35. While the resolution was originally predicted to be narrowly defeated due to not able to get super-majority support votes, it turned out to be a landslide defeat.\n\nQuorum-busting and attempts to thwart it are also a common feature during the annual motion debate related to the 1989 Tiananmen massacre moved by pro-democracy Members. The quorum is called to be counted from time to time by the pan-democrats, in order to force the pro-Beijing camp to keep some members in the chamber.\n\n of the Constitution of India stipulates that at least 10% of total number of members of the House must be present to constitute the quorum to constitute a meeting of either House of Parliament. For example, if the House has the total membership of 250, at least 25 members must be present for the House to proceed with its business.\n\nIf at any time during a meeting of a House there is no quorum, the Chairman has to either adjourn the House or suspend it until there is a quorum.\n\nAccording to the most recent standing orders, published in 2011, the Quorum for the Irish Parliament (The Oireachtas) for both the house and senate is 20 members.\n\nThe chamber of Dail Eireann is rarely full outside question time, with often just one government representative (often an ordinary member of parliament, not a minister) present to answer opposition questions.\n\nIn Congress of the Philippines, half of the membership (13 in the Senate and 149 in the House of Representatives) is needed to muster a quorum. If someone contests the lack of quorum, a roll call shall be done, and if there is indeed less than a majority of members present, the meeting shall be adjourned.\n\nBoth majority and minority blocs in Congress have used the lack of quorum in defeating bills that they don't want to be passed without putting it to a vote. After an election during the lame-duck session, quorums are notoriously difficult to muster, more so in the House of Representatives as winning incumbents may opt to go on vacation, and defeated incumbents may opt to not to show up.\n\nAccording to article 96 of the Turkish Constitution, unless otherwise stipulated in the Constitution, the Turkish Grand National Assembly shall convene with at least, one-third of the total number of members (184 out of 550) and shall take decisions by an absolute majority of those present; however, the quorum for decisions can, under no circumstances, be less than a quarter plus one of the total\nnumber of members.\n\nBefore the constitutional referendum of 2007, there was a quorum of two-thirds required in the Turkish Parliament. The opposition parties used the quorum to deadlock the presidential election of 2007, making it impossible for the parliament to choose a president. As a result, the ruling AK party proposed a referendum to lower the quorum. Nearly seventy percent of the participants supported the constitutional changes.\n\nIn the Parliament of the United Kingdom, the House of Commons has a quorum of 40 MPs, including the Speaker, out of 650 members of the House. There is no need for a quorum to be present at all times. Commons debates could theoretically continue even if just one MP and the Speaker were present. However, if a division is called and fewer than 40 MPs are present, then a decision on the business being considered is postponed and the House moves on to consider the next item of business. The quorum for votes on legislation in the House of Lords is 30, but just three of the 753 peers, including the Lord Speaker, are required to be present for a debate to take place.\n\nHistorically, the Quorum was a select group of the Justices of the Peace in each county in early modern Britain. In theory, they were men experienced in law, but many of the Quorum were appointed because of their status. Some legislation required the involvement of a member of the Quorum, (e.g., granting a license to a badger). In practice, they increasingly were not qualified, as the proportion in the Quorum rose faster than the proportion who were called to the bar or practising lawyers. By 1532, an average 45% of Justices of the Peace nationally were of the Quorum. In Somerset, the proportion rose from 52% in 1562 to 93% in 1636. By then, most of those not on the Quorum were new to the bench. Sometimes Justices of the Peace were removed from the Quorum as a disciplinary measure less drastic than removal from the bench.\n\nThe large deliberative bodies of the United Nations (the General Assembly and Economic and Social Council, as well as their subsidiary organs) generally require the attendance of one-third of the membership (currently 65 states in the General Assembly and 18 in ECOSOC) to conduct most business, but a majority of members (currently 97 states in the General Assembly and 28 states in ECOSOC) in order to take any substantive decisions. The rules of the United Nations Security Council make no provisions for quorum, but nine votes are in all cases required to pass any substantive measure, effectively meaning that a meeting with fewer than nine members in attendance is pointless.\n\nArticle I, Section 5, Clause 1 of the United States Constitution provides that \"Each House shall be the Judge of the Elections, Returns and Qualifications of its own Members, and a Majority of each shall constitute a Quorum to do Business...\" Therefore, in both the House of Representatives and the Senate a quorum is a simple majority of their respective members. The only exception is that stated in the Twelfth Amendment, which provides that in cases in which no candidate for President of the United States receives a majority in the Electoral College, the election is decided by the House of Representatives, in which case \"a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the states,\" and in cases in which no candidate for Vice President of the United States has been elected, the election is decided by the Senate, in which case \"a quorum for the purpose shall consist of two-thirds of the whole number of Senators.\"\n\nThe Senate has the additional ordinary requirement in Rule VI of its Standing Rules that \"A quorum shall consist of a majority of the Senators duly chosen and sworn.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48630374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48630374", "title": "Regressive left", "text": "Regressive left\n\n\"Regressive left\" (also formulated as \"regressive liberals\" and \"regressive leftists\") is a neologism and political epithet, used as a pejorative to describe a section of left-wing politics who are accused of holding paradoxical, reactionary views by their tolerance of illiberal principles and ideologies, particularly identity politics (emphasis on group identities like race and gender, rather than on the individual), and opposition to free speech for the sake of multiculturalism and cultural relativism.\n\nBritish political activist Maajid Nawaz, American political talk-show hosts such as Bill Maher and Dave Rubin, as well as New Atheist writers like Sam Harris and Richard Dawkins are among those who have used the term.\n\nIn 2007, Maajid Nawaz renounced his previous association with the radical Islamist group Hizb ut-Tahrir in favor of secular Islam. He is co-founder and chairman of Quilliam, a counter-extremism think tank based in London that seeks to challenge Islamist ideology.\n\nNawaz has used the phrase \"regressive left\" to describe left-leaning people who—in his opinion—pander to Islamism, which he defines as a \"global totalitarian theo-political project\" with a \"desire to impose any given interpretation of Islam over society as law\" and which he opposes on the ground that \"any desire to impose any version of Islam over anyone anywhere, ever, is a fundamental violation of our basic civil liberties\". According to Nawaz, such sympathizers of Islamism include \"atheists who are on the side of the Islamists, defending Islamism in the name of cultural tolerance\".\n\nIn an October 2015 interview with political talk show host Dave Rubin, Nawaz elucidated further the reasoning behind his choice of the word \"regressive\" and hypothesized that a section of people on the left \"genuinely believe\" that they are fighting an \"ideological war\" against neoconservative and neocolonialist foreign policies of Western governments which promote state-organized violence and chaos in the form of wars and military invasions. In contrast, he claims that such leftists forgo their duty to denounce the violent acts of theocratic extremists such as Islamists, at times going so far as to \"make alliances\" with some of the most regressive, theocratic and murderous regimes and organizations. He cited Jeremy Corbyn, leader of the British Labour Party, as an example of someone who \"has been historically very close\" to supporters of Islamist organisations like Hamas and Hezbollah. In Nawaz's opinion, it is possible to denounce both neoconservative foreign policies such as the Iraq War (which he had opposed) and theocratic extremism, but those that he labels \"regressive leftists\" fail to do so he says.\n\nAccording to Nawaz, the notion that Muslims cannot cope with criticism or mockery of Islam and only react violently is \"patronizing, self-pity inspiring mollycoddling\" of the very Muslims it claims to serve and emancipate, because it does not expect them to be civil and control their anger. This \"racism of low expectations\" lowers the moral standards of people within minorities, seeking excuses if they express misogyny, homophobia, chauvinism, bigotry or antisemitism, whilst holding members of the majority to \"universal liberal standards\".\n\nHaras Rafiq, managing director of Quilliam, expressed the view that there is a tendency of some on the left to excuse Islamism: \"We have not got to grips with the symbiotic relationship between Islamism and far-right hatred, and the regressive left that is prepared to excuse Islamism\".\n\nIn September 2015, Sam Harris and Maajid Nawaz participated in a public forum hosted by Harvard University's Institute of Politics, which was later published in a short book, titled \"Islam and the Future of Tolerance\" (2015). In a review of the book in the magazine \"National Review Online\", political writer Brian Stewart noted that according to both Nawaz and Harris \"regressive leftists\" in the West are \"willfully blind\" to the fact that jihadists and Islamists make up a significant portion (20% in Harris's estimate) of the global Muslim community and the minority Muslim communities within the West, even though these factions are opposed to liberal values such as individual autonomy, freedom of expression, democracy, women's rights, gay rights, etc. Nawaz and Harris have denounced the paradoxically illiberal, isolationist and censuring attitude towards any criticism of this phenomenon, which they contend betrays universal liberal values and also abandons supporting and defending the most vulnerable liberal members living within the Muslim community such as women, homosexuals and apostates.\n\nIn October 2015, \"The Washington Times\" reported that American comedian and show host Bill Maher and British biologist and New Atheist author Richard Dawkins \"lamented regressive leftists who fail to understand they are anything but liberal when it comes to Islam\". Maher noted a willingness to criticise anything except Islam, excusing it as \"their culture\", to which Dawkins responded: \"Well, to hell with their culture\". Making reference to student initiatives to disinvite ex-Muslim speakers on campus, Dawkins saw this as \"a betrayal of the Free Speech Movement of the 1960s\".\n\nIn October and November 2015, Sam Harris frequently used the term in his exchanges with the media, saying the greatest danger is that the \"regressive left\" is willing to give up freedom of speech \"out of fear of offending minorities\", which will lead to censorship imposed by those minorities, citing American journalist Glenn Greenwald's comments on the Charlie Hebdo shooting as an example. Harris considers Reza Aslan and Noam Chomsky to be of the regressive left.\n\nIn November 2015 in an appearance on the talk radio show \"The Humanist Hour\", author and philosopher Peter Boghossian defined the term as a pejorative used to describe those on the left that have made the \"strangest bedfellows\" with the Islamists. According to him, the word \"regressive\" is used to contrast with the word \"progressive\" – the latter being the group that is egalitarian and wants to create systems of justice and racial equality, while the former being a group that \"[looks] for the worst in people... and [does] not extend hermeneutics of charity, or a charitable interpretation of anything anyone says, but uses it as a hammer to beat people down\". In addition, Boghossian believes that \"regressive leftists\" have become \"hyper-moralists\" and champions of their perceived victims. He cites the historical wrongdoings such as slavery in the United States and colonialism as a legitimate concern that has caused mistrust of anything Western and capitalistic. He also added that \"there are people who have suffered and still suffer legitimate instances of racism, homophobia etc. The problem is that every time the word racist is just thrown around like that, that word loses its meaning. And it should have quite a sting. That should be a horrible word\".\n\nIn late 2015, talk show host Dave Rubin hosted discussions about the \"regressive left\" in several \"The Rubin Report\" segments. Rubin describes the regressive left as \"the left's version of the Tea Party\", saying that the regressive left will damage the Democratic Party in a similar way the Tea Party damages the Republican Party.\n\nPolitical commentator David Pakman supported the concept in his talk show, saying \"there are liberals who do use cultural relativism and distaste for US foreign policy as an excuse to defend or at least minimize violence and injustice that they would certainly otherwise oppose\". Pakman has distanced himself from the term, saying that it is misused by conservatives to insult all liberals. Pakman suggests that the actual regressive leftists are leftists who use authoritarianism to enforce progressivism.\n\nIn November 2015, psychiatrist Khwaja Khusro Tariq from \"The Huffington Post\" classified the term as an unsubstantiated \"ad hominem\" attack, stating that the harshest critics of Islam are courted by both liberal and conservative media in the United States. Khusro also stated the term has been directed towards Glenn Greenwald and Noam Chomsky, both of whom he said have never condoned violence or opined on the doctrine of Islam. He argued that there was no genuine inhibition on speaking against the religion.\n\nIn March 2016, Joseph Bernstein, a \"BuzzFeed\" reporter on web culture, wrote that according to Google Trends interest in the term \"shot up\" in late 2015. According to Bernstein, instead of criticising \"cultural tolerance gone too far\", the phrase has \"become a catch-all for any element of the dominant new media culture that the anti-SJW internet doesn't like\". He also suggests that even though the term can be sourced back to self-described liberal commentators like Nawaz, Maher and Dawkins, it is currently heavily used by the alt-right and other Anti-SJW Groups on Internet forums and social media as part of their rhetorical warfare.\n"}
{"id": "965678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965678", "title": "Roald Dahl short stories bibliography", "text": "Roald Dahl short stories bibliography\n\nRoald Dahl short stories bibliography is a comprehensive annotated list of short stories written by Roald Dahl.\n\n"}
{"id": "8483702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8483702", "title": "Saint Michael's Castle", "text": "Saint Michael's Castle\n\nSt. Michael's Castle (, \"Mikhailovsky zamok\"), also called the Mikhailovsky Castle or the Engineers' Castle (, \"Inzhenerny zamok\"), is a former royal residence in the historic centre of Saint Petersburg, Russia. St. Michael's Castle was built as a residence for Emperor Paul I by architects Vincenzo Brenna and Vasili Bazhenov in 1797-1801. The castle looks different from each side, as the architects used motifs of various architectural styles such as French Classicism, Italian Renaissance and Gothic.\n\nSt. Michael's Castle was built to the south of the Summer Garden and replaced the small wooden palace of Empress Elizabeth Petrovna. Afraid of intrigues and assassination plots, Emperor Paul I disliked the Winter Palace where he never felt safe. Due to his personal fascination with medieval knights and his constant fear of assassination, the new royal residence was built like a castle around a small octagonal courtyard. The building with rounded corners was surrounded by the waters of the Moika River, the Fontanka River and two specially dug canals (the Church Canal and the Sunday Canal), transforming the castle area into an artificial island which could only be reached by drawbridges.\n\nConstruction began on 26 February (N.S. 9 March), 1797 and the castle was solemnly consecrated on 8 November 1800, \"i.e.\" on St. Michael's Day in the Eastern Orthodox calendar, though finishing work on the interior continued until March 1801. In 1800, the bronze equestrian Monument to Peter the Great was set up in front of the castle. This statue had been designed during Peter the Great's lifetime and later, with the casting being completed in 1747 by the architect Bartolomeo Rastrelli. By order of Paul I, the inscription \"From Great Grandson to Great Grandfather\" was made on the pedestal that is decorated with bas-reliefs depicting scenes of two Russian victories over Sweden during the Great Northern War.\n\nPaul I was assassinated only 40 nights after he moved into his newly built castle. He was murdered on 12 March 1801, in his own bedroom, by a group of dismissed officers headed by General Bennigsen. The conspirators forced him to a table, and tried to compel him to sign his abdication. Paul offered some resistance, and one of the assassins struck him with a sword, and he was then strangled and trampled to death. He was succeeded by his son, Emperor Alexander I, who was actually in the palace at the time and was informed of his accession by General Nicholas Zubov, one of the assassins.\n\nAfter Paul's death, the imperial family returned to the Winter Palace; St. Michael's Castle was abandoned and in 1823 was given to the army's Main Engineering School (later to become the Nikolayevskaya Engineering Academy and now the Military Engineering-Technical University). From then on, the building was known as the \"Engineers' Castle\". Between 1838 and 1843, the Russian writer Fyodor Dostoyevsky studied as a cadet at the Main Engineering School. \n\nIn the early 1990s, St. Michael's Castle became a branch of the Russian Museum and now houses its Portrait Gallery, featuring official portraits of the Russian Emperors and Empresses and various dignitaries and celebrities from the late 17th to the early 20th century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26273584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26273584", "title": "Sangria: A Recipe for Love", "text": "Sangria: A Recipe for Love\n\nSangria: A Recipe for Love is a 2009 novel written by Manuela Requena (). It has been described as \"the first ever book about cookery in Fiction form\" and includes 25 recipes. The book won the Best Food Literature Book award for 2009 at the Gourmand World Cookbook Awards in Paris, February 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1707114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1707114", "title": "Schiavo memo", "text": "Schiavo memo\n\nDuring the Terri Schiavo controversy in March 2005, a talking points memo on the controversy was written by Brian Darling, the legal counsel to Republican Senator Mel Martinez of Florida. The memo suggested the Schiavo case offered \"a great political issue\" that would appeal to the party's base (core supporters) and could be used against Senator Bill Nelson, a Democrat from Florida who was up for reelection in 2006, because he had refused to co-sponsor the bill which came to be known as the Palm Sunday Compromise. Bill Nelson was nevertheless reelected as Senator on November 7, 2006 with 60% of the vote.\n\nMartinez stated that he had not read the memo before he inadvertently passed it to Iowa Senator Tom Harkin, a Democratic supporter of the Palm Sunday Compromise legislation which gave federal courts jurisdiction to review the Terri Schiavo case. Then it became public knowledge.\n\nAfter the existence of the memo was reported by ABC News and The Washington Post, Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist denounced the memo and asserted that the Republican Party's interest in the case was solely based on moral grounds. Darling remained silent about his authorship of the memo as commentators from the conservative magazine Weekly Standard and other publications questioned its authenticity. The source of the memo had not been disclosed by either ABC News or the Washington Post. The Washington Post says that it neither implied that the memo originated from a Republican source nor that it was circulated by Republicans, though it did in fact make these assertions when it published the story by reporters Mike Allen and Manuel Roig-Franzia on its wire service on March 19, 2005. The authorship claim was removed before publication of the print version on March 20, 2005. On April 6, 2005, Darling admitted to writing the memo, and resigned his position as legal counsel to Senator Martinez.\n\nResponsibility for its further distribution remains a matter of dispute between Republicans and Democrats.\n"}
{"id": "2220067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2220067", "title": "The Blackjacks", "text": "The Blackjacks\n\nThe Blackjacks were a professional wrestling tag team. The team consisted of Blackjack Mulligan and Blackjack Lanza. After forming in the 1970s, they wrestled in a variety of professional wrestling promotions, including the American Wrestling Association (AWA) and World Wide Wrestling Federation (WWWF). They were inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2006.\n\nThe duo first joined forces in the 1970s. They were managed by Bobby Heenan.\n\nThe Blackjacks won multiple tag team titles, including the WWA Tag Team Championship and two tag-team championships in WCCW. They, however, are most known for winning the WWWF Tag Team Championship (with Lou Albano as their manager) on August 26, 1975 by defeating Dominic DeNucci and Pat Barrett.\n\nOn April 1, 2006, The Blackjacks were inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame by Heenan.\n\nIn early 1997, Mulligan’s son, Barry Windham, and Lanza’s nephew, Justin \"Hawk\" Bradshaw, formed The New Blackjacks in the WWF. They were known as Blackjack Windham and Blackjack Bradshaw, who originally competed as heels, but later as babyfaces. They competed in a four-way tag team match at WrestleMania 13, which was won by The Headbangers. They would then feud with The Godwinns. The team never reached the success of their predecessors and disbanded in January 1998, as Windham turned on Bradshaw.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51628424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51628424", "title": "The Prodigal Son (sculpture)", "text": "The Prodigal Son (sculpture)\n\nThe Prodigal Son is a sculpture by Auguste Rodin. Versions exist in several museums, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55386195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55386195", "title": "Women Who Run with the Wolves", "text": "Women Who Run with the Wolves\n\nWomen Who Run with the Wolves: Myths and Stories of the Wild Woman Archetype is a book by Jungian analyst, author and poet Clarissa Pinkola Estés, Ph.D, published in 1992 by Ballantine Books. It spent 145 weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list over a three-year span, a record at the time.. Estés won a Las Primeras Award from the Mexican American Women's Foundation for being the First Latina on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller list. The book also appeared on other best seller lists, including \"USA Today\", \"Publishers Weekly\", and \"Library Journal\".\n\nEstés had been producing popular audiotapes of her stories and research and was approached by publishers to turn them into a book. \n\nIn \"Women Who Run with the Wolves\", Estés analyses myths, fairy tales, folk tales and stories from different cultures to uncover the Wild Woman archetype of the feminine psyche. The book stems from these interpretations of old tales and creates this wolf-woman parallel, by incorporating her own previous studies that suggest \"wolves and women are relational by nature.\" The notion of the archetype is associated with the work of Carl Jung. Estés produces this new collection of words to describe the female psyche in \"Women who Run with the Wolves\" as it is a psychology of women in the truest sense, a knowing of the soul. \n"}
