{"id": "52580351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52580351", "title": "A Nightmare on Drug Street", "text": "A Nightmare on Drug Street\n\nA Nightmare on Drug Street is a 1989 direct-to-video anti-drug short film directed by Traci Wald Donat. The film introduces three young characters, Felipe (Raymond Cruz), Jill (Joleen Lutz), and Eddie (Adam Jeffries), who are now dead. They each died at around the same time, and now exist only as spirits in some sort of dark purgatory. The cause of their respective deaths is that they each made the mistake of getting involved with drugs, a decision they now regret. The three then proceed to narrate each other's stories about how and why they got involved with drugs, and how it ultimately led to their untimely endings.\n\nJill narrates Felipe's story. Felipe was a 17 year old senior, and a basketball athlete. However, he smoked dope because he heard college kids did it, and he drank beer because his dad drank. One evening, Felipe, while under the influence of both, decided to borrow the family car without permission, and go on a joyride around town, taking his best friend, who was also under the influence, and his reluctant younger brother along. However, Felipe's increasingly erratic behavior and near misses while driving, caused his younger brother to become fed up, and he demanded to be let out of the car, to which Felipe grudgingly obliged. Felipe's brother's life was thus, spared, however he was not spared the horror of witnessing the gruesome deaths of Felipe and his friend from an inevitable car wreck only a moment later.\n\nEddie narrates Jill's story. Jill was a 14 year old high school student, who was quite shy. One evening, she had a party for all her classmates, where she met an attractive new student. This student took her on a walk outside alone, where he introduced her to cocaine, as a mood enhancer. Jill was reluctant to try it, but the new student claimed it would one day be legalized. After she snorted an initial dose, Jill was enamored with the feeling it gave her, and quickly became addicted, thus beginning a major downward spiral. She began trading off all her money and possessions to drug dealers to obtain more cocaine, even resorting to stealing from family and friends, becoming increasingly and majorly depressed the whole way. Finally, one day after a bad but desperate trade with a sleazy dealer for another gram of cocaine, Jill finished it off quickly, and died that evening, by suicide from an overdose of cocaine and unidentified pills.\n\nFelipe narrates Eddie's story. Eddie was an 11 year old, elementary school student, and aspiring scientist. One day, while at his friends' house, he was pressured by them to experiment with some crack cocaine, and Eddie reluctantly tried a dose, and went home, where his mother sensed something about Eddie was off. To deflect any further parental suspicion, Eddie was instructed via telephone to smoke a second dose to undo the effects of the first one. That evening, at dinner, Eddie's mother and father both noticed something about him was still off, but they dismissed it as a cold or allergy. Suddenly, without warning, Eddie collapsed and died of cardiac arrest, a result of the crack's effect on a congenital heart defect, that no one realized he had.\n\nAfter the three tell their stories, they give the viewer tips, on how to make smarter decisions to either avoid drugs altogether, and how to get help if started, so that the same fate doesn't await them.\n"}
{"id": "15460040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15460040", "title": "Academy of Management", "text": "Academy of Management\n\nThe Academy of Management (AOM; the Academy) is a professional association for scholars of management and organizations that was established in 1936. It publishes several academic journals, organizes conferences, and provides others forums for management professors and managers to communicate research and ideas.\n\nSince 1994, the Academy has been headquartered on the Briarcliff Manor, New York campus of Pace University.\n\nUpon registration, members of the Academy are granted memberships in two of its 25 divisions and interest groups; they may then pay an additional fee to join more. Each division focuses on a certain aspect of management, and each division has its own governing officers. As of August 2015, these divisions and interest groups include:\nThe publications of the Academy include the following:\n\n\nThe first three journals were ranked in the top 40 business journals in the world in 2006 by the \"Financial Times\".\n\nThe Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management draws more than 10,000 students, academics, scholars, and professionals in the scholarly management and organization space. It provides a forum for sharing research and expertise in all management disciplines through invited and competitive paper sessions, panels, symposia, workshops, speakers, and special programs for doctoral students.\n\nThe 77th Annual Meeting of the Academy of Management was held August 4–8, 2017, in Atlanta, GA.\n\n"}
{"id": "34826681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34826681", "title": "Academy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo", "text": "Academy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo\n\nAcademy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo (Bosnian: \"Akademija scenskih umjentosti Sarajevo\") is a faculty within the University of Sarajevo in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, dedicated to the performing arts.\n\nThe Academy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo was officially opened in 1981 with the inaugural Department of Acting. This was followed by the opening of the Department of Directing in 1989, the Department of Dramaturgy in 1994 and the Department of Production in 2010.\n\nAn important segment of the academy's practice is its cooperation with the Open Stage \"Obala\", a prominent Sarajevo theater, where students present their works along with professional actors, directors and writers.\n\nThe need for the Academy for Performing Arts arose because, according to data from the year 1981, Bosnia and Herzegovina theaters had around 180 employees of which only 24 had the appropriate academic qualifications. Therefore, it was decided to establish Academy for Performing Arts in Sarajevo which was open to students from Bosnia and Herzegovina and other republics of former Yugoslavia. Academy of Performing Arts officially started working on December 2, 1981.\n\nIn 2010, it was announced that the Sarajevo Canton and the Cantonal Development Institute would be funding the construction of a 10 million KM building and center for the Academy of Performing Arts, primarily because working conditions for students and faculty alike have been subpar for the past decade. Construction on the new center began in mid-2010 in the Centar Municipality.\n\nAcademy of Performing Arts in Sarajevo alumni include Oscar, Berlin Film Festival, and Cannes Film Festival award winners. Some of the distinguished alumni and staff include:\n\n"}
{"id": "28832428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28832428", "title": "Advanced disaster management simulator", "text": "Advanced disaster management simulator\n\nThe ADMS (advanced disaster management simulator) is an emergency and disaster management training simulation system designed to train incident commanders, first responders, and incident command teams in a real-time, interactive virtual reality(VR) environment. ADMS was first introduced by Environmental Tectonics Corporation (ETCC:US) in 1992. The development of ADMS was in response to the crash of British Airtours Flight 28M at the Manchester airport in 1985, in which 55 people died. Following the accident research indicated that first responder training should include realistic scenarios. The first ADMS system was produced for the UK Ministry of Defence, and delivered to Royal Air Force’s (RAF) Manston Facility. Since its inception, ADMS has evolved into a modular, expandable disaster simulation platform, with systems in use worldwide.\n\nThe successful use of virtual reality simulation in disaster management training initiatives is a popular area for research. It has been found that when trainees are able to participate, both verbally and physically in a training exercise, retention is 90%, in great contrast to a 10% retention rate of what they hear, and 50% retention rate of what they see and hear.\n\nTraditionally classroom lectures, tabletop exercises and live-training drills have been utilized for training. While these teaching methodologies are effective, virtual reality simulation seems to have bridged the gap between them. Virtual reality offers the opportunity to create an emergency situation that could not otherwise be experienced due to safety, cost and environmental factors. From a safety standpoint, training in a synthetic environment allows the student to experiment while carrying out dangerous actions, and offers the ability to repeat the exercise until the trainee feels confident and prepared for real-life incidents.\n\nThe ADMS relies on a physics engine and built in artificial intelligence to provide realistic, 3D emergency situations. The Disaster scenarios include algorithms which take into account: type of threat, time of day, precipitation, wind, visibility, condition of casualties, terrain, and traffic and bystander behavior ADMS training exercises are unscripted and open-ended, requiring interactive decision making and participation from the users to affect the outcome of the training exercise. The development, escalation, or resolution of the situation is determined by the trainees' decisions and the use of intelligent resources they command.\n\nADMS is a networked framework and a family of applications which may be run on a single station or as a multi-user system with several networked stations giving independent access to several viewpoints and control interfaces within the same environment and scenario. ADMS projects its simulations using panoramic high-definition multimedia interface, visual displays and directional sound. The simulation engine includes key models including: artificial intelligence, physics, logic, and messaging and applications comprising a visual engine, sound engine, messaging daemon and graphical user interface.\n\nADMS environments are developed in either geo-typical or geo-specific environments. Geo-specific environments are created using exact 3D modeling of the specified location, and can include buildings, streets, vehicles, terrain and people, specific airports or schools, or entire cities.\n\n\nOn January 27, 2009, the U.S. Army Program Executive Office for Simulation, Training and Instrumentation (PEO STRI) awarded ETC STOC II eligibility for the ADMS. STOC II is an ID/IQ (Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity) contract vehicle with a ceiling of $17.5 billion over a period of 10 years. All branches of the military are eligible to utilize STOC II to quickly obtain simulation and training solutions from a panel of pre-qualified companies. The purpose of this contract vehicle was to provide an efficient method for the U.S. military and its coalition service members to acquire what they need.\n\nAdditionally, ADMS was designed to be NIMS compliant. The National Incident Management System has developed a unified approach to allow governmental agencies to work in unison with the private sector with the common goal of preparing for, preventing, responding to, recovering from, and mitigating the effects of incidents of any cause, size, location, or complexity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58746140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58746140", "title": "Anne Watson (mathematics educator)", "text": "Anne Watson (mathematics educator)\n\nAnne Watson is a British mathematics educator. She is a professor emeritus in the department of education at the University of Oxford, where she was a fellow of Linacre College, Oxford. She is a Fellow of the International Society for Design and Development in Education and of the Institute for Mathematics and its Applications.\n\nWatson was a comprehensive school teacher before becoming an academic. She has been a Quaker \"off and on since the early 1980s\" when she was a teacher, and belongs to the Steering Group of the Quaker Values in Education Group of the Society of Friends.\n\nWatson has expressed opposition to plans to disallow calculators on the National Curriculum assessment, and to grade the assessment by assigning partial credit to wrong answers using traditional calculation techniques but not for wrong answers using other methods, arguing that this emphasis on rote learning \"works against the flexible number sense that we would want all children to develop\".\n\nWatson is the co-author of:\n\nWith D. Rowe she is the editor of \"Experience and Faith in Education: essays on Quaker perspectives\" (Trentham Press, to appear).\n"}
{"id": "2171252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2171252", "title": "Architect Registration Examination", "text": "Architect Registration Examination\n\nThe Architect Registration Examination (ARE) is the professional licensure examination adopted by the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, and three U.S. territories (Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands). The exam is also accepted by 11 provincial and territorial architectural associations for architectural registration in Canada. The ARE assesses candidates on the knowledge, skills, and abilities required for provided services in the practice of architecture.\n\nThe ARE is developed and maintained by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB). NCARB currently offers two versions of the computer-based exam, ARE 4.0, which will retire on June 30, 2018, and ARE 5.0. Both versions are administered in Prometric test centers across the United States and Canada, as well as London, Abu Dhabi, and Hong Kong.\n\nThe earliest examinations were written and scored by each individual state board. Practicing architects, educators, and specialists in other disciplines were organized to prepare and score these tests. Since each state prepared its own test specifications, test questions, and passing standard, there was little uniformity among the boards on examination, no effective reciprocity system, and no equal protection for the public across the nation.\n\nAs NCARB grew, it organized delegates from its Member Boards into working groups during its Annual Meetings to address the problem of exam uniformity. Their efforts eventually led to agreement on a syllabus of written examination subjects. Subsequently, the length of each test and the dates of administration were agreed on, and this concurrence served to achieve the goal of greater consistency in examination questions and scoring.\n\nBy the late 1950s, standardized testing had made impressive progress. The NCARB examination committees studied the latest developments and converted sections of the syllabus to a multiple-choice format by the mid-1960s and made them available to all of NCARB Member Boards.\n\nIn 1979, NCARB conducted an extensive \"task analysis and validation study\" that led to the development of the forerunner of today's ARE. At that time, candidates were required to take all nine divisions over a four-day period and the exam was only offered once a year in major cities across the United States.\n\nIn the late 1980s, as the practice of architecture moved into the computer age, NCARB began to develop a computer-based exam. After a decade of research and development, the last paper-and-pencil test was issued in 1996, and the computer-based exam rolled out in 1997.\n\nNCARB conducted comprehensive Practice Analysis studies in 2001, 2007, and 2012 that led to improvements of the ARE. These improvements have since been rolled out in ARE 3.0, ARE 3.1, ARE 4.0, and ARE 5.0, which launched November 1, 2016. ARE 4.0 will retire on June 30, 2018. [2]\n\nBefore an ARE division can be scheduled, candidates must be approved to test and receive eligibilities from their state board. The majority of states participate in the Direct Eligibility Program, which enables NCARB to manage a candidate’s eligibilities. Most states require completion of a professional degree from the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB) (B.Arch or M.Arch), and some require candidates to record professional experience before testing. \nA full list of requirements for each state is available on the NCARB website.\n\nIn order to take the ARE, candidates must meet the requirements of the registration board he or she plans to receive an initial license from, establish an NCARB Record, and receive an Authorization to Test (ATT).\n\nEach division of the ARE is taken separately at a Prometric test center. Divisions are scored by Prometric as either pass or fail and then sent to the jurisdiction that grants the candidate the authorization to test, which then notifies the candidate. A pass score is valid for five years, sometime less depending on the jurisdiction's rules. Prior to October 2014, a candidate who failed a division would not be eligible to retake that division for six months, NCARB shortened that time to 60 days for all tests taken since August.\n\nUnder the requirements of NCARB's Rolling Clock, a candidate must pass all divisions of the ARE within five years. Some jurisdictions require the exam be completed in less time.\n\nThe ARE assesses candidates’ knowledge, skills, and ability to practice architecture independently. It focuses on those services that most affect the health, safety, and welfare of the public. Because of this, the exams are rigorous and require demonstration of competency in each of the testing areas.\n\nNCARB currently offers one version of the exam: ARE 5.0.\n\nThe ARE 3.0 was introduced in 1998. Use was discontinued in 2003. Utilized a similar structure to 4.0. Graphic vignettes and multiple choice questions were on separate tests.\n\nThe ARR 3.1 was introduced in 2003. Use was discontinued in 2009.\n\n\nThe ARE 4.0 was introduced in July 2008 and consists of seven divisions:[5]\n\nARE 5.0 was introduced in November 2016 and consists of six divisions. These divisions include multiple-choice questions, check-all-that-apply, fill-in-the-blank, hotspot, drag-and-place, and case study questions.\n\nAll NCARB tests are held in strict security and confidence and are protected by U.S. copyright laws. Before beginning the test, candidates are required to accept NCARB's Confidentiality Agreement, which prohibits any disclosure of exam content.\n\nCandidates found to have violated the Confidentiality Agreement are referred to NCARB's Committee on Professional Conduct. The Committee reviews each case and then recommends a disciplinary action. The cases are then forwarded to the NCARB Board of Directors for review and final disciplinary action. All disciplinary actions taken by the Board of Directors are final and become a part of each individual's permanent NCARB Record. Individual candidates may also be subject to additional disciplinary measures from their state board.\n\nWhen exam content is disclosed, NCARB works with the test consultant, Prometric, to determine the impact on the exam. If NCARB finds that it is necessary to remove (or turn off) content, the ability to continuously deliver the ARE is seriously jeopardized.\n\nAll candidates preparing to take ARE 4.0 should download the ARE 4.0 Guidelines. This free publication contains an overview of the ARE 4.0 divisions, as well as information about the practice programs, the rolling clock, and maintaining exam eligibility. Additionally, NCARB offers free exam guides and practice programs for each of the seven divisions, available on its website.\n\nAll candidates preparing to take ARE 5.0 should download the ARE 5.0 Guidelines. This free publication contains an overview of the ARE 5.0 divisions. \nThe ARE 5.0 Handbook, a free demo exam, short videos about the new question types, and a list of references for further study can be found at NCARB.org.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "734143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734143", "title": "Bachelor of Accountancy", "text": "Bachelor of Accountancy\n\nThe Bachelor of Accountancy, also known as Bachelor of Accounting, is the principal academic degree in accountancy in several countries, and is often the only (undergraduate) degree recognised for subsequent practice as a professional accountant; see First professional degree. It is abbreviated as B.Acy., B.Acc., or B. Accty.. It is also sometimes titled Bachelor of Accounting Science (B.Acc.Sci.) or \"Baccalaureus \" (B.Compt.).\n\nThe B.Acy. is extremely specialized: the curriculum requires study sufficient for professional practice (often at the major-level) in financial accounting, management accounting, auditing, \"and\" taxation. The curriculum also includes intermediate coursework in business law and economics, and general coverage of management theory, and business mathematics and -statistics. The degree is thus not to be confused with a B.B.A. in Accounting or B.Com. in Accounting, which are general business degrees with accounting as an area of concentration; for discussion, see . Some programs allow for specializations in topics such as Tax Accountancy, Auditing or Forensic Accountancy.\n\nDue to the specialised nature of the B.Acy., it is a professional degree course that is offered infrequently. In the United States, it is likely to be a four-year undergraduate degree. In other parts of the world, such as Singapore, it will be a three-year undergraduate degree. In Malta, it is a two-year course that can be taken after qualifying in Bachelor of Commerce only for students who obtain exceptional grades in their previous course. Most public universities in South Africa offer the degree or a variant, often as a postgraduate Honours degree.\n\nAfter completion of the Bachelor of Accountancy, students typically go on to work as accountants in industry, and/or pursue professional accountant status. When the degree is recognized for this purpose, graduates will therefore pursue the CPA or C.A. (or other) designations, and thus take up \"articles\" at an accredited for training, so as to meet the relevant work experience requirements, and will then also sit the associated Professional Examination.\n\nNote that in the United States, a bachelor's degree in accountancy is generally not sufficient for practice as a professional accountant. Also, employers in industry generally prefer to hire applicants with a master's in accountancy (or an M.B.A. with a concentration in accounting) and/or with professional certification. Accountancy graduates intending to work as accountants will therefore commence with the Master of Accountancy; an accelerated program, or an advanced program allowing for specialized / additional elective work, is typically available to these students.\n"}
{"id": "31197299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31197299", "title": "Beautiful Boy (2010 film)", "text": "Beautiful Boy (2010 film)\n\nBeautiful Boy is a 2010 drama film starring Michael Sheen and Maria Bello.\n\nThe film opens up with home videos of a husband and wife at the beach with their young son. A young man reads a short story about a boy and girl; saying that they didn't know it, but their lives would one day irrevocably change. Bill (Michael Sheen) and Kate (Maria Bello) are a married couple who are tightly wound and devoted to their work. Bill is a businessman, and Kate proofreads books for a living. The only thing keeping them together is their eighteen-year-old son Sam (Kyle Gallner), who is having trouble adjusting to college.\n\nOne morning, it's reported on the news that there has been a shooting spree at Sam's school. They are then visited by the police who inform them that Sam is not only dead, but that he was the gunman. Kate refuses to believe that their son would do something so horrible, and spends the night tidying up Sam's room as if nothing has happened. As the news media descends upon the couple, Bill and Kate decide to stay with Kate's brother Eric (Alan Tudyk) and his wife Trish (Moon Bloodgood). The next morning, Eric and Trish's son Dylan (Cody Wai-Ho Lee) turns on the television to see a video made by Sam about the impending massacre. Bill then decides to issue a public statement, saying that they are both deeply sorry over what has happened, and ask for their privacy as they endeavor to get their lives back on track. They have a small funeral with only family present.\n\nTrish soon becomes agitated at Kate's nit-picking, and her attempts to mother Dylan, but Eric says that she has to be sensitive to their situation since Sam was her only child. They eventually leave, saying they are going to visit a friend, but check into a motel instead. The manager (Meat Loaf) not knowing who they are, makes a comment about Sam and his \"monster family\". Bill goes back to the house where he finds a teenage boy in Sam's room. They have a short scuffle where Bill cuts his hand, and the boy calls him a \"psycho\". He returns to the motel with their laptop, and finds a video from Sam. He and Kate view it together; Sam only says \"mom and dad , I'm sorry, please don't hate me\".\n\nBill and Kate get into an argument about what could have caused Sam to kill all those innocent people. Bill lashes out at Kate for always critiquing every decision that Sam made, but she says that he was never there for them because he was always so busy working. Bill ends up saying that he wishes that Sam was never born, and Kate leaves.\n\nShe goes back to their house for the first time since the shooting, and looks through Sam's room. Bill meets with his boss Harry (Bruce French), who agrees that he can return to work next week. While grocery shopping, Kate runs into her young co-worker Cooper (Austin Nichols). They go back to the house, and she catches him looking through Sam's short stories. He says that he is writing a piece about the shooting, but that he wanted to portray Sam in a more human light by learning more about him. Bill finally returns to work, but feels alienated by the rest of the staff. Harry tells Bill to take more time off to see a therapist, so he quits.\n\nBill later visits the cemetery to find Sam's gravestone vandalized, with the word \"killer\" written on it. He breaks down both physically and emotionally as he tries to scrub the word off with his bandaged hand. Kate reads all of Sam's stories, and goes to Sam's gravestone as well. She gets a call from the motel manager about Bill, and finds him curled up in their old room. Kate embraces the emotionally distraught Bill, and takes him home.\n\nSam's voice is heard again as he ends his short story about the boy and girl. He says that no matter what they do, their lives will never be the same.\n\n\nFilming took place in Los Angeles and Santa Clarita, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "14681402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14681402", "title": "Best Student of Mongolia award", "text": "Best Student of Mongolia award\n\nThe Ministry of Education Culture and Science of Mongolia, Ministry of Finance of Mongolia, New World Foundation of Mongolia and Young Leader Club together with the Mongolian National Television annually select the Best Student of the certain year. To be nominated, the student has to be pursuing undergraduate studies in Mongolia. The award ceremony has been organized for the last decade.\nIt is the most prestigious award that can be given to a student pursuing an undergraduate degree in Mongolia. Its recipients are awarded a full scholarship to study in a prestigious university anywhere in the world. The Ministry of Education covers the full financial support. \nThe award ceremony has always been broadcast on Mongolian National Television (Mongolian National Broadcaster- MNB).\n\n"}
{"id": "35059164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35059164", "title": "Bharti Foundation", "text": "Bharti Foundation\n\nBharti Foundation is the philanthropic arm of Bharti Enterprises, an Indian business conglomerate based in New Delhi. It conducts free programs in both primary and higher education for the underprivileged children, with a particular focus on girls. The Satya Bharti School Program, started in 2006, is the flagship program of Bharti Foundation.\n\nThe foundation, based in Gurgaon, India, is governed by 16 board members, including Sunil Mittal as its chairman and Rakesh Mittal as its co-chairman. The foundation has been recognized by many societies and award committees for its corporate social responsibility programs. Some of them include the Global CSR Award, Asian CSR Award, The Indian Education Award 2011, and World Education Award 2011.\n"}
{"id": "12006278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12006278", "title": "Christine Johnson (actress)", "text": "Christine Johnson (actress)\n\nChristine Johnson Smith (September 8, 1911 – June 9, 2010), usually credited as Christine Johnson, was an American contralto opera singer and actress who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and other opera houses. She is best known, however, for creating the role of Nettie Fowler in the original Broadway production of \"Carousel\".\n\nJohnson was born in Hopkinsville, Kentucky and moved to Owensboro, Kentucky after her freshman year of high school, graduating from Owensboro High School in 1929. She showed early promise, starring in school plays and singing in churches. After high school, she studied voice at the Nashville Conservatory of Music and sang for radio station WSM in Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nJohnson moved to New York City in 1937 and began to work with NBC's Radio City Music Hall and Lyn Murray and the Columbia Symphony Orchestra at CBS, sometimes touring in concerts in North America. She studied voice and operatic repertoire in New York with Ernst Knoth and Sidney Dietch. In 1941, she sang Dorabella in \"Così fan tutte\", opening the Tanglewood opera house at Lenox, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1942, she received good notices for the role of Mrs. Page in \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\". Other roles followed for her, with the New Opera Company of New York under Emil Cooper, at San Francisco Opera and elsewhere, in \"Macbeth\", \"The Fair at Sorochyntsi\", \"The Queen of Spades\", \"Cavalleria rusticana\", \"Carmen\", \"La forza del destino\", \"The Girl of the Golden West\", the title role in \"Roberta\", Azucena in \"Il trovatore\" and Maddalena in \"Rigoletto\". During this period, she also sang at New York's Town Hall.\n\nIn 1943, Johnson won the Metropolitan Opera Auditions of the Air which led to her becoming the youngest person ever to sing the role of Erda in Richard Wagner's \"Das Rheingold\" at that opera house. She appeared on CBS radio's \"The Squibb Show\" twice in 1944. There she sang \"It's A Lovely Day\" and \"My Heart's in the Highlands\" with Lyn Murray and His Orchestra.\n\nIn 1945, Johnson created the role of Nettie Fowler in \"Carousel\". Rodgers and Hammerstein wrote \"You'll Never Walk Alone\", which has become a standard, and \"June is Busting Out All Over\" especially for her. She also sang the role on the show's original cast album. Johnson stayed with the show for hundreds of performances and then toured and studied in Italy for a time. She rejoined \"Carousel\" during the national tour and continued as Nettie through its Broadway revival in 1949.\n\nAfter \"Carousel\" closed, Johnson moved back to Owensboro, where she married surgeon Robert Smith in 1950 and raised two daughters, Robin and Nancy. She taught voice for many years, and one of her pupils was Florence Henderson. She also served on local arts committees and participated in some local productions. Johnson's husband died in 1959, and she later worked for Texas Gas Transmission Corporation until her retirement.\n\nJohnson died on June 9, 2010 at the age of 98, and was buried at Rosehill Elmwood Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45289704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45289704", "title": "Concho Indian Boarding School", "text": "Concho Indian Boarding School\n\nConcho Indian Boarding School (also known as the Cheyenne-Arapaho Boarding School at Concho or Concho Indian School and home to the Concho Demonstration School) was a boarding school for members of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes and later opened to other Native American students. It existed from 1909 to 1983. It was located in central Oklahoma, approximately 1 mile south of Concho, Oklahoma and 4 miles north of El Reno, Oklahoma. The name of the town and school is the Spanish word for \"shell\" and was named for the Indian agent, Charles E. Shell.\n\nConcho was developed to provide a means of integrating and assimilating American Indian children into mainstream society. It, like other federal boarding schools, was run on a strict military model. Students were wakened at 5 a.m., performed military drills and formations, ate breakfast and were in class by 6:00 each morning. Academics, including reading, writing, and arithmetic, were studied for half the day and the remainder of the day consisted of labor.\n\nTrades and farming were taught to boys and girls were taught domestic labor and nursing. A large experimental farm was maintained, where the children were instructed in conservation and planting techniques. Boys milked cows and girls helped prepare all of the meals and sewed clothing. Discipline was strict and infractions, like speaking in their native language rather than English, were punished by things like breaking large rocks into smaller rocks or sawing wood. Each infraction required punishment of one hour of labor.\n\nInitially, the school offered education to the 6th grade and students would have to transfer to Carlisle, Chilocco or Haskell Institute for secondary education. By around the 1920s, the school curriculum mirrored public education being offered throughout the country and included sports, music, art, and a full course of educational subjects. By the time the school closed in the early 1980s, it offered instruction for grades one - eight and was predominantly attended by orphans and students who had difficult home environments.\n\nThe first school was opened at the Darlington Agency on the Cheyenne-Arapaho Reservation in 1871 by the Hicksite (Liberal) Friends and Orthodox Quakers and was called the Cheyenne-Arapaho Boarding School. In 1872, the facility was built with federal funds, but run by the Quakers. Few Cheyenne children attended the school and as a means to entice them, a partition was erected to divide the classroom into separate areas for the Arapaho and Cheyenne students. In 1879 the facility was renamed the Arapaho Manual Labor and Boarding School and a new facility was built for the Cheyenne students located at Caddo Springs, which was called the Cheyenne Manual Labor and Boarding School. Within 5 years, it was reported that the children at the agency schools were responsible for raising 211 cattle and hogs and cultivating 130 acres of land.\n\nIn 1881, a new school, called the Darlington Mission School was built and run by the General Conference Mennonites but a fire which occurred on 19 February 1882 destroyed the building, taking the life of the missionary's infant son and three Indian children. Federal funds and donations from the Mennonite Mission Board were secured to rebuild the mission school by December, 1882. The Mennonites had the same problems as the Quakers had had in trying educating the two tribes together, and opened a fourth school in 1882 called Cantonment. By 1884, the agent reported that attendance in the four schools represented 66 students at the Arapaho boarding school, 22 students at Cantonment, 71 students at the Cheyenne boarding school and 28 students at Darlington.\n\nAfter 1891 federal policy shifted and began to require more standardization, attendance quotas and less use of federal funds for church \"contracted\" institutions. By the mid 1890s only about half of the school-age children on the Cheyenne-Arapaho Reservation were attending school. An experiment with enrolling Indian children in the public school system and offsetting the costs to the schools was attempted in 1896-1897, but was discontinued. Declining attendance at Darlington forced its permanent closure in June, 1898 and Cantonment closed in 1901. In 1908 both the Arapaho Manual Labor and Boarding School and the Cheyenne Manual Labor and Boarding School were closed and the facilities sold by the government. The Darlington Agency was also closed and relocated to Concho in 1909.\n\nThe new school Concho Boarding School opened in 1909 and re-implemented the farming model, which continued during the Great Depression. In 1932 the Seger Indian Training School, which had incorporated the students of the Red Moon School in 1917, closed and its students were transferred to Concho. Total Concho Boarding School students for 1932 were 133 boys and 117 girls. However, the school struggled during the Dust Bowl period, where between 1933 and 1937 there were 362 dust storms in the immediate area, coupled with tornadoes and flash flooding. As part of the Works Progress Administration President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed an Executive Order in 1933 which authorized the Indian Service to establish a Civilian Conservation Corps camp at Concho to improve the grounds and buildings, implement soil erosion controls, and develop water resources. The agency buildings were razed and rebuilt in 1933 and a hospital was constructed in 1941.\n\nThe era of the federal Indian Termination Policy from the 1940s through the 1960s saw threats to close tribal schools and Concho was not immune. Richard Boynton and George Levi, of the Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes Business Committee and Robert Goombi of the Kiowa Tribe of Oklahoma sent pleas to Oklahoma Congressmen to fight school closure. The bid to save the school was successful as some of the buildings were converted into a facility to assist troubled students in 1962. In 1968, a new school complex was built for the boarding school, featuring a pioneering teaching program which was to be operated in conjunction with Southwestern State College. The program was designed to overcome language and cultural barriers and offer Indian students access to college materials and individual instruction.\n\nThe school was closed after the graduation ceremonies held 14 May 1982 due to federal budget cuts. Though parents and the tribe protested the closure and obtained an injunction to stop it, at the end of the 1983 school term, the school permanently closed. The school buildings were returned to the tribe from the BIA in 1985 for use as business enterprises. In 2015, plans were in the works to convert some of the buildings to a fitness center.\n\nIn 1962, a new system for streamlining troubled students back into the school systems was set up. Earl C Intolubbe, a Choctaw who was working as an Education Guidance Specialist for the Bureau of Indian Affairs set up a model school at Concho. The idea was to keep classrooms small so that children received individual attention. Students who had dropped out of other schools were placed in the special program. Some returned within weeks or months to their prior boarding schools or public schools, and some stayed for years. After 6 years of operation, with a 60% success rate, Intolubbe retired in 1968 when it was suggested that the Demonstration School be combined with the Boarding School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46950720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46950720", "title": "Conservatory of Bari", "text": "Conservatory of Bari\n\nThe Niccolò Piccinni Conservatory () was founded by the violinist and music critic Giovanni Capaldi in 1925, with headquarters in Villa Bucciero, Bari, Italy. It was the fourteenth music school to arise in Italy. First created as a music-education high school (\"Liceo Musicale\"), in 1937 it was converted into a conservatory, and was named in honor of eighteenth-century Italian composer Niccolò Piccinni.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "38810563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38810563", "title": "Council for Scientific Policy", "text": "Council for Scientific Policy\n\nThe Council for Scientific Policy, 1965-1972, was a council set up in the United Kingdom by the secretary of state. The council advised the secretary of state on all aspects of his responsibilities with reference to science policy.\n\nThe main purpose of the Council for Scientific Policy was to advise the government on the resources for science. Before 1965 this advice was given by the Advisory Council on Scientific Policy. The council was instructed to build a constructive relationship with other research councils, and the Ministry of Technology and the Royal Society. The secretariat was run by the Department of Education and Science (DES).\n\nChair persons:\n\nMost members were eminent scientists drawn from universities and industry. A prominent member was Derek Barton FRS, FRSE an organic chemist and Nobel Prize laureate. Also included were assessors from the Medical Research Council and Agricultural Research Council, representatives from Department of Education and Science, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, and the University Grants Committee, the Cabinet Office and the Ministry of Technology. The council's primary interest was research, carried out in universities and by the other research councils. The council had a number of committees, sub-committees and working parties. In 1972 the Council for Scientific Policy was wound up and most of its functions passed to the Advisory Board for the Research Councils. In 1992, responsibility for scientific matters was transferred to the new Office of Science and Technology.\n"}
{"id": "274487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=274487", "title": "Darkness in El Dorado", "text": "Darkness in El Dorado\n\nDarkness in El Dorado: How Scientists and Journalists Devastated the Amazon (2000) is a polemical book by author Patrick Tierney, in which the author accuses geneticist James Neel and anthropologist Napoleon Chagnon of conducting human research without regard for their subjects' well-being while conducting long-term ethnographic field work among the indigenous Yanomamö, in the Amazon Basin between Venezuela and Brazil. He also wrote that the researchers had exacerbated a measles epidemic among the Native Americans. Tierney also claims that Jacques Lizot and Kenneth Good committed acts of sexual impropriety with Yanomamö.\n\nWhile the book was positively reviewed and well received at first, later investigations by multiple independent organizations found Tierney's main allegations to be false and libelous.\n\nClaims made in \"Darkness in El Dorado\" included the following:\n\nIn 2000, Tierney published \"Darkness in El Dorado\", which accused geneticist James Neel and anthropologist Napoleon Chagnon of exacerbating a measles epidemic among the Yanomamo people, among other damning allegations. This work initially received good reviews and was nominated for a National Book Award. Many of Tierney's accusations against Chagnon were accepted as fact in a \"New York Times\" book review by science journalist John Horgan; the resulting political controversy resulted in Chagnon's early retirement. Anthropologist John Tooby of \"Slate\", thought the book was internally inconsistent and suggested that it should have been identified as fiction.\n\nSeveral inquiries related to Tierney's allegations against the researchers were conducted by the American Anthropological Association (AAA) and outside evaluators. Tierney's book was condemned by a number of academic researchers and professional associations, including the National Academy of Sciences, and the American Society of Human Genetics. The conclusion was that Tierney had fraudulently presented his allegations.\n\nTierney's charges against Neel and Chagnon were initially investigated by the Peacock Commission, later known as the El Dorado Task Force, formed by the AAA. It supported Tierney and questioned the conduct of Neel and Chagnon; its findings were accepted by the AAA board in May 2002.\n\nBecause of dissension within the organization, the AAA subsequently requested an outside investigative team. It said in its preliminary report that the \"book appears to be deliberately fraudulent\", and that \"Patrick Tierney has misconstrued or misrepresented his primary sources to a considerable degree in an effort to support his allegations.\" The investigators concluded it was not Chagnon who committed any wrongdoing, but Tierney, who fraudulently altered evidence to support a story he either at best imagined or at worst manufactured.\n\nIn 2004 Thomas A. Gregor and Daniel R. Gross published their investigation of the AAA's reviews. In 2005 they called for the membership of the AAA to rescind the organization's support of the book. This resolution passed overwhelmingly, 846 to 338.\n\nA detailed investigation of Tierney's charges by a panel set up by the University of Michigan found the most serious charges to have no foundation and others to have been exaggerated. The Provost's office of the University of Michigan in November 2000 refuted almost all of Tierney's claims. Sponsel and Turner, the two scientists who originally touted the book's claims, admitted that their charge against Neel \"remains an inference in the present state of our knowledge: there is no 'smoking gun' in the form of a written text or recorded speech by Neel.\"\n\nAlice Dreger, an historian of medicine and science, and an outsider to the debate, concluded after a year of research that Tierney's claims about Chagnon and Neel were false. She wrote that the AAA was complicit and irresponsible in helping spread these falsehoods and not protecting \"scholars from baseless and sensationalistic charges\".\n\nThe AAA rescinded its support of the book and acknowledged fraudulent, improper and unethical conduct by Tierney. The association admitted that \"in the course of its investigation, in its publications, in the venues of its national meetings and its web site, [the AAA] condoned a culture of accusation and allowed serious but unevaluated charges to be posted on its website and expressed in its newsletter and annual meetings\" and that its \"report has damaged the reputations of its targets, distracted public attention from the real sources of the Yanomami tragedy and misleadingly suggested that anthropologists are responsible for Yanomami suffering\".\n\nThe accusations of medical improprieties contained in Tierney's book were investigated by the Medical Team of the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and found to be false.\n\nSince the controversy over \"Darkness in El Dorado\", Tierney has kept a low profile. He has rarely appeared in public to defend his work.\n\nBoth Dreger and Chagnon state that the \"dossier\" of accusations made against Chagnon by Tierney were attributed to Leda Martins, a Venezuelan anthropologist, Martins had informed Dreger that she had not actually written the dossier, but merely translated it into Portuguese, at which point it was attributed to her as if she were the author.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "477164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=477164", "title": "Doreen Bird", "text": "Doreen Bird\n\nDoreen Bird MA FISTD ARAD (27 January 1928 – 4 March 2004) was a British dance teacher and founder of the Doreen Bird College of Performing Arts in Sidcup, Kent (now Southeast London). She was a fellow, examiner, lecturer, committee and council member of the ISTD, life member of the RAD, and Honorary MA. Prior to her death from Leukaemia in 2004, she had been studying towards a Ph.D. As well as being a respected dance figure in the United Kingdom, Bird also travelled the World as a lecturer and adjudicator specialising in dance and musical theatre. The college which Bird founded is now recognised Internationally as a centre of excellence for dance and performing arts, with its students working worldwide in high-profile areas of the performing industry including West End and Broadway theatre.\n\nIn 1945, Bird founded the Doreen Bird School of Dance, the predecessor of today's Bird College of Dance, Music & Theatre Performance. Bird initially taught her students in her parents' living room then a local church hall, before opening a full-time performing arts course at permanent premises in Sidcup. This became the Doreen Bird College of Performing Arts and Bird remained Principal of the College until her retirement in 1998, when the name Bird College was adopted under its new Principal. The college is one of the United Kingdom's leading institutions for specialist dance and musical theatre training, with many ex-students of the college appearing in dance and theatre Worldwide including West End and Broadway theatre. The college now operates a range of courses including the National Diploma in Musical Theatre and the BA (Hons) Degree in Dance & Theatre Performances, both courses being established during Bird's tenure as Principal. The College has continued to expand since Bird died, becoming the first college of its kind in the UK to offer an MA Degree (by research), as subject specialist provider for the University of Greenwich. Since October 2007, the college has also been the official provider of Music and Dance services for the London Borough of Bexley.\n\nDoreen Bird was a member of the ISTD, an international dance examination board based in London, England. As a life member of the organisation, she served as a teacher, examiner, lecturer, committee and council member. She was appointed an examiner of the Modern Theatre Branch in 1957, National Dance Branch in 1958 and Imperial Ballet Branch in 1964, travelling the world as a representative of the society. Bird served as a member of the ISTD Grand Council from 1970 to 1975, and became a committee member of the Modern Theatre Branch in 1970, a post which she held for sixteen years until 1986. During her time as a committee member of the ISTD, Bird was influential in the examination of dance and the modernisation of the organisations syllabus and approach to teaching young dancers. As a member of the Modern Theatre Branch, Bird helped to compile all the society's new Major examination syllabi for Modern Dance and Tap Dance. Much of this work is still used today, although the syllabi are often revised to keep up to date with current trends in dance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80785", "title": "Flight simulator", "text": "Flight simulator\n\nA flight simulator is a device that artificially re-creates aircraft flight and the environment in which it flies, for pilot training, design, or other purposes. It includes replicating the equations that govern how aircraft fly, how they react to applications of flight controls, the effects of other aircraft systems, and how the aircraft reacts to external factors such as air density, turbulence, wind shear, cloud, precipitation, etc. Flight simulation is used for a variety of reasons, including flight training (mainly of pilots), the design and development of the aircraft itself, and research into aircraft characteristics and control handling qualities.\n\nAn area of training was for air gunnery handled by the pilot or a specialist air gunner. Firing at a moving target requires aiming ahead of the target (which involves the so-called lead angle) to allow for the time the bullets require to reach the vicinity of the target. This is sometimes also called \"deflection shooting\" and requires skill and practice. During World War I, some ground-based simulators were developed to teach this skill to new pilots.\n\nThe best-known early flight simulation device was the Link Trainer, produced by Edwin Link in Binghamton, New York, USA, which he started building in 1927. He later patented his design, which was first available for sale in 1929. The Link Trainer was a basic metal frame flight simulator usually painted in its well-known blue color. Some of these early war era flight simulators still exist, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to find working examples.\n\nThe Link family firm in Binghamton manufactured player pianos and organs, and Ed Link was therefore familiar with such components as leather bellows and reed switches. He was also a pilot, but dissatisfied with the amount of real flight training that was available, he decided to build a ground-based device to provide such training without the restrictions of weather and the availability of aircraft and flight instructors. His design had a pneumatic motion platform driven by inflatable bellows which provided pitch and roll cues. A vacuum motor similar to those used in player pianos rotated the platform, providing yaw cues. A generic replica cockpit with working instruments was mounted on the motion platform. When the cockpit was covered, pilots could practice flying by instruments in a safe environment. The motion platform gave the pilot cues as to real angular motion in pitch (nose up and down), roll (wing up or down) and yaw (nose left and right).\n\nInitially, aviation flight schools showed little interest in the \"Link Trainer\". Link also demonstrated his trainer to the U.S. Army Air Force (USAAF), but with no result. However, the situation changed in 1934 when the Army Air Force was given a government contract to fly the postal mail. This included having to fly in bad weather as well as good, for which the USAAF had not previously carried out much training. During the first weeks of the mail service, nearly a dozen Army pilots were killed. The Army Air Force hierarchy remembered Ed Link and his trainer. Link flew in to meet them at Newark Field in New Jersey, and they were impressed by his ability to arrive on a day with poor visibility, due to practice on his training device. The result was that the USAAF purchased six Link Trainers, and this can be said to mark the start of the world flight simulation industry.\n\nThe principal pilot trainer used during World War II was the Link Trainer. Some 10,000 were produced to train 500,000 new pilots from allied nations, many in the USA and Canada because many pilots were trained in those countries before returning to Europe or the Pacific to fly combat missions. Almost all US Army Air Force pilots were trained in a Link Trainer.\n\nA different type of World War II trainer was used for navigating at night by the stars. The Celestial Navigation Trainer of 1941 was 13.7 m (45 ft) high and capable of accommodating the navigation team of a bomber crew. It enabled sextants to be used for taking \"star shots\" from a projected display of the night sky.\n\nIn 1954 United Airlines bought four flight simulators at a cost of $3 million from Curtiss-Wright that were similar to the earlier models, with the addition of visuals, sound and movement. This was the first of today's modern flight simulators for commercial aircraft.\n\nThe simulator manufacturers are consolidating and integrate vertically as training offers double-digit growth: CAE forecast 255,000 new airline pilots from 2017 to 2027 (70 a day), and 180,000 first officers evolving to captains.\nThe largest is Canadian CAE Inc. with a 70% market share and $2.8 billion annual revenues, manufacturing training devices since 70 years but moved into training in 2000 with multiple acquisitions, making more than from producing the simulators.\nCrawley-based L3 CTS entered the market in 2012 by acquiring Thales Training & Simulation's manufacturing plant near Gatwick Airport where it assembles up to 30 devices a year, then UK CTC training school in 2015, Aerosim in Sanford, Florida in 2016, and Portuguese academy G Air in October 2017.\n\nWith a 20% market share, equipment still accounts for more than half of L3 CTS turnover but that could soon be reversed as it educates 1,600 commercial pilots each year, 7% of the 22,000 entering the profession annually, and aims for 10% in a fragmented market.\nThe third largest is TRU Simulation + Training, created in 2014 when parent Textron Aviation merged its simulators with Mechtronix, OPINICUS and ProFlight, focusing on simulators and developing the first full-flight simulators for the 737 MAX and the 777X.\nThe fourth is FlightSafety International, focused on general, business and regional aircraft.\nAirbus and Boeing have invested in their own training centres, aiming for higher margins than aircraft manufacturing like MRO, competing with their suppliers CAE and L3.\n\nIn June 2018 there were 1,270 commercial airline simulators in service, up by 50 over a year: 85% FFSs and 15% s.\nCAE supplied 56% of this installed base, L3 CTS 20% and FlightSafety International 10%, while CAE’s training centres are the largest operator with a 13% share.\nNorth America has 38% of the world’s training devices, Asia-Pacific 25% and Europe 24%.\nBoeing types represent 45% of all simulated aircraft, followed by Airbus with 35%, then Embraer at 7%, Bombardier at 6% and ATR at 3%.\n\nSeveral different devices are utilized in modern flight training. Cockpit Procedures Trainer (CPT) are used to practice basic cockpit procedures, such as processing emergency checklists, and for cockpit familiarization. Certain aircraft systems may or may not be simulated. The aerodynamic model is usually extremely generic if present at all.\n\nStatistically significant assessments of skill transfer based on training on a simulator and leading to handling an actual aircraft are difficult to make, particularly where motion cues are concerned. Large samples of pilot opinion are required and many subjective opinions tend to be aired, particularly by pilots not used to making objective assessments and responding to a structured test schedule. For many years, it was believed that 6 DOF motion-based simulation gave the pilot closer fidelity to flight control operations and aircraft responses to control inputs and external forces and gave a better training outcome for students than non-motion-based simulation. This is described as \"handling fidelity\", which can be assessed by test flight standards such as the numerical Cooper-Harper rating scale for handling qualities. Recent scientific studies have shown that the use of technology such as vibration or dynamic seats within flight simulators can be equally effective in the delivery of training as large and expensive 6-DOF FFS devices.\n\nWhen a manufacturer wishes to have an ATD model approved, a document that contains the specifications for the model line and that proves compliance with the appropriate regulations is submitted to the FAA. Once this document, called a Qualification Approval Guide (QAG), has been approved, all future devices conforming to the QAG are automatically approved and individual evaluation is neither required nor available.\n\nThe following levels of qualification are currently being granted for both airplane and helicopter FSTD:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe largest flight simulator in the world is the Vertical Motion Simulator (VMS) at NASA Ames Research Center, south of San Francisco. This has a very large-throw motion system with 60 feet (+/- 30 ft) of vertical movement (heave). The heave system supports a horizontal beam on which are mounted 40 ft rails, allowing lateral movement of a simulator cab of +/- 20 feet. A conventional 6-degree of freedom hexapod platform is mounted on the 40 ft beam, and an interchangeable cabin is mounted on the platform. This design permits quick switching of different aircraft cabins. Simulations have ranged from blimps, commercial and military aircraft to the Space Shuttle. In the case of the Space Shuttle, the large Vertical Motion Simulator was used to investigate a longitudinal pilot-induced oscillation (PIO) that occurred on an early Shuttle flight just before landing. After identification of the problem on the VMS, it was used to try different longitudinal control algorithms and recommend the best for use in the Shuttle program.\n\nAMST Systemtechnik GmbH (AMST) of Austria and Environmental Tectonics Corporation (ETC) of Philadelphia, US, manufacture a range of simulators for disorientation training, that have full freedom in yaw. The most complex of these devices is the Desdemona simulator at the TNO Research Institute in The Netherlands, manufactured by AMST. This large simulator has a gimballed cockpit mounted on a framework which adds vertical motion. The framework is mounted on rails attached to a rotating platform. The rails allow the simulator cab to be positioned at different radii from the centre of rotation and this gives a sustained G capability up to about 3.5.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9045912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9045912", "title": "Frederick M. Davenport", "text": "Frederick M. Davenport\n\nFrederick Morgan Davenport (August 27, 1866 – December 26, 1956) was a Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from New York.\n\nDavenport was born in Salem, Massachusetts. He graduated from Wesleyan University in 1889; and from Columbia University in 1905. He taught political science at Hamilton College from 1904 to 1929.\n\nHe was a member of the New York State Senate (36th D.) in 1909 and 1910. He ran on the Progressive ticket for Lieutenant Governor of New York at the New York state election, 1912; and for Governor of New York at the New York state election, 1914.\n\nHe was again a member of the State Senate (36th D.) from 1919 to 1924, sitting in the 142nd, 143rd, 144th, 145th, 146th and 147th New York State Legislatures; and was a delegate to the 1924 Republican National Convention.\n\nHe was elected as a Republican to the 69th, 70th, 71st and 72nd United States Congresses, holding office from March 4, 1925, to March 3, 1933.\n\nHe died on December 26, 1956, in Washington, D.C.\n"}
{"id": "23251251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23251251", "title": "Fulton College (Fiji)", "text": "Fulton College (Fiji)\n\nFulton College is a co-educational boarding tertiary institution situated on the western side of Viti Levu on the main island of Fiji. It is operated by the Seventh-day Adventist church. It serves the island countries of: Fiji, American Samoa, Cook Islands, Kiribati, French Polynesia, Nauru, New Caledonia, Niue, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu. Its services are also offered to Pacific Islanders, and other interested individuals, living in Australia, New Zealand and overseas.\n\nIt is a part of the Seventh-day Adventist education system, the world's second largest Christian school system.\n\nThe college is approximately 10 km from Nadi International Airport on Sabeto Road. The College campus is set on a property in the Sabeto Valley under the Sleeping Giant. This relocated campus was opened on 12 February 2014.\n\nFulton is divided into the following divisions offering the following degrees (diplomas also available in all degree areas)\nBachelor of Business [Accounting & Management], Bachelor of Business [Information Systems], Bachelor of Business [Marketing]\n\nBachelor of Education Honours [Primary], Bachelor of Education [Primary], Bachelor of Education [Early Childhood], Postgraduate Diploma in Education,\nGraduate Diploma in Adventist Education\nBachelor of Theology Honours, Bachelor of Theology, Postgraduate Diploma in Theology, Graduate Diploma in Adventist Studies, Graduate Diploma in Theology\n\nCertificate in Foundation Studies [Business], [Education], [Theology]\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14124306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14124306", "title": "Higher Institute for Dramatic Arts", "text": "Higher Institute for Dramatic Arts\n\nHigher Institute of Dramatic Arts () was founded in Damascus, Syria in 1977 by some academics such as Saadallah Wannous. The institute heralded a new phase in the development of Syrian theatre and drama which begun with the preparation of the next generation of actors on an academic basis. The Institute includes five departments: Acting, Theatrical Critique, Dramatic Arts, Scenography, and Theatrical Techniques . The Institute has succeeded in rapidly making its mark on the theatre and dramatic arts scene with noted performances being presented in Kuwait, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Germany and many others.\n"}
{"id": "268987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268987", "title": "Hong Kong University of Science and Technology", "text": "Hong Kong University of Science and Technology\n\nThe Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST; ) is a public research university in Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong.\n\nFounded in 1991, the university consists of four main academic schools, offering programs in science, engineering, business and management, humanities and social science, along with the Interdisciplinary Programs Office, Fok Ying Tung Graduate School and Institute for Public Policy.\n\nIn the late 1980s the Hong Kong Government anticipated a strong demand for university graduates to fuel an economy increasingly based on services. Sir Sze-Yuen Chung and Sir Edward Youde, the then Governor of Hong Kong, conceived the idea of another university in addition to the pre-existing two universities, The University of Hong Kong and The Chinese University of Hong Kong.\n\nPlanning for the \"Third University\", named The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology later, began in 1986. Construction began at the Kohima Camp site in Tai Po Tsai on the Clear Water Bay Peninsula. The site was earmarked for the construction of a new British Army garrison, but plans for the construction of the garrison were shelved after the Sino-British Joint Declaration was signed in 1984.\n\nOriginally scheduled to finish in 1994, the death of Sir Edward in 1986 led to increased effort and allowed UST to open its doors early – in 1991. Several leading scientists and researchers took up positions at the new university in its early years, including physicist Leroy Chang who arrived in 1993 as Dean of Science and went on to become Vice-President for Academic Affairs. Thomas E. Stelson was also a founding member of the administration.\n\nThe project was criticised for surpassing the budget set forth by the Hong Kong Government and the Royal Hong Kong Jockey Club. However, under the fund-raising efforts of its President, Woo Chia-wei, the first students enrolled in October 1991. By 1992, accommodation and athletic facilities were expanded to support about 7,000 students.\n\nSeveral more expansion projects such as the construction of the Hong Kong Jockey Club Enterprise Center have since been completed. The library extension building, Lee Shau Kee Business Building (LSK), Lo Ka Chung Building, South Bus Station, Undergraduate Halls VIII and IX, Cheng Yu Tung Building (CYT) and the Conference Lodge, are the latest additions to the campus.\n\nEstablished in 1991 under Chapter 1141 of the Laws of Hong Kong (\"The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Ordinance\"), HKUST is one of the eight statutory universities in Hong Kong. It is an institution funded by the University Grants Committee (UGC).\n\nAs with all other statutory universities in Hong Kong, the Chief Executive of HKSAR acts as the Chancellor of HKUST. Prior to the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong, this was a ceremonial title bestowed upon the Governor of Hong Kong.\n\nThe supreme governing body of the university is its Council, formed by a total of 27 members. Council members include university administrators, the chairperson of the alumni Convocation, an elected staff member, an elected full-time student representative, as well as 17 \"lay members\" not being employees or students at the university. Under the \"HKUST Ordinance\", The Chief Executive of HKSAR possesses the power of directly appointing the chairman and vice-chairman of the Council, the Treasurer of the University, and not more than 9 of the lay members.\n\nThe Senate acts as the university's supreme academic body, responsible for making and reviewing the academic policies of the university. It is composed mostly of academic staff members but also includes the Students' Union president, an elected representative of the undergraduates as well as an elected representative of the postgraduates.\n\nBeing the supreme advisory body of the university, the Court is responsible for promoting the university's interests and to raise funds.\n\nThe university is largely a campus university, occupying a 60-hectare site at the northern part of Clear Water Bay Peninsula in Sai Kung District, New Territories, Hong Kong, overlooking Port Shelter in Tai Po Tsai. The campus layout and architecture is based on a master plan submitted jointly by Simon Kwan & Associates and Percy Thomas Partnership, the winning entry to an architectural competition held before the university was founded.\n\nAs the campus has a sloped terrain, buildings and facilities are built on separate terraces carved out of the hillside, with the academic facilities occupying the top-level terraces, and undergraduate halls of residence and sporting facilities at the seafront. The terrace are connected by motor roads as well as a network of footbridges and elevators known as Bridge Link.\n\nThe countryside setting of the university contributed to the fact that HKUST was once the only public university in Hong Kong not being directly served by an MTR station, prior to the re-titling of the Education University of Hong Kong. The university is connected to the metro network through public bus routes including 91, 91M and 792M, complemented by a handful of minibus services, with Choi Hung and Hang Hau stations being the major feeder points.\n\nAcademic activities are mainly conducted in the Academic Building, which contains 10 lecture theatres (A-H, J-K), a multitude of classrooms, laboratories and administrative offices. The lecture theatres can accommodate classes of up to 450 students and offer audiovisual equipment. In addition, an information center and a souvenir shop can be found at the Piazza.\n\nPrior to 2013, offices and classrooms of all of the four schools were grouped under the same roof in the Academic Building. With the completion of the Lee Shau Kee Business Building (LSK) in 2013, most facilities for the School of Business and Management have relocated from the Academic Building. Opened in 2015, the Cheng Yu Tung Building (CYT) afforded the other schools with additional classrooms and laboratories.\n\nLocated at the southern tip of the campus, the Lo Ka Chung Building houses the HKUST Jockey Club Institute of Advanced Study (IAS). The adjacent Conference Lodge, managed by the hotel-operating arm of Chinachem Group offers on-campus accommodations for conference attendees and official guests of the university.\n\nA total of nine undergraduate halls are located at the seafront and mid-rise terraces of the university campus. Also, the university provides 404 Senior Staff Quarters flats and 40 University Apartments flats to its eligible senior staff.\n\nThe HKUST Lee Shau Kee Library, part of the Hong Kong Academic Library Link (HKALL), occupies a central location of the campus. Connected to the Academic Building, it is accessible directly from the Hong Kong Jockey Club Atrium. It spans five floors with over 12,350 sq m of floor space, providing more than 3,674 seats as well as computing facilities. It offers a wide array of information resources, both local and remote. In addition to over 720,000 print and electronic volumes and a large collection of media resources, it provides access to more than 47,000 periodical titles, a large number of e-books, databases, and other digital information resources. The library also includes a 24-hour-capable Learning Commons which provides a technology-rich environment for active learning and education.\n\nThe library owns a collection of old maps of China and the rest of Asia, produced by Chinese and Western cartographers over the last 500 years. A selection of these maps, providing an insight into the history of international geographic knowledge, was published by the library in a limited-edition (1000 copies) volume in 2003.\n\nThe campus boasts 19 catering outlets including fast food restaurants, a Chinese restaurant as well as a bar; other ancillary facilities in the academic complexes include three banks, a bookstore, a supermarket, clinics (consisting of a medical clinic providing free outpatient service to all full-time students and staff, a student dental clinic, and a staff dental clinic) and Students' Union offices.\n\nHKUST had been previously ranked Asia's No.1 by the independent regional \"QS University Rankings: Asia\" for three consecutive years between 2011 and 2013. It's one of the fastest growing institutions as ranked #1 young university by \"Times Higher Education World University Rankings\" in 2018 and #2 by \"QS world's under-50 universities\" in 2018.The \"THE\"'s \"World Reputation Rankings\" of 2017 considered it the third reputable in the territory, while it was first in the \"HKU Public Opinion Programme\" survey (2016). According to \"Global University Employability Ranking\" 2017, the University's graduates have the highest employment rate among universities in Greater China for 5 years in a row, ranked 12th worldwide. Besides overall rankings, a list of subject rankings of Hong Kong tertiary institutions is available to show the strength of its individual disciplines ranked by the above organisations.\n\nThe overall academic organisation structure is as follows:\n\nWithin the School of Science are the Division of Life Science, the Department of Chemistry, the Department of Mathematics and the Department Physics. The School of Science emphasises the whole-person development and international exposure of students. Its undergraduate exchange program provides science students with international learning opportunities throughout their studies. The School has teamed up with over 60 exchange partners from regions including Australia, Canada, the United Kingdom, the United States, Mainland China, and Japan.\n\nThe School of Engineering (SENG) is the largest of the 6 Schools within HKUST. It has 6 departments: Chemical and Biological Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electronic and Computer Engineering, Industrial Engineering and Logistics Management, and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering. It is the only education provider on chemical engineering in Hong Kong. The School provides more than 40 degree programs at the bachelor's, master's and doctoral levels.\n\nIn 2018, Times Higher Education World University Rankings in Engineering and Technology placed HKUST Engineering No.18 globally, the best ever position achieved by any local university since the establishment of this league table in 2010. QS World University Rankings by Subject 2017 - Engineering and Technology ranked HKUST No.15 globally which made SENG No. 1 in Hong Kong for seven consecutive years. SENG has over 100 exchange partner universities in 26 countries/regions in the world.\n\nThe Centre for Global & Community Engagement (GCE) is established as co-curricular program under the School of Engineering, engaging students to make contributions to the community and to broaden their international exposure. GCE supports individuals and student teams such as the HKUST Robotics Team to participate in international competitions.\n\nHKUST's School of Business and Management (SBM) is branded the HKUST Business School. Its Kellogg-HKUST EMBA program has been ranked the world’s No.1 eight times (2007, 2009-2013, 2016-2017) by the Financial Times, while its full-time MBA program has been ranked the world’s Top 15 eight times. The School has been awarded AACSB (Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business) accreditation since 1999.\n\nThere are over 140 faculties. The School offers degree programs– undergraduate, MBA, EMBA, MSc and PhD – and a range of executive education. 12 research centres are assigned to areas from business case studies and investing to Asian Financial Markets and China Business & Management. The School is also placed to leverage its international and regional knowledge base as Asia rises in significance in the global economy. A new purpose-built campus is in place to enable the School to develop further.\n\nThe School of Humanities and Social Science supports interdisciplinary academic training and research in fields including anthropology, economics, geography, history, innovation studies, languages, linguistics, literature, music, philosophy, political science, psychology, sociology, and visual art.\n\nThe interdisciplinary programs bring together two or more different fields of study, offering a great opportunity for students with more than one interest to integrate their abilities. Programs are referenced to Hong Kong’s needs and global trends to ensure relevance, with strong input from business and industry to keep training and skills in line with market demand. Research projects in partnership with industry and the community are encouraged through the Dual Degree Program in Technology and Management and Risk Management and Business Intelligence Program to allow full engagement of the students with the community.\n\nOn 25 January 2007, the HKUST officially named its graduate school in Nansha as HKUST Fok Ying Tung Graduate School/ HKUST Fok Ying Tung Research Institute in a ceremony that combined the official opening of the graduate school and the ground-breaking of its Nansha campus.\n\nThe HKUST Jockey Club Institute for Advanced Study (IAS) at HKUST champions collaborative projects across disciplines and institutions. It forges relationships with academic, business, community, and government leaders. The inaugural lecture of the IAS organised was given by the noted physicist Prof. Stephen Hawking in June 2006.\n\nAs of December 2016, HKUST enrolled 9,334 undergraduates and 4,874 postgraduates, with over a third of the total enrollment being non-local (not holding Hong Kong citizenship). In terms of student population, the School of Engineering is the largest among the university's four schools , hosting 35% and 43% of HKUST's undergraduates and postgraduates respectively; this was followed by the schools of Business and Management (35%/30%), Science (22%/18%), and Humanities and Social Science (2%/5%).\n\nA total of 2,430 local students were admitted to undergraduate programs offered by the university in 2015/16. The university saw the graduation of 2,203 undergraduate students, 461 research postgraduates and 1,913 taught postgraduates in the same academic year, amounting to a total of 4,577 degrees being conferred.\n\nAll full-time registered UG students and in-time full-time HKUST research postgraduate students (RPgs) of the University are eligible to apply for student housing. Under the current policy, all local UG students are provided at least one semester of hall residence in their first year of study, whilst their non-local counterparts are provided at least two years of residency.\n\nThe nine on-campus undergraduate halls provide a total of 146 bed places in single rooms, 3,094 in double rooms (twin + bunk) and 792 in triple rooms. Another 512 bed spaces in double room in the HKUST Jockey Club Hall in Tseung Kwan O are provided for undergraduates and 1080 places in single or double rooms are for Research Postgraduate Students (RPgs) and Visiting Interns.\n\nThere are also off-campus accommodations available. 15 apartments in Tai Po Tsai Village(TPT308 and Wan's Lodge) and 6 apartments in Sam Long Village (SL Apartments) are rented by the University to accommodate 126 TPgs.\n\nOn 27 April 2012, research postgraduate students organised a sit-down strike to raise the voice of the voiceless and reiterate the concerns of the research postgraduate students about the serious housing issue.\n\nFormed in 1992, the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology Students' Union (HKUSTSU) is an organisation independent from but recognised by the university administration. The union is governed by four independent statutory bodies, namely the executive committee, the council, the editorial board and the court. All undergraduates and postgraduates are eligible for membership in the union, although this is not compulsory.\n\nThe students' union oversees over 100 affiliated societies catering to students engaged in different academic disciplines, residential halls, sports and interests.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "479125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479125", "title": "HowStuffWorks", "text": "HowStuffWorks\n\nHowStuffWorks is an American commercial educational website founded by Marshall Brain to provide its target audience an insight into the way many things work. The site uses various media to explain complex concepts, terminology, and mechanisms—including photographs, diagrams, videos, animations, and articles.\n\nThe website was acquired by Discovery Communications in 2007, but sold it to different owners in 2014. The site has since expanded out into podcasting, focusing on factual topics. In 2018, the company, which had since been spun-off by System1 under the name Stuff Media, was acquired by iHeartMedia for $55 million.\n\nIn 1998, North Carolina State University professor Marshall Brain started the site as a hobby. In 1999, Brain raised venture capital and formed HowStuffWorks, Inc. In March 2002, HowStuffWorks was sold to the Convex Group, an Atlanta-based investment and media company founded by Jeff Arnold, founder and former chief executive officer (CEO) of WebMD. The headquarters moved from Cary, North Carolina, to Atlanta. HowStuffWorks originally focused on science and machines, ranging from submarines to common household gadgets and appliances. After adding a staff of writers, artists, and editors, content expanded to a larger array of topics.\n\nIn November 2004, HowStuffWorks moved its entertainment section to Stuffo. However, in 2006, the team disbanded and the site now redirects visitors to the site's entertainment channel.\n\nThe domain HowStuffWorks.com attracted at least 58 million visitors annually by 2008, according to a Compete.com survey.\n\nThere have been four HowStuffWorks books – two illustrated hardcover coffee table books called \"HowStuffWorks\" and \"More HowStuffWorks\", and two un-illustrated paperbacks called \"How Much Does the Earth Weigh?\" and \"What If?\". HowStuffWorks puts out an educational magazine called \"HowStuffWorks Express\" for middle school students. The company has also released a series of HowStuffWorks trivia \"LidRock\" discs – CD-ROMs sold on fountain drink lids at Regal Theaters.\n\nHowstuffworks recently acquired Mobil Travel Guide and Consumer Guide.\n\nHowstuffworks.com spun off its international division when they went public (Nasdaq:HSWI) via an acquisition of INTAC, a China-based company. In March 2007, HSW International launched its Portuguese website with headquarters in São Paulo, Brazil. The Portuguese term for the site is Como Tudo Funciona, which means \"how everything works.\" In June 2008, the Chinese site was launched with new headquarters placed in Beijing, China. The URL roughly translates to \"Knowledge Information Web.\"\n\nOn October 15, 2007, Discovery Communications announced it had bought HowStuffWorks for US$250 million. The company later chose to use the name HowStuffWorks as the title of a television series on its Discovery Channel. The series, which focuses on commodities, premiered in November 2008 and is similar in style and content to other \"how it works\" programs like Modern Marvels.\n\nOn November 2, 2009, HSW International co-founded Sharecare, developing a social QA platform through which users ask health and wellness-related questions, receiving answers from industry experts. Other co-founders in Sharecare include Jeff Arnold, Dr. Mehmet Oz, Harpo Productions, Discovery Communications and Sony Pictures Television.\n\nOn April 21, 2014, Discovery Communications announced that they had sold HowStuffWorks to Blucora for $45 million. In July 2016, Blucora announced the sale of its Infospace business, including HowStuffWorks, to OpenMail for $45 million in cash. OpenMail was later renamed System1.\n\nIn 2014, HowStuffWorks moved its headquarters from Buckhead to Ponce City Market, a new mixed-use development in the Old Fourth Ward neighborhood of Atlanta. In June 2017, they announced the hiring of Cracked.com founder and former editor-in-chief Jack O'Brien for their new comedy podcasting division.\n\nIn 2017, System1 was spun-off as Stuff Media. In September 2018, Stuff Media announced its sale to radio broadcaster iHeartMedia for $55 million.\n\nHowStuffWorks maintains a large number of podcasts, hosted by its staff writers and editors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51547415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51547415", "title": "Interindividual differences in perception", "text": "Interindividual differences in perception\n\nInterindividual differences in perception describes the effect that differences in brain structure or factors such as culture, upbringing and environment have on the perception of humans.\nInterindividual (differing from person to person) variability is usually regarded as a source of noise for research. However, in recent years, it has become an interesting source to study sensory mechanisms and understand human behavior. With the help of modern neuroimaging methods such as fMRI and EEG, individual differences in perception could be related to the underlying brain mechanisms. This has helped to explain differences in behavior and cognition across the population. Common methods include studying the perception of illusions, as they can effectively demonstrate how different aspects such as culture, genetics and the environment can influence human behavior.\n\nA motion quartet is a bistable stimulus - it consists of two dots that change their position from frame to frame. This position change can either be interpreted as horizontal or vertical movement by viewers, and this experience can switch during viewing between interpretations. Depending on the aspect ratio of the two dots' positions, one or the other state is perceived longer or more often. At an aspect ratio of one, the illusion is biased towards the vertical perception. The reason for this might be the way the human brain processes the signals from both eyes in the visual system. The right half of an eye's field of view is processed by the left hemisphere, and the left half by the right hemisphere. A stimulus moving vertically only involves one field of view and so one hemisphere, while a stimulus moving vertically from one field of view to the other involves both hemispheres, and requires communication between them. The delay caused by this additional signalling might be the cause for the bias. There are also individual differences in the way the motion quartet is perceived: Some people require a different aspect ratio to perceive both axes of movement than others.\nA study using diffusion tensor imaging further showed differences in the structure of the corpus callosum, the primary connection between the two hemispheres, might be the origin of these differences.\n\nThere exist a variety of illusions that make objects appear bigger or smaller compared to their real size. Two such illusions are the Ebbinghaus and the Ponzo illusions. The Ebbinghaus illusion makes a dot seem bigger because it is surrounded by smaller dots, while the Ponzo illusion exploits human perspective processing by making a dot appear bigger because it seems farther away. Schwarzkopf et al. found that the size of the primary visual cortex (V1) has an effect on the magnitude of these illusions. The larger the subject's V1 surface area was, the less the subjects fell for the illusion. This is hypothesized to be due to the fact that a larger V1 dedicated to the same portion of the visual field means a lesser effect of later, fixed-size visual areas (which are the ones that are responsible for the illusion effect).\n\nThe McGurk effect is an auditory illusion in which people perceive a different syllable when incongruent audiovisual speech is presented: an auditory syllable \"ba\" is presented while the mouth movement is \"ga\". As a result, the listener perceives the syllable \"da\". However, according to Gentilucci and Cattaneo (2005), not everyone perceives this illusion; only about 26% to 98% of the population are susceptible to this illusion. One of the psychological models that explains the interindividual differences in speech perception is the fuzzy logic model of speech perception According to this model, a categorization process is carried out when processing speech sounds. When listening to a stimulus, the features of the acoustic signal are analyzed. Subsequently, this signal is compared with the features that are stored in the memory; finally the sound is classified into the category that best fits. However, this classification may have a blurred boundary respectively to the category which the sound belongs to. As a result, the final decision may depend on integration of multiple sources of information. When the McGurk effect is presented the auditory and visual components of the speech are separately evaluated before being integrated. In those who perceive the McGurk effect, the visual information has a higher influence on the perception of the ambiguous audiovisual information and thus the sound is classified as \"da\".\n\nMany studies have concluded that the area responsible for the perception of this phenomenon is the left superior temporal sulcus(STS). This area is critical for the multisensory integration of visual and auditory information during speech perception. Moreover, there is a correlation between the activation of the STS and the perception of the McGurk effect. In that sense, if the left STS correctly integrates the mismatched audiovisual information, a McGurk effect is perceived; if the left STS is not active, the visual and auditory information are not integrated and thus a McGurk effect is not perceived.\n\nIn one study blood-oxygen-level dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD fMRI) was used to measure the brain activity in perceivers and non-perceivers of the McGurk effect while presented with congruent audiovisual syllables, McGurk audiovisual syllables (auditory \"ba\" + visual \"ga\" producing perception of \"da\"), and non-McGurk incongruent syllables( auditory \"ga\" + visual \"ba\" producing auditory perception of \"ga\"). The researchers found that there was a positive correlation between the amplitude of response in the left STS and the probability of perceiving the McGurk effect. In other words, the subject with the weakest STS activation to incongruent speech had the smallest probability of experiencing a McGurk percept; whereas the subject with the strongest STS response had the highest probability.\n\nBeauchamp et al. (2010) highlight the critical role of the left STS in audiovisual integration. They applied single pulses of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to the STS of McGurk perceivers during presentation of McGurk stimuli. The perception of the McGurk effect decreased from 94% to 43% and the subjects reported perceiving only the auditory syllable. Following from that, Beauchamp et al. conclude that the left STS is crucial for the audiovisual integration and thus for the perception of the McGurk effect.\n\nMoreover, another study suggests that the basis of the interindividual differences in the perception of McGurk effect lies in the eye movements of the subject when viewing the talker’s face. The experimenters carried out an eye tracking study and measured the eye movements of the participants while viewing audiovisual speech. They found that people who spent more time fixating the mouth of the talker were the more likely to perceive the McGurk effect than those who rarely fixated on the mouth of the speaker.\n\nInterindividual differences have also been researched for the Tritone paradox illusion. In this illusion, the subject successively listens to two tones, which are separated by a half octave. Each tone is made of a set of harmonics which have an octave relation. The listener has to decide if the two tones have a descending or ascending relation. According to Diana Deutsch, the perception of the tones is influenced by the language spoken by the listener. The listener has a circular representation of the pitch of sounds that are common in their culture and based on that develops a pitch range of their speaking voice, which determines the orientation of the pitch class with respect to the height; when a given tone is in this range, it is taken as the highest position along the circle and depending on the second tone, the person perceives the pattern as ascending or descending. Deutsch found that for people from California, the tone in the highest position of the pitch-class circle is around C# and D whereas for people from southern England it is around G. According to those results, Deutsch hypothesized that the orientation of the pitch-class circle with respect to the height is similar for individuals from the same linguistic group and varies for individuals from different linguistic groups.\n\nOther illusions found by Deutsch whose interpretation depends on interindividual differences is the phantom words illusion. This illusion consists of the continuous presentation of two meaningless syllables. In order to experience the illusion, it is necessary that the listener sits between two loudspeakers, one to the left and the other to the right. The syllables are presented offset in time, in such a way that while one syllable is coming from the left, the other syllable is coming from the right loudspeaker. It was shown that after a period of time, people start hearing words. According to Deutsch, the perceived words depend on the language spoken by the listener, their knowledge and their expectations. According to Shinn-Cunningham (2008), when the information is incomplete or contradictory, the perceptual system often fills this gaps with plausible interpretations and in that way allows new information to be efficiently processed.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that differences between individuals play a significant role in determining how a stimulus is perceived. These differences among people, in turn, are greatly influenced by one's own socio-cultural contexts. The research indicates that cultural factors influence the process of perception not just on lower-level (such as object perception and attention deployment), but also on the higher-order functions (such as theory of mind and emotion recognition).\n\nThe two major cultures analyzed in these studies were mostly Western and East Asian cultures because of the considerable differences in the social structure and practices. Western culture was referred to as an \"analytical\" culture whereas Eastern culture was referred more as a \"holistic\" culture. More specifically, individualism and freedom are the predominant values in Western societies, which in turn demand interpretation of an object in its absolute terms independent of its context. In contrast, Eastern culture is known for its emphasis on collectivism and interdependence on each other, where interpretation of an object is often in relation with its context\n\nA pioneer study examining these cultural differences in visual perception was conducted by Kitmaya et al. (2003). The findings of that study provide behavioural evidence on how cultural factors affect visual perception and attention deployment. For the study, Americans and Japanese were taken as subjects. The visual stimulus shown to the subjects consisted of a square figure with a line hanging from the centre (the framed line test). First was the absolute condition, where the task was to redraw the line on the centre of the square in its absolute length, to a new square box independent of its size. Second was the relative condition, in which the task was to redraw the line on the centre of the square in proportionally similar to context of the new square box. The results show that Americans perform better in the absolute task which requires analytical processing of stimulus independent of it context, whereas the Japanese performed better at the relative task which demands the holistic processing of the stimulus in relation to its context.\n\nIn line with these findings, Hedden and colleagues (2009) used the same visual stimuli to investigate the neural activity with the help of fMRI. Participants of the study were asked to judge the length of a vertical line, either including the contextual information or ignoring it. The results revealed that separate brain regions were employed while performing the task, either incorporating the contextual information or avoiding it, based on one's own culture. The areas associated with attentional control in the frontal and parietal region of the brain were highly activated when the subjects performed the task which was incongruent to their cultural pattern. That is, the activity in the fronto-parietal region enhanced when East Asians had to ignore the contextual information, while similar enhancement happened for Americans when they had to incorporate the contextual information. These findings illustrate that the function of the neural mechanisms are also modulated to some extent by one's own culture.\n\nA follow-up fMRI study by Gutchess, Welsh, Boduroglu, and Park (2006) confirmed the previous findings by using a rather complex stimulus, which consists of \"only the object\" pictures, \"object with background\" pictures and \"only the background\" pictures without the object. This particular study was done on East-Asian Americans and non-Asian Americans. Though the performance of both subject groups was equally good, the activity of the involved brain areas was significantly different. Non-Asian Americans had a higher activation in the object processing areas in the ventral visual cortex during the object recognition task whereas the East-Asian Americans exhibited higher activity in the left occipital and fusiform areas which are associated with perceptual analysis.\n"}
{"id": "399385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399385", "title": "Iowa Writers' Workshop", "text": "Iowa Writers' Workshop\n\nThe Program in Creative Writing, more commonly known as the Iowa Writers' Workshop, at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa, is a celebrated graduate-level creative writing program in the United States. Writer Lan Samantha Chang is its director. Graduates earn a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree in Creative Writing. It has been cited as the best graduate writing program in the nation.\n\nThe program began in 1936 with the gathering of poets and fiction writers under the direction of Wilbur Schramm.\n\nThe workshop's second director from 1941–1965 was Cedar Rapids, Iowa, native Paul Engle. Under his tenure, the Writers' Workshop became a national landmark. He successfully secured donations for the workshop from the business community for about 20 years, including locals such as Maytag and Quaker Oats, as well as U.S. Steel and \"Reader's Digest\". Between 1953 and 1956, the Rockefeller Foundation donated $40,000. Henry Luce, the publisher of \"TIME\" and \"Life\" magazines, and Gardner Cowles, Jr. (1903–1985), who published \"Look\" magazine, provided publicity for the workshop's events.\n\nFrom 1965–1969, the workshop had several different directors.\nJohn Leggett was the director from 1969–86 and attracted writers such as T.C. Boyle, Ethan Canin, Michael Cunningham, Gail Godwin, Denis Johnson, and Jane Smiley.\n\nFrom 1987 until his death in 2005, Frank Conroy directed the workshop and was Engle's longest-lasting successor. Lan Samantha Chang became the director in 2006.\n\nThe Program in Creative Writing, at the University of Iowa in Iowa City, Iowa, is more commonly known as the Iowa Writers' Workshop graduate-level creative writing program in the United States.\n\nGraduates earn a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) degree in English. Iowa has the oldest creative writing program in the country offering an MFA credential.\n\nThe workshop is staffed by three permanent and several visiting faculty.\n\nThe program's curriculum requires students to take a small number of classes each semester, including the Graduate Fiction Workshop or Graduate Poetry Workshop itself, and one or two additional literature seminars. The modest requirements are intended to prepare the student for the realities of professional writing, where self-discipline is paramount. The graduate workshop courses meet weekly. Before each three-hour class, a small number of students submit material for critical reading by their peers. The class itself consists of a round-table discussion during which the students and the instructor discuss each piece. The specifics of how the class is conducted vary somewhat from teacher to teacher, and between poetry and fiction workshops. The ideal result is not only that authors come away with insights into the strengths and weaknesses of their own work, but that the class as a whole derives some insight, whether general or specific, about the process of writing.\n\n\"Conversations from the Iowa Writer's Workshop\" is an event put on by the program that is recorded and put online in podcast form.\n\n, Iowa Writers' Workshop alumni won 17 Pulitzer Prizes, as well as numerous National Book Awards and other literary honors. Six U.S. Poets Laureate have been graduates of the workshop.\nFaculty and graduates affiliated with the Iowa Writers' Workshop have won 29 Pulitzer Prizes, including 16 won by graduates since 1947, and graduates and faculty of the University of Iowa have won over 40.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42198539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42198539", "title": "Istituto tecnico per le attività sociali", "text": "Istituto tecnico per le attività sociali\n\nIstituto tecnico per attività sociali (literally \"Technical institute for social activities\") has been a type of secondary school in Italy.\n\nThis specialized institute has contributed, in Italy and in Switzerland, to the professional and technical training of executive and senior staff in the economic sector of services, with particular regard to the link between management, law, economy and social sciences.\n\nIt was founded in 1931, reformed in the fifties, sixties, and in 1998. After the 2010 Gelmini reform, because of its area of interest, it was merged with the \"Technical-Economic Institute with specialisation in Administration, Finance and Marketing\", while some of its higher specialisations were directly moved to the university education. Students could attend the \"istituto tecnico per le attività sociali\" after successfully completing middle school (\"scuola media\"), and were enabled to progress to any university institution.\n\nIn 2012, according to a study conducted in four regions of Italy by the business newspaper Il Sole 24 Ore and the Agnelli Foundation, a number of Istituti tecnici per le attività sociali were between the best secondary schools in terms of quality in Lombardia, Emilia Romagna and Calabria.\n\nThe curriculum is devised by the Ministry of Education, and emphasises the link between management, law economy and social sciences.\n\nAfter a common biennium, the course was divided into three specializing paths:\nThe education given offers both a wide theoretical education and an accurate specialization in a field of studies (management, administration, law, humanities), often integrated with a six months internship in a company, association or university, during the fifth and last year of study.\n\nStudents are required to study for five years, and attend the school from the age of 14 to 19. At the end of the fifth year all students sit for the \"maturità\", a wide final examination which gave access to every university course. The degree given at the end of the main path is a high school diploma with a specialization in social science and management (it. \"Diploma di istruzione secondaria superiore ad indirizzo tecnico attività sociali, specializzazione dirigenti di comunità\", translated as \"High School Diploma in Social Sciences and Management\").\n"}
{"id": "5121807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5121807", "title": "Jacques Gauthier", "text": "Jacques Gauthier\n\nJacques Armand Gauthier (born June 7, 1948 in New York City) is an American vertebrate paleontologist, comparative morphologist, and systematist, and one of the founders of the use of cladistics in biology.\n\nGauthier is the son of Edward Paul Gauthier and Patricia Marie Grogan. He received a B.S. degree in Zoology at San Diego State University in 1973, a Master of Biological Science at the same institute in 1980, and a PhD in Paleontology from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1984. Currently he is a Professor of Geology and Geophysics and Ecology and Evolutionary Biology and Curator of Vertebrate Paleontology and Vertebrate Zoology at Yale University. His master's thesis, the content of which was published in 1982, is a classic work on the paleontology and phylogeny of the lizard clade Anguimorpha that remains a core reference for morphological research on Xenosauridae and Anguidae in particular. His PhD thesis constituted the first major cladistic analysis of Diapsida, as well as arguing for the monophyly of the dinosaurs. He followed this with an important paper on the origin of birds from theropods. This was the first detailed cladistic analysis of the theropod dinosaurs, and initiated a revolution in dinosaur phylogenetics, in which cladistics replaced the Linnaean system in the classification and phylogenetic understanding of the dinosaurs.\n\nGauthier's corpus is remarkable in that he contributed the foundational phylogenetic studies of Archosauria and Lepidosauria, two major amniote clades; and he was the primary author of the foundational and still widely cited phylogenetic study of Amniota as a whole. The phylogenetic character sets from his 1984 and 1986 works, the 1988 amniote paper, and the 1988 lepidosaur and squamate papers still form the core of essentially all gross-anatomy-based phylogenetic analyses of these groups, and as such are among the most highly cited papers in amniote morphology and paleobiology. The 1988 amniote paper is also frequently cited to demonstrate the importance of taxon sampling in phylogenetic analysis, in particular the importance of sampling rare or fossil taxa that can break 'long branches' along which convergence can occur.\n\nMore recently, he has argued together with Kevin de Queiroz for replacing Linnaean taxonomy with the PhyloCode. In addition to his theoretical work on systematics and taxonomy, Gauthier continues to study the anatomy and relationships of diapsids, particularly lepidosaurs. His lizard work currently focuses on Scincomorpha, following on a career-long interest in the unusual clade Xantusiidae. He is a principal investigator on the National Science Foundation-funded effort to reconstruct the phylogeny of lizards and snakes (Squamata) using gross anatomy and molecular structure, building on his earlier work in collaboration with Richard Estes and Kevin de Queiroz, which established the most widely accepted phylogeny of the group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16447", "title": "James Alan McPherson", "text": "James Alan McPherson\n\nJames Alan McPherson (September 16, 1943 – July 27, 2016) was an American essayist and short-story writer. He was the first African-American writer to win the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, and was included among the first group of artists who received a MacArthur Fellowship. At the time of his death, McPherson was a professor emeritus of fiction at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nMcPherson was born in Savannah, Georgia, on September 16, 1943, the second of four children. His father was a master electrician (the first African-American so recognized in Georgia), and his mother (born Mabel Small) was a maid. While growing up, McPherson's father struggled with alcohol and time in jail. In his essay \"Going Up To Atlanta,\" McPherson describes the many odd jobs he took on during this time to help support his mother, brother, and sisters. But it was his discovery of the \"colored branch\" of the public library that changed his life. When he started reading books, McPherson learned that words, even without pictures, \"gave up their secret meanings, spoke of other worlds, made me know that pain was a part of other people's lives.\"\n\nHe attended Morgan State University from 1963 to 1964 before receiving his undergraduate degree in history and English from Morris Brown College in 1965. In 1968, McPherson received a LL.B. from Harvard Law School, where he partially financed his studies by working as a janitor.\n\nWhile at Harvard, McPherson studied fiction writing with Alan Lebowitz in 1967 and worked on his stories when he found some spare time. It was the publication of his short story \"Gold Coast\" in \"The Atlantic Monthly\", following an \"open reading\" competition they had sponsored, that first brought him public recognition. During this period, McPherson established a close working relationship with Edward Weeks, an editor at \"The Atlantic Monthly,\" which led to McPherson becoming a contributing editor at that magazine in 1969. His fiction would go on to appear in numerous journals and magazines throughout the following decade. Many of his stories were anthologized, beginning with \"Gold Coast\" when it appeared in \"The Best American Stories\" in 1969. His first collection of short stories, \"Hue and Cry\", was published by Atlantic Monthly Press that year.\n\nIn 1971, he received an M.F.A. in fiction from the Iowa Writers' Workshop, where he studied briefly with the short-story writer and novelist Richard Yates. While studying creative writing, McPherson decided not to practice law; however, he would continue to utilize his legal training in various projects. In a 1972 \"Atlantic Monthly\" essay, he exposed exploitative business practices against black homeowners, presaging the later work of Ta-Nehisi Coates.\n\nDuring this period in his life, he gained the attention of Ralph Ellison (1913–1994), who became both a friend and mentor to the young McPherson. In December 1970, McPherson interviewed Ellison for an \"Atlantic Monthly\" cover story and collaborated with him on the essay \"Indivisible Man.\" This relationship with Ellison would have a lasting influence on his own life and work, as McPherson acknowledges in his essay \"Gravitas,\" which he published in 1999 as both a tribute to the (then) recently deceased writer, and to observe the posthumous publication of Ellison's novel \"Juneteenth\" that same year. McPherson also initiated a friendship with Albert Murray shortly after the publication of Murray's \"The Omni-Americans: Black Experience & American Culture\" (1970).\n\nMcPherson taught English and creative writing at the University of California, Santa Cruz (assistant professor; 1969–1971), the Harvard University summer school (1972), Morgan State University (assistant professor; 1975–1976) and the University of Virginia (associate professor; 1976–1981) before joining the Iowa Writers' Workshop in 1981, with whom he was associated for the remainder of his life. He served as acting director of the program for two years following the death of Frank Conroy in 2005. Following the publication of \"Elbow Room\" (his final collection of fiction) in 1977, McPherson primarily focused on his teaching career, with the \"Chicago Tribune\" characterizing him as being \"only slightly more gregarious than J.D. Salinger.\"\n\nHe was also a visiting scholar at Yale Law School (1978–1979) and a fellow at Stanford University's Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (1997–1998; 2002–2003). Significantly, McPherson lectured in Japan (at Meiji University and Chiba University), a country whose society and culture profoundly affected him. It was in Japan, he once wrote, where he went to lay down \"the burden carried by all black Americans, especially the males.\"\n\n\"Crabcakes: A Memoir\", his first original work since \"Elbow Room\", was published in 1998. His final book (\"A Region Not Home: Reflections on Exile\", an essay collection) was published in 2000.\n\nIn 1972, McPherson was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship. He received the Pulitzer Prize in 1978 for his short story collection \"Elbow Room\", becoming the first black writer to receive the program's Fiction Prize.\n\nHe was the recipient of a MacArthur Fellowship in 1981, a member of the first group (21 recipients in all) ever selected for one of the MacArthur Foundation's so-called \"genius grants.\" In 1995, McPherson was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2000, John Updike selected McPherson's short story \"Gold Coast\" for his collection \"Best American Short Stories of the Century\" (Houghton Mifflin).\n\nIn October 2011, McPherson was honored as the inaugural recipient of the Paul Engle Award from the Iowa City UNESCO City of Literature. According to the citation:\n\nMcPherson died in hospice on July 27, 2016, in Iowa City, Iowa, due to complications of pneumonia. He was 72. He is survived by a daughter, Rachel McPherson (a child from his first marriage to the former Sarah Charlton, which had ended in divorce); a son from another relationship, Benjamin Miyamoto; a sister; and a brother.\n\nNonfiction\n\nFiction\n"}
{"id": "9548253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9548253", "title": "Jean M. Doerge", "text": "Jean M. Doerge\n\nJean McGlothlin Doerge (born June 4, 1937) is a retired school teacher and a Democratic former member of the Louisiana House of Representatives from Minden, who represented District 10 (Webster Parish) from the death in 1998 of her husband, Everett Doerge, until January 9, 2012.\n\nIn 2007, her colleagues named her to the House Appropriations Committee, a key panel that approves state spending. While in the legislature Doerge (pronounced DURR GHEE) was a member of the Hurricane Katrina Memorial Commission and the Democratic Caucus.\n\nShe was born to Thomas McGlothlin (1903–1966) and the former Cora Vercher (1904–1975) in tiny Galbraith in Natchitoches Parish in Central Louisiana. She was the middle child in a family of seven daughters. She graduated from Cloutierville High School in Natchitoches Parish. Thereafter, she attended Northwestern State University in Natchitoches, where she met Everett Doerge, a native of Minden. They married in August 1957, and both graduated in 1958. Later, she received her master's degree from Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge and thirty additional hours of credits in professional education from Louisiana Tech University in Ruston.\n\nDoerge first taught at Minden High School when it was ranked among the ten best schools in the state. For several years, the Doerges moved around, having been teachers for two years in Arp in Smith County. Texas. When Everett went to Northwestern as an assistant coach, Jean worked in an office in Natchitoches. Later, she resumed teaching in the town of Cotton Valley in Webster Parish.\n\nIn March 1965, the Doerges adopted their daughter, Sherie, now a Minden High School educator who was married until his death to Kevin Lester (1963-2016), the purchasing manager at Calumet Specialty Products Partners in Cotton Valley. There are two Doerge grandsons, Justin and Jacob Lester. In 1966, Mrs. Doerge returned to Minden High School and worked in the business education department there until 1992, when both she and her husband retired. In 1985, she was named \"Louisiana Business Educator of the Year.\"\n\nEverett Doerge ran for the Louisiana House, winning by only seventy-one votes over the Republican incumbent Eugene S. Eason of Springhill in northern Webster Parish.\n\nDoerge was a big reelection winner in 1995, when he defeated two Republican women. He died near the end of his second term. Jean, widowed at the age of sixty-one, ran in the special election to succeed him and was an easy winner. She polled 3,048 votes (67 percent) to defeat the Democrat-turned-Republican Garland Mack Garrett, an oil company owner from Springhill born in 1942, who obtained 1,481 ballots (33 percent). She was subsequently elected without opposition to full terms in 1999 and 2003. Doerge is the third woman to succeed her husband in the Webster Parish state House seat. Lizzie P. Thompson and Mary Smith Gleason were both named to the seat by Governor Earl Kemp Long in 1951 and 1959, respectively, when their husbands, C.W. Thompson and E.D. Gleason, died in office. Unlike Doerge, neither Thompson nor Gleason sought to hold the seat for a term of her own.\n\nIn 2001, Mrs. Doerge worked to establish a special district to authorize the creation of a fire and emergency training service district, only the second created in Louisiana. She helped various residents in the Dubberly community in south Webster Parish obtain water service when their wells went dry. She also helped to secure a grant for the Cotton Valley water system.\n\nShe has worked to obtain services for Springhill. In 2002, she helped the Springhill Medical Center obtain placement in the Rural Hospital Coalition, a move which enabled the facility to obtain additional funds. She pushed for the designation of a tourism center in Springhill, with appropriate directional signs to the new facility. She also worked for a jogging trail in Frank Anthony Park and for the funding to renovate the Spring Theater.\n\nShe pushed successfully for funding to relocate the Northwest Louisiana Technical College (formerly the Northwest Louisiana Vocational-Technical School) in Minden to a new campus off the Interstate 20 service road, which opened in 2013.\n\nDoerge pulled strings to obtain special surgery in St. Louis, Missouri, for a cerebral palsy patient, 5-year-old Jeremy Logan Curtis. Had she not acted, the child would have been a permanent invalid. The surgery was successful, and the child was thereafter able to walk and play and faces a bright future.\n\nDoerge's \"alma mater\", NSU, inducted her into the College of Business Hall of Distinction. Her name is engraved on a plaque located in the foyer of Russell Hall. The Louisiana Police Jury [equivalent of county commission in other states] Association presented her with its \"Friends of the Parishes\" award.\n\nDoerge is a breast cancer survivor. In an interview with the late Juanita Agan of the \"Minden Press-Herald\", the United Methodist Doerge attributed her recovery to the will and love of God and His answer to her prayers for strength and endurance, the care of her physicians, the love of her family, and the concern of friends. Late in 2004, she was declared cancer-free.\n\nDoerge easily retained her seat in the nonpartisan blanket primary held on October 20, 2007. She received 6,681 votes (57 percent) to 4,133 (35 percent) for Ronnie Broughton of Minden, the then president of the Webster Parish School Board and a Republican who later left that party to become the state chairman of the Constitution Party. An African American candidate, Terrell Mendenhall of Cullen, polled 915 ballots (8 percent). \n\nBroughton had committed to the victorious Republican gubernatorial candidate Bobby Jindal, but Doerge had proclaimed her neutrality in the governor's race in which her former legislative colleague, Foster Campbell, was also a candidate. Broughton questioned why Louisiana Highway 371 remains a two-lane road. He had promised if elected to \"bring transportation dollars home to our area.\" Broughton also proclaimed himself a pro-life candidate: \"Life starts at conception, marriage is between a man and woman, and the Second Amendment should be protected and held sacred.\"\n\nDoerge was term-limited in 2011. In the primary election held on October 22, three Republicans, Ronnie Broughton making a second bid for the seat, businessman and former banker Gerald Holland of Springhill, and educator and businesswoman Jeri de Pingre of Minden, and a Democrat, Harlie Eugene \"Gene\" Reynolds of Dubberly, sought to succeed Doerge.\n\nU.S. Senator David Vitter's campaign organization, the Louisiana Committee for a Republican Majority, has urged primary voters to support either Broughton or Holland but omitted de Pingre from the recommended choices. Area Democrats, including Doerge, endorsed Reynolds, who like Doerge is a former educator.\n\nReynolds led the four-candidate field with 3,725 votes (39 percent), and de Pingre trailed with 2,498 votes (26.1 percent). Both candidates backed by Senator Vitter finished out of the running. Gerald Holland received 2,131 votes (22.3 percent), and Ronnie Broughton, Doerge's opponent from 2007, trailed with 1,205 votes (12.6 percent).\n\nIn the general election held on November 19, 2011, Reynolds defeated Republican de Pingre, 4,232 votes (54.7 percent) to 3,508 votes (45.3 percent). He hence succeeded Doerge on January 9, 2012.\n\nDoerge is now the director of the Germantown Colony and Museum in Webster Parish. A $512,000 visitor center, for which she worked as a lawmaker to obtain the appropriation, opened in November 2014. The dogtrot-style building showcases German settlers who established a commune in North Louisiana beginning in the mid-1800s in a quest to avoid religious persecution. This is the last museum to have been added to the state system: \"We are telling a part of history that's almost been lost. We're opening that up to not only adults but children as well,\" Doerge said.\n\nhttp://www.vote-smart.org/bio.php?can_id=BZZ83331\n\n\"Minden Press-Herald\", June 1, 2007.\n"}
{"id": "10464859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10464859", "title": "John Carrier Weaver", "text": "John Carrier Weaver\n\nJohn Carrier Weaver (May 21, 1915 – March 10, 1995) was an American professor of geography, and college administrator for several major universities in the United States.\n\nWeaver was born in Evanston, Illinois. His father, A. T. Weaver, was a professor of speech at the University of Wisconsin–Madison from 1918 to 1961. John Weaver graduated from the University of Wisconsin High School, then received his A.B. (1936), A.M. (1937), and Ph.D. (1942), all in geography, from the University of Wisconsin. He was a member of the Chi Phi Fraternity.\n\nHe was on the staff of the American Geographical Society from 1940-1942, was a researcher for the Division of Geography and Cartography of the United States Department of State from 1942-1944, and from 1944-1946 served as an Arctic intelligence officer in the Navy.\n\nWeaver taught geography at the University of Minnesota from 1946-1955; became dean of the College of Arts and Science at Kansas State University (1955-1957); then dean of the Graduate College at the University of Nebraska (1957-1961), vice president for research and dean of the Graduate College at the University of Iowa (1961-1964); and vice president for academic affairs at The Ohio State University (1964-1966). From 1966 to 1970, Weaver served as president of the University of Missouri System. In 1970, the regents of the University of Wisconsin elected Weaver president, and he took office in January 1971; when the University of Wisconsin System was created in October 1971, Weaver became its first president. Weaver retired from the UW System in June, 1977, and moved to Los Angeles where he was a Distinguished Professor of Geography at the University of Southern California and the first executive director of the Annenberg Center for the Study of the American Experience. He died in Rancho Palos Verdes, California.\n"}
{"id": "49590535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49590535", "title": "Joseph H. Pereira", "text": "Joseph H. Pereira\n\nJoseph H. Pereira, popularly known as the Singing Priest, is an Indian Roman Catholic priest, social worker and the founder and managing trustee of \"Kripa Foundation\", a Mumbai-based non governmental organization working for the rehabilitation of HIV patients and people affected by substance abuse. He has been associated with Mother Teresa and B. K. S. Iyengar and is a member of the New York Academy of Sciences. A pupil of B. K. S. Iyengar and a proponent of Iyengar Yoga, he is a certified instructor of the yoga school. The Government of India awarded him the fourth highest civilian honour of the Padma Shri, in 2009, for his contributions to society.\n\nJoseph Pereira was born in a Luso-Indian Roman Catholic family in the suburbs of Mumbai, in the western Indian state of Maharashtra and did his early schooling locally where he had the opportunity to study Sanskrit. He started learning yoga from the age of eleven and, choosing the vocation of a priest, he enlisted himself in a seminary where he was involved with the choral groups there. He continued his academic studies to secure a master's degree Philosophy and Psychology from the University of Mumbai and a certification in counselling theory and practice from the Hazelden Institute of the Hazelden Foundation, USA. While at the seminary, he got an opportunity to meet B. K. S. Iyengar, renowned yoga guru and the originator of Iyengar Yoga, and joined him as a student of yoga in 1968. In 1971, he started participating in the activities of Mother Teresa and a decade later, he founded \"Kripa Foundation\" in 1981, with a few inmates, on the premises of the Church of Our Lady of Mount Carmel, Bandra where he served as the parish priest. The Foundation, which had a modest beginning, grew over the years, presently operating out of 69 centres in India and also has presence in Canada, Germany and USA. The organization works for the rehabilitation of HIV/AIDS patients and the victims of substance abuse and alcoholism and is affiliated to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment. The centre employs yoga as a means to treat alcoholics and drug addicts.\n\nPereira teaches yoga philosophy in various Indian institutions including the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad and is a member of the New York Academy of Sciences. He is the national coordinator of the World Community for Christian Meditation (WCCM) and is a trustee of the Indian chapter of the Alcoholics Anonymous (AA). He acts as a consultant to the Archdiocese of Bombay in matters related to drug addiction and conducts regular workshops on de-addiction and yoga in India and abroad, for which he has brought out several audio/video CDs such as \"Wholeness and Holiness\", \"Yoga for the Practice of Christian Meditation\", and \"The Whole Person in Prayer\". His students included Lee Kuan Yew, the first Prime Minister of Singapore. He is the author of \"Yoga for the Practice of Christian Meditation\", a guide for beginners of yoga. The Government of India awarded him the civilian honour of the Padma Shri in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "12557017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12557017", "title": "Justin Leiber", "text": "Justin Leiber\n\nJustin Fritz Leiber (July 8, 1938 – March 22, 2016) was an American philosopher and science fiction writer. He was the son of fantasy, horror and science fiction author Fritz Leiber and the grandson of stage and film actor Fritz Leiber, Sr. Previously a professor of philosophy at the University of Houston, Leiber was most recently a professor emeritus of philosophy at Florida State University. He was a visiting fellow at Linacre College, Oxford during the Trinity term on numerous occasions.\n\nLeiber was born in 1938 in Chicago, Illinois to writers Fritz Leiber and Jonquil Stephens Leiber. After completing his primary and secondary schooling at the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools, he went on to receive A.B. (1958), A.M. (1960) and Ph.D. (1967) degrees in philosophy from the University of Chicago and a B.Phil (1972) from St. Catherine's College, Oxford.\n\nLeiber had numerous academic appointments, including an instructorship at Memphis State University (1962–1963) and assistant professorships at Utica College of Syracuse University (1963–1965), the State University of New York at Buffalo (1966–1968) and Lehman College (1968–1977). While at the latter institution, he held visiting appointments at King's College London (honorary visitor; 1970–1971), St. Catherine's College, Oxford (philosophy tutor; 1971–1972) and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (visiting scientist; 1976–1978). A full professor at the University of Houston from 1978 onward, Leiber ended his career at Florida State University.\n\nLeiber died on March 22, 2016 in Tallahassee, Florida from prostate cancer.\n\nLeiber's publications encompass a number of subjects, including philosophy, psychology, linguistics, and cognitive science. He published several papers on Alan Turing's Turing Test and Turing's mathematical Turing Machines and biological achievements, arguing that Turing Test passage requires actual, real time, reliable passage, thus excluding challenges to the Test by John Searle and others (Leiber 2006a, 1995, 1991) He also defends Turing's demand for a biology that excludes selectionist and functional explanations (Leiber 2006a, 2001) and he has offered a related critique of evolutionary psychology (Leiber 2008, 2006b). In several works (Leiber 1991,1988, 1975) he articulates the nativist and rationalist linguistics of Noam Chomsky. In a critical notice of Leiber's \"Invitation to Cognitive Science\", Diane Proudfoot and Jack Copeland comment that \"He provides a rationale for the Turing test which knits together the motivational remarks of Turing's 1950 article more satisfyingly than any previously proposed and he draws attention to Turing's anticipation of connectionism in 1948.\" While acknowledging that Leiber's interpretation of Turing's 1936 paper is widely shared, they argue that this consensus \"distorts both Turing's achievement and the epistemic status of the computational theory of mind.\" Proudfoot and Copeland also comment that \"Leiber upsets the common view of Wittgenstein by arguing that theses in the \"Philosophical Investigations\" commit Wittgenstein to a scientific approach the mind and encourage a specifically computational theory of mind...[stressing] central elements of Wittgenstein's constructive accounts of mind and language.\" However, they are critical of Leiber's audacious interpretation.\nSome of both his fiction and non-fiction books and papers have dealt with intelligence and consciousness. Larry Hauser credits Leiber's dialogue, \"Can Animals and Machines Be Persons?\" for articulating the claim that \"the solipsistic predicament pertains to individuals not species,\" so that if one can reliably tell that other humans have minds it would be sheer chauvinism to maintain one could never know whether something non-human had a mind. Lesley McLean comments that \"Justin Leiber, who Dennett cites as a source for exposing certain hidden agendas distorting objective research into animal consciousness, himself offers a subjective account for why indeed we might doubt the link between moral standing and having of a mind [Leiber 1988]...What is interesting is that neither Descartes nor Leiber thinks animals to be conscious, yet they nevertheless think them worthy of moral consideration.\" Peter Singer, Mary Midgley, and others cite L. C. Rosenfield's \"From Beast-Machine to Man-Machine: Animal Soul in French Letters from Descartes to LaMettrie\" (New York, Oxford University Press, 1941) for a ghastly account of animal cruelty by unnamed Cartesians, but Singer and the rest fail to mention that Rosenfield dismisses the account as a pious anti-Cartesian fabrication, and further, that Rosenfield maintains that Descartes himself was never accused of cruelty to animals, nor did Descartes maintain that animals could not feel pain(Leiber 1988).\n\nBegun while he was a Visiting Scientist at MIT, Justin Leiber’s first novel, \"Beyond Rejection\", starts with a lengthy description of a “mind implant” operation in which the software mind of one individual is inserted into the hardware brain and body of another. Provocative and detailed, the description has been anthologized in several text books, most notably in Douglas Hofstadter and Daniel Dennett’s The Mind's I. The novel’s protagonist, with memories of a male body, awakens to a female one and must find a way beyond rejection. In \"Beyond Humanity\", the protagonist deals with the claims to personhood of both apes and computers – themes that Hackett Publishing suggested might also be incorporated into a dialogue, \"Can Animals and Machines Be Persons?\" In \"Beyond Gravity\", Leiber’s protagonist discovers that earth has long been studied by alien “anthropologists,” who write articles about humans which appear in a journal whose title might be translated into humanese as “Primitivity Review.” As this description suggests, Leiber’s Beyond trilogy is largely taken up with issues in philosophy and cognitive science. The same might not be said of Leiber’s sword and sorcery novels \"The Sword and the Eye\" and \"The Sword and the Tower\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6139897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6139897", "title": "Kianda School", "text": "Kianda School\n\nKianda School is a private, all-girls day school with a Catholic ethos located in the Westlands area of Nairobi, Kenya. The school was opened in 1977 by The Kianda Foundation, a non-profit organisation that aims to better Kenyan women's lives through education and Christian values. The school began with 40 students but has now grown to a student body of about 830 in both its primary and secondary school sections.\n\nThe school logo consists of a palm tree to symbolise tropical Africa, a deep valley, which is the meaning of the word \"Kianda\" in several Bantu languages, and a glowing fire to symbolise a hearth, a symbol of the warmth a woman brings to the home and to society.\n\nThe school motto is In Opere et Veritate, Latin for \"In deed and in truth\". The motto was inspired by the Bible verse 1 John 3:18, which says: \" My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.\"\n\nKianda School is consistently ranked as one of the best performing schools in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (K.C.S.E) exam. Subjects offered at Kianda School are: Mathematics, English, Kiswahili, Biology, Chemistry, Physics, Home Science, Computer Studies, French, Business Studies, Geography, and History and Government.\n\nIn the KCSE exam of 2010, Kianda School was ranked 13th nationally and 4th in the private schools category with an average grade of B+. It was ranked 4th place nationally in English (Av. 11.09, A-), 5th nationally in Mathematics (Av. 10.49, B+), 8th nationally in Biology (Av. 10.43, B+) and 8th nationally in Physics (Av. 10.48, B+).\n\nFor admission to the primary school, the parents of the prospective pupil write a letter of application to the school, enclosing the child's birth certificate and a letter of recommendation from the head teacher of the child's nursery school.\n\nFor admission to the secondary school, the parents of the prospective student write a letter of application to the school, with the results of the student's mock Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (K.C.P.E) exam as well as a letter of recommendation from the head teacher of the primary school. The prospective student must then sit the Kianda Entrance Test (K.E.T) and be interviewed before the decision of admittance is made.\n\nThe basic school fees ranges from Ksh.73,000 to Ksh. 95,000 per term. There are three terms in the school year. The fees caters for tuition, books and school uniform. Additional costs include lunch, transport and music lessons.\n\nAbout 10% of the students at Kianda School receive full or partial scholarships. This ensures that no qualified student is barred from attending the school due to financial constraints. The school's Scholarship Fund has increased its endowment to better assist students who require financial aid.\n\nEmphasis is placed not only on academics but also on spiritual life, fitness and character building. Kianda School offers daily Mass, weekly meditations and annual spiritual retreats for its students. Inspired by the spirit of Opus Dei, the offering up of various aspects of daily life to God is encouraged. The annual spiritual retreats and daily mass are optional.\n\nThe tutorial system: the school considers the parents to be the primary educators. For this reason, staff and parents work together through the tutorial system, a key feature of the school. Through this system, every student has a tutor -a mentor-who gives personal guidance in all areas of her formation. The tutor maintains close contact with the parents.\nThe tutorial system allows for greater parental involvement. Parents can contribute actively in their daughter’s education, and by so doing, help to forge her character. Together with the tutor they try to bring out the best in every girl.\n\nThere are clubs and sports in which the students can take part. The clubs include Journalism, Wildlife, Home-makers, Law, Choir, Public Speaking, First-Aid, French, Kiswahili and Math & Tax. The school offers sports such as basketball, hockey, squash, swimming, taekwondo and tennis. Community service is a part of student life, and is usually done during the school holidays.\n\nKianda School has a school song and a school hymn, both of which were written by students.\n\nDiscipline is maintained by a merit-demerit system. Good deeds earn merits, while wrong ones earn demerits. An accumulation of more than five demerits a week results in detention.\n\nIn the primary school, failure to do assignments earns the student a demerit. Accumulation of 3 demerits earns a detention. However, a teacher can choose to give a student more that one demerit for a single assignment and students who appear to be rude earn a direct detention. Three detentions in a term earn a suspension. Any form of violence earns a suspension.\n\nThe Kianda School student council is called the Class Council. There is a Class Council for each class composed of four students. Students vote for the Class Council but it is ultimately the teachers and the Section Committee that decide who the Class Council members will be.\n\nThere are four school houses: Green, Yellow House, Red and Blue. Each house has a house mistress and a captain, usually a Form Four student, and an assistant captain, usually a Form Three student. The captain and her assistant are voted in annually by the teachers. The houses compete in sports, merits and demerits, and other aspects of school life. The winning house is announced at the end of the year and gets to go on a special trip while the other houses remain in school.\n\nThere are four major events in the school each year: the Family Sports Day in the second term, the Creative Arts Variety Show and Kianda Awards Days in the third term, and the annual Christmas Concert.\n\n\n\n www.kianda-foundation.org/\n"}
{"id": "3262885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3262885", "title": "Law school", "text": "Law school\n\nA law school (also known as a law centre or college of law) is an institution specializing in legal education, usually involved as part of a process for becoming a lawyer within a given jurisdiction.\n\nTo practice in Australia, one needs to graduate with a Bachelor of Laws (LLB), Juris Doctor (JD), or Diploma-in-Law issued by the Legal Profession Admission Board, followed by an internship for 12 months or an extra course in practical legal training (PLT) depending on the jurisdiction and university, and be admitted as a lawyer of one of a state's Supreme Court.\n\nIn Brazil the legal education begins between 1827/28 in Olinda/PE and São Paulo/SP where the first Schools of Law were established by the new Empire using as educational model the Coimbra Faculty of Law.\n\nNowadays the legal education consists in a 5-year-long course in which, afterwards, the scholar is granted a bachelor´s degree.\n\nTherefore, it is considered part of the higher education, hence the educational system is regulated as: i) basic education - primary, middle and high school; and ii) higher education: licentiate, bachelor and vocational ed.\n\nThe practice of law is conditioned upon admission to the bar of a particular state or other territorial jurisdiction (Ordem dos Advogados do Brasil - OAB ).\n\nPublic attorneys, public prossecutors and magistrates (judges) admission is made, mainly, through an entrance examination and a constitutional mandatory three years of legal experience. Starting from the second degree courts it is mandatory a 1/5 of its composition to be fulfilled with members of the lawyers/attorneys/barristers association and also from federal/state/labour processcutors (ministério público) regarding the court jurisdiction (it is not applied for electoral and military courts).\n\nAfter achieving the bachelor´s degree of laws it is possible to follow an i) specialization or follow ii) academically (or both), in either case it is called postgraduation: i) lato sensu; or ii) stricto sensu; respectively.\n\nThe postgraduation, stricto sensu, consists in a: a) master´s degree, which is usually a two-year degree; and a b) doctorate´s degree, which can take up another four years.\n\nThe oldest civil law faculty in Canada offering law degrees was established in 1848 at McGill University in Montreal, and the oldest common law faculty in Canada offering law degrees was established in 1883 at Dalhousie University in Halifax.\nThe typical law degree required to practice law in Canada is now the Juris Doctor, which requires previous university coursework and is similar to the first law degree in the United States. There is some scholarly content in the coursework (such as an academic research paper required in most schools). The programs consist of three years, and have similar content in their mandatory first year courses. Beyond first year and the minimum requirements for graduation, course selection is elective with various concentrations such as business law, international law, natural resources law, criminal law, Aboriginal law, etc. Some schools, however, have not switched from LL.B. to the J.D. – one notable university that still awards the LL.B is McGill University.\n\nGiven that the Canadian legal system includes both the French civil law and the Anglo-American common law, some law schools offer both an LL.B. or J.D. (common law) and a B.C.L., LL.L. or LL.B. (civil law) degree, such as McGill University, University of Ottawa and the Université de Montréal. In particular, McGill University Faculty of Law offers a combined civil law and common law program, which has been called \"transsystemic.\" At other faculties, if a person completes a common law degree, then a civil law degree can be obtained with only an extra year of study. This is also true for civil law graduates who wish to complete a common law degree.\n\nDespite changes in designation, schools opting for the J.D. have not altered their curricula. Neither the J.D. or LL.B. alone is sufficient to qualify for a Canadian license, as each Province's law society requires an apprenticeship and successful completion of provincial skills and responsibilities training course, such as the British Columbia Law Society's Professional Legal Training Course, the Law Society of Upper Canada's Skills and Responsibilities Training Program. and the École du Barreau du Québec.\n\nThe main reason for implementing the J.D. in Canada was to distinguish the degree from the European counterpart that requires no previous post-secondary education, However, in the eyes of the Canadian educational system, the J.D. awarded by Canadian universities has retained the characteristics of the LL.B. and is considered a second entry program, but not a graduate program. (This position is analogous to the position taken by Canadian universities that the M.D. and D.D.S. degrees are considered second entry programs and not graduate programs.) Nevertheless, disagreement persists regarding the status of the degrees, such as at the University of Toronto, where the J.D. degree designation has been marketed by the Faculty of Law as superior to the LL.B. degree designation.\n\nSome universities have developed joint Canadian LL.B or J.D. and American J.D programs, such as York University and New York University, the University of Windsor and the University of Detroit Mercy, and the University of Ottawa and Michigan State University program.\n\nLaw school is usually entered to at the undergraduate level in a university. There is an intermediate bachelor's degree (\"oikeusnotaari\"), but the target is the master's degree in law (\"oikeustieteen maisteri\"; until 2005 \"oikeustieteen kandidaatti\"). Once university education is complete, the title of \"varatuomari\" (VT) is obtained with an one-year externship in a district court. This is the basic qualification to practice law. With further experience, the candidate may be admitted to the Finnish Bar Association and licensed with the legally protected title \"asianajaja\", similar to barrister.\n\nIn France, the legal education is a three tier system. The student may study for a LLB (\"licence de droit\"), then a LLM (\"master de droit\") and, for those interested in Law theory, a PhD in Law (\"doctorat de droit\").\n\nMany French universities offers Law courses in department labelled as Research and Education Units (\"unité de formation et de recherche\") and/or Faculties of Law or Law Schools.\n\nA LLM-level is a prerequisite for some legal professions, but is combined with vocational education, such as the école nationale de la magistrature for judges and the \"Certificat d'aptitude aux fonctions d'avocat\" for advocates.\n\nLaw Degree in Indonesia consists of three tier systems. The first tier is the Degree of which carries the title of Sarjana Hukum/S.H. (Bachelor of Law). This can be obtained in 4–7 years after they enter Law School straight from Senior High School.\n\nThe second tier varies depending on the legal specialties taken after the first tier. The general title for this tier is Magister Hukum / M.H. (Master in Law). Although it is also common to see other title for secondary tier such as Magister Kenotariatan / M.Kn. (Master in Notary) for Notarial professionals line of work. The second tier can be obtained normally in 1-2 year.\n\nThe third tier in Indonesian Law Degree is Doctor / DR. (Doctor in Law).\n\nTo work in legal professions of choice in Indonesia, a Bachelor Law Degree (S.H.) is obligatory. Graduates can pursue their career as Legal in-house counsel, Judge profession (requires admission and further training at Supreme Court Educational Center), Public Prosecutor (requires admission and further training at Public Prosecutor Educational and Training Center), other legal-related work and Advocate.\n\nTo become an Advocate, Law Graduate should attend an Advocate Special Course (1–2 months) and pass the Bar exam. The title Advocate can be obtained after a graduate passes the Bar exam and fulfill several obligation and requirements created by the Indonesian Advocates Association (PERADI), and is a prerequisite for practicing trial law in Indonesia.\n\nList of some School of Law in Indonesia\n\nIn India, legal education has been traditionally offered as a three-year graduate degree. However, the structure has been changed since 1987. Law degrees in India are granted and conferred in terms of the Advocates Act, 1961, which is a law passed by the Parliament both on the aspect of legal education and also regulation of conduct of legal profession. Under the act, the Bar Council of India is the supreme regulatory body to regulate the legal profession in India and also to ensure the compliance of the laws and maintenance of professional standards by the legal profession in the country.\n\nTo this regard, the Bar Council of India prescribes the minimum curriculum required to be taught in order for an institution to be eligible for the grant of a law degree. The Bar Council also carries on a periodic supervision of the institutions conferring the degree and evaluates their teaching methodology and curriculum and having determined that the institution meets the required standards, recognizes the institution and the degree conferred by it.\n\nTraditionally the degrees that were conferred carried the title of LL.B. (Bachelor of Laws) or B.L. (Bachelor of Law). The eligibility requirement for these degrees was that the applicant already have a Bachelor's degree in any subject from a recognized institution. Thereafter the LL.B. / B.L. course was for three years, upon the successful completion of which the applicant was granted either degree.\n\nHowever, upon the suggestion by the Law Commission of India and also given the prevailing cry for reform, the Bar Council of India instituted upon an experiment in terms of establishing specialized law universities solely devoted to legal education and thus to raise the academic standards of legal profession in India. This decision was taken somewhere in 1985 and thereafter the first law University in India was set up in Bangalore which was named as the National Law School of India University (popularly 'NLS'). These law universities were meant to offer a multi-disciplinary and integrated approach to legal education. It was therefore for the first time that a law degree other than LL.B. or B.L. was granted in India. NLS offered a five-year law course, upon the successful completion of which an integrated degree with the title of \"B.A.,LL.B. (Honours)\" would be granted.\n\nThereafter, other law universities were set up, all offering five-year integrated law degrees with different nomenclature. The next in line was National Law Institute University set up in Bhopal in 1997. It was followed by NALSAR university of law in 1998. The Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University in Delhi offered a five-year integrated law degree course of LL.B (Honours) from 1998 and subsequently from 2007 started to award the B.A.,LL.B / B.B.A.LL.B (Honours). The Mysore University School of Justice set up by the University of Mysore in Mysore offered a five-year integrated law degree course of B.A.,LL.B (Honours) from 2007. The course for three years LL.B. is also regularized in University of Delhi as an option for post graduation after the completion of graduation degree. The National Law University, Jodhpur offered for the first time in 2001 the integrated law degree of \"B.B.A, LL.B. (Honours)\" which was preceded by the West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences offering the \"B.Sc., LL.B. (Honours)\" degree. Gujarat National Law University established in Gandhinagar also offers LL.B.\n\nHowever, despite these specialized law universities, the traditional three-year degree continues to be offered in India by other institutions and are equally recognized as eligible qualifications for practicing law in India. Another essential difference that remains is that while the eligibility qualification for the three year law degree is that the applicant must already be a holder of a bachelor's degree, for being eligible for the five years integrated law degree, the applicant must have successfully completed Class XII from a recognized Boards of Education in India.\n\nBoth the holders of the three-year degree and of the five-year integrated degree are eligible for enrollment with the Bar Council of India upon the fulfillment of eligibility conditions and upon enrollment, may appear before any court in India.\n\nIn Hong Kong, which generally follows the English common law system, an undergraduate L.L.B. is common, followed by a one or two year Postgraduate Certificate in Laws before one can begin a training contract (solicitors) or a pupillage (barristers).\n\nCity University of Hong Kong - http://www.cityu.edu.hk/\n\nThe Chinese University of Hong Kong - http://www.cuhk.edu.hk/\n\nThe University of Hong Kong - https://www.hku.hk/\n\nIn Iran, the legal education has been influenced both by civil law and Islamic Shari'ah law. Like many countries, after high school, one can enter the law school. The first law degree is LL.B. It takes about four years to get LL.B. The first graduate program in law is LL.M. It takes about two to three years to earn an LL.M. The LL.M. is a mix of course work in a specific field of law and a dissertation. The Ph.D. in law is the highest law degree offered by some law schools. It takes about 5–7 years depending on the school as well as the students.\n\nSee Legal education#Japan.\n\nLaw degree programs are considered graduate programs in the Philippines. As such, admission to law schools requires the completion of a bachelor's degree, with a sufficient number of credits or units in certain subject areas.\n\nGraduation from a Philippine law school constitutes the primary eligibility requirement for the Philippine Bar Examination, the national licensure examination for practicing lawyers in the country. The bar examination is administered by the Supreme Court of the Philippines during the month of September every year.\n\nAs of 2011 the bar examinations were held during November.\n\nThe University of Santo Tomas Faculty of Civil Law was the first secular faculty, and hence the oldest law school in the Philippines.\n\nIn Singapore, the primary route for obtaining a legal education to qualify as a practicing lawyer is via a 4-year Bachelor of Laws (LL.B.) degree from either the National University of Singapore Faculty of Law, or the Singapore Management University School of Law. A third law school affiliated to the Singapore University of Social Sciences will commence its first intake in 2017, aimed primarily at producing law graduates focused on family, criminal and community justice law, as there is a pressing need for lawyers practicing in these areas.\n\nAdditionally, the SMU School of Law offers the 3-year Juris Doctor degree for aspiring candidates who have already completed a prior undergraduate course of study and who have been award a bachelor's degree in another field. The SMU J.D. is recognised for qualification to the Singapore Bar.\n\nThere are several private law schools in Singapore that are run by private education providers and which also award the Bachelor of Laws degree. These private law schools are neither recognised nor supported by the government and their graduates are, in the vast majority of cases, ineligible for qualification to the Singapore Bar.\n\nNational University of Singapore\n\nSingapore Management University\n\nSingapore University of Social Sciences\n\nStansfield College\n\nIn Serbia, prospective students are required to pass an admission test for enrollment in a law school. The legal education is a three tier system – 4-year bachelor's degree studies, 1-year Master of Law and 5-year doctoral studies. The Belgrade Law School is the most distinguished and largest by capacity in Serbia. Courses are offered in Serbian and English.\n\nOn July 3, 2007, the Korean National Assembly passed legislation introducing 'Law School', closely modeled on the American post-graduate system. Moreover, naturally, since March 2, 2009, 25 (both public and private) 3-year professional Law Schools that officially approved by Korean Government, has been opened to teach future Korean lawyers. The first bar test to the lawschool graduates was scheduled in 2012.\n\nIn Sri Lanka to practice law, one must be admitted and enrolled as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka. This is achieved by passing law exams at the Sri Lanka Law College, which are administered by the Council of Legal Education and spending a period of six months under a practicing attorney of at least 8 years standing. To undertake law exams students must gain admission to the Sri Lanka Law College and study law or directly undertake exams after gaining a LL.B. from a local or foreign university.\n\nIn Sweden, the route for obtaining a legal education to qualify as a practicing lawyer is via a 4-and-a-half-year Master of Laws (LL.M.) degree (270 ECTS).\n\n\nIn Taiwan, law is primarily studied as an undergraduate program resulting in a Bachelor of Law (B.L.). Students receive academic rather than practical training. Practical training is arranged after the individual passes the lawyer, judge, or prosecutor exams.\n\nA degree in law (bachelor, master or doctor) is a pre-requisite for Taiwan's bar examination. According to Ministry of Examination figures, the pass rate for the 2011 exam was 10.6%. Since the bar exam is conducted in Chinese, a native level of language fluency is expected.\n\nA non-citizen may take the Attorney Qualification Examination. According to Articles 5 and 20 of the Regulations on Attorney Qualification Examination (Bar Exam), non-citizens are allowed to participate in the bar examination with a degree in law earned in Taiwan. Non-citizens are not allowed to sit in the prosecutor or judge examinations unless they are naturalized citizens of Taiwan. Once a non-citizen is approved to practice law in Taiwan, he or she must abide by all statutes related to the legal practice, Codes of Legal Ethics, and the Articles of Incorporation of the Bar Association to which they are members.\n\nIn the United States, law school is a postgraduate program usually lasting three years and resulting in the conferral upon graduates of the Juris Doctor (J.D.) law degree. Some schools in Louisiana concurrently award a Graduate Diploma in Civil Law (D.C.L.). To gain admission to a law school that is accredited by the American Bar Association (ABA), applicants must usually take the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), and have an undergraduate (bachelor's) degree in any major. Currently, there are 205 ABA-approved law schools that grant the JD degree. There currently are five online law schools that are unaccredited by the ABA but registered by the State Bar of California. Non-ABA approved law schools have much lower bar passage rates than ABA-approved law schools, and do not submit or disclose employment outcome data to the ABA.\n\nAccording to a study by labor economists Michael Simkovic and Frank McIntyre, a law degree increases the present value of lifetime earnings in the U.S. by $1,000,000 compared to a bachelor's degree. According to the United States Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics, the national average salary for lawyers in 2012 was above $130,000. Salaries vary by geography, with higher average salaries in big cities—especially New York, Washington, D.C., Chicago, and Los Angeles—and lower salaries in rural areas. An unpublished table produced by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that unemployment rates among experienced lawyers are lower than those for most high-income occupations. BLS data also suggests that lawyer employment has grown slightly faster than other occupations, with lawyers comprising a growing share of the work force over the last decade.\nHowever, not all recent law graduates work as lawyers. According to Simkovic and McIntyre's study of U.S. Census Bureau data, around 40 percent of U.S. residents with law degrees do not practice law. Law graduates are disproportionately represented in leadership positions in business and government. The National Association for Legal Career Professionals produces an annual report summarizing the employment of recent graduates of U.S. law schools at a single point in time, 9 months of graduation. Employment at that point is typically around 90 percent, although from 2009 to 2011, the numbers have been lower, at around 86 to 88 percent. Approximately 2 percent of graduates were employed in non-professional jobs. Approximately 75 to 85 percent work in jobs classified by NALP as \"JD required\" or \"JD preferred\", and another 5 percent work in other professional jobs. However, a law degree increases earnings, even including those who do not practice law.\n\nSome schools offer a Master of Laws (LL.M.) program as a way of specializing in a particular area of law. A further possible degree is the academic doctoral degree in law of Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) (in the U.S or Canada)., or the Doctor of Laws (LL.D.) in Canada or the UK, or the Ph.D. in Law from European or Australasian universities.\n\nIn addition to attending law school, many jurisdictions require law school graduates to pass a state or provincial bar examination before they may practice law. The Multistate Bar Examination is part of the bar examination in almost all United States jurisdictions. Generally, the standardized, common law subject matter of the MBE is combined with state-specific essay questions to produce a comprehensive bar examination.\n\nIn other common law countries the bar exam is often replaced by a period of work with a law firm known as articles of clerkship.\n\nWhile law schools in the U.S. and Canada are typically post-graduate institutions with considerable autonomy, legal education in other countries is provided within the mainstream educational system from university level and/or in non-degree conferring vocational training institutions.\n\nIn countries such as the United Kingdom and most of continental Europe, academic legal education is provided within the mainstream university system starting at the undergraduate level, and the legal departments of universities are simply departments like any other rather than separate \"law schools\". In these countries, the term \"law school\" may be used, but it does not have the same definition as it does in North America. The same is true for private Law Schools, e.g. in Germany two private law schools have been established, Bucerius Law School in Hamburg and EBS Law School in Wiesbaden which are termed law schools but follow the usual German path of legal education.\n\nThere are also sometimes legal colleges that provide vocational training as a post-academic stage of legal education. One example is the University of Law in the United Kingdom, which provides certain professional qualifications lawyers in England and Wales must obtain before they may practice as solicitors or barristers.\n\nIn Australia, law schools such as the Melbourne Law School, the Adelaide Law School, and the Sydney Law School have emphasised a combination of the British and American systems. However, other universities such as the University of New South Wales, the Australian National University and Monash University are known for their practical work.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6980368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6980368", "title": "Maritime College of Forest Technology", "text": "Maritime College of Forest Technology\n\nThe Maritime College of Forest Technology (French: Collège de Technologie forestière des Maritimes) is a Canadian post-secondary college with campuses located in Fredericton, New Brunswick (English instruction) and Bathurst, New Brunswick (French instruction).\n\nThe Maritime College of Forest Technology (MCFT), formerly the Maritime Forest Ranger School (MFRS), in Fredericton, New Brunswick was established in April 1946, as a co-operative effort of the provincial governments of New Brunswick and Nova Scotia, and the wood-using industries of the two provinces. The MCFT fulfils a regional mandate.\n\nThe original location for MFRS was on the grounds owned by the University of New Brunswick which housed Alexander College and is known today as the Fredericton Exhibition Grounds. In 1949 MFRS moved to its new location overlooking the Saint John River Valley; at that time MFRS was the sole occupant of the land until the new campus was constructed in 1986. The current campus is part of the Hugh John Flemming Forestry Centre and is shared with the Canadian Forest Service and Department of Natural Resources. Present facilities at the Fredericton Campus were completed in 1986. The francophone campus in Bathurst was established in 1980 and the campus is shared with the Collège communautaire du Nouveau-Brunswick.\n\nFrom 1946 to 2003 the college was known as the Maritime Forest Ranger School and its curriculum was one year in length. In 2003 the college began its new two-year program and with that came the change in name to the Maritime College of Forest Technology. In 2008 MCFT began offering, in addition to the Forest Technology Program, an Advanced Diploma in Forest and Fish & Wildlife Technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "54944564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54944564", "title": "Melbourne City of Literature", "text": "Melbourne City of Literature\n\nMelbourne City of Literature is a City of Literature located in Victoria, Australia, as part of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network. It was designated by UNESCO in 2008 as the second City of Literature, after Edinburgh. In 2014, the Melbourne City of Literature Office was established, directed by David Ryding. The Office is hosted at the Wheeler Centre and is dedicated to supporting Melbourne as a City of Literature through one-off programs and projects, partnerships with the literary sector, and international exchanges with other UNESCO Cities of Literature.\n\nThe Melbourne City of Literature Office is funded by Creative Victoria and the City of Melbourne. In 2017, the Office was awarded a \"gold star assessment\" from the UN.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30333909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30333909", "title": "Michael W. Allen", "text": "Michael W. Allen\n\nMichael W. Allen (born 1946) is an American software developer, educator, and author.\nHe is known for his work on e-learning, and led the development of the Authorware software.\n\nAllen received a BA in psychology from Cornell College, and MA and Ph.D. from the Ohio State University in educational psychology. \nFrom 1971 to 1984 Allen worked for Control Data Corporation on its PLATO computer-based education system . He rose to be director of advanced educational systems R&D.\nAllen founded Authorware in 1984, incorporating it in 1985. Authorware merged with MacroMind-Paracomp in 1992 to form Macromedia, which was later bought by Adobe Systems.\n\nAllen formed a spinoff of the professional services division of Authorware called MediaPros, which was acquired by Lifetouch, Inc. a year later.\n\nHe founded Allen Interactions, Inc. in 1993, acting as chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The company designs custom interactive e-learning applications and provides consulting and training services.\n\nHe founded Allen Learning Technologies in 2010 and serves as chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The company announced project Zebra in 2010, a new e-learning authoring system.\n\nHe is associated with the University of Minnesota School of Public Health as an adjunct associate professor in the Department of Family Medicine and Community Health.\nHe consulted on a study that used e-learning to reduce the spread of HIV.\nAllen is the author of several books, most notable being Michael Allen's Guide to e-Learning, and is editor of Michael Allen’s e-Learning Annual, first published in February 2008.\nIn May 2011 the American Society for Training & Development presented him a distinguished contribution award.\n\nAllen was a 2012 Ellis Island Medal of Honor Recipient by the National Ethnic Coalition of Organizations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59011525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59011525", "title": "Ministry of Education (Iraqi Kurdistan)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Iraqi Kurdistan)\n\nThe Ministry of Education () is the Iraqi Kurdistan government body responsible for education in Iraqi Kurdistan. established in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "6564837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6564837", "title": "Nathan Englander", "text": "Nathan Englander\n\nNathan Englander (born 1970) is an American short story writer and novelist. His debut short story collection, \"For the Relief of Unbearable Urges,\" was published by Alfred A. Knopf, in 1999. His second collection, \"What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank\", won the 2012 Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award and was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.\n\nNathan Englander was born in West Hempstead on Long Island, New York, and grew up there as part of the Orthodox Jewish community. He attended the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County for high school and graduated from the State University of New York at Binghamton and the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa. In the mid-1990s, he moved to Israel, where he lived for five years.\n\nEnglander lives in Brooklyn, New York and Madison, Wisconsin. He taught fiction as a part of CUNY Hunter College's Master of Fine Arts Program in Creative Writing and currently teaches fiction in the MFA program at New York University.\n\nSince the publication of \"For the Relief of Unbearable Urges\", Englander has received a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Bard Fiction Prize, and a fellowship at the Dorothy and Lewis B. Cullman Center for Scholars and Writers at the New York Public Library. Four of his short stories have appeared in editions of \"The Best American Short Stories\": \"The Gilgul of Park Avenue\" appeared in the 2000 edition, with guest editor E.L. Doctorow, \"How We Avenged the Blums\" appeared in the 2006 edition, guest edited by Ann Patchett, \"Free Fruit for Young Widows\" appeared in the 2011 edition, guest edited by Geraldine Brooks, and \"What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank\" appeared in the 2012 edition, guest edited by Tom Perrotta. Another story in the collection, \"The Twenty-Seventh Man,\" debuted as a play in November, 2012, the subject of a radio program featuring audio of a reading by actor Michael Stuhlbarg.\n\n\"The Ministry of Special Cases,\" Englander's follow-up to his debut collection, was released on April 24, 2007. The novel is set in 1976 in Buenos Aires during Argentina's \"Dirty War\" and has been described as \"an impeccably paced, historically accurate novel which is alternatively side-splitting and frighteningly macabre.\" Englander has said of his novel: \"... I resisted calling it a political book, in that it wasn’t my intent—that is, I had no corrupting (as I’d see it) preconceived position that I was pushing. There’s a lot of politics in my novel, because it’s central to the world of that novel.\"\n\nEnglander's third book, \"What We Talk About When We Talk About Anne Frank\", a short story collection, was released on February 7, 2012. The title story was featured in the December 12, 2011 issue of \"The New Yorker\", and the book won the 2012 Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award and was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction.\n\nIn 2017, Englander was announced as juror for the 2017 Scotiabank Giller Prize.\n\n\n\nStories online:\n"}
{"id": "58995838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58995838", "title": "Native Scientist", "text": "Native Scientist\n\nNative Scientist is a non-profit organisation created to tackle educational disadvantage through science outreach. It develops and implements outreach and educational programmes that connect migrant pupils and scientists with the aim to promote science and language literacy through language integrated learning. Its aims include inspiring migrant kids across Europe to consider careers in STEM and training scientists to communicate their work to non-scientists. In 2017/2018, Native Scientist reached over 1000 pupils in seven different countries and engaged hundreds of scientists. \n\nNative Schools: this project brings international scientists to schools, to meet pupils and speak in their native language about science. This project operates in several European countries (England, Scotland, France, Norway, Germany, Sweden, Ireland and the Netherlands) covering 10 different languages (Portuguese, German, French, Spanish, Italian, Polish, Estonian, Greek, Turkish and Arabic).\n\nNative Explores: this project brings pupils to labs or museums. The first events happened at Lancaster University , King's College London and Dynamic Earth, in Edinburgh.\n\nNative Books: launched in December 2016, it aims at creating educational resources authored by scientists, which can be used by teachers and parents to promote science and language learning. The first edition is in Portuguese and the second one in German. \n\nNative Aware: a collection of interviews to raise awareness about the benefits and challenges of being multilingual. \n\nOther bespoken projects include Challenging Assumptions , in collaboration with the Goethe-Institut, and Os Cientistas Explicam, in partnership with Rádio Miúdos, the first Portuguese radio station for children.\n\nNative Scientist is supported by the Calouste_Gulbenkian_Foundation, the Goethe-Institut, MathWorks, Ciência Viva, The_London_Community_Foundation, Biochemical_Society and the Elsevier Foundation.\nIn addition, Native Scientist has strategic partnerships with Instituto Camões, PARSUK, asppa, AGRAFr, SRUK, GPS, Lusofonias, UCLU Spanish & Latin American Society, La Scuola Italiana a Londra, Rádio Miúdos, ABEP-UK, APC Microbiome Ireland, AISUK, Mother Tongues, Bigkid Foundation, Dynamic Earth, King's College London, Oval Learning Cluster, 2018 European Year of Cultural Heritage, Trinity College Dublin, Lambeth Portuguese Wellbeing Partnership, Lancaster University, Tubingen University and LEAD Graduate School & Research Network.\n\nNative Scientist has been recognised with multiple awards:\n\nNative Scientist created the Native Awards to recognise the creativity of pupils that participate in the Native Schools project. Pupils are asked to draw what a scientist is for them, as well as to imagine and write a sentence of what they would do if they were a scientist. \n\n"}
{"id": "19823774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19823774", "title": "NetCorps", "text": "NetCorps\n\nNetCorps (French: \"Cyberjeunes\") was a volunteer-organizing coalition consisting of nine Canadian non-governmental organizations (NGOs), funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and managed by the NetCorps coordination unit. Through the program, the organizations created international information and communication technologies (ICT) internships in developing countries around the world. Interns typically participated in six-month programs, leaving between August and November for host organizations in the placement countries. Positions were limited to 19–30-year-old Canadian citizens or landed immigrants who had \"appropriate information and communication technologies skills\". Typical duties included creating webpages, developing databases, computer networking, setting up hardware, preparing manuals and other documentation, and general-to-advanced computer instruction.\n\n\nDuring the 2007-2008 season, the program placed 240 interns and was funded by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and Human Resources and Social Development Canada (HRSDC) at a cost of C$4.6 million. The program covered all travel and accommodation expenses for the interns, provided a modest living allowance and a completion bonus.\n\nNetCorps Canada International was conceived in 1996 by Dr. David Johnston (Governor General of Canada as of 2011 and former President of the University of Waterloo), a prominent lawyer and adviser to the federal government on information-highway issues.\n\nIn 1997 Industry Canada, in partnership with the Special Initiatives Division of Canada's International Development Research Centre (IDRC), funded a NetCorps-style test project that sent two residents of Cape Breton to Angola for Internet and Geographic Information Systems projects. This NetCorps conceptualization and placement was done through the Centre for Community and Enterprise Networking (C/CEN) and Dr.Michael Gurstein, Director of the Centre and (at the time) Chair in the Management of Technology Change at the University College of Cape Breton. An initial NetCorps training program and manual were produced as a result of this program. Notably, the two placements in Angola were of previously unemployed young adults from Cape Breton; they were provided with training in Linux through C/CEN as part of a demonstration program in the economic benefits that could be achieved through local investment in Information and Communications Technologies in economically marginal regions.\n\nIn 1998 the efforts of Industry Canada, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) and a consortium of Canada’s largest international development volunteer-sending agencies secured 14 internships in Africa, Asia and Latin America.\n\nFurther collaboration with Industry Canada and the consortium of international development agencies in 1998 saw the Canadian International Development Agency offer 30 internships in the Americas. This phase was announced by the Prime Minister at the 2nd Summit of the Americas in Santiago, Chile in April 1998.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2006, the NetCorps consortium sent more than 1700 NetCorps volunteers overseas, due to the collaboration of Industry Canada and the Youth Employment Strategy financed by Human Resources and Skills Development Canada (HRSDC).\n\nIn 2006–2007, the consortium successfully organized the placement of 236 volunteers in collaboration with Industry Canada and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA). 2006-2007 was the last year that Industry Canada would be involved in the NetCorps program.\n\nFor 2007–2008, (CIDA) replaced Industry Canada as funders of the NetCorps program. The 240 placements offered that year were once again part of the Government of Canada’s youth-employment strategy.\n\nThe program was discontinued indefinitely as of the 2008–2009 season.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33063047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33063047", "title": "Peer instruction", "text": "Peer instruction\n\nPeer instruction is an evidence-based, interactive teaching method popularized by Harvard Professor Eric Mazur in the early 1990s. Originally used in many schools, including introductory undergraduate physics classes at Harvard University, peer instruction is used in various disciplines and institutions around the globe. It is a student-centered approach that involves flipping the traditional classroom by moving information transfer out and moving information assimilation, or application of learning, into the classroom. There is some research that supports the effectiveness of peer instruction over more traditional teaching methods, such as pure lecture.\n\nPeer instruction as a learning system involves students preparing to learn outside of class by doing pre-class readings and answering questions about those readings using another method, called Just in Time Teaching. Then, in class, the instructor engages students by posing prepared conceptual questions or ConcepTests that are based on student difficulties. The questioning procedure outlined by Eric Mazur is as follows:\nPeer instruction is now used in a range of institutional types around the globe and in many other disciplines, including philosophy, psychology, geology, biology, math, computer science and engineering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17873167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17873167", "title": "Problem set", "text": "Problem set\n\nA problem set is a teaching tool used by many universities. Most courses in physics, math, engineering, chemistry, and computer science will give problem sets on a regular basis. They can also appear in other subjects, such as economics.\n\nIt is essentially a list of several mildly difficult problems or exercises based on material already taught, which the student is expected to solve with a full written solution. There is no further research involved, and the goal is to learn and become familiar with the material and solving typical problems. They are usually issued once every week or two weeks, and due one or two weeks later. If used as part of a summative assessment they are usually given a low weight, between 10% and 25% of the total mark of the course for all problem sets put together, and sometimes will count for nothing if the student receives a better grade on the exam. Alternatively, problem sets may be used purely for formative assessment and do not count towards a degree.\n\nMany students work in groups to solve them and help get a better understanding of the material, but most professors require each student to hand in their own individual problem set. Some professors explicitly encourage collaboration, some allow it, and some explicitly disallow it or consider it cheating. Most, however, do not disallow collaboration, because they see the goal as primarily pedagogical. This is to be distinguished from larger, more important assignments, for which students are still expected to work independently.\n\nCollaboration on problem sets has caused controversy, including a media storm around a student of Ryerson University, Chris Avenir, who started a forum on the social networking site Facebook for others to post their solutions. Despite passing the class, the professor failed him for his actions and he was recommended for expulsion, though the university faculty appeal committee overturned the recommended penalty, and gave him a zero grade for the assignments that were done through the course of the semester.\n\n"}
{"id": "28130568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28130568", "title": "Quality Assurance Authority for Education and Training", "text": "Quality Assurance Authority for Education and Training\n\nThe Quality Assurance Authority for Education and Training (QAAET) is the governmental education quality assurance authority in Bahrain. \nAs a part of the National Education and Training Reform Project, which is an initiative of HRH Crown Prince, a decision was taken to ensure that there is quality of education at all levels within the Kingdom of Bahrain. The Quality Assurance Authority for Education & Training was established by the Royal Decree No. 32 of 2008 amended by the Royal Decree No. 6 of 2009. In terms of Article (4) of the decree, its mandate is to ‘review the quality of the performance of education and training institutions in light of the guiding indicators developed by the Authority’. The Authority is also required to publish review reports as well as to report annually on the status of education within the Kingdom; this includes findings as well as improvements that have occurred as a result of the Authority’s activities.\nQAAET is an independent authority that carries out its mandated under the directions of His Excellency Shaikh Khalid bin Abdulla Al Khalifa, Deputy Prime Minister, Chairman of the Quality Assurance Authority for Education and Training. The Authority is regulated by the Council of Ministers and reports to it. \nTo meet this mandate, four units were established within the QAAET: the Schools Review Unit, the Vocational Review Unit, the Higher Education Review Unit, and the National Examinations Unit.\nQAAET is a member of the Arab Network for Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ANQAHE).\n\nThe Schools Review Unit is responsible for evaluating and reporting on the quality of provision in schools, establishing success measures, spreading best practice and making recommendations for school improvement. \nThe Unit requires each school to provide a post- Review Action Plan which is signed off by the Ministry. The Action Plan should be received 6 weeks after the school receives the draft review report. After signing off the Action Plan, the Ministry should support and monitor improvement.\n\nThe Vocational Review Unit identifies strengths and areas for improvement in vocational education and training providers, focuses on the achievement and experience of learners, recommends how weaknesses might be addressed, promotes improvement and a culture of self-evaluation and accountability among providers, spreads best practices and offers policy advice to key stakeholders.\n\nThe Higher Education Review Unit conducts reviews into the quality assurance arrangements of higher education institutions and identifies areas in need of improvement and areas of strength, conducts programme reviews within higher education institutions, and ensures that higher education providers are publicly accountable.\nProviders are required to submit Improvement Plans to the Unit 3 months after publication of reports, which address the findings of the review reports irrespective of whether the review was about the institution’s quality assurance arrangements as a whole or regarding a particular programme.\n\nThe National Examinations Unit is responsible for independently and nationwide examine the four core subjects of Mathematics, Science, Arabic and English in Grades 3, 6 and 9 to evaluate learning progress against the national curriculum, publish information on student, class and school performance, establish and implement examination requirements for Grade 12, and work with different stakeholders to improve education in Bahrain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30404626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30404626", "title": "Rudolf Steiner University College", "text": "Rudolf Steiner University College\n\nRudolf Steiner University College (; RSH) is a state-accredited and state-funded private university college in Oslo, Norway.\nIt was founded in 1981 and is recognised under the Law for Private University Colleges and is fully state-funded (state funding increased gradually from 50% in 1983 to 100% from 1997 onwards). The university college offers bachelor's degrees in Waldorf education for teachers and kindergarten teachers, a master's degree in Waldorf education, and various other courses. \nIt is organised as a non-profit foundation, and its board of trustees is chaired by Cato Schiøtz.\n\nIn cooperation with the Alanus University of Arts and Social Sciences (Germany), the university college publishes the international academic journal \"Research on Steiner Education\". It is also involved in cooperation with East European countries, hosting the International Waldorf Summer Seminar.\n\nSince 1994, the former Berle School in Professor Dahls gate 30, Frogner, has served as its main building. The college also has a campus in Fyresdal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2946946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2946946", "title": "Sister Mary Leo", "text": "Sister Mary Leo\n\nDame Sister Mary Leo, (3 April 18955 May 1989) was a New Zealand religious sister who is best known for training some of the world's finest sopranos, including Dames Malvina Major, Kiri Te Kanawa, and Heather Begg.\n\nShe was born as Kathleen Agnes Niccol in Auckland and educated by the Sisters of Mercy. She had a talent for music and eventually adopted the vocation of a teacher of music. She took private classes in dancing, elocution, and singing.\n\nShe became joined the Sisters of Mercy at the age of 28, taking the religious name Sister Mary Leo. She occupied herself in the work of her religious institute in tending to the sick and needy. Sister Mary Leo initially began her teaching career as a violin teacher. She never received formal training in vocal technique. It was in the late 1930s, after she heard a recording of Deanna Durbin and was so taken with Durbin's natural tone, flexible technique, vocal range, and repertoire that included both opera and light music, that she decided to devote her time to teaching singing.\n\nShe developed the already strong musical tradition of St Mary's College in Auckland, with its orchestra, choirs, and individual tuition, and also conducted the Sisters' Choir. From 1934, the college offered private tuition, and her reputation as a vocal coach flourished.\n\nFrom 1950 on, honours and plaudits followed the success of such students as Dame Malvina Major, Dame Kiri Te Kanawa, Dame Heather Begg, Mina Foley, Judith Edwards, Elisabeth Hellawell, Patricia Price, Mona Ross, Elaine Dow and Leo's influence extended into the rock music world with student Jan Hellriegel.\n\nIn 1980 the Grand Opera Society of Auckland established the Dame Sister Mary Leo Scholarship in her honor. She was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 1963 New Year Honours and elevated a Dame Commander of the Order (DBE) in the 1973 Birthday Honours. She died in 1989, aged 94.\n"}
{"id": "8368428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8368428", "title": "Stephen Howard Naegle", "text": "Stephen Howard Naegle\n\nStephen Howard Naegle, American watercolor artist, was born in Toquerville, Utah in 1938. He attended first, Southern Utah University and later graduated with a Bachelor of Fine Arts Degree and Master of Fine Arts Degree in 1968 and 1969, respectively, from Utah State University. \nHe taught art, drawing, ceramics and sculpture at Arkansas Polytechnic College, Russellville, Arkansas and Casper College, Casper Wyoming. Mr. Naegle created possibly thousands of watercolors in his short 42 years, as well as a number of major oil paintings.\n\nA former student of Mr. Naegle decided to create a website documenting his life's work beginning in 2004. Three hundred seventeen art works are now documented on this website, . The site contains biographical information, a catalogue of works, photographs of many of his paintings, and a few short stories of his life. This is an educational, not-for-profit website. A work in progress, additional works are sought to broaden the depth of the artist's work.\n\nPublications containing information regarding Mr. Naegle are:\n1.) Masters of Western Art, Mary Carroll Nelson, Watson/Guptill Publications, New York, 1981. 2.) Stephen Naegle, a booklet, Nicolaysen Art Museum, Casper, Wyoming, 1988. 3.) Plant Forms and Weathered Buildings in Watercolor, Master's Thesis on Microfilm, Stephen H. Naegle, Utah State University, Merril-Cazier Library, 1969.\n\n4.) Southwest Art Magazine, Annual Collectors Edition, October 1980. Stephen Naegle exhibit announced by C. G. Rein Galleries of Scottsdale, Arizona, page 22, exhibit opening October 23, 1980. Naegle oil painting, Navajo Sandstone - Sunrise, 50 by 60 inches displayed in the ad copy. Rein calls Mr. Naegle a contemporary \"luminist\". 5.) Online at Naeglefriends.org, 317 documented works, many with images, most in color. Also biographical information, short stories about the painter, and information about submissions for adding Naegle paintings to the Naegle Catalogue of Works, 2004 - 2007.\n"}
{"id": "56377346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56377346", "title": "Sunni Students Council", "text": "Sunni Students Council\n\nThe Sunni Students Council is a council for Muslim students headquartered at Kerala. Currently 3486 Members and 68 staffs serving for the organization. The mission of the organization is \"Giving the Muslim students the necessary knowledge about the Humanity and Indian culture and Blocking from the Wrong things like Terrorism and Wahhabism.\n"}
{"id": "23941310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23941310", "title": "The Conveni 200X", "text": "The Conveni 200X\n\nThe Conveni 200X is a convenience store simulation game designed for the Xbox 360 system. The game was released on March 30, 2006, and was developed by Masterpiece and published by Hamster Corporation\n\n"}
{"id": "1688989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1688989", "title": "Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León", "text": "Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León\n\nThe Autonomous University of Nuevo León () is a public university with seven campuses across the Northern state of Nuevo León, Mexico. Founded as University of Nuevo León on 25 September 1933, it is the third largest public university in Mexico in terms of student population and the most important institution of higher learning in Northeastern Mexico, which offers the highest number of academic programs. It is also the oldest university in the state, it is currently headquartered in San Nicolás de los Garza, a suburb of Monterrey.\n\nThe UANL has seven distinct campuses: the Main Campus, which houses the Administration Building, Colleges of Law, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Public Accounting and Philosophy, amongst others, as well as the Football Stadium, and other sport facilities. Other campuses include the Health Sciences Campus, the Mederos Humanities and Fine Arts campus, the Marin Agronomy Center, the Escobedo Agricultural Sciences Campus, the Linares Earth Sciences, and Forestry campus,as well as the Sabinas Hidalgo facilities, where extensions of the Colleges of Law, and Business are housed.\n\nThe institution counts with 84 Libraries with a total of 2,238,000 Library volumes. It has 27 research facilities with 438 national researchers, 16 academic journals, 9 main campus bookstores, 25 student computer centers and 53 cafeterias.\n\nThe University has been ranked by various organizations as one of the best public universities in Mexico and Latin America, it has been ranked 4th place in a publication of the Best Universities Of Mexico 2014 by the Rankia Organization in Mexico, and is ranked as one of the 10 most recognized universities in Mexico by a number of organizations like QS World University Rankings and the Mexican journal \"El Universal\".\n\nThe immediate forerunner of this public university dates back to 1859, when the Civil Academy (\"Colegio Civil\") started its courses. This institution had been envisioned by Governor Santiago Vidaurri but was erected by his successor, José Silvestre Aramberri, after the former was removed from office. The academy began to sponsor the Pharmacy and Medicine courses José Eleuterio González had been teaching at the local Hospital of the Rosary for several decades. The academic offerings included courses in Law and Medicine, as well as a preparatory school. Its first director was José de Jesús Dávila y Prieto.\n\nOn 29 October 1932, the delegations of the state schools of Law, Medicine and Pharmacy; the Civil Academy and the normal school, submitted a project to the Congress of Nuevo León to organize a state university for the Monterrey Metropolitan area. On 7 November 1932, the state congress ordered to proceed with the request and on 25 September 1933 the University of Nuevo León was born.\n\nIn its first year, 1,864 students were schooled by 218 professors from the faculties of Medicine, Law, Engineering, and Chemistry, the Normal School, a preparatory school, the School of Nurses and Obstetricians and the Álvaro Obregón and Pablo Livas Industrial Schools. The institution became plagued with political disputes and almost two years later, on 25 September 1935, it was closed by state decree, only to reopen almost eight years later, on 13 September 1943.\n\nThe number of faculty and personnel began to grow and this prompted the construction of its own campus in 1958, the University City (\"Ciudad Universitaria\"), an academic complex located in San Nicolás de los Garza, a suburb to the state capital. In 1967, its open-air stadium was finished. From 1968 to 1972, the University was hit once again by student protests and political disputes, and by 1971 the protests had forced the government to stop from interfering in its internal affairs and recognize a statute of autonomy that became part of its current name: Autonomous University of Nuevo León (\"Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León\").\n\nIn the late 1990s the institution saw the necessity to rent its professional football (soccer) team, which has maintained in the Mexican professional league (Tigres de la UANL), and was later affected by a corruption scandal that involved its own rector but ended with no legal consequences for those accused.\n\nThe university has seven campuses across the state:\n\nThe university also runs 36 high schools of which 7 are Technical High Schools, one is a Bilingual International High School, and the rest are 2-year high schools. 25 other schools around the state that are not property of the UANL are incorporated to the university, which means that these schools meet the norms established by the institution (a minimum infrastructure of libraries, laboratories, class rooms, school programs accepted by the UANL, and certified academic staff).\n\nThe current rector is Rogelio Garza Rivera,\nThe university also has a symphony orchestra, a chamber orchestra, and a band of regional music, \"El Tigre\".\n\nThe UANL's teams are called the \"Tigres\". \n\nThe American football team, named the Auténticos Tigres, is very successful in the ONEFA. The program has won five national championships (1974, 1977, 2009, 2011, and 2012), and four times has been runner-up. They play in the Estadio Gaspar Mass.\n\nUANL teams have also won the national universiade in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009\n\nThe UANL installations include the Raymundo \"Chico\" Rivera Stadium (a football and athletic field), the Luis Eugenio Todd Gym, a baseball park, an indoor soccer pitch, and a tennis center with four courts\n\nThe soccer team Tigres de la UANL was managed for the UANL before 1996, when the team's control passed to Cemex. The Estadio Universitario is located in the principal campus of the UANL, and occasionally is host of Auténticos Tigres games, and others activities of the university.\n\nThe University Olympic Aquatic Center Centro Acuático Olímpico Universitario is one of the best aquatic centers of the country. It's also located in the main campus and there are swimming, water polo, diving and synchronized swimming teams.\n\nGovernors\n\nFederal cabinet secretaries\nNotable architects\n\n\n"}
{"id": "352708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352708", "title": "Université Laval", "text": "Université Laval\n\nUniversité Laval () is a French-language, public research university in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. The University was founded by royal charter issued by Queen Victoria in 1852, with roots in the founding of the Séminaire de Québec in 1663 by François de Montmorency-Laval, making it the oldest centre of higher education in Canada and the first North American institution to offer higher education in French. The university, whose campus was erected from the 1950s onward in the suburban borough of Sainte-Foy–Sillery–Cap-Rouge, is ranked among the top ten Canadian universities in terms of research funding and holds four Canada Excellence Research Chairs.\n\nThe university began as the Séminaire de Québec, which was founded in 1663 by François de Montmorency-Laval, a member of the House of Laval and the first Bishop of New France.\n\nDuring the French Regime the institution mainly trained priests to serve in New France. After the Conquest of 1760, the British expanded education in Canada to include the liberal arts. French Canadians had at the time no opportunity to pursue higher education, and Bishop Bourget of Montreal suggested expanding the Séminaire de Québec into Université Laval. Louis Casault, a priest who taught physics at the Séminaire de Québec, went to Europe to seek a royal charter and study the best university systems there.\n\nThe Séminaire de Québec was granted a royal charter on December 8, 1852, by Queen Victoria, at the request of Lord Elgin (Governor-General of the Province of Canada), creating Université Laval with \"the rights and privileges of a university\". The charter was signed in 1852. Pope Benedict XV approved the plan and authorized the institution to establish chairs of theology and confer degrees.\n\nIn 1878, the university opened a second campus in Montreal, which became the Université de Montréal on May 8, 1919, by a writ of Pope Benedict XV. In 1971, a second charter transferred all authority to the Université Laval council.\n\nBy 1925, the university had outgrown its location. The Old City was very crowded, making it difficult to add new buildings to the campus. The university moved to Sainte-Foy in the 1950s, which at the time was a semi-rural community west of the Quebec city centre. The School of Architecture returned to the old building (now affectionately referred to as \"Le Vieux Séminaire\") in 1989.\n\nUniversité Laval is governed by a board of governors and a faculty senate. This structure was modelled on the provincial University of Toronto Act of 1906, which established a bicameral system of university government consisting of a senate (faculty), responsible for academic policy, and a board of governors (citizens) exercising exclusive control over financial policy and having formal authority in all other matters. The president, appointed by the board, was to serve as a link between the two bodies and lead the institution.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, the need for higher education expanded beyond the classical fields of theology, law and medicine, and the university introduced science and social-science departments such as forestry and household science. In addition, graduate training based on the German-inspired American model of specialized course work and the completion of a research thesis was introduced.\n\n\"Laval\", a waltz by French-Canadian ragtime composer, Wilfrid Beaudry, was dedicated to the students at Laval University and the University of Montreal. The music for piano was published in Québec by J. Beaudry, circa 1906.\n\nThe university opened its department of social, political, and economic sciences in 1938, signalling a change of approach that continued into the 1960s, based on an idea of higher education as the key to social justice and economic productivity for individuals and society.\n\nThe royal charter that founded Université Laval in 1852 was designated a National Historic Event in 1972.\n\nAfter it was granted a university charter, several buildings were built in Old Quebec, including the School of Chemistry (1923), the addition on Ste. Famille Street (1931), the Mining School (1938), and the cafeteria building (1945), all by architect Joseph Simeon Bergeron. However, the neighborhood was already crowded and activities later moved in nearby Sainte-Foy, which was more spacious. \n\nToday's campus covers and has over 30 buildings (also called \"pavillons\"), including many iconic exemplars of modern architecture. Its earliest buildings and landscapes were designed by Edouard Fiset () from the 1950s, and of its lands, 56 percent are wooded areas, grasslands, and sports fields .\nPratically all buildings are linked by of underground walkways, which are particularly useful in the winter and whose walls are mostly covered by murals painted by student associations and student visitors over the years, as well as graffiti. The campus is also home to the \"Roger-Van den Hende\" botanical garden () which contains some 67 species of deciduous and coniferous trees and 60 different species of birds. The Louis-Jacques-Casault building also hosts the regional branch of the National Archives of Quebec. The sport building is called PEPS and is said to be the largest sport complex in eastern Canada. It is adjacent to the covered TELUS stadium ().\nApart from the school of architecture, located in Old Quebec since 1988, the only out of campus facilities are the school of visual arts in the downtown neighborhood of Saint-Roch's, and the experimental Montmorency forest () ( north of Quebec City). \nAs of 2002, Université Laval offered over 350 programs to more than 38,000 students. The university also attracts more than 2,500 foreign students annually, and has almost 1,000 students drawn from Canadian provinces outside of Quebec. Many students come to the university for the \"Français pour non-francophones\" program that offers instruction in French as a second language to students from Canada and around the world. It is also the only university in Quebec which trains forestry engineers. Since the mid-1980s, Université Laval has offered distance learning; over 30 programs and 400 courses are offered by distance learning, of which 80% are accessible from the internet.\n\nQuébec university holds four of the 19 Canada Excellence Research Chairs awarded nationwide: Canada Excellence Research Chair in Remote Sensing of Canada's New Arctic Frontier, Canada Research Excellence Chair in the Microbiome-Endocannabinoidome Axis in Metabolic Health, Canada Excellence Research Chair in Photonic Innovations, and Communication and Canada Excellence Research Chair in Neurophotonics.\n\n\"Les Presses de l'Université Laval\", which was founded in 1950, deals with Canadian civilization, literature, medieval studies, law, social sciences, physical sciences and engineering. It publishes some 120 book per year.\n\nThe \"Coopérative de l'Université Laval\" is engaged in the sale of products to customers throughout the university, such as books, lecture notes and computers.\n\n Athletics take place at the PEPS complex. Laval's varsity sports teams are named the Rouge-et-Or (Red & Gold). As of 2017, the men's football team of Laval won nine Vanier Cups since 2003 and has thus the most titles in the country, followed by the Western's Mustangs (6 Vanier cups).\n\nPublic figures, including Prime Ministers of Canada, Premiers of Quebec, Supreme Court Justices, federal Cabinet Ministers, Senators, and Lieutenant-Governors as well as national and international athletes have graduated from l'Université Laval. Some of the more prominent are:\n\n\n"}
