{"id": "59137893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59137893", "title": "Adam Feuerstein", "text": "Adam Feuerstein\n\nAdam Feuerstein is an American journalist and columnist covering the biotechnology sector.\n\nAdam Feuerstein completed a bachelor's degree in political science at Emory University.\n\nFeuerstein covered business, technology, and commercial real estate for the \"San Francisco Business Times\" and the \"Atlanta Business Chronicle\" as an assistant managing editor. He later wrote about business software for Upside.com. In March 2001, he joined TheStreet.com. From 2005 to 2006 he worked as a research analyst for a hedge fund before returning to TheStreet. He resigned in May 2017. Feuerstein accepted a position as a national biotechnology columnist at STAT in June 2017.\n\nFeuerstein is known for his style of reporting and his tweets to his large Twitter following. He often shares \"unabashed\" views on Biotech stock and the Food and Drug Administration.\n\nFeuerstein is sometimes the subject of criticism from different parties in the biotechnology sector.\n"}
{"id": "52674417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52674417", "title": "Albert Yuma Mulimbi", "text": "Albert Yuma Mulimbi\n\nAlbert Yuma Mulimbi (born July 30, 1955) is a Congolese businessman, economist and chairman at the Congolese state-owned mining company Gecamines. An International Labour Organization dignitary, he is the chairman of the Congolese Employers Federation, Democratic Republic of Congo's biggest business lobby group.\n\nYuma was born on July 30, 1955 in Kongolo, inside the Katanga Province. Having spent much of his childhood in Belgium, he later earned a Master of Applied Economics from the Université catholique de Louvain.\n\nYuma joined UTEXAFRICA, a textile and real estate development company now known as TEXAF, in 1983. He serves as its co-managing director and is also a major shareholder, where he derives most of his wealth.\n\nSince late 2010, he has served as the chairman of Congo's parastatal mining enterprise Gécamines. Under his leadership, he attempted to grow the company in spite of its international competitors. For example, he spearheaded a lawsuit in the International Court of Arbitration against Freeport-McMoRan after Freeport sold its 80% stake in the Tenke Fungurume mine to China Molybdenum, as it had failed to warn Gécamines, which owns 20% of the mine. As of September 2016, he planned to cut costs by reducing the workforce.\n\nYuma is the chairman of Texico, the manufacturer of police and army uniforms in the DRC, and deputy chairman of Texafrica, the manufacturer of uniforms for infrastructure workers. Additionally, he is the co-owner of Afritex, a wrapper factory in Kinshasa. In 2015, after he had failed to purchase the Orgaman Group from the Damseaux family because their asking price was too high, Yuma also invested in food production. He also serves on the board of directors of the Central Bank of the Congo.\n\nIn addition, Yuma serves as the chairman of the Congolese Employers Federation (FEC), and as the Vice-President of the International Organisation of Employers. Since 2012, he has also served as the chairman of the Permanent Conference of African and French-Speaking Consular Chambers (CPCCAF), an organization of francophone African chambers of commerce. Additionally, he serves on the board of directors of the Belgian-Congolese-Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce, and the council of the International Labour Organization.\n\nHe is a Commander of the Order of the Crown.\n"}
{"id": "33446774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33446774", "title": "Ali Shamsi Pasha", "text": "Ali Shamsi Pasha\n\nAli Shamsi Pasha (also spelled Shamsy, Shemsi, or Chamsi) was an Egyptian statesman.\n\nHe was born in Egypt in 1885 the scion of senior members of the Tufenkjians, an Ottoman mounted military corps dating back to the 17th century when Egypt was ruled by \"walis\" or governors appointed by the sultan in Istanbul.\n\nAmong Ali's ancestors we find the five Tufenkjian brothers who were exiled to the Hedjaz in 1768 for their attempt at toppling the incumbent governor. Wrapping up four generations of righteous Tufenkjian officers, Ali Shamsi's ancestor, \"Serwan-Pasha\" Mohammed Tufkenjian-Shamsi, was aide-de-camp to Mohammed Ali Pasha. Having recently restored the Timraz al-Ahmadi Mosque in Cairo's Darb al-Shamsi (Sayeda Zeinab district), Mohammed was buried therein circa 1817. The mosque had already been renovated the previous century by Mohammed's uncle \"al-Sharif\" Hassan Tufenkjian-Shamsi, a devout member of the Sufi al-Qadiriyah Order founded by his maternal ancestor Abdel Qader al-Jilani.\n\nIn addition to being a leading industrialist and head of the Ashraaf syndicate in his Delta province, Ali Shamsi's father, Amin Shamsi Pasha, was also Sharkia's \"ser-tujar,\" or merchant provost, as well as its recurring representative to the Egyptian legislature up to 1913 despite his much publicized imprisonment for his decisive support of the failed 1882 Orabi Revolt.\n\nAs Amin pasha exits the scene, Ali Shamsi Pasha takes over his father's seat at the legislature in 1914. His mission was to define the concept of a distinct Egyptian people blended out of an ethnic mix of Copts, Fellahs, Bedouins, Circassians, Turks, Balkans, Levantine, Kurds and Nubians.\n\nHe was subsequently exiled to Europe for his political convictions he returns triumphantly several years later to cofound with Saad Zaghloul Pasha the nationalist Wafd Party. Ali Shamsi MP became in turn minister of finance and later education and was a sometime candidate to the post of prime minister. He was also Egypt's first representative to the League of Nations. He would later head the National Bank of Egypt (functioned as a Central bank at the time) which heretofore was traditionally chaired by a Briton.\n\nHaving spent most of his student and exile years in Switzerland, Ali Shamsi Pasha wed Helene Emile Burnet at Geneva's Eaux Vives neighborhood on 15 August 1928. Absenting himself from the political scene, he joined the board of several leading companies, including the Paris-based Compagnie universelle du canal maritime de Suez up until its nationalization in 1956.\n\nAli Shamsi died in February 1962.\n\nTo be noted three of Ali Shamsi's nephews spent time in jail for their political beliefs. Hussein-Zulfiqar Sabry, a disillusioned welterweight prizefighter and brash World War II military-plane hijacker, strived for Sudan's independence prior to becoming the nation's de facto foreign policy chief. Wing Commander Ali Sabry poised at the epicenter of power, first as prime minister and later as party boss only to be outfoxed by his nemesis Anwar al-Sadat. Wahid Raafat, a civil rights advocate calling for a constitutional democracy and the return of the military to their barracks. Later, he would confound the neo-Wafd and play a crucial role in the landmark Taba arbitration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15818654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15818654", "title": "American Association of Woodturners", "text": "American Association of Woodturners\n\nThe American Association of Woodturners (AAW) is the principal organization in the United States supporting the art and craft of woodturning. It is sometimes stylized as American Association of Wood Turners (AAW). Established in 1986 and headquartered in Saint Paul, Minnesota, the organization encompasses more than 15,000 members in the United States and many foreign nations. As of 2013, the AAW was affiliated with nearly 350 local chapters worldwide. In addition to sponsoring an annual national symposium, the AAW provides support to local clubs for outreach and education. The 25th anniversary of the AAW was celebrated in 2011 at the annual symposium held in Saint Paul. Phil McDonald is executive director of the organization.\n\nThe AAW states: \"\"Our purpose is to foster a wider understanding and appreciation of lathe-turning as a traditional and contemporary craft and a form of art among the general public and amateur, part-time, and professional woodturners. This will be accomplished by providing education, information, organization, technical assistance, and publications related to woodturning\".\" \n\nWoodturning, which has experienced exceptional growth and interest since AAW's founding, is a pursuit that goes back 4,000 years in human history – using craft’s most organic material, wood, as its primary medium. Woodturners create utilitarian, artistic, and sculptural wooden objects on mechanical lathes. The craft differs from most other forms of woodworking in that the wood stock rotates rapidly while sharpened cutting skews, gouges, and other tools are maneuvered by hand to shape the material.\n\nMembership in AAW brings a variety of benefits, including a bimonthly magazine, insurance coverage, scholarships, national symposiums, educational opportunities for newcomers and youth, and a website where turners can display and market their woodturnings.\n\nThe AAW was founded at the Arrowmont School of Arts and Crafts in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, and remains closely affiliated with that institution, as well as with the John C. Campbell Folk School in Brasstown, North Carolina, and the Anderson Ranch in Snowmass Village, Colorado.\n\nThe AAW, a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt organization, is administered by a nine-member Board of Directors, all volunteers who serve three-year terms. Three board members are elected by the full membership each year and begin their terms in January. The Board employs an executive director and an editor, and appoints a Board of Advisors along with various committee members serving specific purposes, such as organizing the national symposium and overseeing AAW financial grants to clubs and individuals.\n\nThe AAW magazine, \"American Woodturner\", is published in print and online editions six times a year. Subscriptions to the journal are included with AAW membership, and individual copies are available on newsstands. Members may view all issues online. The publication contains articles aimed at both novice woodturners as well as intermediate craftspersons and professionals.\n\nThe AAW is affiliated with more than 350 local chapters, or clubs, and three \"virtual\" chapters. Local chapters are primarily in the United States but encompass groups in many other nations, including Canada, England, New Zealand, Taiwan, Australia and Japan. Virtual chapters are not geographically based but are organized around specific woodturning techniques. The three virtual chapters include the Ornamental Turners International, Segmented Woodturners, and Pen Turners www.principallypens.com. Ornamental woodturners specialize in the use of an ornamental lathe such as the Rose engine lathe. Segmented woodturning involves joining individual pieces of wood together prior to turning to create intricate patterns and dramatic visual effects. Pen turners specialize in making pens and other writing instruments out of both wood and synthetic materials.\n\nAnnual symposiums have been sponsored and organized by the AAW each year since 1987, alternating in cities around the United States. The first symposium was held in Lexington, Kentucky in 1987. The symposium will be in Kansas City in 2017 and Portland in 2018. The gathering typically includes live presentations, an auction of selected woodturnings, an instant gallery that showcases current woodturning craft, a rotation of how-to and hands-on demonstrations, the world's largest trade show of commercial woodturning vendors, and a youth training center.\n\nThe AAW operates the AAW Gallery of Wood Art www.galleryofwoodart.org in Saint Paul's historic Landmark Center. The gallery features changing exhibits of art of all kinds made from wood, and there also is a gift shop. Admission is free to the gallery, which is open daily except Monday and Saturday.\nThe AAW works in partnership with Collectors of Wood Art to promote the development and appreciation of studio wood art among collectors, artists, educators, art critics, galleries, museums, and the general public.\n\n"}
{"id": "13930033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13930033", "title": "Anson Dodge", "text": "Anson Dodge\n\nAnson Greene Phelps Dodge (August 25, 1834 – May 28, 1918) was an American-Canadian lumber dealer and political figure. He represented York North in the House of Commons of Canada from 1872 to 1874 as a Conservative member.\n\nHe was born in New York City, the son of William E. Dodge and Melissa Phelps, and educated in England. He married Rebecca Wainwright Grew (1836–1925) in 1859. In 1872, he was naturalized by an act of parliament. Dodge established lumber mills on Georgian Bay.\n\nFollowing a variety of occupations, Anson Dodge began his own lumber career in 1864 at Williamsport, Pennsylvania. First attracted to the forests of Ontario in 1866, with an invitation from Henry W. Sage, possibly at a time when Sage was considering disposing of his Bell Ewart mill. After a tour of the facilities at Bell Ewart, Anson continued his trek northward to Oakley township in Muskoka where Sage had recently acquired timber berths. Anson also purchased timber in the township and a small mill on Lake Simcoe at Atherly, near Orillia. Dodge continued his spending spree, purchasing timber berths and mills with various partners, establishing his Georgian Bay Lumber Company in 1869, with a new mill at Byng Inlet.\n\nAt Parry Sound, he was one of John Classon Miller's partners in the establishment of the Parry Sound Lumber Company in 1872. Dodge's rapid expansion into the Canadian lumber trade left him financially exposed. When the Panic of 1873 hit he was unable to survive and was declared bankrupt. Anson's share of the Parry Sound firm was sold to J C Miller in 1877.\n\nAgreement was reached with several of Dodge's Canadian associates that he should run for election as a member of the Canadian Parliament for the constituency of York North, Ontario. This was the location where he was known and respected by the locals. One of the major obstacles in his way was that he was an American citizen, and had not been resident in Canada long enough to qualify for naturalisation. To overcome this an act of Parliament was required, and this was passed in June 1872 allowing Anson Dodge to naturalise. Having qualified almost at the last minute, Dodge went on to win the seat at the general election, held between July and October 1872. However, a letter from a clergyman in New Jersey, published by Dodge to provide a character reference, proved to be fake and became a source of embarrassment to him after the election. Although he survived this scandal, his time in Parliament was short lived as a new election was held on 22 January 1874 and he did not stand. He returned to the United States to manage family lumber interests in Georgia.\n\nAnson's father, William Earle Dodge Sr. had been involved with the lumber business for nearly forty years. He started to acquire large tracts of timber land in Pennsylvania for Phelps, Dodge, & Co in the 1830s. He was a partner in this with his father-in-law Anson Green Phelps, and brother-in-law Daniel James. Later he began to invest his own money in the procurement of forested land and often entrusted the management to his sons Norman, George, Arthur and Anson. William was a cautious business man (unlike Anson) and he knew the risks involved with the production and sale of lumber. An example of this was where he took the known costs and returns for a particular stand of timber and extrapolated it to a larger scale whilst adding safety margins:\n\nFor fear of errors, deduct one half; to be very careful, deduct one half again ; in these days of speculation we will once more deduct one half; as everything appears to be going to the bottom, we will another time deduct a half; on account of the destruction of the United States Bank we will go another half. Half of this final amount will be the share of Phelps, Dodge, & Co. Now deduct the original cost, and the remainder will be profit.\n\nAfter the American Civil War, William Dodge with partners started to buy thousands of acres of timbered land in Georgia. One estimate put the size of this holding at 300,000 acres. He built infrastructure, including saw mills at St Simon's Island. Anson was put in charge of the business called \"The Georgia Land and Lumber Company\". Legislative changes introduced in 1877, that would have forced the company to incorporate in the state of Georgia, were circumvented by transferring ownership of the business to one of William’s other sons, George Egleston Dodge (1849-1904).\n\nAfter about six years in Georgia Anson moved on; he was said to have set up a logging venture in Minnesota with a former colleague, but records are elusive. He later retired to Danville, Illinois where he was known as General A G P Dodge. He built a mansion but this burnt down soon after completion during a party being given for an estimated 200 guests.\n\nDodge's marriage to Rebecca Drew ended in divorce in about 1883 and he remarried in 1886 to Rose Voorhees (1853-1910). There was one child from each marriage, Anson Jr. and Julia Voorhees Dodge (1892-1931). Dodge died in Illinois in 1918.\n\nIn 1878 Dodge’s eighteen year old son, Anson Jr.(1860-1898), eloped with his sixteen year old cousin, Ellen Ada Doge (daughter of Reverend David Stuart Dodge) The parents gave chase and the incident was reported widely in both the national and international newspapers; eventually they were located in Washington where they were attempting to get a marriage license. They were separated, but permitted to marry two years later in London; sadly Ellen Ada died in 1883 whilst visiting India with her husband. Her body was returned to the United States and buried in the church on St Simon's Island, Georgia. Anson was ordained after studying at the General Theological Seminary, New York, and returned to St Simon's Island where he became the rector at this same church.\n"}
{"id": "16945262", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16945262", "title": "Anti-sweatshop movement", "text": "Anti-sweatshop movement\n\nAnti-sweatshop movement refers to campaigns to improve the conditions of workers in sweatshops, i.e. manufacturing places characterized by low wages, poor working conditions and often child labor. It started in the 19th century in industrialized countries such as the United States, Australia, New Zealand and the United Kingdom to improve the conditions of workers in those countries.\n\nSome of the earliest sweatshop critics were found in the 19th-century abolitionist movement that had originally coalesced in opposition to chattel slavery, and many abolitionists saw similarities between slavery and sweatshop work. As slavery was successively outlawed in industrial countries between 1794 (in France) and 1865 (in the United States), some abolitionists sought to broaden the anti-slavery consensus to include other forms of harsh labor, including sweatshops. As it happened, the first significant law to address sweatshops (the Factory Act of 1833) was passed in the United Kingdom at the same time that the slave trade (1807) and ownership of slaves (1833) were made illegal.\n\nUltimately, the abolitionist movement split apart. Some advocates focused on working conditions and found common cause with trade unions and Marxists and socialist political groups, or progressive movement and the muckrakers. Others focused on the continued slave trade and involuntary servitude in the colonial world. For those groups that remained focused on slavery, sweatshops became one of the primary objects of controversy. Workplaces across multiple sectors of the economy were categorized as sweatshops. However, there were fundamental philosophical disagreements about what constituted slavery. Unable to agree on the status of sweatshops, the abolitionists working with the League of Nations and the United Nations ultimately backed away from efforts to define slavery, and focused instead on a common precursor of slavery – human trafficking.\n\nThose focused on working conditions included Friedrich Engels, whose book \"The Condition of the Working Class in England in 1844\" would inspire the Marxist movement named for his collaborator, Karl Marx. In the United Kingdom the Factory Act was revised six further times between 1844 and 1878 to help improve the condition of workers by limiting work hours and the use of child labor. The formation of the International Labour Organization in 1919 under the League of Nations and then the United Nations sought to address the plight of workers the world over. Concern over working conditions as described by muckraker journalists during the Progressive Era in the United States saw the passage of new workers rights laws and ultimately resulted in the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, passed during the New Deal.\n\nIn the late 20th century, with the advent of globalization, movements were formed to protest the exploitation of workers in poorer countries by companies based in wealthy countries. Noam Chomsky said in \"The Nation\" that the anti-sweatshop movement is in some ways, he said, \"like the Anti-Apartheid Movement, except that in this case it's striking at the core of the relations of exploitation. It's another example of how different constituencies are working together.\" On February 4, 1997 Mayor Ed Boyle of North Olmsted, Ohio introduced the first piece of legislation actually prohibiting the government of purchasing, renting, or taking on consignment any and all goods made under sweatshop conditions and including in the definition those goods made by political prisoners. This legislation was copied by other American cities such as Detroit, New York, and San Francisco. Later Mayor Boyle introduced the legislation to the Mayors and Managers Association where it was immediately passed and he was invited by President Clinton to address a panel studying the subject in Washington, DC.\n\nWith the rise of globalization and transnational corporations (TNCs) such as Nike or Gap, many sweatshop laborers have lost autonomy and corporations have gained in their invincibility to anti-sweatshop laws within a particular country, as it is incredibly easy for them to simply move to another country if the laws become too restricting. As corporations globalize, many sweatshop movements have begun to see \"worker internationalization\" as one of the only viable solution; however, this requires strong labor movements, sufficient resources, and a commitment to mobilizing all workers, including women, which can be difficult to do at an international scale, as has been the case in the Americas.\n\nThe criticisms of sweatshops, and thus the reason for an anti-sweatshop movement, deal largely with the lack of safety regulations in sweatshops and their exploitive nature. Matt Zwolinski argues that though technically sweatshop laborers \"choose\" to work in sweatshops, this decision is not \"fully voluntary\" and that though sweatshops may provide opportunities that would not otherwise exist, when a worker \"consents\" to work in a sweatshop, they are also consenting to labor practices that overall cause more harm than good to the laborer. Yet another criticism of sweatshops is the prevalence of child labor working heavy machinery for very low wages, often requiring that they be taken out of school, and thus disrupt their education, and exposing them to very dangerous working conditions that can endanger their health.\n\nA study published in 2011 found that while in most cases anti-sweatshop movements did not affect sales for companies using sweatshops, they did correspond with a decrease in the sales of well-known, more specialized brands and more intense movements caused more significant reduction in the sales. The same study also found that anti-sweatshop events also seemed to correspond with lower stock prices for the companies that were the target of these events, though some major anti-sweatshop events such the \"Kaksy\" lawsuit against Nike, did not result in any discernible change in stock price of the targeted company. The study found that 64.1% of the companies targeted by anti-sweatshop movements saw drops in stock price in the five days following the anti-sweatshop event, and 56.4% saw drops in the two days following the event. Though the study did find these slight negative economic effects, it did not find that, when taking into account companies of all reputations, anti-sweatshop movements or events damaged the reputation of the companies they targeted to a statistically significant degree; however, there does seem to be a slight undercutting of the reputations of companies with positive reputations when they are faced with anti-sweatshop campaigns, particularly intense ones.\n\nSome people such as Pulitzer Prize winning journalist Nicholas Kristoff argue that the anti-sweatshop movement \"risks harming the very people it is aiming to help\" because sweatshops signify the start of an industrial revolution in Asia and offer people a path towards making money and escaping poverty that would otherwise not be available to them. The anti-sweatshop movement, in this view, can harm the impoverished workers by increasing labor costs for factories which, in turn, can incentivize turning to technology instead of people for labor and thus reduce the number of employees needed. Additionally, if anti-sweatshop movements succeed and manage to get stricter guidelines passed, companies may move to countries with less strict laws governing sweatshops, thus removing a source of jobs and money for impoverished countries.\n\nEven if a company does not move to another country to find somewhere with more relaxed labor laws, economic demand theory says that the more a good costs, the less the demand for it is. Because of this, it is possible to argue, as some economists have, that even though the labor is \"exploitative,\" it should be permitted, as trying to put regulations on sweatshop labor would only result in sweatshops needing fewer workers, thus reducing opportunities for individuals to make a living.\n\nMost economists say that sweatshops can be a benefit to Third World workers and the anti-sweatshop movement could reduce Third World employment and investment. The economic ways to think about this issue, employers and employees can both get benefits when they voluntarily sign the contract, no matter how low the wages are from the external’s point of view. An economist pointed out “as simple as this: ‘Either you believe labor demand curves are downward sloping, or you don’t,’ as a neoclassical colleague said to me. Of course, not to believe that demand curves are negatively sloped would be tantamount to declaring yourself an economic illiterate”\n\n\"Sweatshop Deadly Fashion\" is a Norwegian reality TV show about three fashion bloggers investigating the sweatshop issue in the fashion industry. The three glamorous fashion bloggers, Frida, Ludvig and Anniken, gave up their glam-life in Norway and went to Phnom Penh, Cambodia for a month to see the reality of the conditions of people who make their clothes. The journey begins to question the poor standards of the working conditions that keep up with the massive manufacturing of clothing for people stay trendy. \"Sweatshop Deadly Fashion\" was released in ten minute episodes online on 19 January 2015. The show raises an awareness on the current issue of sweatshops in the clothing industry through advocacy from famous people in the fashion industry such as fashion bloggers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49681613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49681613", "title": "Azmi Mikati", "text": "Azmi Mikati\n\nAzmi T. Mikati (born 21 September 1972 in Tripoli) is a Lebanese businessman. He founded his first company, T-One, whilst studying engineering at Columbia University. In 1998, Mikati became CEO of Investcom. Investcom was floated for $778 million on both the London and Dubai Stock Exchanges. In 2005, Azmi Mikati became the youngest CEO of a publicly traded Middle Eastern company.\n\nAzmi T. Mikati founded T-One, a US based telecommunications company specialising in international services in 1994, whilst studying engineering at Columbia University. T-One was sold to a publicly traded US company in 1997. In 1998, he was appointed CEO of emerging market mobile phone company, Investcom.\n\nInvestcom, founded in 1982, was a Middle Eastern mobile telecommunications network provider. Under Mikati's leadership, the company's sales grew from $30 million to close to $1 billion. In 2005, Investcom was added to the Dubai International Financial Exchange and the London Stock Exchange (LSE) in what was known to be the largest listing of a Middle Eastern company on the LSE, making Mikati the youngest CEO of a publicly traded Middle Eastern company at the time.\nThe following year, Investcom was bought by the leading African mobile operator MTN for $5.5 billion. Mikati was appointed Non-Executive Director of the MTN Group in July 2006.\n\nAzmi T. Mikati is CEO of the M1 Group, a family investment holding company that was founded by former Lebanese Prime Minister Najib Mikati and his brother Taha. In addition to holding a 10% stake in the South Africa based telecommunications company MTN, M1 Group is invested in various sectors and geographies such as real estate, aviation, cement, fashion, retail, energy and banking.\n\nAzmi T. Mikati studied at Columbia University, New York, graduating in 1994 with a Bachelor of Sciences from the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science.\n"}
{"id": "7359066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7359066", "title": "BPO security", "text": "BPO security\n\nInformation security has emerged as a significant concern for banks, mobile phone companies and other businesses that use call centers or business process outsourcing, or BPO. There have been instances of theft of personal data reported from call centers.\n\nBritain's Financial Services Authority examined standards in India in April 2005 and the Banking Code Standards Board audited eight India-based call centres in 2006, handling more than a million calls per month from the UK. the examinations did not extend to Africa-based call centres staffed by workers of Indian origin.\n\nThe BCSB report stated that \"Customer data is subject to the same level of security as in the UK. High risk and more complex processes are subject to higher levels of scrutiny than similar activities onshore.\" \n\nIndia's NASSCOM has said that they take breach in security extremely seriously and will assist the police in their probe.\n\nThere are three identifiable types of illicit activities concerning fraud emanating from call centers:\nWhile items 1 and 2 are mostly subject to police action, call centres can use internal procedures to minimise risk. Such mitigation measures include but are not limited to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15204718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15204718", "title": "Baldomero Falcones", "text": "Baldomero Falcones\n\nBaldomero Falcones (born 1946 at Majorca, Spain), is the current Chairman and CEO of Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas (FCC), a European service and construction group. FCC is included in the IBEX-35 index, which comprises the 35 most important companies on the Spanish Stock Market.\n\nFalcones has been Chairman of MasterCard International (New York). He has led the merger between MasterCard and Europay and the transformation of MasterCard to become public at the NYSE in March 2006. He has been Managing Director of Banco Santander Central Hispano and member of the Management Executive Committee from 1987 to 2002 with different responsibilities first as head of the International Division, later as Vice Chairman and CEO of Santander Consumer Finance (former Hispamer) and finally as global COO the group.\n\nIn his extensive career, Falcones has been Chairman of Banco Urquijo Limited (UK), Hispano Americano Sociedade do Investimento (Portugal), Banco Hispano Americano Benelux, Banco Urquijo Chile, Fiat Finance S.A., Santander Seguros S.A. and CEO of Banco Hispano Industrial Investment Bank. After his banking career, he has founded with other partners Magnum Industrial Partners, the largest private equity firm in Spain and Portugal. In addition he has been member of the board of Unión Fenosa, CESCE, Generalli Spain, Seguros La Estrella, Europay International, BANIF as well as head of RWE Spain.\n\nFalcones earned a Superior Degree in Engineering from Universidad Politécnica de Madrid in 1970 and an MBA from IESE Business School in 1972. He continues connected with IESE as member of the Alumni Advisory Board.\n\nFalcones is married and has five children, Baldomero, Jaime, Sofia, Alvaro and Paloma.\nCurrently he is Chairman of Plan Spain. Plan International is one of the oldest and largest international development agencies in the world. Nowadays with an annual budget of 600 million dollars, Plan supports more than nine million people, mostly children, in development countries.\n\nAlso he is member of the Economic Board of the Fundación Albeniz – Reina Sofia School of Music and former Vice Chairman of the Spanish Association Against Cancer (AECC).\n"}
{"id": "598704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=598704", "title": "Becton Dickinson", "text": "Becton Dickinson\n\nBecton, Dickinson and Company (BD) is an American medical technology company that manufactures and sells medical devices, instrument systems, and reagents. Founded in 1897 and headquartered in Franklin Lakes, New Jersey, BD employs nearly 50,000 people in more than 50 countries throughout the world. In fiscal year ending September 30, 2009, 60% of BD sales were generated from non-U.S. markets.\n\nThe company's customers include health care institutions, science researchers, clinical laboratories, the pharmaceutical industry, and the general public. BD was one of the first companies to sell U.S.-made glass syringes. It was also a pioneer in the production of hypodermic needles. Today, BD is divided into two segments: BD Medical and BD Life Sciences. BD is ranked #251 in the 2018 Fortune 500 list.\n\nThe firm in October 2014 agreed to acquire CareFusion for a price of $12.2 billion in cash and stock. In April 2017 Becton Dickinson agreed to acquire C. R. Bard for $24 billion.\n\nBD was founded in 1897 by Maxwell W. Becton and Fairleigh S. Dickinson, two American businessmen who met on a sales trip. The same year the company made its first sale, a Luer-all-glass syringe that sold for $2.50. In 1898, BD acquired its first patent for a medical product. In 1899 the company introduced its first logo which was meant to symbolize guaranteed superior quality of the products provided by BD. In 1904, BD acquired the Philadelphia Surgical Company. This very first acquisition and other early acquisitions significantly expanded the company's manufacturing ability and product offering. Two years later, BD incorporated in the state of New Jersey and built a manufacturing facility in East Rutherford, the first in the U.S. created specifically for the production of thermometers, hypodermic needles, and syringes. In 1924, BD manufactured its first syringe designed specifically for insulin injection. One year later, BD introduced the BD Yale Luer-Lok Syringe, designed and patented by Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Sr. It provided a simple and secure method of attaching and removing the needle to and from the syringe. Today, Luer taper connectors are the standard for syringes in the U.S. In 1947 Joseph Kleiner developed the Evacutainer—a device used to draw blood by vacuum through a needle into a test tube. This product eventually evolved to become the BD Vacutainer Blood Collection system.\n\nIn 1948, BD faced new leadership as Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Jr. and Henry P. Becton, sons of the founders, took over the company. Their 24-year tenure was a time of rapid development for BD. The company grew within the U.S. as well as internationally. In 1949, it opened its first manufacturing site outside of New Jersey in Columbus, Nebraska. In 1961, it established a manufacturing facility in Canaan, Connecticut. BD also soon expanded to Canada (1951), Mexico (1952), France (1955), and Brazil (1956). The tenure of Fairleigh S. Dickinson, Jr. and Henry P. Becton was also a time of significant product innovation. In 1950, BD's first sterile disposable product, a blood collection set, was developed and sold to the American Red Cross. In 1954, BD introduced the first completely disposable syringe made of glass: BD Hypak. This innovative product was used in a large-scale field test of the polio vaccine developed by Dr. Jonas Salk. One year later, BD entered the microbiology field through the acquisition of the Baltimore Biological Laboratory. In 1961, the company introduced its disposable BD Plastipak syringe. Under the new leadership the company also went public (1962) and appeared for the first time in the Fortune 500 list (1970).\n\nIn 1973, BD added another U.S. facility — a research center in Durham, North Carolina in Research Triangle Park. The center was established to help the company meet United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) requirements, research improved manufacturing and process methods, and develop future innovative technologies. In 1975, BD Pharmaceutical Systems Europe acquired an important patent for a prefilled syringe injecting heparin. In 1980, BD developed its first automated system for mycobacteria testing—the BD BACTEC 460TB System. The next year brought significant signs of the company's development as sales surpassed the $1 billion milestone and a new plant in Plymouth, England was constructed to serve the European markets. Five years later BD moved its corporate headquarters to Franklin Lakes, New Jersey (current HQ location.) Also in 1986, BD acquired Fabersanitas Industrial, a major Spanish syringe manufacturer as well as Deseret Medical, a vascular access devices manufacturer. The last three years of the 1980s also showed growth in Asia (manufacturing facilities in Singapore and Japan.) Furthermore, BD became the first company to introduce a safety-engineered syringe, the BD Safety-Lok (1988), and acquired the Beaver Blade Company, a manufacturer of high-quality surgical blades. The first half of the next decade was very important to BD's development. The company opened a central distribution center in Temse, Belgium (1992) and entered India and China (1995). BD also introduced a device that offered needle stick protection following blood-drawing procedures, the BD Vacutainer Safety-Lok Blood Collection Set.\n\nIn 1999, as BD passed more than 100 years of presence in the medical devices industry, BD announced its new corporate identity. Numerous independent brand names were replaced by a single name: BD. In addition, the company symbol that is used today was introduced. BD also named Edward J. Ludwig as the company's president. Ludwig was also named Chief Executive Officer (2000) and Chairman of the Board of Directors (2002). On February 9, 1999, BD announced the acquisition of Biometric Imaging, Inc. (BMI), a privately held company serving the transfusion medicine, infectious diseases, and oncology markets. On December 20, 2000, BD signed an agreement to acquire Gentest Corporation, a privately held company serving the life sciences market in the areas of drug metabolism and toxicology testing of pharmaceutical candidates. During that time, BD also got heavily involved in global health issues announcing a five-year maternal and neonatal tetanus worldwide elimination partnership with UNICEF (1999), launching the BD Safety Compliance Initiative (2000), and pledging $1 million contribution to the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (2002.) In 2003 and 2004, BD introduced several innovative products: BD FACSAria Cell Sorter—the first entirely new instrument in the next-generation portfolio of flow cytometers (2003), BD Accuspray—a nasal drug delivery system for administering vaccines (2003), BD.id—a patient identification system designed to limit the potential for medical errors in specimen collection (2003), and the world's first \"intelligent\" insulin pump and glucose monitoring system, a wireless system consisting of a Medtronic MiniMed Paradigm 512 Insulin Pump and Paradigm Link Blood Glucose Monitor, co-developed with BD. In the beginning of the 21st century BD also invested in growing its business by acquiring several strategically important companies. In 2001, it acquired the Gentest Corporation, a leading in drug metabolism and toxicology testing company. In 2004, BD completed the acquisition of Atto Bioscience Acquired, a company specializing in optical instrumentation, software, and reagents for real-time analysis of interactions taking place in living cells. In 2005 BD entered the field of proteomics through its acquisition of FFE Weber GmbH, which specialized in the separation and fractionation of complex proteins. 2006 was also an important year to document BD's growth as the company acquired GeneOhm Sciences—a leader in the development of molecular diagnostic testing for the rapid detection of bacterial organisms and TriPath Imaging, a cancer diagnostics company.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, Becton Dickinson reported earnings of US$1.030 billion, with an annual revenue of US$12.093 billion, an increase of 10.5% over the previous fiscal cycle. Becton Dickinson's shares traded at over $192 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$63 billion in November 2018.\nBecton Dickinson is divided into two business segments, namely BD Medical (52% of FY 09 revenues) and BD Life Sciences (44% of FY 09 revenues)\n\nThe BD Medical segment consists of three divisions or units, namely Medical & Procedural Solutions, Pharmaceutical Systems, and Diabetes Care. The products of this segment include: needles and syringes, intravenous catheters, safety-engineered and auto-disable devices, prefillable drug delivery systems, prefilled IV flush syringes, insulin syringes and pen needles, regional anesthesia needles, and trays. This segment primarily sells to: hospitals and clinics, physicians' office practices, consumers and retail pharmacies, governmental and nonprofit public health agencies, pharmaceutical companies, and health care workers.\n\nBD Life Sciences consist of three divisions or units, namely Preanalytical Systems, Diagnostic Systems, and Biosciences. BD Life Sciences specializes in the design, production, and sales of the following products: integrated systems for specimen collection, safety-engineered blood collection products and systems, automated blood culturing systems, molecular testing systems for sexually transmitted diseases and HAIs, microorganism identification and drug susceptibility systems, liquid-based cytology systems for cervical cancer screening, rapid diagnostic assays, and plated media. Customers of this division include: hospitals, laboratories and clinics, reference laboratories, blood banks, health care workers, public health agencies, physicians' office practices, and industrial and food microbiology laboratories.\n\nBD Biosciences designs, manufactures, and sells fluorescence-activated cell sorters and analyzers, monoclonal antibodies, and kits for cell analysis, reagent systems for life science research, cell imaging systems, laboratory products for tissue culture and fluid handling, and cell culture media supplements for biopharmaceutical manufacturing. BD Biosciences serves the following customers: research and clinical laboratories, academic and government institutions, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, hospitals, and blood banks. The company's line of plastic conical screwtop test tubes, known as 'Falcon tubes', is popular and the term is sometimes used as a generic term for such tubes.\n\nAs a large global company in the health care industry, BD has the potential to affect the health and life of many people around the world.\n\nBD has actively donated cash, product, and expertise to non-profit and educational organizations worldwide. In recent years, it formed philanthropic and charitable partnerships with the following organizations: UNICEF, American Red Cross, U.S. President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, Stop TB Partnership, Global Business Coalition on Health (GBCHealth), AmeriCares, International AIDS Vaccine Initiative, Foundation for Innovative New Diagnostics, Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation, Project HOPE, Direct Relief International, Accordia Global Health Foundation, Columbia University, and University of Virginia. BD has also donated millions to Fairleigh Dickinson University (of which BD co-founder Dickinson was a benefactor and namesake), in support of the Henry P. Becton School of Nursing and Allied Health (named for the son of BD's co-founder, also a BD executive), along with other FDU programs.\n\nAs of February 2010, BD was ranked 18th in the EPA Fortune 500 List of Green Power Purchasers. BD was also listed among the top 100 companies in Newsweek's 2009 Green Rankings ranking of the 500 largest American corporations based on environmental performance, policies, and reputation. BD placed third in the health care sector and 83rd overall. In addition, BD has been a component of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the four and five consecutive years, respectively.\n\nIn mid-2007, the firm's Discardit II series of syringes numbered 0607186 was withdrawn from hospitals and other medical services around Poland, about half a year after the discovery of remains of dark dust in some syringes, which were alleged to have been from this series. The newspaper Dziennik Online claimed that other series such as 06022444, 0603266, and 0607297 were also suspected of being contaminated. BD recalled and tested the syringes in question, and revealed sterile particulates in 0.013 percent of the products. Legal proceedings related to the incident started in December 2006. According to an article published in Dziennik on Monday, 21 April 2008, the prosecutor's office in Lublin discontinued the inquiry, because the disposable syringes were not dangerous.\n\nIn February 2010 BD announced a voluntary product recall of certain lots of BD Q-Syte Luer Access Devices and BD Nexiva Closed IV Catheter Systems. BD stated that the use of the affected devices may cause an air embolism or leakage of blood and/or therapy, which may result in serious injury or death. The approximately 2.8 million BD Q-Syte and 2.9 million BD Nexiva units containing 5 million BD Q-Syte devices that were recalled were distributed in the United States, Asia, Canada, Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, South Africa, and South America. The recall was initiated on Oct. 28, 2009 after BD received complaints of problems due to air entry through a part of the device. BD stated that the cause of the problem was manufacturing deviation and claimed that it corrected the problem. BD announced that it notified customers about the recall by letter and has been working with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and worldwide health agencies to coordinate recall activities.\n\nIn April 2016, the Occupational Safety and Health and Administration fined BD $112,700 for safety violations. They found repeat and serious violations of health and safety law that had resulted in two employees having partial finger amputations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20544180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20544180", "title": "Bernhard Eisenstuck", "text": "Bernhard Eisenstuck\n\nBernhard Eisenstuck (20 September 1805, Annaberg-Buchholz, Electorate of Saxony – 5 April 1871), factory co-owner and president of the Chenmitz town council, was a prominent agitator for a trade policy, when only in the sense of a protective tariff. In 1848, he was a member of the Frankfurt preliminary parliament (\"Vorparlament\") and then elected from Chemnitz to the succeeding Frankfurt parliament where he sat on the left. In May he was sent as an imperial commissioner to the insurgent Palatinate, but recalled for overstepping his authority. He was vice president of the leftovers of the Frankfurt parliament (\"Rumpfparlament\") when it emigrated to Stuttgart. Before its forced dispersal, he resigned and went to Belgium. After a long absence, he returned home and was a representative in Saxony's parliament where his name and decisive stance lent prestige to the thinly populated liberal ranks. He died as director of a thread-spinning factory.\n\n"}
{"id": "446242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446242", "title": "Bowling Green (New York City)", "text": "Bowling Green (New York City)\n\nBowling Green is a small public park in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, New York City, at the southern end of Broadway, next to the site of the original Dutch fort of New Amsterdam. Built in 1733, originally including an actual bowling green (a venue for lawn bowling), it is the oldest public park in New York City and is surrounded by its original 18th-century fence. The iconic \"Charging Bull\" sculpture is exhibited on its northern end.\n\nBowling Green Fence and Park is listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places. It is abutted by Battery Park to the west.\n\nThe park has long been a center of activity in the city going back to the days of New Amsterdam, when it served as a cattle market between 1638 and 1647, and parade ground. In 1675, the Common Council designated the \"plaine afore the forte\" for an annual market of \"graine, cattle and other produce of the country\". In 1677 the city's first public well was dug in front of Fort Amsterdam at Bowling Green. In 1733, the Common Council leased a portion of the parade grounds to three prominent neighboring landlords for a peppercorn a year, upon their promise to create a park that would be \"the delight of the Inhabitants of the City\" and add to its \"Beauty and Ornament\"; the improvements were to include a \"bowling green\" with \"walks therein\". The surrounding streets were not paved with cobblestones until 1744.\n\nOn August 21, 1770, the British government erected a 4,000 pound (1,800 kg) gilded lead equestrian statue of King George III in Bowling Green; the King was dressed in Roman garb in the style of the Equestrian Statue of Marcus Aurelius. The statue had been commissioned in 1766, along with a statue of William Pitt, from the prominent London sculptor Joseph Wilton, as a celebration of victory after the Seven Years' War. With the rapid deterioration of relations with the mother country after 1770, the statue became a magnet for the Bowling Green protests; in 1773, the city passed an anti-graffiti and anti-desecration law to counter vandalism against the monument, and a protective cast-iron fence, which still stands as the oldest fence in New York, was built along the perimeter of the park.\n\nOn July 9, 1776, after the Declaration of Independence was read to Washington's troops at the current site of City Hall, local Sons of Liberty rushed down Broadway to Bowling Green and instructed their African slaves to topple the statue of King George III. The fence post finials of cast-iron crowns on the protective fence were sawn off, with the saw marks still visible today. The event is one of the most enduring images in the city's history. According to folklore, the statue was chopped up and shipped to a Connecticut foundry under the direction of Oliver Wolcott to be made into 42,088 patriot bullets at 20 bullets per pound (2,104.4 pounds). The statue's head was to have been paraded about town on pike-staffs, but was recovered by Loyalists and sent to England. Eight pieces of the lead statue are preserved in the New-York Historical Society; one in the Museum of the City of New York as well as one in Connecticut (estimated total of 260/270 pounds); The event has been depicted over the years in several works of art, including an 1854 painting by William Walcutt, and an 1859 painting by Johannes Adam Simon Oertel.\n\nThe marble slab of the statue's pedestal was first used for a tombstone of a Major John Smith of the Black Watch who died in 1783; when Smith's grave site was leveled in 1804, the slab became a stone step at two successive mansions; in 1880 the inscription was rediscovered and the slab was transferred to the New-York Historical Society. The monument base can be seen in the background of the portrait of George Washington painted by John Trumbull in 1790, conserved in the City Hall. The William Pitt statue is in the New-York Historical Society.\n\nFollowing the Revolution, the remains of the fort facing Bowling Green were demolished in 1790 and part of the rubble used to extend Battery Park to the west. In its place a grand Government House was built, suitable, it was hoped, for a President's House, with a four-columned portico facing across Bowling Green and up Broadway. Governor John Jay later inhabited it. When the state capital was moved to Albany, the building served as a boarding house and then the custom house before being demolished in 1815. Elegant townhouses were built around the park, which remained largely the private domain of the residents, though now some of the Tory patricians of New York were replaced by Republican ones; leading New York merchants, led by Abraham Kennedy, in a mansion at 1 Broadway that had a 56-foot facade under a central pediment and a front towards the Battery Parade, as the new piece of open ground was called. The Hon. John Watts, whose summer place was Rose Hill; Chancellor Robert Livingston at no. 5, Stephen Whitney at no. 7, and John Stevens all constructed brick residences in Federal style facing Bowling Green.\n\nThe Alexander Macomb House, the second Presidential Mansion, stood north of the park at 39-41 Broadway. President George Washington occupied it from February 23 to August 30, 1790, before the U.S. capital moved to Philadelphia. By 1850, however, with the opening of Lafayette Street, then of Washington Square Park and Fifth Avenue, the general northward migration of residences in Manhattan led to the conversion of the residences into the shipping offices, resulting in full public access to the park.\n\nThe park suffered neglect after World War II, but was restored by the city in the 1970s and is now one of the most heavily used plazas in the city. The Bowling Green Fence and Park were listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 1980.\n\nIn 1982, the Irish Institute of New York installed a plaque in Bowling Green park commemorating an important religious liberty challenge which occurred in Manhattan. Reverend Francis Makemie, the founder of American Presbyterianism, challenged the edict of Lord Cornbury by preaching at the home of William Jackson near by the Park. He was arrested and charged with preaching a \"pernicious doctrine\", but later acquitted.\n\nIn 1989, the sculpture \"Charging Bull\" by Arturo Di Modica was installed at the northern tip of the park by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation after it had been confiscated by the police following its illegal installation on Wall Street. The sculpture has become one of the beloved and recognizable landmarks of the Financial District.\n\nThe pool and fountain in the park were temporarily modified when the park was used as a filming location for \"The Sorcerer's Apprentice\" in early June 2009. Between shoots, equipment was stored in the park and on nearby streets.\n\nIn March 2017, Bowling Green was co-named Evacuation Day Plaza, which was marked by the erection of an illuminated street sign, commemorating the location of a pivotal event in the American Revolutionary War that ended a brutal 7-year occupation by British troops. On November 25, 1783, after a U.S. soldier managed to rip down the British flag at Bowling Green and replace it with the Stars and Stripes — an apparently tough feat since the British had previously greased the flag pole. As the British boarded ships back to England, then-General George Washington triumphantly led the Continental Army through Manhattan down to Bowling Green and witness the last British troops sailing away from Lower Manhattan.\n\nThe park is a teardrop-shaped plaza formed by the branching of Broadway as it nears Whitehall Street. The park is a fenced-in grassy area with benches that are popular lunchtime destinations for workers in the nearby Financial District. There is a fountain in the center.\n\nThe south end of the plaza is bounded by the front entrance of Alexander Hamilton U.S. Custom House, which houses the George Gustav Heye Center for the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of the American Indian and the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan Division). Previously there was a public street along the south edge of the park, also called \"Bowling Green\", but since this area was needed for a modern entrance to the park's eponymous subway station, the road was eliminated and paved over with cobblestones. The New York City Subway station on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line, opened in 1905 and serving the , is located under the plaza. Entrances dating from both 1905 and more recent renovations are located in and near the plaza.\n\nThe urbanistic value of the space is created by the skyscrapers and other structures that surround it (listed clockwise):\n\n\n\"Charging Bull\", a bronze sculpture in Bowling Green, designed by Arturo Di Modica and installed in 1989, stands tall and measures long. The oversize sculpture depicts a bull, the symbol of aggressive financial optimism and prosperity, leaning back on its haunches and with its head lowered as if ready to charge. The sculpture is a popular tourist destination drawing thousands of people a day, as well as \"one of the most iconic images of New York\" and a \"Wall Street icon\" symbolizing \"Wall Street\" and the Financial District.\n\nIn 2017, another bronze sculpture, \"Fearless Girl\", was installed across from the bull. Designed by sculptor Kristen Visbal, the work was hailed for its feminist message. The 'Fearless Girl' statue, which was commissioned by State Street Global Advisors as a way to call attention to the gender pay gap and a lack of women on corporate financial sector boards, was installed on March 7, 2017. The statue depicts a defiant little girl posing as an affront to and staring down \"Charging Bull\". The statue was initially scheduled to be removed April 2, 2017, but was later extended to remain in place through February 2018. The statue would be moved to a location facing the New York Stock Exchange before the end of 2018.\n\nOn May 29, 2017, artist Alex Gardega added a statue of a small dog, titled \"Pissing Pug\" (alternatively \"Peeing Pug\" or \"Sketchy Dog\"), but he removed it after approximately three hours. He described the \"Fearless Girl\" statue as \"corporate nonsense\" and \"disrespect to the artist that made the bull.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1631564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1631564", "title": "Business rules approach", "text": "Business rules approach\n\nBusiness rules are abstractions of the policies and practices of a business organization. In computer software development, the business rules approach is a development methodology where rules are in a form that is used by, but does not have to be embedded in, business process management systems.\n\nThe business rules approach formalizes an enterprise's critical business rules in a language that managers and technologists understand. Business rules create an unambiguous statement of what a business does with information to decide a proposition. The formal specification becomes information for process and rules engines to run.\n\nThe adoption of business rules adds another tier to systems that automate business processes. Compared to traditional systems, this approach has the following major advantages,\n\nBusiness rules represent a natural step in the application of computer technology aimed at enhancing productivity in the workplace. Automated business processes that have business logic embedded inside often take substantial time to change, and such changes can be prone to errors. And in a world where the life cycle of business models has greatly shortened, it has become increasingly critical to be able to adapt to changes in external environments promptly. These needs are addressed by a business rules approach.\n\nBusiness rules enhance business agility. And the manageability of business processes also increases as rules become more accessible.\n\nThe programs designed specifically to run business rules are called rule engines. More complete systems that support the writing, deployment and management of business rules are called business rules management systems (BRMSs).\n\nMany commercial rule engines provide the Rete algorithm, a proprietary algorithm that embodies many of the principles of Rete. However, there are other execution algorithms such as the sequential algorithm (ILOG and Blaze Advisor terminology), algorithms for evaluating decision tables/trees, and algorithms tuned for hierarchical XML. The Rete algorithm is a stateful pattern matching algorithm designed to minimize the evaluation of repetitive tests across many objects/attributes and many rules. Different fields of usage are best for Rete-based and non-Rete-based execution algorithms. For simple stateless applications with minimal sharing of conditions across rules, a non-Rete-based execution algorithm (such as the sequential algorithm) may be preferable. For evaluating decision tables and trees, an algorithm that exploits the hierarchical relationships between the rule conditions may perform better than a simple Rete or sequential algorithm tuned for discrete rules.\n\nBusiness rules can be expressed in conventional programming languages or natural languages. In some commercial BRMSs rules can also be expressed in user-friendly rule forms such as decision tables and decision trees. Provided with a suitable interface to design or edit decision tables or trees, it is possible for business users to check or change rules directly, with minimal IT involvement.\n\nWhen rules are expressed in natural language, it is necessary to first define a vocabulary that contains words and expressions corresponding to business objects and conditions and the operations involving them. To make the rules executable by a rule engine, it is also necessary to implement the operations and conditions in a programming language. With a defined and implemented vocabulary, it is relatively easy to write rules in a BRMS. Changes can also be made quickly as long as they can be expressed in the existing vocabulary. If not, the vocabulary must be expanded accordingly.\n\nSeparating the vocabulary from the logic makes it possible for business rules to be modeled, with the business user mapping their business logic and with IT integrating data and the generated code into the target application. \nBusiness rules are also key to the enterprise decision management approach to decision automation.\n\nIncreasingly, business rules are also viewed as a critical component of business process management solutions because of the need to ensure flexibility.\n\nAs argued by Christopher J. Date, business rules translate into data integrity constraints when one thinks in terms of the relational model of database management. Thus, a true RDBMS could be thought of in terms of a declarative business rules engine with added data management capability.\n\nHowever, business rules need not only be regarded as constraints. They can also be used to specify constructive business policies, such as \"preferred clients get a discount of 10%\". Used in this way, business rules are like SQL queries, rather than data integrity constraints.\n\nSome analysts believe the combination of business rules technology with business process management offers an agile approach to workflow and enterprise integration. BPM and BR software support business goals by managing and running business processes and business rules in separate yet complementary ways. A business process is often a complex map of flow controls. It might have many subprocesses, decisions and while loops. Wherever a decision or while loop appears, business rules can evaluate the data provided by the process and control the basis for change in flows.\n\nOften there are separate reasons for updates to processes or rules. New regulations or business strategies may affect the rules without changing core business processes. New applications or procedures might change the business process. In either case, a composite approach to rules and processes can be very flexible.\n\nAs more and more BPM vendors either add business rules engines to their BPM engines or OEM business rules management systems, business rules seems to be becoming a subset of BPM.\n\nBusiness Rules Engine Providers\n\n"}
{"id": "2217519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2217519", "title": "CNBC on Assignment", "text": "CNBC on Assignment\n\nCNBC on Assignment is a series of business reports running on the TV channel CNBC.\n\nThe program's reports have included:\n\nThe music for \"CNBC on Assignment\" was made by 615 Music, a company from Nashville, Tennessee, that also made the music for the business day programs on CNBC.\n"}
{"id": "579196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=579196", "title": "Chief process officer", "text": "Chief process officer\n\nA chief process officer (CPO) is an executive responsible for business process management at the highest level of an organization. CPOs usually report directly to the CEO or board of directors. They oversee business process activities and are responsible for defining rules, policies, and guidelines to ensure that the main objectives follow the company strategy as well as establishing control mechanisms.\n\nThe CPO defines the process management strategy and related objectives for the company; develops, documents, and introduces the process model; and monitors process compliance.\n"}
{"id": "19321576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19321576", "title": "Commercial &amp; Financial Chronicle", "text": "Commercial &amp; Financial Chronicle\n\nThe Commercial & Financial Chronicle was a business newspaper in the United States founded by William Buck Dana (1829–1910) in 1865. Published weekly, the \"Commercial & Financial Chronicle\" was deliberately modeled to be an American take on the popular business newspaper \"The Economist\", which had been founded in England in 1843. It was the first national business weekly in the United States.\n\nThe \"Commercial & Financial Chronicle\" continued the legacy begun by \"Hunt's Merchant's Magazine and Commercial Review\", a monthly business magazine, which was founded in 1839 by Freeman Hunt but disappeared during the American Civil War. They are together in many library collections. Dana continued as editor of the \"Chronicle\" until his death in 1910.\n\nThe \"Commercial & Financial Chronicle\" never had the large subscriber base or influence of \"The Wall Street Journal\" or \"Barron's\". In 1872 its circulation was around 4,000 and reached 26,000 by 1922. Data from the publication is, however, used by many economic historians, as it is one of the few sources available. Douglas Steeples, Dana's biographer, wrote that \"one can scarcely reconstruct the business history of the United States between the Civil War and 1910 without immersing oneself in his paper. Even the most important series of business statistics published by the U.S. government, \"Historical Statistics of the United States\" [...], depends heavily on his work and that of the correspondents worldwide who contributed to the \"Chronicle\".\" The publication (little known or noticed at the time of its demise) ceased publication during the fall out of Black Monday and the stock market troubles of 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "3417018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3417018", "title": "Community unionism", "text": "Community unionism\n\nCommunity unionism, also known as reciprocal unionism, refers to the formation of alliances between unions and non-labour groups in order to achieve common goals.<ref name=\"10.1093/jeg/lbn011\"></ref> These unions seek to organize the employed, unemployed, and underemployed. They press for change in the workplace and beyond, organizing around issues such as welfare reform, health care, jobs, housing, and immigration. Individual issues at work are seen as being a part of broader societal problems which they seek to address. Unlike trade unions, community union membership is not based on the workplace- it is based on common identities and issues. Alliances forged between unions and other groups may have a primary identity based on affiliations of religion, ethnic group, gender, disability, environmentalism, neighborhood residence, or sexuality.\n\nCommunity unionism has many definitions and practices. It varies according to country, institutional and political contexts, internal organization, leadership, scale, organizing style, sources of funding, and communication structure. In all, there is no \"universal\" community union; they take on many different forms. In order to simplify the complex structures of community unions, 4 categories have been established (although in practice community unions may blur the boundaries of these classifications):\n\n\nA part of the discourse of why community unionism has many definitions is in the ambiguity of the word \"community\" itself. In \"Coalitions and Community Unionism\", Tattersall breaks the word \"community\" into three elements which may help in understanding community unions better: as organizations, common interest and identity, and place.\n\nCommunity union initiatives aim to achieve a number of things:\n\n\nIn \"Community Unionism A Comparative Analysis of Concepts and contexts\", McBride and Greenwood note that community unions are not a new idea: it is an old form of unionism that dates back 150 years. They point out that in the early period of trade union formation, UK unions were organized within local communities where factories and heavy industry were geographically established. They find that this community/union relationship was broken with the changing geographies of employment and industrial restructuring. With this change, stable communities were destroyed that were located around the docks, mines, mills, and other regions of heavy industry. Supporting this idea, Hess also agrees that community factors have always been a part of unionism in \"Community as a Factor in Union Organization\".\n\nBlack establishes that the term “community unionism” was first used in the 1960s in his article “Community Unionism: A Strategy for Organizing in the New Economy”. He states that James O’Connar used the term in 1964: he believed that in the future, communities would become central to working class organization because of the instability of workplaces. Jones envisioned that future employment would be deskilled and insecure, and because of this, the workplace would no longer be appropriate for organization. He anticipated that community unions would be established in de-industrialized towns, and urban slums. He also believed that community unions would work to improve housing, welfare, and public services.\n\nAs well, Black points out that the notion of community unionism was also used by organizers within the United Auto Workers (UAW) labour union in the 1960s. An organizer by the name of Jack Conway envisioned a new form of unionism that would develop. Conway too, believed that “community” would take over the central role of the factory in organizing workers in trade unionism. He came to believe this by looking at the Farm Workers Union (FWU). He noticed that the issues that farmers were facing went beyond the workplace. Conway concluded that the new form of unions would focus on grievances, political education, and community organization.\n\nIn \"Community Unions in Canada and Labor’s (Re)Organization of Space\", Tufts also explains how a labour leader of the UAW, Walter Reuther, envisioned a new form of unionism. Reuther believed that the labour movement should be more of a “social movement” opposed to an “economic movement”.\n\nTattersall points out in her article \"Coalitions and Community Unionism:Using the Term Community to Explore Effective Union-Community Collaborations\", that \"community unions\" were also created by the Students for a Democratic Society (SDS) in the United States in the 1960s. These community unions were community based, worker organizations. Tattersall also notes that along with the UAW, the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s also used the term \"community unionism\". Here, the term was used to describe community organizations that sought to organize the urban working poor in the United States.\n\nAlthough the notion of community unionism was being put into practice in certain areas, it was not widely accepted by majority of people, and business unionism dominated. It was not until the 1990s that the practice of community unions increased.\n\nThe 1970s and 1980s witnessed profound restructuring of labour markets. Neoliberal policies that emerged in the 1970s were adopted by many governments around the world, and included measures such as deregulation and privatization. These policies created insecurity in employment by breaking down institutional regulatory and political support for unions. Traditional unions experienced a loss of power, influence, and members. During this period of economic restructuring, communities were forced to form coalitions with the labour movement to fight factory closures and relocations that were the basis of many local economies. Community unionism can be understood as a response to neoliberalism and globalization: it was a turn back to the local level-or community- in organizing. It seeks to organize some of the most vulnerable people- immigrants, women, and people of colour- who have been disproportionately affected by the growth of exploitative working conditions in the neoliberal economy.\n\nCommunity unions were formed in Japan in the early 1980s. They emerged spontaneously from grassroots organizations and from labour councils (although labour councils account for a larger number of organizing activities). Labour councils that supported community unions were affiliated with Sohyo: a left leaning union confederation. These labour councils were in charge of different regions and directly represented workers by forming community unions. Labour councils held relative autonomy from the larger national confederation. They were able to achieve this because they maintained their own finances and staff. Thus, community unions were dependent on labour councils for resources that supported these organizations. Because workers with part-time employment were excluded from union membership at those firms, labour councils sought to represent people with part-time employment and people who worked in small firms in a given region. Councils found these workers through “labour problem hotlines”. Because of their independence from the larger confederation, organizing activities varied with each labour council.\n\nThe range of activities among these labour councils included:\n\n\nIn 1989, Sohyo was replaced with a formation of a new confederation: Rengo. This restructuring impacted the relationship that labour councils had with community unions: labour councils would no longer organize workers; they were now a part of Rengo’s Regional Organizations. These Regional Organizations do not have the freedom and activities that labour councils once had and do not support community unions thus some community unions broke up during this time. Community unions that remained faced challenges dealing with finances and autonomy workers.\n\nJapanese community unions function differently from US, Canadian, Australian, and UK community unions: their membership turnover is high, and membership rates are low. They are substantially smaller, have a weak financial base-requiring members to donate- and have high rank and file participation. These community unions take the form of a specific organizational model: Community Organization/No Union Partner. This framework of community unionism resembles US and Canadian Worker Centers but in practice is quite different. In addition, Japanese community unions do not tend to reflect coalition building like US, Canada, Australia, and UK. This can be explained by Japan’s lack of community-based organizations able to form alliances with community unions, and that Japanese community unions pursue individual issues opposed to broader range of issues that affect livelihoods of many people. Most issues that community unions deal with are: disputes over dismissals, working hours and leave, harassment, demotion or reduction in wages, discrimination, and working conditions. Community unions try to negotiate a settlement for the workers complaint and if it falls through, then are redirected to government labour committees or courts. Once a community union wins a case for a worker, the worker usually gives a part of his/her compensation back to the community union, and then resigns.\n\nLike other advanced industrial economies, community unionism sprang up in the US in the 1980s. Community unions were formed from community and faith-based organizing networks, Central American solidarity movements and other left wing organizations, legal services and social service agencies, immigrant non-governmental organizations, churches, and labour unions. US community unions focus on issues that go beyond the workplace such as housing, health care, education, and immigration.\n\nCraft unionism in the US organized workers based on their trade by class or skill. The jobs these workers had were stable, paid a living wage, provided pensions, and offered long-term employment. Within the last 20 years, the highly competitive and mobile nature of US firms has resulted in outsourcing and subcontracting practices. These widespread practices have negative impacts on workers: lower wages, little/no access to benefits, decreased hours, and no pension. Not only are unions being dismantled by neoliberal policies, but the precarious work that has risen out of the US economy no longer identifies with craft union practices as low wage workers are facing different challenges. In addition, many jobs that are coming to characterize the US economy are non-unionized. Community unionism has been a response to these issues in the US, and has provided activities at a local level that work to set up labour market protections for low wage workers. They accomplish this by organizing members and allies in bringing pressure on elected officials to support them. Thus, US community unions rely on politics and public policy in creating change for members (wages, hours, working conditions). Community union membership may be based on ethnic, racial, religious affiliations and geographic areas.\n\nUS community unions vary in their organizational framework. They reflect the 4 structures of community unions. For example:\n\nCommunity organization/ no union partner: Worker centers fall into this category.\n\nLabour Union or unions/ no community partner: SEIU’s National Justice for Janitors & CHOP Chicago Homecare Organizing Project.\n\nCommunity/ labour partnership but with community organization dominant: Partnership of Industrial Areas Foundation (IAF) and the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employers (AFSCME) in Baltimore & The Partnership of Industrial Areas Foundation (IAF) and the United Food and Commercial Workers (UFCW) in Omaha.\n\nCommunity/labour partnership but with labour union dominant: The Stamford Organizing Project of the AFL-CIO.\n\nIn “Community Unionism: A Strategy for Organizing in the New Economy”, Black highlights that community organizations can be territorial. This can lead to conflict when two separate groups try to organize the same community. Black also points out that conflict may also arise over what the focus of their organizing will be based on. Disagreement on the specific goals of the organization can take the form of short-term and long-term goals. Black also finds that there can be conflict on the internal structure of a community union (specifically, equal participation in the organization).\n\nIn “Community Unions in Japan: Similarities Differences of Region Based Labour Movements between Japan and Other Industrialized Countries”, Suzuki finds that challenges arise because of the different ways of looking at community unions: community unions may not fall into a specific category and may bridge different elements of coalition building and social movements. For Suzuki, there may be difficulty in forming equal partnerships between unions and organizations, and workers and the unemployed.\n\nIn \"Community Unionism A Comparative Analysis of Concepts and Contexts\", McBride and Greenwood believe that traditional unions may have problems in giving up their power and control when forming alliances with community organizations. Traditional unions are structured hierarchically and operate differently from community organizations which may cause problems. McBride and Greenwood also found that there are no accessible spaces for communities to form relationships with trade unions. They found that these alliances are formed through formal meetings. This can be a problematic for expanding links into communities as it is a very narrow way of establishing relationships.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2815091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2815091", "title": "Dewar Trophy", "text": "Dewar Trophy\n\nThe Dewar Trophy was a cup donated in the early years of the twentieth century by Sir Thomas R. Dewar, M.P. a member of parliament of the United Kingdom (UK), to be awarded each year by the Royal Automobile Club (R. A .C.) of the United Kingdom \"to the motor car which should successfully complete the most meritorious performance or test furthering the interests and advancement of the [automobile] industry\".\n\nSome of the trophy winners include:\n\n\nOn Saturday, 29 February 1908, three Model Ks from the 1907 Cadillac production were released from the stock of the Anglo-American Motor-car Company, the UK agent for Cadillac automobiles, at the Heddon Street showroom in London (these were engines Nos. 23391, 24111 and 24118). The three cars, all registered in London under the numbers A2EO, A3EO and A4EO, were driven 25 miles to the Brooklands race track at Weybridge. There, the cars completed ten laps of the track, or approximately 30 miles, before being locked away until Monday, 2 March 1908, when they were released and disassembled completely, using only wrenches, screwdrivers, hammers, and pliers. Each car was reduced to a pile of 721 component parts, which were then scrambled into one heap by the RAC. Eighty-nine parts requiring extreme accuracy were withdrawn from the heap, locked away at the Brooklands club house and replaced with new parts from Anglo-American's showroom stock. The parts were then sorted into three piles, each with all the parts needed to assemble a car. A mechanic - Mr. E. O. Young - reassembled the cars with the help of his assistant - Mr. M. M. Gardner. Sometimes they had to work ankle-deep in water, using only wrenches and screwdrivers. The third car was re-assembled by Thursday morning, 12 March. With the painted parts on the original cars not being identical in color or style, the reassembled cars were mismatched in appearance, gaining the nickname \"harlequin cars\". By 2 p.m. on Friday 13 March the three cars had completed the mandatory 500-mile run with singular regularity. Only one point was lost owing to a broken cotter pin in the ignition lever (promptly replaced from stock). During the event, it was reported that one of the sheds where the parts were stored became partly flooded during a heavy storm and some parts became rusted. Only oily rags could be used to remove all traces of the immersion. On completion of the test, one of the cars was locked away until the start of the 2000-miles reliability trials in June 1908. It came out the winner of the R.A.C. Trophy for its class. Parts interchangeability had been publicly demonstrated and field tested.\n\nImmediately following the introduction of the sleeve-valve principle into the Daimler engine, the Daimler Company in 1909 asked the Royal Automobile Club to frame conditions of a test that should be of unprecedented severity and would demonstrate in the most public manner possible that the new Daimler engine was in every way reliable.\n\nThe two engines selected for this test were a 38 and a 22-h.p., having a bore and stroke, respectively, of 124 by 130 mm. and 96 by 130 mm. They were bolted down to the test bench close together in one of the large engine testing shops at the Daimler Works. The section of the shop in which they were placed was railed off and under the sole charge and observation of the R.A.C. officials from the start of the test to the finish. The observers kept watch day and night just as on board a ship, and periodically tested the revolution counters and spring balances to ensure that the engines were always running under full load. Every possible precaution was taken to keep constant and close observation upon the test, and there were never less than two observers on duty.\n\nBoth engines were started up at 6 a.m. on Monday, March 22, 1909, and each completed the 132 hours' bench test on the following Saturday evening. To appreciate more clearly the severity of the test, if the larger engine had been driving a car during the whole time, with the standard Daimler gear ratios, a distance of no less than 8,252 miles (13280 km) would have been covered, at a mean speed of 43.45 m.p.h. (69.92 km/h) while the smaller engine would have covered, similarly, a distance of 8,830 miles (14210 km) at 48.4 m.p.h. (77.9 km/h). The disparity in speed and distance between these results is, of course, attributable to the higher rate of revolutions of the smaller engine.\n\n-- Details of the 38-H.P. Engine Test --\n\nFirst Bench Test-\n\nThe speed of the engine was 1200 r.p.m. giving a limit of 50.0 h.p. below which the h.p. was at no time to fall.\n\nThe duration of the test was 5 days 14 hours 15 minutes or 134.25 hours.\n\nThere were no stops incurring any penalties.\n\nThere were five stops totalling 1 hour and 56 minutes which did not incur any penalty under Rule 6 (2)\n\nThe load was eased for a total of 19 minutes for brake adjustments, but the engine was not stopped.\nAverage horse-power recorded, 54.3.\n\nPetrol consumed, 614 gallons equal to .679 pints per horse-power hour.\n\nRunning Test\n\nOn completion of the first test, the engine was removed from the bench and fitted under observation to the chassis without any vital parts being disturbed. A standard type four-seater body was fitted and the car proceeded from Coventry to Weybridge - 112 miles (180.2 km). The average weight of the car and passengers on the road was 4,085 lbs = 1 ton 16 cwt 1 qr 25 lbs (1852.9 kg).\n\nThe runs on Brooklands track amounted to 1,930.5 miles (3106.8 km)at an average speed of 42.4 mph (68.2 km/h) with an average weight of car and passengers of 3,805 lb (1726 kg). A distance of 5 miles was traversed in running to and from the car-headquarters and the track, and this with the return journey to Coventry made a total mileage of 2,159.5 (3474.5 km).\n\nThe petrol consumption on the track was equal to 20.57 m.p.g. and on the road 19.48 m.p.g.\nThe ton-miles per gallon of fuel were 34.94 on the track and 35.97 on the road.\n\nFinal Bench Test\n\nOn arrival in Coventry, the engine was replaced on the test bench and run for 5 hours 15 minutes during which there were no stoppages of any description; the load was eased for 15 minutes for brake adjustments.\n\nAverage horse-power recorded, 57.25.\n\nPetrol consumed, 22.5 gallons = .599 pints per horse-power hour.\n\nThe judges append the following remarks to their certificate:\n\"The engine was completely dismantled, and no perceptible wear was noticeable on any of the fitted surfaces.\nThe cylinders and pistons were found to be notably clean.\nThe only perceptible wear in any part was caused by two joint pins rubbing against adjacent parts.\nThe ports of the valves showed no burning or wear.\"\n\n-- Details of the 22-H.P. Engine Test --\n\nFirst Bench Test-\n\nThe speed of the engine was 1,400 r.p.m. giving a limit of 35.3 h.p. below which the h.p. was at no time to fall.\n\nThe duration of the test was 5 days 12 hours 58 minutes or 132 hours 58 minutes.\nThere were no stops incurring any penalty.\n\nThere were two stops of 17 minutes total duration, which did not incur any penalty under Rule 6 (2)\nThe load was eased for a total of 41 minutes for brake adjustments, but the engine was not stopped.\nAverage horse-power recorded was 38.83.\n\nPetrol consumed, 476.5 gallons equal to .739 pints per h.p. hour.\n\nRunning Test\n\nThe conditions for the running test were the same as for the 38-h.p. car test, but with varying figures as to the results.\n\nAverage weight of the car and passengers on the road was 3,512.5 lbs (1638.6 kg); on the track, 3,332.5 lb (1511.6 kg).\n\nDistance covered on Brooklands track, 1,914.1 miles (3080.4 km).\n\nAverage speed, 41.88 mph (67.4 km/h).\n\nThe petrol consumption on the track was equal to 22.44 m.p.g. and on the road 19.48 m.p.g.\nThe ton-miles per gallon of fuel were 33.37 on the track and 31.19 on the road.\n\nThe total mileage of 2,143.1 (3449 km).\n\nFinal Bench Test\n\nDuration, 5 hours 2 minutes. No stoppages of any description; the load was eased for 1 minute.\nAverage horse-power recorded, 38.96.\nPetrol consumed, 18.25 gallons = .749 pints per h.p. hour.\nThe judges append the following remarks to their certificate:\n\"The engine was completely dismantled, and no perceptible wear was noticeable on any of the fitted surfaces.\nThe cylinders and pistons were found to be notably clean.\nThe ports of the valves showed no burning or wear.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51065120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51065120", "title": "Director of credit and collections", "text": "Director of credit and collections\n\nA director of credit and collections is a senior-level employee in an organization's credit department. Job responsibilities may include:\n\nEmployees holding the director of credit and collections position typically have a bachelor's degree or higher, 15–20 years of credit experience, global experience and a Certified Credit Executive designation from the National Association of Credit Management (NACM).\n\nAs of June 2016, the median salary for a director of credit and collections is $105,282. They typical salary is between $90,419 and $125,160.\n\nCredit analysts in the United States can obtain memberships, continuing education and certification through NACM. Certification levels include Credit Business Associate, Certified Credit and Risk Analyst, Credit Business Fellow, Certified Credit Executive, Certified International Credit Professional and International Certified Credit Executive.\n\n"}
{"id": "25282143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25282143", "title": "Downtown Toledo", "text": "Downtown Toledo\n\nDowntown Toledo is the central business district of Toledo, Ohio. The area has seen a huge revival in the last few years with new retail, restaurants, entertainment venues, etc. moving into what had been, for many, considered a somewhat of a forgotten ghost town for years. Both the Warehouse District and the area surrounding the Huntington Center have been areas of recent growth.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11050621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050621", "title": "Florida State University Business Law Review", "text": "Florida State University Business Law Review\n\nThe Florida State University Business Review is a legal journal published at the Florida State University College of Law. It was founded in 2000 to provide a scholarly forum for contemporary legal discourse and to address the issues and concerns transforming the business community. It is generally recognized among the top 10 business reviews in the US based on citations. The current Editors-in-Chief are C. Alex Weaver and Eric S. Pendergraft.\n"}
{"id": "65221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65221", "title": "Franco Modigliani", "text": "Franco Modigliani\n\nFranco Modigliani (; June 18, 1918 – September 25, 2003) was an Italian-American economist and the recipient of the 1985 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics. He was a professor at UIUC, Carnegie Mellon University, and MIT.\n\nModigliani was born on 18 June 1918, in Rome, Italy, to the Jewish Italian family of a pediatrician father and a voluntary social worker mother.\n\nHe entered college at the age of seventeen, enrolling in the faculty of Law at the Sapienza University of Rome. A few years before, in 1936, his submission to a nation-wide contest in economics, sponsored by the official student organization of the state, had won first prize and Modigliani received an award from the hand of Benito Mussolini. Among his early works in fascist Italy was an article about the organization and management of production in a socialist economy, written in Italian and arguing the case for socialism along lines laid out by earlier market socialists like Abba Lerner and Oskar Lange.\n\nAfter the passage of racial laws in Italy, in 1938, Modigliani left Italy for Paris together with his then-girlfriend, Serena Calabi, to join her parents there. After briefly returning to Rome to discuss his doctoral thesis at the city's University, he obtained his diploma on 22 July 1939, and returned to Paris.\n\nThe same year, they all emigrated to the United States and he enrolled at the Graduate Faculty of the New School for Social Research. His degree thesis, an elaboration and extension of John Hicks's IS–LM model, was written under the supervision of Jacob Marschak and Abba Lerner, in 1944, and is considered \"ground breaking.\"\n\nFrom 1942 to 1944, Modigliani taught at Columbia University and Bard College as an instructor in economics and statistics. In 1946, he became a naturalized citizen of the United States. In 1948, he joined the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign faculty. From 1952 to 1962, he was a member of the Carnegie Mellon University faculty.\n\nIn 1962, he joined the faculty of MIT, as an Institute Professor.\n\nModigliani, from the 1950s, is the originator of the life-cycle hypothesis, which attempts to explain the level of saving in the economy. In the hypothesis it is proposed that consumers aim for a stable level of consumption throughout their lifetime (for example by saving during their working years and then spending during their retirement).\n\nThe rational expectations hypothesis is considered by economists to originate in the later-considered \"seminal\" paper written by Modigliani and Emile Grunberg in 1954.\n\nWhen he was a member of the Carnegie Mellon University faculty, he formulated in 1958, along with Merton Miller, the Modigliani–Miller theorem for corporate finance. The theorem posits that, under certain assumptions, the value of a firm is not affected by whether it is financed by equity (selling shares) or by debt (borrowing money), meaning that the debt-to-equity ratio is unimportant for private firms.\n\nIn the early 1960s, his response, co-authored with Albert Ando, to the 1963 paper of Milton Friedman and David I. Meiselman, initiated the so-called \"monetary/fiscal policy debate\" among economists, which went on for more than sixty years.\n\nIn 1975, Modigliani, in a paper whose co-author was his former student Lucas Papademos, introduced the concept of the \"NIRU\", the non-inflationary rate of unemployment, ostensibly an improvement over the \"natural rate of unemployment\" concept. The terms refer to a level of unemployment below which inflation rises.\n\nIn 1997, Modigliani and his granddaughter, Leah Modigliani, developed what is now called the \"Modigliani Risk-Adjusted Performance,\" a measure of the risk-adjusted returns of an investment portfolio that was derived from the Sharpe ratio, adjusted for the risk of the portfolio relative to that of a benchmark, e.g. the \"market.\"\n\nIn October 1985, Modigliani was awarded that year's Nobel prize in Economics \"for his pioneering analyses of saving and of financial markets.\"\n\nIn 1985, Modigliani received MIT's James R. Killian Faculty Achievement Award. In 1997, he received an \"honoris causa\" degree in Management Engineering from the University of Naples Federico II in 1997.\n\nLate in his life, Modigliani became a trustee of the Economists for Peace and Security organization, formerly \"Economists Allied for Arms Reduction\" and was considered an \"influential adviser\": in the late 1960s, on a contract with the Federal Reserve, he designed the \"MIT-Pennsylvania-Social Science Research Council\" model, a tool that \"guided monetary policy in Washington for many decades.\"\n\nA collection of Modigliani's papers is housed at Duke University's Rubenstein Library.\n\nModigliani's work on fiscal policy came under criticism from followers of Post-Keynesian economics, who disputed the \"Keynesianism\" of his viewpoints, pointing out his contribution to the NAIRU concept, as well as his general stance on fiscal deficits. The Modigliani-Miller theorem implies that, for a closed economy, state borrowing is merely deferred taxation, since state spending can be financed only by \"printing money\", taxation, or borrowing, and therefore monetary financing of state spending implies the subsequent imposition of a so-called \"inflation tax,\" which ostensibly has the same effect on permanent income as explicit taxation.\n\nNonetheless, they acknowledged his dissenting voice on the issue of unemployment, where Modigliani concurred early on with heterodox economists that Europe-wide unemployment in the late 20th century was caused by the lack of demand induced by austerity policies.\n\nIn 1939, while they were in Paris, after having left Italy, Modigliani married Serena Calabi. They had two children, Andre and Sergio Modigliani. Their grandchildren were Leah, Julia, David, and Amelia, and their great-grandchildren Micaela, Sophia, Serena, and Chiara. When Franco Modigliani took the job at MIT, the couple bought a home on North Road overlooking Vineyard Sound, near Chilmark, where they lived for the rest of their lives.\n\nModigliani died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 2003, while still working at MIT, and teaching until the last months of his life. Serena Modigliani-Calabi, active to the end in progressive politics, most notably with the League of Women Voters, and an outspoken believer in participatory democracy, died in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54817330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54817330", "title": "George Andah", "text": "George Andah\n\nGeorge Andah (born 27 April 1970 ) is a Ghanaian politician and the Member of Parliament of the Awutu Senya West Constituency in the Central Region of Ghana. He is a member of the New Patriotic Party and the deputy minister for communications in Ghana.\n\nGeorge had his secondary education at Achimota School and proceeded to KNUST where he studied for a bachelor's degree in Biochemistry.George also holds a MBA degree in Marketing from the University of Ghana.\n\nGeorge received the CIMG Marketing man of the year in 2010.\n\nGeorge is a founding member of Occupy Ghana a political pressure group.He is also the New Patriotic Party parliamentarian for Awutu-Senya West (Ghana parliament constituency).\n\nGeorge is married with four children and lives in Accra with his family.\n"}
{"id": "39046992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39046992", "title": "IModerate", "text": "IModerate\n\niModerate Research Technologies is an American qualitative market research firm that integrates instant messaging between consumers and professional moderators to generate market insights and to increase the quality of online surveys. iModerate is recognized for its one-on-one online interviews with consumers, which are designed to generate qualitative information about consumers’ emotions and decision-making processes.\n\niModerate partners with organizations across a range of industries, including the food and beverage, retail, media, and entertainment industries. The company has worked with over 30% of the companies on the Fortune 100 list, and also works with political campaigns to test the effectiveness of political ads and messages. As of 2013, iModerate has conducted over 100,000 conversations with consumers. The company is headquartered in Denver, CO.\n\niModerate was founded by Carl Rossow, Joel Benenson, Scott Rossow, Jen Drolet and Adam Rossow in 2004 to provide large organizations with more insightful market research. The company was created to introduce more extensive insights into market research by utilizing one-on-one, real-time conversations with consumers.\n\nThe approach was considered novel at the time when most marketing research was being conducted through traditional focus groups and standard online surveys.\n\nPrior to founding iModerate, Carl Rossow led the Denver research firm Innovative Survey Research, and was the head of internal polling operations for U.S. President Bill Clinton from 1996 to 2000.\n\niModerate moderators hold real-time, one-on-one conversations with consumers. The overall conversation-based approach is designed to provide the client with deeper consumer insights.\n\nDuring the conversations, iModerate moderators collect qualitative feedback from the consumer, such as the ways the consumer uses a given product or service. In many cases, the qualitative conversations are conducted in conjunction with online surveys for a more comprehensive hybrid research approach.\n\niModerate’s qualitative offering is based on a proprietary approach and analysis framework called ThoughtPath. The framework is developed from cognitive theories and empirical information derived from previous conversations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5607433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5607433", "title": "Isidor Zuckermann", "text": "Isidor Zuckermann\n\nIsidor Zuckermann (May 21, 1866 – 1946) was an Austrian businessman. He was born near Kamianets-Podilskyi in the Podolia Governorate of the Russian Empire (modern-day Ukraine), and emigrated with his family to the United Kingdom in 1939. He died in Keswick, Cumbria in 1946. He is interred in St. John's Church Cemetery, Keswick.\n\nZuckermann was CEO of the Aktiengesellschaft für Mühlen-und Holzindustrie (Mill and Wood Industry Stock Corporation) in Vienna from 1894 to 1938. At the end of World War I, and the breakup of the Austrian Hungarian Empire with the resulting political and financial chaos, Zuckermann and his company participated within a business combination of other wood, timber, and plywood companies under the organization umbrella of Foresta AG that was managed through the Banca Commerciale Italiano, now the Banca Intesa. This participation was primarily active in the early to middle 1920s.\n\nZuckermann spent his career in all segments of the wood industry, including the great forests of Bialowieza (portions of which are in Poland), and in his early work the Austrio-Hungarian Empire. He created a vertically integrated wood products company with headquarters in Vienna during the early 20th century. This company was instrumental in introducing, on a major scale, the use of narrow gauge rails with steam engines for the transportation of harvested logs to saw mills, a major improvement in this industry. Although there were some others who had experimented with this technique, Zuckermann and the AMH company maximized its use.\n\nZuckermann married Stefanie (née Steiner), a native of Žilina, Slovakia. They had two sons: Karl (1902-1960), and Frederick (1903-1996). After spending the formative years of his life in Russia and in the Eastern parts of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, he took up permanent residence in Vienna in 1913. Both sons attended schools in Vienna, and both graduated from the University of Vienna, receiving,according to the Archiv der Universitaet Wien, \"Doctorates in Political Economy; Karl in 1925 (thesis: \"Das Zurechnungsproblem und seine Loesungen\", and Frederick in 1926, [Doctor rerum politicarum, or dr. rer pol.], and was the author of the doctoral thesis \"Die Stellung der Berufsgenossenschaften im Staate und das Problem der berufsständischen Vertretung\". Karl, prior to World War II established a plywood company in the Merseyside area of Liverpool that specialized in plywood panels for doors. With the start of World War II, this company's production was utilized by the British government for such things as \"aeroplane wings and submarines.\"\n\nIsidor Zuckermann had a sister, Rose, and an older brother, Joshua. Rose emigrated to the United States in 1886, at first settling in Baltimore, Maryland where she married Solomon Joseph Goldstein who had arrived in 1880. They later moved to Philadelphia and then to Camden, New Jersey where Solomon was involved in business.\n\n"}
{"id": "6863311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6863311", "title": "John H. Dowd", "text": "John H. Dowd\n\nJohn H. Dowd (1922–2004) was a Hershey Chocolate Company brand manager, best known for negotiating the agreement that placed Reese's Pieces to tie in with Steven Spielberg's \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\".\n\nDuring World War II, Jack served in a unit charged with conducting patrols behind enemy lines. He was awarded a Silver Star, three Bronze Stars, three Purple Hearts and the Combat Infantryman Badge. He was later transferred to Military Intelligence and discharged as a First Lieutenant.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Connecticut he was accepted at the Harvard School of Business at which he received his MBA in 1948.\n\nAfter graduation, he spent a few years at Standard Brands before moving on to an 18-year career with various advertising agencies in both Boston and New York. During this time, he directed the preparation of advertising for everything from margarine and meat spreads to chemicals and concrete.\n\nIn 1966, Jack joined Hershey Chocolate Company as Brands Manager and advanced his way to Vice President of New Business Development. He introduced the concepts of Brands Management and Marketing Plans and later participated in the initiation of the first consumer advertising program in the company's history, all while directing the development and introduction of dozens of new products. In 1982, Jack negotiated a contract for Reese's Pieces to tie in with Steven Spielberg's \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\", the first promotion in the company's history for which he was featured in \"People Magazine\" and named \"Consumer Products Man of the Year\" by \"Sales and Marketing\" magazine. His story was included in the book \"Emperors of Chocolate\" and in the February 1999 issue of \"Readers Digest\". In 1999 he was inducted into the University of Connecticut School of Business Hall of Fame.\n\nDowd served as Chairman of the Board of the Association of National Advertisers as well as on the Board of the Advertising Council. His civic activities included service on the Board of the Harrisburg area Red Cross and then as Interim Executive Director.\n"}
{"id": "41324488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41324488", "title": "John Owen Hughes", "text": "John Owen Hughes\n\nJohn Owen Hughes (d. February 1945) was a British businessman in Hong Kong and member of the Executive Council and Legislative Council of Hong Kong.\n\nJ. Owen Hughes was a well-known British expatriate in Hong Kong in the colonial period. He was the head of the Harry Wicking & Co. He was also appointed member of the board of the Union Insurance Society of Canton in 1927. He joined the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce and became an active member in the Chamber. He served on the committee of the Chamber from 1921 to 1931 and in 1924 he was elected the Chairman of the Chamber in succession to D. G. M. Bernard. He had also been Chairman of the Metals Sub-Committee for years.\n\nOwen Hughes was the representative of the Chamber on the Legislative Council from 1927 to 1931. He was elected in May 1927 to take place from the chairman of the Chamber D. G. M. Bernard as the representative of the Chamber. He resigned from the committee and the representation of the Chamber of Commerce on the Legislative Council from 25 April 1931. He was again appointed to the Legislative Council temporarily in May 1934 during Henry Pollock on leave.\n\nHe was appointed to the Executive Council on several occasions, in May and October 1928 and in July 1930 for Henry Pollock.\n\nAmong others he was also member of the Licensing Board and the Authorized Architects' Committee.\n\nDuring his stay in Hong Kong, Owen Hughes joined the Victoria Lodge of the Freemasonry and became the Master. In August 1926, appointed the District Grand Master of English Freemasonry for Hong Kong and South China, in succession to P. H. Hoyoak who deceased.\n\nHe was held as prisoner of war at the Stanley Internment Camp during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong and died in February 1945\n\nJohn Owen Hughes' son Harry Owen Hughes was a well-known cricketer in Hong Kong. He was married to Frances Isabel Oakley, daughter of H. G. Oakley of Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire. The wedding took place at St. John's Cathedral, Hong Kong on 7 December 1929 and was attended by Governor Cecil Clementi.\n"}
{"id": "18622880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622880", "title": "L. Glenn Perry", "text": "L. Glenn Perry\n\nLloyd Glenn Perry (October 28, 1944 – October 21, 1998) was the first Chief Accountant of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. His appointment to this post by Ronald Reagan was announced on September 23, 1982 in the SEC News Digest. \n\nHe led numerous actions against publicly traded companies for false financial reporting and disclosure known as \"cooking the books.\" Most notable of these was the action against California's Financial Corp. of America. After an investigation by Perry and the SEC, the company was forced to re-report second-quarter profits in 1984 to show a $107.5 million loss instead of a $31.1 million profit. This case is credited with being the first indication of the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s.\n\nHe became a recognized expert in policing false financial disclosure and articles written by him such as \"Policing Financial Disclosure Fraud: The SEC's Top Priority\" are still referenced and used in college accounting text books such as \"Accounting Theory\" ( LCC: HF5625) edited by Richard G. Schroeder and Myrtle W. Clark and published by John Wiley & Sons.\n\nHe was born on October 28, 1944 in Gatesville, North Carolina. He graduated from Churchland High School in Portsmouth, Virginia and was a star baseball player and track athlete. He graduated from Old Dominion College in 1967 and was a member of the Alpha Kappa Psi business fraternity.\n\nHe was Chairman of the Ethics Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.\n\nHe was a Senior Partner of the accounting firm KPMG retiring as head of the Office of Ethics and Professional Practice. Upon being made a partner in 1976 at the age of 31, he was the youngest person to achieve that in the firm's history at that time.\n"}
{"id": "19506774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19506774", "title": "Maiden Lane (Manhattan)", "text": "Maiden Lane (Manhattan)\n\nMaiden Lane is an east-west street in the Financial District of the New York City borough of Manhattan. Its eastern end is at South Street, near the South Street Seaport, and its western end is at Broadway near the World Trade Center site, where it becomes Cortlandt Street.\n\nThe street received its name in New Amsterdam, as \"Maagde Paatje\", a \"footpath used by lovers along a rippling brook\", according to the \"WPA Guide to New York City\", a \"pebbly brook\" that ran from Nassau Street to the East River, where wives and daughters washed linen according to the city historians Edwin Burrows and Mike Wallace.\n\nThe street was formally laid out in 1696, the first street north of still-palisaded Wall Street.\n\nBy 1728, a market was held at the foot of Maiden Lane, where it ended at Front Street facing the East River; by 1823, when it was demolished and disbanded, the Fly Market, selling meat, country produce and fish under its covered roofs, was New York's oldest. It eventually gave way to the Fulton Fish Market, and later, the New Amsterdam Market. The Fly Market, and its successor the Fulton Fish Market, which moved to the Bronx in 2005, was one of New York's earliest open-air fish markets. From a New York newspaper dated 1831: \n\nThe New York Slave Revolt of 1712 happened around Maiden Lane, in which 23 black slaves revolted, killing nine white men and women and injuring six other whites.\n\nIn September 1732, a company of professional actors arrived from London and took an upstairs room near the junction of Pearl Street which was fitted up with a platform stage, and marked the origin of professional theater in New York; by the time the company was disbanded in 1734, their building was known as the Play House.\n\nIn the spring of 1790, Thomas Jefferson rented a house at 57 Maiden Lane when he moved to New York to serve as the Secretary of State under George Washington. His dinner on June 20, 1790 at that house with Alexander Hamilton and James Madison produced the Compromise of 1790, whereby Hamilton won the decision for the national government to take over and pay the state debts, while Jefferson and Madison obtained the national capital (District of Columbia) for the South. The dinner was celebrated in the song \"The Room Where It Happens\" in the Broadway musical \"Hamilton\".\n\nMaiden Lane was a street of shops by the end of the 18th century, even before the new fashion for multi-paned shop windows caught on in the city. In 1827 the skylit New York Arcade, banking on the fashionable success of London's Burlington Arcade (1819), spanned the block between Maiden Lane and John Street east of Broadway with forty smart shops; however, while regarded as beautiful by many, it was also financially disastrous, and Charles Haynes Haswell recalled that \"it had not the success that had been anticipated…and survived but a few years\". Maiden Lane was soon one of the first city streets to be lit with gas lamps, which led to its being a popular shopping street. The slip at the foot of Main Lane was infilled in the early 19th century, accounting for the widened stretch in the last blocks before South Street, the present waterfront. The water of the erstwhile brook ran down the center of the street, until 1827, when a suggestion was made in Common Council to close it over and lead rainwater to the side gutters.\n\nOne of the handful of mid-19th century commercial structures still standing in the Financial District, is the building 90-94 Maiden Lane, built for Roosevelt & Son, with a cast-iron front (attributed to Charles Wright, 1870–71) by Daniel D. Badger.\n\nIn 1977, the Louise Nevelson Plaza, a triangular-shaped plaza at William Street, opened.\n\nFrom 1795 until the early 20th century, Maiden Lane was the center of the jewelry district. At Broadway, the bronze and glass clock embedded in the sidewalk by William Barthman Jewelers still keeps time. In 1894 developers Boehm & Coon erected the ten story Diamond Exchange Building on Maiden Lane, which was specially designed to accommodate the heavy safes used by gem dealers. According to a \"New York Times\" article in 1924, “the bride-to-be who could show a ring from Maiden Lane was thrice happy” because of the abundance of jewelry stores. In 1946 the New York City Police Department estimated that it was walked on by 51,000 people every weekday between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.\n\nThe jewelry industry started to move north by the 1920s, but had previously and fruitlessly tried to move uptown in the 1870s and 1900s. This was in part because the buildings on Maiden Lane had begun to age, even in the 1910s. Because of the city's rapid growth after World War II, this district was later moved to Chinatown on the Bowery and Canal Street, and to West 47th Street.\n\nMaiden Lane's jewelry district was referred to in the 1936 American crime film \"15 Maiden Lane\".\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "25155245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25155245", "title": "Maksharip Aushev", "text": "Maksharip Aushev\n\nMaksharip Magometovich Aushev (; 16 February 1966 – 25 October 2009) was an Ingush businessman and opposition leader in the Republic of Ingushetia, a federal subject of the Russian Federation. Aushev had taken over the opposition website, Ingushetia.org, after its owner, Magomed Yevloyev, a vocal critic of the Ingush government, was shot and killed while in police custody.\n\nAushev was a businessman and a member of a prominent Ingushetian family. In 2007, Aushev's son and nephew were both kidnapped. He blamed Ingush security forces under the control of then-President of Ingushetia Murat Zyazikov for the abductions. Aushev organized protests against the security forces and the Zyazikov government.\n\nIn 2008, journalist Magomed Yevloyev, the owner of Ingushetia.org and a critic of the Zyazikov government, was shot and killed while in police custody. Aushev personally took over ownership of Ingushetia.org following Yevloyev's death.\n\nThe Russian government removed Zyazikov in October 2008 and installed Yunus-Bek Yevkurov as president. Yevkurov offered dissidents in Ingushetia a certain amount of protection from politically motivated attacks. Aushev largely supported Yevkurov policies towards the opposition, and withdrew from his most vocal opposition to the government since Yevkurov's installation. Aushev accepted a position on a human rights council set up by the ombudsman of Russia's federal government. However, he remained a vocal critic of former President Zyazikov and his relatives, as well as the human rights violations allegedly committed by Russian special forces in Ingushetia and Chechnya.\n\nAushev survived an attempted kidnapping in September 2009. In an interview with an Australian television network, he revealed that he had “very strong information that I was going to be killed” during the failed abuduction.\n\nOn October 25, 2009, Aushev was shot and killed on the spot when gunmen attacked his car on a road near Nalchik in the neighboring Republic of Kabardino-Balkaria. He was buried in the Ingush village of Surkhakhi.\n\nOn 8 December 2009, Aushev was posthumously awarded the Russian Federation's human rights ombudsman's medal “” (\"\").\n\nIn a 2013 RT documentary, \"Blood and Honor: Chechen Vendetta Code\", Aushev's father, Magomed Aushev, states that he has spent more than $1 million trying to track down his son's killers. Magomed said he would forgive his son's killers only if they came to him first.\n"}
{"id": "45357845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45357845", "title": "Maria Patrizia Grieco", "text": "Maria Patrizia Grieco\n\nMaria Patrizia Grieco (born February 1, 1952) is an Italian corporate executive. She is currently the chairman of Enel, the director of Anima Holding and CNH Industrial, and a board member of Save the Children.\n\nGraduated in Law at the University of Milan, Grieco began her career in 1977 in Italtel, where she was appointed director of legal and general affairs in 1994, director-general in 1999 and managing director in 2002.\n\nOver the years she has held various managerial roles in a number of large companies, including:\n\n\nSince 2010 she is board member of Save the Children and part of the honour committee of the Bellisario prize.\n\nIn May 2014, Maria Patrizia Grieco became chairman of the board of Enel.\n\nSince 2015 she is a member of the Trilateral Commission.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "211683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211683", "title": "Military–industrial complex", "text": "Military–industrial complex\n\nThe military–industrial complex (MIC) is an informal alliance between a nation's military and the defense industry that supplies it, seen together as a vested interest which influences public policy. A driving factor behind this relationship between the government and defense-minded corporations is that both sides benefit—one side from obtaining war weapons, and the other from being paid to supply them. The term is most often used in reference to the system behind the military of the United States, where it is most prevalent and gained popularity after its use in the farewell address of President Dwight D. Eisenhower on January 17, 1961. In 2011, the United States spent more (in absolute numbers) on its military than the next 13 nations combined.\n\nIn the context of the United States, the appellation given to it sometimes is extended to military–industrial–congressional complex (MICC), adding the U.S. Congress to form a three-sided relationship termed an iron triangle. These relationships include political contributions, political approval for military spending, lobbying to support bureaucracies, and oversight of the industry; or more broadly to include the entire network of contracts and flows of money and resources among individuals as well as corporations and institutions of the defense contractors, private military contractors, The Pentagon, the Congress and executive branch.\n\nA similar thesis was originally expressed by Daniel Guérin, in his 1936 book \"Fascism and Big Business\", about the fascist government support to heavy industry. It can be defined as, \"an informal and changing coalition of groups with vested psychological, moral, and material interests in the continuous development and maintenance of high levels of weaponry, in preservation of colonial markets and in military-strategic conceptions of internal affairs.\"\nAn exhibit of the trend was made in Franz Leopold Neumann's book \"\" in 1942, a study of how Nazism came into a position of power in a democratic state.\n\nSuch type of complex, in the First World War, had taken US to the Trading with the Enemy Act of 1917.\n\nPresident of the United States (and five-star general during World War II) Dwight D. Eisenhower used the term in his Farewell Address to the Nation on January 17, 1961:\n\nThe phrase was thought to have been \"war-based\" industrial complex before becoming \"military\" in later drafts of Eisenhower's speech, a claim passed on only by oral history. Geoffrey Perret, in his biography of Eisenhower, claims that, in one draft of the speech, the phrase was \"military–industrial–congressional complex\", indicating the essential role that the United States Congress plays in the propagation of the military industry, but the word \"congressional\" was dropped from the final version to appease the then-currently elected officials. James Ledbetter calls this a \"stubborn misconception\" not supported by any evidence; likewise a claim by Douglas Brinkley that it was originally \"military–industrial–scientific complex\". Additionally, Henry Giroux claims that it was originally \"military–industrial–academic complex\". The actual authors of the speech were Eisenhower's speechwriters Ralph E. Williams and Malcolm Moos.\n\nAttempts to conceptualize something similar to a modern \"military–industrial complex\" existed before Eisenhower's address. Ledbetter finds the precise term used in 1947 in close to its later meaning in an article in \"Foreign Affairs\" by Winfield W. Riefler. In 1956, sociologist C. Wright Mills had claimed in his book \"The Power Elite\" that a class of military, business, and political leaders, driven by mutual interests, were the real leaders of the state, and were effectively beyond democratic control. Friedrich Hayek mentions in his 1944 book \"The Road to Serfdom\" the danger of a support of monopolistic organization of industry from World War II political remnants:\n\nVietnam War–era activists, such as Seymour Melman, referred frequently to the concept, and use continued throughout the Cold War: George F. Kennan wrote in his preface to Norman Cousins's 1987 book \"The Pathology of Power\", \"Were the Soviet Union to sink tomorrow under the waters of the ocean, the American military–industrial complex would have to remain, substantially unchanged, until some other adversary could be invented. Anything else would be an unacceptable shock to the American economy.\"\nIn the late 1990s James Kurth asserted, \"By the mid-1980s ... the term had largely fallen out of public discussion.\" He went on to argue that \"[w]hatever the power of arguments about the influence of the military–industrial complex on weapons procurement during the Cold War, they are much less relevant to the current era\".\n\nContemporary students and critics of American militarism continue to refer to and employ the term, however. For example, historian Chalmers Johnson uses words from the second, third, and fourth paragraphs quoted above from Eisenhower's address as an epigraph to Chapter Two (\"The Roots of American Militarism\") of a recent volume on this subject. P. W. Singer's book concerning private military companies illustrates contemporary ways in which industry, particularly an information-based one, still interacts with the U.S. federal and the Pentagon.\n\nThe expressions permanent war economy and war corporatism are related concepts that have also been used in association with this term. The term is also used to describe comparable collusion in other political entities such as the German Empire (prior to and through the first world war), Britain, France, and (post-Soviet) Russia.\n\nLinguist and anarchist theorist Noam Chomsky has suggested that \"military–industrial complex\" is a misnomer because (as he considers it) the phenomenon in question \"is not specifically military.\" He asserts, \"There is no military–industrial complex: it's just the industrial system operating under one or another pretext (defense was a pretext for a long time).\"\n\nUnited States defense contractors bewailed what they called declining government weapons spending at the end of the Cold War. They saw escalation of tensions, such as with Russia over Ukraine, as new opportunities for increased weapons sales, and have pushed the political system, both directly and through industry lobby groups such as the National Defense Industrial Association, to spend more on military hardware. Pentagon contractor-funded American think tanks such as the Lexington Institute and the Atlantic Council have also demanded increased spending in view of the perceived Russian threat. Independent Western observers such as William Hartung, director of the Arms & Security Project at the Center for International Policy, noted that \"Russian saber-rattling has additional benefits for weapons makers because it has become a standard part of the argument for higher Pentagon spending—even though the Pentagon already has more than enough money to address any actual threat to the United States.\"\n\nThe Military Industrial Complex has gone through three distinct eras in its existence.\n\nFrom 1797 to 1941 the government only relied on civilian industries while the country was actually at war. The government owned their own shipyards and weapons manufacturing facilities which they relied on through World War I. With World War II came a massive shift in the way that the American government armed the military. \n\nWith the onset of World War II President Franklin D. Roosevelt established the War Production Board to coordinate civilian industries and shift them into wartime production. Throughout World War II arms production in the United States went from around one percent of the annual GDP to 40 percent of the GDP. After the end of the war the American government did not dismantle the war machine that they had built. Various American companies, such as Boeing and General Motors, maintained and expanded their defense divisions. These companies have gone on to develop various technologies that have improved civilian life as well such as night-vision goggles, GPS, and the Internet.\n\nThe start of the second era of the Military Industrial Complex is said to start with the coining of the term by President Dwight D. Eisenhower. This era marked the end of the Warsaw Pact and the collapse of the Soviet Union. In 1993 the Pentagon urged defense contractors to consolidate due to the collapse of communism and shrinking defense budget.\n\nThe third era of the Military Industrial Complex has seen the most change as defense contractors either consolidated or shifted their focus to civilian innovation. From 1992 to 1997 there was a total of $55 Billion worth of mergers in the defense industry. Major defense companies purchased smaller defense companies and became the major companies that know today.  The Department of Defense no longer exports technological advancements to the civilian market, they now import many technologies. 3D printing, cloud computing, cybersecurity, and nanotechnology are all examples of the advancements of the civilian technological industry. \n\nThe Pentagon no longer has the budget to award many defense contracts and the research and development budgets of defense contractors is far smaller than private technology companies. The lack of a large budget from the Pentagon has made defense contractors anxious to invest their own profits into research and development as it is unclear whether or not the Pentagon will be able to match their contributions to create intuitive new products. \n\nAccording to SIPRI, total world spending on military expenses in 2009 was $1.531 trillion U.S. dollars. 46.5% of this total, roughly $712 billion U.S. dollars, was spent by the United States. The privatization of the production and invention of military technology also leads to a complicated relationship with significant research and development of many technologies. The military budget of the United States for the 2009 fiscal year was $515.4 billion. Adding emergency discretionary spending and supplemental spending, brings the sum to $651.2 billion. This does not include many military-related items that are outside of the Defense Department budget. Overall the U.S. federal government is spending about $1 trillion annually on defense-related purposes.\n\nIn a 2012 story, \"Salon\" reported, \"Despite a decline in global arms sales in 2010 due to recessionary pressures, the United States increased its market share, accounting for a whopping 53 percent of the trade that year. Last year saw the United States on pace to deliver more than $46 billion in foreign arms sales.\" The defense industry also tends to contribute heavily to incumbent members of Congress.\n\nThe concept of a military–industrial complex has been expanded to include the entertainment and creative industries. For an example in practice, Matthew Brummer describes Japan's Manga Military and how the Ministry of Defense uses popular culture and the moe that it engenders to shape domestic and international perceptions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "93825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93825", "title": "Monsanto", "text": "Monsanto\n\nThe Monsanto Company () was an American agrochemical and agricultural biotechnology corporation that existed from 1901 until 2018 when it was acquired by Bayer. It was headquartered in Creve Coeur, Missouri. Monsanto developed Roundup, a glyphosate-based herbicide in the 1970s, and became a major producer of genetically engineered crops.\n\nMonsanto was one of four groups to introduce genes into plants (1983), and was among the first to conduct field trials of genetically modified crops, (1987). It was one of the top 10 U.S. chemical companies until it divested most of its chemical businesses between 1997 and 2002, through a process of mergers and spin-offs that focused the company on biotechnology. Monsanto was one of the first companies to apply the biotechnology industry business model to agriculture, using techniques developed by biotech drug companies. In this business model, companies recoup R&D expenses by exploiting biological patents.\n\nMonsanto's roles in agricultural changes, biotechnology products and lobbying of government agencies and roots as a chemical company resulted in controversies. The company once manufactured controversial products such as the insecticide DDT, PCBs, Agent Orange and recombinant bovine growth hormone. Its seed patenting model was criticized as biopiracy and a threat to biodiversity.\n\nIn September 2016, Bayer announced its intent to acquire Monsanto for US$66 billion. After gaining US and EU regulatory approval, the sale was completed on June 7, 2018.\n\nIn 1901 Monsanto was founded in St. Louis, Missouri, as a chemical company. The founder was John Francis Queeny, a 30‑year veteran of the nascent pharmaceutical industry. He funded the firm with his own money and capital from a soft drink distributor. He used his wife's maiden name for the company. The company's first products were commodity food additives, such as the artificial sweetener saccharin, caffeine and vanillin.\n\nMonsanto expanded to Europe in 1919 in a partnership with Graesser's Chemical Works at Cefn Mawr, Wales. The venture produced vanillin, aspirin and its raw ingredient salicylic acid, and later rubber processing chemicals. In the 1920s, Monsanto expanded into basic industrial chemicals such as sulfuric acid and PCBs. Queeny's son Edgar Monsanto Queeny took over the company in 1928. In 1926 the company founded and incorporated a town called Monsanto in Illinois (now known as Sauget). It was formed to provide minimal regulation and low taxes for Monsanto plants at a time when local jurisdictions had most of the responsibility for environmental rules. It was renamed in honor of Leo Sauget, its first village president.\n\nIn 1935, Monsanto bought the Swann Chemical Company in Anniston, Alabama, and thereby entered the business of producing PCBs.\n\nIn 1936, Monsanto acquired Thomas & Hochwalt Laboratories in Dayton, Ohio, to acquire the expertise of Charles Allen Thomas and Carroll A. Hochwalt. The acquisition became Monsanto's Central Research Department. Thomas spent the rest of his career at Monsanto, serving as President (1951–1960) and Board Chair (1960–1965). He retired in 1970. In 1943, Thomas was called to a meeting in Washington, D.C., with Leslie Groves, commander of the Manhattan Project, and James Conant, president of Harvard University and chairman of the National Defense Research Committee (NDRC). They urged Thomas to become co-director of the Manhattan Project at Los Alamos with Robert Oppenheimer, but Thomas was reluctant to leave Dayton and Monsanto. He joined the NDRC, and Monsanto's Central Research Department began to conduct related research. To that end, Monsanto operated the Dayton Project, and later Mound Laboratories, and assisted in the development of the first nuclear weapons.\n\nIn 1946, Monsanto developed and marketed \"All\" laundry detergent, which they sold to Lever Brothers in 1957. In 1947, its styrene factory was destroyed in the Texas City Disaster. In 1949, Monsanto acquired American Viscose from Courtaulds. In 1954, Monsanto partnered with German chemical giant Bayer to form Mobay and market polyurethanes in the United States.\n\nMonsanto began manufacturing DDT in 1944, along with some 15 other companies. This insecticide was critical to the fight against malaria-transmitting mosquitoes. Due to DDT's toxicity, it was banned in the United States in 1972. In 1977, Monsanto stopped producing PCBs; Congress banned PCB production two years later.\n\nIn the mid‑1960s, William Standish Knowles and his team invented a way to selectively synthesize enantiomers via asymmetric hydrogenation. This was the first method for the catalytic production of pure chiral compounds. Knowles' team designed the \"first industrial process to chirally synthesize an important compound\"—L‑dopa, which is used to treat Parkinson's disease. In 2001, Knowles and Ryōji Noyori won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. In the mid-1960s, chemists at Monsanto developed the Monsanto process for making acetic acid, which until 2000 was the most widely used production method. In 1964, Monsanto chemists invented AstroTurf (initially ChemGrass).\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Monsanto was a producer of Agent Orange for United States Armed Forces operations in Vietnam, and settled out of court in a lawsuit brought by veterans in 1984. In 1968, it became the first company to start mass production of (visible) light-emitting diodes (LEDs), using gallium arsenide phosphide. From 1968 to 1970, sales doubled every few months. Their products (discrete LEDs and seven-segment numeric displays) became industry standards. The primary markets then were electronic calculators, digital watches and digital clocks. Monsanto became a pioneer of optoelectronics in the 1970s. Between 1968 and 1974, the company sponsored the PGA Tour event in Pensacola, Florida, which was renamed the Monsanto Open.\n\nIn 1974, Harvard University and Monsanto signed a 10-year research grant to support the cancer research of Judah Folkman, which became the largest such arrangement ever made; medical inventions arising from that research were the first for which Harvard allowed its faculty to submit patent application.\n\nMonsanto scientists were among the first to genetically modify a plant cell, publishing their results in 1983. Five years later the company conducted the first field tests of genetically modified crops. Increasing involvement in agricultural biotechnology dates from the installment of Richard Mahoney as Monsanto's CEO in 1983. This involvement increased under the leadership of Robert Shapiro, appointed CEO in 1995, leading ultimately to the disposition of product lines unrelated to agriculture.\n\nIn 1985, Monsanto acquired G. D. Searle & Company, a life sciences company that focused on pharmaceuticals, agriculture and animal health. In 1993, its Searle division filed a patent application for Celebrex, which in 1998 became the first selective COX‑2 inhibitor to be approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Celebrex became a blockbuster drug and was often mentioned as a key reason for Pfizer's acquisition of Monsanto's pharmaceutical business in 2002.\n\nIn 1994, Monsanto introduced a recombinant version of bovine somatotropin, brand-named Posilac. Monsanto later sold this business to Eli Lilly and Company.\n\nIn 1996, Monsanto purchased Agracetus, the biotechnology company that had generated the first transgenic cotton, soybeans, peanuts and other crops, and from which Monsanto had been licensing technology since 1991.\n\nMonsanto first entered the maize seed business when it purchased 40% of Dekalb in 1996; it purchased the remainder of the corporation in 1998. In 1997, the company first published an annual report citing Monsanto's Law, a biotechnological take on Moore's Law, indicating its future directions and exponential growth in the use of biotechnology. In 1998, Monsanto purchased Cargill's international seed business, which gave it access to sales and distribution facilities in 51 countries. In 2005, it finalized the purchase of Seminis Inc, a leading global vegetable and fruit seed company, for $1.4 billion. This made it the world's largest conventional seed company.\n\nIn 1999 Monsanto sold off NutraSweet Co. In December of the same year, Monsanto agreed to merge with Pharmacia & Upjohn, in a deal valuing the transaction at $27 billion. The agricultural division became a wholly owned subsidiary of the \"new\" Pharmacia; Monsanto's medical research division, which included products such as Celebrex.\n\nIn 2000: Pharmacia spun off its agro-biotech subsidiary into a new company, the \"new Monsanto\", focused on four key agricultural crops—soybeans, maize, wheat and cotton. Monsanto agreed to indemnify Pharmacia against potential liabilities from judgments against Solutia. As a result, the new Monsanto continued to be a party to numerous lawsuits over the prior Monsanto. Pharmacia was bought by Pfizer in 2003.)\n\nIn 2005 Monsanto acquired Emergent Genetics and its Stoneville and NexGen cotton brands. Emergent was the third largest U.S. cotton seed company, with about 12% of the U.S. market. Monsanto's goal was to obtain \"a strategic cotton germplasm and traits platform.\" \n\nAlso in 2005, Monsanto purchased Seminis, the California-based world leader in vegetable seed production, for $1.4 billion. Seminis developed new vegetable varieties using advanced cross-pollination methods. Monsanto indicated that Seminis would continue with non-GM development, while not ruling out GM in the longer term.\n\nIn June 2007, Monsanto purchased Delta and Pine Land Company, a major cotton seed breeder, for $1.5 billion. As a condition for approval from the Department of Justice, Monsanto was obligated to divest its Stoneville cotton business, which it sold to Bayer, and to divest its NexGen cotton business, which it sold to Americot. Monsanto also exited the pig-breeding business by selling Monsanto Choice Genetics to Newsham Genetics LC in November, divesting itself of \"any and all swine-related patents, patent applications, and all other intellectual property\". In 2007, Monsanto and BASF announced a long-term agreement to cooperate in the research, development, and marketing of new plant biotechnology products.\n\nIn 2008, Monsanto purchased Dutch seed company De Ruiter Seeds for €546 million, and sold its POSILAC bovine somatotropin brand and related business to Elanco Animal Health, a division of Eli Lilly & Co, in August for $300 million plus \"additional contingent consideration\".\n\nIn 2012 Monsanto purchased for $210 million Precision Planting Inc., a company that produced computer hardware and software designed to enable farmers to increase yield and productivity through more precise planting.\n\nIn 2013 Monsanto purchased San Francisco-based Climate Corp for $930 million. Climate Corp. makes local weather forecasts for farmers based on data modelling and historical data; if the forecasts were wrong, the farmer was compensated. \n\nIn 2015 Monsanto tried to acquire Swiss agro-biotechnology rival, Syngenta, for US$46.5 billion, but failed. In 2015 Monsanto was the world's biggest supplier of seeds, controlling 26% of the global seed market (Du Pont was second with 21%). Monsanto is the only manufacturer of white phosphorus for military use in the US.\n\nIn September 2016, Monsanto agreed to be acquired by Bayer for US$66 billion. In an effort to receive regulatory clearance for the deal, Bayer announced the sale of significant portions of its current agriculture businesses, including its seed and herbicide businesses, to BASF.\n\nThe deal was approved by the European Union on March 21, 2018, and approved in the United States on May 29, 2018. The sale closed on June 7, 2018; Bayer announced its intent to discontinue the Monsanto name, with the combined company operating solely under the Bayer brand.\n\nFollowing its 1970 introduction, Monsanto's last commercially relevant United States patent on the herbicide glyphosate (brand name RoundUp) expired in 2000. Glyphosate has since been marketed by many agrochemical companies, in various solution strengths and with various adjuvants, under dozens of tradenames. As of 2009, glyphosate represented about 10% of Monsanto's revenue. Roundup-related products (which include genetically modified seeds) represented about half of Monsanto's gross margin.\n\nAs of 2015, Monsanto's line of seed products included corn, cotton, soy and vegetable seeds.\n\nMany of Monsanto's agricultural seed products are genetically modified, such as for resistance to herbicides, including glyphosate and dicamba. Monsanto calls glyphosate-tolerant seeds \"Roundup Ready\". Monsanto's introduction of this system (planting a glyphosate-resistant seed and then applying glyphosate once plants emerged) allowed farmers to increase yield by planting rows closer together. Without it, farmers had to plant rows far enough apart to allow the control of post-emergent weeds with mechanical tillage. Farmers widely adopted the technology—for example over 80% of maize (Mon 832), soybean (MON-Ø4Ø32-6), cotton, sugar beet and canola planted in the United States are glyphosate-tolerant. Monsanto developed a Roundup Ready genetically modified wheat (MON 71800) but ended development in 2004 due to concerns from wheat exporters about the rejection of genetically modified (GM) wheat by foreign markets.\n\nTwo patents were critical to Monsanto's GM soybean business; one expired in 2011 and the other in 2014. The second expiration meant that glyphosate resistant soybeans became \"generic\". The first harvest of generic glyphosate-tolerant soybeans came in 2015. Monsanto broadly licensed the patent to other seed companies that include glyphosate resistance trait in their seed products. About 150 companies have licensed the technology, including competitors Syngenta and DuPont Pioneer.\n\nMonsanto invented and sells genetically modified seeds that make a crystalline insecticidal protein from \"Bacillus thuringiensis\", known as Bt. In 1995 Monsanto's potato plants producing Bt toxin were approved by the Environmental Protection Agency, following approval by the FDA, making it the first pesticide-producing crop to be approved in the United States. Monsanto subsequently developed Bt maize (MON 802, MON 809, MON 863, MON 810), Bt soybean and Bt cotton.\n\nMonsanto produces seed that has multiple genetic modifications, also known as \"stacked traits\"—for instance, cotton that make one or more Bt proteins and is resistant to glyphosate. One of these, created in collaboration with Dow Chemical Company, is called SmartStax. In 2011 Monsanto launched the Genuity brand for its stacked-trait products.\n\nAs of 2012, the agricultural seed lineup included \"Roundup Ready\" alfalfa, canola and sugarbeet; Bt and/or \"Roundup Ready\" cotton; sorghum hybrids; soybeans with various oil profiles, most with the \"Roundup Ready\" trait; and a wide range of wheat products, many of which incorporate the nontransgenic \"clearfield\" imazamox-tolerant trait from BASF.\n\nIn 2013 Monsanto launched the first transgenic drought tolerance trait in a line of corn hybrids branded DroughtGard. The MON 87460 trait is provided by the insertion of the cspB gene from the soil microbe \"Bacillus subtilis\"; it was approved by the USDA in 2011 and by China in 2013.\n\nThe \"Xtend Crop System\" includes seed genetically modified to be resistant to both glyphosate and dicamba, and a herbicide product including those two active ingredients. In December 2014, the system was approved for use in the US. In February 2016, China approved the Roundup Ready 2 Xtend system. The lack of European Union approval led many American traders to reject the use of Xtend soybeans over concerns that the new seeds would become mixed with EU-approved seeds, leading Europe to reject American soybean exports.\n\nIn 2009, Monsanto scientists discovered insects that had developed resistance to the Bt Cotton planted in Gujarat. Monsanto communicated this to the Indian government and its customers, stating that \"Resistance is natural and expected, so measures to delay resistance are important. Among the factors that may have contributed to pink bollworm resistance to the Cry1Ac protein in Bollgard I in Gujarat are limited refuge planting and early use of unapproved Bt cotton seed, planted prior to GEAC approval of Bollgard I cotton, which may have had lower protein expression levels.\" The company advised farmers to switch to its second generation of Bt cotton – Bolguard II – which had two resistance genes instead of one. However, this advice was criticized: \"an internal analysis of the statement of the Ministry of Environment and Forests says it 'appears that this could be a business strategy to phase out single gene events [that is, the first-generation Bollgard I product] and promote double genes [the second generation Bollgard II] which would fetch higher price.'\"\n\nMonsanto's GM cotton seed was the subject of NGO agitation because of its higher cost. Indian farmers crossed GM varieties with local varieties, using plant breeding, violating their agreements with Monsanto. In 2009, high prices of Bt Cotton were blamed for forcing farmers of Jhabua district into debt when the crops died due to lack of rain.\n\nIn 2012 Monsanto was the world's largest supplier of non-GE vegetable seeds by value, with sales of $800M. 95% of the research and development for vegetable seed is in conventional breeding. The company concentrates on improving flavor. According to their website they sell \"4,000 distinct seed varieties representing more than 20 species\". Broccoli, with the brand name \"Beneforté\", with increased amounts of glucoraphanin was introduced in 2010 following development by its Seminis subsidiary.\n\nUntil it ended production in 1977, Monsanto was the source of 99% of the polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) used by U.S. industry. They were sold under brand names including Aroclor and Santotherm; the name Santotherm is still used for non-chlorinated products. PCBs are a persistent organic pollutant, and cause cancer in both animal and humans, among other health effects. PCBs were initially welcomed due to the electrical industry's need for durable, safer (than flammable mineral oil) cooling and insulating fluid for industrial transformers and capacitors. PCBs were also commonly used as stabilizing additives in the manufacture of flexible PVC coatings for electrical wiring and in electronic components to enhance PVC heat and fire resistance. As transformer leaks occurred and toxicity problems arose near factories, their durability and toxicity became recognized as serious problems. PCB production was banned by the U.S. Congress in 1979 and by the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants in 2001.\n\nMonsanto, Dow Chemical, and eight other chemical companies made Agent Orange for the U.S. Department of Defense. It was given its name from the color of the orange-striped barrels in which it was shipped, and was by far the most widely used of the so-called \"Rainbow Herbicides\".\n\nMonsanto developed and sold recombinant bovine somatotropin (also known as rBST and rBGH), a synthetic hormone that increases milk production by 11–16% when injected into cows. In October 2008, Monsanto sold this business to Eli Lilly for $300 million plus additional considerations.\n\nThe use of rBST remains controversial with respect to its effects on cows and their milk.\n\nIn some markets, milk from cows that are not treated with rBST is sold with labels indicating that it is rBST-free: this milk has proved popular with consumers. In reaction to this, in early 2008 a pro-rBST advocacy group called \"American Farmers for the Advancement and Conservation of Technology\" (AFACT), made up of dairies and originally affiliated with Monsanto, formed and began lobbying to ban such labels. AFACT stated that \"absence\" labels can be misleading and imply that milk from cows treated with rBST is inferior.\n\nMonsanto also developed notable technologies that were not ultimately commercialized.\n\nGenetic use restriction technology, colloquially known as \"terminator technology\", produces plants with sterile seeds. This trait would prevent the spread of those seeds into the wild. It also would prevent farmers from planting seeds they harvest, requiring them to purchase seed for every planting, allowing the company to enforce its licensing terms via technology. Farmers have been buying hybrid seeds for generations, instead of replanting their harvest, because second-generation hybrid seeds are inferior. Nevertheless, most seed companies contract only with farmers who agree not to plant harvested seeds.\n\nTerminator technology has been developed by governmental labs, university researchers and companies. The technology has not been used commercially. Rumors that Monsanto and other companies intended to introduce terminator technology caused protests, for example in India.\n\nIn 1999, Monsanto pledged not to commercialize terminator technology. The Delta & Pine Land Company of Mississippi intended to commercialize the technology, but D&PL was acquired by Monsanto in 2007.\n\nMonsanto developed several strains of genetically modified wheat, including glyphosate-resistant strains, in the 1990s. Field tests were done in the United States between 1998 and 2005. As of 2017, no genetically modified wheat has been released for commercial use.\n\nMonsanto is internationally notable for its involvement in high-profile lawsuits, as both plaintiff and defendant. It defended lawsuits mostly over its products' health and environmental effects. Monsanto used the courts to enforce its patents, particularly in agricultural biotechnology, an approach similar to that of other companies in the field, such as Dupont Pioneer and Syngenta. Monsanto also became one of the most vilified large corporations in the world, over a range of issues involving its industrial and agricultural chemical products, and GM seed. In April, 2018, just prior to Bayer's acquisition, Bayer indicated that improving Monsanto's reputation represented a major challenge. That June, Bayer announced it would drop the Monsanto name as part of a campaign to regain consumer trust. \n\nArgentina approved \"Roundup Ready\" soy in 1996. Between 1996 and 2008 soy production grew from 14 million acres to 42 million acres. The growth was driven by Argentine investors' interest in export markets. The consolidation led to a decrease in production of many staples such as milk, rice, maize, potatoes and lentils. As of 2004 about 150,000 small farmers had left the countryside; including 50% as of 2009 in the Chaco region.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported that a Monsanto representative had said, \"any problems with GM soya were to do with use of the crop as a monoculture, not because it was GM. If you grow any crop to the exclusion of any other you are bound to get problems.\"\n\nIn 2005 and 2006, Monsanto attempted to enforce its patents on soymeal imported into Spain from Argentina by having Spanish customs officials seize the soymeal shipments. This has been an attempt made by Monsanto to put pressure on the Argentinian government for allowing them to enforce their seed patents in Argentina as well.\n\nIn 2013 environmentalist groups objected to a Monsanto corn seed conditioning facility in Malvinas Argentinas, Córdoba. Neighbours objected to the risk of environmental impact. Court rulings supported the project, but environmentalist groups organised demonstrations and opened an online petition for the subject to be decided in a popular referendum. The court rulings stipulated that while construction could continue, the facility could not begin operating until the environmental impact report required by law had been duly presented.\n\nIn 2016 Monsanto reached an agreement with Argentina's government on soybean seed royalty payments. Monsanto agreed to give the Argentine Seed Institute (Inase) oversight over crops grown from Monsanto's Intacta genetically modified soybean seeds. Before the agreement, Argentine farmers generally avoided royalties by using seeds from previous harvests or purchased from non-registered suppliers. Inase agreed to delegate testing to grain exchanges. About 6 million sample tests were to be conducted annually. Seeds that appear to be GMOs may be tested again using a polymerase chain reaction test.\n\nBrazil is the second largest producer of GMO soy. Expanding soy cultivation led to large-scale deforestation and displacement of small-scale rural farmers. Brazil approved GM crops in 1998, but advocacy groups successfully sued to overturn the approval. In 2003 Brazil allowed a one-year exemption when GM soy was found in fields planted in the state of Rio Grande do Sul. This was a controversial decision, and in response, the Landless Workers' Movement protested by invading and occupying several Monsanto farm plots used for research, training and seed-processing. In 2005 Brazil passed a law creating a regulatory pathway for GM crops. Agriculture minister Roberto Rodrigues stated, \"Brazilian soy farmers, who have used cloned or smuggled versions of the biotechnology company's Roundup Ready variety for years, will no longer have to worry about breaking the law or facing legal action from Monsanto as long as regulators approve the seeds for planting.\"\n\nMonsanto was criticized by Chinese economist Larry Lang for controlling the Chinese soybean market, and for trying to do the same to Chinese corn and cotton.\n\nIn the late 1990s and early 2000s, public attention was drawn to suicides by indebted farmers following crop failures. For example, in the early 2000s, farmers in Andhra Pradesh (AP) were in economic crisis due to high-interest rates and crop failures, leading to widespread unrest and farmer suicides. Monsanto was one focus of protests with respect to the price and yields of Bt seed. In 2005, the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee, the Indian regulatory authority, released a study on field tests of certain Bt cotton strains in AP and ruled that Monsanto could not market those strains in AP because of poor yields. At about the same time, the state agriculture minister barred the company from selling Bt cotton seed, because Monsanto refused a request by the state government to provide pay about Rs 4.5 crore (about one million US$) to indebted farmers in some districts, and because the government blamed Monsanto's seeds for crop failures. The order was later lifted.\n\nIn 2006, AP tried to convince Monsanto to reduce the price of Bt seeds. Unsatisfied, the state filed several cases against Monsanto and its Mumbai-based licensee, Maharashtra Hybrid Seeds. Research by International Food Policy Research Institute found no evidence supporting an increased suicide rate following the introduction of Bt cotton and that Bt cotton. The report stated that farmer suicides predated commercial introduction in 2002 (and unofficial introduction in 2001) and that such suicides had made up a fairly constant portion of the overall national suicide rate since 1997. The report concluded that while Bt cotton may have been a factor in specific suicides, the contribution was likely marginal compared to socio-economic factors. As of 2009, Bt cotton was planted in 87% of Indian cotton-growing land.\n\nCritics including Vandana Shiva said that the crop failures could \"often be traced to\" Monsanto's Bt cotton, that the seeds increased farmer indebtedness and argued that Monsanto misrepresented the profitability of their Bt Cotton, causing losses leading to debt. In 2009, Shiva wrote that Indian farmers who had previously spent as little as ₹7 (rupees) per kilogram were now paying up to ₹17,000 per kilo per year for Bt cotton. In 2012 the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and the Central Cotton Research Institute (CCRI) stated that for the first time farmer suicides could be linked to a decline in the performance of Bt cotton, and advised, \"cotton farmers are in a deep crisis since shifting to Bt cotton. The spate of farmer suicides in 2011–12 has been particularly severe among Bt cotton farmers.\"\n\nIn 2004, in response to an order from the Bombay High Court the Tata Institute produced a report on farmer suicides in Maharashtra in 2005. The survey cited \"government apathy, the absence of a safety net for farmers, and lack of access to information related to agriculture as the chief causes for the desperate condition of farmers in the state.\"\n\nVarious studies identified the important factors as insufficient or risky credit systems, the difficulty of farming semi-arid regions, poor agricultural income, absence of alternative income opportunities, a downturn in the urban economy which forced non-farmers into farming and the absence of suitable counseling services. ICAR and CCRI stated that the cost of cotton cultivation had jumped as a consequence of rising pesticide costs, while total Bt cotton production in the five years from 2007 to 2012 had declined.\n\nBrofiscin Quarry was used as a waste site from about 1965 to 1972 and accepted waste from BP, Veolia and Monsanto. A 2005 report by Environmental Agency Wales (EAW) found that the quarry contained up to 75 toxic substances, including heavy metals, Agent Orange and PCBs.\n\nIn February 2011, Monsanto agreed to help with the costs of remediation, but did not accept responsibility for the pollution. In 2011, EAW and the Rhondda Cynon Taf council announced that they had decided to place an engineered cap over the waste mass, and stated that the cost would be £1.5 million; previous estimates had been as high as £100 million.\n\nIn the late 1960s, the Monsanto plant in Sauget, Illinois, was the nation's largest producer of PCBs, which remained in the water along Dead Creek there. An EPA official referred to Sauget as \"one of the most polluted communities in the region\" and \"a soup of different chemicals\".\n\nIn Anniston, Alabama, plaintiffs in a 2002 lawsuit provided documentation showing that the local Monsanto factory knowingly discharged both mercury and PCB-laden waste into local creeks for over 40 years. In 1969 Monsanto dumped 45 tons of PCBs into Snow Creek, a feeder for Choccolocco Creek, which supplies much of the area's drinking water, and buried millions of pounds of PCB in open-pit landfills located on hillsides above the plant and surrounding neighborhoods. In August 2003, Solutia and Monsanto agreed to pay plaintiffs $700 million to settle claims by over 20,000 Anniston residents.\n\nAs of November 2013, Monsanto was associated with nine \"active\" Superfund sites and 32 \"archived\" sites in the US, in the EPA's Superfund database. Monsanto was sued and settled multiple times for damaging the health of its employees or residents near its Superfund sites through pollution and poisoning.\n\nIn 2013 a Monsanto-developed strain of glyphosate-resistant wheat (a GMO) was discovered on a farm in Oregon, growing as a weed or \"volunteer plant\". The final Oregon field test had occurred in 2001. As of May 2013, the GMO seed source was unknown. Volunteer wheat from a former test field two miles away was tested and was not found to be glyphosate-tolerant. Monsanto faced penalties up to $1 million over potential violations of the Plant Protection Act. The discovery threatened world-leading US wheat exports, which totaled $8.1 billion in 2012. This wheat variety was rarely exported to Europe and was more likely destined for Asia. Monsanto said it had destroyed all the material it held after completing trials in 2004 and it was \"mystified\" by its appearance. On June 14, 2013, the USDA announced: \"As of today, USDA has neither found nor been informed of anything that would indicate that this incident amounts to more than a single isolated incident in a single field on a single farm. All information collected so far shows no indication of the presence of GE wheat in commerce.\" As of August 30, 2013, while the source of the GM wheat remained unknown, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan had all resumed placing orders.\n\nMonsanto has faced controversy in the United States over claims that its herbicide products might be carcinogens. There is limited evidence that human cancer risk might increase as a result of occupational exposure to large amounts of glyphosate, as in agricultural work, but no good evidence of such a risk from home use, such as in domestic gardening. The consensus among national pesticide regulatory agencies and scientific organizations is that labeled uses of glyphosate have demonstrated no evidence of human carcinogenicity. Organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Food and Agriculture Organization, European Commission, Canadian Pest Management Regulatory Agency, and the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment have concluded that there is no evidence that glyphosate poses a carcinogenic or genotoxic risk to humans. Only one international scientific organization, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), affiliated with the WHO, has made claims of carcinogenicity in research reviews. The IARC has been criticized for its assessment methodology by failing to consider the broad literature and only assessing hazard rather than risk.\n\nOver 8,000 cancer patients are suing Monsanto in numerous state courts for failure to warn the public about the risk of cancer associated with the glyphosate-based weedkiller Roundup after the IARC report in 2015 linking glyphosate to cancer in humans. Monsanto denies that Roundup is carcinogenic.\n\nIn March 2017, 40 plaintiffs filed a lawsuit at the Alameda County Superior Court, a branch of the California Superior Court, asking for damages caused by the company’s glyphosate-based weed-killers, including Roundup, and demanding a jury trial. On August 10, 2018, Monsanto lost the first decided case. Dewayne Johnson, who has non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, was initially awarded $289 million dollars in damages after a jury in San Francisco said that Monsanto had failed to adequately warn consumers of cancer risks posed by the herbicide, but the award pending appeal was later reduced to $78.5 million dollars. In November 2018, Monsanto appealed the judgement asking an appellate court to consider a motion for a new trial.\n\nA worldwide protest against Monsanto and GMOs took place on May 25, 2013. The number of protesters who took part is uncertain; figures of \"hundreds of thousands\" or \"two million\" were variously cited. According to organizers, protesters in 436 cities and 52 countries took part.\n\nOrganizers planned a second day of protests in May 2014, and in a statement released before the event said that millions of activists would join marches in over 400 cities in 52 countries on six continents. The day of protest took place on May 24.\n\nFrom 2009 to 2011, Monsanto improperly accounted for incentive rebates. The actions inflated Monsanto's reported profit by $31 million over the two years. Monsanto paid $80 million in penalties pursuant to a subsequent settlement with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. Monsanto materially misstated its consolidated earnings in response to losing market share of Roundup to generic producers. Monsanto overhauled its internal controls. Two of their top CPAs were suspended and Monsanto was required to hire, at their expense, an independent ethics/compliance consultant for two years.\n\nA review of glyphosate's carcinogenic potential by four independent expert panels, with a comparison to the IARC assessment, was published in September 2016. Using emails released in August 2017 by plaintiffs' lawyers who are suing Monsanto, \"Bloomberg Business Week\" reported that \"Monsanto scientists were heavily involved in organizing, reviewing, and editing drafts submitted by the outside experts.\" A Monsanto spokesperson responded that Monsanto had provided only non-substantive cosmetic copyediting.\n\nMonsanto regularly lobbies the US government with expenses reaching $8.8 million in 2008 and $6.3 million in 2011. In comparison, the 20th highest spender, Pfizer, spent $12.9 million. $2 million was spent on matters concerning \"Foreign Agriculture Biotechnology Laws, Regulations, and Trade\". Some US diplomats in Europe at other times worked directly for Monsanto.\n\nMonsanto made political contributions of $186,250 to federal candidates in the 2008 election cycle through its political action committee (PAC) (42% to Democrats, 58% to Republicans) and $305,749 in the 2010 election cycle (48% Democrat, 52% Republicans).\n\nCalifornia's 2012 Proposition 37 would have mandated the disclosure of genetically modified crops used in the production of California food products. Monsanto spent $8.1 million opposing passage, making it the largest contributor against the initiative. The proposition was rejected by a 53.7% majority. Labeling is not required in the US.\n\nIn 2009 Michael R. Taylor, food safety expert and former Monsanto VP for Public Policy became a Senior Advisor to the FDA Commissioner.\n\nMonsanto is a member of the Washington D.C based Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), the world's largest biotechnology trade association, which provides \"advocacy, business development, and communications services.\" Between 2010 and 2011 BIO spent a total of $16.43 million on lobbying.\n\nThe Monsanto Company Citizenship Fund aka Monsanto Citizenship Fund is a political action committee that donated over $10 million to various candidates from 2003 to 2013.\n\nAs of October 2013, Monsanto and DuPont Co. continued backing an anti-labeling campaign, spending roughly $18 million. The state of Washington, along with 26 other states, made proposals in November to require GMO labeling.\n\nIn the US regulatory environment, many individuals move back and forth between positions in the public and private sectors, including at Monsanto. Critics argued that the connections between the company and the government allowed Monsanto to obtain favorable regulations at the expense of consumer safety. Supporters of the practice point to the benefits of competent and experienced individuals in both sectors and to the importance of appropriately managing potential conflicts of interest. The list of such people includes:\n\n\nDuring the late 1990s, Monsanto lobbied to raise permitted glyphosate levels in soybeans and was successful in convincing Codex Alimentarius and both the UK and US governments to lift levels 200 times to 20 milligrams per kilogram of soya. When asked how negotiations with Monsanto were conducted, Lord Donoughue, then the Labour Party Agriculture minister in the House of Lords, stated that all information relating to the matter would be \"kept secret\". During the 24 months prior to the 1997 British election Monsanto representatives had 22 meetings at the departments of Agriculture and the Environment. Stanley Greenberg, an election advisor to Tony Blair, later worked as a Monsanto consultant. Former Labour spokesperson David Hill, became Monsanto's media adviser at the lobbying firm Bell Pottinger. The Labour government was challenged in Parliament about \"trips, facilities, gifts and other offerings of financial value provided by Monsanto to civil servants\", but only acknowledged that Department of Trade and Industry had two working lunches with Monsanto. Peter Luff, then a Conservative Party MP and Chairman of the Agriculture Select Committee, received up to £10,000 a year from Bell Pottinger on behalf of Monsanto.\n\nIn January 2011, WikiLeaks documents suggested that US diplomats in Europe responded to a request for help from the Spanish government. One report stated, \"In addition, the cables show US diplomats working directly for GM companies such as Monsanto. 'In response to recent urgent requests by [Spanish rural affairs ministry] state secretary Josep Puxeu and Monsanto, post requests renewed US government support of Spain's science-based agricultural biotechnology position through high-level US government intervention.'\" The leaked documents showed that in 2009, when the Spanish government's policy approving MON810 was under pressure from EU interests, Monsanto's Director for Biotechnology for Spain and Portugal requested that the US government support Spain on the matter. The leaks indicated that Spain and the US had worked closely together to \"persuade the EU not to strengthen biotechnology laws\". Spain was viewed as a key GMO supporter and a leading indicator of support across the continent. The leaks also revealed that in response to an attempt by France to ban MON810 in late 2007, then-US ambassador to France, Craig Roberts Stapleton, asked Washington to \"calibrate a targeted retaliation list that [would cause] some pain across the EU\", targeting countries that did not support the use of GM crops. This activity transpired after the US, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico and New Zealand had brought an action against Europe via the World Trade Organization with respect to the EU's banning of GMOs; in 2006, the WTO had ruled against the EU.\n\nMonsanto was a member of EuropaBio, the leading biotechnology trade group in Europe. One of EuropaBio's initiatives is \"Transforming Europe's position on GM food\". It found \"an urgent need to reshape the terms of the debate about GM in Europe\". EuropaBio proposed the recruitment of high-profile \"ambassadors\" to lobby EU officials.\n\nIn September 2017 Monsanto lobbyists were banned from the European parliament after the Monsanto refused to attend a parliamentary hearing into allegations of regulatory interference.\n\nAfter the 2010 Haiti earthquake, Monsanto donated $255,000 for disaster relief and 60,000 seed sacks (475 tons) of hybrid (non-GM) corn and vegetable seeds worth $4 million. However, a Catholic Relief Services (CRS) rapid assessment of seed supply and demand for the five most common food security crops found that the Haitians had enough seed and recommended that imported seeds be introduced only on a small scale. Emmanuel Prophete, head of Haiti's Ministry of Agriculture's Service National Semencier (SNS), stated that SNS was not opposed to the hybrid maize seeds because they at least double yields. Louise Sperling, Principal Researcher at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) told HGW that she was not opposed to hybrids, but noted that most hybrids required extra water and better soils and that most of Haiti was not appropriate for hybrids.\n\nActivists objected that some of the seeds were coated with the fungicides Maxim or thiram. In the United States, pesticides containing thiram are banned in home garden products because most home gardeners do not have adequate protection. Activists wrote that the coated seeds were handled in a dangerous manner by the recipients.\n\nThe donated seeds were sold at a reduced price in local markets. However, farmers feared that they were being given seeds that would \"threaten local varieties\" and an estimated 8,000–12,000 farmers attended a protest of the donation on June 4, 2010, organized by a Haitian farmers' association, the Peasant Movement of Papay, where a small pile of seeds was symbolically burned.\n\nMonsanto has engaged in various public relations campaigns to improve its image and public perception of some of its products. These include developing a relationship with scientist Richard Doll with respect to Agent Orange. Other campaigns include the joint funding with other biotech companies for the website GMO Answers.\n\n\nIn 2009 Monsanto was chosen as \"Forbes\" magazine's company of the year. In 2010 Swiss research firm Covalence rated Monsanto least ethical of 581 multinational corporations based on their EthicalQuote reputation tracking index which \"aggregates thousands of positive and negative news items published by the media, companies, and stakeholders\". without attempt to validate sources. The journal \"Science\" ranked Monsanto in its Top 20 Employers list between 2011 and 2014. In 2012, it described the company as \"innovative leader in the industry\", \"makes changes needed\" and \"does important quality research\". Monsanto executive Robert Fraley won the World Food Prize for \"breakthrough achievements in founding, developing, and applying modern agricultural biotechnology\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27742234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27742234", "title": "Mubarak Alhammad", "text": "Mubarak Alhammad\n\nMubarak Alhammad is a Saudi human resource development consultant and a professor of educational administration at King Saud University in Riyadh.\n\nMubarak Alhammad was born in 1956 in the village of Wadi ad-Dawasir, Saudi Arabia. He received his bachelor's degree in Islamic Law in 1978. Then he received a master's degree in Human Resource Development from the University of South Florida in Tampa in 1987 and later a PhD in Human Resource Development from Vanderbilt University in Nashville in 1995.\n\nSince 1997 Alhammad worked as an assistant professor in the Department of Educational Administration, College of Education in King Saud University in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn 2002 Alhammad established the Riyadh Community College of King Saud University and was dean of the college until 2006. Then, in 2007 he established the College of Arts and Science in Wadi ad-Dawasir and is currently the dean of the college. Recently, he has been the general supervisor of the colleges in Wadi ad-Dawasir and Assulayyel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1630835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1630835", "title": "Oh Yeon-ho", "text": "Oh Yeon-ho\n\nOh Yeon-ho (born 1964) is the founder of \"citizen journalism\" in South Korea, and CEO of OhmyNews a new approach to cyber-journalism in which ordinary citizens can contribute to a major news organization through being at news events, filing reports, and having their work verified and edited by a trained news staff. He is seen as one of the pivotal figures in the contemporary culture of South Korea.\n\nOh was born in 1964 in Gokseong. He graduated from Yonsei University in 1988 with a degree in Korean literature. He earned a master's degree in journalism from Regent University in 1998 and has a PhD in mass-communication at Sogang University in Seoul. In 2006, he received the Wharton Infosys Business Transformation Award for his work with information technology, most specifically his pioneering development of OhmyNews and the society-transforming contributions that resulted.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19290581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19290581", "title": "Order processing", "text": "Order processing\n\nOrder processing is the process or work-flow associated with the picking, packing and delivery of the packed items to a shipping carrier. Order processing is a key element of order fulfillment. Order processing operations or facilities are commonly called \"distribution centers\".\n\nOrder processing is a sequential process involving:\n\n\nThe order picking or order preparation operation is one of a logistic warehouse's processes.\nIt consists in taking and collecting articles in a specified quantity before shipment to satisfy customers' orders.\nIt is a basic warehousing process and has an important influence on supply chain's productivity. This makes order picking one of the most controlled logistic processes.\n\nIt is one of the warehouse management system functions.\n\nTypes of order picking include:\n\nThere are various ways in which a pick may be communicated to a picker:\n\nSome of these technologies can also be used to make sure the picker picked from the proper location using barcode or RFID terminal or voice picking.\n\nPiece picking, also known as broken case picking or pick/pack operations, describes systems where individual items are picked. Operations using piece picking typically have a large stock keeping unit, or SKU, base in the thousands or tens of thousands of items, small quantities per pick, and short cycle times. Examples of piece pick operations include mail order catalog companies and repair parts distributors. \n\nOperations that use case picking tend to have less diversity in product characteristics than operations that use piece picking. There are typically fewer SKUs and higher picks per SKU. \n\nFull-pallet picking, or unit-load picking, uses much simpler systematic methods than piece picking or case picking. However, there are many choices in storage equipment, storage configurations and types of lift trucks. \n\nSorting machines in distribution\nPick and pack is a part of a complete supply chain management process that is commonly used in the retail distribution of goods. It entails processing small to large quantities of product, often truck or train loads and disassembling them, picking the relevant product for each destination and re-packaging with shipping label affixed and invoice included. Usual service includes obtaining a fair rate of shipping from common as well as expediting truck carriers.\nPick and Pack services are offered by many businesses that specialize in supply chain management solutions.\nCase picking is the gathering of full cartons or boxes of product. This is often done on a pallet. In the consumer products industry, case picking large quantities of cartons is often an entry level employee's task. There is, however, significant skill required to make a good pallet load of product. Key requirements are that cartons not be damaged, they make good use of the available cube (space) and be quick to assemble.\n\nWarehouse management system products create pick paths to minimize the travel distance of an order selector, but often neglect the need to maximize the use of cube, segregate products that should not touch or minimize damage.\n\nThe specific \"order fulfillment process\" or the operational procedures of distribution centers are determined by many factors. Each distribution center has its own unique requirements or priorities. There is no \"one size fits all\" process that universally provides the most efficient operation. Some of the factors that determine the specific process flow of a distribution center are:\n\nThis list is only a small sample of factors that can influence the choice of a distribution centers operational procedures. Because each factor has varying importance in each organization the net effect is that each organization has unique processing requirements.\n\nThe effect of Globalization has immense impacts on much of the order fulfillment but its impact is felt mostly in transportation and distribution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53888417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53888417", "title": "Pao Ping-wing", "text": "Pao Ping-wing\n\nPao Ping-wing, JP (; born 1948) is a Hong Kong businessman and politician. He was an elected member of the Urban Council of Hong Kong and member of the Kowloon City District Board.\n\nPao was born in Hong Kong.\n\nPao graduated from the Hong Kong College. Pao earned a Master of Science Degree in Human Settlements Planning and Development from the Asian Institute of Technology in Thailand in April 1980.\n\nPao was elected as one of the Ten Outstanding Young Persons of Hong Kong in 1982 and one of the Ten Outstanding Young Persons of the World in 1983.\n\nHe was first appointed to the newly established Kowloon City District Board. In 1983, he was elected to the Urban Council of Hong Kong. He developed close working relationship with Executive and Legislative Councillor Maria Tam. In 1985, he co-founded the Progressive Hong Kong Society with Tam to develop a grassroots network in preparation for the future elections introduced as the British colonial was pushing forward democratic reform. He ran in the 1985 Legislative Council election, the first indirect election ever introduced to the legislature, but lost to fellow Kowloon City District Board member Daniel Tse. He joined the conservative pro-business Liberal Democratic Federation of Hong Kong (LDF) founded in 1990. He lost his seat in the Kowloon City District Board in Kai Tak.\n\nHe was also appointed member of the Town Planning Board, the Advisory Council on the Environment, the Hong Kong Housing Authority and the Land Development Corporation of the government of Hong Kong. In 1987, he was made Justice of the Peace. He has also served as a cultural advisor of Leisure and Cultural Services Department of the HKSAR government and managing board member of Hong Kong Arts Centre.\n\nPao also has plentiful experience because he has over 15 years experience being an independent non-executive director in various listed companies in Hong Kong, including the Maoye International Holdings Ltd, New Environmental Energy Holdings Limited, Soundwill Holdings Limited, Sing Lee Software Group Ltd., Oriental Press Group Limited, Zhuzhou CRRC Times Electric Co., Ltd., Tonking New Energy Group Holdings Limited and HL Technology Group Limited. He has also been director of the Capital Environment Holdings Limited and the DTXS Silk Road Investment Holdings Company Limited.\n"}
{"id": "24137165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24137165", "title": "QLine", "text": "QLine\n\nThe QLine (stylized as QLINE), originally known as M-1 Rail by its developers and the Woodward Avenue Streetcar by the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT), is a streetcar system in Detroit in the U.S. state of Michigan. Opened on May 12, 2017, it runs along M-1 (Woodward Avenue).\n\nIn December 2011, city and state leaders announced a plan to offer bus rapid transit service for the city and metropolitan area instead of light rail as had previously been proposed. Soon afterwards, M-1 Rail, a consortium of private and public businesses and institutions in the region, announced the plan for a streetcar line along part of the same route as the cancelled light rail plan, connecting the downtown Detroit People Mover to the Amtrak railway station in New Center and the proposed Ann Arbor–Detroit Regional Rail system. Quicken Loans bought the naming rights to the line, and announced the name in March 2016.\n\nDetroit's first streetcar service began in 1863 with horsecars. Electrification of the streetcar system followed, starting in 1886. Detroit's streetcar lines eventually saw their operations consolidated under the privately owned Detroit United Railway. Municipal takeover and control of the streetcar network by Detroit's Department of Street Railways followed in 1922. Detroit Mayor Hazen S. Pingree had led the charge years before to have the city take over operations. Since that gave the companies reason to believe the rail lines would be taken over, they were discouraged from maintaining the lines, which meant that Detroiters had \"inherited a giant money pit\" when the city eventually voted to buy them. That and the Department of Street Railways' introduction of buses from 1925 ultimately led to the demise of the original streetcar system in 1956.\n\nPlanning for the return of rapid transit to Detroit began in 2006 when the Detroit Department of Transportation (DDOT) commissioned a study to determine expanded mass transit options along Woodward Avenue. Concurrently, a private group of local business leaders decided to provide matching funds to government dollars to develop a $125 million, line through central Detroit (similar to the Tacoma Link) called the M-1 Rail Line. After much wrangling between the private investors and the DDOT, the two groups decided to work in tandem on developing DDOT's line.\n\nThe proposed line ran along Woodward Avenue from the Rosa Parks Transit Center to the old State Fairgrounds along 8 Mile Road. The line would have had 19 stops with 10 cars running at a time in two-car trains; each train would carry 150 people. The trains would run in a dedicated right-of-way in the median from 8 Mile to Adams Street at the north end of downtown. South of Adams, the trains would run in traffic along the sides of the street.\n\nThe estimated cost for the proposed line was $500 million. The Kresge Foundation awarded a $35 million grant to the city for the project in March 2009. It received $25 million in funding from the United States Department of Transportation in February 2010. The Detroit City Council approved the sale of $125 million in bonds on April 11, 2011. The Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and the City of Detroit signed an environmental impact study on July 1, 2011. Finally, on August 31, 2011, the FTA signed a record of decision allowing the project to move forward.\n\nIn December 2011 the federal government withdrew its support for the proposed line, in favor of a bus rapid transit system which would serve the city and suburbs. This decision arose out of discussions between federal Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood, Detroit Mayor Dave Bing and Governor Rick Snyder. The private investors who had initially supported the smaller M-1 Rail line to New Center stated that they would continue developing that project through the nonprofit M-1 Rail Consortium. The cancelled proposal would have featured seven additional stops north of Grand Boulevard, where the QLine now ends.\n\nOn January 18, 2013, U.S. Department of Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood announced that M-1 Rail would receive $25 million in federal grant support for the streetcar project. He had previously committed to the funds on the condition that a regional transit authority was created for the Detroit area. In late 2012, the Regional Transit Authority of Southeast Michigan was created by state law, which enabled LaHood's approval.\n\nOn April 22, 2013, the project received final environmental clearance from the federal government, with construction expected to start in the fall.\n\nOn December 20, 2013, M-1 Rail began underground utility relocation work along Woodward Avenue, the first step toward full-fledged construction activities of the streetcar line, with construction scheduled to start in mid-2014. Stacy & Witbeck were formally awarded the contract to construct the M-1 Rail streetcar line on July 31, 2013. M-1 Rail officials announced on July 3, 2014, that the Woodward Avenue overpasses for both I-75 and I-94 freeways will be demolished during construction of the rail line, and that new wider bridges will be built.\n\nOn July 20, 2014, the Ilitch family, owner of Olympia Development of Michigan, and major investor in M-1 Rail, announced that the streetcar line would include a stop at the new Little Caesars Arena in Midtown.\n\nM-1 Rail officially started construction on July 28, 2014. The streetcar line would stretch from downtown Detroit to Grand Boulevard in New Center. There would be 20 different stations serving 12 stops, with most of the stations being curbside on either side of Woodward Avenue going uptown or downtown, but changing to center road stations at the north and south ends of the system. At the time, the streetcar line was expected to be operational in late 2016.\n\nDuring the planning of the service, Detroit businessman Dan Gilbert advocated strongly for a curb-running design. One participant said, \"They were not looking for speed or reliability... their number one goal was the boost in property values.\"\n\nOn September 9, 2014, the US DOT announced that M-1 Rail would receive an additional $12.2 million in federal grant money to complete the financing of the M-1 Rail project. US Transportation Secretary Anthony Foxx gave the keynote address at a rail signing ceremony on September 15, 2014 at Grand Circus Park.\nLocal officials were in attendance as were executives of local businesses who were sponsoring stations near their places of business.\nA new official map was made public.\n\nApproximately 60 percent of the line is not equipped with overhead electrical wires, and the streetcars are powered solely from lithium-ion batteries on that section.\n\nOn February 15, 2015, M-1 Rail reported that the Penske Tech Center was under construction in New Center. The $6.9 million, structure serves as the M-1 Rail headquarters, the operations center, and the streetcar maintenance facility. The tech center building is sited close to Woodward Avenue, and located between Bethune and Custer streets north and east of Grand Boulevard with the streetcar storage yard behind. The exterior is made of reddish brick to mimic the historical look and feel of the surrounding neighborhood, and was completed in May 2016.\n\nIn August 2015, M-1 Rail officials said that the opening of the line would be delayed until around mid 2017, partially because of new federal safety standards that are coming into effect, as well as a construction slowdown during the previous winter and delays in building the rolling stock. QLine was announced as the official name for the line in March 2016, after Quicken Loans bought naming rights, but the non-profit organization that is overseeing the project continues to be named M-1 Rail.\n\nThe first streetcar was delivered in September 2016. The first test move over the line took place on December 13, and the streetcar was initially towed (not yet run under its own power, except at the maintenance facility).\n\nThe QLine opened for public use on May 12, 2017. Although initially slated to be free only for the first weekend, the streetcar's free period was later extended for a week, and later until July 1, and again until Labor Day 2017. Ridership for the opening week was 50,000, with a peak of 8,300 during the weekend and 5,120 Monday through Thursday. Daily ridership dropped to 3,000 when the payment service began on September 5, 2017 with 40% of riders paying fares.\n\n\"Crain's Detroit Business\" reported that the line would cost $137 million, including the purchase of six streetcar vehicles. Bids were expected to include low-floor, air-conditioned vehicles, capable of transporting passengers in wheelchairs. The vehicles have operator's controls at both ends—eliminating the need for the vehicles to turn around for their return trips.\n\nOn November 4, 2014, M-1 announced that Czech-based Inekon had been awarded a $30 million contract for six vehicles. Upon that deal falling apart, M-1 Rail instead awarded a $32 million contract to Pennsylvania-based Brookville Equipment Corporation. The purchase includes six articulated, three-section, cars, equipped with 750-volt rechargeable lithium-ion batteries for off-wire movement on sections of the line not equipped with overhead wire.\n\nThe first Brookville-built streetcar was delivered in September 2016, with the last two of the six cars delivered in March 2017. The last car of Detroit's previous streetcar system was numbered 286, so it was decided to number the new cars 287–292, to pick up where the old number series had left off.\n\nThe QLine traverses Woodward Avenue in its entirely from downtown thru Midtown to New Center. The line begins at the southern terminus at Congress Street in the median before tracks swing to the curbside for most of its length. (Some parts of the line have tracks running down the middle travel lane of Woodward in downtown.) After traveling in the curbside travel lane, the line swings back into the inside travel lane (median) at Amsterdam all the way to the line's northern terminus at Grand Boulevard. Non-revenue tracks continue two blocks to the M-1 Rail Penske Tech Center, which serves as headquarters for the QLine and the garage for the streetcars.\n\nThe QLine operates seven days a week. Service begins at 6 a.m. Monday through Friday and 8 a.m. Saturdays and Sundays. Service ends at midnight Monday through Thursday, 2 a.m. Fridays and Saturday nights (early Saturday and Sunday) and at 11 p.m. Sundays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11486445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486445", "title": "Railway costing", "text": "Railway costing\n\nRailway costing is the calculation of the variable and fixed costs of rail movements. Variable costs are those that increase or decrease with changes in the traffic volumes or service levels and include fuel, maintenance and train crew costs, for example. Fixed costs are normally associated with items such as head office, interest charges and other overhead. Unit costs can then be calculated based on the expenses of the railway divided into standard categories.\n\nIn order to assist in its deliberations regarding rate and service complaints, the Canadian Transportation Agency has identified various types of costs. These costs include: \n\n\nThe methodology used in railway costing breaks down the costs of rail traffic to their unit value and from there determines their relationship to traffic handled and service provided. Therefore, as traffic and services change, the effect of these changes can be estimated from the unit values previously determined. The costing model methodology allows for variable costs to increase as traffic increases, whereas the fixed costs will remain constant, regardless of the overall level of traffic.\n\nRailway costing is typically performed using mathematical models. Using unit costs from current operating data and current accounting and operating information, it is possible to develop costing information for the railway. This costing information may be used to estimate the operating cost of a new line and to determine whether it is economically viable. Alternatively, the model could be used to estimate the cost effects of changing speed limits along a route. The savings that can be achieved with a railway costing model are endless. For example, by knowing the costs of doing business, a railway can appropriately determine the tariffs to be charged.\n\nIn addition, railway costing models typically handle passenger and freight traffic, making them applicable in more situations, including mixed traffic situations.\n\nsome commercial variations of railway costing models have been implemented, including the OSCAR railway costing model developed by CPCS Transcom Limited. CPCS is an international infrastructure development firm and has successfully used this model in dozens of its projects worldwide.\n\nThe Cartage railway costing model was developed by Vectorail, a global supplier of railway costing solutions with more than forty years of experience in the field.\n\n"}
{"id": "1313761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1313761", "title": "Richard DeVos", "text": "Richard DeVos\n\nRichard Marvin DeVos Sr. (March 4, 1926 – September 6, 2018) was an American billionaire businessman, co-founder of Amway with Jay Van Andel (company restructured as Alticor in 2000), and owner of the Orlando Magic basketball team. In 2012, \"Forbes\" magazine listed him as the 60th-wealthiest person in the United States, and the 205th-richest in the world, with an estimated net worth of $5.1 billion.\n\nDeVos was born in Grand Rapids, Michigan, the son of Ethel Ruth (Dekker) and Simon Cornelius DeVos, who worked in the electrical business. He was educated at Calvin College and was a member of the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity. He served in the military in World War II in the United States Army Air Corps.\n\nBooks written by him include \"Compassionate Capitalism\" and \"Hope From My Heart: Ten Lessons For Life\". The latter reflects his feelings after successfully undergoing a heart transplant operation in 1997. This was preceded by two heart-bypass operations in 1983 and 1992. In 1975, DeVos published a book about his success, co-authored with Charles Paul Conn, titled \"Believe!\". In 2014 he published his memoirs titled \"Simply Rich\".\n\nDeVos was the owner of the NBA team Orlando Magic, having bought the team in 1991 for $85 million. He became interested in the team after an unsuccessful effort to acquire a Major League Baseball expansion franchise for Orlando.\n\nDeVos also formerly owned the Orlando Solar Bears, Grand Rapids Griffins, and the Kansas City Blades, three International Hockey League franchises before that league folded; the Solar Bears and Blades were closed as a result of the league folding, while the Griffins moved to the American Hockey League, and are now under the ownership of Dan DeVos, one of Richard's sons.\n\nDeVos asked Orange County, Florida, to help pay for the Orlando Magic's new arena using county funds and Dema Stobell's Corporation money. Amway pays for the naming rights to Amway Center. The use of public money was controversial.\n\nHe sat on the board of trustees of Northwood University and has been president of the Council for National Policy. He also served on the board of trustees of the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, which is a museum dedicated to the U.S. Constitution. He sat on the legacy board of Christian Leaders Institute, the nonprofit organization founded by Henry Reyenga Jr. after he was encouraged by DeVos and Ron Parr.\n\nHe co-founded the Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation, an American conservative foundation and grant-making body in 1970. It is based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. The DeVoses were known in their philanthropy for contributing to education, health care, arts and historic causes like Mount Vernon, and free-market think tanks such as The Heritage Foundation and AEI.\n\nAccording to the DeVoses, the core of their giving is local. \"A focus of our philanthropy has always been our home area. We want to create an atmosphere for everyone to improve their circumstances while advancing our community, whether through Christian compassion, education, health care, or the arts.\" The DeVoses gave money to organizations ranging from local schools to the regional symphony. According to the Philanthropy Roundtable, their giving is \"helping turn Grand Rapids, Michigan, into one of the livelier and healthier small cities in the U.S. When the couple won their Simon Prize in 2006, they distributed the award money to eight local organizations in western Michigan 'whose leaders all demonstrated resourcefulness in helping people help themselves'\".\n\nWith his wife, Helen June (Van Wesep), DeVos was a winner of the William E. Simon Prize for Philanthropic Leadership.\n\nEducation-related philanthropy included the Richard M. and Helen DeVos Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation at Grand Valley State University, the Richard and Helen DeVos Fieldhouse at Hope College and the Richard and Helen DeVos Center for Arts and Worship at Grand Rapids Christian Schools. The Richard and Helen DeVos Foundation was in part responsible for funding the creation of the Sport Business Management Program at the University of Central Florida.\n\nDeVos was a major donor to the U.S. Republican Party and to conservative causes, including Focus on the Family, the American Enterprise Institute. DeVos supported the candidacies of Rick Santorum and Newt Gingrich. DeVos has served as a finance chairman for the Republican National Committee.\n\nDeVos was a long-time close friend of Gerald and Betty Ford, and was an honorary pallbearer at Gerald Ford's state funeral. Devos was also an honorary trustee of the Gerald R. Ford Presidential Foundation.\n\nIn addition to Dan (owner of the Griffins), DeVos was the father of Richard Jr., Cheri, and Doug. Richard Jr., who is married to United States Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos, was the Republican Party nominee for governor of Michigan in 2006, but was defeated by the then-incumbent governor, Jennifer Granholm.\n\nDeVos made it his mission to bring the Christian Reformed Church in North America and Reformed Church in America, which split in 1857 and divided his grandparents, back together.\n\nHe died at his home in Ada, Michigan on September 6, 2018, at the age of 92.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14024204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14024204", "title": "Rolf Gerling", "text": "Rolf Gerling\n\nRolf Gerling (born 15 December 1954 in Cologne) is a German billionairre ranked #512 worldwide in wealth by Forbes magazine. He has a net worth of approximately US$1.5 billion. He inherited a 94% stake in Gerling Konzern from his father Hans Gerling, valued at US$1.6 billion in 1992. Gerling Konzern is one of the world's largest writers of reinsurance policies. Gerling managed the firm until he sold his stake in 2005 to the Talanx Group and now works mostly with the Gerling Academy for Risk Research, an environmental think tank that he founded. Gerling lives in Switzerland.\n\n"}
{"id": "16486535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16486535", "title": "St. John's Episcopal Church (Detroit, Michigan)", "text": "St. John's Episcopal Church (Detroit, Michigan)\n\nSt. John's Episcopal Church is an antebellum-era church located at 2326 Woodward Avenue (at the corner of Woodward and the Fisher Freeway service drive) in Downtown Detroit, Michigan. It is the oldest church still standing on Woodward Avenue, an area once called Piety Hill for its large number of religious buildings. The church was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982 and designated a Michigan State Historic Site in 1987.\n\nThe parish of St. John's was organized in Detroit in 1858, primarily due to the efforts of Henry Porter Baldwin, a successful merchant who later became governor of Michigan and a United States senator. Porter purchased and donated the property, which was then on the northern outskirts of Detroit's city limits at the corner of Woodward and High Street (now Interstate 75). He also donated the money to build a rectory and a 150-seat chapel, designed by Jordan & Anderson.\n\nWhen the chapel was dedicated in 1859, it proved too small for the burgeoning congregation. A new church was commissioned from Jordan & Anderson and quickly constructed; it was consecrated on December 10, 1861.\n\nToday the church congregation is unusual among those of the modern Episcopal Church, as it uses the traditional 1928 edition of the Book of Common Prayer. Some weekday services use the Anglican Missal, rather than the newer 1979 edition Book of Common Prayer.\n\nSt. John's is an example of Victorian Gothic Revival architecture, measuring 170 feet by 65 feet. The belfry, the tallest section of the building, rises 105 feet. The bulk of the exterior is rubble limestone, with the trim made of Kelly Island sandstone. The side walls and roof are supported by buttresses and hammer beam trusses. Decorative gargoyles festoon the roof line and hood moldings above the windows and doors. The interior has galleries cantilevered on three sides; originally there were no intermediary piers to support the roof, giving the church an auditorium feel.\n\nThere are six memorial stained glass windows on either side of the nave. These were installed between 1880 and 1954. The upper portions of the windows, above the stained glass, are still the original grisaille and colored glass. The great west window was dedicated in 1963.\n\nThe altar, installed in 1873, is constructed of white Caen stone; it serves as a memorial to the mother of then-Rector George Worthington. Most of the rest of the chancel furnishings were donated as memorials during the renovations in 1892. These include the screen made from wrought iron and Caen stone, the harmonizing pulpit, and the brass lectern. Hand-carved oak clergy and choir stalls were added following the 1936 renovation.\n\nThere have been two major architectural alterations to St. John's since the church was built. The first, in 1892, deepened the chancel to create space for the organ console and the choir. This alteration required that the original chapel be taken down and rebuilt ten feet farther east. In 1936, due to the widening of Woodward Avenue, the entire church and chapel were moved 60 feet backwards.\n\nThe oldest part of the church, the chapel, still stands, and includes a number of stained glass windows. A State of Michigan historical marker now marks the church.\n\n"}
{"id": "32172585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32172585", "title": "Sue Manteris", "text": "Sue Manteris\n\nSunanda \"Sue\" Tripathi-Manteris (born June 20, 1962) is an Indian-born American account executive and former journalist at the NBC affiliate in Las Vegas, Nevada, KSNV.\n\nManteris was raised in Littleton, Colorado, a suburb of Denver, where she attended Columbine High School. She went on to receive a bachelor of arts degree in Mass Communications in 1985 from Colorado State University–Pueblo.\n\nIn 1984, she began her broadcasting career as a disc jockey at KDZA and Z-100 in Southern Colorado, including a transfer to the News Department where she did “morning drive” newscasts. She began working in television in 1985 as a reporter and weekend anchor at KCWY-TV in Casper, Wyoming. She later moved to work in TV news positions at KULR-TV in Billings, Montana and WWAY-TV in Wilmington, North Carolina. Manteris moved to Las Vegas in early 1989 when she joined the NBC affiliate, Channel 3, as a news anchor. She continued this position for 22 years until June 10, 2011 when her contract expired.\n\nAs a result of allegations of ethnic, gender and age discrimination, a Federal lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court in Nevada on May 17, 2011 on her behalf. On April 2, 2012, Judge Gloria Navarro put the lawsuit on hold and ordered Manteris to resolve the lawsuit against the station through arbitration.\n\nDuring her broadcasting years, her industry honors and commendations include multiple Electronic Media Awards for “Best Anchor.” She was also honored as a finalist for Emmy Award for “Hooked on Hookah.” Manteris is a founding member and currently an officer in “Las Vegas-India Chamber of Commerce” and member of “Friends of India.” Manteris is married and has one son; she lives in Boulder City, Nevada.\n\nManteris is a supporter of the Leukemia & Lymphoma Society of Southern Nevada. Her 12-year-old grandson died March 2018 from acute myeloid leukemia. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "14688013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14688013", "title": "Textile Labelling Act (Germany)", "text": "Textile Labelling Act (Germany)\n\nThe Textile Labelling Act (Germany) ( Lit:\"Law on the designation of textiles\", short \"TextilKennzG\") is a German federal law which was decreed on 1 April 1969. The law was completely rewritten and the new version was announced on 14 August 1986. The law was last changed by decree on 14 November 2006.\n\nThis law is part of the German consumer protection. Textiles to be commercially sold in Germany, commercially imported into Germany or produced to be sold in Germany have to have a label indicating the type and fraction based on weight of the textile raw materials it is composed of. Also any catalogue, brochure or other type of commercial have to state the composition of the textiles to be sold. There are certain rules on how to determine the weight fractions and how to calculate them.\n\nTextiles in the context of this law is any good, fabric, part of mattress or camping good, lining of shoes and gloves, floor-covering and many other goods which consist of at least 80% textile raw materials. Textile raw materials are filaments or hairs which can be spun, including bands and flexible tubes not wider than 5mm.\n\nFor example, if a T-shirt consists of 80% cotton and 20% elastane this has to be declared on the label of the garment. If the shirt consists of 100% cotton one can choose between \"100% cotton\" or \"completely made of cotton\" or \"pure cotton\". For things made of wool and silk there are special regulations. Annex One of the law regulates the denomination of the various filaments.\n\nIn Annex Three there is a list of things that do not need a label indicating their composition, such as wristbands for watches, labels, artificial flowers, etc. Annex Four lists products that don't need a label but just an indication of their composition at the site of sale. These are especially things which are traditionally sold per meter like elastic tape.\n\nIf one violates the prescription on labelling textiles he can fined up to 5,000.00 Euros.\n\nOne does not have to declare the country of production on labels. This declaration is optional. Care instructions are printed on labels for liability- and compensation-prevention and are also optional. \n\n"}
{"id": "20270522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20270522", "title": "Timeline of the 2008 Chinese milk scandal", "text": "Timeline of the 2008 Chinese milk scandal\n\nThis timeline of the 2008 Chinese milk scandal documents how events related to the Chinese dairy products contamination by melamine unfolded. Complaints about kidney problems traced back to a brand of infant formula, subsequent discoveries of melamine contamination of liquid milk, and exported powdered milk of processed food products (using contaminated milk). The scandal decimated Chinese dairy exports, and re-exposed long-standing concerns about food security, corruption, lack of political checks and balances. Though the scandal came to attention in 2008, its roots can be traced back to events prior to 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28356588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28356588", "title": "Tomislav Karadžić", "text": "Tomislav Karadžić\n\nTomislav \"Tole\" Karadžić (; born 10 February 1939) is a Montenegrin Serb businessman and football administrator. From 2008 to 2016, he served in his second stint as the president of the Football Association of Serbia (FSS).\n\nFrom 2005 until 2006 Karadžić was the president of Serbian and Montenegrin Football Association (FSSCG). Prior to that he was the president of the regional FA (Football Association of Vojvodina), the job he performed for 18 years. On 25 September 2007, Karadžić became the president of Partizan Belgrade where he came following the decades-long reign of Nenad Bjeković, Žarko Zečević, and Ivan Ćurković at the club.\n\nSimultaneously, Karadžić kept a position at the Serbian FA where he was a deputy to the association's president Zvezdan Terzić. In March 2008, Terzić fled the country after getting indicted for embezzlement of player transfer funds and Karadžić took over his role as FA president. During summer 2008 new elections were held for the FSS presidency. Karadžić beat out Dragan Aca Bulić.\n\nDuring his time as a student in Belgrade, Karadžić was reportedly convicted in 1961 of aggravated assault and sentenced to year and a half in prison. The victim is said to have lost an eye. However, under mysterious circumstances, Karadžić was released after only 6 months in the Spuž prison.\n\nThe incident briefly came back into public focus during August 2013 while Karadžić publicly clashed with the Red Star Belgrade club vice-president Nebojša Čović over ongoing Serbian SuperLiga administrative issues.\n\nFor many years, Karadžić has been heavily criticized by public due to various reasons and decisions, which had catastrophic consequences for the Serbian football. After numerous serious irregularities in player sales (mostly for young players), serious suspicions of match-fixing, and an impending boycott of the Serbian top club Red Star Belgrade combined with sharp criticism of over half of the clubs in Serbian SuperLiga, Karadžić announced his resignation in late 2013.\n\nWhen criticism became public, he was in Budva on holiday, so therefore he didn't comment it in details, but referred to his critics as criminals. His adversary Zvezdan Terzic — a football administrator who also drew strong criticism by Serbian public for of similar reasons — called for the convening of a special meeting of the Federation Parliament and the immediate withdrawal. However, Karadžić not resigned and since then is even more under criticism. Accusations against him for administrative abuse, monopoly, and clientelism have been continued.\n\nFor a certain time, during the league matches, fans frequently start a chant against him which says \"Tole, lopove!\" (Tole, you are a thief!), and these are often supporters of both teams playing, even the fans of the biggest Serbian clubs and eternal rivals, Delije and Grobari. These chants have been sung even during the matches of the Serbian national team.\n"}
{"id": "1367498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1367498", "title": "Tucker: The Man and His Dream", "text": "Tucker: The Man and His Dream\n\nTucker: The Man and His Dream is a 1988 American biographical comedy-drama film directed by Francis Ford Coppola and starring Jeff Bridges. The film recounts the story of Preston Tucker and his attempt to produce and market the 1948 Tucker Sedan, which was met with scandal between the \"Big Three automobile manufacturers\" and accusations of stock fraud from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Joan Allen, Martin Landau, Elias Koteas, Frederic Forrest and Christian Slater appear in supporting roles.\n\nIn 1973, Coppola began development of a film based on the life of Tucker, originally with Marlon Brando in the lead role. Starting in 1976, Coppola planned \"Tucker\" to be both a musical and an experimental film with music and lyrics written by Leonard Bernstein, Betty Comden and Adolph Green. The project eventually collapsed when Coppola's American Zoetrope experienced financial problems. \"Tucker\" was revived in 1986 when Coppola's friend, George Lucas, joined as a producer.\n\nThe film received critical praise, but was a box office disappointment. Nonetheless, \"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\" produced a spike in prices of Tucker Sedans, as well as a renewed appreciation for Tucker and his automobiles.\n\nDetroit engineer Preston Tucker has been interested in building cars since childhood. During World War II he designed an armored car for the military and made money building gun turrets for aircraft in a small shop next to his home in Ypsilanti, Michigan. Tucker is supported by his large, extended family, including wife Vera and eldest son Preston Jr.\n\nAs the war winds down, Tucker has a dream of finally building the \"car of the future.\" The \"Tucker Torpedo\" will feature revolutionary safety designs including disc brakes, seat belts, a pop out windshield, and head lights which swivel when you turn. Tucker hires young designer Alex Tremulis to help with the design and enlists New York financier Abe Karatz to arrange financial support. Raising the money through a stock issue, Tucker and Karatz acquire the enormous Dodge Chicago Plant to begin manufacturing. Abe hires Robert Bennington to run the new Tucker Corporation on a day-to-day basis.\n\nLaunching \"the car of tomorrow\" in a spectacular way, the Tucker Corporation is met with enthusiasm from shareholders and the general public. However, the Tucker company board of directors, unsure of his ability to overcome the technical and financial obstacles ahead, send Tucker off on a publicity campaign and attempt to take complete control of the company. While Tucker travels the country, Bennington and directors change the design of Tucker's car to a more conventional design, eliminating the safety and engineering advances Tucker was advertising. At the same time, Tucker faces animosity from the Big Three and the authorities led by Michigan Senator Homer S. Ferguson.\n\nTucker returns from his publicity tour and confronts Bennington, who curtly informs him that he no longer has any power in the company to make decisions, and the engine originally planned for the car is not viable. Tucker then receives a call from Howard Hughes, who sends a private plane to bring Tucker to his aircraft manufacturing site. Hughes advises Tucker to purchase the Aircooled Motors Company, which can supply both the steel Tucker needs, as well as a small, powerful helicopter engine that might replace Tucker's original \"589\" power plant.\n\nFaced with being unable to change Bennington's design, Tucker modifies the new engine and installs it in a test Tucker in the secrecy of his backyard tool and die shop. This prototype proves successful in both durability and crash testing. However, Tucker is confronted with allegations of stock fraud. Ferguson's investigation with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), causes Karatz, once convicted of bank fraud, to resign, fearful that his criminal record will prejudice the hearings. Yellow journalism starts ruining Tucker's public image even though the ultimate courtroom battle is resolved when he parades his entire production run of 50 Tucker Torpedoes, proving that he has reached production status.\n\nAfter giving a speech to the jurors on how capitalism in the United States is harmed by efforts of large corporations against small entrepreneurs like himself, Tucker is acquitted on all charges. Nevertheless, his company falls into bankruptcy and Preston Tucker dies of lung cancer seven years later, never able to realize his dream of producing a state-of-the-art automobile.\n\nThe film ends with all 50 Tucker Sedans being driven down the streets of downtown Chicago, admired by everyone as they pass.\n\nFrom childhood, Coppola envisioned a film about the Tucker automobile and while attending the UCLA School of Theater, Film and Television in the early 1960s, further refined a film concept based on the life of Preston Tucker. In June 1973, during the filming of \"The Godfather Part II\" (1974), Coppola announced his intention to start development at American Zoetrope as writer, producer and director. He had already approached Marlon Brando for the lead role. He then purchased the rights from the Tucker Estate in 1976, and, in addition to Brando, discussed the leading role with Jack Nicholson and also considered Burt Reynolds. Taking inspiration from \"Citizen Kane\" (1941), Kabuki theater and the work of Bertolt Brecht, Coppola initially planned to make \"Tucker\" as a \"dark kind of musical.\" He later said that the idea approximated the style of an experimental film, similar to \"\" (1985), which he produced.\n\nThe musical would have featured Tucker predominantly, but storylines would have interwoven Thomas Edison, Henry Ford, Harvey Samuel Firestone and Andrew Carnegie as supporting characters. Leonard Bernstein agreed to write the music, and Betty Comden and Adolph Green were hired to write the lyrics. They all spent a week at Coppola's home in California, planning the musical which resulted in Bernstein writing one song. Coppola also approached Gene Kelly as a consultant for the dance choreography. However, financing for \"Tucker\" fell through when Coppola's production company, American Zoetrope, filed for bankruptcy after the box office failures of \"One from the Heart\" (1982) and \"The Cotton Club\" (1984). Coppola abandoned \"Tucker\" for the time being and went to work on \"Peggy Sue Got Married\" (1986).\n\nIn 1986, during the production of \"Captain EO\" (1986), Coppola's friend George Lucas encouraged him to revive development for \"Tucker\", believing it to be \"the best film Francis had ever been involved with.\" In addition, Lucas agreed to serve as executive producer and offered the use of his filmmaking companies, Lucasfilm and Industrial Light & Magic. He also convinced Coppola to drop the musical idea in favor of doing a homage to the films of Frank Capra, especially \"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington\" (1939). Coppola became interested in the American Dream aspect of the storyline, as well as post-World War II capitalism and politics. At one point, Coppola approached Capra to produce the film with Lucas, however, Capra thought Tucker was a failure and Coppola dropped that plan.\n\nCoppola originally intended to write the screenplay himself, but due to his commitment to the filming of \"Gardens of Stone\" (1987), engaged Arnold Schulman who scripted Capra's \"A Hole in the Head\" (1959). Schulman was angered when screenwriter David Seidler, who'd been previously attached to the project, was granted a co-writing credit by the WGA, stating: \"Believe me, I was pissed off about the credit grabbing on \"Tucker\". I'm still pissed off. That is one instance where every word of the script is \"mine\".\" Coppola was also displeased by Seidler's credit, stating: \"They gave a credit to a writer who had nothing to do with the script that I used.\" The filmmakers devised a $24 million production budget, but Universal Pictures, Walt Disney Pictures, TriStar Pictures and Paramount Pictures wanted Coppola and Lucas to lower it to $15 million. Distributors were also dubious about working with Lucas after the 1986 commercial and critical failures of both \"Labyrinth\" and \"Howard the Duck\". Lucas decided to cover the $24 million budget himself, and pre-production proceeded.\n\nDevelopment and production for \"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\" included the involvement of Tucker's children and grandchildren. Jeff Bridges was cast in the title role and, for research, studied Preston Tucker's mannerisms and movements through home movies. Tucker's descendants also granted Bridges the opportunity to sport the man's black pearl ring and cuff links for his wardrobe. Preston's son, John Tucker, said that Bridges has \"got it all in the mannerisms and the look. My father was very positive, always thinking of what came next. Jeff captures that.\" Martin Landau was enthusiastic about accepting the pivotal role of Abe Karatz as a means to avoid typecasting. The construct of family values played a crucial role in the Tuckers' life and Coppola studiously selected Joan Allen for the part of Vera, Tucker's devoted wife while Christian Slater and Elias Koteas fill in the other central roles of eldest son and Tucker's friend and confederate, Alex Tremulis. Coppola's family was undergoing a stressful time during the production and he dedicated the film to Gio, his eldest son, who died before filming began.\n\nPrincipal photography started with first unit shooting on April 13, 1987 in the Ford Motor Company Assembly Plant in Richmond, California, doubling for the Dodge Chicago Plant. The majority of outdoor filming took place in Marin County, California as well as various locations including Oakland, Novato, and San Francisco. Forty-seven of the original 51 Tucker '48s still exist, and many are in excellent condition. Twenty-one of the cars were borrowed from members of the Tucker Automobile Club of America and were extensively used as both \"set dressing\" and in starring roles. Three cars were used to film the crash scene, a \"before\" version, with a fiberglass body, the car used to do the actual rollover was a Studebaker modified to look like a Tucker (this car is currently in a privately owned museum in Tallahassee, Florida), and an \"after crash\" version which was another fiberglass body fitted to a Ford LTD chassis. The production is notable as the first film to have audio mixing work done at Lucas's Skywalker Ranch. Production wrapped on July 17, 1987, and in the following month, Lucas convinced Paramount Pictures to distribute the film and cover the majority of the budget. He was helped by the fact that the studio was courting Coppola to direct \"The Godfather Part III\" (1990). Prior to final editing, the studio insisted on amplifying the title to \"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\".\n\nCoppola had a certain amount of personal affinity with the short-lived legacy of Preston Tucker. His father, Carmine Coppola, had been one of the original investors in Tucker stock and purchased one of the cars off the production line. Coppola included the involvement of Preston Tucker's children, grandchildren and members of the Tucker Estate during the development of \"Tucker\" in the late 1970s, as well as during filming in 1987. Coppola and Lucas acknowledged that they purposely intended to portray Tucker in an entirely sympathetic way. Both filmmakers each owned two Tuckers, although Lucas eventually sold one of his cars in September 2005 for $385,500. The Tucker Automobile Club made up of a legion of Tucker owners and collectors pronounced in their trade journal, \"TACA\", that the \"basic theme of the movie is quite accurate...\" although \"the film compresses time and often takes artistic license with facts in order to more effectively present the story.\"\n\nAnahid Nazarian, Coppola's librarian, spoke of the historical inaccuracies. \"Preston Tucker didn't really have an assembly line; there's one in the film. He actually had five kids; there are only four in the film. Our story takes place in one year; the real story took place over four years. People who know the story will find a lot of what they call errors. I'm sure I'll be deluged with letters.\" Nazarian's research, collected over several years, consisted of books, some 350 articles, interviews with the Tucker family, hundreds of photographs, home movies and information from the Tucker Automobile Club of America who the production company considered important arbiters of the Tucker mystique. \"We knew the facts,\" she continued, \"but to fit the spirit of the story in a film that is exciting and has characters you love and characters you hate - that made us change a lot of things. Things like the president of the Tucker Company was a good guy really, but we needed a villain, so we made him a villain.\" Alex Tremulis, who served as one of the historical consultants during production, is depicted as the chief car designer of the Tucker Torpedo rather than as the stylist, and the film ignores the involvement of designer Philip Egan.\n\n\"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\" was released in the United States on August 12, 1988, earning $3,709,562 in its opening weekend in 720 theaters. The film eventually grossed $19.65 million in US totals and was declared a box office bomb because it did not reimburse its $24 million production budget, despite positive reviews. Pocket Books published a novelization written by Robert Tine to coincide with the release of the film. Paramount Home Video released \"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\" on DVD in October 2000, which included audio commentary by Coppola, the 1948 promotional film \"Tucker: The Man and the Car\" (with optional commentary by Coppola), as well as a making-of featurette, \"Under the Hood: Making Tucker\".\n\nCritical reaction was mainly positive. Based on 38 reviews collected by \"Rotten Tomatoes\", 84% of the critics enjoyed the film with an average score of 7.2/10. By comparison \"Metacritic\" calculated an average score of 74/100, based on 13 reviews. Richard Schickel of \"Time\" magazine praised the film for its exaggerated kitsch style. He also believed the role of Preston Tucker to be Jeff Bridges' best performance. Janet Maslin from \"The New York Times\" agreed, writing that Coppola, known for his dark approach on his previous films, \"found the directorial range to actually make a feel-good movie.\" In addition, Desson Thomson, writing in \"The Washington Post\", called the film a \"satisfying commercial breakthrough for Coppola,\" and praised the cinematography of Vittorio Storaro, as well as the ubiquitous approach for Dean Stockwell's cameo appearance as Howard Hughes. Roger Ebert gave a mixed review. \"Preston Tucker lacks an ounce of common sense or any notion of the real odds against him. And since the movie never really deals with that - never really comes to grips with Tucker's character - it begins as a saga but ends in whimsy.\"\n\nAlthough Coppola enjoyed his working relationship with Lucas, he commented in a July 1988 \"The New York Times\" interview with Robert Lindsey that \"I think it's a good movie - it's eccentric, a little wacky, like the Tucker car - but it's not the movie I would have made at the height of my power.\" Coppola was able to stoically accept the critical and commercial reaction to \"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\". \"Every time in my career I tried to make, dare I say it, an art film, it never did well.\"\n\nDespite helming his \"labor of love,\" Coppola was insistent that \"Tucker: The Man and His Dream\" would be his last Hollywood project. He reiterated a long-held dream of his own, embarking on a \"period of amateurism and experimentation as a Hollywood dropout.\" One of the unexpected benefits of the film's release was a renewed interest in the Tucker automobile and a boost in the collector's value of the Tucker 48; in a 2008 auction, a low-mileage example topped the $1 million mark.\n\nAt the 61st Academy Awards, Martin Landau was nominated for Best Supporting Actor, while production and set designers Dean Tavoularis and Armin Ganz (Art Direction) and Milena Canonero (Costume Design) were also nominated for their work. Landau did end up winning the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor in a Motion Picture, while Tavoularis won the BAFTA Award for Best Production Design. Casting directors Jane Jenkins and Janet Hirshenson received a nomination for Feature Film Casting- Drama by the Casting Society of America. The film was nominated for the prestigious Grand Prix of the Belgian Syndicate of Cinema Critics. Music composer Joe Jackson received a Grammy Award nomination.\n\n"}
{"id": "549146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=549146", "title": "Warehouse", "text": "Warehouse\n\nA warehouse is a commercial building for storage of goods. Warehouses are used by manufacturers, importers, exporters, wholesalers, transport businesses, customs, etc. They are usually large plain buildings in industrial parks on the outskirts of cities, towns or villages.\n\nThey usually have loading docks to load and unload goods from trucks. Sometime warehouses are designed for the loading and unloading of goods directly from railways, airports, or seaports. They often have cranes and forklifts for moving goods, which are usually placed on ISO standard pallets loaded into pallet racks. Stored goods can include any raw materials, packing materials, spare parts, components, or finished goods associated with agriculture, manufacturing and production. In India, a warehouse may be referred to as a godown.\n\nA warehouse can be defined functionally as a building in which to store bulk produce or goods (\"wares\") for commercial purposes. The built form of warehouse structures throughout time depends on many contexts: materials, technologies, sites and cultures. \n\nIn this sense, the warehouse postdates the need for communal or state-based mass storage of surplus food. Prehistoric civilizations relied on family- or community-owned storage pits, or ‘palace’ storerooms, such as at Knossos, to protect surplus food. The archaeologist Colin Renfrew argued that gathering and storing agricultural surpluses in Bronze Age Minoan ‘palaces’ was a critical ingredient in the formation of proto-state power.\n\nThe need for \"ware\"houses developed in societies in which trade reached a critical mass requiring storage at some point in the exchange process. This was highly evident in ancient Rome, where the horreum (pl. horrea) became a standard building form.  The most studied examples are in Ostia, the port city that served Rome. The Horrea Galbae, a warehouse complex on the road towards Ostia, demonstrates that these buildings could be substantial, even by modern standards. Galba’s horrea complex contained 140 rooms on the ground floor alone, covering an area of some 225,000 square feet (21,000 m²). As a point of reference, less than half of U.S. warehouses today are larger than 100,000 square feet (9290 m²). \n\nThe need for a warehouse implies having quantities of goods too big to be stored in a domestic storeroom. But as attested by legislation concerning the levy of duties, some medieval merchants across Europe commonly kept goods in their large household storerooms, often on the ground floor or cellars. An example is the Fondaco dei Tedeschi, the substantial quarters of German traders in Venice, which combined a dwelling, warehouse, market and quarters for travellers. \n\nFrom the middle ages on, dedicated warehouses were constructed around ports and other commercial hubs to facilitate large-scale trade. The warehouses of the trading port Bryggen in Bergen, Norway (now a World Heritage site), demonstrate characteristic European gabled timber forms dating from the late middle ages, though what remains today was largely rebuilt in the same traditional style following great fires in 1702 and 1955. \n\nDuring the industrial revolution the function of warehouses evolved and became more specialised. Always a building of function, in the past few decades warehouses have adapted to standardisation, mechanisation, technological innovation and changes in supply chain methods.\n\nA customised storage building—a warehouse—enables a business to stockpile goods, eg, to build up a full load prior to transport, or hold unloaded goods before further distribution, or store goods like wine and cheese that require maturation. As a place for storage, the warehouse has to be secure, convenient, and as spacious as possible, according to the owner’s resources, the site and contemporary building technology.  Before mechanised technology developed, warehouse functions relied on human labour, using mechanical lifting aids like pulley systems.\n\nThe mass production of goods launched by the industrial revolution of the 18th and 19th centuries fuelled the development of larger and more specialised warehouses, usually located close to transport hubs on canals, at railways and portside. Specialisation of tasks is characteristic of the factory system, which developed in British textile mills and potteries in the mid-late 1700s. Factory processes speeded up work and deskilled labour, bringing new profits to capital investment. \n\nWarehouses also fulfill a range of commercial functions beside simple storage, exemplified by Manchester’s cotton warehouses and Australian wool stores: receiving, stockpiling and despatching goods; displaying goods for commercial buyers; packing, checking and labelling orders, and despatching them. \n\nThe utilitarian architecture of warehouses responded fast to emerging technologies. Before and into the nineteenth century, the basic European warehouse was built of load-bearing masonry walls, or heavy-framed timber with a suitable external cladding. Inside, heavy timber posts supported timber beams and joists for the upper levels, rarely more than four to five storeys high. \n\nA gabled roof was conventional, with a gate in the gable facing the street, rail lines or port for a crane to hoist goods into the window-gates on each floor below. Convenient access for road transport was built-in via very large doors on the ground floor. If not in a separate building, office and display spaces were located on the ground or first floor. \n\nTechnological innovations of the early 19th century changed the shape of warehouses and the work performed inside them: cast iron columns and later, moulded steel posts; saw-tooth roofs; and steam power. All (except steel) were adopted quickly and were in common use by the middle of the 19th century. \n\n1.    Strong, slender cast iron columns began to replace masonry piers or timber posts to carry levels above ground floor. As modern steel framing developed in the late 19th century, its strength and constructability enabled the first skyscrapers. Steel girders replaced timber beams, increasing the span of internal bays in the warehouse.\n\n2.    The saw-tooth roof brought natural light to the top storey of the warehouse. It transformed the shape of the warehouse, from the traditional peaked hip or gable to an essentially flat roof form that was often hidden behind a parapet. Warehouse buildings now became strongly horizontal. Inside the top floor, the vertical glazed pane of each saw-tooth enabled natural lighting over displayed goods, improving buyer inspection.\n\n3.    Hoists and cranes driven by steam power expanded the capacity of manual labour to lift and move heavy goods. \n\nTwo more new power sources, hydraulics and electricity, re-shaped warehouse design and practice at the end of the 19th century and into the 20th century. \n\n1.    Public hydraulic power networks were constructed in many large industrial cities around the world in the 1870s-80s, exemplified by Manchester. They were highly effective to power cranes and lifts, whose application in warehouses served taller buildings and enabled new labour efficiencies. \n\n2.    Public electricity networks emerged in the 1890s. They were used at first mainly for lighting and soon to electrify lifts, making possible taller, more efficient warehouses. It took several decades for electrical power to be distributed widely throughout cities in the western world.\n\n20th century technologies made warehousing ever more efficient. Electricity became widely available and transformed lighting, security, lifting and transport from the 1900s. The internal combustion engine, developed in the late 19th century, was installed in mass-produced vehicles from the 1910s. It not only reshaped transport methods, but enabled many applications as a compact, portable power plant, wherever small engines were needed. \n\nThe forklift truck was invented in the early 20th century, and came into wide use after World War II. Forklifts transformed the possibilities of multi-level pallet racking of goods in taller, single-level steel-framed buildings for higher storage density. The forklift, and its load fixed to a uniform pallet, enabled the rise of logistic approaches to storage in the later 20th century. \n\nThese displayed goods for the home trade. This would be finished goods- such as the latest cotton blouses or fashion items. Their street frontage was impressive, so they took the styles of Italianate Palazzi.\n\nRichard Cobden's construction in Manchester's Mosley Street was the first palazzo warehouse. There were already seven warehouses on Portland Street when they commenced building the elaborate Watts Warehouse of 1855, but four more were opened before it was finished. It was this type of warehouse that inspired the Germans in Düsseldorf and Munich to name their prestigious department stores \"Warenhäuser\".\n\nThese catered for the overseas trade. They became the meeting places for overseas wholesale buyers where printed and plain could be discussed and ordered. Trade in cloth in Manchester was conducted by many nationalities.\n\nBehrens Warehouse is on the corner of Oxford Street and Portland Street. It was built for Louis Behrens & Son by P Nunn in 1860. It is a four-storey predominantly red brick build with 23 bays along Portland Street and 9 along Oxford Street. The Behrens family were prominent in banking and in the social life of the German Community in Manchester.\nThe main purpose of packing warehouses was the picking, checking, labelling and packing of goods for export. The packing warehouses: Asia House, India House and Velvet House along Whitworth Street in Manchester were some of the tallest buildings of their time.\n\nWarehouses were built close to the major stations in railway hubs. The first railway warehouse to be built was opposite the passenger platform at the terminus of the Liverpool and Manchester Railway. There was an important group of warehouses around London Road station (now Piccadilly station).In the 1890s the Great Northern Railway Company’s warehouse was completed on Deansgate: this was the last major railway warehouse to be built.\n\nThe London Warehouse Picadilly was one of four warehouses built by the Manchester, Sheffield and Lincolnshire Railway in about 1865 to service the new London Road Station. It had its own branch to the Ashton Canal. This warehouse was built of brick with stone detailing. It had cast iron columns with wrought iron beams.\n\nAll these warehouse types can trace their origins back to the canal warehouses which were used for trans-shipment and storage. Castlefield warehouses are of this type- and important as they were built at the terminus of the Bridgewater Canal in 1761.\n\nSome of the most common warehouse storage systems are:\n\n\nA \"piece pick\" is a type of order selection process where a product is picked and handled in individual units and placed in an outer carton, tote or another container before shipping. Catalog companies and internet retailers are examples of predominantly piece-pick operations. Their customers rarely order in pallet or case quantities; instead, they typically order just one or two pieces of one or two items. Several elements make up the piece-pick system. They include the order, the picker, the pick module, the pick area, handling equipment, the container, the pick method used and the information technology used. Every movement inside a warehouse must be accompanied by a work order. Warehouse operation can fail when workers move goods without work orders, or when a storage position is left unregistered in the system.\n\nMaterial direction and tracking in a warehouse can be coordinated by a Warehouse Management System (WMS), a database driven computer program. Logistics personnel use the WMS to improve warehouse efficiency by directing pathways and to maintain accurate inventory by recording warehouse transactions.\n\nSome warehouses are completely automated, and require only operators to work and handle all the task. Pallets and product move on a system of automated conveyors, cranes and automated storage and retrieval systems coordinated by programmable logic controllers and computers running logistics automation software. These systems are often installed in refrigerated warehouses where temperatures are kept very cold to keep product from spoiling. This is especially true in electronics warehouses that require specific temperatures to avoid damaging parts. Automation is also common where land is expensive, as automated storage systems can use vertical space efficiently. These high-bay storage areas are often more than 10 meters (33 feet) high, with some over 20 meters (65 feet) high. Automated storage systems can be built up to 40m high.\n\nFor a warehouse to function efficiently, the facility must be properly \"slotted\". Slotting addresses which storage medium a product is picked from (pallet rack or carton flow), and how they are picked (pick-to-light, pick-to-voice, or pick-to-paper). With a proper slotting plan, a warehouse can improve its inventory rotation requirements—such as first in, first out (FIFO) and last in, first out (LIFO)—control labor costs and increase productivity.\n\nPallet racks are commonly used to organize a warehouse. It is important to know the dimensions of racking and the number of bays needed as well as the dimensions of the product to be stored. Clearance should be accounted for if using a forklift or pallet mover to move inventory.\n\nModern warehouses commonly use a system of wide aisle pallet racking to store goods which can be loaded and unloaded using forklift trucks.\n\nTraditional warehousing has declined since the last decades of the 20th century, with the gradual introduction of Just In Time techniques. The JIT system promotes product delivery directly from suppliers to consumer without the use of warehouses. However, with the gradual implementation of offshore outsourcing and offshoring in about the same time period, the distance between the manufacturer and the retailer (or the parts manufacturer and the industrial plant) grew considerably in many domains, necessitating at least one warehouse per country or per region in any typical supply chain for a given range of products.\n\nRecent retailing trends have led to the development of warehouse-style retail stores. These high-ceiling buildings display retail goods on tall, heavy duty industrial racks rather than conventional retail shelving. Typically, items ready for sale are on the bottom of the racks, and crated or palletized inventory is in the upper rack. Essentially, the same building serves as both warehouse and retail store.\n\nAnother trend relates to vendor-managed inventory (VMI). This gives the vendor the control to maintain the level of stock in the store. This method has its own issue that the vendor gains access to the warehouse.\n\nLarge exporters and manufacturers use warehouses as distribution points for developing retail outlets in a particular region or country. This concept reduces end cost to the consumer and enhances the production sale ratio.\n\nCross docking is a specialised type of distribution center (DC) in that little or no inventory is stored and product is received, processed (if needed) and shipped within a short timeframe. As in warehousing, there are different types of cross docks.\n\nReverse logistics is another type of warehousing that has become popular for environmental reasons. The term refers to items that are going from the end user back to the distributor or manufacturer.\n\nCold storage preserves agricultural products. Refrigerated storage helps in eliminating sprouting, rotting and insect damage. Edible products are generally not stored for more than one year. Several perishable products require a storage temperature as low as −25 °C.\n\nCold storage helps stabilize market prices and evenly distribute goods both on demand basis and time basis. The farmers get the opportunity of producing cash crops to get remunerative prices. The consumers get the supply of perishable commodities with lower fluctuation of prices.\n\nAmmonia and Freon compressors are commonly used in cold storage warehouses to maintain the temperature. Ammonia refrigerant is cheaper, easily available, and has a high latent heat of evaporation, but it is also highly toxic and can form an explosive mixture when mixed with fuel oil. Insulation is also important, to reduce loss of cold and to keep different sections of the warehouse at different temperatures.\n\nThere are two main types of refrigeration system used in cold storage warehouses: vapor absorption systems (VAS) and vapor-compression systems (VCS). VAS, although comparatively costlier to install, is more economical in operation.\n\nThe temperature necessary for preservation depends on the storage time required and the type of product. In general, there are three groups of products, foods that are alive (e.g. fruits and vegetables), foods that are no longer alive and have been processed in some form (e.g. meat and fish products), and commodities that benefit from storage at controlled temperature (e.g. beer, tobacco).\n\nLocation is important for the success of a cold storage facility. It should be in close proximity to a growing area as well as a market, be easily accessible for heavy vehicles, and have uninterrupted power supply.\n\nThere are few non-profit organizations which are focused on imparting knowledge, education and research in the field of warehouse management and its role in the supply chain industry. The Warehousing Education and Research Council (WERC) and International Warehouse Logistics Association (IWLA) in Illinois, United States. They provide professional certification and continuing education programs for the industry in the country. The Australian College of Training have government funded programs to provide personal development and continuation training in warehousing certs II – V (Diploma), they operate in Western Australia online and face to face, or Australia wide for online only courses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14569490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14569490", "title": "World Communication Awards", "text": "World Communication Awards\n\nThe World Communication Awards (WCA) were established in 1999 to recognise excellence amongst global telecom operators. The first awards were presented in Geneva during ITU Telecom '99 and were held at the Espace Sécheron More recent awards have been presented in London drawing an audience of around 500 senior executives from the telecommunications industry.\n\nOver the years, the World Communication Awards have evolved from being purely for telecom operators to encompass the broader telecom and ICT industry, with categories applicable to telecom operators and service providers, as well as vendors. In 2011 a sister event, the Asia Communication Awards was launched and is held annually in Singapore. \n\nThe World Communication Awards are organised by Total Telecom and their owners Terrapinn. It celebrated its 10th year in 2008 with fifteen categories being presented, and with the chairman of the judges being David Molony, former editor-in-chief of \"Total Telecom\" and now an analyst at consultants Ovum.\n\nOver the years the WCA have become more wide-ranging and international, with the 2007 winners including Bharti Airtel, Minick, BT, NTT Comm, SpinVox, Afsat, Orange, ip.access, Botswana Telecom, TeliaSonera, and Vivian Reding.\n\nIn 2016, Vodafone Carrier Services received the \"Best Network transformation Initiative\" award during the WCA, in London. \n\nThe 2017 edition of the WCA was marked by the nomination of Ernest Cu -President and CEO of Globe Telecom- as the \"CEO of the year\".\n\n\n\n"}
