{"id": "52273307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52273307", "title": "Acapulco Gold", "text": "Acapulco Gold\n\nAcapulco Gold is a strain of \"Cannabis sativa\" that was popular during the 1960s counterculture movement for its potency and unique colour.\n\nFirst recorded in the United States in 1964, Acapulco Gold was defined by the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" the following year as \"a special grade of cannabis growing in the vicinity of Acapulco...with a color of brownish gold, or a mixture of gold and green.\" Traditionally cultivated in the Guerrero Mountains outside the city, it is a landrace strain described as having \"mind-blowing effects\", which were attributed to a long growing season and the plant growing in conditions to which it was adapted. Smuggler and promoter Gary Tovar said that Acapulco Gold's distinctive color was the outcome of the way the plants were aged and dried by the wind off the Pacific Ocean. When cultivated outside its native range, it is considered to be substantially less potent than native plants: \"while the original genetics of Acapulco Gold can be found among global seed companies, without that blazing Acapulco sun and Gulf breezes, the end product remains an artifice, a simulacrum of what could be had in 1974.\" As early as 1975, \"New York Magazine\" claimed that the strain's original potency had already been diluted due to overplanting in response to demand.\n\nCalled \"connoisseur pot\", in the 1960s Acapulco Gold was \"a sought-after marijuana for American smokers, considered better quality than the weed growing in California or Texas.\" \"Those in the know sought Mexican Acapulco Gold for the highest of highs.\" Another report highlighted its \"exquisite taste\". Its potency was due to a THC content of 23%, making it one of the strongest strains available at the time. The strain's association with quality was such that the 1993 textbook \"Drugs, Alcohol and Mental Health\" claimed that \"Acapulco gold\" had become a generic term for high-grade marijuana.\n\nAcapulco Gold was a favorite strain of Carol Wayne, Paul Ferrara, and Jack Nicholson. Longtime NFL commissioner Pete Rozelle experimented with it around 1970, seeking to understand if marijuana would cause problems for his players. The rock duo Heth and Jed dealt Acapulco Gold as teenagers, and the drug dealer and Speedway bomber Brett Kimberlin claimed to have given some to future US Vice President Dan Quayle as a wedding present. Acapulco Gold was particularly in demand at Columbia University in the early 1970s, so much so that the university had a dedicated smuggling route via Austin, Texas.\n\nReported prices for Acapulco Gold were \"the astronomical sum of twenty dollars an ounce\" during the 1960s, $500 per kilo in 1967, and $30 an ounce in 1972. Acapulco Gold was possibly $36 per kilo at the source in mexico in 1973. For comparison, the legal price in Port Angeles, Washington was $12 per gram in November 2016.\n\nIt was incorrectly claimed as early as 1968 that the name 'Acapulco Gold' had been trademarked in anticipation of marijuana legalization; in August 1969, Harlan Ellison asserted that the trademark had been registered to tobacco company Liggett & Myers. In 1971, the term was used as a brand name for rolling papers intended to be sold to raise funds to campaign for marijuana legalization; Amorphia, the organization that backed the effort, eventually merged with NORML. The rolling papers reportedly generated most of the funding to support the 1972 California marijuana initiative Proposition 19. When the US Patent and Trademark Office briefly opened trade name registration for medical marijuana strains in 2010, Acapulco Gold was one of the trademarks submitted before the category was abandoned.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, as much as 20 percent of the Mexican marijuana being imported into the US was contaminated with the herbicide paraquat, which caused the plants to turn golden. This increased demand for the contaminated marijuana by causing it to be mistaken for higher-quality Acapulco Gold. The contamination was the result of a drug eradication program being carried on by the Mexican government to which the United States contributed $13 million annually. The Mexican Army had previously burned many of the original Acapulco Gold fields in 1967 at the urging of the US government.\n\nAcapulco Gold was one of the parents of the hybrid Skunk No. 1, which was called \"the backbone of the modern cannabis breeding world.\" In 2014, \"High Times\" magazine named Acapulco Gold one of the greatest strains of all time.\n\nAcapulco Gold has lent its name to both a California politician and an Irish racehorse.\n\nGiven its status as an icon of the counterculture movement, Acapulco Gold appeared prominently in American literature during its heyday. The 1972 novel \"Acapulco Gold\" by Edwin Corley posited that marijuana would be legalized in the near future and depicted the competition among advertising agencies to secure the first marketing account for marijuana cigarettes. The protagonists in Roberto Bolaño's novel \"The Savage Detectives\" were undiscovered writers who began trafficking in Acapulco Gold in order to fund a literary magazine, and Acapulco Gold cigarettes are described as a top brand in David Gerrold's Nebula Award-winning fix-up \"When HARLIE Was One\".\n\nHowever, the strain received its greatest tribute in Norman Spinrad's 1969 novel \"Bug Jack Barron\". Spinrad's work described a futuristic United States where marijuana usage was not only legal but commonplace, with its users including senior elected officials and major celebrities, and where the leading brand was Acapulco Golds, which were promoted on national television with Juan Valdez-style advertising:\n\nMexican peon leading burro up winding trail on jungle-covered volcanic mountain, a fruity-authoritative \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" voice over: \"In the high country of Mexico evolved a savoury strain of marijuana which came to be known as Acapulco Gold in the days of the contraband trade.\" Cut to same peon cutting a stand of marijuana with a sickle and loading it onto burro: \"Prized for its superior flavour and properties, Acapulco Gold was available only to the favoured few due to its rarity and...\" Roll to border patrolman frisking unsavoury Pancho Villa type Mexican: \"the difficulties involved in importation.\" Aerial view of huge field of geometrically-rowed marijuana: \"But now the finest strain of Mexican seeds, combined with American agricultural skill and carefully controlled growing conditions, produce a pure strain of marijuana unequalled in flavour, mildness...and relaxing properties. Now available in thirty-seven states: (Cut to close-up of red and gold Acapulco Golds pack.) Acapulco Golds, America's premium quality marijuana cigarette—and, of course, totally noncarcinogenic.\n\nThe use of Acapulco Gold is common in L. Ron Hubbard's \"Mission Earth\" novels, including \"Voyage of Vengeance\", \"An Alien Affair\", and \"Death Quest\". Acapulco Gold also appears in works by Oscar Zeta Acosta, Hunter S. Thompson, Darryl Pinckney, Jonathan Raban, Guillermo Cabrera Infante, David Foster Wallace, and Carol Berge.\n\nLinguist Jean-Charles Seigneuret attributed the strain's literary popularity to its role as a \"psychedelic Philosopher's Stone\" which served \"to transform the metaphorical lead of the harried, detribalized modern conscience into the 'gold' latent in 'Acapulco gold.'\"\n\nThe strain gave its name to a 1976 smuggling film which starred former evangelist Marjoe Gortner, Robert Lansing, and Ed Nelson, and was directed by Burt Brinckerhoff. \"Acapulco Gold\" was also the title of a 1973 mockumentary by Bob Grosvenor about the history of marijuana cultivation and the efforts of a group of college students to smuggle Mexico's \"super weed\" into the United States. Several years earlier, Mick Jagger's character in \"Performance\" had been depicted as a user of Acapulco Gold.\n\nAcapulco Gold's best-known appearance in film was in 1978's \"Up in Smoke\", starring the comedy duo Cheech & Chong. \"I can smoke anything, man,\" Cheech Marin's character Pedro bragged. \"You know like I smoke that Michoacán, and Acapulco Gold, man.\" The duo's debut album seven years before had featured a track titled \"Acapulco Gold Filters\", which included the lyrics, \"No stems no seeds that you don't need, Acapulco Gold is some badass weed.\"\n\nDuring the first season of \"Saturday Night Live\", Desi Arnaz thanked the crew of the show for presenting him with a box of Acapulco Gold cigars.\n\nPsychedelic pop group The Rainy Daze released a 1967 album titled \"That Acapulco Gold\", portraying Mexico as a far-off land where \"the streets are lined with bricks of that Acapulco Gold\". The title track reached #70 on the Billboard Hot 100 before being pulled from circulation for promoting marijuana use. Vice President Spiro Agnew later denounced the song as \"blatant drug-culture propaganda...threatening to destroy our national strength\".\n\nThe New Riders of the Purple Sage included a song called \"Henry\" on their debut album, which described an attempt to smuggle 20 kilos of Acapulco Gold out of Mexico. Led Zeppelin paid tribute to the strain in the live versions of the song \"Over the Hills and Far Away\". More recently, Johnathan Rice's album \"Good Graces\" included a track titled \"Acapulco Gold\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "183144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=183144", "title": "Animal sacrifice", "text": "Animal sacrifice\n\nAnimal sacrifice is the ritual killing and offering of an animal usually as part of a religious ritual or to appease or maintain favour with a deity. Animal sacrifices were common throughout Europe and the Ancient Near East until Late Antiquity, and continue in some cultures or religions today. Human sacrifice, where it existed, was always much more rare. \n\nAll or only part of a sacrificial animal may be offered; some cultures, like the ancient and modern Greeks, eat most of the edible parts of the sacrifice in a feast, and burnt the rest as an offering. Others, including the ancient Hebrews, burnt the whole animal offering, called a holocaust. \n\nAnimal sacrifice should generally be distinguished from the religiously-prescribed methods of ritual slaughter of animals for normal consumption as food.\nDuring the Neolithic Revolution, early humans began to move from hunter-gatherer cultures toward agriculture, leading to the spread of animal domestication. In a theory presented in \"Homo Necans\", mythologist Walter Burkert suggests that the ritual sacrifice of livestock may have developed as a continuation of ancient hunting rituals, as livestock replaced wild game in the food supply. \n\nAncient Egypt was at the forefront of domestication, and some of the earliest archeological evidence suggesting animal sacrifice comes from Egypt. The oldest Egyptian burial sites containing animal remains originate from the Badari culture of Upper Egypt, which flourished between 4400 and 4000 BC. Sheep and goats were found buried in their own graves at one site, while at another site gazelles were found at the feet of several human burials. At a cemetery uncovered at Hierakonpolis and dated to 3000 BC, the remains of a much wider variety of animals were found, including non-domestic species such as baboons and hippopotami, which may have been sacrificed in honor of powerful former citizens or buried near their former owners. According to Herodotus, later Dynastic Egyptian animal sacrifice became restricted to livestock - sheep, cattle, swine and geese - with sets of rituals and rules to describe each type of sacrifice.\n\nBy the end of Copper Age in 3000 BC, animal sacrifice had become a common practice across many cultures, and appeared to have become more generally restricted to domestic livestock. At Gath, archeological evidence indicates that the Canaanites imported sacrificial sheep and goats from Egypt rather than selecting from their own livestock. At the Monte d'Accoddi in Sardinia, one of the earliest known sacred centers in Europe, evidence of the sacrifice of sheep, cattle and swine has been uncovered by excavations, and it is indicated that ritual sacrifice may have been common across Italy around 3000 BC and afterwards. At the Minoan settlement of Phaistos in ancient Crete, excavations have revealed basins for animal sacrifice dating to the period 2000 to 1700 BC.\n\nAnimal sacrifice was general among the ancient Near Eastern civilizations of Ancient Mesopotamia, Egypt and Persia, as well as the Hebrews (covered below). Unlike the Greeks, who had worked out a justification for keeping the best edible parts of the sacrifice for the assembled humans to eat, in these cultures the whole animal was normally placed on the fire by the altar and burned, or sometimes it was buried.\n\nWorship in ancient Greek religion typically consisted of sacrificing domestic animals at the altar with hymn and prayer. The altar was outside any temple building, and might not be associated with a temple at all. The animal, which should be perfect of its kind, is decorated with garlands and the like, and led in procession to the altar, a girl with a basket on her head containing the concealed knife leading the way. After various rituals the animal is slaughtered over the altar, as it falls all the women present \"must cry out in high, shrill tones\". Its blood is collected and poured over the altar. It is butchered on the spot and various internal organs, bones and other inedible parts burnt as the deity's portion of the offering, while the meat is removed to be prepared for the participants to eat; the leading figures tasting it on the spot. The temple usually kept the skin, to sell to tanners. That the humans got more use from the sacrifice than the deity had not escaped the Greeks, and is often the subject of humour in Greek comedy.\n\nThe animals used are, in order of preference, bull or ox, cow, sheep (the most common), goat, pig (with piglet the cheapest mammal), and poultry (but rarely other birds or fish). Horses and asses are seen on some vases in the Geometric style (900-750 BC), but are very rarely mentioned in literature; they were relatively late introductions to Greece, and it has been suggested that Greek preferences in this matter go very far back. The Greeks liked to believe that the animal was glad to be sacrificed, and interpreted various behaviours as showing this. Divination by examining parts of the sacrificed animal was much less important than in Roman or Etruscan religion, or Near Eastern religions, but was practiced, especially of the liver, and as part of the cult of Apollo. Generally, the Greeks put more faith in observing the behaviour of birds. For a smaller and simpler offering, a grain of incense could be thrown on the sacred fire, and outside the cities farmers made simple sacrificial gifts of plant produce as the \"first fruits\" were harvested. Although the grand form of sacrifice called the hecatomb (meaning 100 bulls) might in practice only involve a dozen or so, at large festivals the number of cattle sacrificed could run into the hundreds, and the numbers feasting on them well into the thousands. The enormous Hellenistic structures of the Altar of Hieron and Pergamon Altar were built for such occasions.\nThe evidence of the existence of such practices is clear in some ancient Greek literature, especially in Homer's epics. Throughout the poems, the use of the ritual is apparent at banquets where meat is served, in times of danger or before some important endeavor to gain the favor of the gods. For example, in Homer's \"Odyssey\" Eumaeus sacrifices a pig with prayer for his unrecognizable master Odysseus. However, in Homer's \"Iliad\", which partly reflects very early Greek civilization, not every banquet of the princes begins with a sacrifice.\n\nThese sacrificial practices, described in these pre-Homeric eras, share commonalities to the 8th century forms of sacrificial rituals. Furthermore, throughout the poem, special banquets are held whenever gods indicated their presence by some sign or success in war. Before setting out for Troy, this type of animal sacrifice is offered. Odysseus offers Zeus a sacrificial ram in vain. The occasions of sacrifice in Homer's epic poems may shed some light onto the view of the gods as members of society, rather than as external entities, indicating social ties. Sacrificial rituals played a major role in forming the relationship between humans and the divine.\n\nIt has been suggested that the Chthonic deities, distinguished from Olympic deities by typically being offered the holocaust mode of sacrifice, where the offering is wholly burnt, may be remnants of the native Pre-Hellenic religion and that many of the Olympian deities may come from the Proto-Greeks who overran the southern part of the Balkan Peninsula in the late third millennium BC.\n\nIn the Hellenistic period after the death of Alexander the Great in 323 BC, several new philosophical movements began to question the ethics of animal sacrifice.\n\nAccording to the unique account by the Greek author Herodotus (c 484–c 425 BC), the Scythians sacrificed various kinds of livestock, though the most prestigious offering was considered to be the horse. The pig, on the other hand, was never offered in sacrifice, and apparently the Scythians were loath to keep swine within their lands. Herodotus describes the Scythian manner of sacrifice as follows:\n\nHerodotus goes on to describe the human sacrifice of prisoners, conducted in a different manner.\n\nThe most potent offering in Ancient Roman religion was animal sacrifice, typically of domesticated animals such as cattle, sheep and pigs. Each was the best specimen of its kind, cleansed, clad in sacrificial regalia and garlanded; the horns of oxen might be gilded. Sacrifice sought the harmonisation of the earthly and divine, so the victim must seem willing to offer its own life on behalf of the community; it must remain calm and be quickly and cleanly dispatched.\n\nSacrifice to deities of the heavens (\"di superi\", \"gods above\") was performed in daylight, and under the public gaze. Deities of the upper heavens required white, infertile victims of their own sex: Juno a white heifer (possibly a white cow); Jupiter a white, castrated ox (\"bos mas\") for the annual oath-taking by the consuls. \"Di superi\" with strong connections to the earth, such as Mars, Janus, Neptune and various \"genii\" – including the Emperor's – were offered fertile victims. After the sacrifice, a banquet was held; in state cults, the images of honoured deities took pride of place on banqueting couches and by means of the sacrificial fire consumed their proper portion (\"exta\", the innards). Rome's officials and priests reclined in order of precedence alongside and ate the meat; lesser citizens may have had to provide their own.\n\nChthonic gods such as Dis pater, the \"di inferi\" (\"gods below\"), and the collective shades of the departed \"(di Manes)\" were given dark, fertile victims in nighttime rituals. Animal sacrifice usually took the form of a holocaust or burnt offering, and there was no shared banquet, as \"the living cannot share a meal with the dead\". Ceres and other underworld goddesses of fruitfulness were sometimes offered pregnant female animals; Tellus was given a pregnant cow at the Fordicidia festival. Color had a general symbolic value for sacrifices. Demigods and heroes, who belonged to the heavens and the underworld, were sometimes given black-and-white victims. Robigo (or Robigus) was given red dogs and libations of red wine at the Robigalia for the protection of crops from blight and red mildew.\n\nA sacrifice might be made in thanksgiving or as an expiation of a sacrilege or potential sacrilege (\"piaculum\");\na \"piaculum\" might also be offered as a sort of advance payment; the Arval Brethren, for instance, offered a \"piaculum\" before entering their sacred grove with an iron implement, which was forbidden, as well as after. \nThe pig was a common victim for a \"piaculum\".\nThe same divine agencies who caused disease or harm also had the power to avert it, and so might be placated in advance. Divine consideration might be sought to avoid the inconvenient delays of a journey, or encounters with banditry, piracy and shipwreck, with due gratitude to be rendered on safe arrival or return. In times of great crisis, the Senate could decree collective public rites, in which Rome's citizens, including women and children, moved in procession from one temple to the next, supplicating the gods.\n\nExtraordinary circumstances called for extraordinary sacrifice: in one of the many crises of the Second Punic War, Jupiter Capitolinus was promised every animal born that spring (see \"ver sacrum\"), to be rendered after five more years of protection from Hannibal and his allies. The \"contract\" with Jupiter is exceptionally detailed. All due care would be taken of the animals. If any died or were stolen before the scheduled sacrifice, they would count as already sacrificed, since they had already been consecrated. Normally, if the gods failed to keep their side of the bargain, the offered sacrifice would be withheld. In the imperial period, sacrifice was withheld following Trajan's death because the gods had not kept the Emperor safe for the stipulated period. In Pompeii, the Genius of the living emperor was offered a bull: presumably a standard practise in Imperial cult, though minor offerings (incense and wine) were also made.\n\nThe \"exta\" were the entrails of a sacrificed animal, comprising in Cicero's enumeration the gall bladder (\"fel\"), liver (\"iecur\"), heart (\"cor\"), and lungs (\"pulmones\"). The \"exta\" were exposed for litatio (divine approval) as part of Roman liturgy, but were \"read\" in the context of the \"disciplina Etrusca\". As a product of Roman sacrifice, the \"exta\" and blood are reserved for the gods, while the meat \"(viscera)\" is shared among human beings in a communal meal. The \"exta\" of bovine victims were usually stewed in a pot (\"olla\" or \"aula\"), while those of sheep or pigs were grilled on skewers. When the deity's portion was cooked, it was sprinkled with \"mola salsa\" (ritually prepared salted flour) and wine, then placed in the fire on the altar for the offering; the technical verb for this action was \"porricere\".\n\nToo little is known about either Celtic paganism or the earlier Germanic equivalent to be confident about their practices, other than the claims of Roman sources that human sacrifice was included - they do not bother to report on the less sensational sacrifice of animals. In the rather later Norse paganism, the blót sacrifice and feast is better recorded. Like the Greeks, the Norse seem to have eaten most of the sacrifice; human prisoners were also sometimes sacrificed.\n\nIn Judaism, the \"qorban\" is any of a variety of sacrificial offerings described and commanded in the Torah. The most common usages are animal sacrifice (\"zevah\" זֶבַח), \"zevah shelamim\" (the peace offering) and \"olah\" (the \"holocaust\" or burnt offering). A \"qorban\" was an animal sacrifice, such as a bull, sheep, goat, or a dove that underwent \"shechita\" (Jewish ritual slaughter). Sacrifices could also consist grain, meal, wine, or incense.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible says that Yahweh commanded the Israelites to offer offerings and sacrifices on various altars. The sacrifices were only to be offered by the hands of the Kohanim. Before building the Temple in Jerusalem, when the Israelites were in the desert, sacrifices were offered only in the Tabernacle. After building Solomon's Temple, sacrifices were allowed only there. After the Temple was destroyed, sacrifices was resumed when the Second Temple was built until it was also destroyed in 70 CE. After the destruction of the Second Temple sacrifices were prohibited because there was no longer a Temple, the only place allowed by \"halakha\" for sacrifices. Offering of sacrifices was briefly reinstated during the Jewish–Roman wars of the second century CE and was continued in certain communities thereafter.\n\nThe Samaritans, a group historically related to the Jews, practice animal sacrifice in accordance with the Law of Moses.\n\nReferences to animal sacrifice appear in the New Testament, such as the parents of Jesus sacrificing two doves () and the Apostle Paul performing a Nazirite vow even after the death of Christ ().\n\nChrist is referred to by his apostles as \"the Lamb of God\", the one to whom all sacrifices pointed (Hebrews 10). According to the penal substitution theory of atonement, Christ's crucifixion is comparable to animal sacrifice on a large scale as his death serves as a substitutionary punishment for all of humanity's sins.\n\nThough never a part of the doctrine or theology of any Christian group (and often attracting criticism), some rural Christian communities have continued to sacrifice animals (which are then consumed in a feast) as part of worship, especially at Easter. The animal may be brought into the church before being taken out again and killed. Some villages in Greece sacrifice animals to Orthodox saints in a practice known as kourbania. Sacrifice of a lamb, or less commonly a rooster, is a common practice in Armenian Church, and the Tewahedo Church of Ethiopia and Eritrea. This tradition, called matagh, is believed to stem from pre-Christian pagan rituals. Additionally, some Mayans following a form of Folk Catholicism in Mexico today still sacrifice animals in conjunction with church practices, a ritual practiced in past religions before the arrival of the Spaniards.\n\nAnimal sacrifice was instituted in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints (Strangite), a minor Latter Day Saint faction founded by James J. Strang in 1844. Strang's Book of the Law of the Lord (1851) deals with the topic of animal sacrifice in chapters 7 and 40.\n\nGiven the prohibition on sacrifices for sin contained in III Nephi 9:19-20 (Book of Mormon), Strang did not require sin offerings. Rather, he focused on sacrifice as an element of religious celebrations, especially the commemoration of his own coronation as king over his church, which occurred on July 8, 1850. The head of every house, from the king to his lowest subject, was to offer \"a heifer, or a lamb, or a dove. Every man a clean beast, or a clean fowl, according to his household.\"\n\nWhile the killing of sacrifices was a prerogative of Strangite priests, female priests were specifically barred from participating in this aspect of the priestly office. \"Firstfruits\" offerings were also demanded of all Strangite agricultural harvests. Animal sacrifices are no longer practiced by the Strangite organization, though belief in their correctness is still required.\n\nNeither The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints nor the Community of Christ, the two largest Latter Day Saint factions, ever accepted Strang's teachings on this (or any other) subject.\n\nMuslims engaged in the Hajj (pilgrimage) are obliged to sacrifice a lamb or a goat or join others in sacrificing a cow or a camel during the celebration of the Eid al-Adha, an Arabic term that means \"Feast of Sacrifice\", also known as \"al-Id al-Kabir\" (Great Feast), or \"Qurban Bayrami\" (Sacrifice Feast) in Turkic influenced cultures, \"Bakar Id\" (Goat Feast) in Indian subcontinent and \"Reraya Qurben\" in Indonesia. Other Muslims not on the Hajj to Mecca also participate in this sacrifice wherever they are, on the 10th day of the 12th lunar month in the Islamic calendar. It is understood as a symbolic re-enactment of Abraham's sacrifice of a ram in place of his son. Meat from this occasion is divided into three parts, one part is kept by the sacrificing family for food, the other gifted to friends and family, and the third given to the poor Muslims. The sacrificed animal is a sheep, goat, cow or camel. The feast follows a communal prayer at a mosque or open air.\nThe animal sacrifice during the Hajj is a part of nine step pilgrimage ritual. It is, states Campo, preceded by a statement to intention and body purification, inaugural circumambulation of the Kaaba seven times, running between Marwa and Safa hills, encampment at Mina, standing in Arafat, stoning the three Mina satanic pillars with at least forty nine pebbles. Thereafter, animal sacrifice, and this is followed by farewell circumambulation of the Kaaba. The Muslims who are not on Hajj also perform a simplified ritual animal sacrifice. According to Campo, the animal sacrifice at the annual Islamic festival has origins in western Arabia in vogue before Islam. The animal sacrifice, states Philip Stewart, is not required by the Quran, but is based on interpretations of other Islamic texts.\nThe Eid al-Adha is major annual festival of animal sacrifice in Islam. In Indonesia alone, for example, some 800,000 animals were sacrificed in 2014 by its Muslims on the festival, but the number can be a bit lower or higher depending on the economic conditions. According to Lesley Hazleton, in Turkey about 2,500,000 sheep, cows and goats are sacrificed each year to observe the Islamic festival of animal sacrifice, with a part of the sacrificed animal given to the needy who didn't sacrifice an animal. According to \"The Independent\", nearly 10,000,000 animals are sacrificed in Pakistan every year on Eid. Countries such as Saudi Arabia transport nearly a million animals every year for sacrifice to Mina (near Mecca). The sacrificed animals at Id al-Adha, states Clarke Brooke, include the four species considered lawful for the Hajj sacrifice: sheep, goats, camels and cattle, and additionally, cow-like animals initialing the water buffalo, domesticated banteng and yaks. Many are brought in from north Africa and parts of Asia.\n\nOther occasions when Muslims perform animal sacrifice include the \"'aqiqa\", when a child is seven days old, is shaved and given a name. It is believed that the animal sacrifice binds the child to Islam and offers protection to the child from evil.\n\nKilling of animals by dhabihah is ritual slaughter rather than sacrifice.\n\nPractices of Hindu animal sacrifice are mostly associated with Shaktism, and in currents of folk Hinduism strongly rooted in local tribal traditions. Animal sacrifices were carried out in ancient times in India. Hindu scriptures, including the Gita, and the Puranas forbid animal sacrifice.\nAnimal sacrifice is a part of some Durga puja celebrations during the Navratri in eastern states of India. The goddess is offered sacrificial animal in this ritual in the belief that it stimulates her violent vengeance against the buffalo demon. According to Christopher Fuller, the animal sacrifice practice is rare among Hindus during Navratri, or at other times, outside the Shaktism tradition found in the eastern Indian states of West Bengal, Odisha and Assam. Further, even in these states, the festival season is one where significant animal sacrifices are observed. In some Shakta Hindu communities, the slaying of buffalo demon and victory of Durga is observed with a symbolic sacrifice instead of animal sacrifice.\n\nThe Rajput of Rajasthan worship their weapons and horses on Navratri, and formerly offered a sacrifice of a goat to a goddess revered as Kuldevi – a practice that continues in some places. The ritual requires slaying of the animal with a single stroke. In the past this ritual was considered a rite of passage into manhood and readiness as a warrior. The \"Kuldevi\" among these Rajput communities is a warrior-pativrata guardian goddess, with local legends tracing reverence for her during Rajput-Muslim wars.\n\nThe tradition of animal sacrifice is being substituted with vegetarian offerings to the Goddess in temples and households around Banaras in Northern India.\nThere are Hindu temples in Assam and West Bengal India and Nepal where goats, chickens and sometimes Water buffalos are sacrificed. These sacrifices are performed mainly at temples following the Shakti school of Hinduism where the female nature of Brahman is worshipped in the form of Kali and Durga. There are many village temples in Tamil Nadu where this kind of sacrifice takes place.\n\nIn some Sacred groves of India, particularly in Western Maharashtra, animal sacrifice is practiced to pacify female deities that are supposed to rule the Groves.\n\nAnimal sacrifice \"en masse\" occurs during the three-day-long Gadhimai festival in Nepal. In 2009 it was speculated that more than 250,000 animals were killed while 5 million devotees attended the festival.\n\nIn India, ritual of animal sacrifice is practised in many villages before local deities or certain powerful and terrifying forms of the Devi. In this form of worship, animals, usually goats, are decapitated and the blood is offered to deity often by smearing some of it on a post outside the temple. or instance, \"Kandhen Budhi\" is the reigning deity of Kantamal in Boudh district of Orissa, India. Every year, animals like goat and fowl are sacrificed before the deity on the occasion of her annual \"Yatra\"/\"Jatra\" (festival) held in the month of \"Aswina\" (September–October). The main attraction of \"Kandhen Budhi Yatra\" is \"Ghusuri Puja\". \"Ghusuri\" means a child pig, which is sacrificed to the goddess every three years. Kandhen Budhi is also worshipped at Lather village under Mohangiri GP in Kalahandi district of Orissa, India.(Pasayat, 2009:20-24).\n\nThe religious belief of \"Tabuh Rah\", a form of animal sacrifice of Balinese Hinduism includes a religious cockfight where a rooster is used in religious custom by allowing him to fight against another rooster in a religious and spiritual cockfight, a spiritual appeasement exercise of \"Tabuh Rah\". The spilling of blood is necessary as purification to appease the evil spirits, and ritual fights follow an ancient and complex ritual as set out in the sacred \"lontar\" manuscripts.\n\nBuddhism and Taoism generally prohibit killing of animals; some animal offerings, such as fowl, pigs, goats, fish, or other livestock, are accepted in some Taoism sects and beliefs in Chinese folk religion.\n\nIn Kaohsiung, Taiwan, animal sacrifices are banned in Taoist temples.\n\nIn Japan, Iomante was a traditional bear sacrifice that was practiced by the Ainu people.\n\nAnimal sacrifice is regularly practiced in traditional African and Afro-American religions.\n\nThe landmark decision by the Supreme Court of the United States in the case of the Church of Lukumi Babalu Aye v. City of Hialeah in 1993 upheld the right of Santería adherents to practice ritual animal sacrifice in the United States of America.\nLikewise in Texas in 2009, legal and religious issues that related to animal sacrifice, animal rights and freedom of religion were taken to the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in the case of \"Jose Merced, President Templo Yoruba Omo Orisha Texas, Inc., v. City of Euless.\" The court ruling that the Merced case of the freedom of exercise of religion was meritorious and prevailing and that Merced was entitled under the Texas Religious Freedom and Restoration Act (TRFRA) to an injunction preventing the city of Euless, Texas from enforcing its ordinances that burdened his religious practices relating to the use of animals, (see Tex. Civ. Prac. & Rem. Code § 110.005(a)(2)).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "889075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=889075", "title": "Argyreia nervosa", "text": "Argyreia nervosa\n\nArgyreia nervosa is a perennial climbing vine native to the Indian subcontinent and introduced to numerous areas worldwide, including Hawaii, Africa, and the Caribbean. Though it can be invasive, it is often prized for its aesthetic and medicinal value. Common names include Hawaiian baby woodrose, adhoguda अधोगुडा or vidhara विधारा (Sanskrit), elephant creeper and woolly morning glory. Its seeds are known for their powerful entheogenic value, greater or similar to its varieties from Convolvulaceae family, with the users reporting significant psychedelic and spiritual experiences . The two botanical varieties are \"A. n.\" var. \"nervosa\" described here, and \"A. n.\" var. \"speciosa\", which are used in Ayurvedic medicine and have great medicinal values.\n\n\"Argyreia nervosa\" seeds contain various ergoline alkaloids such as ergine. A study reported stereoisomers of ergine to be found in the seeds at a concentration of 0.325% of dry weight. A much recent study reported presence of ergometrine, lysergol, lysergic acid and other alkaloids that contribute to its pharmacological effects.\n\nWhile several other plants in the Convolvulaceae family, such as \"Rivea corymbosa\" (ololiuhqui) and \"Ipomoea tricolor\" (tlitliltzin), were used in shamanic rituals of Latin America for centuries, \"A. nervosa\" was not traditionally used for this purpose. Its properties were first brought to attention in the 1960s.\n\nWhere temperatures fall below 13C (55F), grow in a warm greenhouse. Elsewhere, grow on an arbour, pergola, or wall, or through a tree. Under glass, grow in a loam-based potting compost (John Innes No. 3) in full light. From spring to autumn, water freely and apply a balanced liquid fertilizer monthly; reduce water in winter. Outdoors, grow in moderately fertile, moist but well-drained soil in full sun. Pruning group 11, in late winter.\n\nThe seeds of \"A. nervosa\" have been found to contain numerous chemical compounds.\n\nHuna shamans used them according to various oral histories. The seeds of \"Argyreia nervosa\" produce psychoactive effects. They contain ergot alkaloids varying considerably in concentration with LSA weight ranging between exactly similar looking seeds from 3 μg to 34 μg (avg 17 μg). However, in its effects, LSA is about one tenth as potent as its cousin LSD, making a threshold dose level for LSA about 500 μg. The psychoactive effects of the seeds may therefore be due to other alkaloids present in them and the safe and effective dose may be difficult to predict.\n\n"}
{"id": "39947893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39947893", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Botswana", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Botswana\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled together in the book \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The eighth and twelfth of the tablets mentioned Africa and were written on April 19, 1916 and February 15, 1917, respectively. Publication however was delayed in the United States until 1919—after the end of the First World War and the Spanish flu. The tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on April 4, 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on December 12, 1919. `Abdu'l-Bahá mentions Bahá'ís traveling \"…especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and travel through Japan and China. Likewise, from Germany teachers and believers may travel to the continents of America, Africa, Japan and China; in brief, they may travel through all the continents and islands of the globe\" and \" …the anthem of the oneness of the world of humanity may confer a new life upon all the children of men, and the tabernacle of universal peace be pitched on the apex of America; thus Europe and Africa may become vivified with the breaths of the Holy Spirit, this world may become another world, the body politic may attain to a new exhilaration….\"\n\nThe religion arrived in the area during the end of the era of the Bechuanaland Protectorate, the predecessor colonial country, under the Union of South Africa. In 1953 Shoghi Effendi, head of the religion after the death of `Abdu'l-Bahá, planned an international teaching plan termed the Ten Year Crusade. During the plan pioneers moved to many countries including Botswana from places. This was during a period of wide scale growth in the religion across Sub-Saharan Africa near the end of the period of Colonisation of Africa. The goal of establishing a Bahá'í presence in Bechuanaland was assigned to the National Assembly of Iran then still in operation. However by November 1953 recent arrivals the Johnsons from America then in South Africa saw the arrival of John and Audrey Robarts and son Patrick and daughter Nina from Canada who were assisted in reaching Mafeking (then in Bechuanaland) as Bahá'í pioneers where they arrived by October 1954 and were recognized as the first Bahá'ís to the country earning the title Knight of Bahá'u'lláh from the then head of the Faith, Shoghi Effendi. The Robarts had joined the religion in 1938 and when the first National Spiritual Assembly of Canada was formed in 1948, John was elected chairman, a post he held until 1953 when they moved. In 1954 Hand of the Cause, Musa Banani appointed John as an Auxiliary Board Member and the family went on Bahá'í pilgrimage. In 2005 Lally Warren recalled that as a young child in Mafikeng it had been unusual to meet white people who were pleasant to her so she believed that all white people were bad. That changed when she met the Robarts family. \"The Robarts didn't treat me like a black child, they treated me as a child,\" she said. She recalled when she was 10 and the Robarts family came to her house for meetings with her parents, James and Stella Moncho, the first local couple to become Bahá'ís, \"They could only do this at night, and as they came towards the house they would switch their [car] lights on and off to say, 'Is it ok, is it safe, can we come?'…There was no electricity in the black area during those days so my mother would take a lantern and stick it out through the window and wave it to say, 'OK, it's safe for you to come.'\"\n\nThe Robarts family befriended Modiri Molema, a highly respected medical doctor and the only black man who was permitted to associate with whites. Dr. Molema invited his friends and family to hear about the religion, and he gave the Robarts family letters of introduction to the Kgosi (traditional chiefs) of the Bechuanaland Protectorate. Dr. Molema converted to the religion but his enrollment was not made public because of likely harassment due to his previous high-profile political involvement. In 1955 his relative, Stanlake Kukama, became the first native Tswana of Bechuanaland to become a publicly declared Bahá'í. In 2005 Kukama recalled he had been an anti-apartheid activist, and was a member of the South African political party, the African National Congress and had detested white people because of their attitude towards Africans but that changed when he heard about the Bahá'í Faith from the Robarts family: \"In 1955 I heard of the Bahá'í Faith and [found] the principles of the Faith were the solution to [achieve] peace and harmony for mankind.… I realized that the white and the black were all blind. They did not see the truth, they did not have the eye of the soul. Hence, I became a Bahá'í, and renounced man-made solutions to peace.\" The African National Congress tried to woo back Mr. Kukama for many years without success. The police kept him under surveillance even after he became a Bahá'í because they did not believe that he had given up partisan politics. Mr. Kukama later served for many years both as a member of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Bophuthatswana and of South Africa.\n\nIn April 1956 the Bahá'í Faith was present in small numbers across 15 countries of southern Africa. To administer these communities a regional National Spiritual Assembly was elected in South West Africa to cover them. In 1956 John Robarts was elected to it.\n\nBy early 1957 the Bahá'í community numbered between 10 and 20 individuals and became part of the regional national assembly of South and West Africa. By 1963 there were two assemblies; seven groups, and one isolated member. The assemblies were in Lobatse, and Mahalapye and groups in Gaborone, Ghanzi, Kopong, Mafeking, Molepolole, Morwa, Serowe, and a lone Bahá'í in Moeng (which is near the Tswapong Hills).\n\nFollowing the death of Shoghi Effendi, the elected Universal House of Justice was head of the religion and began to re-organized the Bahá'í communities of Africa, including Botswana, by splitting off national communities to form their own National Assemblies from 1964 though the 1990s. In 1967 the newly elected regional assembly of South Central Africa, then comprised the countries of Botswana, Malawi and Rhodesia. Its members were: Willard Mahtunge, Florence Fat'he-Aazam, Esther Moncho, Esther Glauder, Brian Eames, Enayat Sohaili, Leonard Chiposi, Helen A. Hope, and John D. Sargent Sr. There were ten delegates, sixty additional visitors for the fourth annual convention, held in Salisbury, Rhodesia.\n\nIn 1970 the first National Youth School in Botswana was attended by over thirty youth, adults and teachers. Following the classes the youth visited three villages previously arranged by the national assembly with the approval of the local chiefs where they presented a well received speech especially prepared for them. Because of the reception of the speech they were invited to a further six villages by the chiefs of those villages ultimately presenting the religion to almost 700 attendees of the presentations. Coverage of the tour was also done on local radio. Later the first Bahá'ís from the Bushmen and the Kgalagadi had joined the religion.\n\nThe time came for the election of Botswana's Bahá'í National Spiritual Assembly elected in 1970. Its members in the 1971 re-election were: Stanley Matenge, Esther Moncho, Isaac Kgang, Dennis Makiwa, Maureen Gruber, Robert Sarracino, Bogatlu Pheto, Jeffrey Gruber, and Broer Oageng.\n\nIn August 1971 the first public talks on the religion in Gaborone were undertaken and was broadcast over Radio Botswana on the topic of \"African Traditional Beliefs and the Unity of the World Religions\". A review of the community then noted that the national assembly and five local assemblies had incorporated and registered with the government. The national assembly then became legal owners of the national Bahá'í center. Sixty-seven localities had been introduced to the religion and translations of some Bahá'í scripture had been accomplished. Some forty chiefs at various levels had been sent messages by the national assembly about the religion. Fifty-seven villages had been visited with mass meetings resulting. There were only four pioneers present then. The village of Boneapitse was noted as being a majority of Bahá'ís.\n\nAn all-Bushman local assembly was first elected in Tshasane in 1972. When it was re-elected in 1973 its members were: <nowiki>Ci-!Gau, !'ea, Titi, Diolo, Kaka, Mashipa, N!!g\"ae-!Nobo, Baberi, Mpalo.</nowiki>\n\nThe first national summer school happened Dec 29 to Jan 4 1979-1980 and was followed by a regional conference on the promulgation on the religion with participation of Lobatse, Jwaneng, and Kanye in addition to members of the national assembly and auxiliary board members in February. In August 1981 Botswana's first international conference was attended by 150 adults and children from seven countries.\n\nIn 1984 the Bahá'is of Gaborone held a few public meetings - one highlighted UN Day at which several city officials attended, another was with visiting Counsellor Hooper Dunbar which was also covered by television and radio news. In 1985 the Bahá'ís were invited to a seminar on religions at the University of Batswana. More than 100 youth met for an international youth conference in August that was opened by the then vice-president of Botswana - Peter Mmusi. That year was also the one when the Universal House of Justice's The Promise of World Peace was delivered to Botswana's then president, Quett Masire as well as translated in Tswana as part of the overall observance of the UN's International Year of Peace. A survey of international standings of the religion in 1987 found that while Botswana had national and local assemblies recognized legally the Bahá'í Holy Days, marriages and tax exemption as a religion were not recognized.\n\nHands of the Cause are a select group of Bahá'ís, appointed for life, whose main function was to propagate and protect the religion. In May 1972 Hand of the Cause Adelbert Mühlschlegel was the first to tour Botswana.\n\nIn November 1972 Hand of the Cause Enoch Olinga toured the country and visited three of the then newest and most active Bahá'í communities in Botswana - Ratholo and Bonwapitse (both in the Tswapong Hills area), and Palla Road (aka Dinokwe) He reviewed understanding the religion in a non-literalist way, elaborated on the principals of the religion like of unity of humanity, progressive revelation, and that the religion was present in many countries beyond their lands despite the fact that school books did not mention the religion. Later he gave a public talk entitled \"The Bahá'í Faith and the Social Order\" and a radio interview in Gaborone where he addressed wide-ranging topics from the definition of the word \"Bahá'í\", the history of the religion, its relationship with Christianity and the difficulties with social norms in South Africa.\n\nIn June 1973 Hand of the Cause Ruhiyyih Khanum toured the country for some 20 days. She was met an hour's walk from the village of Selebi-Phikwe by a new mother with a week-old baby. At a few villages including Seleka she met with local school teachers. She congratulated the pioneers that were well out in the countryside rather than clustered in the capital. At another village she spoke at a teacher's training college noting the Bahá'í teaching of equality of the sexes and the importance of mothers and teachers, eliminating illiteracy but that matters of faith are not dependent on book learning. In Bonwapitse she addressed the importance of prayer, the meaning of \"Alláh'u'Abhá\". In Mmutlane she addressed the topic of dreams related about Bahá'u'lláh and the Báb. She went on to other villages and illustrated diverse responses to faith. In the Kalahari Desert she met with Bushmen when only a few had joined the religion so far hoping the religion would help preserve their qualities of gentleness and goodness. Then she met with the national assembly especially about the topic of the Bahá'í view of \"consultation\", that the Bahá'í funds are to be spent on specific purposes for the promulgation of the religion. At Lobatse she spoke at another teacher's training college on the importance of youth. The final village was Good Hope where she met the first Bahá'ís of Botswana -Mr. and Mrs. Moncho.\n\nIn March 1978 Hand of the Cause H. Collis Featherstone toured Botswana for a week speaking of the Bahá'í views on themes of the religion and presented an address on radio. In April John Robarts, who was appointed a Hand of the Cause in 1957, and his wife Audrey returned to Botswana. They visited several villages and old friends and were interviewed in the Botswana Daily News and Radio Botswana.\n\nPaula Rath lived in Botswana in 1972-73 with her former husband, Dick Graham as Baha'i pioneers and ran a little newspaper called Puisano. Maureen Page was the secretary of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Botswana for many years and her husband Jeff Gruber was a linguist, studying a particular Bushman language. Jeff worked on creating a written alphabet for a Bushman language that had never been categorized and alphabetized before working with a Kalahari Bushman who spoke Tswana fluently. Translations were undertaken and in 1973 a book of Bahá'í prayers (published as \"Dithapelo tsa Bahá'í tse di Senotsweng ke Bahá'u'lláh, Bab le 'Abdu'l-Baha,\") was done.\n\nAn Iranian refugee since 1979, Yousef Mostaghim, and his family continued to support Bahá'í activities when they moved for a few months to Gaborone, Botswana, circa 1982 before settling in the United States.\n\nDwight W. Allen served as a Staff Development Advisor for the Molepolole College of Education and Ministry of Education, Botswana, while as Research Associate with the Florida State University for 1986-88.\n\nAsh Hartwell was an early Peace Corps volunteer in various posts in Africa and then moved back to the United States. He became a student of Dwight W. Allen on reforming university educational programs, learned and joined the Bahá'í Faith, and then returned to Africa. Eventually his family moved to Botswana. While there he had a chance to interact with the Bushmen of the Kalahari during Bahá'í oriented trips and worked managing a program on secondary education teacher training for almost five years before moving on to Egypt.\n\nLally Warren was a member of the Continental Board of Counsellors in Africa from 1985 to 2000 and has served the religion in many other capacities.\n\nIn 1975 a pair of women from Rhodesia traveled a few places in the country holding extended classes on the religion in a few locations advancing the activity of women. The pair were joined by a few local youth. Indeed, in 1976 five handicraft clubs for Bahá'í women were functioning with the assistance of Iran Sohaili from Rhodesia. There was a continued meeting in 1978 when a small group of Bahá'ís visited them for a week and encouraged them to adopt an extension goal of a nearby village.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. The religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\n\nAmong the earliest development projects in Botswana was a systematic initiation of a major \"Youth Year of Service\" project which coordinated volunteer activities with assemblies with a defined need. This was extended by an orientation program of youth in diverse traditional African cultures. Meanwhile, recognition of the work of the national government in support of human rights was presented by the national assembly - at the reception ambassadors and diplomatic core from several countries and the UN. The UN representative invited the Baha'is in turn to co-sponso the 1988 UN Day observance. An international youth conference was held in 1989 at which 120 people from 13 countries attended. In December youth from Transkei were among the choirs that performed at a Bahá'í International Music Festival in Botswana.\n\nDuring 1994-95, youth camps were particularly popular in Botswana where the community held the country's first youth camp. For one week, youth gathered at the Bahá'í Institute in Mahalapye and studied the life of Bahá'u'lláh, the Kitab-i-Aqdas, and such teachings of the religion as chastity and marriage, and the immortality of the soul.\n\n\"Who is Writing the Future? A Seminar on the Issues of the 21st Century\" in 2000 held on the campus of the University of Botswana.\n\nIn 2001 then President of Botswana Festus Mogae praised publication of Bahá'í books in native Setswana language. One was a book of Bahá'í prayers in its third reprint with a revised translation and the other was The Hidden Words of Bahá'u'lláh (published as \"Mafoko a a Subilweng a ga Bahá'u'lláh\".) The book of prayers is available online for free.\n\nThe minister of local government of Botswana, Margaret Nasha, commended the activities of the community when she addressed its golden jubilee held December 2004.\n\nBahá'ís from Botswana were among the thousand who gathered for a regional conference called for by the Universal House of Justice to be held in Johannesburg, South Africa, in November 2008.\n\nRobert Sylvester grew up Catholic in the United States but converted to the religion in the 1970s. He and his wife moved to Zambia in the later 1970s where he worked in a school and served in the Bahá'í community there. Then they moved to Botswana. He would serve as Principal (Chief Executive Officer) of Westwood International School in Gaborone, Botswana from 1990 to 2000. During the same period he also served in some institutions of the religion-appointed to the Permanent Bahá'í Training Institute in Botswana on its Board of Directors (1996-2000) and as External Affairs Officer for the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Botswana (1999-2000) and then moved back to the United States.\n\nShahin Lockman and her husband served a number of medical posts including in Botswana. Lockman worked on tuberculosis in Botswana. On her first visit there in 1996, another disease caught her attention: HIV/AIDS. Both eventually worked in the first clinical trial of the Botswana-Harvard AIDS Institute partnership in 2000.\n\nSean Hinton, a member of the Aspen Institute's Leaders Action Forum, served as the supporter and catalyst for an HIV/AIDS awareness project called Letsema la Itlotlo (conceived by his parents-in-law Gerald and Lally Warren) to promote change in the behaviors that lead to the spread of HIV/AIDS in Botswana by using traditional cultural teachings and the values associated with religious belief as forces of attitudinal change. Two founding grants were received from De Beers Botswana and from the Office of Social and Economic Development of the Bahá'í International Community.\n\nIn 2009 Lucretia Warren, chairperson of the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Botswana and a former member of the Bahá'í Continental Board of Counsellors for Africa, presented at her third Parliament of the World's Religions held in Melbourne Australia as a member of a panel discussion on \"Interfaith and the future of Africa\".\n\nThe Association of Religion Data Archives (relying mostly on the World Christian Encyclopedia) estimated some 16000 Bahá'ís in 2005. However the 2001 national census counts approximately 700 Bahá'ís. Members of each community estimate that these figures significantly understated their respective numbers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4840876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4840876", "title": "Bhattarai", "text": "Bhattarai\n\nBhattarai () or Bhattrai is a Khas surname used by a certain subgroup belonging to Bahun and Chhetri caste of Nepal. They belong Vasishtha gotra.\n\nBhattarai is an adjoint surname made up of two Sanskrit titles; Bhatta and Rai. Bhatta means scholar in Sanskrit. and Rai is a substitute for King.\n\nKrishna Dharabasi aka born Krishna Bhattarai. Author of Radha (Novel), Jhola\n"}
{"id": "49167476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49167476", "title": "Black Cross (Hezekiah Jones)", "text": "Black Cross (Hezekiah Jones)\n\n\"Black Cross\" (AKA \"Hezekiah Jones\", after the main character) is a poem by Joseph Simon Newman, published in his 1948 collection \"It Could Be Verse!\".\n\nHezekiah was a poor black farmer, who worked his two acres of land; but, he also saved up for and read books. The white folks thereabouts thought him harmless enough, but that \"reading ain't no good for an ignorant nigger\". Reverend Green, of the white man's church, visited him and asked if he believed in the Lord, the church, and Heaven. Hezekiah replied, that he'd never seen the Lord; that the church was divided; and that he tried to be as good as he could without expecting anything from Heaven or the Lord.\nThe poem was a signature piece of the American stage performer Lord Buckley. A live performance, in which he speaks the words over a solo female voice singing and humming the spiritual \"Kumbaya\" and a sparse instrumental accompaniment, is included on his 1959 album \"Way Out Humor\", re-released in 1964 as \"Lord Buckley in Concert\".\n\nEarly in his career, Bob Dylan performed the poem, in slightly shortened form, as a spoken piece with guitar accompaniment in a style based on that of Lord Buckley. Two amateur recordings exist: on one of the Minnesota Hotel Tapes, December 1961, and on the Second Gaslight Tape, October 1962. The Minnesota performance was released on the 1969 bootleg album \"Great White Wonder\", and has since been included in other unofficial compilations. The Gaslight performance was released on the unofficial 1985 album \"Gaslight Tapes\".\n"}
{"id": "2869356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2869356", "title": "Buddhist economics", "text": "Buddhist economics\n\nBuddhist economics is a spiritual and philosophical approach to the study of economics. It examines the psychology of the human mind and the emotions that direct economic activity, in particular concepts such as anxiety, aspirations and self-actualization principles. In the view of its proponents, Buddhist economics aims to clear the confusion about what is harmful and what is beneficial in the range of human activities involving the production and consumption of goods and services, ultimately trying to make human beings ethically mature. The ideology's stated purpose is to \"find a middle way between a purely mundane society and an immobile, conventional society.\"\n\nSri Lankan economist Neville Karunatilake wrote that: \"A Buddhist economic system has its foundations in the development of a co-operative and harmonious effort in group living. Selfishness and acquisitive pursuits have to be eliminated by developing man himself.\" Karunatilake sees Buddhist economic principles as exemplified in the rule of the Buddhist king Ashoka.\n\nBhutan's King Jigme Singye Wangchuck and its government have promoted the concept of \"gross national happiness\" (GNH) since 1972, based on Buddhist spiritual values, as a counter to gauging a nation's development by gross domestic product (GDP). This represents a commitment to building an economy that would serve Bhutan's culture based on Buddhist spiritual values instead of material development, such as being gauged by only GDP.\n\nU.S. economics professor Clair Brown sets up a Buddhist economics framework that integrates Amartya Sen's capability approach with shared prosperity and sustainability. In her Buddhist economics model, valuation of economic performance is based on how well the economy delivers a high quality of life to everyone while it protects the environment. In addition to domestic output (or consumption), measuring economic performance includes equity, sustainability, and activities that create a meaningful life. A person’s well-being depends on cultivation of inner (spiritual) wealth even more than outer (material) wealth.\n\nBuddhist economics holds that truly rational decisions can only be made when we understand what creates irrationality. When people understand what constitutes desire, they realize that all the wealth in the world cannot satisfy it. When people understand the universality of fear, they become more compassionate to all beings. Thus, this spiritual approach to economics doesn't rely on theories and models, but on the essential forces of acumen, empathy, and restraint. From the perspective of a Buddhist, economics and other streams of knowledge cannot be separated. Economics is a single component of a combined effort to fix the problems of humanity and Buddhist economics works with it to reach a common goal of societal, individual, and environmental sufficiency.\n\nBuddhist ethics was first applied to the running of a state's economy during the rule of the Indian Buddhist emperor Ashoka (c. 268 to 232 BCE). The reign of Ashoka is famous for an extensive philanthropic and public works program, which built hospitals, hostels, parks, and nature preserves.\n\nThe term \"Buddhist economics\" was coined by E. F. Schumacher in 1955, when he travelled to Burma as an economic consultant for Prime Minister U Nu. The term was used in his essay named \"Buddhist Economics\", which was first published in 1966 in \"Asia: A Handbook\", and republished in his influential collection \"Small Is Beautiful\" (1973). The term is currently used by followers of Schumacher and by Theravada Buddhist writers, such as Prayudh Payutto, Padmasiri De Silva, and Luang Por Dattajivo.\n\nThe 1st Conference of the Buddhist Economics Research Platform was held in Budapest, Hungary from 23–24 August 2007. The second conference was held at Ubon Ratchathani University, Thailand from 9–11 April 2009.\n\nUnlike traditional economics, Buddhist economics considers stages after the consumption of a product, investigating how trends affect the three intertwined aspects of human existence: the individual, society, and the environment. For example, if there were an increase in the consumption of cigarettes, Buddhist economists try to decipher how this increase affects the pollution levels in the environment, its impact on passive smokers and active smokers, and the various health hazards that come along with smoking, thus taking into consideration the ethical side of economics. The ethical aspect of it is partly judged by the outcomes it brings and partly by the qualities that lead to it.\n\nThe Buddhist point of view ascribes to work three functions: to give man a chance to utilize and develop his aptitude; to enable him to overcome his self-aggrandizement by engaging with other people in common tasks; and to bring forward the goods and services needed for a better existence.\n\nThere are a number of differences between traditional economics and Buddhist economics.\n\nBuddhist economists believe that as long as work is considered a disutility for laborers and laborers a necessary evil for employers, the true potential of the laborers and employers cannot be achieved. In such a situation, employees will always prefer income without employment and employers will always prefer output without employees. They feel that if the nature of work is truly appreciated and applied, it will be as important to the brain as food is to the body. It will nourish man and motivate him to do his best. According to them, goods should not be considered more important than people and consumption more important than creative activity. They feel that as a result of this, the focus shifts from the worker to the product of the work, the human to the subhuman, which is wrong.\n\nAccording to them, people are unable to feel liberated not because of wealth but because of their attachment to wealth. In the same way, they say that it is the craving for pleasurable baubles and not the enjoyment from them that holds humans back.\n\nBuddhist economists do not believe in measuring standard of living by the amount of consumption because according to them, obtaining maximum well being as a result of minimum consumption is more important than obtaining maximum well being from maximum consumption. Thus, they feel that the concept of being \"better off\" because of greater levels of consumption is not a true measure of happiness.\n\nFrom the point of view of a Buddhist economist, the most rational way of economic life is being self-sufficient and producing local resources for local needs and depending on imports and exports is uneconomic and justifiable only in a few cases and on a small scale. Thus, they believe in economic development, independent of foreign aid.\n\nBuddhist economics also gives importance to natural, renewable, and non-renewable resources. They feel that non-renewable resources should only be used when most needed and then also with utmost care, meticulously planning out its use. They believe that using them extravagantly is violent and not in keeping with the Buddhist belief of nonviolence. According to them, if the entire population relies on non-renewable resources for their existence, they are behaving parasitically, preying on capital goods instead of income. Adding to this, they feel that this uneven distribution and ever increasing exploitation of natural resources will lead to violence between man.\n\nThey also believe that satisfaction need not necessarily be felt only when something tangible is got back in return for giving something or something material is gained, as stated in modern economics. They say that the feeling of satisfaction can be achieved even when one parts with something without getting anything tangible in return. An example is when one gives presents to their loved ones simply because they want them to be happy.\n\nBuddhist economists believe that production is a very misleading term. According to them, to produce something new, the old form has to be destroyed. Therefore, production and consumption become complementary to each other. Taking this into consideration, they advocate non-production in certain cases because when one produces less materialistic things, they reduce exploitation of the world's resources and lead the life of a responsible and aware citizen.\n\nThe concept of the \"middle way\" says that time should be divided between working towards consumption and meditation and the optimal allocation between these two activities will be when some meditation is utilized to lower the desire for consumption and to be satisfied with lesser consumption and the work that it involves. In economic terms this means \"the marginal productivity of labor utilized in producing consumption goods is equal to the marginal effectiveness of the meditation involved in economizing on consumption without bringing about any change in satisfaction\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "239782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=239782", "title": "Carmen Saliare", "text": "Carmen Saliare\n\nThe Carmen Saliare is a fragment of archaic Latin, which played a part in the rituals performed by the Salii (Salian priests, a.k.a. \"leaping priests\") of Ancient Rome. There are 35 extant fragments of the \"Carmen Saliare\", which can be read in Morel's \"FPL\".\n\nThe rituals revolved around Mars and Quirinus, and were performed in March and October. These involved processions in which they donned archaic armour and weapons, performed their sacred dance, and sang the \"Carmen Saliare\". As a body they existed before the founding of the Roman Republic, tracing their origin back to the reign of Numa Pompilius. The Salian priests were chosen from the sons of patrician families whose parents were still living. They were appointed for life, though they were allowed to resign from the Salian priesthood if they achieved a more prestigious priesthood or a major magistracy.\n\nIn the Annales written by Roman historian Tacitus, it is revealed that several Romans proposed the name of Germanicus to be added to the Salian Song, as a memory of his virtue and goodwill.\n\nTwo fragments which been preserved by Marcus Terentius Varro in his \"De Lingua Latina\", 7.26, 27 (fragment 2 and 1 by Maurenbrecher's numbering):\nThe mysterious \"cozeulodorieso\" has attracted several proposals. Julius Pomponius Laetus proposed in his editio princeps the interpretation \"osculo dolori ero\" \"I shall be as a kiss to grief\", though his emendations are now dismissed as \"editorial fantasy\". George Hempl restored it more carefully to \"coceulod orieso\", attested in some manuscripts aside from the spacing, which is good archaic Latin for classical \"cucūlō oriēre\" \"(thou shalt) come forth with the cuckoo\".\n\nA fragment preserved by Quintus Terentius Scaurus in his \"De orthographia\" (fragment 6 by Maurenbrecher's numbering):\n\nAn excerpt of it:\n\n"}
{"id": "49523640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49523640", "title": "Chudasama dynasty", "text": "Chudasama dynasty\n\nThe Chudasama dynasty ruled parts of the present-day Saurashtra region of Gujarat state in India between 9th and 15th centuries. Their capital was based in Junagadh and Vamanasthali, and they were later classified among the Rajput clans.\n\nThe early history of Chudasama dynasty is almost lost. The bardic legends differs very much in names, order and numbers so they are not considered reliable. Traditionally, the dynasty is said to have been founded in the late 9th century by Chudachandra. Subsequent rulers such as Graharipu, Navaghana and Khengara were in conflict with Chaulukya rulers Mularaja and Jayasimha Siddharaja. Thus they are mentioned in contemporary and later Jain chronicles. After end of the rule of Chaulukya and their successor Vaghela dynasty in Gujarat, the Chudasamas continued to rule independently or as a vassal of successor states, Delhi Sultanate and Gujarat Sultanate. Mandalika I was the first known ruler from inscriptions during whose reign Gujarat was invaded by Khalji dynasty of Delhi. The last king of the dynasty, Mandalika III, was defeated and forcibly converted to Islam in 1472 by Gujarat Sultan Mahmud Begada, who also annexed the state.\n\n\"Ra\", \"Rao\", \"Raval\", \"Raul\" were the titles adopted by the rulers of Chudasama dynasty which are found in their inscriptions, manuscripts and bardic literature.\n\nThe Chudasamas are sometimes referred to as the Abhira Ranaka or Ahir Ranas, and Tambs-Lyche says that, \"The structure of the Chudasama state ... seems to have been an alliance between a small royal clan — later to be classified as Rajputs — and the Ahir tribe.\" In \"Dvyashraya\" and \"Prabandhchintamani\" written by Hemchandra and Merutunga respectively, the king of Vamanasthali is described as \"Abhira Ranaka\" and the term can fairly be applied to Chudasama prince Navaghana as he was placed on throne with the aid of the Ahirs, according to bardic tales.\n\nChudasama rulers had Yadava in their names claiming yaduvanshi kinship\nIn \"Saurashtra ni Rashdar\" written by noted poet Jhaverchand Meghani , the chudasama rajputs are described as Yaduvanshi Rajputs.\n\nArchaeologist K. V. Soundararajan considers the Chudasama dynasty as originally of Abhira clan.\n\nThere are no inscriptions of the period before the king Mandalika I available. Still it is certain that they had established their rule in the Saurashtra region before the Chaulukya king Mularaja came to power in Anahilavada because literary sources tell about battles between Chudasama kings and Chaulukya kings; Mularaja and Jayasimha Siddharaja. Dhandusar inscription (VS 1445) says that the founder of the dynasty was Chudachandra. A Vanthali inscription tells about Mandalika, a kings whose kingdom was captured by Jagatsimha, a feudatory of Chaulukya king Viradhavala. This Mandalika king must be another Mandalika king mentioned in latter half genealogy. As Viradhavala is known to live in VS 1288, he must be assigned the same date. As another Vanthali inscription date VS 1346, it must have been under the Jagatsimha's family till then. It seems that a later Chudasama king Mandalika regained Vanthali when Chaulukya rule weakened. So the later genealogy starts from him in later inscriptions. The Chudasamas continued to rule till VS 1527 (1472 CE) when they were defeated by Gujarat Sultan Mahmud Begada. As inscriptions says about their resistance to Gujarat Sultans, it can be said that they were the most powerful dynasty in Saurashtra region at that time.\n\nBased on historical records, it is known that the coins known as Kodis, Karshapan or Pan, Vishopak, Dram and Rupak were used in Chudasama domains. 80 Kodis were equal to one Karshapan and 16 Karshapan were equal to one Dram. One Dram was equal to 20 Vishopak.\n\nTheir copper coins had a humped bull (Nandi) seated facing left on obverse and a Devanagari letter 'Sri' within dotted and line circle on reverse. They weighted around 2.18 g and were 14.38mm is diameter.\n\nThe Uparkot Fort of Junagadh was occupied by Chudasamas during the reign of Graharipu. Later it is said to have been rebuilt by Navaghana who had transferred his capital from Vamanasthali to Junagadh. He is also attributed with the constructions of Navghan Kuvo and Adi Kadi Vav, a well and a stepwell respectively, in the fort. His descendant Khengara is attributed with a stepwell, Khengar Vav, on the way to Vanthali from Junagadh though it was built by Tejpal, the minister in the Vaghela court.\n\nThe Chudasama dynasty were in constant conflict with the Chaulukyas. Hemachandra states that Mularaja of the Chaulukya dynasty fought against Abhira raja, Graharipu ruling at Junagadh to protect the pilgrims going to Prabhas Patan.\n"}
{"id": "20603469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20603469", "title": "Classical Hindu law in practice", "text": "Classical Hindu law in practice\n\nClassical Hindu law in practice originates from community, not a state polity. In this way, particular groups of society began to gain influence in the creation and administration of law. Primary corporate groups, Kingships, and Brahmins were the factions, which conveyed Hindu jurisprudence in practice. Corporate groups were responsible for legislating law through the conception of social norms; kingships were responsible for the administration of punishment and the worldly Hindu system; and Brahmins were responsible for ritual, penance, and the maintenance of a spiritual Hindu system.\n\nCorporate groups in medieval India included, but were not limited to, merchants, traders, religious specialists, soldiers, agriculturalists, pastoralists, and castes. These groups held legal prominence in classical Indian society because the primary authority and responsibility for law at the time came from the community, not a state polity. Particularly, early Dharmasūtra (dharmasutra) texts, beginning in about the 2nd BC, recognized a full-fledged theology surrounding the household institution. The texts viewed households and families as the archetype of community, \"an exemplary institution of religious and legal reflection of Hindu jurisprudence\". Thus, Hindu jurisprudence portrayed the household, not the state, as the primary institution of law. Connectedly, the household is the institution to which Hindu law is most applied. For example, the texts are most explicit in reference to quotidian household acts such as eating, bathing, creating a family, etc. The focus on the household and other local institutions helped to identify the shared goals and goods within society which are inherent to Hindu law. Furthermore, small-scale communities such as the household were more effective in imposing the acceptance of common values and core ideas.\n\nBecause of the social implication revolving around the importance of the household and the community in the creation and administration of law, Hindu law jurisprudentially subordinated state law to the law of castes and life-stages (varnasramadharma). In this manner, each caste and life-stage was responsible for highly localized occupations. –\n\nTable 1. Dharmas of the Castes, showing the subordinate place of political rulership\n\nI. Brahmin\nII. Kṣatriya\nIII. Vaiśya\nIV. Śūdra\n\nAlthough the household and family were central to corporate groups’ influence, medieval India was a time of political integration over larger and larger core areas. During the time, corporate groups showed increased importance in the creation and administration of law. Such influence came with the development of corporate groups as intermediary tools. These intermediate-corporate groups exercised influence in two main ways:\n\nCorporate groups also created their own laws and systems of jurisprudence. Specifically, the concept of ācāra in the Hindu legal texts (i.e. the Dharmaśāstra) legitimized these localized laws. Ācāra allowed localized corporate groups to create their own laws, especially in the situations where Hindu legal texts were vague, ambiguous, or completely silent. In particular, ācāra of specific corporate groups plays out in practice as \"norms accepted and imposed by the leaders of various social institutions\". The key to the legitimization of these norms created and accepted by the leaders of corporate groups is the concept of the ‘good person’ in ācāra. This principal allows for the dissemination of sastric and Vedic control over practice through the mediation of experts who are learned in the texts. Through this, the Dharmaśāstra is connected to real life in a \"mediate\" way. Ācāra is also recognized and validated in a legal sense through the device of paribhāṣā, which deemed the conventional rules of ācāra as technical supplementary refinements of the rules of the śāstra.\n\nThe dharmasastras, starting with Manu, first addressed the function of the king pertaining to the administration of Hindu law. These texts define the king as ‘he who has been anointed.’ Many scholars interpret anointment as the celebration of coronation rites, and thus believe that the ceremony is necessary to invest the king with supreme authority. Although no rules lay down why or how a particular individual fits to qualify as king, Manu VII.2 indicates that only a Kṣatriya has the right to kingship. Some assume this is because the Kṣatriya possessed the force necessary to obtain obedience. However, interpreters of other dharmasastras, dispute this qualifying trait. The king was considered to have a divine nature, but not because of birth or immortality. Rather, the king encompassed god-likeness through exercising the royal function, which the texts say the gods created. This royal function is the source of the king's authority. The royal function vests the king with the power of command (kṣatra) and the mission to protect the people and give them the guarantee of security. The sastras delineate the royal function to be the king's dharma (rājadharma). Aside from physical protection from the harmful in and outside of king's jurisdiction, rājadharma protects and permits his subjects’ dharma to flourish. In this way, the king's dharma encompasses all dharma since each individual's performance of his or her personal duties is dependent on the protection secured by the king. Because of this interconnectedness between rājadharma and individual dharma (swadharma) \"the salvation of the king depends on his subjects, just as the salvation of the subjects depend on the king\". The king's spiritual happiness depends on his subjects, for he suffers the consequences of their sins and profits from the merits they acquire. This relation applies vice versa as well.\n\nThe royal function gives two main privileges: the right to tax and the right to punish (daṇḍa), and they are benefits outlined solely for the king. Only the king may use punishment to secure the execution of his orders. Due to his ability to punish, the king possesses an unlimited power on the temporal plane, and he may do whatever he wishes. Narada says, \"whatever the king does is justified: such is the rule.\" Furthermore, the execution of punishment ensures justice within the king's jurisdiction, and thus the king is the sole judge of the means needed to accomplish his mission of justice. In this vein, he may act as he deems necessary for justice. Moreover, exercising the royal function to maintain justice is equivalent to the celebration of a sacrifice, which keeps the king pure no matter what actions he must commit to bring a culprit to justice. However, although a king is always justified on a temporal plane, he would suffer the consequences of poor actions in his next lives.\n\nPunishment falls under royal authority because it pertains to accomplishing true justice—a concept only the king can judge. Thus, where there is textual silence, kings are responsible for administrating trials (vyavahāra) of criminal law as well as administering punishment (daṇḍa) for criminal acts. King's judge trials other than criminal cases too, except when parties do not wish to appear before him. When parties do not wish to bring a complaint to the king, individuals and corporate groups conduct their own trials. In these cases, although corporate groups such as castes and vocational sects have their own jurisdiction (which came from customary origins) they are still in the king's control. The king exercises this control through the recognition of a corporate group's particular jurisprudence. Recognition is important because the king's court is the only jurisdiction Dharmasastras identifies, thus the king's acceptance of other courts transfers sastric meaning to the particular jurisdictions. The king also employs danda when the Dharmasastra gives more than one penalty for a crime or when texts are contradictory. He is a source of last resort on questions of both fact and law, but once the king passes judgment it is not up for review.\n\nKings were not very active in legislating especially for the reason that Hindu legal texts always preceded the authority of the king. In this way, kings were limited in their ability to make laws on conduct because the Veda already outlined dharma. Judgments made by the king were never law, but considered orders. These orders did not change laws or give new interpretations to texts but merely secured order and peace to the king's jurisdiction. More reasonably, the king was an administrator rather than a legislator. As an administrator, the king maintained peace between his subjects rather than made laws. In addition, royal authority did allow the king to divide tasks of administration amongst ministers and to define the scope and the powers of each ministry. Davis further attributes the lack of royal legislation or edict to the social context presumed by Hindu jurisprudence (i.e. the subordination of the state to the household). In this way, \"the state is jurisprudentially part of the household dharma of the ruler\" \n\nThe Brahmin was an integral part of the administration of classical Hindu law. For Gautama, the Brahmins and the king sustain the divine order of the world, the Brahmins with their council and the king by punishment. In this way, dharma cannot come to fruition without the two castes’ cooperation. The Brahmin's opinion is the only counterbalance to the king's authority in society, and because of this, the texts say that the king cannot make a decision without the advice of a Brahmin. For this reason, Brahmins have a right to participate in the court of justice. Additionally, when a king cannot preside over a case himself, a Brahmin must be appointed to take his place. The Brahmin not only gives advice on the administration of justice but also in affairs of the state. \"Brahmin is master when the question is one of ritual and of penance. But his scope extends in reality over all the field of royal activity, as much on its political side as on its religious\". The superiority of the Brahmin is not attached to their birth (varna) but to the fact that they are devoted to the study of the Veda, and thus are qualified to instruct other people. Because of this devotion to the Veda, the Brahmin is more closely in line with the divine than the king. Thus, Gautama says, the king is the master of all with the exception of the Brahmin. Such high ranking in the classical Hindu law system is apparent in that Brahmin's are exempt from taxes, and may own land (something that is reserved for only kings and Brahmins).\n\nThere are no references of Judicial procedure in early Vedic times but there was a frequent mention of the term Rta implying that there was a divine cosmic order by which the universe was regulated. The idea of Dharma seems to have developed from Rta, since Dharma later became the word commonly used in ancient India to designate law. The Rig Veda provides little evidence of civil law. In ancient India Dharma had a religious basis and was enforced by religious threat. It changed not by the will of the king but the evolution of social custom usages and practices. During the Brahmana period, the process of giving punishments to culprits was formed and for this reason law-assistants were appointed. The full Judicial procedure came into light during the composition of the Dharmaśāstras and Smrtis. King figures appeared as the highest judicial authority with a network of courts established under him.\nThe courts consisted of ten members King, Pravivaka, the Sabhyas, the Ganika (accountant), the Lekhaka (Clerk) and court inspector.\n\n\nThe decision of a case in ancient India was based on eight sources according to brahmanical law givers. These sources are the three Pramanas (possession, documents, and witnesses) logical inference, the usages of the country, sapathas (oaths and ordeals), the kings edict and admission of the litigants. If there were cases where no possessions, documents and recourse can be provided the decision of the King became the ultimate authority.\n\nFour parts of a trial—\n\n\nOrdeals also referred to as Divya were divine methods of proof. They decided what cannot be or is not to be decided by human means of proof. The general rule stated by Yājñavalkya, Narada, Brahaspati, Katyayana is that ordeals are to be retorted to only if there is no human evidence or circumstantial evidence available. Different kinds of ordeals are mentioned at different places, Manu gives only two ordeals i.e. holding of fire and plunging in water. Yet Yājñavalkya and Vishnu give a list of five, namely balance, fire, water, poison, consecrate water. Narada gives seven different types of ordeals, i.e. ordeal by balance, fire, water, poison, libration, rice, hot piece of gold. Though there has been evidence found that shows the practice of only two ordeals i.e. ordeal by rice and ordeal by sacred libation. They show up in the sources from ancient Kashmir. In the final decisions by the King human modes of proof ruled over divine modes of proof. Ordeals were only used in extraordinary circumstances. There are also more restrictions on who can perform what type of ordeal. Ordeals were generally performed in the presence of King, the judge, learned Brahmans and the public. The place and time where the ordeals could be performed also held importance. They were usually administered either at dawn or in the forenoon or sometimes even late at night. Sunday was the preferred day to administer them. They usually took place at places like temple, royal gate, public place where four roads meet and the hall of justice. The chief judge by the order of the King had to conduct all the rites like a sacrificial priest. The chief judge and the Sodhya had to take religious dips, observe a fast and convoke all deities.\n\nFour major ordeals\n\n\nOther types of ordeals included ordeals mentioned in the Smrtis like the ordeal of sacred libation in which an image of a deity was washed in holy water and the accused had to drink that water. If within a certain time period a misfortune occurred in his life he was found to be guilty. Ordeal of rice grains, ordeal of heated piece of gold, ordeal by ploughshare, ordeal by lot also existed within various texts. Ordeals played a significant part in the judicial administration of ancient India, even though they were not really rational and couldn’t really detect guilt. As pointed out in Medhatithi ordeals were like magic and were meant to scare the guilty party and come out with the truth.\n\nOaths are an affirmation of truth which can be liable to punishment for perjury if the statement given turns out to be false.\nManu recommended that when human proofs failed Sapatha or oath could be applied in search of the truth. According to the Smrti oaths were intended to be used in simple cases, while ordeals were used only in serious cases. A person making an oath was to swear on his near and dear ones. He might touch the head or feet of a Brahman or his wife or his son, or the feet of an image of a deity or take sacred grass or sesamum, silver, gold, earth, fire, water according as the value of the disputed property. The waiting period on the oaths was one, three, five or more days depending on the nature of the accusation. There is a great amount of sanctity attached to Oaths as explained in Manu that if a man swears on an oath falsely even in a small matter will be lost in this world as well as the next.\n\n"}
{"id": "12806440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12806440", "title": "Daily devotional", "text": "Daily devotional\n\nDaily devotionals are publications which provide a specific spiritual reading for each calendar day. Popular daily devotional booklets include \"The Upper Room\", \"Our Daily Bread\", \"Portals of Prayer\", and \"The Word Among Us\". \n\nLutheran Hour Ministries makes daily devotions specifically for the liturgical seasons of Advent and Lent, in addition to other parts of the Church Year.\n\nDaily devotionals have a long tradition in religious communities, with the earliest known Christian example being the Gælic \"Feliré\" written in Ireland in the Ninth Century. They tend to be associated with a daily time of prayer and meditation. \n\nDaily devotionals, while common among Christians, can be found in many other traditions as well. Classic examples of devotionals include Leo Tolstoy's \"The Reading Circle\". \n\nTraditionally daily devotionals came in the format of a book, with one reading passage for each day. With the advent of online content, daily devotionals come in multiple formats including blogs, websites, and emails. There continues to be a multitude of devotional books and calendars, in addition to numerous online devotionals, that are tailored to a variety of recipient, denomination, or view.\n\n"}
{"id": "12867674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12867674", "title": "Dogra dynasty", "text": "Dogra dynasty\n\nThe Dogra dynasty (or Jamwal dynasty) was a Hindu Dogra Rajput dynasty that formed the royal house of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nThe founder of the dynasty, Gulab Singh, was an influential noble in the court of the Maharaja Ranjit Singh of Lahore. Appointed by Ranjit Singh as the hereditary Raja of the Jammu principality, he established his supremacy over all the hill states surrounding the Kashmir Valley. After the First Anglo-Sikh War in 1846, under the terms of the Treaty of Amritsar, 1846, the British Indian government acquired Kashmir from the Sikh Empire and transferred it to Gulab Singh, recognising him as an independent Maharaja. Thus Jammu and Kashmir was established as one of the largest princely states in British India, receiving a 21-gun salute for its Maharaja in 1921. It was ruled by Gulab Singh and his descendants till 1947.\n\nThe last ruling Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir was Hari Singh, who contributed troops to the British war effort in World War II and served on Churchill's Imperial War Cabinet. Following the Partition of India in 1947, Hari Singh faced a rebellion in the western districts of the state and a Pakistan-supported tribal invasion, leading him to accede to the Union of India and receive military assistance. Pakistan contested the accession, giving rise to the enduring Kashmir conflict.\n\nWith India's support, the popular leader of Jammu and Kashmir, Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah, forced the Maharaja to abdicate in favour of his son, \"Yuvraj\" (Crown Prince) Karan Singh, who subsequently accepted the position of a constitutional head of state (\"Sadr-i-Riyasat\") and voluntarily gave up the title of \"Maharaja\".\n\nThe term Dogra is thought to derive from \"Durgara\", the name of a kingdom mentioned in an eleventh century copper-plate inscription in Chamba. In medieval times the term became \"Dugar\", which later turned into Dogra. Kalhana's \"Rajatarangini\" makes no mention of a kingdom by this name, but it could have been referred to by its capital (ether \"Vallapura\", modern Balor, or \"Babbapura\", modern Babor). In modern times, the term Dogra turned into an ethnic identity, claimed by all those people that speak the Dogri language.\n\nThe family of Raja Gulab Singh is referred to as Jamwal (or \"Jamuwal\"). According to some accounts, Raja Kapur Dev, who ruled the area of Jammu around 1560 AD had two sons named Jag Dev and Samail Dev. The two sons ruled from the Bahu and Jammu on the opposite banks of the Tawi River and their descendants came to be called \"Bahuwals\" and \"Jamuwals\" respectively. The members of the family however claim descent from a legendary Suryavanshi (solar) dynasty ruler Jambu Lochan, who is believed to have founded the city of Jammu in antiquity.\n\nRaja Dhruv Dev laid down the foundations of the Jamwal rulers of Jammu in 1703.\n\nHis son Raja Ranjit Dev (1728–1780), introduced social reforms such as a ban on sati (immolation of the wife on the pyre of the husband) and female infanticide.\n\nRaja Ranjit Dev was succeed by Raja Braj Dev who killed his brother and nephew to become king. Braj Dev was killed during the Sikh invasion of Jammu in 1787. His infant son Raja Sampuran Singh (1787–1797) succeeded with Jammu becoming an autonomous tributary under the Sikh empire. Sampuran Singh with no issue, was succeeded by his uncle Raja Jit Singh.\n\nJit Singh was involved in another conflict with the Sikh empire, which he lost and was exiled into British territory. With Jammu fully annexed by the Sikhs around 1808, Ranjit Singh first allotted it to his son Kharak Singh. However, Kharak Singh's agents were unable to maintain law and order, with locals led by Mian Dedo rebelling against the Sikh \"jagirdar\" (governor). In 1820, Ranjit Singh then bestowed the territory as a hereditary fiefedom to Gulab Singh's father Kishore Singh, a distant kinsman of Raja Jit Singh. On his father's death in 1822, Jammu passed to Gulab Singh.\n\nAround 1808, Jammu became part of the Sikh Empire, under Maharaja Ranjit Singh. Ranjit Singh in 1820, bestowed the place as a jagir on Gulab Singh's father Kishore Singh, who belonged to the Jamwal Rajput clan that ruled Jammu. As a \"jagirdar\" (governor) for the Sikhs, Gulab Singh extended the boundaries of the Sikh Empire to western Tibet with the help of his fine General Zorawar Singh. The Sikh rule was then extended beyond the Jammu Region and the Kashmir Valley to include the Tibetan Buddhist Kingdom of Ladakh and the Emirates of Hunza, Gilgit and Nagar.\n\nIn the turmoil for succession of the Sikh empire that followed Maharaja Ranjit Singh's death in 1839, two of Gulab Singh's sons Udham Singh, and Sohan Singh were killed in the feuding between the Sikh heirs. His youngest brother Suchet Singh, was killed by his own nephew Hira Singh, the \"Vizir\" (prime minister) of the Sikh empire. Hira Singh, was a great favourite of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and Gulab Singh once even aspired to have him installed as the Sikh emperor. Hira Singh had become prime minister aged 24, after his father and Gulab Singh's brother \"Vizir\" Dhian Singh was assassinated in his blotched September 1843 coup d'état against Sikh emperor Sher Singh in Lahore. During the regency of Maharani Jind Kaur, Hira Singh was killed by the Sikh army in December 1844.\n\nGulab Singh, came into possession of the Koh-i-noor diamond, after Maharaja Kharak Singh's mysterious death in prison in 1840, and had previously presented the famous stone to Maharaja Sher Singh to win his favour.\n\nAfter the First Anglo-Sikh War in 1846, Sir Henry Lawrence was appointed British Resident and \"Vizir\" Lal Singh on behalf of infant emperor Duleep Singh was asked to surrender Kashmir. \"Vizir\" Lal Singh was also a Dogra, and along with Gulab Singh colluded with the British to deliberately break the Sikh army and facilitate the British victory.\n\nUnder the terms of the Treaty of Amritsar that followed in March 1846, the British government sold Kashmir for a sum of 7.5 million Nanakshahee rupees to Gulab Singh, hereafter bestowed with the title of Maharaja. Thus the Princely State of Jammu and Kashmir came into being under Gulab Singh, as per the treaty of Lahore, signed between the British and the Sikhs.\n\nMaharaja Partab Singh (enthroned in 1885) saw the construction of Banihal Cart Road (B.C. Road) mainly to facilitate telegraph services. During WWI he provided one Mountain Battery and three Infantry Battalions to fight for the British in East Africa, Palestine and Mesopotamia. For the services of his troops the state was awarded a hereditary 21-guns salute.\n\nOne of the main residences of the maharajas was the Sher Garhi Palace in their summer capital Srinagar.\n\n\n\nThe last ruler of Jammu and Kashmir was Maharaja Hari Singh, who ascended the throne in 1925. He made primary education compulsory in the State, introduced laws prohibiting child marriage and threw open places of worship for the low castes. Hari Singh was as a member of Churchill's British War Cabinet in WWII, and supplied troops for the Allies.\n\nSingh's reign saw the accession of Jammu & Kashmir to the newly independent Indian Union in 1947. He originally manoeuvered to maintain his independence by playing off India and Pakistan against each other. There was an armed movement against the Maharaja's rule especially in the Poonch district of Jammu, when his troops were unable to control these fighters and his troops retreated to Jammu, in October 1947, Singh appealed to India for its help. He acceded to India, though there is considerable controversy over exactly at what point, and whether or not his accession included the sovereignty of the state.\n\nIn June 1952, Singh's rule was terminated by the state government of Indian-administered Kashmir. His son Yuvraj (Crown Prince) Karan Singh too abdicated and was elected \"Sadr-e-Riyasat\" ('President of the Province') and Governor of the State in 1964.\n\n\"Yuvraj\" (Crown Prince) Karan Singh after serving as the President of Jammu and Kashmir from 1952-64 would go on to become the youngest cabinet minister as a leading member the Indian Congress Party in 1967. He was also the Indian Ambassador to the USA in 1989. His elder son Vikramaditya Singh was a member of the Peoples Democratic Party. Karan Singh's younger son Ajatshatru Singh was a member of the National Conference (NC) headed by Omar Abdullah, grandson of Sheikh Abdullah who had abolished the monarchy in 1952. Ajatshatru Singh had served with the NC as a minister in the Jammu and Kashmir Government from 1996 to 2002. In 2014 he quit the NC to join the BJP, stating that he had done so to satisfy the \"people’s desire to have a corruption and dynasty-free government\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13379475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13379475", "title": "Dvivida", "text": "Dvivida\n\nIn Hindu mythology, Dvivida is a brother of Maindha. His friend was Narakasura. He was killed by Balarama as he had raped and assaulted people of aristocracy.\n"}
{"id": "20569826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20569826", "title": "Eduard Glass", "text": "Eduard Glass\n\nEduard (Esra) Glass (born 1902 - died after 1980) was an Austrian chess master.\n\nHe won at Vienna 1927, and shared 1st with Erich Eliskases at Innsbruck 1929 (Austrian Chess Championship). He played several times in the Trebitsch Memorial in Vienna.\n\nGlass represented Austria in the 5th Chess Olympiad at Folkestone 1933. In April 1935, he tied for 3rd-5th in Tel Aviv (the 2nd Maccabiah Games, Abram Blass won). He tied for 8-10th at Budapest 1936 (Mieczysław Najdorf and Lajos Steiner won). After Anschluss in 1938, he moved to China, and living in the Shanghai Ghetto survived World War II.\n\nAfter the war, he took 15th at Marianske Lazne 1959 (Lev Polugaevsky won), and took 5th at Reggio Emilia 1960/61.\n"}
{"id": "53685462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53685462", "title": "Ellis Thomas Davies", "text": "Ellis Thomas Davies\n\nEllis Thomas Davies (1822–1895) was a Welsh Independent minister. He grew up in the Llanuwchllyn area, where his father was an elder in the ‘Old Chapel'. As a boy he attended school at Weirglodd Wen, tutored by the local minister, Michael Jones. He then continued his education at Brecon College. He had begun to preach in 1842, and in 1847 began to minister to the churches at Llansantsiôr and Moelfre. After being ordained the following year, he was appointed to the church at Abergele, where he remained for the rest of his ministry, retiring in 1887.\n\nHis written works include a translation of G. B. Johnson's \"Statement of Principles\" (1877), and a book of verse.\n\nHe died in 1895.\n"}
{"id": "1780579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780579", "title": "Ex-Mormon", "text": "Ex-Mormon\n\nEx-Mormon or post-Mormon refers to a disaffiliate of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) or any of its , collectively called \"Mormonism\". Ex-Mormons—sometimes referred to as exmo or postmo—may neither believe in nor affiliate with the LDS Church. In contrast, Jack Mormons may believe but do not affiliate; and cultural Mormons may or may not affiliate but do not believe in certain doctrines or practices of the institutional LDS Church. The distinction is important to some ex-Mormons, many of whom perceive their decision to leave as morally compelling and socially risky. According to 2014 Pew data, around 1/3 of adults raised LDS are now ex-Mormon (up from around 10% in the '70s and '80s) and only 25% of young adults raised LDS are actively involved. Many ex-Mormons experience troubles with family members who still follow Mormon teachings. Aggregations of ex-Mormons may comprise a social movement.\n\nMost ex-Mormons leave Mormonism and the LDS Church because specific intellectual or spiritual reasons have led them to a conviction that the religion is false. The foremost reasons are disbelief both in Joseph Smith as a prophet and in the Book of Mormon as a religious and historical document. Reasons for this disbelief include issues with anthropological, linguistic, archaeological, and genetic evidence against the Book of Mormon in the New World. In addition to rejecting the Book of Mormon for such reasons, the Book of Abraham and other Mormon religious texts are rejected on similar grounds. A study of 3000 people who were formerly affiliated with the LDS Church recorded that 74 percent of respondents cited a disbelief in church doctrine or theology as major reason for leaving the church, but only 4 percent of respondents cited conflict with other church members as a large factor in their decision to leave. Also, just 4 percent claimed that a significant reason for apostasy was dissatisfaction with the rules of conduct professed by the LDS Church. This corroborates the assertion that many Mormons are satisfied with the communal aspect and attributes of LDS Church life.\n\nIndividuals leave Mormonism for a variety of reasons, although \"single reason disaffiliates are rare among former Mormons.\" Research shows that 43 percent of ex-Mormon left due to unmet spiritual needs. Other reasons for leaving may include a belief that they are in a cult, logical or intellectual appraisal, belief changes or differences, spiritual conversion to another faith, life crises, and poor or hurtful responsiveness by Mormon leaders or congregations. Of former Mormons surveyed, 58 percent switched to other faiths or practices.\n\nThose who adopt humanist or feminist perspectives may view certain Mormon doctrines (including past teachings on the spiritual status of black people, polygamy, and the role of women in society) as racist or sexist.\n\nA minority of ex-Mormons cite their personal incompatibility with Mormon beliefs or culture. A 2003 Princeton Review publication quoted a student at church-owned Brigham Young University as stating, \"the nonconformist will find a dull social life with difficulty finding someone that will be their friend, regardless of who they are or what they believe.\" Liberal views and political attitudes that challenge this conformity, and occasionally sexual orientation, are cited as reasons for leaving Mormonism.\n\nIn recent years, the LDS Church has become more politically active, particularly with regard to legislation barring civil marriage for same-sex couples. Official church involvement in the California Proposition 8 campaign was highly controversial, causing some Mormons to stop attending church.\n\nAfter their decision to leave Mormonism and the LDS Church, ex-Mormons typically go through an adjustment period as they re-orient their lives religiously, socially, and psychologically.\n\nAn online poll of ex-Mormons found that a majority of ex-Mormons do not self-identify as a member of another faith tradition, choosing to describe themselves as agnostic, atheist or simply ex-Mormon. Some can also become apatheist. A Pew Research report corroborated this, finding in 2015 that 36% of those born Mormon left the religion, with 21% of born Mormons (58% of ex-Mormons) now unaffiliated, 6% Evangalical Protestant, and 9% converting to other Protestant, Catholic, or a non-Christian faith. Others either retained belief in God but not in organized religion or became adherents of other faiths. Among ex-Mormons with no current religious preference, 36 percent continued the practice of prayer often or daily. Ex-Mormon attitudes toward Mormons and Mormonism vary widely. Some ex-Mormons actively proselytize against Mormonism, while some provide only support to others leaving the religion. Other ex-Mormons prefer to avoid the subject entirely, while still others may try to encourage healthy dialogue between adherents of their new faiths and active Mormons. Attitudes of ex-Mormons also differ regarding their church membership. Some formally resign, which the LDS Church refers to as \"name removal,\" while others simply stop attending church services.\n\nEx-Mormons who publicly leave Mormonism often face social stigmatization. Although many leave to be true to themselves or to a new belief structure, they leave at a cost; many leave feeling ostracized and pressured and miss out on major family events such as temple weddings. Family members of some may express only disappointment and sorrow and try to reach out in understanding to their new belief system. Some stay under threat of divorce from spouses that still believe. Still, many ex-Mormons are completely shunned and have given up spouses, children, and the ability to enter Mormon temples to witness life events of family members. Ex-Mormons in geographic locations away from major enclaves of Mormon culture such as Utah may experience less stigmatization, however.\n\nMost ex-Mormons go through a psychological process as they leave Mormonism. Former Mormon bishop Bob McCue described his disaffiliation as recovery from cognitive dissonance. Reynolds reports that leaving involves a period of intense self-doubt and depression as disaffiliates confront feelings of betrayal and loneliness, followed by self-discovery, belief exploration, spiritual guidance and connection as they leave Mormonism. He argues that leaving may provide a renewed sense of self, confidence and peace. One ex-Mormon compared his disaffiliation experience to leaving a cult, while others called it close to overcoming mind control or adjusting to life outside of religious fundamentalism. Still others compare their symptoms to divorce from marriage. Ex-Mormons may also have to cope with the pain of ostracism by Mormon employers, friends, spouses, and family members.\n\nMany formerly LDS individuals (sometimes called post-Mormon or \"postmos\") seek community and discussion about their former beliefs in online and in-person groups. Some of these international groups include the ex-Mormon page on Reddit (with over 89,000 subscribers), PostMormon.org (with over 9,000 registered users), and LifeAfterMormonism.net (over 3,000 users). Localized groups include the SLC Postmos meetup and Facebook group (with over 2,000 members) and Utah Valley Postmos meetup and Facebook group (over 900 members). The ex-Mormon subreddit gained publicity with its involvement leaking LDS documents.\n\nDepending on the circumstances of an ex-Mormon's departure, Latter-day Saint views may range from considering them apostates to viewing them as individuals who have simply strayed from the path. The LDS Church teaches that people leave for a variety of reasons. Reasons range from trivial to serious (including doctrinal disagreements). Latter-day Saints view \"denying the Holy Spirit\" as having potentially devastating spiritual consequences, and they generally hope ex-Mormons will \"return to the fold.\"\n\nThe reasons given for a person leaving the church vary according to who is offering the opinion. LDS Church Sunday School manuals say members leave because of unwarranted pride, committing sins which drive them to alienation from God, or because they have taken offense to something trivial. The manuals also claim members leave because they have been deceived by Satan, who, according to Mormon scripture, is actively seeking to destroy the souls of men. Furthermore, those who \"depart from the truth\" will be judged in the final judgment for falling prey to this deception. The deceptions that Satan uses include acceptance of a false prophet, pride and vanity, being critical of leaders' imperfections, being offended, rationalizing disobedience, and accepting the false teachings of the world. \nIn the Book of Mormon, a figure named Korihor preaches disbelief and challenges prophecies and church leaders. He then demands a miracle and is miraculously struck mute for the acts. One Mormon scholar likened the philosophical analysis employed in an essay compilation edited by an ex-Mormon to Korihor's tactics. Church authority and popular LDS fiction writer Gerald N. Lund compares any reasoning that leads to disbelief in God or Mormonism to Korihor.\n\nMormon historian B. H. Roberts wrote of an account of a member leaving the LDS Church over the misspelling of a name in church records. The LDS Church has used the story of Frazier Eaton (who gave $700 for the Kirtland Temple but left after being unable to get a seat at the dedication ceremony) as an object lesson on how members can leave after being offended.\n\nLatter-day Saints may view ex-Mormons as stronger candidates for eternal damnation based on their former devotion to Mormonism, since those who were never adherents will be judged more lightly. In addition, one who goes so far as to deny the Holy Spirit could become a son of perdition and be cast into outer darkness. Outright apostasy of members will lead to a church disciplinary council, which may result in disfellowshipment or excommunication. However, members who ask for their names to be removed from church records or who have joined another church are not subject to a disciplinary council.\n\nBrigham Young, a president of the LDS Church, taught that members who openly disagree with church leaders are potentially cursed or condemned and that those who reject Mormon doctrine or authority outright are \"apostate\". An early Mormon epistle teaches that apostates have \"fallen into the snares of the evil one.\"\n\nYoung also said that \"[if] there is a despicable character on the face of the earth, it is an apostate from this Church. He is a traitor who has deceived his best friends, betrayed his trust, and forfeited every principle of honor that God placed within him. They may think they are respected, but they are not. They are disgraced in their own eyes. There is not much honesty within them; they have forfeited their heaven, sold their birthright, and betrayed their friends.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12697", "title": "Gardnerian Wicca", "text": "Gardnerian Wicca\n\nGardnerian Wicca, or Gardnerian witchcraft, is a \n\ntradition in the neopagan religion of Wicca, whose members can trace initiatory descent from Gerald Gardner. The tradition is itself named after Gardner (1884–1964), a British civil servant and amateur scholar of magic. The term \"Gardnerian\" was probably coined by the founder of Cochranian Witchcraft, Robert Cochrane in the 1950s or 60s, who himself left that tradition to found his own.\n\nGardner claimed to have learned the beliefs and practises that would later become known as Gardnerian Wicca from the New Forest coven, who allegedly initiated him into their ranks in 1939. For this reason, Gardnerian Wicca is usually considered to be the earliest created tradition of Wicca, from which most subsequent Wiccan traditions are derived.\n\nFrom the supposed New Forest coven, Gardner formed his own Bricket Wood coven, and in turn initiated many Witches, including a series of High Priestesses, founding further covens and continuing the initiation of more Wiccans into the tradition. In the UK, Europe and most Commonwealth countries someone self-defined as Wiccan is usually understood to be claiming initiatory descent from Gardner, either through Gardnerian Wicca, or through a derived branch such as Alexandrian Wicca or Algard Wicca. Elsewhere, these original lineaged traditions are termed \"British Traditional Wicca\".\n\nGardnerian Wiccans organise into covens, that traditionally, though not always, are limited to thirteen members. Covens are led by a High Priestess and the High Priest of her choice, and celebrate both a Goddess and a God.\n\nGardnerian Wicca and other forms of British Traditional Wicca operate as an initiatory mystery cult; membership is gained only through initiation by a Wiccan High Priestess or High Priest. Any valid line of initiatory descent can be traced all the way back to Gerald Gardner, and through him back to the New Forest coven.\n\nRituals and coven practices are kept secret from non-initiates, and many Wiccans maintain secrecy regarding their membership in the Religion. Whether any individual Wiccan chooses secrecy or openness often depends on their location, career, and life circumstances. In all cases, Gardnerian Wicca absolutely forbids any member to share the name, personal information, fact of membership, and so on without advanced individual consent of that member for that specific instance of sharing. (In this regard, secrecy is specifically for reasons of safety, in parallel to the LGBT custom of being \"in the closet\", the heinousness of the act of \"outing\" anyone, and the dire possibilities of the consequences to an individual who is \"outed\". Wiccans often refer to being in or out of the \"broom closet\", to make the exactness of the parallel clear.)\n\nIn Gardnerian Wicca, there are three grades of initiation. Ronald Hutton suggests that they appear to be based upon the three grades of Freemasonry.\n\nIn Gardnerian Wicca, the two principal deities are the Horned God and the Mother Goddess. Gardnerians use specific names for the God and the Goddess in their rituals. Doreen Valiente, a Gardnerian High Priestess, revealed that there were more than one. She said that Gardner referred to the Goddess as Airdia or Areda, which she believed was derived from Aradia, the deity that Charles Leland claimed was worshipped by Italian witches. She said that the God was called Cernunnos, or Kernunno, which in Celtic meant \"The Horned One\". Another name by which Gardnerians called the God was Janicot (pronounced Jan-e-ko), which she believed was Basque in origin.\n\nThe Gardnerian tradition teaches a core ethical guideline, often referred to as \"The Rede\" or \"The Wiccan Rede\". In the archaic language often retained in some Gardnerian lore, the Rede states, \"An it harm none, do as thou wilt.\"\nWitches ... are inclined to the morality of the legendary Good King Pausol, “Do what you like so long as you harm no one\". But they believe a certain law to be important, “You must not use magic for anything which will cause harm to anyone, and if, to prevent a greater wrong being done, you must discommode someone, you must do it only in a way which will abate the harm.\"\n\nTwo features stand out about the Rede. The first is that the word rede means \"advice\" or \"counsel\". The Rede is not a commandment but a recommendation, a guideline. The second is that the advice to harm none stands at equal weight with the advice to do as one wills. Thus Gardnerian Wiccan teachings stand firm against coercion and for informed consent; forbid proselytization while requiring anyone seeking to become an initiate of Gardnerian Wicca to ask for teaching, studies, initiation. To expound a little further, the qualifying phrase \"an (if) it harm none\" includes not only other, but self. Hence, weighing the possible outcomes of an action is a part of the thought given before taking an action; the metaphor of tossing a pebble into a pond and observing the ripples that spread in every direction is sometimes used. The declarative statement \"do as thou wilt\" expresses a clear statement of what is, philosophically, known as \"free will.\"\n\nA second ethical guideline is often called the Law of Return, sometimes the Rule of Three, which mirrors the physics concept described in Sir Isaac Newton's Third Law of Motion: \"When one body exerts a force on a second body, the second body simultaneously exerts a force equal in magnitude and opposite in direction on the first body.\" This basic law of physics is more usually today stated thus: \"For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.\" Like the Rede, this guideline teaches Gardnerians that whatever energy or intention one puts out into the world, whether magical or not, some response of equal effect will return. This teaching underlies the importance of doing no harm—for that would give impetus to a negative reaction centered on oneself or one's group (such as a coven).\n\nIn Gardnerian Wicca, these tradition-specific teachings demand thought before action, especially magical action (spell work). An individual or a coven uses these guidelines to consider beforehand what the possible ramifications may be of any working. Given these two ethical core principles, Gardnerian Wicca hold themselves to a high ethical standard. For example, Gardnerian High Priestess Eleanor Bone was not only a respected elder in the tradition, but also a matron of a nursing home. Moreover, the Bricket Wood coven today is well known for its many members from academic or intellectual backgrounds, who contribute to the preservation of Wiccan knowledge. Gerald Gardner himself actively disseminated educational resources on folklore and the occult to the general public through his Museum of Witchcraft on the Isle of Man. Therefore, Gardnerian Wicca can be said to differ from some modern non-coven Craft practices that often concentrate on the solitary practitioner's spiritual development.\n\nThe religion tends to be non-dogmatic, allowing each initiate to find for him/herself what the ritual experience means by using the basic language of the shared ritual tradition, to be discovered through the Mysteries. The tradition is often characterised as an orthopraxy (correct practice) rather than an orthodoxy (correct thinking), with adherents placing greater emphasis on a shared body of practices as opposed to faith.\n\nOn retirement from the British Colonial Service, Gardner moved to London but then before World War II moved to Highcliffe, east of Bournemouth and near the New Forest on the south coast of England. After attending a performance staged by the Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship, he reports meeting a group of people who had preserved their historic occult practices. They recognised him as being \"one of them\" and convinced him to be initiated. It was only halfway through the initiation, he says, that it dawned on him what kind of group it was, and that witchcraft was still being practiced in England.\n\nThe group into which Gardner was initiated, known as the New Forest coven, was small and utterly secret as the Witchcraft Act of 1735 made it illegal—a crime—to claim to predict the future, conjure spirits, or cast spells; it likewise made an accusation of witchcraft a criminal offense. Gardner's enthusiasm over the discovery that witchcraft survived in England led him to wish to document it, but both the witchcraft laws and the coven's secrecy forbade that, despite his excitement. After World War II, Gardner's High Priestess and coven leader relented sufficiently to allow a fictional treatment that did not expose them to prosecution, \"High Magic's Aid\". \nAnyhow, I soon found myself in the circle and took the usual oaths of secrecy which bound me not to reveal any secrets of the cult. But, as it is a dying cult, I thought it was a pity that all the knowledge should be lost, so in the end I was permitted to write, as fiction, something of what a witch believes in the novel High Magic's Aid.\n\nAfter the witchcraft laws were repealed in 1951, and replaced by the Fraudulent Mediums Act, Gerald Gardner went public, publishing his first non-fiction book about Witchcraft, \"Witchcraft Today\", in 1954. Gardner continued, as the text often iterates, to respect his oaths and the wishes of his High Priestess in his writing. Fearing, as Gardner stated in the quote above, that witchcraft was literally dying out, he pursued publicity and welcomed new initiates during that last years of his life. Gardner even courted the attentions of the tabloid press, to the consternation of some more conservative members of the tradition. In Gardner's own words, \"Witchcraft doesn't pay for broken windows!\"\n\nGardner knew many famous occultists. Ross Nichols was a friend and fellow Druid (until 1964 Chairman of the Ancient Order of Druids, when he left to found his own Druidic Order of Bards, Ovates, and Druids). Nichols edited Gardner's \"Witchcraft Today\" and is mentioned extensively in Gardner's \"The Meaning of Witchcraft\". Near the end of Aleister Crowley's life, Gardner met with him for the first time on May 1, 1947, and visited him twice more before Crowley's death that autumn; at some point, Crowley gave Gardner an Ordo Templi Orientis (OTO) charter and the 4th OTO degree—the lowest degree authorizing use of the charter.\n\nDoreen Valiente, one of Gardner's priestesses, identified the woman who initiated Gardner as Dorothy Clutterbuck, referenced in \"A Witches' Bible\" by Janet and Stewart Farrar. Valiente's identification was based on references Gardner made to a woman he called \"Old Dorothy\" whom Valiente remembered. Biographer Philip Heselton corrects Valiente, clarifying that Clutterbuck (Dorothy St. Quintin-Fordham, Clutterbuck), a Pagan-minded woman, owned the Mill House, where the New Forest coven performed Gardner's initiation ritual. Scholar Ronald Hutton argues in his \"Triumph of the Moon\" that Gardner's tradition was largely the inspiration of members of the Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship and especially that of a woman known by the magical name of \"Dafo\". Dr. Leo Ruickbie, in his \"Witchcraft Out of the Shadows\", analysed the documented evidence and concluded that Aleister Crowley played a crucial role in inspiring Gardner to establish a new pagan religion. Ruickbie, Hutton, and others further argue that much of what has been published of Gardnerian Wicca, as Gardner's practice came to be known, was written by Blake, Yeats, Valiente and Crowley and contains borrowings from other identifiable sources.\n\nThe witches Gardner was originally introduced to were originally referred to by him as \"the Wica\" and he would often use the term \"Witch Cult\" to describe the religion. Other terms used, included \"Witchcraft\" or \"the Old Religion.\" Later publications standardised the spelling to \"Wicca\" and it came to be used as the term for the Craft, rather than its followers. \"Gardnerian\" was originally a pejorative term used by Gardner's contemporary Roy Bowers (also known as Robert Cochrane), a British cunning man, who nonetheless was initiated into Gardnerian Wicca a couple of years following Gardner's death.\n\nGardner stated that the rituals of the existing group were fragmentary at best, and he set about fleshing them out, drawing on his library and knowledge as an occultist and amateur folklorist. Gardner borrowed and wove together appropriate material from other artists and occultists, most notably Charles Godfrey Leland's \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\", the Key of Solomon as published by S.L. MacGregor Mathers, Masonic ritual, Crowley, and Rudyard Kipling. Doreen Valiente wrote much of the best-known poetry, including the much-quoted Charge of the Goddess.\n\nIn 1948-9 Gardner and Dafo were running a coven separate from the original New Forest coven at a naturist club near Bricket Wood to the north of London. By 1952 Dafo's health had begun to decline, and she was increasingly wary of Gardner's publicity-seeking. In 1953 Gardner met Doreen Valiente who was to become his High Priestess in succession to Dafo. The question of publicity led to Doreen and others formulating thirteen proposed 'Rules for the Craft', which included restrictions on contact with the press. Gardner responded with the sudden production of the Wiccan Laws which led to some of his members, including Valiente, leaving the coven.\n\nGardner reported that witches were taught that the power of the human body can be released, for use in a coven's circle, by various means, and released more easily without clothing. A simple method was dancing round the circle singing or chanting; another method was the traditional \"binding and scourging.\" In addition to raising power, \"binding and scourging\" can heighten the initiates' sensitivity and spiritual experience.\n\nFollowing the time Gardner spent on the Isle of Man, the coven began to experiment with circle dancing as an alternative. It was also about this time that the lesser 4 of the 8 Sabbats were given greater prominence. Brickett Wood coven members liked the Sabbat celebrations so much, they decided that there was no reason to keep them confined to the closest full moon meeting, and made them festivities in their own right. As Gardner had no objection to this change suggested by the Brickett Wood coven, this collective decision resulted in what is now the standard eight festivities in the Wiccan Wheel of the year.\n\nThe split with Valiente led to the Bricket Wood coven being led by Jack Bracelin and a new High Priestess, Dayonis. This was the first of a number of disputes between individuals and groups, but the increased publicity only seems to have allowed Gardnerian Wicca to grow much more rapidly. Certain initiates such as Alex Sanders and Raymond Buckland who brought his take on the Gardnerian tradition to the United States in 1964 started off their own major traditions allowing further expansion.\n\nA partial summary of publicly known Wiccan descendants from Gardner is available here.\n\n"}
{"id": "56526761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56526761", "title": "Golden Lampstand Church", "text": "Golden Lampstand Church\n\nGolden Lampstand Church was a Christian church located in Shanxi Province, China. It was one of the country's largest Protestant evangelical churches until Chinese police officers demolished it on January 9, 2018, using heavy machinery and dynamite. The church was built in 2009 and was the religious home to more than 50,000 Christians. A state newspaper quoted an unidentified official as saying that the church had been secretly constructed without proper permits. Several members of the congregation were imprisoned. The government had been planning to destroy the church since 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2072266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2072266", "title": "Hsin Pei", "text": "Hsin Pei\n\nHsin Pei (; born March 13, 1970) was the seventh and eighth term abbot and director of the Fo Guang Shan, a new religious movement from Taiwan. The youngest abbot ever elected to the order, Hsin Pei was elected by the members of Fo Guang Shan worldwide in 2004 and succeeded retiring abbot Hsin Ting in 2005. As abbot of the Order, Hsin Pei is the second highest monastic in the order, and is second in line to the position of head teacher. His term ended in March 2013. Hsin Pei currently resides in the United States in order to improve his English.\n"}
{"id": "54116527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54116527", "title": "Humffrey Davies", "text": "Humffrey Davies\n\nHumffrey Davies (Wmffre Dafydd ab Ifan) was a 17th century Welsh poet. He is thought to have been from the Llanbrynmair area of Montgomeryshire. \n\nHis known work includes cywyddau, englynion, and Carols, etc. which are mostly of a religious and didactic nature. Some of these feature in the 'Llanstephan Manuscripts'. \n"}
{"id": "50529023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50529023", "title": "Iraca", "text": "Iraca\n\nThe iraca, sometimes spelled iraka, was the ruler and high priest of Sugamuxi in the confederation of the Muisca who inhabited the Altiplano Cundiboyacense; the central highlands of the Colombian Andes. \"Iraca\" can also refer to the Iraka Valley over which they ruled. Important scholars who wrote about the \"iraca\" were Lucas Fernández de Piedrahita, Alexander von Humboldt and Ezequiel Uricoechea.\n\nIn the centuries before the Spanish conquistadores entered central Colombia in the 1530s, the valleys of the Eastern Ranges were ruled by four main leaders and several independent \"caciques\". The northern territories were ruled by the \"zaque\" from Hunza, the present-day capital of Boyacá department and the southern area under the reign of the \"zipa\", based in Bacatá, currently known as the Colombian capital Bogotá. Other important rulers were the \"iraca\" and the \"cacique\" Tundama based in Tundama, today known as the city of Duitama. The Muisca were one of the four advanced civilizations of the Americas, between the Aztec and Maya civilization in the north and the Incas south of Colombia.\n\nThe \"iraca\" was a \"cacique\" of the sacred City of the Sun Sugamuxi, present-day Sogamoso. His domain was a territory spreading over Sogamoso, Pesca, Iza, Tobasía, Firavitoba, Busbanzá, Toca, Gámeza, Tota, Mongua and areas adjacent to Lake Tota.\n\nThe \"iraca\" was both a political and a religious leader (priest), in the religion of the Muisca said to have descended from Idacansás and educated by messenger god Bochica. It is thought that the \"iracas\" inherited the knowledge of Bochica from their predecessors. The role of \"iraca\" was widely respected in the Muisca territories and also was important for the astronomy of the Muisca. The \"iraca\" was elected by the \"caciques\" of Gámeza, Busbanzá, Pesca and Toca. Generally a \"cacique\" from Tobasía or Firavitoba was elected alternatingly. In cases where the election was indecisive, the \"tundama\" of Tundama would intervene.\n\nThe \"iraca\" of Sugamuxi lived in the Sun Temple, the most important temple of the Muisca, built to worship the Muisca Sun god Sué, in Sugamuxi, decorated inside with golden figures; \"tunjos\" and golden plates outside.\n\nThe Sun Temple was destroyed by fire from the torches of soldiers in the army of Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada, the conquistador who made first contact with the Muisca in September 1537 in search of El Dorado.\n\nFrom the ages before the Spanish conquest of the Muisca little is known and much is based on mythology. Confirmed \"iraca\" were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "878014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=878014", "title": "Jesus in Ahmadiyya Islam", "text": "Jesus in Ahmadiyya Islam\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement believe that Jesus survived The Crucifixion and migrated eastward towards Kashmir to escape persecution. He went on to spread his message to the Lost Tribes of Israel after he had carried out his mission to the Israelites in Judea. Living to old age, he later died a natural death in Srinagar, Kashmir.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya Movement consider Jesus a mortal man and a prophet of God, born to the virgin Mary, in line with contemporary Islamic views on Jesus.\nAhmadiyya however diverges from the majority Islamic view that Jesus was raised up to Heaven and remains alive there.\n\nAccording to Ahmadiyya, a literal interpretation of some of Jesus' miracles in the Quran (such as creating birds and bringing the dead back to life) is inconsistent with the Quran and attributes a semi-divine status to Jesus. This understanding is therefore rejected for a hermeneutic approach to understanding the Quranic verses on account of these actions. For example, Jesus bringing the dead back to life is understood in the context of bringing back a 'spiritual' life to people who were spiritually dead.\n\nAhmadi scholars consider the contemporary Islamic views of the second coming of Jesus (see Ahmadi prophetology) as inaccurate. The view of Jesus' expected return in person is deemed as mistaken since the return of an Israelite prophet after Muhammad is seen as violating the finality of Muhammad's prophethood and of the Islamic dispensation. Jesus is believed to have died a natural death, like all other prophets. In the Quran and Hadith there is an absence of the use of terms such as \"return\" or \"second coming\" with reference to Jesus' advent in the end times.The movement interpret the prophecies concerning Jesus's end time advent as allegorical - expressing the coming of a person (from within Islam itself) being in the \"likeness\" of Jesus. The prophecies are merged with those concerning the coming of the Mahdi. Both the terms \"Jesus Son of Mary\" and \"Mahdi\" (as used in Islamic eschatological literature) are understood interchangeably as two titles for the same person.\nAhmadis believe these prophecies have been fulfilled in the person of Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, the founder of the movement. Ahmadiyya believe that the Turin Shroud is authentic.\n\nThe idea of Jesus having travelled to India had been put forth before the foundation of the Ahmadiyya movement, most notably by Nicolas Notovitch in 1894.\n\nGhulām Ahmad, in his treatise Jesus in India (Urdu: \"Masih Hindustan Mein\"), proposed a post-crucifixion journey arguing that Jesus survived crucifixion and travelled to India only \"after\" his apparent death in Jerusalem. He expressly rejected the theory of a pre-crucifixion visit (as Notovitch had postulated).\n\nThe teaching was further researched by Ahmadi missionaries. Kamal ud-Din and Khwaja Nazir Ahmad (1952), who added to Notovitch's theory of his first earlier visit.\n\nThe first response in English to Ahmad's teaching came in a book by Howard Walter, an Urdu-speaking American pastor in Lahore, \"The Ahmadiyya Movement\" (1918). Walter, like later scholars, identified the Islamic version of the Barlaam and Josaphat story as the primary source of Ahmad's evidence despite the fact that the four chapters of his book are arranged around evidence from the Gospels, the Quran and hadith, medical literature and historical records – respectively.\n\nAccording to Ahmadiyya teaching the Roza Bal tomb in Srinagar, which contains the grave of a holy man known as Yuz Asaf, is actually the tomb of Jesus of Nazareth.\n\nWhile the material of Notovitch and Ahmad has been examined and dismissed by historians such as the Indologist Günter Grönbold (1985) and Norbert Klatt (1988)., it has been supported by others such as the archaeologist Fida Hassnain and the writer Holger Kersten.\n\nAhmadis have published extensively on the topic of Jesus' natural death and have expanded on Ghulam Ahmad's work in light of newer research.\n\nIn 1978, Mirza Nasir Ahmad, the third Khalifa, travelled to London where the international conference of Jesus’ \"Deliverance from the cross\" was held at the Commonwealth Institute in Kensington. This was attended by a number of scholars and academics who presented papers discussing the circumstances surrounding the Crucifixion of Jesus, after which the Ahmadiyya viewpoint regarding the death of Jesus was presented. Nasir Ahmad also gave a lecture dealing with the subject of Jesus’ survival from death upon the cross, his travel to the east, the Unity of God and the status of Muhammad.\n\nIn 2003, the possibility of Roza Bal being Jesus' tomb was discussed in a BBC documentary by Richard Denton, \"Did Jesus Die?\". Jesus' possible travels to India are also discussed in the 2008 documentary \"Jesus in India\" by Paul Davids.\n\nAhmadis also illustrate the notion of Jesus having survived the Crucifixion through Biblical analysis.\nAfter surviving crucifixion, Jesus fled to Galilee. Jesus (along with several disciples) later left Palestine to further preach the Gospel to the Lost Tribes of Israel – that had scattered as far as Afghanistan and northern India. He eventually settled in Kashmir where he was given the name Yuz Asaf (meaning “Leader of the Healed”/\"Son of Joseph\").\nSee also The Natural Death of Jesus\n\nAhmadiyya state that there are at least 30 verses of the Qur'an that suggest that Jesus did not ascend to Heaven but instead died a natural death on Earth. The verses in Chapter Al-Nisa (4:157-158) indicate that Jesus did not die on the Cross but that God had “raised” Jesus unto Himself (not into heaven).\n\nAs the Quran speaks of God being Omnipresent in the Earth and in the hearts of mankind, God's existence is not to be misconstrued as being confined to the Heavens alone, making any bodily movement \"towards\" God impossible.\n\nThus Ahmadis interpret the Arabic word for raised in these verses to mean “exalted”. In other words, Jesus' spiritual rank and status was raised to come closer to God as opposed to dying the accursed death which his adversaries had wished for.\n\nTo further support the view of Jesus having died a mortal death, Ahmadis interpret the verse in the Quran 5:75:\n\nIn this verse Jesus is compared to the previous Messengers, all of which had died a natural death and none of whom had ascended bodily to Heaven.\n\nFrom the following verse in Al-Imran, the Quran clarifies that all messengers before the Prophet Muhammad had died:\n\nThis verse pertains that all previous prophets including Jesus had died.\n\nAhmadi scholars have provided references citing hadith regarding the death of Jesus.\n\nAs Muhammad has lived and died after some 60 years, it means that Jesus is also dead. As Muhammad is dead, this states that there likewise was a death of Jesus.\nDuring the Mi'raj, Muhammad had seen Jesus in the second heaven along with John the Baptist. Thus, it means Jesus is dead because the dead do not dwell amongst the living.\n\nThe Hadith and the Bible indicate that Jesus will return during the latter days. Islamic Hadith commonly depicts that Jesus, upon his second coming, would be an \"Ummati\" (Muslim) and a follower of Muhammad and that he would revive the truth of Islam rather than fostering a new religion.\n\nThe movement interprets the prophecised Second Coming of Jesus as being of a person \"similar to Jesus\" (\"mathīl-i ʿIsā\"), rather than that of Jesus of Nazareth himself. Mirza Ghulam Ahmad professed that the prophecy in traditional religious texts were greatly misunderstood to interpret that Jesus of Nazareth himself would return.\n\nAhmadis consider that the founder of the movement, in both his teachings and character as well as his situation and struggles, was representative of Jesus. \n\nHenceforth, Ahmadis believe this prediction – the Second Coming – was fulfilled by Ahmad and continued by his movement.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya movement assert the expected arrival of a Latter Day Messiah is historically represented across all major faiths. The prophecy regarding a latter day messiah had diverged into separate theories and distinct interpretations and this filtered through to different religious movements. This prophecy nonetheless was originally only intended to refer to a single Messiah. As such, Ahmadis declared that the Messiah concerning all major world faiths has been unified by the advent of a single Promised Messiah (Ghulam Ahmad). \nAhmadi's believe that all world faiths will gradually move towards Ahmadiyya; and that such a process will follow a correlative pattern of circumstances and take a similar amount of time to what it took for Christianity to rise to dominance (roughly 300 years).\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Islam states that the post-crucifixion journey of Jesus towards the East and his natural death as an aspect of Ahmadi belief is one of three primary tenets that distinguish Ahmadi teachings from general Islamic ones, and that it has provoked a \"fatwa\" against the movement.\n\nThe claim that Mirza Ghulam was a prophet forms a point of contention with mainstream Islam, as it views this as a contradiction to the Quranic and Hadith teachings of Muhammad. Contemporary Islamic scholars view the Ahmadiyya belief as a contradiction with a verse in the Quran, Chapter 33 (The Combined Forces), verse 40:\n\n\"Muhammad is not the father of [any] one of your men, but [he is] the Messenger of Allah and Seal of the prophets. And ever is Allah, of all things, Knowing.\" \n\nFurther, in the farewell sermon of the Prophet Muhammad, delivered just prior to his death, he warned his followers and all of mankind with the following message: \n\n\"O People! No Prophet or apostle will come after me and no new faith will be born. Reason well, therefore O People! and understand words that I convey to you. I leave behind me two things, the Qur'an and the Sunnah and if you follow these you will never go astray.\"\nAhmadis believe however, in accordance with the Hadith traditions, that the \"Last\" of the Prophets is meant to signify the \"Very Best\" and \"Most Exalted Law Giver Prophet\" among all the Prophets and that the farewell sermon had only signified that no prophet would come immediately after the Prophet Muhammad had died.\n\nThe movement believe the interpretation of \"finality\" that is upheld by the mainstream Islamist view, paradoxes the Hadith concerning the second advent of Jesus altogether. For instance if Jesus is expected to return physically, as contemporary Islamic scholars uphold, it would be completely implausible considering that at the same time it is impossible for any Prophet to come after the Prophet Muhammed.\n\nThe Hadith indicated when the Prophet Muhammad had declared himself as the Last of the Prophets, with the same breath he had also declared his mosque as the Last of the mosque.\n\nThis Hadith implicates the view of Muhammad as being the \"Last\" in the absolute sense. If the Prophet Muhammad declared his mosque being Last of the mosques then by the same interpretation this would have effectively invalidated all other mosques. But this Hadith also mentions that \"the last of the mosques of the Prophets\", which is known as Masjid - e - Nabawi, the Prophet Muhammad lived there and is also buried there. But this hadith does not show \"last of the mosques\" rather it shows \"last of the mosques of the Prophets\". Ahmadiyyah are decepted because of wrong interpretation of Hadith.\n\nThe Ahmadiyya understanding of the term \"Seal of Prophets\" with reference to Muhammad, establishes that a prophet cannot come after Muhammad from outside the Islamic dispensation. Nor can one whose prophethood is independent of Muhammad. Jesus' ministry, according to the Quran, was limited to the Israelites and since he received his prophecy independently of Muhammad, his physical return after the advent of Muhammad, (as contemporary Muslims expect) violates the Seal of Prophethood.\n\nAhmadi scholars profess that when Prophet Muhammad died, the Sahaba were grieved. Umar, angered and upset, took out a sword, and said that he would kill anyone who said Muhammad is dead. At this instance Abu Bakar quoted:\nThe Ahmadiyya sect believes that because no companion said Jesus is alive in heaven and he would come physically in Second Coming, the implication invariably is that Jesus died a natural death (and not on the Cross).\n\nMirza Ghulam Ahmad regarded the prophecies and concepts in Hadith and bible concerning his advent in an entirely metaphorical light. For example, he wrote:\nThe second special aspect of the prophecy, which relates to the advent of the Promised Messiah, is that he will break the cross, slaughter the swine and kill the one-eyed Antichrist. Every disbeliever who is touched by his breath will die instantly. The spiritual interpretation of this special aspect is that the Promised Messiah will crush under his feet all the glory of the religion of the cross, that he will destroy with the weapon of conclusive arguments those who are afflicted with shamelessness like swine, and who devour filth like pigs, and that he will wipe out with the sword of clear proofs the opposition of those who possess only the eye of the world and are bereft of the eye of the faith in place of which they have only an unsightly taint. Not only such one-eyed ones, but also every disbeliever who views Islam with contempt will suffer spiritual extinction through the glorious breath of Messianic reasoning. In short all these signs are metaphoric, the significance of which has been fully revealed to me. Some may not appreciate it at this time but after waiting for sometime, and despairing altogether of the hopes that they now entertain, all of them will accept it.” (Izala-e-Auham, Volume 3, Pages 141-143)\nThe Islamic Hadith describe that Jesus would, upon his second coming, \"Break the Cross\". Ahmadis interpret this to mean that he will \"make plain the error of the creed of the cross\". Ghulam Ahmad's teachings of Jesus, being a mortal man who survived crucifixion and died a natural death upon earth, is considered as a testimony of the prophecy being fulfilled. Ahmadi's believe the followers of Christianity will gradually come to accept the same teaching and this will repeal the central doctrines of the divinity of Jesus, Atonement and Resurrection. In turn, the traditional Christian reverence for the cross and doctrine of the immortality of Jesus will become untenable.\n\nIn 1894, Ghulam Ahmad had declared that the contemporary Islamists views of Jihad of the sword and Holy War was a misrepresentation of Islam that was invented during the Dark Ages and advocated for these beliefs to be ended in its entirety. The Ahmadiyya Movement contend that any military jihad in Islam is permitted only as an exclusively \"religious\" defensive measure in very strictly defined circumstances and those circumstances do not exist at present. As a result, early Ahmadis had faced virulent opposition from extremist groups, some of whom protested that Ghulam Ahmad was put in place by the British Government to appease Muslims. Ahmadis believe that in the modern era, the \"Jihad of the pen\" (intellectual reasoning) is the only potent way of espousing and spreading the Islamic teaching and this has taken the place of \"Jihad of the sword\" as per scriptural prophecies. \nAs such the movement consider the prophecies in the Hadith relating to ending of religious wars had been fulfilled by Ghulam Ahmad teachings.\n\nAccording to Ghulam Ahmad, (and further developed by the next generation of Ahmadi writers such as Khwaja Nazir Ahmad in 1952), Jesus taught the message of Jewish messianism to his disciples and to the people living in Palestine. \nAfter surviving his ordeal on the cross, Jesus remained in Palestine for a short time before leaving from there. Jesus was declared a criminal and therefore, decided to leave Palestine with his mother Mary, his wife Mary Magdalene and his apostle Thomas the Apostle. Thereafter, Jesus traveled toward Asia.\n\nWith these three companions, he went first to Iraq. Here he met his disciple, Ananias. He met his rival Paul who later became a Christian. In Nusaybin, he got another tension at the hands of a cruel king. He was arrested again. Prophet Jesus along with his mother performed some miracles and impressed the king. The king gave him permission to go to Parthia kingdom. There was a strong Jewish community living there.\n\nFrom Iraq, he went to Iran where he was honourably received by the Persian Jews. Five centuries before Cyrus the Great had conquered Babylon and the Jews were freed. Many of the Jews went to live in Iran and were known as Persian Jews. Jesus preached here and went on to Bactria (Afghanistan). At that time, Persia was a great center of Judaism. He professed the advent of the coming of a great prophet named Muhammad to his fellowmen in these areas specially in the area of Afghanistan. He met with the first king of Parthia who honored him. The Pashtun people have a tradition in their royal and non-royal functions and consider themselves to be the sons of Children of Israel. Many of these Persian Jews who had been receiving the teachings from Jesus proselytized to Muslims at the time of Muhammad and accepted his call. Qais Abdur Rashid, his name is this and the original was Kish.\n\nAccording to Ahmadiyya sources (Islam International Publications Ltd.) the Tribes of Israel who had migrated to eastern countries seeing the attraction in Hinduism and Buddhism had themselves become Hindus and Buddhists. They subsequently became unaware of their religion. \nJesus and Thomas the Apostle had later arrived in India to restore the abrahamic teachings to these tribes.\n\nAccording to a late section of the Hindu \"Bhavishya Purana\" (written after 1739). \nJesus Christ met a Hindu monarch, King Shalivahan.\n\nThe king along with his companions went to the peak of Himalayas to meet a man who was a dignified person of fair complexion in white clothes sitting in the mountain. When the king asked who he was, the man replied \"I am the Messiah, born of a virgin.\"\n\nHe told the king he had come from a far off place where he has suffered at the hands of his people. When the king asked what religion he adhered to, he said that his religion was of peace, love and purity of heart. The king was impressed, so he paid homage to him.\n\nDuring his initial research into Jesus' death, Mirza Ghulam Ahmad postulated that Jesus may have been buried in either Galilee or Syria. After investigating further he eventuality uncovered evidence to conclude that the tomb of Jesus was located at the Roza Bal shrine in Srinagar, Kashmir. Based upon this evidence, Ahmadis today believe the tomb of Jesus is located in the Srinagar region of Kashmir.\n\nGhulam Ahmad, and later Ahmadi writers cite various evidences for identifying the grave as that of Jesus: The Bhavishya Maha Purana Official Decree, The Glass Mirror, Tarikh-i-Kashmir, Qisa-shazada, The Garden of Solomon (Bagh-i-Sulaiman) of Mir Saadullah Shahabadi Kashmiri (1780 A.D.), Wajeesut Tawarikh, Ikmal-ud-Din (962 AD), The Ain-ul-Hayat, The Acta Thomae, Takhat Sulaiman (Throne of Solomon, a hill in Kashmir), Tahrik-i-kabir-Kashmir, Rauzat-us-Safa. Ahmadis believe that these sources testify to the view that Yuz Asaf and Jesus are the same person.\n\nHaji Mohi-ud-din Miskin, writing in 1902, three years after Mirza Ghulam Ahmad in 1899, is the first historian to mention that \"some\" connect the shrine of Yuzasaf as the grave of Hazrat Isa Rooh-Allah (Jesus the Spirit of God).\n\nThe importance of the shrine has been preserved in the memory of the descendants of the ancient Israelites to this day. They call the shrine \"The tomb of Hazrat Issa Sahib\", \"The Tomb of Lord Jesus\".\n\nThe building constructed is named \"Roza Bal\" or \"Rauza Bal\". \" Rauza \" is generally a term used to denote the tomb of a celebrated personality, i.e. noble, wealthy, or saintly. A local scholar and supporter of the theory, Fida Hassnain, has claimed that the tomb is arranged with the feet pointing in the direction of Jerusalem, and claimed that this is in accordance with Jewish tradition.\n\nAhmadis give the Yuz Asaf enshrined in the tomb the epithet \"Shahzada Nabi\", “Prophet Prince”. The majority Srinagar Sunni Muslim community reject the Ahmadiyya claims that the tomb is that of Jesus and consider this viewpoint as blasphemous.\n\nThe Ahmadis also believe that Mary had accompanied her son on the journey to Kashmir.\n\nMuslim and Persian documents — the Tafir-Ibn-I-Jarir, the Kanz-al-Ummal, and the Rauzat-us-Safa — have references that contribute to the theory of Jesus' escape. Some of these also mention that Jesus was accompanied by Mary, and there is another burial place in Pakistan, along his theoretical route to Kashmir, known as Mai Mari da Ashtan, or \"resting place of Mother Mary.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40384967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40384967", "title": "Jewish Cultural Reconstruction, Inc.", "text": "Jewish Cultural Reconstruction, Inc.\n\nJewish Cultural Reconstruction, Inc. (JCR) was an organization established in 1947 to collect and distribute heirless Jewish property in the American occupied zone of Germany after World War II. Shortly after its founding, it became the cultural arm of the Jewish Restitution Successor Organization (JRSO). About 150,000 heirless items (mostly books from the Offenbach Archival Depot whose owners could not be identified) were distributed by the JCR to libraries in the United States and abroad, among others to the library of the Israelitische Cultusgemeinde Zürich (ICZ) in Switzerland.Hannah Arendt, then managing director of the Jewish Cultural Reconstruction, Inc., handed over parts of the library of the Breslau Rabbinical Seminary in Germany which was suppressed by the Nazis in 1938. The oldest books of the Breslau collection date back to the 16th century, among them a 1595 print of Flavius Josephus' \"Antiquities of the Jews\". Funding for the JCR's operations was provided by the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Agency for Palestine. Among the leaders and officers of the organization were Salo Baron, Hannah Arendt, Leo Baeck, and Gershom Scholem. The JCR ceased operations in 1952.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2689924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2689924", "title": "John J. McNeill", "text": "John J. McNeill\n\nJohn J. McNeill (September 2, 1925 – September 22, 2015) was ordained as a Jesuit priest in 1959 and subsequently worked as a psychotherapist and an academic theologian, with a particular reputation within the field of Queer Theology.\n\nBorn in Buffalo in 1925, McNeill grew up in up-state New York. He served during World War II, but was captured and transported to a German prisoner-of-war camp near Leukenwald. This had an effect on his spirituality and in 1948 he entered the Society of Jesus; finally being ordained a Jesuit priest in 1959 by Cardinal Spellman of New York.\n\nHe obtained a Ph.D. from the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium in 1964. It was there that he fell in love with a man, later saying: \"The experience of the joy and peace that comes with that — it was a clear indication to me that homosexual love was in itself a good love and could be a holy love\". He went on to teach at LeMoyne College in Syracuse, NY and Fordham University in NYC. In 1972, he joined the combined Woodstock Jesuit Seminary and Union Theological Seminary faculty as professor of Christian Ethics, specializing in Sexual Ethics. He was a noted peace advocate during the Vietnam War.\n\nIn 1969 he played a part in the establishment of DignityUSA, an organization functioning both as a support and social group for LGBT and LGBT-accepting Catholics to worship together - founding a chapter in New York in 1972.\n\nIn 1976, McNeill published \"The Church and the Homosexual\", which challenged the Church's prohibition of same-sex activity. It was the first extended non-judgmental work about gay Catholics, a subject that had long been taboo in official church discourse. The book was the first attempt by a reputed scholar and theologian to examine and challenge traditional church teachings on sexuality and attitudes toward gay and lesbian Catholics. It argued for a change in Church teaching and that homosexual relationships should be judged by the same standard of heterosexual ones. It argued that a stable, loving same-sex relationship was just as moral, and just as godly, as a heterosexual one and should be acknowledged as such by church leaders. It has been credited with helping to set in motion the re-evaluation of the religious stance toward gay people.\n\nAfter an extensive review of the manuscript by a panel of theologians, the work received permission from McNeill's Jesuit superiors prior to printing and the Vatican imprimatur. It was translated into several languages. However, the following year the permission was retracted at the order of the Vatican, and McNeill was ordered by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger not to write or speak further publicly about the issue of homosexuality. McNeill responded in a statement highlighting his concern that \"gay men most likely to act out their sexual needs in an unsafe, compulsive way, and therefore expose themselves to the HIV virus, are precisely those who have internalised the self-hatred that their religions impose on them.\" He nevertheless observed the imposed silence for nine years while continuing his private ministry to gays and lesbian Catholics. Two things eventually led him to speak out. Firstly, seeing the devastating effects of the AIDS epidemic after establishing an AIDS ministry alongside Mychal Judge, serving homeless people in Harlem. Secondly, the 1986 Vatican pastoral letter, \"On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons\" issued by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger. The document declared that homosexuality was \"a more or less strong tendency ordered toward an intrinsic moral evil.\" McNeill condemned the letter in a statement issued to The New York Times and The National Catholic Reporter.\n\nIn 1987, he received yet another order from Ratzinger directing him to give up all ministry to gay persons and remain silent on gay issues or face expulsion. An order, he said, he could not follow in good conscience. He was subsequently expelled from the Jesuit order after 40 years. He remained nominally a priest but was not permitted to say Mass.\n\nNevertheless, McNeill remained respected among gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender rights Catholics as well as others who looked to his scholarly writings to help them accept their own sexuality and defend themselves against what they viewed to be misguided church teachings. In 1987, he was the grand marshal of the New York City gay pride parade. He continued to speak out against official Catholic teachings on matters of sexuality and in particular the harsh and \"homophobic\" teachings coming out of the Vatican. McNeill himself was openly gay\n\nIn 1998 he published his memoir, \"Both Feet Firmly Planted in Midair: My Spiritual Journey.\" In 2012, a documentary entitled 'Taking A Chance On God' was directed and produced by Brendan Fay about his life. He spoke about having tried \"with the help of the Holy Spirit to free gay Christians from the lies of a pathologically homophobic religion.\"\n\nMcNeill died at a hospice in Fort Lauderdale, Florida on September 22, 2015 at the age of 90 with his partner of 46 years, Charlie Chiarelli, at his bedside. The two men married in Toronto in 2008.\n\n\n\nHomosexuality and Roman Catholicism\n\n"}
{"id": "1082083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1082083", "title": "Kirishitan", "text": "Kirishitan\n\nThe Japanese term , from Portuguese \"cristão\" (cf. Kristang), referred to Roman Catholic Christians in Japanese and is used in Japanese texts as a historiographic term for Roman Catholics in Japan in the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nModern Japanese has several ways of spelling Christian of which the most common are the noun form \"kirisuto-kyōto\" キリスト教徒, and also \"kurisuchan\" クリスチャン. The Japanese spelling \"kirishitan\" キリシタン is used primarily in Japanese texts for the early history of Roman Catholicism in Japan, or in relation to \"kakure kirishitan\", Hidden Christians. However, English sources on histories of Japan generally use the term \"Christian\" without distinction.\n\nChristian missionaries were known as \"bateren\" (from the Portuguese word \"padre\", \"father\") or \"iruman\" (from the Portuguese \"irmão\", \"brother\"). Both the transcriptions 切支丹 and 鬼利死丹 came into use during the Edo Period when Christianity was a forbidden religion. The Kanji used for the transcriptions have negative connotations. The first one could be read as \"cut off support\", and the second as \"devils who profit from death\".\n\nPortuguese ships began arriving in Japan in 1543, with Catholic missionary activities in Japan beginning in earnest around 1549, mainly by Portuguese-sponsored Jesuits until Spanish-sponsored mendicant orders, such as the Franciscans and Dominicans, gained access to Japan. Of the 95 Jesuits who worked in Japan up to 1600, 57 were Portuguese, 20 were Spaniards and 18 Italian. Francis Xavier, Cosme de Torres (a Jesuit priest), and João Fernandes were the first to arrive to Kagoshima with hopes to bring Christianity and Catholicism to Japan. At its height, Japan is estimated to have had around 300,000 Christians. Catholicism was subsequently repressed in several parts of the country and ceased to exist publicly in the 17th century.\n\nReligion was an integral part of the state and evangelization was seen as having both secular and spiritual benefits for both Portugal and Spain. Indeed, Pope Alexander VI's Bulls of Donation (1493) commanded the Catholic Monarchs to take such steps. Wherever Spain and Portugal attempted to expand their territories or influence, missionaries would soon follow. By the Treaty of Tordesillas (1494), the two powers divided the world between them into exclusive spheres of influence, trade and colonization. Although, at the time of the demarcation, neither nation had any direct contact with Japan, that nation fell into the sphere of the Portuguese.\n\nThe countries disputed the attribution of Japan. Since neither could colonize it, the exclusive right to propagate Christianity in Japan meant the exclusive right to trade with Japan. Portuguese-sponsored Jesuits under Alessandro Valignano took the lead in proselytizing in Japan over the objection of the Spaniards, starting in 1579. The fait accompli was approved in Pope Gregory XIII's papal bull of 1575, which decided that Japan belonged to the Portuguese Diocese of Macau. In 1588, the diocese of Funai (Nagasaki) was founded under Portuguese protection.\n\nIn rivalry with the Jesuits, Spanish-sponsored mendicant orders entered into Japan via Manila. While criticizing Jesuit activities, they actively lobbied the Pope. Their campaigns resulted in Pope Clement VIII's decree of 1600, which allowed Spanish friars to enter Japan via the Portuguese Indies, and Pope Paul V's decree of 1608, which abolished the restrictions on the route. The Portuguese accused Spanish Jesuits of working for their homeland instead of their patron. The power struggle between Jesuits and mendicant orders caused a schism within the diocese of Funai. Furthermore, mendicant orders tried in vain to establish a diocese on the Tōhoku region that was to be independent from the Portuguese one.\n\nThe Roman Catholic world order was challenged by the Netherlands and England. Theoretically, it was repudiated by Grotius's \"Mare Liberum\". In the early 17th century, Japan built trade relations with the Netherlands and England. Although England withdrew from the operations in ten years under James I due to lack of profitability, the Netherlands continued to trade with Japan and became the only European country that maintained trade relations with Japan until the 19th century. As trade competitors, the Protestant countries engaged in a negative campaign against Catholicism, and it subsequently affected shogunate policies toward the Iberian kingdoms.\n\nPortugal's and Spain's colonial policies were also challenged by the Roman Catholic Church itself. The Vatican founded the Congregatio de Propaganda Fide in 1622 and attempted to separate the churches from the influence of the Iberian kingdoms. However, it was too late for Japan. The organization failed to establish staging points in Japan.\n\nThe Jesuits believed that it was better to seek to influence people in power and then allow the religion to be passed downwards to the commoners later. They tried to avoid suspicion by not preaching to the commoners without permission from the local rulers to propagate Catholicism within their domains. As a result, several \"daimyō\" became Christians, soon to be followed by many of their subjects as the Dominicans and Augustinians were able to begin preaching to the commoners. After the edict banning Christianity, there were communities that kept practicing Catholicism without having any contact with the Church until missionaries were able to return much later.\n\nWhen Xavier disembarked in Kagoshima, the principal chiefs of the two branches of the Shimazu family, Sanehisa and Katsuhisa, were warring for the sovereignty of their lands. Katsuhisa adopted Takahisa Shimazu who in 1542 was accepted as head of the clan having previously received the Portuguese merchants on Tanegashima Island, learning about the use of firearms. Later, he met Xavier himself at the castle of Uchiujijo and permitted the conversion of his vassals.\nHaving a religious background, Takahisa showed himself to be benevolent and already allowed freedom of worship but not helping the missionaries nor favoring their church. Failing to find a way to the centre of affairs, the court of the Emperor, Xavier soon tired and left to Yamaguchi thus beginning the Yamaguchi period. Xavier stayed in Yamaguchi for two months on his way to an abortive audience with the Emperor in Kyoto. Yamaguchi was already a prosperous and refined city and its leaders, the Ōuchi family, were aware that Xavier's journey to Japan had begun after the completion of his mission in India.\n\nThey took Catholicism for some sort of new sect of Buddhism and were curious to know of the priest's doctrine. Tolerant but shrewd, their eyes less on baptism than the Portuguese cargoes from Macao, they granted the Jesuit permission to preach. The uncompromising Xavier took to the streets of the city denouncing, among other things, infanticide, idolatry and homosexuality. Misunderstandings were inevitable.\n\nChristian books were published in Japanese from the 1590s on, some with more than one thousand copies, and from 1601 a printing press was established under the supervision of Soin Goto Thomas, a citizen of Nagasaki, with thirty Japanese working full-time at the press. Liturgical calendars were also printed after 1592 until at least 1634. Christian solidarity made also possible missionary mail delivery throughout the country until the end of the 1620s.\n\nDifferent groups of laymen supported Christian life in the Japanese mission, e.g., dōjuku, kanbō and jihiyakusha helped the clergymen in activities like the celebration of Sunday liturgy in the absence of ordained clergy, religious education, preparation of confessions, and \nspiritual support of the sick. By the end of the 16th century kanbō and jihiyakusha had similar responsibilities and also organized funerals and baptized children with permission to baptize from Rome. The kanbō were those who had left secular life but not taken formal vows, while the jihiyakusha were married and had a profession.\n\nThese groups were fundamental to the mission, and themselves depended on both the ecclesiastical hierarchy as well as the warlords who controlled the lands where they lived. Therefore, the success of the Japanese mission cannot be explained only as the result of the action of a brilliant group of missionaries, or of the commercial and political interests of a few \"daimyōs\" and traders.\n\nAt the same time the missionaries faced the hostility of many other \"daimyōs\". Christianity challenged Japanese civilization. A militant lay community, the main reason for missionary success in Japan, was also the main reason for the anti-Christian policy of the Tokugawa's bakufu.\n\nThe Jesuits in Japan had to maintain economic self-sufficiency because they could not expect stable and sufficient payment from their patron, the King of Portugal, but the king allowed the Jesuits to engage in trade with Japan. Such economic activity can be found in the work of Francis Xavier, the pioneer of Catholic missions in Japan, who covered the cost of missionary work through merchant trading. From the 1550s to the 1570s, the Jesuits covered all necessary expenses with trade profits and bought land in India.\n\nTheir officially recognized commercial activity was a fixed-amount entry into the Portuguese silk trade between Macau and Nagasaki. They financed to a certain amount the trade association in Macau, which purchased raw silk in Canton and sold it in Nagasaki. They did not confine their commercial activity to the official silk market but expanded into unauthorized markets. For the Macau-Nagasaki trade, they dealt in silk fabrics, gold, musk and other goods including military supplies and slavery. Sometimes, they even got involved in Spanish trade, prohibited by the kings of Spain and Portugal, and antagonizing the Portuguese traders.\n\nIt was mainly procurators who brokered Portuguese trade. They resided in Macau and Nagasaki, and accepted purchase commitments by Japanese customers such as the shogunate \"daimyō\" and wealthy merchants. By brokerage, the Jesuits could expect not only rebates but also favorable treatment from the authorities. For this reason, the office of procurator became an important post amongst the Jesuits in Japan. Although trade activities by the Jesuits ate into Portuguese trade interests, procurators continued their brokerage utilizing the authority of the Catholic Church. At the same time, Portuguese merchants required the assistance of procurators who were familiar with Japanese customs, since they established no permanent trading post in Japan. Probably the most notable procurator was João Rodrigues, who approached Toyotomi Hideyoshi and Tokugawa Ieyasu and even participated in the administration of Nagasaki.\n\nSuch commercial activities were contrary to the idea of honorable poverty that the priests held. But some Jesuits at this time placed the expansion of the society's influence before this ideal. Mendicant orders fiercely accused the Jesuits of being corrupt and even considered their activity as the primary reason for Japan's ban on Catholicism. Mendicant orders themselves were not necessarily uninvolved in commercial activities.\n\nMissionaries were not reluctant to take military action if they considered it an effective way to Christianize Japan. They often associated military action against Japan with the conquest of China. They thought that well-trained Japanese soldiers who had experienced long civil wars would help their countries conquer China. For example, Alessandro Valignano said to the Philippine Governor that it was impossible to conquer Japan because the Japanese were very brave and always received military training but that Japan would benefit them when they would conquer China. Francisco Cabral also reported to the King of Spain that priests were able to send to China two or three thousand Japanese Christian soldiers who were brave and were expected to serve the king with little pay.\n\nThe Jesuits provided various kinds of support including military support to Kirishitan \"daimyōs\" when they were threatened by non-Kirishitan \"daimyōs\". Most notable was their support of Ōmura Sumitada and Arima Harunobu, who fought against the anti-Catholic Ryuzoji clan. In the 1580s, Valignano believed in the effectiveness of military action and fortified Nagasaki and Mogi. In 1585, Gaspar Coelho asked the Spanish Philippines to send a fleet but the plan was rejected due to the shortness of its military capability. Christians Arima Harunobu and Paulo Okamoto were named as principals in an assassination plot to murder the magistrate in charge of the Shogunate's most important port city of Nagasaki.\n\nWhen the Jesuit priest Francis Xavier arrived, Japan was experiencing a nationwide civil war. Neither the emperor nor the Ashikaga shogun could exercise power over the nation. At first, Xavier planned to gain permission for building a mission from the emperor but was disappointed with the devastation of the imperial residence. The Jesuits approached \"daimyōs\" in southwestern Japan and succeeded in converting some of these \"daimyōs\". One reason for their conversion may have been the Portuguese trade in which the Jesuits acted as brokers. The Jesuits recognized this and approached local rulers with offers of trade and exotic gifts.\n\nThe Jesuits attempted to expand their activity to Kyoto and the surrounding regions. In 1559, Gaspar Vilela obtained permission from Ashikaga Yoshiteru to teach Christianity. This license was the same as those given to Buddhist temples, so special treatment cannot be confirmed regarding the Jesuits. On the other hand, Emperor Ōgimachi issued edicts to ban Catholicism in 1565 and 1568. The orders of the Emperor and the Shogun made little difference.\n\nChristians refer positively to Oda Nobunaga, who died in the middle of the unification of Japan. He favored the Jesuit missionary Luís Fróis and generally tolerated Christianity. But overall, he undertook no remarkable policies toward Catholicism. Actually, Catholic power in his domain was trivial because he did not conquer western Japan, where the Jesuits were based. By 1579, at the height of missionary activity, there were about 130,000 converts.\n\nThe situation was changed when Toyotomi Hideyoshi reunified Japan. Once he became the ruler of Japan, Hideyoshi began to pay attention to external threats, particularly the expansion of European power in East Asia. The turning point for Catholic missions was the San Felipe incident, where in an attempt to recover his cargo, the Spanish captain of a shipwrecked trading vessel claimed that the missionaries were there to prepare Japan for conquest. These claims made Hideyoshi suspicious of the foreign religion. He attempted to curb Catholicism while maintaining good trading relations with Portugal and Spain, which might have provided military support to Dom Justo Takayama, a Christian \"daimyō\" in western Japan. Many \"daimyōs\" converted to Christianity in order to gain more favorable access to saltpeter, used to make gunpowder. Between 1553 and 1620, eighty-six \"daimyōs\" were officially baptized, and many more were sympathetic to the Christians.\n\nBy 1587, Hideyoshi had become alarmed, not because of too many converts but rather because the hegemon learned that Christian lords reportedly oversaw forced conversions of retainers and commoners, that they had garrisoned the city of Nagasaki, that they participated in the slave trade of other Japanese and, apparently offending Hideyoshi's Buddhist sentiments, that they allowed the slaughter of horses and oxen for food. After his invasion of Kyushu, Hideyoshi Toyotomi promulgated the on July 24, 1587. It consists of 11 articles: \"No. 10. Do not sell Japanese people to the Nanban (Portuguese).\" Among the contents were a ban on missionaries. The Jesuits in Nagasaki considered armed resistance, but the plans did not come to fruition. Led by Coelho, they sought help from Kirishitan \"daimyōs\", but the \"daimyōs\" refused. Then they called for a deployment of reinforcements from their homeland and its colonies, but this plan was abolished by Valignano. Like the Kirishitan \"daimyōs\", he realized that a military campaign against Japan's powerful ruler would bring catastrophe to Catholicism in Japan. Valignano survived the crisis by laying all the blame on Coelho, and in 1590, the Jesuits decided to stop intervening in the struggles between the \"daimyōs\" and to disarm themselves. They only gave secret shipments of food and financial aid to Kirishitan \"daimyōs\".\n\nHowever, the 1587 decree was not particularly enforced. In contrast to the Jesuits, the Dominicans, Franciscans, and Augustinians were openly preaching to the common peoples; this caused Hideyoshi to become concerned that commoners with divided loyalties might lead to dangerous rebels like the Ikkō-ikki sect of earlier years; this led to Hideyoshi putting the 26 Martyrs of Japan followers to death in 1597 on his order. After Hideyoshi died in 1598, amidst the chaos of succession there was less of a focus on persecuting Christians.\n\nBy the end of the 16th century, the Japanese mission had become the largest overseas Christian community that was not under the rule of a European power. Its uniqueness was emphasized by Alessandro Valignano since 1582, who promoted a deeper accommodation of Japanese culture. Japan was then the sole overseas country in which all members of those confraternities were locals, as was the case with Christian missions in Mexico, Peru, Brazil, the Philippines, or India, in spite of the presence of a colonial elite.\n\nMost Japanese Christians lived in Kyushu, but Christianization was not a regional phenomenon and had a national impact. By the end of the 16th century it was possible to find baptized people in virtually every province of Japan, many of them organized in communities. On the eve of the Sekigahara battle, fifteen \"daimyōs\" were baptized, and their domains stretched from Hyūga in Southeast Kyushu to Dewa in North Honshū. Hundreds of churches had been built throughout Japan.\n\nAccepted on a national scale, Christianity was also successful among different social groups from the poor to the rich, peasants, traders, sailors, warriors, or courtesans. Most of the daily activities of the Church were done by Japanese from the beginning, giving the Japanese Church a native face, and this was one of the reasons for its success. By 1590, there were seventy native brothers in Japan, fully one half of Jesuits in Japan, and fifteen percent of all Jesuits who were working in Asia.\n\nIn June 1592, Hideyoshi invaded Korea; among his leading generals was Christian \"daimyō\" Konishi Yukinaga. The actions of his forces in the massacre and enslavement of many of the Korean people were indistinguishable from the non-Christian Japanese forces that participated in the invasion. After Konishi's loss in the battle of Sekigahara, Konishi would base his refusal to commit seppuku on his Christian beliefs; instead of taking his own life, he chose capture and execution.\n\nThe 1592 war between Japan and Korea also provided Westerners with a rare opportunity to visit Korea. Under orders of Gomaz, the Jesuit Gregorious de Cespedes arrived in Korea with a Japanese monk for the purpose of administering to the Japanese troops. He stayed there for approximately 18 months, until April or May 1595, thus being on record as the first European missionary to visit the Korean peninsula, but was unable to make any inroads. The \"Annual Letters of Japan\" made a substantial contribution to the introduction of Korea to Europe, Francis Xavier having crossed paths with Korean envoys dispatched to Japan during 1550 and 1551.\n\nThe Japanese missions were economically self-sufficient. Nagasaki's misericórdias became rich and powerful institutions which every year received large donations. The brotherhood grew in numbers to over 100 by 1585 and 150 in 1609. Controlled by the elite of Nagasaki, and not by Portuguese, it had two hospitals (one for lepers) and a large church. By 1606, there already existed a feminine religious order called Miyako no Bikuni (\"nuns of Kyoto\") which accepted Korean converts such as Marina Pak, baptized in Nagasaki. Nagasaki was called \"the Rome of Japan\" and most of its inhabitants were Christians. By 1611, it had ten churches and was divided into eight parishes including a specifically Korean order.\n\nFollowing Toyotomi Hideyoshi's death in 1598, Tokugawa Ieyasu assumed power over Japan in 1600. Like Toyotomi Hideyoshi, he disliked Christian activities in Japan but gave priority to trade with Portugal and Spain. He secured Portuguese trade in 1600. He negotiated with Manila to establish trade with the Philippines. The trade promotion made his policies toward Catholicism inconsistent. At the same time, in an attempt to wrest control of the Japan trade from the Catholic countries, Dutch and British traders advised the Shogunate that Spain did indeed have territorial ambitions, and that Catholicism was Spain's principal means. The Dutch and British promised, in distinction, that they would limit themselves to trading and would not conduct missionary activities in Japan.\n\nIt seems that the Jesuits realized that the Tokugawa shogunate was much stronger and more stable than Toyotomi Hideyoshi's administration, yet the mendicant orders discussed military options relatively openly. In 1615, a Franciscan emissary of the Viceroy of New Spain asked the shogun for land to build a Spanish fortress and this deepened Japan's suspicion against Catholicism and the Iberian colonial powers behind it. The Jesuits and the Mendicant Orders kept a lasting rivalry over the Japanese mission and attached to different imperial strategies.\n\nThe Tokugawa shogunate finally decided to ban Catholicism. The statement on the \"Expulsion of all missionaries from Japan\", drafted by Zen monk Konchiin Suden (1563–1633) and issued in 1614 under the name of second shogun Hidetada (ruled 1605-1623), was considered the first official statement of a comprehensive control of Kirishitan. It claimed that the Christians were bringing disorder to Japanese society and that their followers \"contravene governmental regulations, traduce Shinto, calumniate the True Law, destroy regulations, and corrupt goodness\". It was fully implemented and canonized as one of the fundamental Tokugawan laws. In the same year, the bakufu required all subjects of all domains to register at their local Buddhist temple; this would become an annual requirement in 1666, cementing the Buddhist temples as an instrument of state control.\n\nThe immediate cause of the prohibition was the Okamoto Daihachi incident, a case of fraud involving Ieyasu's Catholic vavasor, but there were also other reasons behind it. The shogunate was concerned about a possible invasion by the Iberian colonial powers, which had previously occurred in the New World and the Philippines. Domestically, the ban was closely related to measures against the Toyotomi clan. \nThe Buddhist ecclesiastical establishment was made responsible for verifying that a person was not a Christian through what became known as the \"temple guarantee system\" (terauke seido). By the 1630s, people were being required to produce a certificate of affiliation with a Buddhist temple as proof of religious orthodoxy, social acceptability and loyalty to the regime.\n\nIn the mid-17th century, the shogunate demanded the expulsion of all European missionaries and the execution of all converts. This marked the end of open Christianity in Japan. The bakufu erected bulletin boards nationwide at crossroads and bridges; among the many proscriptions listed on these boards were strict warnings against Christianity.\n\nThe systematic persecution beginning in 1614 faced stiff resistance from Christians, despite the departure of more than half the clergy. Once again, the main reason for this resistance was not the presence of a few priests but rather the self-organization of many communities. Forced to secrecy, and having a small number of clergymen working underground, the Japanese Church was able to recruit leadership from among lay members. Japanese children caused admiration among the Portuguese and seem to have participated actively in the resistance. Nagasaki remained a Christian city in the first decades of the 17th century and during the general persecutions other confraternities were founded in Shimabara, Kinai and Franciscans in Edo.\nThe number of active Christians is estimated to have been around 200,000 in 1582. There were likely around 1,000 known martyrs during the missionary period. In contrast, Christians attach a great importance to martyrdom and persecution, noting that countless more people were dispossessed of their land and property leading to their subsequent death in poverty.\n\nThe Japanese government used \"fumi-e\" to reveal practicing Catholics and sympathizers. \"Fumi-e\" were pictures of the Virgin Mary or Christ. People reluctant to step on the pictures were identified as Christian and taken to Nagasaki. If they refused to renounce their religion, they were tortured; those who still refused were executed.\n\nThe Shimabara Rebellion, led by a young Christian man named Amakusa Shirō Tokisada, took place against the shogunate in 1637. The rebellion broke out over economic desperation and government oppression but later assumed a religious tone. About 27,000 people joined the uprising, but it was crushed by the shogunate after a sustained campaign. The reigning shogun, Tokugawa Iemitsu, who had issued the Sakoku Edict, restricting trade and effectively isolating Japan, two years earlier, came down hard on the Christians. Many Japanese were deported to Macau or to the Spanish Philippines. Many Macanese and Japanese Mestizos are the mixed-race descendants of the deported Japanese Catholics. About 400 were officially deported by the government to Macau and Manila, but thousands of Japanese were pressured into moving voluntarily. About 10,000 Macanese and 3,000 Japanese were moved to Manila.\n\nThe Catholic remnant in Japan were driven underground, and its members became known as the \"Hidden Christians\". Some priests remained in Japan illegally, including 18 Jesuits, seven Franciscans, seven Dominicans, one Augustinian, five seculars and an unknown number of Jesuit irmao and dojuku. Since this time corresponds to the Thirty Years' War between Catholics and Protestants in Germany, it is possible that the checking of Catholic power in Europe reduced the flow of funds to the Catholic missions in Japan, which could be why they failed at this time and not before. During the Edo period, the Kakure Kirishitan kept their faith. Biblical phrases or prayers were transferred orally from parent to child, and secret posts (mizukata) were assigned in their underground community to baptize their children, all while regional governments continuously operated fumi-e to expose Christians.\n\nThose who participated in the Shimabara Revolt are not considered to be martyrs by the Catholic Church since they took up arms for materialistic reasons.\n\nDrawn from the oral histories of Japanese Catholic communities, Shūsaku Endō's novel \"Silence\" provides detailed accounts of the persecution of Christian communities and the suppression of the Church.\n\nJapan was forced to open to foreign interaction by Matthew Perry in 1853. It became possible for foreigners to live in Japan with the Harris Treaty in 1858. Many Christian clergymen were sent from Catholic, Protestant and Orthodox Churches, though proselytizing was still banned. In 1865, some of the Japanese who lived in Urakami village near Nagasaki visited the new Ōura Church which had been built by the Paris Foreign Missions Society () barely a month before. A female member of the group spoke to a French priest, Bernard Petitjean, and confessed that their families had kept the Kirishitan faith. Those Kirishitan wanted to see the statue of St. Mary with their own eyes, and to confirm that the priest was single and truly came from the pope in Rome. After this interview, many Kirishitan thronged toward Petitjean. He investigated their underground organizations and discovered that they had kept the rite of baptism and the liturgical years without European priests for nearly 250 years. Petitjean’s report surprised the Christian world; Pope Pius IX called it a miracle.\n\nThe Edo Shogunate's edicts banning Christianity were still on the books, however, and thus the religion continued to be persecuted up to 1867, the last year of its rule. Robert Bruce Van Valkenburgh, the American minister-resident in Japan, privately complained of this persecution to the Nagasaki magistrates, though little action was taken to stop it. The succeeding government under Emperor Meiji, who took over from the Tokugawa shogunate in 1868, initially continued in this vein and several thousand people were exiled (Urakami Yoban Kuzure). After Europe and the U.S. began to vocally criticize the persecution, the Japanese government realized that it needed to lift the ban in order to attain its interests. In 1873 the ban was lifted. Numerous exiles returned and began construction of the Urakami Cathedral, which was completed in 1895.\n\nIt was later revealed that tens of thousands of Kirishitan still survived in some regions near Nagasaki. Some officially returned to the Roman Catholic Church. Others remained apart from the Catholic Church and have stayed as Kakure Kirishitan, retaining their own traditional beliefs and their descendants asserting that they keep their ancestors' religion. However, it became difficult for them to keep their community and rituals, so they have converted to Buddhism or Shinto eventually. When John Paul II visited Nagasaki in 1981, he baptized some young people from Kakure Kirishitan families, a rare occurrence.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38128885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38128885", "title": "Kong Xuan", "text": "Kong Xuan\n\nKong Xuan (孔宣) is a peacock spirit who became King Zhou’s general in the novel \"Fengshen Yanyi\". His character is based on Mahamayuri from Buddhist myth.\n\nWhen the evil king Zhou, the last ruler of Shang dynasty was rebelled against by his former subordinate King Wu, general Kong Xuan fought the rebel army in the Golden Cock Range.\n\nKong Xuan has five different rays of light which will sweep his enemy into a void, thus he gave king Wu’s armies a hard times against him. Even king Wu’s mightiest generals such as Nezha and Yang Jian (Erlang Shen) are no match against him.\n\nHowever, in the end Kong Quan is defeated by Candi, a Buddha from the west. He then reverted into his original form a giant peacock and become Candi’s mount.\n\n"}
{"id": "5967966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5967966", "title": "Legio Maria", "text": "Legio Maria\n\nLegio Maria (Latin, “Legion of Mary”) — also known as Legio Maria of African Church Mission, and Maria Legio — is an African initiated church or new religious movement initiating among the Luo people of western Kenya, which is an extension of an interpretation of the Three Secrets of Fátima to a new, albeit African, context. The religious movement was initiated by repeated appearances of a mystic woman to several Roman Catholic members delivering messages about the incarnation of the son of God as a black man. These appearances are said to have begun around 1938, almost simultaneous with the beginning of Edel Quinn's lay catholic mission on behalf of the Legion of Mary to Africa.\n\nBy the early 1960s, the movement had assembled a good number of catechists, acolytes, and believers in a spiritual return of Jesus Christ. The continuous expansion of this movement coupled with its belief in Simeo Ondetto as the returned Son of God led to theological tension, and eventual break with the lay Catholic movement, the Legion of Mary. Legio Maria was legally registered in Kenya in 1966 as a church, expanded massively in the late 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s, and eventually spread to many countries in Africa, including Uganda, Tanzania, Congo, Zaire, Rwanda, Ethiopia, Sudan, and Nigeria. In 1966, one of its founders, Mama Maria, died and was buried at Efeso Church, in Nzoia, Siaya County, while the principal founder, Simeo Ondetto, died in 1991 and was buried in Got Calvary, in Migori County.\n\nLegio Maria developed gradually and eventually separated from mainstream Roman Catholicism in 1963. What is now Legio Maria started from the Catholic lay movement as far back as 1938-1940. Central to its formation are the local Luo myths about a mystery woman, min Omolo Ka-Nyunja, who walked Luo land during these years. A number of Legio Maria faithfuls believe that this woman was responsible for the mythical stories such as Nyamgondho Kombare in Gwassi, Homa Bay County, and Simbi Nyaima in Karachuonyo, Homa Bay County. According to Tobias Oloo, a Legio Maria Deacon and researcher, \"every religion has mythical elements and the Legio Maria movement's development relied massively on the crystallization of local myths with their beliefs.\" Apart from the myths that probably preceded Legio Maria, Deacon Oloo affirms that the Fátima Visitation of Virgin Mary was a key ingredient to the formation of Legio Maria. \"As legios, we recognize the three Fatima mysteries. However, the most important for us is the third mystery which predicted the appearance of Our Lord in the 1960s. Though this mystery is controversial because the Roman Catholic did not reveal it for generations and what they eventually revealed is still contested by many Christians, we have faith that through the third mystery Mary promised the coming of Simeo Ondetto.\"\n\nIn 1963 a movement of dissatisfied Roman Catholics in south Nyanza Province left the Diocese of Kisii and formed the Legio Maria Church, or Legion of Mary Church, under the leadership of the Lodvikus-son of God Simeo Melkio Ondetto and an old mystic woman named Mama Maria. This mystic woman is the one Legio Maria adherents relate with the Fátima Secrets. She is believed to have called a number of Catholics to the new movement by visionary appearances, telling them to look forward to her son who had come to Africa. Her spiritual son, Simeo Ondetto, was then a catechist in Roman Catholic Church. Ondetto was excommunicated by the Catholic Church in the 1960s. By 1980 the church numbered 248,000 adherents. Government estimates at the time of the split from the Catholic Church stated that there were nearly 90,000 followers of Legio Maria. By 1968, it had become a member of the East African United Churches.\n\nThe Legio Maria Church was not the only church schism among the Luo people in the early years of Kenyan independence. Catholic missionaries had been working among the Luo for 61 years before the 1963 split. By 1966 there were 31 “distinct Luo separatist churches registered with the Kenyan Government.” Across Kenya, “by 1966 there were 160 distinct bodies with a total of 600,000 adherents, most of whom were formerly members of the Protestant or Catholic Churches,” with the Legion of Mary Church being the largest of the schisms from the Catholic Church. Today, estimates of the number of Legio Maria adherents range from 3.5 to 4 million or down to just over three million. In this regard, the Legio Maria Church is one of the most resilient and successful of the African initiated churches.\n\nWhile the Legio Maria Church began exclusively as a movement among the Luo people, it is now found all over Kenya and even has significant numbers of communities among the Turkana, Kalenjin, Kamba and Luhya peoples of Kenya and in Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, DRC, and Ethiopia. In 1979, the word \"mission\" was added to the church's official name, becoming the “Legio Maria of African Church Mission.”\n\nAccording to Legio Maria leaders and researchers, the origins of the movement can be traced to the convergence of at least four separate events: the concealment by the Roman Catholic Church of ‘the third secret of Fátima;’ the visions of Mary to several people informing them of the coming of her son; Simeo Ondetto’s supernatural attributes that established him as a spiritual leader; the coming of the Holy Spirit at the home of John Baru in Suna Migori and the Spirit's declaration that Simeo Ondetto is the incarnated son of God; and several miracles and wonders that accompanied the mission of Ondetto, Mary, and numberless Legio Prophets.\n\nLegio Maria had many notable prophets at its founding. According to Tobias Oloo,it is the massive number of prophets and prophetesses in Legio Maria that made it break into a formidable religious organization. Among the prophets that Oloo attributes the success of a young legio movement to are Tobias Oongo, Silvester Okweto, Sila of Yimbo, Siprianus Ochien'g, and Gaudencia Aoko. The name of Gaudencia Aoko has featured prominently as a founder and even a co-equal with Simeo Ondetto, but according to Tobias Oloo, this is a confusion. Oloo affirmed that Gaudencia Aoko achieved great feats for Legio Maria, but was in no way comparable to Simeo Ondetto. Born among the Luo of western Kenya, Aoko was only 20 when she joined Legio Maria. The death of her two children, apparently thought to be due to witchcraft pushed her to seek divine intervention from the 'budding prophet Simeo Ondetto' leading to her eventual conversion. Aoko was referred to Ondetto by her brother-in-law, Johanes Muga, and went to Ondetto to seek help. She was commissioned to pray for the sick with Rosary and to battle witchcraft by Simeo Ondetto and the old woman, Mama Maria. Going back to her homeland in Kano and stretching to Alego, Siaya, of Western Kenya, Aoko exorcised evil spirits, burnt amulets, and converted many people to the Legio movement. Tobias Oloo insists that it is the agility of the young Aoko that led to her being confused with the 90-year-old legio maria founder, Mama Maria. Migori\n\nThe Three Secrets of Fátima are related to a number of appearances of Mary to three shepherd children in 1917 at Fátima, Portugal. It was there that Mary revealed three secrets to the shepherds. The Catholic Church released the first two secrets in the 1940s but the surviving shepherd did not write down the third secret until 1944. She sealed the envelope and instructed the church to not open the secret until 1960. The Legio Maria Church believes that Church officials in Rome refused to release the true secret because it revealed Mary's prophecy of a Black Christ for Africa. Schwartz recounts the theory:\nIn 2000, the Catholic Church released the official third secret of Fátima alongside a commentary on the meaning of the secret written by then Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger.\n\nWhile at Sagegi in 1958, serving as a Catholic catechist, and living in the home of another catechist known as Petrus Pitalis Ogeka, Simeo Ondeto is said to have died for 3 days and came back to life with a mission-focused approach. After rising from death, Ondetto began to call himself the son of God. He was now preaching that he had gone to confer with God the Father about his mission and was freed to begin his mission. He describes a visit to heaven, chats with saints, angels, and God. Simeo Ondetto permitted the baptism of polygamists and the baptism of old Catholic converts without going through catechism training. He also said that he was sent to start a church called Legio Maria.\n\nAccording to early adherents of Legio Maria, the Virgin Mary began appearing among the Luo people in the late 1920s. In their accounts, they say that she first appeared as an extraordinary itinerary woman. At a time estimated to be around 1935, this woman was walking at Awendo market in South Nyanza, when an empathizing tailor known as Omollo who was the son of Nyunja of Alego, Udida, gave her a dress gift. This woman is said to have promised Omollo an eternal name among the Luos. From that day on she began calling herself the mother of Omollo. By the 1940s, this woman is claimed to have visited the Catholic parish of Nyandago and conversed with over five members of its clergy about the mission of Ondetto. However, priests at Nyandago mission discounted the supposed apparitions, stating that Mary could not appear as a Black African.\n\nLegio tradition tells of Mary and her son being incarnated as Luo in the beginning of the 1900s, with Mary entering into an earlier time period than Jesus. Mary wandered throughout Luo land during this time, performing healings and other miracles; the church was officially organised “when the 90-year-old Mary and her adult spiritual Son, Simeo Ondeto, were reunited in Suna, South Nyanza followed by the coming of the Holy Spirit(Mount the World Has Opened to the Light).” Schwartz recounts that the \"Black Mary 'returned to Heaven' on 23 December 1966, and that those who met her claimed “direct personal experience of Mary’s disclosure of the meanings of the 'Third Secret of Fatima,'\" in which it was revealed that “the Virgin Mary brought a new liberating religion for the world through an African Mission!” At nearly 90 years of age, from 1963 to 1966, the mystical Mary could not reach many places. This resulted in the confusion of Gaudencia Aoko, a prophet, with Mama Maria, the harbinger who prepared the world for the coming of her son.\n\nBorn in around 1926 to Luo parents, Margaret Aduwo and Obimbo Misumba, the Black Son of God (Simeo Ondeto) grew up in Angoro village, Kano location, near the Nyanza-Rift Valley border. He was named Ondetto by his parents and later got baptised as Simeo after years of studying catechism. According to his brother, Nelson Owino Obimbo, a Legio Maria Cardinal Dean(2011), Simeo was an extraordinary child. Owino who is older than Ondetto lists around six childhood miracles performed by Ondetto while young. Ondetto left their home in Awasi as a young man, worked at Miwani Sugar Company in Western Kenya for a short duration before moving to Tanzania Mara to stay with his relatives there. Around 1955,Ondetto returned home in Awasi, only focused on a missionary life. To find a way of keeping him home, his parents called a meeting that resolved that the only way to keep him home was to have him get married. Ondetto declined the offer of a wife and instead kept a life of solitude and meditation. He moved to Sagegi to live with a catholic catechist before starting the Legio movement.\n\nAfter joining the Legio movement, Gaudencia Aoko converted so many people. In Luo central Nyanza, she was the most visible figure of Legio Maria during its founding years. That she was the founder of Legio is often a confusion with Mama Maria, a 90-year old mystic woman who revealed visions to many Legions. When official church doctrine restricted Aoko's role to only a prophet and legio nun, without giving her the priestly position that she had occupied in the lives of the many people she converted, conflict set in. Aoko, felt females were not being given enough room. According to Deacon Tobias Oloo, Aoko's departure from Legio Maria was not a statement that she did not believe in Ondetto as God. In fact, Oloo affirms that Aoko continued to revere Ondetto even after her departure, using the images of Ondetto and Mama Maria on her worship altars and advising her followers to do so. Nonetheless, during her tense battles to retain her high position in Legio Maria, in 1968, Aoko went to a press conference and announced that she was the official founder of Legio, and expelled Simeo Ondetto and two other leaders of the church for giving themselves the titles of “God,” “Pope,” and “Cardinal.” This moment of decision is recognized as Aoko's spiritual downfall. She lost her charisma; went for a second baptism in Tanzania Mara by Mercellianus Orongo, another Legion who left the movement because of Ondetto's claims to be the son of God; and by 1971, Aoko was negotiating a return to Legio Maria as an ordinary worshiper.\n\nThe full official title for Simeo Ondeto became Baba Simeo Lodvikus Melkio, the eternal spiritual leader and mediator of Legio Maria.\nThe administrative duties of the church were put under a Pope. So far, there have been four such popes:\n\nBy 2010, there were differences in Legio Maria that led to the coronation of a cardinal, Romanus On'gombe, as a pope while Rafael Adika still claimed the position. The differences between the two leaders has taken legio Maria to the courts more than three times, and the differences still persist. According to Deacon Tobias Oloo, the differences will end soon. \"Simeo Ondetto has foretold those differences and said that legio Marias unity will return under the fourth pope.\"\nUnder the popes are over 500 deacons, 350 priests, 60 bishops, 21 archbishops and 17 cardinals. Currently, all these lower hierarchies swear allegiance to the different sides led by Adika and On'gombe. Some notable people on the On'gombe side are On'gawo Aloo (Cardinal Admin), Owino Obimbo (cardinal Dean), Romanus Odongo (Arch-bishop-Rongo), the late Susana nyar Ouma (Ondetto's cook), and Bishop Melkio. Notable people on Adika's side are Cardinal Atieno (cardinal admin), Maurice Akello (chief-Deacon), Elias Komenya, Mother Dorina (Ka-Baru, and Hellena nyar Rosari.\nA parallel hierarchy to the male priesthood is the Legio Maria women priesthood that is led by Nuns (Mothers). Legio nuns are married women who are ordained. The lowest female rank in Legio Maria church is sisterhood, then mother (heads a mission), superior mother (heads a diocese), arch mother (heads an arch diocese), and Dean mother (head of legio mothers).\nBelow the clergy are church teachers and church administrators who are elected by the faithful. Prophets are also core to the Legio Maria mission because the church is Spirit Initiated.\n\nLegio Maria believes that Simeo Ondeto is alive forever. According to Romanus On'gombe: \"Simeo is God. God never dies, he lives. Even those christians who believe that Jesus was dead body and soul are simply mistaken. If Jesus is God he never died because God never dies. What happened is that God was incarnated and took up a body like ours. When he returns to heaven, he gives up this body and remains God. He becomes spirit as he was before he became a body.\"\nIndeed, Legio Maria members attest to post-death appearances of Simeo Ondeto. They assert that Simeo Ondeto appeared at Calvary to many people before his burial. That Simeo Ondeto appeared to a doctor who was called to preserve his body and the physician ran away after seeing Ondeto alive; that Simeo Ondeto spoke through the spirit even when his flesh was yet to be buried; that on the day of his burial, Simeo Ondeto appeared to a group of Legio Maria prophets called the Michaels' and asked them to go pray for the sick instead of mourning; and that Simeo Ondeto appeared to Dalmas Oyier, his closest friend several weeks after he was buried. Legio Maria faithful also attest that Simeo Ondeto appeared and taught them during two of his memorials. Ondeto is said to have appeared in person in his memorial of 1992 and to over 30,000 Legio Maria faithful in his memorial of 2012.\n\nAccording to Legio Maria teaching Simeo Ondetto is the son of God sent to establish the glory of God on earth. Legio Maria believes in dispensations or times when God has stepped into human history after the fall of man. The first is found in the Old Testament “when the High Priest Melchizedek appeared to Abraham. Melchizedek established a reign of a monotheistic awareness which ended with the arrival of Jesus. The dispensation established by Jesus was one of recognising the trinity, of individual salvation, and established universal barometer of religion which is love. Instead of the law, the second dispensation is characterised by love. The third dispensation is the reign of God established by Simeo Ondetto as Lodvikus, that is the son of God sent to show the glory of God to the World. In Legio Maria theology, the second person of the trinity has appeared in history three times: as Melchizedek Son of God to define the history of the human redemption by blessing God's chosen race through Abraham; as Jesus to conclude the mission of redemption, opening it and teaching the core element which is love; and as Simeo Lodvikus, to reveal the glory of life after death and the nature of God. To Legio Maria faithfuls, Simeo Ondetto, Jesus of Nazareth and Melchizedek are one and the same person incarnated during different dispensations of human history. \nSimeo Ondeto is known as the Lodvikus or The Glory of God, whose role is to bring the world to understand the hidden treasures of life after death and dramatise the reality of eternal life. According to Legio Maria the promise by Jesus to return has been fulfilled by the coming of Simeo. Legio Maria also seems not to believe in a final judgement of the whole world. They believe in immediate judgement of individuals immediately after death. This is supported by the long list of adored Legio saints. Some of the official Legio Maria saints include Timotheo Atila, Maria Ombwayo, Tobias Oongo, Petro Otieno, Mumbo Carilus and Angi Clement. Church leaders distinguish Messias Simeo Ondeto's mission as separate from that of Jesus. He was not sent to replace Jesus, for Jesus was a name given to the son of God when he accomplished a second dispensational mission. Instead, Messias Simeo Ondeto is God incarnated in another context, specifically for the third dispensation of the glory of God. Often, 1 John 4:1 is used as biblical support for the confession that God has again come into the flesh through Messias Simeo Ondeto, for “every spirit which confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God and every Spirit that does not confess Jesus is not of God…Therefore we say that Jesus has come in the flesh.\nFinding Africa in the yoke of colonialism, Simeo is also talked of as a saviour from the oppression of colonialism and “healer and protector from the evils of witchcraft.” Simeo Ondeto is not seen merely God’s messenger, but as “the actual embodiment of God in history.”\nIn their affirmation that Messias Simeo Ondeto is the Black Messiah, the Legio Maria do not exclude the possibility and reality that the Messiah has been incarnated in multiple times and contexts. In interviews during her three years researching the Legio Maria Church, Nancy Schwartz relates,\n\nmost Legios insisted to me that theirs was not the only way to choose light and Heaven. The Baba Messias Ondeto had preached that ‘God is a polygynist’ who loves ‘all the houses in his home’. All religions, he had said, are akin to ‘branches of a tree that bears fruit’. Legios reiterated that black and white people could both get to Heaven, if they followed their faiths.\n\nThus, salvation is available through other religions and revelations of God. While the Legio are clear that God has provided specific revelations and even incarnations for different peoples of the world, this does not translate into an exclusivist position in which only adherents of Legio Maria will be with God in heaven. According to Schwartz, “most Legios affirmed that Heaven was a place where the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, Mary, saints, angels and Old Testament prophets and patriarchs are without color, a place where there is nothing like Mzungu (European/white person) and African.” She concludes that the Legio Maria Church has “formulat[ed] their own version of an anti-racist black liberation theology,” which is unique.\n\nThe Legio Maria Church meets as individual congregations for regular prayer and worship. Often the congregations live together in community homes. The Church uses many Roman Catholic hymns in worship services, and employs both original Legio Maria songs and Catholic hymns in informal services, often accompanied with singing, teaching and prayers. Crosses, swords and other symbols are often carried by male adherents or worn around their necks. During worship, both men and women wear robes and women additionally wear head coverings. The robes and head coverings can be any number of colours, and some communities wear their robes at all times as a distinguishing mark of Legio identity. Candles are normally present in worship as representations of spiritual presence. The Legio, in addition to Legio-specific African saints, recognise most Roman Catholic saints.\n\nAs an AIC, some aspects of African traditional religion and beliefs are incorporated into the church, including the early revelation to Simeo Ondeto that polygamists could be baptised into the church. In this sense, the church is more willing to accept some cultural practices, but this is balanced by a strict sense of holiness. According to Dirven, there are also “rigorous and legalistic taboos to drinking, smoking, dancing and wearing shoes in holy places — trumpeted as the essence of a strict moral code.”\n\nEssentially Legio Maria is a spirit reliant religious movement. All the adherents respect the spirit as the guide of Legio. Even while the Simeo Ondeto and the Black Mary were still alive, it was possible for them to be in one place in Kenya while teaching and visiting other adherents through spirit delivered teachings of glossolalia and holy spirit possessing prophets to convey messages from them . It is a very serious offence to falsify the retelling of encounters with the holy ones in a glossolalia. Such actions could lead to an official rebuke from the priest, or even a beating, called a \"chwat\", from one’s local community.\n\nThe spirit also provide direction for the individuals in regard to spiritual discipline practices and outward garments. While many AICs require adherents to exclusively wear white robes when worshipping, the Legio Maria church encourages adherents to listen for messages from angels in their dreams in regard to the color of robe they should wear. Schwartz recounts the varied meanings of these dream inspired colours:\n\nThe spirit can lead Legios to acquire robes of yellow, a range of blues, purple, green, red, brown and other colours that are associated with various spiritual gifts and patron saints. Black is for ordained male priests (padri, pl. pate) and church mothers (madha, padri madhako, pl. mathe, pate mamon). Legio priests and church mothers wear black robes at requiem masses and at graveside services held in family compounds. At happier times, black prayer beads are worn or carried by church mothers and priests as a metonym of power and ordained status. A few non-ordained men and women said they had the black beads on their house altars because a dream had directed them to get the beads and pray with them at home. The dream-bestowed black beads were a source of quiet pride to these Legios.\n\nIt is through the spirit that the Legio Maria adherents can also receive direction for the more mundane decisions in life.\n\nThe Legio Maria headquarters and center is St. Joseph church of Got Kwer, in Suna Migori. It is referred to as “Calvary” by Legio Maria adherents. This village of about 600 is approximately 15 km west of the southwestern Kenya town of Migori. Baba Simeo Ondeto's tomb is in this church, and is viewable as a long, cloth-covered plinth with numerous devotional objects scattered around. Both are maintained by local community followers. Other major Legio Maria's most recognised places are Effeso Nzoia where Mama Maria's remains were buried; Kodero; Jerusalem Amoyo in Kadem; St. Teresa Kariobangi in Nairobi; St. Peter Manyatta in Kisumu.\n\nThe Legio Maria of African Mission Church can be seen in both continuity and discontinuity with orthodox Christianity. While one of the main critiques of the Legio Maria Church from other Christians centres on the claim that Simeo Ondeto is the “Black Messiah,” there are many ways in which the Legio Maria are in continuity with the Catholic Church.\n\nFirst, the Legio Maria church recognises salvation through Jesus Christ, the Son of God. The discontinuity with orthodox theology is that the Son of God has been incarnated in multiple contexts, rejecting the orthodox doctrine of Christ taking a human body and soul for eternity. As we have seen in the above research, none of these incarnations are considered exclusive; they only serve to reveal Christ to people of different contexts. All who are saved through any of these incarnations of Christ will worship God together in heaven. Thus, for the Legio Church, salvation is found through Christ, as revealed in their particular Messias Simeo Ondeto.\n\nSecond, the Legio Maria church recognises an active spiritual realm that needs to be dealt with to respond to evil and illness. It is God who gives gifts to people for spiritual healing, sometimes through the saints. The Legio specifically recognise the Catholic saints Catherine of Siena and Bernadette of Lourdes in regard to spiritual healing. The Saints Samson and Julian, and the angel Michael help to “guide Legios with gifts for exorcism and battling witchcraft. In seeking guidance from these holy ones they are in continuity with Catholic theology, but this theology is applied to traditional religious understandings of evil and illness.\n\nAs stated above, the Legio Maria church is also in continuity with the Catholic Church in its use of Catholic hymns and the Catholic mass. Many Legio Maria communities still celebrate the Latin form of the mass. In addition, original Legio songs are added that reinforce the particularity of the Legio Maria church.\n\nAnother sign of continuity with the Catholic Church is that the Legio Maria include a white Catholic priest, Father Philip Chefa, among their saints. Serving at the Asumbi Roman Catholic mission station in the 1930s,\n\nChefa was said to have practiced a highly charismatic form of Catholicism that addressed his parishioners’ concerns. He had engaged in healing, exorcism, and the burning of paraphernalia associated with ‘witchcraft’ and indigenous spirit-possession. Chefa had treated people who later became Legios well. He had established a chapter of the Roman Catholic Legion of Mary for Luo in 1938.\n\nNot only does the Legio Maria Church acknowledge the Catholic saints as their own, but they have included some European priests who worked in Africa among their cloud of saints.\n\n"}
{"id": "17635451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17635451", "title": "List of atheists in music", "text": "List of atheists in music\n\nThis is a list of atheists in music. It documents atheists who have composed and/or performed music. Living persons in this list include those whose non-religiosity is relevant to their notable activities and public life, and who have publicly identified themselves as atheists.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38293848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38293848", "title": "List of bishops of Hamburg", "text": "List of bishops of Hamburg\n\nThis list of bishops, seniors, and superintendents of Hamburg records the spiritual heads of the Lutheran church in Hamburg. Originally the Lutheran church in Hamburg formed a state church established by Johannes Bugenhagen's church order on 15 May 1529, after most of Hamburg's burghers had adopted Lutheranism before. As state church it was governed in administrative matters by the Senate of Hamburg (city government) and the , according to the law named the Long Recess of 1529. At first the church order provided for superintendents as spiritual leaders. Since 1593 the spiritual leadership was wielded by a collegial body, the Spiritual Ministerium, with a senior elected by its members, the ministers (pastors) of the parishes. Separation of Church and State started in 1860, with the last privileges of state patronage waived in 1919. The new church order of 1923 enfranchised the synodals to elect one of the five \"Hauptpastoren\" (i.e. principal or head pastors) at the quintet of (principal or head churches) as senior.\n\nAfter the putsch in the synod of 1933 by conservative Lutherans the new hierarchical office of bishop was created, establishing episcopalism and doing away with synodal and presbyterial polity and neglecting the traditional function of senior and spiritual ministerium. In 1934 through a second putsch by German Christians, backed by secular Nazi authorities, one of their acolytes assumed the episcopate. After the British occupiers prompted the bishop's resignation in late 1945, the presbyterial and synodal constitution of 1923 was restored, however, retaining the title bishop, but stripped of any episcopal supremacy, and reestablishing the office of senior, then functioning as the bishop's deputy. Conservative Lutherans prevailed again reelecting their first bishop of 1933. In 1977 the Hamburg Church seized its independent existence and merged with three neighbouring church bodies, in 2012 another merger with two more church bodies followed. Spiritual leaders for the Hamburg region retained the title of bishop, however, the traditional Hamburg seniorate was ended in 1976.\n\n\"In Hamburg as in other cities, the parishes … had been not only church districts but also municipal political districts since the Middle Ages. They … formed four incorporated bodies (Petri, Nikolai, Katharinen, Jacobi) in which the “allodial” (property-owning) burghers and the heads of guilds - thus only a fraction of the male population - were entitled to vote. The Reformation brought with it a significant curtailment of the senate's governmental power.\" \"At about the same time, three deacons from each parish (twelve altogether), acting as “chief elders”, took on the task of centralizing, administering, and uniformly distributing relief to the poor.\" Later the parishioners of St. Michael's Church in the New Town, established as parish independent of St. Nicholas in 1647, were granted the same rights than the burghers in one of the four parishes in the Old Town, and the same number or representatives. Together with the four above-mentioned churches St. Michael's forms until today the quintet of Hamburg's \"head churches\". \"Beginning in 1685, there were thus fifteen chief elders: sixty deacons instead of forty-eight and 180 assembly members altogether, rather than 144. These structures existed into the nineteenth century, with each college recruiting new members from the next larger.\" Since Lutheran parishes and the collegial bodies staffed with their parishioners formed the constitutional bodies of Hamburg there was no easy way to open politics for non-Lutherans.\n\nThe superintendents were initially appointed by the senate. In 1593 the superintendency was given up and the pastors of the five urban congregations formed the spiritual ministerium (Geistliches Ministerium), collegially wielding spiritual leadership of the state church and electing from its midst one of the head pastors the senior as primus inter pares only.\n\nIn 1806 Hamburg turned into an independent sovereign city-state, annexed to France 1811-1814, and reconstituted thereafter. Reforms started with granting citizenship to non-Lutherans, and the full emancipation of Calvinists, Catholics and Jews until 1849. Adherents to these faithes could then enter officialdom and parliament. In 1860 the new Constitution of Hamburg provided for a start in separating state and church. Rather than the senate directly governing and administering Lutheran church matters, separate bodies were developed. The chief elders lost their role as constitutional body within Hamburg's administration, but continued as a body of Lutheran charity. The administration of the Lutheran state church was altered in order to become a body separate from the government. Only the Lutheran members within the senate formed a college in charge of confirming the acts passed by the synodals as well as the elections of various officeholders within the Church, such as the senior of Hamburg, pastors, synodals and even laymen in presbyteries. The Lutheran church established self-rule and in 1871 reconstituted as a regional Protestant church body called .\n\nThe spiritual leadership remained with the spiritual ministerium with its senior. In March 1919 the Lutheran senators waived the senate's supreme governance (; like the royal supreme governance of the Church of England), the privilege to confirm elected seniors and taken synodal decisions. The Lutheran Church in the Hamburg State accounted for this change and adopted a democratised constitution in 1923. The synod was now the highest legislator of the church, electing the church council (Kirchenrat), the executive, including the senior as its ex officio member. The senior again was still to be elected from the five head pastors, but not by the members of the spiritual ministerium, but by the synod. The spiritual ministerium, comprising all the Lutheran clergy, with many more than the five head churches and parishes being established in the 19th century, was redefined as a mere advisory and reviewing body.\n\nWith the introduction of the general and equal suffrage also for women and people with no or only low incomes in Hamburg in 1919 also the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the Hamburgian State established equal suffrage in presbyterial and synodal elections by an emergency ordinance in 1919 and its revised constitution in 1923.\n\nAfter Hindenburg's suspension of central Weimar Constitutional civil liberties, followed by the Nazi takeover on the Reich's level and with its Empowerment Act de facto doing away with state autonomy the last democratic senate was deposed, and the Hamburg parliament restaffed disregarding Hamburg's state election outcome but mirroring the rather Nazi-preferential allocation of seats realised on the Reich's level. This atmosphere of hunting democratic witches encouraged antirepublican Nazi-submissive synodals affiliated with the so-called \"German Christians\" and conservative antiliberal synodals of the so-called , led by Bernhard Heinrich Forck, to form a new majority in Hamburg's synod imposing a putsch within the church's bodies. The incumbent Senior Karl Horn was forced into resignation and an extraordinary synod convened. On 29 May 1933 this synod established the new function of a state bishop (Landesbischof) with hierarchic supremacy over all the clergy following the Nazi Führerprinzip, thus doing away with collegiality in church bodies, and empowered the new state bishop to rule discretionarily without the synod, abolishing the previously practised synodal and presbyterial polity in Hamburg's church. This putsch turned Hamburg's church into a streamlined church body subjected to a state bishop obedient to the new Nazi regime and open for any experiment as to domesticating Protestantism for the Nazi purpose.\n\nSo when Hitler's government imposed an unconstitutional premature reelection of all presbyters (elders) and the synod for 23 July 1933 – also in the other regional Protestant church bodies in Germany – the so-called \"German Christians\" and the \"Kirchenpartei\" (a merger including the Young-Reformatory Movement, dominated by the latter's proponents) presented the Lutheran Hamburg electorate united lists of candidates for the synod and all presbyteries, each staffed with 51% \"German Christians\" and 49% proponents of \"Gospel and Church\". So in Hamburg the election of synod and presbyteries turned into a sheer farce. So these united lists attracted the traditionally fragmented rightist faction within the Lutheran electorate, but granted the so-called \"German Christians\" a share in the seats far exceeding their proportion among Lutheran parishioners. Nazi government-funded propaganda mobilised previously inactive church members adhering to Nazism to vote for the united lists, causing a very high turnout of voters unheard of in earlier church elections. So the candidates of the united lists gained the majority in the synod and in most presbyteries.\n\nOpposition developed, called the Confessing Church, and its adherents considered the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the Hamburgian State to be a so-called \"destroyed church\" for having no unadulterated bodies and leadership anymore and thus not deserving the compliance of the opposing parishioners and clergy. Leading members of the confessing church in Hamburg, such as Forck and , had earlier themselves participated in the putsch streamlining their church. The \"German Christians\" radicalised during the 1930s so that Schöffel, himself a putschist, was forced to resign again in early March 1934. On 5 March succeeded.\n\nWith the defeat of Germany and its Nazi government the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the Hamburgian State returned to its pre-1933 constitution, only reluctantly cleansing its staff and bodies from few of the most extreme proponents of the \"German Christians\". However, its spiritual leaders continued to be titled bishop. With effect of 1 January 1977 the Evangelical Lutheran Church in the Hamburgian State merged with three neighbouring Lutheran churches in the new North Elbian Evangelical Lutheran Church, which - consisting of three spiritual ambits () – upheld the function of bishop of Hamburg until 2008. Since the episcopal ambits have been redrawn, with Hamburg being part of the new ambit called \"Hamburg and Lübeck\" including also parts of southeastern Holstein and Lübeck, but seated in Hamburg. This ambit structure continued also after the North Elbian Church merged with two neighbouring churches in the new Evangelical Lutheran Church in Northern Germany (abbr.: Northern Church)\n\nTitles and ambits of the incumbents altered. The respective incumbents of the spiritual leadership held the following titles and ambits :\n"}
{"id": "28548481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28548481", "title": "List of esoteric healing articles", "text": "List of esoteric healing articles\n\nEsoteric healing refers to numerous types of alternative therapy which aim to heal disease and disability, using esoteric means, either through faith and human will, or by using pseudoscientific processes. It was first published in the 1950s and was initially inspired by Djwhal Khul and Alice Bailey.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "208539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208539", "title": "Marie Laveau", "text": "Marie Laveau\n\nMarie Catherine Laveau (September 10, 1801– June 15, 1881) was a Louisiana Creole practitioner of Voodoo, who was renowned in New Orleans. Her daughter, Marie Laveau II, (1827 — c. 1862) also practiced rootwork, conjure, Native American and African spiritualism as well as Louisiana or what is known today as New Orleans Voodoo.\n\nHistorical records surmise that Marie Laveau was born free in the French Quarter of New Orleans, Louisiana, Thursday September 10, 1801. She was the biological daughter of Marguerite Henry (also known as Marguerite D'Arcantel), a free woman of colour who was of Native American, African and French descent, and Charles Laveau Trudeau, surveyor & politician. On August 4, 1819, she married Jacques Paris (also known as Jacques Santiago, in other records), a French immigrant who had fled as a white refugee from the black Haitian Revolution in the former French territory Saint-Domingue. Their marriage certificate is preserved in the St. Louis Cathedral in New Orleans. The wedding mass was performed by Father Antonio de Sedella, the Capuchin priest known as Pere Antoine.\n\nThe death of Jacques Paris was recorded in 1820. He was part of a large French immigration of refugees to New Orleans in 1809, after the Haitian Revolution of 1791-1804. They had two daughters, Felicite in 1817 and Angele in 1820. Both disappear from the records in the 1820s.\n\nLittle is known with certainty about the life of Marie Catherine Laveau. Marie Catherine (1801-1881) was approximately 1/3 each African, Native American and white. Laveau's only two children to survive into adulthood were daughters. The elder named Marie Euchariste Eloise Laveau (1827-1860-2), the second daughter was named Marie Philomene Glapion (1836-1897). It is not known which of these daughters went on to become Marie II.\n\nFollowing the reported death of her husband, she entered a domestic partnership with Christophe Dominick Duminy de Glapion, (a white man of French descent) with whom she lived until his death in 1855. They were reported to have had 15 children (or, perhaps fifteen children \"and grandchildren\"). They had 7 children according to birth and baptismal records.\n\nWhile it is difficult to determine the histories of the two Maries in tradition, it is believed that the elder Marie was a dedicated practitioner of Voodoo. The younger displayed more theatrical rubrics by holding public events (including inviting attendees to St. John's Eve rituals on Bayou St. John). \"Laveau was said to have traveled the streets like she owned them\" said one New Orleans boy who attended an event at St.John's. It is not known which (if either) had done more to establish the voodoo queen reputation.\n\nMarie Laveau I started a beauty parlor where she was a hair-dresser for the wealthier families of New Orleans. Of Laveau's magical career, there is little that can be substantiated, including whether or not she had a snake she named Zombi after an African god, whether the occult part of her magic mixed Roman Catholic saints with African spirits, or whether her divinations were supported by a network of informants she developed while working as a hairdresser in prominent white households. She appeared to excel at obtaining inside information on her wealthy patrons by instilling fear in their servants whom she either paid or cured of mysterious ailments.\n\nOn June 17, 1881, it was announced in the \"Daily Picayune\" that Marie Laveau had died peacefully in her home. However, oral tradition states that she was seen by some people in town after her supposed demise. One of her daughters, also named Marie (a French Catholic tradition to have the first names of daughters be Marie, and boys Joseph, then each use middle name as common name) possibly assumed her position, with her name, and carried on her magical practice, taking over as the queen soon before or after the first Marie's death.\n\nMarie Catherine Laveau Paris Glapion died on June 15, 1881, aged 79. The different spellings of her surname result from many different women with the same name in New Orleans at the time, and her age at death from conflicting accounts of her birth date.\n\nLaveau's name and her history have been surrounded by legend and lore. In 1982, New Jersey-based punk rock group The Misfits were arrested and accused of attempting to exhume Laveau from her grave after a local concert. The arrest took place in nearby Cemetery No. 2 and there are conflicting accounts of the incident.\n\nMarie Laveau is generally believed to have been buried in plot 347, the Glapion family crypt in Saint Louis Cemetery No. 1, New Orleans, but this has been disputed by Robert Tallant, a journalist who used her as a character in historical novels. Tourists continue to visit and some draw X marks in accordance with a decades-old tradition that if people wanted Laveau to grant them a wish, they had to draw an X on the tomb, turn around three times, knock on the tomb, yell out their wish, and if it was granted, come back, circle their X, and leave Laveau an offering.\n\nThe tomb in Saint Louis Cemetery No. 1 was vandalized by an unknown person on December 17, 2013, by being painted over with pink latex paint. The paint was removed because the structure is made of old plaster and the latex paint would seal in moisture that would destroy the plaster. Some historical preservation experts criticized the decision by officials of the Archdiocese of New Orleans, who maintain the cemetery, for their decision to use pressure washing rather than paint stripper to remove it.\n\nAs of March 1, 2015, there is no longer public access to St. Louis Cemetery No. 1. Entry with a tour guide is required because of continued vandalism and destruction of tombs. This change was made by the Archdiocese of New Orleans to protect the tombs of the Laveau family as well as those of the many other dead interred there.\n\nAlthough some references to Marie Laveau in popular culture refer to her as a \"witch,\" she is properly described as a 'Voodoo queen'.\n\nBecause of her prominence within the history of Voodoo in New Orleans, Laveau has inspired a number of artistic renditions.\n\nIn visual art, the African American artist Renee Stout often uses Laveau as a visual motif.\n\nNumerous songs about Marie Laveau have been recorded, including \"Marie La Veau\" by Papa Celestin, \"Marie Laveau\" written by Shel Silverstein and Baxter Taylor and recorded by Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show (1972), and Bobby Bare (1974), \"The Witch Queen of New Orleans\" (1971) by Redbone, \"Dixie Drug Store\" by Grant Lee Buffalo, \"X Marks the Spot (Marie Laveau)\" by Joe Sample, \"Marie Laveau\" by Dr. John, \"Marie Laveau\" (2013) by Tao Of Sound, \"Voodoo Queen Marie\" to the minstrel tune \"Colored Aristocracy\" by The Holy Modal Rounders, \"The Witch Queen of New Orleans\" by Total Toly, and \"The Widow Paris\" by The Get Up Kids. Most recently the Danish metal band Volbeat released an album with a song entitled \"Marie Laveau\" (\"Seal The Deal & Let's Boogie\", 2016). Marie Laveau is mentioned in the song \"I Will Play for Gumbo\" (1999) by Jimmy Buffett and “Clare” by The Fairground Attraction. Two of Laveau's nephews, banjoist Raymond Glapion and bassist Alcide \"Slow Drag\" Pavageau, became prominent New Orleans jazz musicians.\n\nLaveau has offered inspiration for a number of fictional characters as well.\n\nShe is the protagonist of such novels as Robert Tallant's \"The Voodoo Queen\" (1956), Francine Prose's eponymous \"Marie Laveau\" (1977), and Jewell Parker Rhodes' \"Voodoo Dreams: A Novel of Marie Laveau\" (1993). Laveau appears as a supporting character in the Night Huntress novels by Jeaniene Frost, as a powerful ghoul still living in New Orleans in the 21st century. She also appears as a background character in Barbara Hambly's Benjamin January mystery series, set in New Orleans. Marie Laveau appears in Neil Gaiman's novel \"American Gods\", under her married name, Marie Paris. Marie Laveau's tomb is the site of a secret, fictional underground Voodoo workshop in the Caster Chronicles novel \"Beautiful Chaos\" by Kami Garcia and Margaret Stohl. Laveau's grave site is the setting of a pivotal scene in Robert J. Randisi's short story, \"Cold As The Gun,\",\\ from \"Foreshadows: The Ghosts of Zero\". The mother of Hazel Levesque, one of the characters from Rick Riordan's \"The Heroes of Olympus\" book series, was known as \"Queen Marie,\" a famous fortune teller who lived in New Orleans. In Charlaine Harris' \"True Blood\" (Sookie Stackhouse novels) book series, the character Hadley is lured to her death at the site of Marie Laveau's tomb.\n\nA character named Marie Laveau, based loosely on the real Marie Laveau, appears in Marvel Comics. She first appeared in \"Dracula Lives\" #2 in 1973. She is depicted as a powerful sorceress and Voodoo priestess with great magical powers and knowledge of arcane lore, including the creation of a potion made from vampire's blood that keeps her eternally youthful and beautiful. A character named Marie Laveau also appears in the Italian comic book \"Zagor\".\n\nIn TV, a heavily fictionalized Marie Laveau (portrayed by Angela Bassett) appears as a character in \"\" and . She also appears in the Canadian television series \"Lost Girl\" in episode 11 of season 4 and in the series Young Sheldon in episode 6 of season 1.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7093485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7093485", "title": "Metamorpheus", "text": "Metamorpheus\n\nMetamorpheus is Steve Hackett's 17th studio album. This classical album is the successor to \"A Midsummer Nights Dream\". \"Metamorpheus\" is an expression on Orpheus and his passage through the Underworld. The use of the nylon guitar and the \"Underground Orchestra\" naturally gives a link between the small and big moments of this album.\n\nThe cover of the album was created by Kim Poor, the picture on the sleeves of the previous album \"To Watch The Storms\" also features the song \"Rebecca\".\n\nThis album makes use of themes first used by Hackett in short pieces (only released as free MP3 downloads) for the soundtrack of the 2001 Showtime documentary \"Outwitting Hitler\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4243032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4243032", "title": "Michel Déon", "text": "Michel Déon\n\nMichel Déon (; 4 August 1919 – 28 December 2016) was a French novelist and literary columnist. He published over 50 works and was the recipient of numerous awards, including the Prix Interallié for his 1970 novel, \"Les Poneys sauvages\" (The Wild Ponies). Déon's 1973 novel \"Un taxi mauve\" received the Grand Prix du roman de l'Académie française. His novels have been translated into numerous languages.\n\nHe is considered to have been one of the most innovative French writers of the 20th century. In 1978, Déon was elected to the Académie française.\n\nMichel Déon was born in Paris on 4 August 1919, the only child of a civil servant and his wife. His father took his family along on the many foreign trips his work required, stimulating his son's interest in travel and cross-cultural relations that came to define his writings. Déon's father died in 1933 while on assignment in Monaco serving as advisor to Prince Louis. He and his mother returned to Paris, where Déon attended the Lycée Janson-de-Sailly. Although he was passionate about literature and journalism, Déon acquiesced to familial pressure and studied law in college.\n\nBorn a year after the end of World War I, he adopted the pacifism popular with many others of his generation. When drafted into the French military, he was assigned to the 152nd regiment under General de Lattre and served alongside Charles Maurras, a member of the Académie française since 1938. He joined Maurras in championing Action Française, a counter-revolutionary, monarchist political movement. Maurras instilled in him an intense distaste for both democracy and fascism. Déon says that freedom is his highest value, both in life and for the individual.\n\nAt the end of World War II, Déon returned to Paris to dedicate himself to a literary career. He first worked for a series of small-press French newspapers to support himself while drafting a novel and short stories. His first collection of short stories, \"Adieux à Sheila\", was published in 1944.\n\nShortly after his first publication, Déon received a Rockefeller Foundation grant that supported his travels through the United States. While there, Déon worked alongside William Faulkner and Saul Bellow. Their collaboration proved beneficial for all three of them and Déon assisted Bellow in translating his works into French.\n\nAlongside such contemporary French writers as Jacques Laurent, Antoine Blondin, and Roger Nimier, Déon staunchly opposed the existentialism of Sartre and other prominent cultural figures. Déon and his fellow authors became known as Les Hussards, named after Nimier's novel \"The Blue Hussar\". They were recognized for their innovative unconventionality, sympathy for the bizarre underdog, and pervasive refusal to adopt fashionable themes and tone.\n\nIn 1944, Roland Laudenbach and Jean Cocteau founded Éditions de la Table ronde (Round Table Publishing), a publishing enterprise that published works by many members of \"Les Hussards\". Table ronde published several of Déon's novels, including \"Les Gens de la Nuit\", \"La Carotte et le Bâton\", and \"Tout L'Amour du Monde II\". After Table ronde became a subsidiary of Éditions Gallimard around 1970, Gallimard published more than twenty of Déon's works.\n\nIn 1970, Déon's novel \"Les Poneys sauvages\" (\"The Wild Ponies\") was awarded the Prix Interallié, given annually since 1930 to the best novel written by a journalist.\n\nDéon wrote his critical masterpiece \"Un taxi mauve\" (\"A Purple Taxi\") in 1973. It became an immediate literary sensation and won the Grand Prix du Roman de l'Académie française. \"Un Taxi Mauve\" was made into a film in 1977. The following year, 1978, Déon was elected to the Académie française.\n\nIn addition to his numerous individual works and awards, Déon has collaborated with several public figures. In 1953, he assisted Coco Chanel in writing her autobiography, though she refused to have it published. Déon destroyed the only existing copy for the sake of his friendship with her. In 1966, Déon worked with Salvador Dalí on the artist's memoirs, \"Diary of a Genius\".\n\nMuch of Déon's work engages his experience via travel to such locations as Switzerland, Italy, Canada, and Portugal. During the 1940s, he explored the United States by Greyhound Bus.\n\nDéon is an affiliate member of the Portuguese Academy of Science and Letters. He is a doctor \"honoris causa\" at the universities of Athens and Ireland. He is also an honorary citizen of Nice, Aix-en-Provence, and Antibes. His works have been translated into many languages.\n\nDéon and his wife Chantal raised their two children, Alice and Alexandre, on the small Greek island of Spetsai. When the children reached school age in 1968, France was in a state of upheaval. The Déon family settled in Ireland. For over forty years, Déon and his family have made Ireland their home, raising Chantal's fifty horses. There Déon wrote on his Louis XVI desk. He visited France frequently.\n\nDéon died from a pulmonary embolism at the age of 97 on 28 December 2016 in Galway, Ireland.\n\n\"Les Poneys Sauvages\" (1970) is a story of murder, intrigue, and revenge. It begins in 1937, as George, Barry, Cyril, and Horace, students of varying backgrounds, complete their educations at the University of Cambridge. As the decade ends, the group becomes tangled in the Second World War. Those who survive the war take the reader on a journey that spans three decades and covers all of Europe, from Italy to Poland and back to Paris. As the friends age, they learn that the past is not forgotten quickly. In 1981, it was the basis of a six-part television series that starred Hélène Vincent.\n\n\"Un Taxi Mauve\" (1973) follows a group of troubled European and American expatriates who have settled in rural Ireland – each for his own reason. Living in a self-punishing exile, their interactions create a tangle of love and deceit. An English-language film based on the novel, released in 1977 and called \"The Purple Taxi\" in English, starred Fred Astaire, Charlotte Rampling, and Philippe Noiret.\n\nIn \"The Foundling Boy\" (\"Le Jeune Homme Vert\") (1975), the infant Jean, born in 1919, is adopted by a rural couple who help maintain a wealthy family's estate. The novel follows his adventures and those of several others, notably the owner of the estate on which he is raised, until he joins the French army at the start of World War II. Diane Johnson compared Jean to Fielding's \"Tom Jones\", noting how \"his picaresque adventures unfold in cheerful profusion, in and out of foreign countries and strange beds\". She also recommended the novel for its depiction of the European political climate in the years between the world wars. A sequel, \"The Foundling's War\" (\"Les Vingt Ans du Jeune Homme Vert\"), appeared in 1977.\n\nIn \"Un Souvenir\" (1990), Edward has just passed his sixtieth year and is beginning to consider himself an old man. He finds an old photo from 1936. It shows him hugging a beautiful girl named Sheila, an obscure yet unforgettable woman he met in England during the war. Despite his age, he returns to England to find her and come to terms with the regret and guilt at having lost her.\n\nIn \"Pages Grecques\" (1993), Déon explores the multi-layered mythical and actual history of Greek culture. Employing the gods, muses, and legendary Greek figures, alongside historical events and characters, Déon weaves Greece's dual histories together to create a beautiful and inspiring picture of the culture.\n\n\"The Great and the Good\" (\"La Cour Des Grands\", 1996) follows the life of Arthur Morgan, the son of an impoverished French widow. He is offered a first class boat ticket to the United States in 1950 and there experiences all the classic elements of the American dream, graduating college and moving to New York City where he becomes a successful stockbroker. When he returns to France in the face of family tragedy, he is forced to reconcile his American life with a past life and is shocked to discover what has become of the friends of his youth.\n\n\"Horseman, Pass By!\" (\"Cavalier, passe ton chemin!\", 2005) offers a social history of the Irish people that combines fact and fiction. Exploring the country's extraordinary folklore and cultural legends, Déon examines the nation's collective identity.\n\nAn English translation of \"Un déjeuner de soleil\" appeared in 1983 (UK) and 1989 (US) as \"Where Are You Dying Tonight?\". \"Le Jeune Homme vert\" appeared as \"The Foundling Boy\" in 2013, and the publisher, Gallic Books, published a translation of the sequel, \"Les Vingt Ans du Jeune Homme Vert\" as \"The Foundling's War\" in 2014., \"La Cours des grandes\" as \"The Great and the Good\" in 2017.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2746215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2746215", "title": "Minjung theology", "text": "Minjung theology\n\nMinjung theology () emerged in the 1970s from the experience of South Korean Christians in the struggle for social justice. It is a people's theology, and, according to its authors, \"a development of the political hermeneutics of the Gospel in terms of the Korean reality.\"\n\nMinjung theology began in South Korea in the 1970s with figures such as Ahn Byung-mu, often considered the \"father of minjung theology,\" Suh Nam-dong, David Kwang-sun Suh, and Kim Yong-bock. \"Minjung\", which means the \"people\" in the communist sense of the proletariat, is made up of people who are ostracized by the larger community.\n\nIt is part of a wider Asian theological ferment, but it was not designed for export. It \"is firmly rooted in a particular situation, and growing out of the struggles of Christians who embrace their own history as well as the universal message of the Bible.\"\n\nAs South Korea has grown to be more a prosperous nation, later generations of minjung theologians have needed to reevaluate who are the poor and oppressed minjung of Korea. As such, a number of minjung theologians have focused on questions of reunification with North Korea, identifying the minjung as all those oppressed in both Koreas.\n\n"}
{"id": "3069544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3069544", "title": "Modern gold dinar", "text": "Modern gold dinar\n\nThe modern Islamic gold dinar (sometimes referred as Islamic dinar or Gold dinar) is a projected bullion gold coin, so far not issued as official currency by any national state. It aims to revive the historical gold dinar which was a leading coin of early Islam. They might consist of minted gold coins, dinar, and silver coins, dirham.\n\nAccording to Islamic law, the Islamic dinar is a coin of pure gold weighing 72 grains of average barley. Modern determinations of weight range from 4.44 grams to 4.5 grams of gold, with the silver Dir-ham being created to the weight ratio of 7:10, yielding coins from 3.11 to 3.15 grams of pure silver.\n\nUmar Ibn al-Khattab established the known standard relationship between them based on their weights: 7 dinars must be equivalent (in weight) to 10 dirhams.\n\nPer the historical law stated above, one dinar is 4.44 grams of pure gold, while one dirham is 3.11 grams of pure silver. A smaller denomination, daniq, weighs one sixth as much. The value of each coin is according to their weight and the market value of the two metals. The coins may be minted at fraction or multiples of their weights and valued accordingly.\n\nThe currency was introduced in Indonesia in the year 2000 by the Islamic Mint Nusantara (IMN).\n\nIn 2002, the prime minister of Malaysia proposed a gold dinar standard for use in the Islamic world.\n\nKelantan was the first state in the country to introduce the dinar in 2006, which was locally minted. In 2010, it issued new coins, including the dirham, minted in the United Arab Emirates by the World Islamic Mint. On 25 August 2013 Kelantanese government collected and distributed zakat from people in Kelantanese dinars and dirhams in a public ceremony officiated by Chief Minister Dato Nik Aziz Nik Mat.\n\nThe state of Perak followed suit, minting its own dinar and dirham, which was launched in 2011.\nThe leader of the UN-designated terrorist group Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, announced in November 2014 that the Caliphate intended to mint its own gold, silver and copper coins in order to free the Muslims from the financial order that has \"enslaved and impoverished\" them. The currency would be based on the dinar coins minted by the Caliphate of Uthman ibn Affan and include seven coins: two gold, three silver and two copper, ranging in value from 7¢ to $694, their values based on the intrinsic value of the metals. The gold dinar is weighted at 4.25 grams and is made of 21 karat gold.\n\nDespite a propaganda push for the currency, adoption appeared to have been minimal and its internal economy is effectively dollarized, even with regards to its own fines.\n\nAbdalqadir as-Sufi, founder of the Murabitun World Movement, was once a strong proponent of the idea for the gold dinar revival movement, but in February 2014 he completely distanced himself from it, saying, \"So, I now dis-associate myself from all activity involving the Islamic gold dinar and silver dirham\". Trinidadian scholar Imran Nazar Hosein has also been promoting the revival of Dinar usage, but has linked its use to Islamic eschatology.\n\nMost of the coins are issued privately and are not legal tender. In Malaysia, the state government of Kelantan allows their use in transactions while it is illegal according to federal law.\n\nCommon uses of the gold dinar include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11101910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11101910", "title": "Mount Longhu", "text": "Mount Longhu\n\nMount Longhu (, Gan: Lung-fu San), is located in Jiangxi, China. It is famous for being one of the birthplaces of Taoism, with many Taoist temples built upon the mountainside. It is particularly important to the Zhengyi Dao as it the Shangqing Temple and the Mansion of the Taoist Master are located here. It is known as one of the Four Sacred Mountains of Taoism.\n\nTwo of them are the temples of Immortal City (仙岩) and Zheng Yi (正一), all founded by Zhang Daoling (张道陵), the Han Dynasty founder of the religion. There are more Taoist temples in nearby Shangqing Town (上清). One of the temples in Shangqing is mentioned in the beginning of the famous Chinese novel (水滸傳) \"Outlaws of the Marsh\".\n\nMount Longhu also has cultural significance has a historical burial site of the Guyue people, who placed their dead in hanging coffins on the mountains cliff faces.\n\nIn August 2010 UNESCO inscribed Mount Longhu on the World Heritage List as part of the complex of six sites that make up the China Danxia.\n\nMount Longhu can be reached from the nearby city of Yingtan.\n"}
{"id": "57468891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57468891", "title": "Pigi Athinas", "text": "Pigi Athinas\n\nThe Pigi Athinas (Greek Πηγή Αθηνάς, Source of Athena) is an archaeological site at the eastern foot of Mount Olympus (Lower Olympus), near the village of Platamonas.\n\nThere is evidence of the presence of humans since the first half of the 7th millennium BC (Early Neolithic period). During the Middle Neolithic period, around 5600 to 4500 BC, the area was inhabited continuously. During the Bronze Age, a necropolis with burial mounds (tumuli) was established. Another cemetery dates back to Roman times.\n\nThe excavation work began in 2001 and was initially carried out until 2003. In April 2008, the excavations were resumed and ended in early 2011. The excavation site is located under the route of the highway Patras - Athens - Thessaloniki - Evzonoi (Πατρών - Aθηνών - Θεσσαλονίκης - Ευζώνων, short ΠΑΘΕ), the excavations were funded by the construction company.\nThe finds range from the Neolithic to the post-Byzantine period (after 1453 AD).\n\nThe burial mounds date from the period 1620-1500 BC; the tumuli were circular or elliptical and consisted of large pebbles, probably from the nearby river. All hills have a central tomb in the center, oriented in west-east direction. Except for one grave mound, under which only one single deceased was buried, around the central graves further graves were created. The middle grave is larger and deeper than the others. The pits were edged with stone and have a depth of up to 1.30 meters. Archaeologists found the skeletons of 17 people who died at the age of 20 to 50 years; as grave goods mainly pottery were found.\n\n16 people were buried here, skeletons of 12 adults and four children were discovered. The cemetery is located in the immediate vicinity of a Roman farmhouse and was created in the first half of the 4th century AD. The deceased were buried in simple pits. The graves were not looted and contained many grave goods.\n\nDating from the time of the Ottoman rule, a water pipe was found near by the necropolis.\n\nThe settlement, belonging to the neolithic necropolis, has not yet been located.\n\nThe archaeological site is today largely under the route of the highway Patras, Athens, Thessaloniki, Evzonoi.\n\n"}
{"id": "64695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=64695", "title": "Professor Frink", "text": "Professor Frink\n\nProfessor John I.Q. Nerdelbaum Frink Jr., or simply Professor Frink, is a recurring character in the animated television series \"The Simpsons\". He is voiced by Hank Azaria, and first appeared in the 1991 episode \"Old Money\". Frink is Springfield's nerdy scientist and professor and is extremely intelligent, though somewhat mad and socially inept. Frink often tries to use his bizarre inventions to aid the town in its crises but they usually only make things worse. His manner of speech, including the impulsive shouting of nonsensical words, has become his trademark.\n\nFrink was originally depicted as an evil scientist in \"Old Money\", since he was trying to secure funding for a death ray. When Azaria ad-libbed a voice for the character, he did an impression of Jerry Lewis's Julius Kelp character from \"The Nutty Professor\". The staff liked the voice and therefore changed Frink to be more like Julius Kelp, both in appearance and personalityhe became more nerdy, and went from evil to just mad. Lewis later guest-starred on the show as Frink's father in the 2003 episode \"Treehouse of Horror XIV\".\n\nThe professor has received acclaim from critics, particularly for his bizarre inventions such as the hamburger earmuffs, and he has appeared on many reviewers' listings of their favorite supporting characters from \"The Simpsons\". Frink has been featured in other media relating to the show, such as comics, video games, and a simulator ride at Universal Studios Florida. The character's popularity has led to him giving the name to the computer programming language Frink.\n\nJohn Frink is generally depicted as Springfield's stereotypical nerdy, mad, and socially inept scientist, inventor, and mathematician. He wears thick glasses, a white lab coat, pink pants, and has buckteeth. Frink is a college professor at Springfield Heights Institute of Technology and runs his own astronomical observatory. He has an IQ of 197it was 199 before he sustained a concussion during the collapse of Springfield's brief intellectual juntaand is a member of the Springfield chapter of Mensa. Frink is generally very polite and friendly. He has a trademark mannerism of using Jerry Lewis-style gibberish when excited, such as \"HOYVIN-GLAVIN!\" and \"FLAVIN\" and impulsively shouting other words that have no relevance to the situation at hand. He also occasionally refers to the importance of remembering to \"carry the one\" in various mathematical calculations. When he rambles he often speaks incoherently in run-on sentences without pauses. Frink also has a tendency to over-complicate simple matters and use or invent scientific terminology while expressing various concepts, e.g. \"Father and I got along like positrons and antineutrinos!\" or \"microcalifragilistics\".\n\nFrink often tries to use his mad and bizarre inventions to aid the town in its crises, but they usually do not work or only make things worse. Most of his inventions never function properly or are of no real use. He is the inventor of, among other things, a frog exaggerator (which grossly misrepresents the size of amphibians), automatic tapping shoes for tap dancing, the sarcasm detector, hamburger earmuffs, the 8-month-after pill, and a drilling machine that can cut through anything. Some of Frink's unsuccessful inventions include his small remote-controlled plane that carries babies as passengers (it crashed), and a burglar-proof house that sprouts legs and runs away from potential danger (the legs of which collapsed causing the house to crash to the ground and catch fire). As a scientist, Frink has discovered and cured \"Frink's Disease\" and discovered the element \"Frinkonium\". He has also mastered astrology to the point where he can use it to accurately predict the future, and has been shown to be capable of time travel.\n\nThe professor has a son who is seen in \"Brother, Can You Spare Two Dimes?\" during a convention for infant and toddler products as a pilot of a remote-controlled plane (he flies out the window of the building while in the plane and crashes), and in \"I, (Annoyed Grunt)-Bot\" at a robot battle (operating the robot). On the show, Frink has made mentions of a wife, but there have also been jokes about him having had little contact with women in his life.\n\nFrink often appears in the \"Treehouse of Horror\" Halloween episodes of \"The Simpsons\", which are not accepted as canon and always take place outside the normal continuity of the show. Frink's bizarre inventions and understanding of advanced physics usually fit well into these supernatural plotlines. In \"Treehouse of Horror VIII\", Bart enters Frink's matter teleporter and – echoing the film \"The Fly\" – it results in an accidental mix between Bart's genes and the genes of a housefly that was also present in the transporter at the same time. In \"Treehouse of Horror XIV\", it is revealed that Frink had a father who was killed by a shark, whom he brings back to life in the episode by piecing together his body parts. Unfortunately, the man decides to steal body parts to improve himself after he is revived. In the latter episode, Frink is awarded a Nobel Prize.\n\nFrink first appeared in the season two episode \"Old Money\" that aired on . In that episode, Grampa Simpson inherits $106,000 from his girlfriend when she dies. He eventually decides to spend it on people who are in need of money and holds interviews. In one of these interviews, Frink introduces Grampa to his latest invention, the Death Ray, claiming that \"it is just a prototype. With proper funding I'm confident this little baby could destroy an area the size of New York City!\" Grampa responds with \"But I want to help people, not kill 'em!\", to which Frink replies \"Oh. Well, to be honest, the ray only has evil applications. You know my wife will be happy, she's hated this whole Death Ray thing from day one.\"\n\nIn the original script, Frink appeared more evil. However, when cast member Hank Azaria ad-libbed a voice for Frink, he did an impression of Jerry Lewis's character Julius Kelp from the 1963 film \"The Nutty Professor\", and the writing staff started making Frink more of a parody of that character. Julius Kelp is a nerdy, mad professor, albeit not evil, and is often unsuccessful with his experiments, so Frink became more like that as the show progressed. \"The Simpsons\" creator Matt Groening told \"TV Guide\" that \"He was just written as a mad scientist character until Hank did the voice, and suddenly he became this nutty professor persona. What I love about Hank is that, you give him a single lineand most of these characters have very few linesand he just brings it to life. Every time.\" Frink was originally animated without his buckteeth; they were added later on to make him look even more like Lewis's character. He was named after television writer John Frink, who was later hired on \"The Simpsons\". Frink's nonsensical utterances are written in the scripts as \"Frink noise\".\n\nAzaria has voiced Frink ever since the first appearance of the professor. Of the many characters that Azaria voices, Frink is his favorite because he was a fan of Lewis in his younger years and he enjoys imitating the voice of the nutty professor. He has said that \"once you start talking like [Julius Kelp] it's very hard to stop. On each take, I'll make it sillier, I always have. I'll add more and more stupid noises and sounds to it. If they let me keep going, it gets ridiculous.\"\n\nAs a homage to Lewis, Azaria conceived the idea of the \"Treehouse of \" segment in which Frink revives his dead father, with Lewis guest starring as the father. In a review of that episode, which aired around Halloween in 2003, Robert Bianco of \"USA Today\" wrote that it is hard to tell Frink and his father's voices apart: \"Azaria voices Frink with such a spot-on Lewis imitation that it's sometimes hard to tell which one of the two nutty professors is talking.\" In addition, \"The Knoxville News-Sentinel\"s Terry Morrow commented that \"to hear Lewis doing Azaria doing Lewis is a mind-bending gut buster, the kind of pay-off that die-hard \"Simpsons\" fans live for.\"\n\nFrink is a popular character on \"The Simpsons\" and he has received acclaim from critics. Mark Hughes Cobb of \"The Tuscaloosa News\" named him his favorite secondary character from the show. \"Fort Worth Star-Telegram\"s Robert Philpot called the professor one of the five best supporting characters on \"The Simpsons\", writing that \"Springfield's mad scientist is a triumph of style over substance, with Hank Azaria giving him a ripoff Jerry Lewis voice that reminds you why we once thought Lewis was funny.\" On their list of the top twenty-five peripheral \"Simpsons\" characters, IGN's Eric Goldman, Dan Iverson, and Brian Zoromski listed Frink at number fourteen, commenting that he fits nicely into the \"Simpsons\" universe \"as the town's brilliant mad scientist.\" They highlighted a scene from the episode \"The PTA Disbands\", in which Frink becomes a kindergarten substitute teacher and keeps one of the children's toys to himself because the children \"wouldn't enjoy it on as many levels\" as he did. Nick Griffiths of \"Radio Times\" named Frink one of the best characters of the show, stating that he has \"always loved Professor Frink\", particularly because of his appearance, gibberish talking, and overuse of the word \"the\", and because of his inventions such as the matter teleporter that turns Bart into half-human half-fly. \"The Sydney Morning Herald\"s David Hollingworth profiled Frink in his list of \"TV's great tech figures\", writing that apart from being smart, the professor is best known for his \"rather idiosyncratic speech patterns — hmmguyvin-whey-hey.\" Joe Rhodes of \"TV Guide\" listed the following as the professor's most memorable line: \"Sorry I'm late. There was trouble at the lab with the running and the exploding and the crying when the monkeys stole the glasses off my head.\"\n\nSeveral critics have commented on Frink's inventions. Patrick Goss of MSN's \"Tech & Gadgets\" wrote that \"When it comes to gizmos, Frink is the king\", and listed the Death Ray as one of the greatest gadgets featured in \"The Simpsons\". Although he added that it \"was not one of [Frink's] most successful\", since it never received the funding it needed from Grampa. On the same list, Goss also featured Frink's automatic phone dialer, intra bovine ice-cream maker (an invention that is inserted into a cow and uses the four stomachs to mix the various ingredients), and hamburger earmuffs. In a profile about Frink, the publication UGO Networks wrote: \"Where would the town be without your Jerry Lewis/Julius Kelp-inspired voice and antics? A lot safer most likely. Professor John Frink's inventions range from distracting to disruptive. Who can forget his hamburger earmuffs? Or his teleportation device, responsible for switching Bart Simpson's head with that of a housefly?\" Howard Waldrop and Lawrence Person of \"Locus\" listed the scene in \"The Simpsons Movie\" that features Frink's drilling machine invention as one of the highlights of the film.\n\nFrink has appeared in various merchandise related to \"The Simpsons\", including issues of \"Simpsons Comics\", the simulator ride \"The Simpsons Ride\" at Universal Studios Florida, and video games such as \"The Simpsons Wrestling\", \"\", \"\", and \"The Simpsons Game\". He has also been turned into a Halloween-inspired action figure that was packaged with Kids Meals at Burger King in October and . In addition, Frink was featured on the cover of the issue of \"TV Guide\".\n\nThe professor has also affected real-life science. Frink, a computer programming language, was named after him. It is, according to creator of the language, \"designed to make physical calculations simple, to help ensure that answers come out right, and to make a tool that's really useful in the real world. It tracks units of measure (feet, meters, kilograms, watts, etc.) through all calculations, allowing you to mix units of measure transparently, and helps you easily verify that your answers make sense.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38862950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38862950", "title": "Rajakapotasana", "text": "Rajakapotasana\n\nRaja Kapotasana (; IAST: \"Rāja Kapotāsana\") or King Pigeon Pose is an asana.\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"raja\" (राज) meaning \"king\", \"kapota\" (कपोत) meaning \"pigeon\" and \"asana\" (आसन) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\".\n\nVariations include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4033616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4033616", "title": "Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam", "text": "Ranganathaswamy Temple, Srirangam\n\nG\nThe Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple or Thiruvarangam is a Hindu temple dedicated to Ranganatha, a reclining form of the Hindu deity Vishnu, located in Srirangam, Tiruchirapalli, Tamil Nadu, India. Constructed in the Dravidian Architecture, this temple is glorified by Alvars in their Divya Prabhanda and is number one or First among the 108 Divya Desams dedicated to Vishnu.\n\nIt is one of the most illustrious \"Vaishnava\" temples in South India rich in legend and history. The temple has played an important role in Vaishnavism history starting with the 11th-century career of Ramanuja and his predecessors Nathamuni and Yamunacharya in Srirangam. Its location, on an island between the Kollidam and Kaveri rivers, has rendered it vulnerable to flooding as well as the rampaging of invading armies which repeatedly commandeered the site for military encampment. The temple was looted and destroyed by the Delhi Sultanate armies in a broad plunder raid on various cities of the Pandyan kingdom in early 14th century. The temple was rebuilt in late 14th century, the site fortified and expanded with many more gopurams in the 16th and 17th centuries. It was one of the hubs of early Bhakti movement with a devotional singing and dance tradition, but this tradition stopped during the 14th century and was revived in a limited way much later. \n\nThe temple occupies an area of with 50 shrines, 21 towers, 39 pavilions and many water tanks integrated into the complex making it the world's largest functioning Hindu temple. The temple town is a significant archaeological and epigraphical site, providing a historic window into the early and mid medieval South Indian society and culture. Numerous inscriptions suggest that this Hindu temple served not only as a spiritual center, but also a major economic and charitable institution that operated education and hospital facilities, ran a free kitchen, and financed regional infrastructure projects from the gifts and donations it received. \n\nThe Srirangam temple is the largest temple compound in India and one of the largest religious complexes in the world. Some of these structures have been renovated, expanded and rebuilt over the centuries as a living temple. The latest addition is the outer tower that is tall, completed in 1987. Srirangam temple is often listed as one of the largest functioning Hindu temple in the world, the still larger Angkor Wat being the largest existing temple. The temple is an active Hindu house of worship and follows Thenkalai tradition of Sri Vaishnavism. The annual 21-day festival conducted during the Tamil month of \"Margazhi\" (December–January) attracts 1 million visitors. The temple complex has been nominated as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and is in UNESCO's tentative list.\n\nThe Ranganathaswamy Temple at Srirangam, also known as Thiruvaranga Tirupati, is located about north of the city of Tiruchirappalli, about southwest of Chennai. The city is connected daily to other major cities by the network of Indian Railways, Tamil Nadu bus services and the Highway 38. The site is near the Tiruchirappalli International Airport (IATA: TRZ).\nThe temple site is on a large island bounded by the Kaveri River and Kollidam River. It is vast and planned as a temple town with \"Sapta-Prakaram\" design where the sanctum, gopuram, services and living area are co-located in seven concentric enclosures. Rampart walls were added after medieval centuries that saw its invasion and destruction. The temple monuments are located inside the inner five enclosures of the complex, surrounded by living area and infrastructure in outer two enclosures. Numerous gopurams connect the \"Sapta-Prakaram\" enclosures allowing the pilgrims and visitors to reach the sanctum from many directions. The site includes two major temples, one for Vishnu as Ranganatha, and other to Shiva as Jambukeshvara. The island has some cave temples, older than both.\n\nA temple at Srirangam is mentioned in Tamil literature of the Sangam era (1st to the 4th century AD), including the epic \"Silapadikaram\" (book 11, lines 35–40):\n\nBeyond the ancient textual history, archaeological evidence such as inscriptions refer to this temple, but these stone inscriptions are from late 1st millennium AD. The inscriptions in the temple belong to the Chola, Pandya, Hoysala and Vijayanagar dynasties who ruled over the region. These inscriptions range in date between the 9th and 16th centuries.\n\nDuring the period of invasion and plunder by the Ala ud Din Khilji's Muslim general Malik Kafur and his Delhi Sultanate forces in 1311, the Arabic texts of the period state that he raided a \"golden temple\" on river \"Kanobari\" (Kaveri), destroyed the temple and took the plunder with the golden idol of the deity to Delhi. According to Steven P. Hopkins, this is believed to be the Ranganathaswamy Temple.\n\nThe Tamil texts that followed offer various inconsistent legends on how the temple regained the Vishnu idol. According to one found in \"Koil Oluku\", a young girl had vowed to fast till she had seen the idol. She followed the Muslim army as it returned with the loot back to Delhi. There she sneaked into the palace and saw that the Sultan's daughter had fallen in love with the image. The young girl returned to Srirangam and told the priests about what she had seen in Delhi. The priests went with musicians to Delhi, found the idol in capriciously playful possession of the Sultan's daughter, day and night. They sang and danced before the Sultan to return the idol, and he gave it back which upset his daughter. To console the daughter, the Sultan sent in his army again to bring it back, but this time they were not successful. According to other versions, the Muslim daughter followed the idol from Delhi to Srirangam on a horse, symbolizing that love brought back the icon after war had taken it away.\nBeyond these legends, there was a more severe second invasion of South India including Srirangam in 1323 AD. The sanctum's Vishnu image with its jewelry was pre-emptively removed by the Hindus before the Delhi Sultanate troops reached Srirangam by a group led by the Vaishnavite Acharaya Pillai Lokacharyar to Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu. The Goddess Ranganayaki (Lakshmi) was also taken away to another location by a separate group. The temple was defended and according to the Tamil tradition some 13,000 Sri Vaishnavas devotees of Srirangam, died in the fierce battle.\n\nAfter nearly six decades when Madurai Sultanate ruled after the Chola rulers were ousted after the repeated Delhi Sultanate's invasions, the Vijayanagara Empire ousted the Madurai Sultanate in 1378. Thereafter, the Vishnu and Lakshmi images were brought back to Srirangam by Swami Vedanta Desika. Before then, for decades the deity and the priestly wardens wandered and secretly carried the temple's idol through villages of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. They finally went to the hills of Tirumala Tirupati, where they remained until the temple was rebuilt in 1371. The idol was consecrated again according to the legends. This time, in memory of the first Sultan's daughter which tradition calls \"Thulukha Nachiyar\", a niche in the temple was built for her. The niche shows her as a girl sitting on a horse that carried her to Delhi. Her legend is still remembered. During contemporary processions when the idol is taken out of sanctum and then returned to it after its journey, \"Thulukha Nachiyar\" is dressed in Muslim garments and food offerings are made to her in the form of butter and \"chappathis\" (wheat bread).\n\nThereafter, under Vijayanagara Empire, the temple site saw over 200 years of stability, repairs, first round of fortifications, and addition of mandapas. The Vishnu and Lakshmi images were reinstalled and the site became an Hindu temple again in 1371 CE under Kumara Kampana, a Vijayanagara commander and the son of Bukka I. In the last decade of the 14th century, a pillared antechamber was gifted by the Vijayanagara rulers. In the 15th century, they coated the apsidal roofs with solid gold sheets, followed by financing the addition of a series of new shrines, mandapas and gopuras to the temple, according to George Michell.\n\nAfter the destruction of the Vijayanagara in late 16th century, geo-political instability returned. The site became the focus of bitter wars between the Hindu Nayakas and the Muslim Mughals in the 17th century. The Nayakas fortified the temple town and the seven \"prakaras\". It was taken over by Muslim Nawabs of Arcot as a lucrative source of revenues, and thereafter attracted a contest between the French and British military powers. Srirangam temple site and the neighboring city of Tiruchirappalli (Trichy) became an intense center of Christian and Muslim missionary activity during the 18th and 19th centuries. With the establishment of the Madras Presidency within the British Empire, geo-political stability returned and the Ranganathaswamy Temple site attracted interest in archeological and historical studies.\n\nThe epigraphical evidence suggests that these Hindu dynasties — Cholas, Pandiyas, Hoysalas, Nayaks, Vijayanagar – assisted with rebuilding, renovation and supported the traditional customs. Some mention substantial gifts to the temple. A Chola king, for example, presented the temple with a golden serpent couch. Some historians identify this king with Rajamahendra Chola. The temple has witnessed and played a key role in the early Sri Vaishnavism history, particularly the centuries that followed the major Hindu philosopher Ramanuja (1017–1137 AD), and his predecessors Nathamuni and Yamunacharya.. It witnessed the debate between the Dvaita (dualistic) and Advaita (nondualistic) sub-traditions within Vaishnavism. Centuries later, it was a key site in the debate and disagreements between the northern Tamil and southern Tamil traditions, also called as the Vadakalai and Thenkalai. The early rulers such as the Pallavas, Cholas and Pandiyas supported it as a hub of the Bhakti movement with a devotional singing and dance tradition, but this tradition stopped during the 14th century and was revived in a limited way much later.\n\nThe temple and its artwork are a subject of numerous different Tamil legends covered in regional Puranic texts. \"Sriranga Mahathmiyam\", for example, is one of the compilation of the temple mythology about its origins. According to it, Brahma was performing austerities during the \"samudra manthan\" (churning of cosmic ocean), and Srirangam Vimanam emerged as a result. It remained in Satyaloka for ages, was brought to Ayodhya by king Ikshvaku. After Rama, an Avatar of Vishnu had killed the evil demon Ravana, he gave it to King Vibhishana who wanted to be with Rama. When Vibhishana passed through Trichy en route to Sri Lanka where he had become the king, the Srirangam Vimanam would not move from the island. So he gave it to a local king called Dharma Varma if the king consecrated the Vimanam to face the south cardinal direction eternally, blessing him and Lanka. Hence it is that the deity (in a reclining posture) faces South, his body aligned to the east-west axis.\n\nAs per another legend, Sanaka, the four child sages, came for a \"darshana\" of Ranganatha in Srirangam. They were stopped by Jaya and Vijaya, the guardians of Vaikuntha. In spite of their pleadings, they were refused entry. In anger, all four of them cursed the guardians in one voice and left. The guardians approached Vishnu and told him about the curse. Ranganatha said that he would not be able to revert the curse and gave them two options: be born as demons opposing Vishnu in three births or good human beings in the following seven births. The guardians accepted being demons and are believed to have taken the form of Hiranyaksha & Hiranyakasipu, Ravana & Kumbakarna and Sisupala & Dantavakra. Vishnu took three avatars – Narasimha, Rama and Krishna respectively – to kill the demons in each one of those births.\n\nThe temple is enclosed by 7 concentric enclosures with courtyards (termed \"prakarams\" or \"mathil suvar\"). Each layer has walls and gopurams, which were built or fortified in and after the 16th century. These walls total or over six miles. The temple has 17 major \"gopurams\" (towers, 21 total), 39 pavilions, 50 shrines, 9 sacred water pools, \"Ayiram kaal mandapam\" (a hall of 1000 pillars) and several small water bodies inside.\n\nThe temple is aligned to the north-south and east-west axis, on an island surrounded by the Kaveri River. The river has long been considered sacred, and called the \"Daksina Ganga\" or the \"Ganges of the South\". The outer two \"prakarams\" (outer courtyard) are residential and markets with shops, restaurants and flower stalls. The five inner courtyards have shrines to Vishnu and his various avatars such as Rama and Krishna. Major shrines are additionally dedicated to goddess Lakshmi and many saints of Vaishnavism. In particular, these shrines celebrate and commemorate the Bhakti movement poet-saints called the Alvars, as well Hindu philosophers such as Ramanuja and Vedantadesika of Sri Vaishnavism tradition.\n\nDespite the construction of various mandapas and gopuras over a span of many centuries, the architecture of the Ranganathaswamy temple is one of the better illustrations of Hindu temple planometric geometry per \"agama\" design texts in the Tamil tradition. According to George Michell, a professor and art historian on Indian architecture, the regulating geometry and plan of Srirangam site takes on \"a ritual dimension since all the architectural components, especially the focal gopuras and the most important colonnades and mandapas, are arranged along the axes dictated by the cardinal directions\". This alignment integrates the routes that devotees follow as they journey unto the innermost sanctum.\n\nThe temple complex includes over 50 shrines. These are dedicated to Vishnu, Lakshmi as well as various Vaishnava scholars and poets. The shrines to Vishnu display him in his various avatars, as well as his iconography. For example, the Ranganathaswamy temple shrines and symbolism include those to Chakkarathazhwar, Narasimha, Rama, Hayagreeva and Gopala Krishna.\n\nThe Chakrathazhwar shrine is in east facing on the south side of Akalanka. The sanctum is approached through a Mukamandapa (six rows of pillars) built during the Cholas and a Mahamandapa with six rows of eight pillars built during the period of Vijayanagar Empire. There is a circumambulation passage around the sanctum. The image of Chakrathazhwar is sculpted with Narasimha on the rear side and can be viewed from the passage around the sanctum. The Venugopala shrine, one of the most elaborately carved, is in the south-west corner of the fourth enclosure of the temple was built by Chokkanatha Nayak, according to an inscription dated 1674.\n\nThe main shrine for Ranganatha is in the innermost courtyard. The sanctum has a golden \"vimanam\" (crown tower over the sanctum sanctorum). It is shaped like the Tamil \"omkara\" (om symbol), shows anthropomorphic Paravasudeva on its gable, has an etching of Ramanuja as well on it, and is plated with gold. Inside, a edifice shown Sri Ranganthar reclining on Adisesha, the coiled serpent. Adisesha has five hoods and is coiled into three and a half rounds. Vishnu's head rests on a small cylindrical pillow and his right palm which faces upwards rests next to his head. Neither Sridevi (goddess Lakshmi) nor Bhudevi (goddess Earth) are depicted near his feet, as is found in late medieval era paintings. The sanctum does not show Brahma coming out of or connected to his navel either. However, the procession images of Sridevi, Bhudevi and Alagiyamanavalan reside within the sanctum in different places to ease their \"darshana\" (viewing).\n\nThe sanctum can be entered through the south gateway, one the reclining Vishnu is facing. The doorway as one enters from the \"mukhamandapam\", also called the \"Gayatri mantapa\", is flanked by Jaya and Vijaya dvarapalas. The sanctum chamber is round, even though the vimana above is an oval projection. The circumambulation path (\"pradakshina-patha\") is set in a square, to journey clockwise. This \"garbha-griya\" is surrounded by a raised square \"Tiruvunnali\", encircling pillars and another inner square. As the visitor completes the circumambulation around the resting Vishnu, one sees four additional images. On the western wall inside the core sanctum is Vighnesvara (son of Shiva and Parvati, Ganesha, Shaivism), on the northwestern corner is Yoga-Ananta (Vishnu seated in yoga asana on Sesha, Vaishnavism), on the northeastern side is Yoga-Narasimha (Narasimha seated in yoga asana, Vaishnavism), and on the eastern wall is Durga (an aspect of Parvati, Shaktism).\nThe exterior of the \"vimana\" and attached \"mandap\" (hall) have intricately carved pilasters with fluted shafts, double capitals, and pendant lotus brackets. Sculptures are placed in the niches of three sides of the sanctuary walls; maidens enhance the walls in between. The elevation is punctuated with a secondary set of pilasters that support shallow eaves at different levels to cap larger and smaller recesses. The sanctuary is crowned in the traditional fashion with a hemispherical roof. The double-curved eaves of the entrance porch on the east side are concealed in a later columned hall. Dhanvantari, a great physician of ancient India is considered to be an avatar of Vishnu – there is a separate shrine of Dhanvantari within the temple.\n\nRanganayaki (Lakshmi) shrine is in the second precinct of the temple. During the festival processions, Ranganayaki does not visit Ranganatha, but it is he who visits her. Ranganathar visiting Ranganayaki and being with her is called as 'Saerthi' during 'Panguni Uthiram'. There are three images of Ranganayaki within the sanctum.\n\nThere are separate shrines for major saints in the Vaishnava tradition, including Ramanuja.\n\nThe Ranganathaswamy Temple has many mandapams:\n\nThe Hall of 1000 pillars (actually 953) is a fine example of a planned theatre-like structure and opposite to it is the \"Sesha Mandap\". The 1000-pillared hall made of granite was constructed in the Vijayanagara period (1336–1565) on the site of the old temple. The most artistic halls that the Nayaks added to the complex is the \"Sesha Mandap\" on the east side of the fourth enclosure. The hall is celebrated for the leaping animals carved on to the piers at its northern end. The pillars consists of sculptures of wildly rearing horses bearing riders on their backs and trampling with their hoofs upon the heads of rampant tigers, seem only natural and congruous among such weird surroundings. The great hall is traversed by one wide aisle in the centre for the whole of its greater length, and intersected by transepts of like dimension running across at right angles. There still remain seven side aisles on each side, in which all the pillars are equally spaced out.\nThe \"Garuda Madapa\" (hall of the legendary bird deity of Vishnu, \"garuda\") located on the south side of the third enclosure is another Nayak addition. Courtly portrait sculptures, reused from an earlier structure, are fixed to the piers lining the central aisle. A free-standing shrine inside the hall contains a large seated figure of \"garuda\"; the eagle-headed god faces north towards the principal sanctum.\nThe \"Kili mandapa\" (Hall of parrot) is located next to the Ranganatha shrine, in the first enclosure of the temple. Elephant balustrades skirt the access steps that ascend to a spacious open area. This is bounded by decorated piers with rearing animals and attached colonettes in the finest 17th-century manner. Four columns in the middle define a raised dais; their shafts are embellished with undulating stalks.\n\nThere are 21 \"gopurams\" (tower gateways), among which the towering \"Rajagopuram\" (shrine of the main gateway) is the tallest temple tower in Asia. The 13-tiered \"Rajagopuram\" was built in 1987 by Ahobhila Matha, a historic Srivaishnava Hindu monastery. This tower dominates the landscape for miles around, while the remaining 20 gopurams were built between the 12th and early 17th centuries. The \"gopurams\" have pronounced projections in the middle of the long sides, generally with openings on each of the successive levels. The \"Vellai gopura\" (white tower) on the east side of the fourth enclosure has a steep pyramidal superstructure that reaches a height of almost . The structure of the Rajagopuram remained incomplete for over 400 years. Started during the reign of Achyuta Deva Raya of Vijayanagara Empire, the construction stopped after the fall of Vijayanagara in late 16th century and wars thereafter. The Rajagopuram (the main \"gopuram\") did not reach its current height of until 1987, when the 44th Jiyar (acharya, chief counsellor) of Ahobila Matha began collecting donations to complete it. The whole structure was constructed in a span of eight years. The Rajagopuram was consecrated on 25 March 1987. The length and breadth at the base of the Rajagopuram is , while the length and breadth at the top is . The 13 glistening copper 'kalasams' atop the tower weigh each, are high with a diameter vessel.\n\nThe Ranganathaswamy Temple town has over 800 inscriptions, of which nearly 640 are on temple walls and monuments. Many of these relate to gifts and grants by rulers or the elite, while others relate to the temple's management, scholars, dedication and general operation. The inscriptions have been a source of information about South Indian history, culture, economy and social role. These range from the late 9th century to the rule of Aditya Chola I, to the last historical ones from the 16th century. Others are from the times of Cholas, Nayakas, Pandyas, Hoysalas and the Vijayanagara era.\n\nThe historic inscriptions at the Ranganathaswamy Temple are in six major Indian languages: Tamil, Sanskrit,Kannada, Telugu, Marathi and Odiya. Further they are in several scripts including Tamil and Grantha. This diversity and the spread of inscription dates suggests that the temple has been an important pilgrimage center to both Tamil and non-Tamil Hindus.\n\nSome of the mandapam and corridors of the Temple complex have frescoes, of which some have faded. These narrate Hindu legends and mythologies, or scenes relating to Vaishnava scholars.\n\nThe Ranganathaswamy Temple complex includes huge medieval era \"Kottarams\" or granaries. These provided food reserves and security to the temple town and supplies to its kitchen serving the needy travelers, pilgrims and local population. The temple has many other structures, participating and supporting various aspects of social life. Some mandapams and temple compounds were devoted to education, both religious and secular such as of musicians and dancers. The temple inscriptions state that its premises had an \"arokyashala\" (hospital) for those needing medical care. Several 11th and 12th century inscriptions describe a gift of land to support recitation of Hindu texts in the temple and for feeding Sri Vaishnavas.\n\nThe temple has twelve major water tanks. Of these, the Surya Pushkarini (sun pool) and Chandra Pushkarani (moon pool) are two of the largest that harvest most of rain water. They have a combined capacity of two million liters of water.\n\nThe temple has wooden monuments that is regularly maintained and used for festive processions. These have intricate carvings of Hindu legends, and some are plated with silver or gold foils. The most significant of the temple chariots are the Garuda vahana, the Simha vahana, the Yanai vahana, the Kudirai vahana, the Hanumantha vahana, the Yazhi vahana, the Sesha vahana, the Annapakshi vahana, the Otrai vahana and the Prabhai vahana.\n\nRanganathaswamy temple is the only one out of the 108 temples that was sung in praise by all the Azhwars(Divine saints of Tamil Bhakthi movement), having a total of 247 \"pasurams\" (divine hymns) against its name. \"Acharyas\" (guru) of all schools of thought – Advaita, Vishistadvaita and Dvaita recognise the immense significance of the temple, regardless of their affiliations.\n\nNalayira Divya Prabhandam is a collection of 4000 hymns sung by twelve \"azhwars\" saints spread over 300 years (from the late 6th to 9th century AD) and collected by Nathamuni (910–990 AD). \"Divya Desams\" refer to 108 Vishnu temples that are mentioned in Nalayira Divya Prabandham. 105 of these are located in India, 1 in Nepal, while 2 are located outside of the Earthly realms. \"Divya\" in Tamil language indicates premium and \"Desam\" indicates place or temple. Periyalvar begins the decad on Srirangam with two puranic stories according to which Krishna restored to life the son of his \"guru\" Santipini and the children of a brahmin. Thondaradippodi Alvar and Thiruppaana Alvar have sung exclusively on Ranganatha. Andal attained Sri Ranganatha on completion of her \"Thiruppavai\" (a composition of 30 verses) in Srirangam. In total there are 247 hymns of the 4000 \"Pasurams\" dedicated to Ranganthar deity of this temple. Except Madhurakavi Alvar, all the other eleven azhwars have created \"Mangalasasanam\" (praise) about the Ranganathar in Srirangam. Out of 247, 35 are by Periyalvar, 10 by Aandaal, 31 by Kulasekara Alvar, 14 by Thirumalisai Alvar, 55 by Thondaradippodi Alvar, 10 by Thiruppaan Alvar, 73 by Thirumangai Alvar, one by Poigai Alvar,4 by Bhoothathalvar, two by Peyalvar and twelve by Nammalvar. Kulasekarar (Cheraman II) gave up his kingdom to his son during 798 AD and started visiting temples and singing praises about them. He visited the temple, praised the presiding deity and his works are compiled in Nalayira Divya Prabandam.\n\nKambar is a 12th-century Tamil poet who composed Kamba Ramayanam, a work inspired from the epic, Valmiki Ramayana. He is believed to have come to the temple to get the approval of his work from scholars. The Jain scholar Tirunarungundam honoured the work and it resulted in Tamil and Sanskrit scholars approving the work. The open hall where he recited his verse lies close to the Ranganayaki shrine within the temple.\nSome of the religious works like \"Sri Bhashyam\" by Ramanuja, \"Gadya Traya\" (which is a compilation of three texts called the \"Saranagati Gadyam\", \"Sriranga Gadyam\" and the \"Vaikunta Gadyam\") by Ramanuja, \"Sri Renga natha shtakam\" by Adi Shankaracharya, \"Paduka Sahasram\" by Swami Vedanta Desika, \"Renga raja Stavam\" and \"Guna ratna kosham\" by Sri Parasar bhattar, \"Renga raja Sthothram\" by Kurathazhwar, \"Bhagavad dhyana Sopnam\" and \"Abheethi Stavam\" by Swami Vedanta Desika are works that were exclusively composed in praise of Srirangam temple.\n\nThe term \"Kovil\" is generally used in Tamil to signify any temple, for many Vaishnavas the term \"Kovil\" exclusively refers to this temple, indicating its extreme importance for them (for saivas and all other Tamil people the term \"kovil\" refers to Thillai Natarajar Golden Shrine (Chidambaram Temple)). The presiding deity Ranganathar is praised in many names by his devotees, including \"Nam Perumal\" (our god in Tamil), \"Azhagiya Manavaalan\" (beautiful groom in Tamil).\n\nThe temple is considered in the Alwar traditions as one of the eight \"Sywayambu Kshetras\" of Vishnu where presiding deity is believed to have manifested on its own. Seven other temples in the line are Bhu Varaha Swamy temple, Tirumala Venkateswara Temple, and Vanamamalai Perumal Temple in South India and Saligrama, Naimisaranya, Pushkar and Badrinath Temple in North India.\n\nMany of the medieval Sri Vaishanava scholars like Nathamuni, Vedanta Desika and Ramanuja are associated with the temple. Ramanuja was a theologian, philosopher, and scriptural exegete. He is seen by as the third and most important teacher (\"ācārya\") of their tradition (after Nathamuni and Yamunacharya), and by Hindus in general as the leading expounder of , one of the classical interpretations of the dominant Vedanta school of Hindu philosophy. Ramanuja renounced his family life and went to Srirangam to occupy the pontificate – Srirangam became the stronghold of him and his disciples. \n\nThe doctrine of Vishishtadvaita philosophy, \"Sri Bhashyam\" was written and later compiled by Ramanuja over a period of time in this temple town. During his stay in Srirangam, he is said of have written \"Gadhya Thrayam\", which is recited in the temple during the ninth day (\"Panguni Uttaram\") of the festival of \"Adi brahmotsavam\". The temple is a center for the \"Vishishtadvaita\" school where Sanskrit Vedas and Tamil works are preached and taught with great reverence. He attained divinity in Srirangam. His \"Thaan-ana Thirumeni\" (the symbolic body) is preserved and offered prayers even today after eight centuries. The disciples of Ramanuja got his permission to install three metallic images, one each at Sriperumpudur, Melukote and the third, at Srirangam. The shrine is found in the fourth \"prakaram\" (outer courtyard) of the temple and the idol is preserved in the temple by applying saffron and camphor every six months in a ritualistic style. He is found seated in the Padmasana (yogic sitting posture), depicting the \"Gnyana-Mudrai\" (symbol of knowledge) with his right palm. \"Kovil Ozhugu\" is a codification of all temple practices, religious and administrative, shaped and institutionalised by Sri Ramanuja after receiving the due rights from Sri Thiruvarangathamudanar. A stone inscription to this effect is installed in the \"Arya patal vasal\" (main gate before the first precinct).\n\nPancharanga Kshetrams (also called \"Pancharangams\", meaning the \"five Rangams or Ranganathas\") is a group of five sacred Hindu temples, dedicated to Ranganatha, a form of the god Vishnu, on the banks of the Kaveri River. The five Pancharanga Kshetrams in the order of their successive locations, on the banks of the Kaveri River are: The Srirangapatnam called the Adi Ranga, the first temple on the banks of the Kaveri River from the upstream side; the Sri Ranganathaswamy Temple at Srirangam known as Adya Ranga (the last temple), Appalarangam or Koviladi at Tiruppernagar in Tamil Nadu, Parimala Ranganatha Perumal Temple or Mayuram at Indalur, Mayiladuthurai and Vatarangam at Sirkazhi. The Sarangapani temple at Kumbakonam is mentioned in place of Vatarangam in some references.\n\nThe temple is maintained and administered by the Hindu Religious and Endowment Board of the Government of Tamil Nadu. An Executive officer appointed by the Board manages the temple along with Sri Azhagiya Manavala Perumal Temple, Pundarikakshan Perumal Temple at Thiruvellarai, Sri Vadivazhagiya Nambi Perumal Temple and Mariamman Temple at Anbil. There are three trustees and a chairman for the board of trustees. Annadhanam scheme, which provides free food to devotees, is implemented in the temple by the Board. Under the scheme, free food is offered to two hundred devotees every day in the temple and the expenditure is fully funded by the contributions from devotees.A battery operated vehicle is made available for elderly and physically challenged devotees,people can make use of it. AED ( automated external defibrillator) is also available in the temple .\n\nThe temple celebrates numerous festivals around the year including processions. These are called \"utsavam\" (celebrations).\n\n\"Pagal Pathu\" (10 day time) and \"Ra Pathu\" (10 day night time) festival is celebrated in the month of \"Margazhi\"(December–January) for twenty days. The first ten days are referred as \"Pagal-Pathu\" (10 day day time festival) and the second half as \"Ra Pathu\" (10 day night-time festival). The first day of \"Ra pathu\" is \"Vaikunta Ekadashi\". The eleventh day of each fortnight in Hindu calendar is called \"ekadasi\" and the holiest of all \"ekadasis\" as per \"vaishnavite\" tradition is the \"Vaikunta Ekadashi\". During the festival, through song and dance, this place is affirmed to be Bhooloka Vaikuntam (Heaven on Earth). Araiyar Sevai is a divine colloquim of araiyars, who recite and enact Nalayara Divya Prabanda, the 4000 verses of Alvars. \"Araiyars\" are born to \"Araiyar\" tradition most prevalent in Sri Vaishnava families in Srirangam, Alwar Thirunagari and Srivilliputhur. The tradition of Araiyar Sevai was started by Nathamuni during 10th century. It is believed as per Hindu mythology that 33 crores of gods come down to witness the event. The processional deity is brought to the 1000-pillared hall on the morning of \"Vaikunta Ekadashi\" through the \"Paramapada Vasal\" (gate to paradise). Lakhs of pilgrims rush to enter it after the gate is opened and the deity passes through it as it is believed that one who enters here will reach \"vaikuntam\" (heaven) after death. The gate is open only during the ten days of \"Ra Pathu\" (10 day night-time festival). On the last day of the festival, the poet Nammazhwar is said to be given salvation. The performance is enacted by priests and images in the temple depicts Nammazhwar as reaching heaven and getting liberation from the cycle of life and death. At that point, a member from the crowd of devotees, who are witnessing this passion play, goes up to the centre stage and requests Vishnu to return Nammazhwar to humanity, so that his words and form in the temple will continue to inspire and save the devotees. Following this performance of the salvation of Nammazhwar, the cantors are taken in procession round the temple.\n\nThe annual gold ornament cleaning festival is called \"Jyestabisheka\" (first of anointing) and is celebrated during the Tamil month of \"aani\" (June–July). The idols of all deities are abluted with water brought in large vessels of gold and silver.\n\n\"Brahmotsavam\" (Prime festival) is held during the Tamil month of \"Panguni\" (March–April). The preliminaries like \"ankurarpanam\", \"rakshabandhanam\", \"bheri thadanam\", \"dhwajarohanam\" and the sacrificial offerings in the \"yagasala\" are gone through as usual. The processions go round the Chitrai street in the evenings. On the second day, the deity is taken to a garden inside the temple. The deity is taken in a palanquin through the river Kaveri to a village on the opposite shore namely Jiyarpuram on the third day.\n\nThe annual temple chariot festival, called \"Rathothsavam\" is celebrated during the Tamil month of \"thai\" (January–February) and the processional deity, \"utsavar\" is taken round the temple in the temple car. \"Chitra Poornima\" is a festival based on the mythological incident of \"Gaj-graha\" (elephant crocodile). The elephant suffered in the jaws of crocodile and god rescued the elephant. \"Vasanthothsavam\" is celebrated during the Tamil month of \"vaikasi\" (May–June) which according to inscriptions is celebrated from 1444 AD.\n\n"}
{"id": "50408372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50408372", "title": "Rosser Beynon", "text": "Rosser Beynon\n\nRosser Beynon (1811 - 1876) was a Welsh musician. He was born in the Vale of Neath, Glamorganshire, shortly before his family moved to Merthyr Tydfil where for a few years he attended George Williams' school. At eight years of age, he left school and began work in a local iron-works. From a young age he attended the Soar Congregational Chapel, where he became a precentor in 1835 and ran a music class. He collected and wrote hymn tunes, twenty of these were published in 'Telyn Seion', a collection of hymn tunes and anthems. He died in January 1876 and was buried in Cefn cemetery, Merthyr Tydfil.\n"}
{"id": "9598034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9598034", "title": "Saranagati Gadyam", "text": "Saranagati Gadyam\n\nSharanagati Gadyam is a Sanskrit prayer written by the Srivaishnavism philosopher Ramanujacharya towards the end of the 11th century. It is one of the first \"bhakti\" prayers in this school of thought and is the basis for many prayers, like \"Raghuveera gadyam\" of this style. It is recited in the 108 \"divya desam\" temples including Srirangam.\n\nRamanuja and his disciples visited the Ranganatha temple in Shrirangam on \"panguni uttiram\", a day in the tamil calendar month of \"panguni\" (in spring) on the day of the ascension of the star called Uttiram. In Tamil mythology, Uttiram was in ascent when the goddess of the temple, Sri Ranganayaki Tayar, Lakshmi, was born and also the day she wed the god, Ranganatha. Ramanuja was inspired by the festivities of the day and composed Sriranga Gadyam and Sharanagati Gadyam and Vaikuntha Gadyam.\n\nSharanagati Gadyam, unlike the commentaries of Ramanuja on Vedanta, does not have detailed philosophical debates. Instead, it is a pure expression of \"bhakti\" and describes transcendental conversation between Ramanuja and Narayana with Sri also known as Lakshmi. He first describes the limitless kindness of Sri and asks that she recommend him to Narayana. Then, after her approval, he approaches Narayana and describes Him like in the Sriranga Gadyam. He explains that he has committed many sins and is ignorant of philosophy and asks that he be accepted into the list of devotees of Narayana. He only asks that he be blessed so he becomes a supreme devotee, never forgetting to serve Narayana. Pleased by his humility and his total surrender, Shri and Narayana bless him that his single act of surrender wiped his Karma and give him \"Moksha\".\nProse, alternate long and short sentences with many adjectival phrases.\n"}
{"id": "879001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=879001", "title": "Scindia", "text": "Scindia\n\nScindia (anglicized from Shinde and also spelled as Scindhia, Sindhia, Sindia) is a Hindu Maratha dynasty that ruled the Gwalior State. The Gwalior state was a part of the Maratha Confederacy in the 18th and 19th centuries, and a princely state of the colonial British government during the 19th and the 20th centuries. After India's independence in 1947, the members of the Scindia family became politicians.\n\nThe Scindia family of Kanherkhed originally served as shiledars (cavalrymen) under the Bahmani Sultanate. They later served the Peshwa (Prime minister of Chhtrapati Maharaj of Satara).\n\nThe Scindia dynasty was founded by Ranoji Scindia, who was the son of Jankojirao Scindia, the Deshmukh of Kanherkhed, a village in Satara District, Maharashtra. Peshwa Baji Rao's career saw the strengthening of the Maratha Empire. Ranoji was in charge of the Maratha conquests in Malwa in 1726. Ranoji established his capital at Ujjain in 1731. His successors included Jayajirao, Jyotibarao, Dattajirao, Jankojirao, Mahadji Shinde and Daulatrao Scindia. The Scindhia state of Gwalior became a major regional power in the latter half of the 18th century and figured prominently in the three Anglo-Maratha Wars. They held sway over many of the Rajput states, and conquered north India.\n\nAfter the defeat of the allied Maratha states by the British in the Third Anglo-Maratha War of 1818, Daulatrao Scindia was forced to accept local autonomy as a princely state within British India and to give up Ajmer to the British. After the death of Daulatrao, Maharani Baiza Bai ruled the empire, saving it from the British power, till the adopted child Jankoji Rao took over the charge. Jankoji died in 1843, and his widow Tarabai Raje scindia successfully maintained the position and adopted a child from close lineage named Jayajirao.\n\nThe Scindia family ruled Gwalior until India's independence from the United Kingdom in 1947, when the Maharaja Jivajirao Scindia acceded to the Government of India. Gwalior was merged with a number of other princely states to become the new Indian state of Madhya Bharat. George Jivajirao served as the state's rajpramukh, or appointed governor, from 28 May 1948 to 31 October 1956, when Madhya Bharat was merged into Madhya Pradesh.\n\nIn 1962, Rajmata Vijayraje Scindia, the widow of Maharaja Jiwajirao, was elected to the Lok Sabha, beginning the family's career in electoral politics. She was first a member of the Congress Party, and later became an influential member of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Her son Madhavrao Scindia was elected to the Lok Sabha in 1971 representing the Congress Party, and served until his death in 2001. His son, Jyotiraditya Scindia, also in the Congress Party, was elected to the seat formerly held by his father in 2004.\n\nVijayaraje's daughters have supported the Bharatiya Janata Party. Vasundhara Raje Scindia contested and won five parliamentary elections from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Under the Vajpayee government from 1998 onwards, Vasundhara was in charge of several different ministries. In 2003 she led the Bharatiya Janata Party to its largest majority in Rajasthan, and became the state's Chief Minister. In 2013 again, she led Bharatiya Janata Party to a thumpin win in the state of Rajasthan, winning over 160 out of the 200 seats in the assembly elections. Her other daughter, Yashodhara Raje Scindia, contested assembly elections from Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh and won in 1998, 2003 and 2013 and also lokshabha 2004,2009 from gwalior. Upon the BJP's win in the state, she became the state's Minister for Tourism, Sports and Youth Affairs. Vasundhara's son Dushyant Singh entered the Lok Sabha in 2004 from Rajasthan.\n\nIn the course of their military service, the Shinde were bestowed numerous titles by the British Empire, which grew more elaborate with the passage of time:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41684375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41684375", "title": "Surkhab II", "text": "Surkhab II\n\nSurkhab II (Persian:سهراب دوم) was the fourth ruler of the Bavand dynasty from 755 to 772. In 760, his overlord, the Dabuyids, under Khurshid of Tabaristan, revolted against the Abbasid Caliphate. Khurshid, was, however, defeated, and fled to Daylam, where he made a counterattack against the Abbasids, but was once again defeated. After learning that his family was captured by the Abbasids, Khurshid poisoned himself. This marked the end of the Dabuyid dynasty, however, other dynasties such as the Bavandids, Karenids and Zarmihrids, who were all formerly subject to the Dabuyids, continued to control parts of Tabaristan as tributary vassals of the Abbasid government. Surkhab II died in 772, and was succeeded by his son Sharwin I, who would later along with the rulers of Tabaristan revolt against the Abbasids and massacre all the Muslims in Tabaristan.\n\n"}
{"id": "56482735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56482735", "title": "Tenrikyo Doyusha", "text": "Tenrikyo Doyusha\n\nTenrikyo Doyusha (天理教道友社 \"Tenrikyō Dōyūsha\") is the official publisher of Tenrikyo Church Headquarters, disseminating news, information, and doctrinal materials related to Tenrikyo.\n\nTenrikyo Doyusha was founded on August 4, 1891, following a direction from spiritual leader Iburi Izō requesting that \"a periodical should be published under the auspices of the Tenrikyo Church.\" The periodical \"Michi no tomo\" (みちのとも \"Friends of the Path\") was first published in December 28 of the same year. During the Meiji and Taisho periods, \"Michi no tomo\" was the only periodical issued by Tenrikyo Doyusha.\n\nOn November 18, 1930, the first issue of \"Tenri Jiho\" (天理時報 \"Tenri Times\") was published by Tenri Central Library as a commemorative issue celebrating the opening of the library. For several months \"Tenri Jiho\" was simply a bulletin for the library, but on July 2, 1931, the responsibility of its publication was transferred to Tenrikyo Doyusha, where it has since taken a newspaper format.\n"}
{"id": "16785053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16785053", "title": "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints membership statistics (United States)", "text": "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints membership statistics (United States)\n\nThis page shows membership statistics of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints within the United States.\n\nMembership reported by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on December 31, 2017 was used to determine the number of members in each state. The LDS church defines membership as:\n\nThe United States Census Bureau July 1, 2017 population estimates was used as the basis for the general population. Each state link gives a brief history and additional membership information for that state.\n\nThe 2001 American Religious Identification Survey (ARIS) was based on a random digit-dialed telephone survey of 50,281 American adults in the continental U.S.\n\nThe Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life published a survey of 35,556 adults living in the United States that was conducted in 2007. The 2007 survey, conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International (PSRAI), found 1.7% of the U.S. adult population self identified themselves as Mormon. The table below lists a few significant findings, from the survey, about Mormons. Note: some less populated states were combined in this survey. These include:Montana-Wyoming,D.C.-Maryland, North & South Dakota, New Hampshire-Vermont, and Connecticut-Rhode Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "16829150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16829150", "title": "Traditional Ambrosian Rite", "text": "Traditional Ambrosian Rite\n\nThe Ambrosian Rite is a Latin Catholic liturgical Western Rite used in the area of Milan. The Traditional Ambrosian Rite is the form of this rite as it was used before the changes that followed the Second Vatican Council.\n\nNowadays the Traditional Ambrosian Rite is mainly used on Sundays and Holy Days of Obligation in the church of \"Santa Maria della Consolazione\" in Milan, using the Ambrosian Missal of 1954, as permitted by Cardinal Archbishop of Milan Carlo Maria Martini on 31 July 1985. Another celebration on Sundays and Holy Days of Obligation was authorized from 18 October 2008 onward in the town of Legnano. The Traditional Ambrosian Rite Mass may be said according to the Motu Proprio \"Summorum Pontificum\" thus any permissions allowing the above-mentioned Masses should be considered obsolete for such permissions from the bishop are no longer required.\n\nThe liturgical year of the Ambrosian Rite begins the First Sunday of Advent, which however takes place 2 weeks earlier than in the Roman Rite, so that there are six Sundays in Advent, and the key-day of the beginning of Advent is not St. Andrew's Day (30 November) but St. Martin's Day (11 November), which begins the Sanctorale. The same is true for the Mozarabic Rite.\n\nOn the sixth Sunday of Advent the Annunciation (in Roman Rite on 25 March) is celebrated. As no fixed festivals are kept during Lent or Easter Week, it cannot be celebrated on 25 March, though it is found there in the Calendar and has an Office in the Breviary. On this Sunday there are two Masses, one of the Advent and another one of the Incarnation. This day may be compared with the Mozarabic feast of the Annunciation on 18 December.\n\nChristmas Day has three Masses, during the night, at dawn, and during the day, as in the Roman Rite. The day after the Epiphany is the \"Christophoria\" (the Return from Egypt). The Sundays after the Epiphany vary, of course, in number, six being the maximum, as in the Roman Rite. The second is the Feast of the Holy Name of Jesus. Then follow Septuagesima, Sexagesima, and Quinquagesima Sundays, on which, though Gloria in Excelsis and Hallelujah are used, the vestments are violet.\n\nThere is no Ash Wednesday, and Lent begins liturgically on the first Sunday, the fast beginning on the Monday. Until the time of St. Charles Borromeo the liturgical Lent, with its use of litanies on Sundays instead of Gloria in Excelsis and the disuse of Hallelujah, began on the Monday. The title of the Sunday is \"Dominica in capite Quadragesimæ\". The other Sundays of Lent are styled \"De Samaritanâ\", \"De Abraham\", \"De Cæco\", \"De Lazaro\", and \"in Ramis Palmarum\" or \"Dominica Olivarum\" (Palm Sunday). The names of the second to the fifth Sundays are in allusion to the subject of the Gospel of the day, not, as in the Roman Rite, to the Introit. (Cf. nomenclature of Greek Rite.) Passiontide does not begin until Holy Week. The day before Palm Sunday is Sabbatum in Traditione Symboli. This, the Blessing of the Font, the extra Masses pro Baptizatis in Ecclesiâ Hyemali on Easter Eve and every day of Easter Week, and the name of the first Sunday after Easter \"in albis depositis\", show even more of a lingering memory of the old Easter Baptisms than the similar survivals in the Roman Rite. Holy Week is Hebdomada Authentica. Holy Thursday, Good Friday, Easter Eve, and Easter Day are named as in the Roman Rite.\n\nThe five Sundays after Easter, Ascension, Pentecost, Trinity Sunday, and Corpus Christi follow, as in the Roman Rite, but the \"Triduum Litaniarum\" (Rogation Days) comes on the Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday after, instead of before, Ascension Day. The Sundays after Pentecost are designated as such (e.g. 3rd Sunday after Pentecost) until the Decollation of St. John (29 August). There may be as many as fifteen of them. Then follow either four or five Sundays called \"post Decollationem S. Joannis Baptistæ\", then three Sundays of October, the third of which is the feast of the Dedication of Milan Cathedral. The rest of the Sundays until Advent are called \"post Dedicationem\".\n\nThe Calendar of the Saints calls for little notice. There are many local saints, and several feasts which are given in the Roman Calendar in late February, March, and early April are given on other days, because of the rule against feasts in Lent. Only St. Joseph and the Annunciation come in the Lenten part of the Calendar, but the Masses of these are given on 12 December and the sixth Sunday of Advent respectively. The days are classified as follows:\n\n\nFeasts are also grouped into four classes: First class of Solemnitates Domini and Solemnia; second class of the same; greater and ordinary Solemnia; non-Solemnia, divided into privilegiata and simplicia. Solemnia have two vespers, non-Solemnia only one, the first. The privilegiata have certain propria and the simplicia only the communia. The general principle of occurrences is that common to the whole Western Church. If two festivals fall on the same day, the lesser is either transferred, merely commemorated, or omitted. But the Ambrosian Rite differs materially from the Roman in the rank given to Sunday, which is only superseded by a Solemnitas Domini, and not always then, for if the Name of Jesus or the Purification falls on Septuagesima, Sexagesima, or Quinquagesima Sunday, it is transferred, though the distribution and procession of candles takes place on the Sunday on which the Purification actually falls. If a Solemne Sanctorum or a privileged non-Solemne falls on a Sunday, a Solemnitas Domini, the Friday or Saturday of the fourth or fifth week of Advent, a Feria de Exceptato, within an Octave of a great Feast, a Feria Litaniarum, or a Feria of Lent, the whole office is of the Sunday, Solemnitas Domini, etc., and the Solemne or non-Solemne privilegiatum is transferred, in most cases to the next clear day, but in the case of Solemnia of the first or second class to the next Feria, quocumque festo etiam solemni impedita. A simple non-Solemne is never transferred, but it is omitted altogether if a Solemne of the first class falls on the same day, and in other cases of occurrences it is commemorated, though of course it supersedes an ordinary Feria. The concurrences of the first Vespers of one feast with the second of another are arranged on much the same principle, the chief peculiarity being that if a Solemne Sanctorum falls on a Monday its first Vespers is kept not on the Sunday, but on the preceding Saturday, except in Advent, when this rule applies only to Solemnia of the first and second class, and other Solemnia are only commemorated at Sunday Vespers. The liturgical colours of the Ambrosian Rite are very similar to those of the Roman, the most important differences being that (except when some greater day occurs) red is used on the Sundays and Feriæ after Pentecost and the Decollation of St. John until the Eve of the Dedication (third Sunday in October), on Corpus Christi and its Octave, and during Holy Week, except on Good Friday, as well as on the days on which it is used in the Roman Rite, and that (with similar exceptions) green is only used from the Octave of the Epiphany to the eve of Septuagesima, from Low Sunday to the Friday before Pentecost, after the Dedication to Advent, and on feasts of abbots.\n\nThe Ambrosian distribution of the Psalter is partly fortnightly and partly weekly. Psalms 1 to 108 are divided into ten decuriæ, one of which, in its numerical order, divided into three Nocturns, is recited at Matins on the Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays of each fortnight, each Nocturn being said under one antiphon. At the Matins of Sunday and Solemnitates Domini and on Feriæ in Easter and Pentecost weeks and the octave of Corpus Christi, there are no psalms, but three Old Testament canticles, Isaias 26, \"De nocte vigilatâ\"; the Canticle of Anna (1 Kings 2), \"Confirmatum est\"; and the Canticle of Jonas, \"Clamavi ad Dominum\", or of Habacuc, \"Domine audivi\". And on Saturdays the Canticle of Moses (Exod. 15), \"Cantemus Domino\", and half of Psalm 118 take the place of Decuriæ at the three Nocturns.\n\nAt Vespers, Psalms 109 to 147, except 117, 118, and 133, which are used elsewhere, and 142, which is only used in the Office of the Dead and as Psalmus Directus at Lauds on Fridays, are divided between the whole seven days of each week in their numerical sequence, and in the same manner as in the Roman Rite.\n\nPsalm 118, besides being used on Saturdays, is distributed among the four lesser Hours exactly as in the Roman Rite; Psalm 50 is said at Lauds every day except Sunday, when the Benedicite takes its place, and Saturday, when Psalm 117, takes its place, and with the Preces (when these are used) at Prime and Terce throughout the year and at None during Lent, while at the Preces of Sext Psalm 53 is said, and at those of None Psalm 85, except during Lent. Psalm 53 precedes \"Beati immaculati\" at Prime, and Psalms 4, 30, V. 1-6, 90 and 133 are said daily, as in the Roman Rite, at Compline.\n\nAt Lauds a single Psalm, known as Psalmus Directus, differing with the day of the week, is also said.\n\nTABLE OF DECURIÆ \n\nDuring Lent Psalm 90 is said as Psalmus Directus at Vespers, except on Sundays, Fridays, and Saturdays, and the \"Four Verses of a Psalm\" at Lauds on Saturdays are alternately from the twelfth and first parts of Ps. 118, and on the six Sundays the \"Four Verses\" are from 69, 101, 62, 58. During Lent also the Vesper \"Four Verses\" are different for every day, except that there are none on Friday, and those on the first four Saturdays are from Ps. 91. In Holy Week the Psalms at the Nocturns and at Vespers are all proper, and there are also proper Psalms during the period from the first Feria de Exceptato until the Circumcision; and on the Annunciation (sixth Sunday of Advent), Epiphany, Christophoria, Name of Jesus, Ascension, Corpus Christi, the Dedication and many Solemnia Sanctorum, and on many other saints' days the Decuriœ are superseded by Psalms of the common (liturgy) Common of Saints.\n\nAntiphonœ, similar in construction to those in the Roman Rite are: in Psalmis et canticis, used as in the Roman Rite; in Choro, said after the Lucernarium on Sundays, at the second Vespers of Solemnia, or on other saints' days, at first Vespers, but not on Feriœ, except Saturdays in Advent; ad Crucem, said on Solemnitates Domini, on Sundays, except in Lent, and on Solemnia. Responsoria are constructed as in the Roman Rite, and are: Post hymnum, said after the hymn at Matins; Inter lectiones at Matins; cum Infantibus or cum Pueris after the hymn at the first Vespers of Solemnia; in Choro, said at Vespers on Sundays, at the second Vespers of Solemnia, and at the first of Non-Solemnia, after the hymn; in Baptisterio, at Lauds and Vespers of some Solemnitates after the first Psallenda, on Feriœ after the twelve Kyries, at Vespers after the prayer which follows Magnificat; Diaconalia or Quadragesimalia, on Wednesdays in Lent and on Good Friday; ad Cornu Altaris, at Lauds before the Psalmus Directus on Christmas Day, the Epiphany, and Easter Eve; Gradualia, said after the hymn at Lauds on Feriœ in Lent. Lucernaria are Responsoria which begin Vespers. Psallendœ are single verses, often from the Psalms, said after the twelve Kyries and the second prayer at Lauds, and after the prayers at Vespers. They are variable according to the day, and are followed by either one or two fixed Complenda or Completoria, which are also single verses. Psalmi Directi are said at Lauds and sometimes at Vespers. They are sung together by both choirs, not antiphonally. Psalmi Quatuor Versus is the name given to four verses of a psalm said at Vespers and Lauds on weekdays, after one of the Collects. Among the Hymns, besides those by St. Ambrose, or commonly attributed to him, many are included by other authors, such as Prudentius, Venantius Fortunatus, St. Gregory, St. Thomas Aquinas, and many whose authorship is unknown. A considerable number of well-known hymns (e. g. \"Ave Maris Stella\", \"A Solis Ortus Cardine\", \"Jesu Redemptor Omnium,\" \"Iste confessor\") are not in the Ambrosian Hymnal, but there are many there which are not in the Roman, and those that are common to both generally appear as they were before the revisions of Urban VIII, though some have variants of their own. Capitula are short lessons of Scripture used as in the Roman Rite. At the Lesser Hours and Compline Capitula taken from the Epistles are called Epistolellœ.\n\n(The constantly occurring Dominus vobiscum, etc., has been omitted in this analysis.) \n\nThe Ambrosian Mass in its present form is best shown by an analysis pointing out the differences from the Tridentine Mass. As a great part of it agrees word for word with the Roman, it will only be necessary to indicate the agreements, without giving the passages in full. There are a certain number of ceremonial differences, the most noticeable of which are: \n\nIn the rubrics of the Missal there are certain survivals of ancient usage which could only have applied to the city of Milan itself, and may be compared with the \"stations\" affixed to certain Masses in the Roman Missal of to-day. The Ambrosian Rite supposes the existence of two cathedrals, the Basilica Major or \"Ecclesia Æstiva]\" (\"summer church\"), and the Basilica Minor or \"Ecclesia Hiemalis\" (\"winter church\"). Lejay, following Giulini, calls the Ecclesia Major (St. Mary's) the winter church, and St. Thecla the summer church (Cabrol, Dictionnaire d'archéologie chrétienne, col. 1382 sqq.), but Ecclesia Hiematis and Ecclesia Major in the \"Bergamo Missal\", and Ecclesia Hiemalis and Ad Sanctam Mariam, in all missals, are evidently contrasted with one another. Also the will of Berengarius I, founding St. Rafaele (quoted by Giulini, I, 416) speaks of the latter being near the summer church, which it is, if the summer church is St. Mary's. There is also assumed to be a detached baptistery and a Chapel of the Cross, though mentions of these are found chiefly in the Breviary, and in earlier times the church of St. Laurence was the starting point of the Palm Sunday ceremonies. The greater, or summer, church, under the patronage of Our Lady, is now the Cathedral; the lesser, or winter, church, which stood at the opposite end of the Piazza del Duomo, and was destroyed in 1543, was under the patronage of St. Thecla. As late as the time of Beroldus (twelfth century) the changes from one to the other were made at Easter and at the Dedication of the Great Church (third Sunday in October), and even now the rubric continues to order two Masses on certain great days, one in each church, and on Easter Eve and through Easter week one Mass is ordered daily pro baptizatis in Ecclesia Hiemali, and another, according to the Bergamo book, in Ecclesia Majori. The modern books say \" in omni ecclesiâ\". There were two baptisteries, both near the greater church.\n\nOf the services in the Ritual and Pontifical there is not much to say. The ceremonies of Baptism differ in their order from those of the Roman Rite. The Ambrosian order is: renunciation; ephphatha; sufflation; unction; exorcism and second sufflation; signing with the Cross; delivery of the salt; introduction into the church; Creed and Lord's Prayer; declaration of faith; Baptism, for which the rubric is: Ter occiput mergit in aqua in crucis formam (and, as Legg points out, the Ambrosians boast that their baptism is always by immersion); litany; anointing with chrism; delivery of white robe and candle; dismissal. A great part of the wording is exactly the same as the Roman.\n\nThe order of the Unction of the Sick shows the progress of Roman influence in modern times. The service at present used differs very little except at one point from that given by Magistretti (Mon. Vet., II, 79, 94, 147) from early Manuscripts, and from the form in the undated printed Ritual of the late fifteenth century, but the difference at that point is no less than the introduction of the Roman manner and words of anointing. The old Ambrosian Rite was to anoint the sick person on the breast, the hands, and the feet, with the words: \"Ungo te oleo sanctificato, more militis unctus et preparatus ad luctam aerias possis catervas. Operare creatura olei, in nomine+Dei Patris omnipotentis+et Filii+et Spiritus Sancti, ut non lateat spiritus immundus nec in membris nec in medullis nec in ulla compagine membrorum hujus hominis [vel mulieris] sed operetur in eo virtus Christi Filii Altissimi qui cum æterno Patri... . Amen.\" Then, \"Quidquid peccasti per cogitationem cordis [per operationem manuum vel per ingressum pedum] parcat tibi Deus. Amen.\" The fifteenth-century printed Ritual varies the first anointing. Instead of \"Quidquid peccasti\", it reads, \"Per istam unctionem et cristi sacratissimam passionem si quid peccasti, etc.\", the other two being as in the older books. The Ungo te, etc., is repeated with each. A somewhat similar form, but shorter, with the anointing of the five senses and reading Ungimus for Ungo, is given in Harl. Manuscript 2990, an early fifteenth-century North Italian fragment, and in the Venetian printed pre-Tridontine Rituals, a form very like the last (but reading Ungo) with the same anointings as in the Roman Rite, is given as the rite of the Patriarchate of Venice. This form, or something very like it, with the seven anointings is found in the Asti Ritual described by Gastoué. In the modern Ambrosian Ritual the Roman seven anointings and the form, Per istam unctionem, etc., are taken over bodily and the Ungo te has disappeared.\n\nThe differences in the Order of Matrimony are very slight, and the other contents of the Ritual call for no special remark. In the ninth-century Pontifical published by Magistretti the consecration of a church includes the solemn entry, the writing of the ABCturium, with the cambutta (that Gaelic word, cam bata, crooked staff, which is commonly used in Gallican books), the blessing and mixture of salt, water, ashes, and wine, the sprinkling and anointing of the church and the altar, the blessing of various utensils, and at the end the deposition of the relics. The order given by Mercati from an eleventh-century Manuscript at Lucca differs from the ninth-century form in that there is a circumambulation and sprinkling, with the signing of the cross on the door, the writing of an alphabet per parietem and the making of three crosses on each wall with chrism, before the entry, and there is no deposition of relics. There are also considerable differences of wording. The ordinations in the ninth-century Manuscript are of the same mixed Roman and Gallican type, but are less developed than those of the modern Roman Pontifical.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2486681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2486681", "title": "Trisong Detsen", "text": "Trisong Detsen\n\nTrisong Detsen or Trisong Detsän () was the son of Me Agtsom and the 38th emperor of Tibet. He ruled from AD 755 until 797 or 804. Trisong Detsen was the second of the Three Dharma Kings of Tibet, playing a pivotal role in the introduction of Buddhism to Tibet and the establishment of the Nyingma or \"Ancient\" school of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nThe empire Trisong Detsen inherited had declined somewhat from its greatest extent under the first Dharma King, Songtsen Gampo. Disintegration continued when, in 694, Tibet lost control of several cities in Turkestan and, in 703, Nepal broke into rebellion. Meanwhile, Arab forces vied for influence along the western border lands of the Tibetan empire.\n\nTrisong Detsen is very important to the history of Tibetan Buddhism as one of the three 'Dharma Kings' (Tibetan:\"chosgyal\") who established Buddhism in Tibet. The Three Dharma Kings were Songtsen Gampo, Trisong Detsen, and Ralpacan.\n\nThe \"Skar-cung\" pillar erected by Sadnalegs (ruled c. 800-815) says that during the reign of Trisong Detsen, \"shrines of the Three Jewels were established by building temples at the centre and on the borders, \"Bsam-yas\" in \"Brag-mar\" and so on\". The first edict of Trisong Detsen already mentions a community of monks at \"Bsam-yas\" (Samye).\n\nTrisong became emperor in 755 and, in post-imperial sources, is claimed to have invited Padmasambhava, Śāntarakṣita, Vimalamitra, and various other Indian teachers to come to Tibet to spread the latest understanding of the teaching. The two pandits began by establishing Samye as the first vihara in Tibet. Several Tibetans were eventually initiated as monks and a vast translation project was undertaken translating the Buddhist scriptures from Sanskrit into Classical Tibetan.\n\nThe first documented dissemination of Chan Buddhism to Tibet, chronicled in what has become known as the \"Statements of the Sba Family\", occurred in about 761 when Trisong Detsen sent a party to the Yizhou region to receive the teachings of Kim Hwasang, a Korean Chan master, who they encountered in Sichuan. The party received teachings and three Chinese texts from Kim, who died soon after.\n\nTrisong Detsen patronised a second party to China in 763. This second expedition was headed by a high minister, Sba Gsalsnan. There is scholarly dissent about whom Gsalsnan encountered in Yizhou. Early scholarship considered Kim, but this had been revised to Baotang Wuzhu (714-774), head and founder of Baotang Monastery in Chengdu. Both Kim and Baotang Wuzhu were of the same school of Chan, the East Mountain Teaching.\n\nTrisong Detsen, hosted a famous two-year debate from 792-794, known in Western scholarship as the \"Council of Lhasa\" (although it took place at Samye at quite a distance from Lhasa) outside the capital. He sponsored a Dharma debate between the Chan Buddhist Moheyan, who represented the third documented wave of Chan dissemination in Tibet, and the scholar Kamalaśīla, a student of Śāntarakṣita. Effectively the debate was between the Chinese and Indian Buddhist traditions as they were represented in Tibet.\n\nSources differ about both the nature of the debate as well as the victor. Stein (1972: p. 66-67) holds that Kamalaśīla disseminated a \"gradualist approach\" to enlightenment, consisting of purificatory sādhanā such as cultivating the pāramitās. Kamalashila's role was to ordain Tibetans as Buddhist monks and propagate Buddhist philosophy as it had flourished in India. Stein (1972: p. 66-67) holds that Kamalaśīla was victorious in the debate and that Trisong Detsän sided with Kamalaśīla.\n\nTrisong Detsen is also traditionally associated with the construction of Boudhanath in the Kathmandu Valley in Nepal.\n\nThe role of Padmasambhava on the other hand was to establish the teaching of Buddhist Tantra in Tibet. During the reign of Trisong Detsän the combined efforts of Padmasambhava, Śāntarakṣita and Kamalaśīla established both the Indian Buddhist philosophical interpretation and Buddhist tantra in Tibet.\n\nIn 763 Trisong Detsen sent an army of 200,000 men to the border with Tang China, defeating the forces there and then continuing on to take Chang'an, the Tang Chinese capital, forcing Emperor Daizong of Tang to flee the capital. In 783 a peace treaty was negotiated between China and Tibet giving Tibet all lands in Qinghai. The Tang Empire had declined greatly due to the An Lushan Rebellion which was finally quelled in 763.\n\nThe King also formed an alliance with Nanzhao in 778, joining forces to attack the Chinese in Sichuan.\n\nTrisong Detsen next sought to expand westward, reaching the Amu Darya and threatening the Abbasid Caliph, Harun ar-Rashid. The Caliph was concerned enough to establish an alliance with the Chinese emperor. King Trosong Detsen would be preoccupied with Arab wars in the west, taking pressure off his Chinese opponents to the east and north, until his rule ended in 797.\n\nTrisong Detsen had four sons: Mutri Tsenpo, Muné Tsenpo, Mutik Tsenpo, and Sadnalegs. The eldest son, Mutri Tsenpo, died early.\n\nTrisong Detsen retired to live at the palace at Zungkar and handed power to his second son, Muné Tsenpo, in 797. From this point there is much confusion in the various historical sources. It seems there was a struggle for the succession after the death of Trisong Detsen. It is not clear when Trisong Detsen died, or for how long Mune Tsenpo reigned. The \"Testament of Ba\", a Tibetan historical text which may date back to the 9th century, claims that Muné Tsenpo insisted that his father's funeral be performed according to Buddhist rather than traditional rites.\n\nIt is said that Mune Tsenpo was poisoned by his mother, who was jealous of his beautiful wife.\n\nWhatever the case, both the \"Old Book of Tang\" and the Tibetan sources agree that, since Mune Tsenpo had no heirs, power passed to his younger brother, Sadnalegs, who was on the throne by 804 CE.\n\nThe other brother, Mutik Tsenpo, was apparently not considered for office as he had previously murdered a senior minister and had been banished to Lhodak Kharchu near the Bhutanese border.\n"}
{"id": "38443208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38443208", "title": "Turban training centre", "text": "Turban training centre\n\nTurban Training Centre or Turban Tying Centre or Dastar Academy () () () are training-cum-tying institutes opened by professionals, who train Sikhs, in tying Dastar on their heads. They also tie Dastar for those people who do not know how to tie turban, charging fees. Their regular clients include industrialists, businessmen, doctors, engineers, transporters and students.\n\nTurban training centers have opened mostly in main cities of Punjab, such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Patiala, Amritsar, Chamkaur, Moga. Baptized male Sikhs cover their hair with a turban, while baptized female Sikhs may do so. However, the trend of wearing turbans declined due to fashion,glamor and youngsters preferring to keep cut hair and a clean shaved face. Regional Punjabi film stars and Punjabi music icons such as Inderjit Nikku, Diljit Dosanjh, Lehmber Hussainpuri, Ravinder Grewal, Ammy Virk, Ranjit Bawa,Sidhu Moose Wala,Tarsem Jassar,Kulbir Jhinjher,Surjit Bindrakhia,Himmat Sandhu who always wear Pag in their films and music videos, have inspired Sikh youths to wear turbans with various new styles.\n\nSeveral styles of Sikh turban are popular, including Patiala Shahi, Morni Dastar, Pochvi Dastar, Barnala Shahi, Amritsar Shahi, Vatta Vaali and Dumalla/Dhamalla for baptised Sikhs. Dabbi Vaale Parne is a casual turban mostly worn by farmers in villages and has been popularized by Diljit Dosanjh,Nikku,Ravinder Grewal and now popularized in cities as well. Barring these, a simple turban with the shape and size of individual liking is tied. The length of cloth of any of the above styles varies according to personal suiting.\n\nSome centres also provide training in \"Dumalla style\", which is basic attire for all baptized Sikhs and can also teach Parna a casual turban to all category of Sikhs. Many Sabat Surat Turban Trainers/Tyers have inspired Sabat Surat Sikh Youth and other clean shaven males to wear Dastar to keep hair back and reject caps. Many turban trainers offer training camps in Non-Punjab States like Delhi, Maharashtra etc.\n\nTurban Trainers mostly prefer common full \"Voil\" or \"F-74 Malmal\" cloth and prefer double over single size and the turban is slightly made wet before they start the tying procedure and before tying Dastar a Patka or Keski is tied on head to cover hair first and head base is set in a proper way by tying the hair backwards\n\nSome Turban Centres only sell turbans such as full Voil, Rubia or Malmal Cloth but do not give professional training and are called by name Pagri Centre. \n\nDuring the wedding season and major festivals the number of clients increase.\n\n"}
