{"id": "39108397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39108397", "title": "Aaya Ram Gaya Ram", "text": "Aaya Ram Gaya Ram\n\nAaya Ram Gaya Ram expression in politics of India means frequent floor-crossing by legislatures. The term was coined when Gaya Lal a Member of the Legislative Assembly from Haryana in 1967 changed party thrice in a fortnight first from the Indian National Congress to United Front, back to Congress and then within nine hours to United Front again. When Gaya Lal decided to quit the United Front and join the Congress, then Congress leader Rao Birendra Singh brought him to Chandigarh press and declared \"Gaya Ram was now Aya Ram\". It became the subject of numerous jokes and cartoons. In 1985 the Constitution amended the anti-defection act. to prevent such defections. It was included in constitution by Rajiv Gandhi Government as the tenth schedule of Indian constitution.\n"}
{"id": "6812129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6812129", "title": "Active labour market policies", "text": "Active labour market policies\n\nActive labour market policies (ALMPs) are government programmes that intervene in the labour market to help the unemployed find work. Many of these programmes grew out of earlier public works projects, particularly those implemented under the New Deal, designed to combat widespread unemployment in the developed world during the interwar period. Today, academic analysis of ALMPs is associated with economists such as Lars Calmfors and Richard Layard. Demand-side policies are policies used by the government to control the level of Aggregate demand (AD).\n\nThere are three main categories of ALMP:\n\n\nActive labour market policies are prominent in the economic policy of the Scandinavian countries, although over the 1990s they grew in popularity across Europe. Notable examples include the New Deal in the UK and many welfare-to-work programmes in the US.\n\nA number of authors have argued that countries with stronger left wing political parties and trade unions have more developed ALMP. On the other hand, social democratic parties may not promote ALMP if their constituents are well protected workers and hence face little risk of being unemployed. More recently, the notion that different types of ALMP have similar political determinants has been contested. In the United States and Great Britain, fragmented and under-resourced ALMPs have been attributed as a factor in the rise of populist backlash politics in the Rust Belt and post-industrial northern England during the mid-2010s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40863703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40863703", "title": "Al-'Asifah", "text": "Al-'Asifah\n\nAl-`Asifah (, , \"the Storm\") was the mainstream armed wing of the Palestinian political party and militant group Fatah. Al-Asifah was jointly led by Yasser Arafat and Khalil Wazir.\n\nOn New Year's Day 1965, Fatah announced the formation of its military wing, called the al-Asifah forces, in Military Communique No. 1. This statement reported Asifah's first guerrilla attacks against Israel and officially declared the launch of the armed struggle for Palestinian independence. At the time, Fatah was far from ready for sustained military activity. Although al-Asifah was rooted in the organized guerrilla movements known as the Fedayeen, it had few trained volunteers and even fewer serviceable arms.\n\nIts first attempted raid occurred on December 31, 1964, but was hindered when the fighters were detained by the Lebanese Armed Forces while planning to demolish a pumping station of the Israeli national water carrier. The following night a second al-Asifah unit infiltrated the border south of Lake Tiberius and laid explosive satchel in a water canal, which never detonated.In its early years, al-Asifah's direct military impact was negligible and their activities remained limited in scope and effectiveness. By the end of its first year, al-Asifah claimed to have carried out over 110 operations within Israeli territory. However, Israeli sources credit al-Asifah with a total of only 35 operations for the same time period.\n\nOverall, al-Asifah only had limited success in spearheading an armed struggle against Israel. Its operations were more symbolic than effective, and their impact was more psychological than physical. Over time, the majority of al-Asifah forces were incorporated into the Palestinian Liberation Organization armed wing, the Palestinian Liberation Army. Although some units retained the name al-Asifah throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Fatah eventually re-branded its armed wing from al-Asifah to the Al-Aqsa Martyrs' Brigades following the outbreak of the Al-Aqsa Intifada in 2000.\n\nMost Arab countries viewed al-Asifah's guerilla activities as reckless adventurism that could result in an untimely war with Israel. In 1965, the Lebanese Army Command requested that the Lebanese press stop publishing al-Asifah communiques and news of its operations. In January 1966, Arab representatives of the Mixed Armistice Commission demanded an end to activities by al-Asifah on the grounds that they were ineffective and causing Israeli reprisals. Measures to curb such incursions were agreed on. King Hussein of Jordan quietly but forcefully tried to prevent al-Asifah from operating in Jordanian territory. The first one of al-Asifah's men to die in action was killed by Jordanian border patrols while his unit was returning from a mission in Israel.\n\nThe only country to support the position of al-Asifah was Syria. The Baathist regime in power in 1966 had officially adopted the strategy of popular war of liberation as the only adequate method for achieving the liberation of Palestine. They offered to host al-Asifah's headquarters and allowed its members freedom of movement in Syria.\n\nOnly after the pan-Arab defeat in the Six-Day War did leading al-Asifah authorities, including its leader Yasser Arafat, begin to seriously consider the inclusion of women in its militias. Al-Asifah began tacitly recruiting women fighters who participated in armed activities from 1967-68. It was not until 1981 that al-Asifah initiated an overt general mobilization campaign in which hundreds of young female students were being trained in military tactics by al-Asifah. However, very few women who participated in the campaign were actually called upon to serve in actions against Israel. Once the women who participated in these training camps were finished with their training they were generally sent back home and not matriculated into the ranks of al-Asifah.\n\nDalal Mughrabi is one of al-Asifah's most famous female militants. She participated in the 1978 Coastal Road attack in which a group of al-Asifah fighters hijacked a bus, leading to a shoot-out with Israeli authorities. Mughrabi died during the course of the attack, and has since been hailed as an important Palestinian martyr and national hero.\n\n"}
{"id": "56370216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56370216", "title": "Algerian Academy of Amazigh Language", "text": "Algerian Academy of Amazigh Language\n\nThe Algerian Academy of Amazigh Language is the pre-eminent Algerian council for matters pertaining to the Amazigh language. The Academy was officially established in 27 December 2017 by Abdelaziz Bouteflika.\n\nThe President of Algeria Abdelaziz Bouteflika before the Council of Ministers meeting on December 27, 2017, had mandated its Prime Minister Ahmed Ouyahia to implement the directives issued.\n\nThus, Ahmed Ouyahia had convened and chaired an interministerial council on January 8, 2018 devoted to the revitalization of Tamazight's teaching and the preparation of the organic bill for the creation of an Algerian Academy of the Amazigh language.\n\nThis interministerial council had resulted in a series of measures, including the allocation of additional budget posts, to strengthen the teaching of Tamazight in the Algerian education system, and to expand training and research in Tamazight at the level of Algerian universities.\n\nIn addition, an interministerial working group would be set up at the Prime Minister's Office to work on the preparation of a draft bill for the creation of this Language Academy.\n\nThis text will follow the usual course at the level of the Government and the Council of Ministers before reaching the Algerian Parliament in the first half of 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2064645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064645", "title": "Amerasia", "text": "Amerasia\n\nAmerasia was a journal of Far Eastern affairs best known for the 1940s \"Amerasia Affair\" in which several of its staff and their contacts were suspected of espionage and charged with unauthorized possession of government documents.\n\nIn 1937 \"Amerasia\" was founded by Frederick Vanderbilt Field, who also chaired the editorial board, and Philip Jaffe, a naturalized American born in Russia. It was edited by Jaffe and Kate L. Mitchell. Field was the publication's chief financial backer. Jaffe was a friend of Earl Browder, general secretary of the Communist Party of the United States. The journal's staffers and writers included a number Communists or former Communists, including Chi Ch'ao-ting, and at one time Joseph Milton Bernstein, who has been alleged to be a Soviet agent. The journal had a small circulation and sold for fifteen cents a copy. It ceased publication in 1947.\n\nKenneth Wells, an analyst for the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), noticed that an article printed in the January 26, 1945, issue of \"Amerasia\" was almost identical to a 1944 report he had written on Thailand. OSS agents investigated by breaking into the New York offices of \"Amerasia\" on March 11, 1945, where they found hundreds of classified documents from the Department of State, the Navy, and the OSS.\n\nThe OSS notified the State Department, which asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) to investigate. The FBI's investigation indicated that Jaffe and Mitchell had probably obtained the documents from Emanuel Larsen, a State Department employee, and Andrew Roth, a lieutenant with the Office of Naval Intelligence. Other suspects were free-lance reporter Mark Gayn, whose coverage of the war in Asia appeared regularly in \"Collier's\" and \"Time\" magazine and State Department \"China Hand\" John S. Service.\n\nFBI surveillance established that Jaffe met with Service several times in Washington and New York and reported that at one meeting \"Service, according to the microphone surveillance, apparently gave Jaffe a document which dealt with matters the Chinese had furnished to the United States government in confidence.\"\n\nAn FBI summary reported that Jaffe visited the Soviet consulate in New York and that two days after a meeting with Service Jaffe had a four-hour meeting in his home with Communist Party Secretary Earl Browder and Tung Pi-wu, the Chinese Communist representative to the United Nations Charter Conference.\n\nIn carrying out its investigation, the FBI broke into the offices of \"Amerasia\" and the homes of Gayn and Larsen and installed bugs and phone taps.\n\nOn June 6, 1945, the FBI arrested Jaffe, Mitchell, Larsen, Roth, Gayn and Service. Simultaneously, the \"Amerasia\" offices were raided and 1,700 classified State Department, Navy, OSS, and Office of War Information documents were seized.\n\nBecause no evidence was found indicating that any documents had been forwarded directly to a foreign power, the Justice Department decided not to seek an indictment under the Espionage Act. Instead, it sought to indict the six for unauthorized possession and transmittal of government documents. Service, the only State Department officer arrested, had given Jaffe approximately eight documents, copies of his own reports on conditions in China, that represented non-sensitive intelligence that diplomats routinely shared with journalists. The grand jury voted unanimously against indicting him.\n\nThe grand jury indicted Jaffe, Larsen, and Roth. Before the trial began, Larsen's defense attorney learned of the FBI's illegal break-in at Larsen's home. The Justice Department, fearing a loss at trial if evidence were excluded because it was obtained illegally, arranged a deal. Jaffe agreed to plead guilty and pay a fine of $2,500, while Larsen pleaded no contest and was fined $500. The charges against Roth were dropped.\n\nThe \"Amerasia Affair\" became a touchstone for those who wanted to raise alarms about espionage and the possible Communist infiltration of the State Department. Senator Joseph McCarthy often spoke of the case in these terms, maintaining it was a security breach and cover-up of immense proportions.\n\nIn 1946, a House Judiciary subcommittee chaired by Rep. Samuel F. Hobbs and, in 1950, the Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on the Investigation of Loyalty of State Department Employees, commonly known as the Tydings Committee, investigated the \"Amerasia\" case. In 1955, the Senate Internal Security Subcommittee sought the \"Amerasia\" materials from the Justice Department. The records were declassified and the Justice Department delivered 1,260 documents to the Subcommittee in 1956 and 1957.\n\nThe Senate Internal Security Subcommittee published a two-volume report, \"The Amerasia Papers: A Clue to the Catastrophe of China\", in 1970. It ascribed the communist revolution in China in part to the Communist sympathies of the Chinese policy experts in the Foreign Service, known as the \"China Hands\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52234263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52234263", "title": "America's Original Sin", "text": "America's Original Sin\n\nAmerica's Original Sin: Racism, White Privilege, and the Bridge to a New America is a 2015 book by Jim Wallis.\n\nA look into the United States' problem with race and a call to action in overcoming the racism ingrained in American society.\n"}
{"id": "11569281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11569281", "title": "Amnesty International UK Media Awards", "text": "Amnesty International UK Media Awards\n\nThe Amnesty International Media Awards are a unique set of awards which pay tribute to the best human rights journalism in the UK. Kate Allen, Amnesty International UK’s director, said that the awards recognise the \"pivotal role of the UK media industry in informing and shaping public opinion\" and pays tribute to their \"often dangerous work\". The awards acknowledge the creativity, skills and sheer determination that it takes to get the news out in an educational and engaging way.\n\nIn particular, these awards highlight the unique relationship that exists between Amnesty International and the media. Sir Trevor McDonald explained the inextricably linked nature of this relationship: \"Amnesty persists where journalism leaves off. We visit these scenes and then move on. Amnesty has the virtue of sticking with the story and making sure the truth comes out.\"\n\nThe most recent awards ceremony was held on 26 November 2015 at the Barbican Centre in central London. The shortlist and the winners are available below.\n\nAmnesty International has always championed the importance of media in exposing human rights abuses. Amnesty itself began as a media story. In 1961, Peter Benenson, the founder of Amnesty, was so enraged that two Portuguese students were jailed for seven years for toasting to freedom during the autocratic regime of António de Oliveira Salazar, that he wrote a letter to \"The Observer\".\n\nHis \"Appeal for Amnesty\" letter called for the release of six political prisoners from around the world. It began: \"Open your newspapers - any day of the week – and you will find a report from somewhere in the world of someone being imprisoned, tortured or executed because his opinions or religion are unacceptable to his government. The newspaper readers feel a sickening sense of impotence. Yet if these feelings of disgust all over the world could be united into common action, something effective could be done\"\n\nAmnesty began with a sentiment expressed through the media and to celebrate the unique relationship Amnesty shares with the media industry, the Amnesty International UK Media Awards were launched in 1992.\n\nAmnesty believes that by recognising excellence in human rights journalism, journalists and commissioners will be encouraged to increase the quality and quantity of their human rights coverage. Good quality media coverage is important as highlighted by Aung San Suu Kyi, Burmese pro-democracy leader, at the 2011 awards ceremony because it is \"through the media that the rest of the world gets to hear about what we have to undergo\".\n\nIn addition to honouring journalists, Lindsey Hilsum, the Channel 4 News International Editor who was the host of the 2014 awards, emphasises that the Amnesty Awards play a very important role in encouraging editors to allow journalists to cover more obscure stories that are far away and expensive. She said that when: “you point out that you won an Amnesty Award for a similar story a couple of years ago. It makes editors think that they will get some sort of kudos from this, and that it matters within the industry. So I think it’s tremendously important and I think Amnesty is doing a tremendous job by giving us these awards so that we can use them to say: ‘Yes, we’ve got to carry on reporting human rights, it really matters’.\"\n\nHowever, more specifically as pointed out by Amy Mackinnon, 2012 winner of the student award and a current journalist: \"The Amnesty International UK awards are a heartening reminder that, in the right hands, journalism can be a potent force for good.\"\n\nCategories for the 2013 awards are:\n\nThe Gaby Rado Memorial Award, first awarded in May 2004, recognizes a journalist who has been covering national or international human rights stories in broadcast or print media for less than five years.\n\nThe award was established with the help of the family, friends and colleagues of the journalist Gaby Rado, who was found dead in Iraq in 2003. He had been the recipient of three Amnesty Media Awards: in 1996 for a series of reports on Bosnia/Srebrenica, 1998 for coverage of the Muslim minority Uighurs in north-western China and 2002 for his \"moving account of the human cost of the atrocities committed in the Balkan Wars\".\n\nThe Student Human Rights Reporter Award was started in 2010 and first awarded in 2011. Initially the award was run with The NUS (National Union of Students) and \"The Mirror\" newspaper. The award is now run in conjunction with the NUS, and \"The Observer\".<ref name=\"2013 award/\"></ref>\n\nThe award is open to students in further and higher education, with the prize allowing them to work with sponsors to develop real-world reporting and writing experience for two weeks. In 2013 the top prize was a fellowship with the US-based Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting and a $2,000 travel grant to cover an under-reported topic of ones choice.\n\nEach year there is a call for submissions focusing on the areas of human rights work encompassed by Amnesty's mission, which is \"to protect individuals wherever justice, fairness, freedom and truth are denied\".\n\nEntries must have been originally published or broadcast in the year preceding the closing deadline. There is an entry fee to help Amnesty cover the cost of administering the awards. The full criteria is available in the Media Awards section of the Amnesty International UK website, and are detailed on the entry form sent out each year around four months before the ceremony.\n\nThe ceremony is\nheld annually in central London and is attended by around 400 guests, including politicians, celebrities, and prominent figures in the UK\nmedia industry. The host, usually a high-profile member of the UK media, conducts the ceremony and the various awards are presented by representatives from each of the judging panels. Past hosts have included journalist and broadcaster Nick Clarke, journalist and news reader Moira Stuart, international editor of Channel 4 News Lindsey Hilsum and the BBC's Lyse Doucet. The host for the 2015 awards was the British radio and television presenter and journalist Anita Anand. Celebrity guests presenting awards have included Bob Geldof, who presented the Special Award for \"Human Rights Journalism Under Threat\" 2004, won by Kifle Mulat, head of the Ethiopian Free Press Journalists' Association.\n\nThe shortlist for the 2015 awards were: \nThe winners of awards have varied from major news corporations to little known individuals who through their work have brought unknown and unrecognised human rights issues before the world media.\n\nThe winners are chosen by a panel of judges. The judges selected are a diverse group of experts in the media, arts and entertainment industries. Some of the judges for the 2015 awards include BBC contributing editor Bridget Kendall, BuzzFeed political reporter Siraj Datoo, \"Guardian\" journalist Gary Younge, editor of the \"Sunday Telegraph\" Sarah Sands, ITV News lead anchor Nina Hossain, and BBC presenter Naga Munchetty, to name a few. Amnesty International senior staff also take part in the judging process but have no final vote over the choice of winners.\n\nAwards may also be made posthumously, such as the 2012 award to Marie Colvin for her coverage of Syria where she was killed while covering the siege of Homs.\n\nThe winners of 2014 were:\n"}
{"id": "4423343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4423343", "title": "Anti-climb paint", "text": "Anti-climb paint\n\nAnti-climb paint (also known as non-drying paint, anti-intruder paint, anti-vandal grease) is a class of paint consisting of a thick oily coating that is applied with a stiff brush, trowel or by hand using a protective glove. In appearance it is similar to smooth gloss paint when applied but it remains slippery indefinitely thereby preventing any intruder from gaining a foothold.\n\nIt is used to prevent climbing on objects such as lamp posts, walls and fences. It owes its effectiveness to the fact that it is based on a \"non-drying\" oil and keeps the surface greasy and slippery. As an additional advantage, it leaves its mark on the person touching it and hence makes it possible for intruders to be identified.\n\nAnti-climb paint continues to work in hot or cold weather conditions, adhering to the surfaces to which it is applied. It can be used on most building materials. It is particularly effective in preventing climbing on walls, parapets, boundary fences, down pipes, lamp standards and roofs. It has an effective lifetime of around three years, after which a fresh coat is recommended depending on local factors.\n\nTo keep the general public from being affected by the paint, it is usually applied above a certain height on the object being painted. Typically it is applied from a height of 8 ft / 2.4 metres above the ground. The paint is most effective when an intruder has to climb several feet before being stopped by a band of anti-climb paint.\n\n"}
{"id": "1962537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962537", "title": "Attitude change", "text": "Attitude change\n\nAttitudes are associated beliefs and behaviors towards some object. They are not stable, and because of the communication and behavior of other people, are subject to change by social influences, as well as by the individual's motivation to maintain cognitive consistency when cognitive dissonance occurs—when two attitudes or attitude and behavior conflict. Attitudes and attitude objects are functions of affective and cognitive components. It has been suggested that the inter-structural composition of an associative network can be altered by the activation of a single node. Thus, by activating an affective or emotional node, attitude change may be possible, though affective and cognitive components tend to be intertwined.\n\nThere are three bases for attitude change: compliance, identification, and internalization. These three processes represent the different levels of attitude change.\n\nCompliance refers to a change in behavior based on consequences, such as an individual's hopes to gain rewards or avoid punishment from another group or person. The individual does not necessarily experience changes in beliefs or evaluations of an attitude object, but rather is influenced by the social outcomes of adopting a change in behavior. \nThe individual is also often aware that he or she is being urged to respond in a certain way.\n\nCompliance was demonstrated through a series of laboratory experiments known as the Asch experiments. Experiments led by Solomon Asch of Swarthmore College asked groups of students to participate in a \"vision test\". In reality, all but one of the participants were confederates of the experimenter, and the study was really about how the remaining student would react to the confederates' behavior. Participants were asked to pick, out of three line options, the line that is the same length as a sample and were asked to give the answer out loud. Unbeknown to the participants, Asch had placed a number of confederates to deliberately give the wrong answer before the participant. The results showed that 75% of responses were in line with majority influence and were the same answers the confederates picked. Variations in the experiments showed that compliance rates increased as the number of confederates increased, and the plateau was reached with around 15 confederates. The likelihood of compliance dropped with minority opposition, even if only one confederate gave the correct answer. The basis for compliance is founded on the fundamental idea that people want to be accurate and right.\n\nIdentification explains one's change of beliefs and affect in order to be similar to someone one admires or likes. In this case, the individual adopts the new attitude, not due to the specific content of the attitude object, but because it is associated with the desired relationship. Often, children's attitudes on race, or their political party affiliations are adopted from their parents' attitudes and beliefs.\n\nInternalization refers to the change in beliefs and affect when one finds the content of the attitude to be intrinsically rewarding, and thus leads to actual change in beliefs or evaluations of an attitude object. The new attitude or behavior is consistent with the individual's value system, and tends to be merged with the individual's existing values and beliefs. Therefore, behaviors adopted through internalization are due to the content of the attitude object.\n\nThe expectancy-value theory is based on internalization of attitude change. This model states that the behavior towards some object is a function of an individual's intent, which is a function of one's overall attitude towards the action.\n\nEmotion plays a major role in persuasion, social influence, and attitude change. Much of attitude research has emphasised the importance of affective or emotion components. Emotion works hand-in-hand with the cognitive process, or the way we think, about an issue or situation. Emotional appeals are commonly found in advertising, health campaigns and political messages. Recent examples include no-smoking health campaigns (see tobacco advertising) and political campaigns emphasizing the fear of terrorism. Attitude change based on emotions can be seen vividly in serial killers who are faced with major stress. There is considerable empirical support for the idea that emotions in the form of fear arousal, empathy, or a positive mood can enhance attitude change under certain conditions.\n\nImportant factors that influence the impact of emotional appeals include self-efficacy, attitude accessibility, issue involvement, and message/source features. Attitudes that are central to one's being are highly resistant to change while others that are less fixed may change with new experiences or information. A new attitude (e.g. to time-keeping or absenteeism or quality) may challenge existing beliefs or norms so creating a feeling of psychological discomfort known as cognitive dissonance. It is difficult to measure attitude change since attitudes may only be inferred and there might be significant divergence between those publicly declared and privately held. Self-efficacy is a perception of one's own human agency; in other words, it is the perception of our own ability to deal with a situation. It is an important variable in emotional appeal messages because it dictates a person's ability to deal with both the emotion and the situation. For example, if a person is not self-efficacious about their ability to impact the global environment, they are not likely to change their attitude or behaviour about global warming.\n\nAffective forecasting, otherwise known as intuition or the prediction of emotion, also impacts attitude change. Research suggests that predicting emotions is an important component of decision making, in addition to the cognitive processes. How we feel about an outcome may override purely cognitive rationales.\nIn terms of research methodology, the challenge for researchers is measuring emotion and subsequent impacts on attitude. Since we cannot see into the brain, various models and measurement tools have been constructed to obtain emotion and attitude information. Measures may include the use of physiological cues like facial expressions, vocal changes, and other body rate measures. For instance, fear is associated with raised eyebrows, increased heart rate and increased body tension. Other methods include concept or network mapping, and using primes or word cues.\n\nMany dual process models are used to explain the affective (emotional) and cognitive processing and interpretations of messages, as well as the different depths of attitude change. These include the heuristic-systematic model of information processing and the elaboration likelihood model.\n\nThe heuristic-systematic model of information processing describes two depths in the processing of attitude change, systematic processing and heuristic processing. In this model information is either processed in a high-involvement and high-effort systematic way, or information is processed through shortcuts known as \"heuristics\". For example, emotions are affect-based heuristics, in which feelings and gut-feeling reactions are often used as shortcuts.\n\nSystematic processing occurs when individuals are motivated and have high cognition to process a message. Individuals using systematic processing are motivated to pay attention and have the cognitive ability to think deeply about a message; they are persuaded by the content of the message, such as the strength or logic of the argument. Motivation can be determined by many factors, such as how personally relevant the topic is, and cognitive ability can be determined by how knowledgeable an individual is on the message topic, or whether or not there is a distraction in the room. Individuals who receive a message through systematic processing usually internalize the message, resulting in a longer and more stable attitude change.\n\nAccording to the heuristic-systematic model of information processing, people are motivated to use systematic processing when they want to achieve a \"desired level of confidence\" in their judgments. There are factors that have been found to increase the use of systematic processing; these factors are associated with either decreasing an individual's actual confidence or increasing an individual's perceived confidence. These factors may include framing persuasive messages in an unexpected manner; self-relevancy of the message.\n\nSystematic processing has been shown to be beneficial in social influence settings. Systematic reasoning has been shown to be successful in producing more valid solutions during group discussions and greater solution accuracy. Shestowsky's (1998) research in dyad discussions revealed that the individual in the dyad who had high motivation and high need in cognition had the greater impact on group decisions.\n\nHeuristic processing occurs when individuals have low motivation and/or low cognitive ability to process a message. Instead of focusing on the argument of the message, recipients using heuristic processing focus on more readily accessible information and other unrelated cues, such as the authority or attractiveness of the speaker. Individuals who process a message through heuristic processing do not internalize the message, and thus any attitude change resulting from the persuasive message is temporary and unstable.\n\nFor example, people are more likely to grant favors if reasons are provided. A study shows that when people said, \"Excuse me, I have five pages to xerox. May I use the copier?\" they received a positive response of 60%. The statement, \"Excuse me, I have five pages to xerox. I am in a rush. May I use the copier?\" produced a 95% success rate.\n\nHeuristic processing examples include social proof, reciprocity, authority, and liking.\n\n\nThe elaboration likelihood model is similar in concept to and shares many ideas with other dual processing models, such as the heuristic-systematic model of information processing. In the elaboration likelihood model, cognitive processing is the central route and affective/emotion processing is often associated with the peripheral route. The central route pertains to an elaborate cognitive processing of information while the peripheral route relies on cues or feelings. The ELM suggests that true attitude change only happens through the central processing route that incorporates both cognitive and affective components as opposed to the more heuristics-based peripheral route. This suggests that motivation through emotion alone will not result in an attitude change.\n\nCognitive dissonance, a theory originally developed by Festinger (1957), is the idea that people experience a sense of guilt or uneasiness when two linked cognitions are inconsistent, such as when there are two conflicting attitudes about a topic, or inconsistencies between one's attitude and behavior on a certain topic. The basic idea of the Cognitive Dissonance Theory relating to attitude change, is that people are motivated to reduce dissonance which can be achieved through changing their attitudes and beliefs. Cooper & Fazio's (1984) have also added that cognitive dissonance does not arise from any simple cognitive inconsistency, but rather results from freely chosen behavior that may bring about negative consequences. These negative consequences may be threats to the consistency, stability, predictability, competence, moral goodness of the self-concept, or violation of general self-integrity.\n\nResearch has suggested multiple routes that cognitive dissonance can be reduced. Self-affirmation has been shown to reduce dissonance, however it is not always the mode of choice when trying to reduce dissonance. When multiple routes are available, it has been found that people prefer to reduce dissonance by directly altering their attitudes and behaviors rather than through self-affirmation. People who have high levels of self-esteem, who are postulated to possess abilities to reduce dissonance by focusing on positive aspects of the self, have also been found to prefer modifying cognitions, such as attitudes and beliefs, over self-affirmation. A simple example of cognitive dissonance resulting in attitude change would be when a heavy smoker learns that his sister died young from lung cancer due to heavy smoking as well, this individual experiences conflicting cognitions: the desire to smoke, and the knowledge that smoking could lead to death and a desire not to die. In order to reduce dissonance, this smoker could change his behavior (i.e. stop smoking), change his attitude about smoking (i.e. smoking is harmful), or retain his original attitude about smoking and modify his new cognition to be consistent with the first one--\"I also work out so smoking won't be harmful to me\". Thus, attitude change is achieved when individuals experience feelings of uneasiness or guilt due to cognitive dissonance, and actively reduce the dissonance through changing their attitude, beliefs, or behavior relating in order to achieve consistency with the inconsistent cognitions.\n\nCarl Hovland and his band of persuasion researchers learned a great deal during World War 2 and later at Yale about the process of attitude change.\n\nThe process of how people change their own attitudes has been studied for years. Belief rationalization has been recognized as an important aspect to understand this process. The stability of people's past attitudes can be influenced if they hold beliefs that are inconsistent with their own behaviors. The influence of past behavior on current attitudes is stable when little information conflicts with the behavior. Alternatively, people's attitudes may lean more radically toward the prior behavior if the conflict makes it difficult to ignore, and forces them to rationalize their past behavior. For example, if you believe that Greece is a beautiful country and that the people there are very hardworking, then your belief will be stable or even become reinforced when you visit the country and are amazed by its beauty. However, when you interact with local Greeks, you realize they are in actuality not as hard-working as you had imagined. This inconsistency becomes difficult to ignore once it stands out.\n\nAttitudes are often restructured at the time people are asked to report them. As a result, inconsistencies between the information that enters into the reconstruction and the original attitudes can produce changes in prior attitudes, whereas consistency between these elements often elicits stability in prior attitudes. Individuals need to resolve the conflict between their own behaviors and the subsequent beliefs. However, people usually align themselves with their attitudes and beliefs instead of their behaviors. More importantly, this process of resolving people's cognitive conflicts that emerges cuts across both self-perception and dissonance even when the associated effect may only be strong in changing prior attitudes\n\nHuman judgment is comparative in nature. Departing from identifying people's need to justify their own beliefs in the context of their own behaviors, psychologists also believe that people have the need to carefully evaluate new messages on the basis of whether these messages support or contradict with prior messages, regardless of whether they can recall the prior messages after they reach a conclusion. This comparative processing mechanism is built on \"information-integration theory\" and \"social judgement theory\". Both of these theories have served to model people's attitude change in judging the new information while they haven't adequately explained the influential factors that motivate people to integrate the information.\n\nMore recent work in the area of persuasion has further explored this \"comparative processing\" from the perspective of focusing on comparing between different sets of information on one single issue or object instead of simply making comparisons among different issues or objects. As previous research demonstrated, analyzing information on one target product may trigger less impact of comparative information than comparing this product with the same product under competing brands.\n\nWhen people compare different sets of information on one single issue or object, the effect of people's effort to compare new information with prior information seemed to correlate with the perceived strength of the new, strong information when considered jointly with the initial information. Comparison processes can be enhanced when prior evaluations, associated information, or both are accessible. People will simply construct a current judgment based on the new information or adjust the prior judgment when they are not able to retrieve the information from prior messages. The impact this comparative process can have on people's attitude change is mediated by changes in the strength of new information perceived by receivers. The effects of comparison on judgment change were mediated by changes in the perceived strength of the information. These findings above have wide range of applications in social marketing, political communication, and health promotion. For example, designing an advertisement that is counteractive against an existing attitude towards a behavior or policy is perhaps most effective if the advertisement uses the same format, characters, or music of ads associated with the initial attitudes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4787951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4787951", "title": "Buckshot War", "text": "Buckshot War\n\nThe Buckshot War was the outbreak of unrest in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania that transpired after the Pennsylvania gubernatorial and legislative elections in 1838 when both the Whig and Democratic parties claimed control over the Pennsylvania House of Representatives.\n\nAfter being elected governor of Pennsylvania in 1835, Anti-Masonic and Whig candidate Joseph Ritner served a successful term. With the cooperation his unofficial advisor Thaddeus Stevens and Secretary of Commonwealth Thomas H. Burrows, Ritner used Public Works as a political instrument via the government owning all internal improvements hence providing thousands jobs. Thus it came as a shock to Whigs and Anti-Masons that Ritner was defeated for re-election by the Democratic Party candidate David Rittenhouse Porter. The campaign was considered very bitter, with Porter winning by a slim majority of 5,496 in a total vote of 250,146. This election was significant in regards to financial patronage as, if the sitting governor and his party could gain control both branches of legislature, they would have the ability to control all appointments at a state level. The Whigs and Anti-Masons set out to contest Porter's election, and having already gained a majority in the Pennsylvania Senate, they only needed to secure a majority in the House of Representatives to further their aims.\n\nIn order to secure the majority in the House of Representatives, Burrows, who was also the Chairman of the Whig Committee, used claims made by Charles J. Ingersoll to maneuver a tactical plan. Ingersoll, a Democrat, was defeated in Congress and blamed his defeat on Whig frauds in the Northern Liberties District (Now known simply as Northern Liberties) in Philadelphia. He was able to persuade the Board of Return judges to disregard all 5000 votes from that polling place. The seven Whig judges on the Board, however, met separately and made certificates to their party candidates in Congress and in the state legislature. They recognized the four Whig candidates in the Northern Liberties District, which in turn would give the majority of the House of Representatives to the Whigs. This majority was crucial to the party. With it they would have control of both branches of the Legislature. This would allow them the ability to control all appointments if Porter's election was successfully contested. When the returns were received by Burrows, he immediately claimed them as the legal and official returns and sent them to the House of Representatives.\n\nThe House of Representatives met on the night of December 4, where the Clerk of the House, Francis R. Shunk began with the usual roll call. However, after the names of the members from Philadelphia were read, Charles Pray, a claimed member from Philadelphia said that the four members from the Northern Liberties District were not legally elected. Afterwards, he produced his own set of election returns, that had been legally certified. The Whigs demanded that the names of the four Philadelphia members be given their seats. On the other side, the Democrats claimed that Burrows had prepared legal returns that only benefited his party. In response to these two sets of returns being produced, Thaddeus Stevens, the leader of the Whig and Anti-Masonic party in Legislature, made a motion that the House proceed to elect a speaker. Amidst the confusion the two bodies elected a speaker, with the Democrats electing William Hopkins on a roll-call and the party behind Stevens electing Thomas S.S Cunningham by a viva voce vote. After both parties adjourned until the next day, Steven's party went to the Senate Chamber, where Whigs had the majority.\n\nWhile at the Senate, the atmosphere became that of negativity towards Stevens and his party. While organizing the chamber, a contested seat caught the attention of the large crowd surrounding the ground. Charles Brown, a Democrat, contested the seat of James Hanna, a Whig, on the account of gross fraud. However, the speaker of the House Charles B. Penrose admitted Hanna to his seat, which subsequently outraged Democrats in the crowd for not recognizing or legitimatizing Brown's allegation. It was claimed that the crowd could be heard shouting, \"Kill Burrows!\", \"Kill Stevens!\", \"Kill Penrose!\" After much aggravation, the crowd broke through the bar of the Senate and headed towards the three Whigs. It was at this time that they had already escaped through the back window of the Senate, in fear of their safety. It is believed that the riot was led by the infamous \"Balty\" Sowers, a gang member from Philadelphia. Democrats denied any involvement with Sowers, however, a variety of sources state that his mission was to assassinate Stevens, Burrows and Penrose- all avid Whig enthusiasts. Hence, suspicions arose around whether Democrats in Pennsylvania were trying to sabotage their opponents.\n\nAfter the commotion in the Senate Chamber, both parties still had no quorum, and remained at odds. The party under Stevens was forced to stay at Wilson's Hotel for their meetings, and out of fear continued aggravation, Governor Ritner demanded militia be brought in to the Capitol. In the fourth article of the United States Constitution, it declares that every state in the Union will be provided aid against domestic violence. Thus, Ritner looked at a federal level for assistance. He asked federal troop leader Captain Sumner to bring his troops to Harrisburg, however, the Captain refused on the grounds that the commotion was strictly a result of the political issues belonging to the state. When Ritner tried again to insist for help, this time from President Martin Van Buren himself, he was once again refused, with the president stating that interfering was beyond the federal government's legal duties and would be considered improper as it would be favouring one political party over the other. In addition, the riots had not resulted in any sort of physical violence and consequently did not appear to be a threat to the welfare of Pennsylvania's citizens. Just as in the Dorr Rebellion, when President John Tyler refused to send troops to Rhode Island after the insurrection led by Thomas Wilson Dorr, the federal government refused to intervene in the Buckshot War because the domestic violence did not seem to be of a great enough threat, and therefore should be dealt with by the state itself. Thus, the Buckshot War was not just a political issue within its boundaries, but it also addressed the role that the federal government played in less-threatening state political issues, which was very minimal.\n\nAfter being denied federal troops, Ritner then ordered the state militia under the command of General Robert Patterson to control any violent mobs. Without being supplied any proper ammunition from federal sources, Ritner ordered that the state troops be given thirteen rounds of buckshot cartridges, giving the incident its name. His plan was disrupted, however, when a group of citizens under the command of General Diller, member of the Committee of Safety, took control of the militia's arsenal and began using it against the Governor and his supporters. It was at this time that support for Ritner and Stevens had declined. The proprietor of Wilson's hotel closed his door to Cunningham's party, with three of the party's members- Chester Butler, John Montelius and John Sturdevant, leaving later that week to go to Hopkins's party. As a result of this switch, the Hopkins party now had a quorum, and slowly the latter party declined, with only the four members from Philadelphia and Thaddeus Stevens claiming its legality. On December 25, 1838, the Senate recognized that the Hopkins party was the legal body of the House of Representatives, subsequently ending the Buckshot War.\n\nThe Buckshot War increased Democratic support in Pennsylvania, which is reflected in the Pennsylvania gubernatorial election of 1841. During this election, Porter was re-elected over the Whig candidate, John Banks. The election demonstrates the sentiments that the state citizens felt over the controversial events in December 1838. In Burrow's plan to use a second set of returns made by Whig judges and Ritner's call for state militia to protect his party, both men did what they could to protect the interests of their own party, rather than thinking about the state citizens as a whole. As a result of their un-democratic ideals, the gubernatorial election reflects how citizens decided to turn their support to the opposing party.\n\nAdams, James Truslow. \"Dictionary of American History\". New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1940.\n"}
{"id": "207442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207442", "title": "Café com leite politics", "text": "Café com leite politics\n\n\"Café com leite\" politics (, \"coffee with milk\") was a term that referred to the domination of Brazilian politics under the Old Republic (1889–1930) by the landed gentries of São Paulo (dominated by the coffee industry) and Minas Gerais (dominated by dairy interests). São Paulo's coffee interests were by far the stronger of the pair.\n\nThe name alludes to the popular coffee beverage café com leite, \"coffee with milk\", referring to the states' respectively dominant industry.\n\nUnder Brazil's Old Republic, the patron-client political machines of the countryside enabled agrarian oligarchs, especially coffee planters in the dominant state of São Paulo, to dominate state structures to their advantage, particularly the weak central state structures that effectively devolved power to local agrarian oligarchies.\n\nUnder the Old Republic, the politics of \"café com leite\" rested on the domination of the republic's politics by the states of São Paulo and Minas Gerais — the largest in terms of population and wealth. One can illustrate the extent of that domination by noting that the first presidents of the republic were from São Paulo and thereafter succeeded by an alternation between the outgoing governors of the two leading states in the presidency.\n\nThe politics of \"café com leite\" rested on an oligarchic system known as \"coronelismo\". Known as the \"rule of the colonels\", this term referred to the classic boss system under which the control of patronage was centralized in the hands of a locally dominant oligarch known as a \"colonel\", particularly under Brazil's Old Republic, who would dispense favors in return for loyalty.\n\nMeanwhile, other states resented this grip on the central state by São Paulo and Minas Gerais. The severe drought of 1877 in the Northeast and the ensuing economic collapse — along with the abolition of slavery in the 1880s — propelled the mass labor migration of emancipated slaves and other peasants from Northeast to Southeast, precipitating the decay of established sugar oligarchies of the North. With the concurrent growth of coffee in the Southeast, São Paulo, now emerging as the central state, began to increase in power under the Old Republic. Northeastern landowners bitterly opposed rival oligarchs in São Paulo, explaining their role in the 1930 Revolution.\n\nIn time, growing trade, commerce, and industry in São Paulo would serve to undermine the domination of the republic's politics by the landed gentries of the same state (dominated by the coffee industry) and Minas Gerais (dominated by dairy interests) — known then by observers as the politics of \"café com leite\". Under Getúlio Vargas, ushered into power by the middle class and agrarian oligarchies of peripheral states resentful of the coffee oligarchs, Brazil moved toward a more centralized state structure that has served to regularize and modernize state governments, moving toward more universal suffrage and secret ballots, gradually freeing Brazilian politics from the grips of \"coronelismo\".\n\nHowever, the legacy of \"café com leite\" is still strongly visible. Brazilian politics is still known for being highly patrimonial, oligarchic, and personalistic and São Paulo and Minas Gerais remain the country's dominant states.\n\nThis nomination was given in the mid 20th century by History teachers to memorize the two states more easily, but the oligarchs from Minas Gerais were also coffee farmers, and dairy was not significant to the economical landscape.\n"}
{"id": "20354615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20354615", "title": "Central National Revolutionary Committee", "text": "Central National Revolutionary Committee\n\nThe Central National Revolutionary Committee (ÚNRV) was an anti-fascist resistance organization in Slovakia during the Second World War. The idea of forming the ÚNRV had been launched by the underground leadership of the Communist Party of Slovakia in late 1941. The committee was constituted, by cooperation between communists and bourgeois anti-fascists, in March 1942. In its initial stage ÚNRV failed to take a prominent role in Slovak politics. The committee was however revived by the Communist Party, as the party opted for a broader approach in building a national front. By April–May 1943, the ÚNRV was crushed by the state apparatus.\n"}
{"id": "13626339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13626339", "title": "Chapter II of the United Nations Charter", "text": "Chapter II of the United Nations Charter\n\nChapter II of the United Nations Charter deals with membership to the United Nations (UN) organization. Membership is open to the original signatories and \"all other peace-loving states\" that accept the terms and obligations set forth in the UN Charter and, \"in the judgment of the Organization, are able and willing to carry out these obligations\". According to Chapter II of the UN Charter, in order to be admitted to the UN, a country must first be recommended by the UN Security Council and then approved by vote of the UN General Assembly. In addition, the admission must not be opposed by any of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council (China, France, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States), sometimes referred to as the Permanent Five or P5.\n\nAdmission to membership in the UN is regarded as an important indicator of sovereignty and legitimate statehood, especially for microstates. Some states have governments that are unofficially recognized as independent, such as Taiwan, but have not been admitted to the UN due to a veto by a P5 member. During the Cold War, the United States and Soviet Union did not allow rival blocs to be admitted to the UN. When they began letting those countries join, it led to a period of great expansion of UN membership, especially as the number colonies gaining independence increased.\n\nChapter II also provides for the suspension and expulsion of member states, and for the restoration of rights, by the UN General Assembly upon recommendation from the UN Security Council. Taiwan has questioned the legality of UN General Assembly Resolution 2758, which declared China as the legitimate holder of the Chinese seat, since the resolution expelled the Taiwanese delegation without a recommendation initiated by the UN Security Council (of which Taiwan was a member). In 2005, Israel called for Iran to be expelled from the UN based on the position that Iran had \"persistently violated\" the principles of the UN Charter by calling for Israel's destruction, thus meeting the criteria for expulsion defined in Chapter II, Article 6.\n"}
{"id": "44448769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44448769", "title": "Charlotte Three", "text": "Charlotte Three\n\nThe Charlotte Three, consisting of T.J. Reddy, James Grant, and Charles Parker, were a group of men arrested and convicted in Charlotte, North Carolina for the burning of Lazy B Stables, a horse stable. The burning took place on September 24, 1968, one year after Lazy B Stables was integrated. All three men were arrested and implicated in the arson on December 1971, a full three years after the incident. The men were eventually convicted for their presumed actions, and were unsuccessful in having their appeals accepted, with the Supreme Court rejecting their motions. They were all well known radical activists in Charlotte and some people claimed their arrest was aimed at stopping their political motives. Many observers believed that this case was a representation of the still heavily racist Southern United States of the 1970s, and the various underhanded methods prosecutors were willing to utilize to obtain convictions against African Americans. The Charlotte Three were victims in the eyes of some, of an American South that was still reeling from widespread integration and general mistrust in Black affairs. The men were held against their will incorrectly not for crimes that they did not commit, but because of the social change they worked hard to attain. Finally, in 1979, North Carolina Jim Hunt commuted all three men's sentences after a vigorous campaign by state, national, and international activists on their behalf.\n\nCharlotte, North Carolina had a reputation as a forward-thinking city in that it wasn't supposed to have the same racial discrimination that the cities in the Deep South had. Charlotte was called a \"New South city\" but many of its residents still harbored the same racial discrimination, and \"clung to Jim Crow segregation\" as strongly as residents of Mobile, Alabama and Jackson, Mississippi, stereotypical anti-black cities. African American dissent towards racism was however very prevalent in Charlotte, as the landmark case Brown v. Board of Education arose from a school district around Charlotte, and Reginald Hawkins spearheaded protests against segregation in the cities public and private institutions. When residents in Charlotte in January 1965 filed the court case Swann v. Charlotte-Mecklenburg Board of Education, the car of civil rights leader \"Julius Chambers was blown to bits\" and a year later, \"bombs exploded at the homes of four more civil rights leaders\".\n\nOne of the residents of Charlotte who had experienced much racial discrimination in his lifetime was T.J. Reddy, who was enrolled in the University of North Carolina at Charlotte. T.J. had been a poet and playwright who used his talents to help him pursue his goal of being an urban activist. He was with his girlfriend Vicky Minar, when he \"happened upon a particularly humiliating experience of racial injustice\" at the Lazy B Stables. In September 1967, Reddy, his girlfriend, and a group of friends went to Lazy B to enjoy their free time by horseback riding. When the group arrived at the stable, they were rejected from being able to ride since they were black. Since Reddy did not want to make a scene, he decided to leave and not do anything about the social injustice he just encountered.\n\nAfter \"following traditional protest strategies\", the group returned mixed, with whites and blacks, and were allowed to ride the horses the next day. Reddy was a man who did not like to be treated unfairly or in a derogatory manner, as evidenced by his poetry \"ain't nothing funny bout a cracker/calling me a n*****\". However, he would not seek to create fights when unnecessary, as he liked to \"keep his nose/just above\" implying that he would not resort to arguments when the matter was cleared. Charles Parker, another black man who accompanied Reddy to the stable, was able to ride in public while being watched by the media, thus Reddy believed the matter to be closed. Reddy left the incident because in his mind; \"management had a change of heart and was willing to allow black people to ride\". Parker had been an honors student at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte and was engaged in antiwar activism through his clubs and activities, and was linked to the movement of \"black consciousness\".\nAnother Civil Rights activist who was charged and convicted in the Lazy B Stables case was Dr. James Earl Grant, a dedicated activist against racial discrimination. Though Grant was from Hartford, Connecticut and received his doctorate degree from Penn State, he was very active in the South's racial playing field, especially that of North Carolina's. On May 11, 1970, three white males murdered a black man, Henry Marrow, a father of three children who lived in Oxford, North Carolina. When news spread that Henry had been murdered, Blacks from across the country, along with Grant, decided they were fed up and organized protests. Most wanted to obtain justice through the tried and true legal system, however a group of \"black Vietnam veterans\" took matters into their own hands and decided to bomb white businesses in Oxford. Neither Grant nor Reddy were involved in the acts of violence against the white owned businesses, but had their fates sealed when a police officer decided to pull over a car driven by two African Americans while exiting Oxford.\n\nOn May 15, 1970, police officers in Oxford, NC arrested Alfred Hood and David Washington for possessing \"seven sticks of dynamite, two rifles, and a pistol\". The two were friends affiliated with James Grant and told authorities later that Grant had told the two to drive up to Charlotte with their supplies. The City Manager of Charlotte, Ragland, remembered Grant as someone who \"was an expert in starting fires…he could start a fire in a rainstorm\". Hood and Washington were subsequently jailed for possessing such deadly weapons, however after a short period of time, the two \"jumped bail, and fled to Canada\" where they were eventually returned on warrants. When the two were apprehended a second time, they decided to cut a deal with the prosecutor that was perceived in the black community as indicative of the social climate of the time period. The men had their general living expenditures paid for, and after their testimony, would be relocated completely all on the government's dime.\n\nWhat Hood and Washington offered for this unique package was the ability to bring in one of the most influential leaders for the movement of reducing racism, James Grant. They testified in April 1972 that Grant had \"encouraged them to skip bond\" and even helped them \"to cross the border into Canada\" so that the two could not be extradited back to the United States. The prosecutor had believed that Grant had \"trained these little kids…they were the ones doing the big stuff\" while Grant was able to sit \"behind the scenes\". Grant ended up being convicted of conspiracy and helping out fugitives, and was sentenced to ten years in a federal penitentiary.\n\nSince the prosecutor wanted more from Hood and Washington, he pressed them further, and allegedly started to offer the two men cash for their support in bringing justice to the Charlotte Three for their presumed role in the burning of Lazy B Stables. Assistant Attorney General Robert C. Mardian \"approved a deal giving Hood and Washington cash payments of four thousand dollars each\" which was to help persuade the two men to say what the prosecutor wanted to hear. What the prosecutor wanted was to be able obtain a conviction of the Charlotte Three who were all civil rights leaders and proponents for the end of racism in Charlotte. The three were indicted in January 1972 and this set off a racial firestorm.\n\nThe prosecutor however denies this claim and rather implies that Hood and Washington were willing to testify against the Charlotte Three on their own without any outside pressures or rewards. The prosecutor asked the pair \"whose driving around in a Cadillac while you're stuck in here\" and that the leaders are not doing anything while the pair are \"stuck in here paying the price\". The FBI also believed the truth of what Hood and Washington said in that Charlotte FBI Agent Koon wanted to transform Grant into an informant on his other troublemaking friends, but that did not end up panning out.\n\nWith three black defendants, the lawyers for the Charlotte Three requested that since the grand jury \"excludes blacks from participation since it is derived from voter registration laws\", the case should be dropped. Judge Snepp however refuted that point, as he claimed that blacks could register to vote as they pleased. The defendants' lawyers saw this as a systematic attempt to stop blacks from being able to register to vote. At the time, black voters had to take voter tests, unlike their white counterparts, implying an unfair situation. Similarly, the prosecutor's office decided to appoint no black or Jewish jurors, with a near deaf old black lady as the lone exception. Since the defense had to waste all their challenges and objections that they are legally allowed to have by removing clearly incompetent jury members, they were left at a considerable disadvantage in the courtroom.\n\nReporters and journalists questioned the evidence and workings of the case. Even though the white prosecutor's office did follow all the laws and did not do anything illegal, \"the court empaneled a seriously prejudiced jury of white Southern Baptists\". During the trial, the only real piece of evidence other than the falsified witness testimony by Hood and Washington was a picture of a bottle that was presumed to be an unused firebomb. This bottle however was never actually placed into the evidence files of the case since it was mysteriously \"lost\" by the fire marshals, and that the \"original photograph was staged\". Though there seemed to be very little evidence to support the prosecutor's claims, the jury returned a guilty verdict within one hour of the case's arguments ending. T.J. Reddy was sentenced to 20 years, James Grant got 25 years, and Charles Parker received 10 years (8).\n\nThe sentencing of the Charlotte Three emphasized a clear dichotomy: the white jurors wanted to be fair in trial, but were worried of the social repercussions that would come about from supporting these black men. There was a fear of a \"black revolution\" in the South at that time, and by imprisoning the leaders of black movements across the South, whites were able to contain that movement and stymie it. Many saw the decision as one that favored the persecuting of black leaders for their black revolution ideas, in that Judge Snepp sentenced Grant to 25 years due to his education.\n\nJudge Snepp said that since Grant was so educated, with a doctorate, he \"showed no gratitude to society\" and since he was so well educated, was \"an extremely dangerous revolutionary beyond rehabilitation.\" Reddy was in the eyes of Snepp, dangerous since he was a poet and able to use his talents to appeal to the heart of blacks and revolutionize their ways of thinking. Snepp gave Parker the lightest sentence since he was not deemed as harmful as the rest, as Parker was thought to be an \"easily led young Black dupe.\"\n\nSnepp knew that Hood and Washington \"are not exactly A-1 citizens\" yet he decided to use their testimony as a key component in the conviction of the Charlotte Three. The credibility given to Washington and his statements about Grant and the Charlotte Three were not questioned during the trial, but should have been. He was the \"prime suspect in five murders in the Charlotte area\" and yet his testimony was used to put men with clean criminal backgrounds in jail. With crime rates rising, famed philosopher Angela Davis's publicized fight with the FBI, George Jackson's \"meteoric rise to militant fame as…Black Party Minister of Defense\", and the University of Wisconsin's math building bombing, the crimes of Washington were overlooked. They were not taken seriously enough since the aforementioned crimes were politically motivated, however Washington's were not, and as put by the District Attorney Tom Moore; \"sometimes you must go to hell to get the devil\". Washington was said to have used \"heroin, LSD, and large quantities of alcohol and marijuana\" which cast considerable doubt on his credibility.\n\nThough the Charlotte Three had been convicted and imprisoned, the general support from Charlotte and the members in the men's' lives never stopped. In the Herald Journal, Grant's father mentions that there were \"vigils…held in front of the historic Old State House in Hartford…to keep the case alive\". The men felt they were representing how racially charged Charlotte had become, and its residents did not want the city to be tainted by corrupt judicial officers. In the Black Panther newspaper, a letter campaign by the North Carolina Political Prisoners Committee started to prosper. Local residents were urged to send letters in support of the Charlotte Three to Governor Hunt of North Carolina in an effort to have the men's sentences commuted.\n\nAdditionally, Reddy received support from his fellow poets, such as Sandra Beck of Charlotte who wrote that she had met \"few people so creatively and constructively oriented\" and who gave his encouragement to many \"young writers and authors\". Ironically, Reddy was labeled as one who was constructively oriented and creative, yet he was accused of demolishing a construction through the brute force method of arson, which has no creativity to it whatsoever. He also had the whole support of the state's art community \"who strongly backed the black poet\".\n\nJames Grant had received support from individuals in both the North and the South, including Connecticut Governor Ella Grasso, who called her counterpart in North Carolina on Grant's behalf. Grant also had the support of famous Southern prison rights leader L.C. Dorsey who claimed that Grant's imprisonment was a result of wanting to disagree with \"a senseless war, racial oppression at home, and the plight of those who had taxation without representation\".\n\nGrant was eventually granted parole from Governor Hunt of North Carolina reducing his sentence, and Reddy and Parker were also set free. When Grant learned that he was about to be freed, since he had \"made progress towards rehabilitation\" in the eyes of the Governor instead of a full pardon, he said that \"people have paid higher prices\" than he has, and that he is fine with whatever decision he is granted. The sentences were not pardoned however by Governor Hunt, but rather commuted, implying that the men were still guilty of the burning in the eyes of the judicial system.\n\nThe Charlotte Three case was an event that epitomized the larger issues of politics, race, and the civil rights movement in the South. The commuting of the sentences for the men may not have actually been purely due to the reasons publicly stated, but instead for hidden political ones. In 1979, an election year, there was a lot of turmoil and Governor Hunt and the Democratic party were worried about the backlash that would ensue if the men were still imprisoned at the time of the election. Herbert N. Lape who was serving as the vice-chairman of the North Carolina state democratic party stated in a letter to Hunt that many people in the state view \"the Charlotte Three [case] as [a] primarily white witch [hunt] that involved racial bigotry\". A secretary by the name of Joseph Grimsley also stated in a memo to Governor Hunt, \"[the] state's repressive image is beginning to spill over in this administration to yours personally\".\n\nThe administration was in a position where it had to save face by reducing the sentences or else face the possibility of losing control to another party. The judge had originally given out the long sentences because he wanted to show that it was \"the smashing of a dangerous Black revolution plot\". He hoped to set an example of the men, as he was worried of more of these plots in the future.\n\nThe case of the Charlotte Three was not something that was entirely unique; rather, as historian John Schutz argued, it was the ordinary in the mid 1900s South. By persecuting \"black leaders for conventional crimes\", the state could follow \"civilized\" methods that would instead of cause violence, put the leader in jail where he could no longer do any more leading. Expert Raymond Michalowski believes these persecutions of blacks were similar to those of the KKK or other \"night riders of decades past\" but instead of illegal henchmen carrying out the attacks, legal judges and prosecutors were doing so in the courts. By charging the leaders with crimes, the state was able to make it seem like the leaders were not as viable as they claimed to be. This helped to mute some of the public support the leaders may have originally garnered. Though the South seemed to have overtly fixed its race problem after the passage of federal civil rights legislation in 1964-65, it was covertly persecuting Black revolutionary leaders. The persecutions were not taking place out on the streets through public lynching as in times past, but instead through illegal backdoor deals supported by the judicial system.\n\n"}
{"id": "29569263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29569263", "title": "Demon Sheep", "text": "Demon Sheep\n\nThe Demon Sheep or Demon Sheep ad is a political ad created as part of Carly Fiorina's 2010 campaign for the United States Senate. The ad gained international attention for its characterization of Fiorina's opponent as a wolf in sheep's clothing, portrayed by a man wearing a sheep costume with glowing red eyes. Although opinion remains divided as to the effectiveness of the ad in supporting Fiorina's campaign, it is widely regarded as one of the most bizarre and memorable political advertisements ever devised.\n\nIn 2010, Carly Fiorina, a businesswoman then best known as the former chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard from 1999 to 2005, entered the race for the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate seat then held by Democratic Senator Barbara Boxer. Among her opponents was Tom Campbell, a former congressman who had served five terms in the U.S. House of Representatives between 1989 and 2001, representing California's 12th and 15th congressional districts. Early polling suggested that Campbell held a substantial lead over Fiorina. For a promotional ad opposing Campbell, the Fiorina campaign turned to Fred Davis, an advertising executive who had gained notoriety for his 2008 ad depicting then presidential candidate Barack Obama as a celebrity akin to Britney Spears and Paris Hilton. The ad, released on Fiorina's campaign website in February 2010, quickly gained international attention.\n\nThe ad, which runs about three minutes and twenty seconds, opens with an idyllic scene of sheep running and grazing in a sunny meadow, as a female narrator extols the supposed virtues of fiscally conservative politicians: \"purity, piety: our fiscal conservative leaders. Men we admire; aspire to be: wholesome, honorable, true believers. Men like Tom Campbell, who would never lead us astray; his pedestal, so high...\" From behind the hillside, a cut-out animation in the style of Terry Gilliam depicts a sheep rising into the sky on top of a Doric column. Suddenly, the sky darkens, storm clouds roll in, and lightning strikes the pillar, which vanishes. The sheep then tumbles end-over-end in slow motion, as ominous music begins to play, and the original narrator gives way to a stern male voice (veteran actor Robert Davi), questioning Campbell's record and credentials as a fiscal conservative.\n\nThe next part of the ad blames Campbell, who was California's Director of Finance from 2004 to 2005, for California's budget woes, as images of Campbell are alternated with footage of sheets of money being printed, played at increasing speed, and images of pigs, sheep, out-of-business signs, and a close-up of the word \"deficit\" in a dictionary. The narrator asks, \"who would remember the Tom Campbell Budget?\" as pictures of people from various walks of life appear, each of them wearing a concerned expression; the narrator answers his own question: \"we would.\" As hundred-dollar bills float by in the background, the narrator castigates Campbell for having supported various taxes, especially an increase in the gasoline tax, proposed following the financial crisis of 2007–08. Images of Campbell now alternate with footage of a sheep chewing its cud at increasingly rapid speeds. In a sarcastic tone of voice, the narrator repeatedly asks \"Tom\" whether his actions or stances on various issues were \"fiscally conservative\". Campbell's support for other taxes, and having been \"critical of the Bush tax cuts\" are also mentioned, as an image of Carly Fiorina's signature on the Taxpayer Protection Pledge appears. The ad calls Campbell the \"only Republican candidate\" not to sign the pledge.\n\nAt this point, the ad returns to footage of sheep in a meadow, and Campbell is described as an \"FCINO: Fiscal Conservative In Name Only\", while a man wearing a sheep costume with glowing red eyes peers out from behind a tree. The \"Demon Sheep\" then crawls on his hands and knees amongst the flock, pretending to eat grass, and repeatedly making sinister glances at the camera. The narrator explicitly calls Campbell a wolf in sheep's clothing, who has set California on the path to \"bankruptcy and higher taxes,\" as the words \"has he fooled you?\" appear in the foreground. The narrator asks, \"might there be a better choice?\" The ad abruptly changes tone, shifting to an office setting, with an unnamed woman in a business suit meeting with clients. The woman is seen only indirectly, but implied to be Carly Fiorina, and the narrator describes her in an approving voice, as a hard-working and proven fiscal conservative. The ad closes with dramatic music and the address of Fiorina's campaign website.\n\nAlthough the full ad was never broadcast on television, it rapidly garnered national and international attention, and was featured on broadcast news as an example of an ad that was either absurdly juvenile or a brilliant lampoon, depending on one's point of view. \"Slate's\" Christopher Bream described it as \"confusing and sloppy.\" Jason Linkins of \"The Huffington Post\" called it \"Bonkers.\" National Public Radio's Jessica Taylor describes it as \"one of the most infamous political ads of all time.\" Michael Scherer of \"Time\" suggested viewing the ad \"by pressing play on your cassette tape of Pink Floyd's Dark Side of The Moon just as you click play on YouTube.\" However, \"New York Times\" columnist Gail Collins refers to it as \"one of the all-time great attack videos,\" and \"The Week\" asks whether the \"Demon Sheep\" was \"the best bad campaign ad ever.\"\n\nThe ad initially appeared to backfire, as Campbell's poll numbers showed his lead over Fiorina increasing after the ad was released. But either because, or perhaps in spite of the \"Demon Sheep\" ad, Fiorina soon pulled ahead and defeated Campbell in the Republican primary by a wide margin. For her campaign against Barbara Boxer, Davis created another memorable ad, depicting Boxer \"as a bloated, power-hungry blimp floating over the Capitol and California.\" However, in the general election, Fiorina lost to the Democratic incumbent by ten percentage points. Fiorina would later seek the Republican nomination for President in the 2016 election.\n\nAlso in the 2010 election cycle, Davis created a spot for Christine O'Donnell, the Republican nominee for the special Senate election in Delaware, featuring her denying that she was a witch. She lost by a wide margin in the general election.\n"}
{"id": "27378785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27378785", "title": "Device tracking software", "text": "Device tracking software\n\nDevice tracking software is software installed in an electronic device that is capable of reporting the device's location remotely. Depending upon the software and the device on which it is installed, the software may obtain the location of the device by means of GPS, WiFi-location, IP address, or accelerometer logs, and it may report the address by means of e-mail, SMS, or other means.\n\nSome device tracking software is sold as part of a subscription to a staffed service that will assist the device's owner to update police officers with the device's location.\n\n"}
{"id": "701877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=701877", "title": "Emily Murphy", "text": "Emily Murphy\n\nEmily Murphy (born Emily Gowan Ferguson; 14 March 186827 October 1933) was a Canadian women's rights activist, jurist, and author. In 1916, she became the first female magistrate in Canada, and in the British Empire. She is best known for her contributions to Canadian feminism, specifically to the question of whether women were \"persons\" under Canadian law.\n\nMurphy is known as one of \"The Famous Five\" (also called \"The Valiant Five\")—a group of Canadian women's rights activists that also included Henrietta Muir Edwards, Nellie McClung, Louise McKinney and Irene Parlby. In 1927, the women launched the \"Persons Case,\" contending that women could be \"qualified persons\" eligible to sit in the Senate. The Supreme Court of Canada ruled that they were not. However, upon appeal to the Judicial Committee of the British Privy Council, the court of last resort for Canada at that time, the women won their case.\n\nHowever, there has been some criticism of her later work, mainly for her role in the Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta and her allegations that a ring of immigrants from other countries, particularly China, would corrupt the white race by getting Canadians hooked on drugs. In her book \"The Black Candle\", she wrote: \"It is hardly credible that the average Chinese peddler has any definite idea in his mind of bringing about the downfall of the white race, his swaying motive being probably that of greed, but in the hands of his superiors, he may become a powerful instrument to that end.\"\n\nEmily Murphy was born in Cookstown, Ontario, the third child of Isaac and Emily Ferguson. Isaac Ferguson was a successful businessman and property owner. As a child, Murphy frequently joined her two older brothers Thomas and Gowan in their adventures; their father encouraged this behaviour and often had his sons and daughters share responsibilities equally.\n\nMurphy grew up under the influence of her maternal grandfather, Ogle R. Gowan who was a politician that founded a local branch of the Orange Order in 1830 and two uncles who were a Supreme Court justice and a Senator, respectively. Her brother also became a lawyer and another member of the Supreme Court. Her family were prominent members of society and she benefited from parents who supported their daughter receiving formal academic education. Her uncle was Thomas Roberts Ferguson, an MP, and she was related to James Robert Gowan, who was a lawyer, judge, and senator.\n\nMurphy attended Bishop Strachan School, an exclusive Anglican private school for girls in Toronto and, through a friend, she met her future husband Arthur Murphy, who was 11 years her senior.\n\nIn 1887, they married, and subsequently had four daughters: Madeleine, Evelyn, Doris and Kathleen. Doris died. After Doris' death, the family decided to try a new setting and moved west to Swan River, Manitoba in 1903 and then to Edmonton, Alberta in 1907.\n\nWhile Arthur was working as an Anglican priest, Murphy explored her new surroundings and became increasingly aware of the poverty that existed.\n\nAt the age of 40, when her children became independent and began their separate lives, Murphy began to actively organize women's groups where the isolated housewives could meet and discuss ideas and plan group projects. In addition to these organizations, Murphy began to speak openly and frankly about the disadvantaged and the poor living conditions that surrounded their society.\n\nHer strong interest in the rights and protection of women and children intensified when she was made aware of an unjust experience of an Albertan woman whose husband sold the family farm; the husband then abandoned his wife and children who were left homeless and penniless. At that time, property laws did not leave the wife with any legal recourse.\n\nThis case motivated Murphy to create a campaign that assured the property rights of married women. With the support of many rural women, Murphy began to pressure the Alberta government to allow women to retain the rights of their land. In 1916, Murphy successfully persuaded the Alberta legislature to pass the Dower Act that would allow a woman legal rights to one third of her husband's property. Murphy's reputation as a women's rights activist was established by this first political victory.\n\nMurphy's success in the fight for the Dower Act, along with her work through the Local Council of Women and her increasing awareness of women's rights, influenced her request for a female magistrate in the women's court.\n\nIn 1916, Murphy, along with a group of women, attempted to observe a trial for women who were prostitutes and were arrested for \"questionable\" circumstances. The women were asked to leave the courtroom on the claims that the statement was not \"fit for mixed company\". This outcome was unacceptable to Murphy and she protested to the provincial Attorney General. \"If the evidence is not fit to be heard in mixed company,\" she argued, \"then the government must set up a special court presided over by women, to try other women\".\n\nMurphy's request was approved and she became the first woman police magistrate for the British Empire.\n\nHer appointment as a judge, however, became the cause for her greatest adversity concerning women within the law. In her first case in Alberta on July 1, 1916, she found the prisoner guilty. The prisoner's lawyer called into question her right to pass sentence since she was not legally a person. The Provincial Supreme Court denied the appeal.\n\nIn 1917, she headed the battle to have women declared as \"persons\" in Canada, and, consequently, qualified to serve in the Senate. Lawyer, Eardley Jackson, challenged her position as judge because women were not considered \"persons\" under the British North America Act 1867. This understanding was based on a British common law ruling of 1876, which stated, \"women were eligible for pains and penalties, but not rights and privileges.\"\n\nIn 1919, she presided over the inaugural conference of the Federated Women's Institutes of Canada, which passed a resolution calling for a female senator to be appointed. The National Council of Women and the Montreal Women's Club also supported the resolution, selecting Murphy as their preferred candidate.\n\nMurphy began to work on a plan to ask for clarification of how women were regarded in the BNA act and how they were to become Senators. In order for her question to be considered, she needed at least five citizens to submit the question as a group. She enlisted the help of four other Albertan women and on 27 August 1927 she and human rights activist Nellie McClung, ex MLA Louise McKinney, women's rights campaigners Henrietta Edwards and Irene Parlby signed the petition to the federal Cabinet, asking that the federal government refer the issue to the Supreme Court of Canada. The women's petition set out two questions, but the federal government re-framed it as one question, asking the Supreme Court: \"Does the word 'person' in Section 24 of the British North America Act include female persons?\" The campaign became known as \"The Persons Case\" and reached the Supreme Court of Canada in March 1928. The Court held that women were not qualified to sit in the Senate. The five women then appealed to the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council in Britain. On 18 October 1929, in a decision called Edwards v. Canada (Attorney General), the Privy Council declared that 'persons' in Section 24 of the BNA Act of 1867 should be interpreted to include both males and females therefore women were eligible to serve in the Senate.\n\nDespite the ruling, Murphy was never appointed to the Senate. The Prime Minister at the time, William Lyon Mackenzie King, was a Liberal, and Murphy was a partisan Conservative, so she was passed over in favour of philanthropist Cairine Wilson in 1930. After the Conservatives under R. B. Bennett won the 1930 federal election, Murphy was denied to chance to sit in the Senate again in 1931, because the vacancy had been caused by the death of a Catholic senator, and Murphy was a Protestant. Murphy would die in 1935 without fulfilling her dream of sitting in Canada's upper chamber.\n\nThe women were known as the Famous Five and were considered leaders in education for social reform and women's rights. They challenged convention and established an important precedent in Canadian history. In Canada's Senate Chamber, the five women are honoured with a plaque that reads, \"To further the cause of womankind these five outstanding pioneer women caused steps to be taken resulting in the recognition by the Privy Council of women as persons eligible for appointment to the Senate of Canada.\" Murphy, along with the rest of the Famous Five, was featured on the back of one of the Canadian 50 dollar bills issued in 2004 as part of the Canadian Journey Series. In October 2009, the Senate voted to name Murphy and the rest of the Five Canada's first \"honorary senators\".\n\nAlthough Murphy's views on race changed over the course of her life, the perspective contained in her book \"The Black Candle\" is considered the most consequential because it played a role in creating a widespread \"war on drugs mentality\" leading to legislation that \"defined addiction as a law enforcement problem\". A series of articles in \"Maclean's\" magazine under her pen name, \"Janey Canuck\", forms the basis of \"The Black Candle\". Using extensive anecdotes and \"expert\" opinion, \"The Black Candle\" depicts an alarming picture of drug abuse in Canada, detailing Murphy's understanding of the use and effects of opium, cocaine, and pharmaceuticals, as well as a \"new menace\", \"marihuana\". Murphy's concern with drugs began when she started coming into \"disproportionate contact with Chinese people\" in her courtroom because they were over-represented in the criminal justice system. In addition to professional expertise and her own observations, Murphy was also given a tour of opium dens in Vancouver's Chinatown by local police detectives. Vancouver at the time was in the midst of a moral panic over drugs that was part of the anti-Oriental campaign that precipitated the Chinese Immigration Act of 1923.\n\nCanadian drug historian Catherine Carstairs has argued that Murphy's importance regarding drug policy has been \"overstated\". Although Murphy's anti-drug screeds were widely read and helped spread the drug panic across Canada, she was not respected by the Division of Narcotic Control because of the creative liberties she took in presenting research they had assisted her with. According to Carstairs, \"There were insinuations in the records that the bureaucrats at the division of narcotic control did not think very highly of Emily Murphy and did not pay attention to what she was writing about, and they didn't consider her a particularly accurate or valuable source.\"\n\nCarstairs also avers that Murphy did not influence the drug panic in Vancouver, but that nevertheless \"her articles did mark a turning point and her book ... brought the Vancouver drug panic to a larger Canadian audience\".\n\nRace permeates \"The Black Candle\", and is intricately entwined with the drug trade and addiction in Murphy's analysis. Yet she is ambiguous in her treatment of non-whites. In one passage, for example, she chastises whites who use the Chinese as \"scapegoats\", while elsewhere, she refers to the Chinese man as a \"visitor\" in this country, and that \"it might be wise to put him out\" if it turns out that this visitor carries \"poisoned lollipops in his pocket and feeds them to our children\". Drug addiction, however, not the Chinese immigrant, is \"a scourge so dreadful in its effects that it threatens the very foundations of civilization\", and which laws therefore need to target for eradication. Drugs victimize everyone, and members of all races perpetrate the drug trade, according to Murphy. At the same time, she does not depart from the dominant view of middle class whites at the time that \"races\" were discrete, biologically determined categories, naturally ranked in a hierarchy. In this scheme, the white race was facing degradation through miscegenation, while the more prolific \"black and yellow races may yet obtain the ascendancy\" and thus threatened to \"wrest the leadership of the world from the British\".\n\nMurphy's distaste for non-whites is reflected in scholarly debates, but what is not controversial is that \"The Black Candle\" was written \"for the express purpose of arousing public demands for stricter drug legislation\" and that in this she was to some degree successful. This motivation may have influenced her racial analysis by playing to the popular prejudices of her white audiences. On the other hand, she may have deliberately tried to distance herself from those prejudices, especially the ones propagated by the more vulgar and hysterical Asian exclusionists in British Columbia in order to maximize her own credibility and sway her more moderate readers.\n\nDuring the early twentieth century, scientific knowledge emerged in the forefront of social importance. Advances in science and technology were thought to hold answers to current and future social problems.\n\nMurphy was among those who thought that societal problems like alcoholism, drug abuse and crime resulted from mental deficiencies. In a 1932 article titled \"Overpopulation and Birth Control\", she states: \"over-population [is a] basic problem of all ... none of our troubles can even be allayed until this is remedied\". As the politics behind the Second World War continued to develop, Murphy, who was a pacifist, theorized that the only reason for war was that nations needed to fight for land to accommodate their growing populations. Her argument was that: if there was population control, people would not need as much land. Without the constant need for more land, war would cease to exist.\n\nHer solution to these social issues was eugenics. Murphy supported selective breeding and the compulsory sterilization of those individuals who were considered mentally deficient. She believed that the mentally and socially inferior reproduced more than the \"human thoroughbreds\" and appealed to the Alberta Legislative Assembly for forced sterilization. In a petition, she wrote that mentally defective children were \"a menace to society and an enormous cost to the state ... science is proving that mental defectiveness is a transmittable hereditary condition\". She wrote to Minister of Agriculture and Health, George Hoadley that two female \"feeble-minded\" mental patients had already bred several offspring. She called it \"a neglect amounting to a crime to permit these two women to go on bearing children\".\n\nDue in part to her heavy advocacy of compulsory sterilization, thousands of Albertan men and women were sterilized without their knowledge or consent under the Sexual Sterilization Act of Alberta before its repeal in 1972.\n\nHer legacy is disputed, with her important contributions to feminism being weighed against her racist and nativist views and her advocation of eugenics. In addition to being against immigration, she was a strong supporter of Alberta's legislation for the \"Sexual Sterilization of the Insane\" at a time when compulsory sterilization was practised in some North American jurisdictions.\n\nRecent memorializing of the Famous Five, such as the illustration on the back of the fifty-dollar bill, has been used as the occasion for re-evaluating Murphy's legacy. Marijuana decriminalization activists especially have criticized Murphy as part of the movement to discredit marijuana prohibition. It has been speculated that today's drug laws are built on the racist foundations laid by Murphy and that the drug war has harmed more women than the Persons Case has benefited. Conversely, Murphy's defenders note that she was writing at a time when white racism was typical, not exceptional, and that Murphy's views were more progressive than many of her peers.\n\nEmily Murphy's house in Edmonton, Alberta, is on the Canadian Register of Historic People and Places. She lived in this home from 1919 until her death in 1933. It is now located on the campus of the University of Alberta and houses the Student Legal Services.\n\nIn 1958, she was recognized as a Person of National Historic Significance by the government of Canada. A plaque commemorating this is installed at Emily Murphy Park on Emily Murphy Park Road in Edmonton. The \"National Persons\" case was recognized in 1997 as a National Historic Event with a plaque at the same place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24203217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24203217", "title": "Fail-stop", "text": "Fail-stop\n\nA fail-stop subset of a computer language is one that has the same semantics as the original, except in the case where an exceptional condition arises. The fail-stop subset must report an exceptional condition whenever the superset language reports one, but may additionally report an exceptional condition in other cases.\n\nFail-stop languages are often used in computer systems where correctness is very important, since it is easier to make such systems fail-fast. For example, the \"+\" operator in many programming languages is not associative because of the possibility of floating-point overflow. Repairing these languages to fail fast when commonly assumed properties do not hold makes it much easier to write and verify correct code.\n\nIn many widely used programming languages the code below might reduce the bank account value if the deposited amount or old account value is very large, by causing an overflowed value to be assigned to new_bank_account_value.\n\nBut in a fail-stop language that treats overflow as an exceptional condition, it is either correct, or will terminate with an exceptional condition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1512214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1512214", "title": "Germplasm", "text": "Germplasm\n\nGermplasm are living genetic resources such as seeds or tissues that are maintained for the purpose of animal and plant breeding, preservation, and other research uses. These resources may take the form of seed collections stored in seed banks, trees growing in nurseries, animal breeding lines maintained in animal breeding programs or gene banks, etc. Germplasm collections can range from collections of wild species to elite, domesticated breeding lines that have undergone extensive human selection. Germplasm collection is important for the maintenance of biological diversity and food security.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5329520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5329520", "title": "Israel and the apartheid analogy", "text": "Israel and the apartheid analogy\n\nThe Israeli apartheid analogy compares Israel's treatment of Palestinians to South Africa's treatment of non-whites during its apartheid era within the context of the crime of apartheid.\n\nWith respect to the Israeli-occupied West Bank, Israel's critics have repeatedly denounced it of practising a system akin to apartheid against Arabs and Palestinians. Israel has been described as an \"apartheid\" state by some scholars, United Nations investigators, human rights groups critical of Israeli policy and supporters of the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement against Israel. The description has also been used by several Israeli former politicians. Critics of Israeli policy say that \"a system of control\" in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, including the ID system; Israeli settlements; separate roads for Israeli and Palestinian citizens around many of these settlements; Israeli military checkpoints; marriage law; the West Bank barrier; use of Palestinians as cheaper labour; Palestinian West Bank exclaves; and inequities in infrastructure, legal rights (e.g. \"Enclave law\"), and access to land and resources between Palestinians and Israeli residents in the Israeli-occupied territories, resemble some aspects of the South African apartheid regime, and that elements of Israel's occupation constitute forms of colonialism and of apartheid, contrary to international law. Opponents of the idea of Israeli apartheid in the West Bank argue that the comparison is factually, morally, and historically inaccurate and intended to delegitimize Israel. Opponents state that the West Bank and Gaza are not part of sovereign Israel. They argue that though the internal free movement of Palestinians is heavily regulated by the Israeli government, the territories are governed by the elected Palestinian Authority and Hamas leaders, so they cannot be compared to the internal policies of apartheid South Africa. \n\nWith regard to claims of apartheid within Israel-proper, some commentators extend the analogy to include treatment of Arab citizens of Israel, describing their citizenship status as second-class. Critics of the claim argue that Israel cannot be called an apartheid state because unlike South Africa, which enshrined its racial segregation policies in law, Israeli law is the same for Jewish citizens and other Israeli citizens, with no explicit distinction between race, creed or sex. However, others believe that certain laws do explicitly or implicitly discriminate on the basis or creed or race, in effect privileging Jewish citizens and disadvantaging non-Jewish, and particularly Arab, citizens of the state. These include the Law of Return, the Ban on Family Unification, and many laws regarding security, land and planning, citizenship, political representation in the Knesset, education and culture. The , which has been met with worldwide condemnation, has also been compared by members of PLO, opposition MPs, and other Arab and Jewish Israelis, to an \"apartheid law\".\n\nIn 1961, the South African prime minister and architect of South Africa's apartheid policies, Hendrik Verwoerd, dismissed an Israeli vote against South African apartheid at the United Nations, saying, \"Israel is not consistent in its new anti-apartheid attitude ... they took Israel away from the Arabs after the Arabs lived there for a thousand years. In that, I agree with them. Israel, like South Africa, is an apartheid state.\" Since then, a number of sources have used the apartheid analogy in their examination of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict. In the early 1970s, Arabic language magazines of the PLO and PFLP compared the Israeli proposals for a Palestinian autonomy to the Bantustan strategy of South Africa. In 1979 the Palestinian sociologist Elia Zureik argued that while not \"de jure\" an apartheid state, Israeli society was characterized by a latent form of apartheid. The concept emerged with some frequency in both academic and activist writings in the 1980–90s, when Uri Davis, Meron Benvenisti, Richard Locke and Anthony Stewart employed the term 'apartheid' to describe Israel's treatment of the Palestinians.\n\nIn the 1990s, the term \"Israeli apartheid\" gained prominence after Israel, as a result of the Oslo Accords, granted the Palestinians limited self-government in the form of the Palestinian Authority and established a system of permits and checkpoints in the Palestinian Territories. The apartheid accusation has gained additional traction following Israel's construction of the West Bank Barrier. By 2013 the analogy between the West Bank and Bantustans of apartheid-era South Africa was widely drawn in international circles. Also in the United States, where the notion had previously been taboo, Israel's rule over the occupied territories was increasingly compared to apartheid.\n\nHeribert Adam of Simon Fraser University and Kogila Moodley of the University of British Columbia, in their 2005 book-length study \"Seeking Mandela: Peacemaking Between Israelis and Palestinians\", wrote that controversy over use of the term arises because Israel as a state is unique in the region. He writes that Israel is perceived as a Western democracy and is thus likely to be judged by the standards of such a state. Israel also claims to be a home for the worldwide Jewish diaspora. Adam and Moodley note that Jewish historical suffering has imbued Zionism with a \"subjective sense of moral validity\" that the whites ruling South Africa never had. They also suggested that academic comparisons between Israel and apartheid South Africa that see both dominant groups as \"settler societies\" leave unanswered the question of \"when and how settlers become indigenous\", as well as failing to take into account that Israeli's Jewish immigrants view themselves as returning home. Adam and Moodley stress, \"because people give meaning to their lives and interpret their worlds through these diverse ideological prisms, the perceptions are real and have to be taken seriously.\"\n\nIsraeli historian Benny Morris said that those that equate Israeli efforts to separate the two populations to apartheid are effectively trying to undermine the legitimacy of any peace agreement based on a two-state solution.\n\nHafrada ( literally \"separation\") is the official description of the policy of the government of Israel to separate the Palestinian population in Palestinian territories from the Israeli population. In Israel, the term is used to refer to the general policy of separation the Israeli government has adopted and implemented over the Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The word has been compared to the term \"Apartheid\" by scholars and commentators, and by some that hafrada and apartheid are equivalent\nThe Israeli West Bank barrier, (in Hebrew, \"Geder Ha'hafrada\" or \"separation fence\") the associated controls on the movement of Palestinians posed by West Bank Closures; and Israel's unilateral disengagement from Gaza have been cited as examples of hafrada. Aaron Klieman has distinguished between partition plans based on \"hafrada\", which he translated as \"detachment\"; and \"hipardut\", translated as \"disengagement.\"\n\nSince its first public introductions, the concept-turned-policy or paradigm has dominated Israeli political and cultural discourse and debate.\n\nIn 2014, United Nations Special Rapporteur Richard A. Falk used the term in his \"Report of the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the Palestinian territories occupied since 1967\".\n\nIn 1973 the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid (ICSPCA) was adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. The ICSPCA defines the crime of apartheid as \"inhuman acts committed for the purpose of establishing and maintaining domination by one racial group ... over another racial group ... and systematically oppressing them\". In 2002 the crime of apartheid was further defined by Article 7 of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court as encompassing inhumane acts such as torture, murder, forcible transfer, imprisonment, or persecution of an identifiable group on political, racial, national, ethnic, cultural, religious, or other grounds, \"committed in the context of an institutionalized regime of systematic oppression and domination by one racial group over any racial group or groups and committed with the intention of maintaining that regime\".\n\nIn a 2007 report, U.N. Special Rapporteur for Palestine John Dugard stated, \"elements of the Israeli occupation constitute forms of colonialism and of apartheid, which are contrary to international law\" and suggested that the \"legal consequences of a prolonged occupation with features of colonialism and apartheid\" be put to the International Court of Justice. In 2009, South Africa's statutory research agency the Human Sciences Research Council (HSRC) published a legal study finding that, \"the State of Israel exercises control in the [Occupied Palestinian Territories] with the purpose of maintaining a system of domination by Jews over Palestinians and that this system constitutes a breach of the prohibition of apartheid.\" In March 2011, U.N. Special Rapporteur for Palestine Richard A. Falk said, \"The continued pattern of settlement expansion in East Jerusalem combined with the forcible eviction of long-residing Palestinians is creating an intolerable situation ... [and] can only be described in its cumulative impact as a form of ethnic cleansing.\"\n\nThe question of whether Israelis and Palestinians can be said to constitute \"racial groups\" has been a point of contention in regard to the applicability of the ICSPCA and Article 7 of the Rome Statute. Political writer Ronald Bruce St John has argued that in regards to the ICSPCA Israeli policy in the West Bank cannot technically be defined as apartheid, because it lacks the racial component. However he then states that with the 2002 introduction of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court \"the emphasis shifts to an identifiable national, ethnic or cultural group, as opposed to a racial group,\" in which case \"Israeli policy in the West Bank clearly constitutes a form of apartheid with an effect on the Palestinian people much the same as apartheid had on the non-White population in South Africa.\" The HSRC's 2009 report states that in the Occupied Palestinian Territories, Jewish and Palestinian identities are \"socially constructed as groups distinguished by ancestry or descent as well as nationality, ethnicity, and religion\". On this basis, the study concludes that Israeli Jews and Palestinian Arabs can be considered \"racial groups\" for the purposes of the definition of apartheid in international law. Jacques De Maio, head of the International Committee of the Red Cross, rejected the claim that there is apartheid in Israel, saying there is \"no regime of superiority of race, of denial of basic human rights to a group of people because of their alleged racial inferiority. There is a bloody national conflict, whose most prominent and tragic characteristic is its continuation over the years, decades-long, and there is a state of occupation. Not apartheid.\"\n\nIn 2009, a study was commissioned and coordinated by the Human Sciences Research Council of South Africa on Israel’s practices in the occupied Palestinian territories under international law. \n\nThe report cautioned against focusing exclusively on events within Israel proper and avoiding analysis of Israeli policies in the Occupied Territories. The report noted that one of the most 'notorious' aspects of the Apartheid policy was the 'racial enclave policy' manifested in the Black Homelands called bantustans, and added: \"As the apartheid regime in South Africa, Israel justifies these measures under the pretext of 'security'. Contrary to such claims, they are in fact part of an overall regime aimed at preserving demographic superiority of one racial group over the other in certain areas\". \n\nAccording to the report Israel's practices in the occupied Palestinian territories correlate almost entirely with the definition of apartheid as established in Article 2 of the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid. Comparison to South African laws and practices by the apartheid regime also found strong correlations with Israeli practices, including violations of international standards for due process (such as illegal detention); discriminatory privileges based on ascribed ethnicity (legally, as Jewish or non-Jewish); draconian enforced ethnic segregation in all parts of life, including by confining groups to ethnic \"reserves and ghettoes\"; comprehensive restrictions on individual freedoms, such as movement and expression; a dual legal system based on ethno-national identity (Jewish or Palestinian); denationalization (denial of citizenship); and a special system of laws designed selectively to punish any Palestinian resistance to the system.\n\nInitially released as a report, the report was later edited and published in 2012 (by Pluto Press) as \"Beyond Occupation: Apartheid, Colonialism and International Law in the Occupied Palestinian Territories\".\n\nAdam and Moodley wrote that Israeli Palestinians are \"restricted to second-class citizen status when another ethnic group monopolizes state power\" because of legal prohibitions on access to land, as well as the unequal allocation of civil service positions and per capita expenditure on educations between \"dominant and minority citizens.\" \n\nSouth African Judge Richard Goldstone, writing in \"The New York Times\" in October 2011, said that while there exists a degree of separation between Israeli Jews and Arabs, \"in Israel, there is no apartheid. Nothing there comes close to the definition of apartheid under the 1998 Rome Statute\". Concerning the West Bank, Goldstone wrote that the situation \"is more complex. But here too there is no intent to maintain 'an institutionalized regime of systematic oppression and domination by one racial group'.\" Goldstone also wrote in \"The New York Times\", \"the charge that Israel is an apartheid state is a false and malicious one that precludes, rather than promotes, peace and harmony.\"\n\nIan Buruma has argued that even though there is social discrimination against Arabs in Israel and that \"the ideal of a Jewish state smacks of racism\", the analogy is \"intellectually lazy, morally questionable and possibly even mendacious\". Buruma argued that Arabs make up 20% of the Israeli population, and \"enjoy full citizen's rights\" adding that there is no apartheid within the national territory of the State of Israel.\n\nFifty-three faculty members from Stanford University signed a letter expressing the view that \"the State of Israel has nothing in common with apartheid\" within its national territory. They argued that Israel is a liberal democracy in which Arab citizens of Israel enjoy civil, religious, social, and political equality. They said that likening Israel to apartheid South Africa was a \"smear\" and part of a campaign of \"malicious propaganda\".\n\nThere has been a steady extension of Israeli Arab rights to lease or purchase land formerly restricted to Jewish applicants, such as that owned by the Jewish National Fund or the Jewish Agency. These groups, established by Jews during the Ottoman period to aid in building up a viable Jewish community in Ottoman Palestine, purchased land, including arid desert and swamps, that could be reclaimed, leased to and farmed by Jews, thus encouraging Jewish immigration. After the establishment of the state of Israel, the Israel Lands Authority oversaw the administration of these properties. On 8 March 2000, the Israeli Supreme Court ruled that Israeli Arabs, too, had an equal right to purchase long-term leases of such land, even inside previously solely Jewish communities and villages. The court ruled that the government may not allocate land based on religion or ethnicity and may not prevent Arab citizens from living wherever they choose: \"The principle of equality prohibits the state from distinguishing between its citizens on the basis of religion or nationality,\" Chief Justice Aharon Barak wrote. \"The principle also applies to the allocation of state land... The Jewish character of the state does not permit Israel to discriminate between its citizens.\" Commenting on this ruling, the British philosopher Bernard Harrison has written, in a book chapter dealing with the \"apartheid Israel\" accusation: \"No doubt much more needs to be done. But we are discussing, remember, the question of whether Israel is, or is not, an 'apartheid state'. It is not merely hard, but impossible, to imagine the South African Supreme Court, under the premiership of Hendrik Verwoerd, say, delivering an analogous decision, because to have done so would have struck at the root of the entire system of apartheid, which was nothing if not a system for separating the races by separating the areas they were permitted to occupy.\"\n\nIn 2006, Chris McGreal of \"The Guardian\" stated that as a result of the government's control over most of the land in Israel, the vast majority of land in Israel is not available to non-Jews. In 2007 in response to a 2004 petition filed by Adalah, the Legal Center for Arab Minority Rights in Israel, Attorney General Menachem Mazuz ruled that the policy was discriminatory, it has been ruled that the JNF must sell land to non-Jews, and will be compensated with other land for any such land to ensure that the overall amount of Jewish-owned land in Israel remains unchanged.\n\nIn the early 2000s, several community settlements in the Negev and the Galilee were accused of barring Arab applicants from moving in. In 2010, the Knesset passed legislation that allowed admissions committees to function in smaller communities in the Galilee and the Negev, while explicitly forbidding committees to bar applicants on the basis of race, religion, sex, ethnicity, disability, personal status, age, parenthood, sexual orientation, country of origin, political views, or political affiliation. Critics, however, say the law gives the privately run admissions committees a wide latitude over public lands, and believe it will worsen discrimination against the Arab minority.\n\nThe Knesset passed Citizenship and Entry into Israel Law in 2003 as an emergency measure after Israel had suffered its worst ever spate of suicide bombings and after several Palestinians who had been granted permanent residency on the grounds of family reunification took part in terrorist attacks in Israel. The law makes inhabitants of Iran, Afghanistan, Lebanon, Libya, Sudan, Syria, Iraq, Pakistan, Yemen, and areas governed by the Palestinian Authority ineligible for the automatic granting of Israeli citizenship and residency permits that is usually available through marriage to an Israeli citizen. This applies equally to a spouse of any Israeli citizen, whether Arab or Jewish, but in practice the law mostly affects Palestinian Israelis living in the towns bordering the West Bank. The law was intended to be temporary but has since been extended annually.\n\nIn the Israeli Supreme Court decision on this matter, Deputy Chief Justice Mishael Cheshin argued that, \"Israeli citizens [do not] enjoy a constitutional right to bring a foreign national into Israel ... and it is the right—moreover, it is the duty—of the state, of any state, to protect its residents from those wishing to harm them. And it derives from this that the state is entitled to prevent the immigration of enemy nationals into it—even if they are spouses of Israeli citizens—while it is waging an armed conflict with that same enemy.\"\n\nThe law was upheld in May 2006, by the Supreme Court of Israel on a six to five vote. Israel's Chief Justice, Aharon Barak, sided with the minority on the bench, declaring: \"This violation of rights is directed against Arab citizens of Israel. As a result, therefore, the law is a violation of the right of Arab citizens in Israel to equality.\" Zehava Gal-On, one of the founders of B'Tselem and a Knesset member with the Meretz-Yachad party, stated that with the ruling \"The Supreme Court could have taken a braver decision and not relegated us to the level of an apartheid state.\" The law was also criticized by Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. In 2007, the restriction was expanded to citizens of Iran, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon.\n\nHeribert Adam and Kogila Moodley cite the marriage law as an example of how Arab Israelis \"resemble in many ways 'Colored' and Indian South Africans\". They write: \"Both Israeli Palestinians and Colored and Indian South Africans are restricted to second-class citizen status when another ethnic group monopolizes state power, treats the minorities as intrinsically suspect, and legally prohibits their access to land or allocates civil service positions or per capita expenditure on education differentially between dominant and minority citizens.\"\n\nIn June 2008 after the law was extended for another year, Amos Schocken, the publisher of the Israeli daily \"Haaretz\", wrote in an opinion article, that the law severely discriminates when comparing the rights of young Israeli Jewish citizens and young Israeli Arab citizens who marry, and that its existence in the law books turns Israel into an apartheid state.\n\nSeparate and unequal education systems were a central part of apartheid in South Africa, as part of a deliberate strategy designed to limit black children to a life of manual labor. Some disparities between Jews and Arabs in Israel's education system exist, although they are not nearly so significant and the intent not so malign. The Israeli Pupils' Rights Law of 2000 prohibits educators from establishing different rights, obligations and disciplinary standards for students of different religions. Educational institutions may not discriminate against religious minorities in admissions or expulsion decisions, or when developing curricula or assigning students to classes. Unlike apartheid South Africa, In Israel, education is free and compulsory for all citizens, from elementary school to the end of high school, and university access is based on uniform tuition for all citizens.\n\nIsrael has Hebrew-language and Arabic-language schools, while some schools are bilingual. Most Arabs study in Arabic, while a small number of Arab parents choose to enroll their children in Hebrew schools. All of Israel's eight universities use Hebrew. In 1992 a government report concluded that nearly twice as much money was allocated to each Jewish child as to each Arab pupil. Likewise, a 2004 Human Rights Watch report identified significant disparities in education spending and stated that discrimination against Arab children affects every aspect of the education system. Exam pass-rate for Arab pupils were about one-third lower than that for their Jewish compatriots. In 2007, Israeli Education Ministry announced a plan to increase funding for schools in Arab communities. According to a ministry official, \"At the end of the process, a lot of money will be directed toward schools with students from families with low education and income levels, mainly in the Arab sector.\" The Education Ministry prepared a five-year plan to close the gaps and raise the number of students eligible for high school matriculation.\n\nChris McGreal, \"The Guardian's\" former chief Israel correspondent, compared Israel's Population Registry Law of 1965, which requires all residents of Israel to register their nationality, to South Africa's Apartheid-era Population Registration Act, which categorized South Africans according to racial definitions in order to determine who could live in what land. According to McGreal, the Israeli identification cards determine where people are permitted to live, affects access to some government welfare programs, and has impact on how people are likely to be treated by civil servants and policemen.\n\nThe , which was passed July 2018, explicitly restricts the right of self-determination to Jews. The bill would also allow the establishment of segregated towns in which residency would be restricted by religion or nationality — which has been compared to the 1950 Group Areas Act which established apartheid in South Africa. Opposition members and other commentators have warned that the bill would establish or consolidate an apartheid regime; a \"Haaretz\" editorial described it as \"a cornerstone of apartheid\".\n\nThe Ministerial Committee for Legislation unanimously approved the bill in May 2017.\n\nLeila Farsakh, associate professor of Political Science at University of Massachusetts Boston has said that after 1977, \"the military government in the West Bank and Gaza Strip (WBGS) expropriated and enclosed Palestinian land and allowed the transfer of Israeli settlers to the occupied territories.\" She notes that settlers continued to be governed by Israeli laws, and that a different system of military law was enacted \"to regulate the civilian, economic and legal affairs of Palestinian inhabitants.\" She says \"[m]any view these Israeli policies of territorial integration and societal separation as apartheid, even if they were never given such a name.\"\n\nArabs living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip, areas occupied by Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War and deemed to be occupied territory under international law, are under the civil control of the Palestinian Authority, and are not Israeli citizens. In some areas of the West Bank, they are under Israeli security control.\n\nFormer U.S. President Jimmy Carter authored a 2006 book titled \"\". Carter's use of the term \"apartheid\" was calibrated to avoid specific accusations of racism against the government of Israel, and carefully limited to the situation in Gaza and the West Bank. In a letter to the Board of Rabbis of Greater Phoenix, Carter made it clear that he was not discussing the circumstances within Israel but exclusively within Gaza and the West Bank.\n\nIn 2007, in advance of a report from the United Nations Human Rights Council, Special Rapporteur John Dugard said that \"Israel's laws and practices in the OPT [occupied Palestinian territories] certainly resemble aspects of apartheid.\" Dugard asked: \"Can it seriously be denied that the purpose [...] is to establish and maintain domination by one racial group (Jews) over another racial group (Palestinians) and systematically oppressing them?\" In October 2010, Richard A. Falk reported to the General Assembly Third Committee that \"the nature of the occupation as of 2010 substantiates earlier allegations of colonialism and apartheid in evidence and law to a greater extent than was the case even three years ago.\" Falk described it as a \"cumulative process\" and said \"the longer it continues...the more serious is the abridgment of fundamental Palestinian rights.\"\n\nIsraeli Defense Minister and former prime minister Ehud Barak stated in 2010 regarding the occupied territories that \"As long as in this territory west of the Jordan River there is only one political entity called Israel it is going to be either non-Jewish, or non-democratic. If this bloc of millions of Palestinians cannot vote, that will be an apartheid state.\"\n\nIn November 2014, former Attorney General of Israel (1993–1996) Michael Ben-Yair urged the European Economic Union to endorse the creation of a Palestinian state, arguing that Israel had imposed an apartheid regime on the West Bank. He stated that the Jews' \"national-historical affiliation with the land of Israel\" must not come \"at the expense of another nation\", advocating for co-existence. In 2015, Meir Dagan argued that continuation of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's policies would result in an Israel that is either a binational state or an apartheid state. Dagan, a former head of the Israeli agency Mossad, said in particular that the Operation Cast Lead military effort in Palestinian territory had failed.\n\nIn 2003, a year after Operation Defensive Shield, the Israeli government announced a project of \"fences and other physical obstacles\" to prevent Palestinians crossing into Israel. Several figures, including Mohammad Sarwar, John Pilger, Mustafa Barghouti and others have described the resultant West Bank barrier as an \"apartheid wall\".\nSupporters of the West Bank barrier consider it to be largely responsible for reducing incidents of terrorism by 90% from 2002 to 2005. \nSome Israelis have compared the separation plan to the South African apartheid regime. Political scientist, Meron Benvenisti, wrote that Israel's disengagement from Gaza created a bantustan model for Gaza. According to Benvenisti, Ariel Sharon intention to disengage from Gaza only after construction of the fence was completed, \"along a route that will include all settlement blocs (in keeping with Binyamin Netanyahus demand), underscores the continuity of the bantustan concept. The fence creates three bantustans on the West Bank - Jenin-Nablus, Bethlehem-Hebron and Ramallah. He called this \"the real link between the Gaza and West Bank plans.\".\n\nThe International Court of Justice ruled in 2004 in an advisory opinion that the wall is illegal where it extends beyond the 1967 Green Line into the West Bank. Israel disagreed with the ruling, but its supreme court subsequently ordered the barrier to be moved in sections where its route was seen to cause more hardship to Palestinians than security concerns could motivate. The Supreme Court of Israel ruled that the barrier is defensive and accepted the government's position that the route is based on security considerations.\n\nHenry Siegman, a former national director of the American Jewish Congress, has stated that the network of settlements in the West Bank has created an \"irreversible colonial project\" aimed to foreclose the possibility of a viable Palestinian state. According to Siegman, in accomplishing this Israel has \"crossed the threshold from 'the only democracy in the Middle East' to the only apartheid regime in the Western world\". Siegman argues that denial of both self-determination and Israeli citizenship to Palestinians amounts to a \"double disenfranchisement\", which when based on ethnicity amounts to racism. Siegman continues to state that reserving democracy for privileged citizens and keeping others \"behind checkpoints and barbed wire fences\" is the opposite of democracy.\n\nJohn Dugard has compared Israel's confiscation of Palestinian farms and land, and destruction of Palestinian homes, to similar policies of Apartheid-era South Africa.\n\nA major 2002 study of Israeli settlement practices by the Israeli human rights organization B'Tselem concluded: \"Israel has created in the Occupied Territories a regime of separation based on discrimination, applying two separate systems of law in the same area and basing the rights of individuals on their nationality. This regime is the only one of its kind in the world, and is reminiscent of distasteful regimes from the past, such as the apartheid regime in South Africa.\"\n\nIn 2007, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination reported that Palestinians and Israeli settlers in the occupied territories are subject to different criminal laws, leading to longer detention and harsher punishments for Palestinians than for Israelis for the same offenses. Amnesty International has reported that in the West Bank, Israeli settlers and soldiers who engage in abuses against Palestinians, including unlawful killings, enjoy \"impunity\" from punishment and are rarely prosecuted. However Palestinians detained by Israeli security forces may be imprisoned for prolonged periods of time, and reports of their torture and other ill-treatment are not credibly investigated.\n\nJohn Dugard has compared Israeli imprisonment of Palestinians to policies of Apartheid-era South Africa, saying \"Apartheid's security police practiced torture on a large scale. So do the Israeli security forces. There were many political prisoners on Robben Island but there are more Palestinian political prisoners in Israeli jails.\"\n\nThe World Bank found in 2009 that Israeli settlements in the West Bank (which amount to 15% of the population of the West Bank) are given access to over 80% of its fresh water resources, despite the fact that the Oslo accords call for \"joint\" management of such resources. This has created, according to the Bank, \"real water shortages\" for the Palestinians. In January 2012, the Foreign Affairs Committee of the French parliament published a report describing Israel's water policies in the West Bank as \"a weapon serving the new apartheid\". The report noted that the 450,000 Israeli settlers used more water than the 2.3 million Palestinians, \"in contravention of international law\", that Palestinians are not allowed to use the underground aquifers, and that Israel was deliberately destroying wells, reservoirs and water purification plants. Israeli Foreign Ministry spokesman Yigal Palmor said the report was \"loaded with the language of vicious propaganda, far removed from any professional criticism with which one could argue intelligently\". A report by the Begin–Sadat Center for Strategic Studies concludes that Israel has fulfilled the water agreements it has made with the Palestinians, and the author has commented that the situation is \"just the opposite of apartheid\" as Israel has provided water infrastructure to more than 700 Palestinian villages.\nThe Association for Civil Rights in Israel concluded in 2008 that a segregated road network in the West Bank, expansion of Jewish settlements, restriction of the growth of Palestinian towns and discriminatory granting of services, budgets and access to natural resources are \"a blatant violation of the principle of equality and in many ways reminiscent of the Apartheid regime in South Africa\". The group reversed its previous reluctance to use the comparison to South Africa because \"things are getting worse rather than better\", according to spokeswoman Melanie Takefman.\n\nPalestinians living in the non-annexed portions of the West Bank do not have Israeli citizenship or voting rights in Israel, but are subject to movement restrictions of the Israeli government. Israel has created roads and checkpoints in the West Bank with the stated purpose of preventing the uninhibited movement of suicide bombers and militants in the region. The human rights NGO B'Tselem has indicated that such policies have isolated some Palestinian communities and state that Israel's road regime \"based on the principle of separation through discrimination, bears striking similarities to the racist apartheid regime that existed in South Africa until 1994\". \n\nThe International Court of Justice stated that the fundamental rights of the Palestinian population of the occupied territories are guaranteed by the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and that Israel could not deny them on the grounds of security. Marwan Bishara, a teacher of international relations at the American University of Paris, has claimed that the restrictions on the movement of goods between Israel and the West Bank are \"a \"de facto\" apartheid system\". Michael Oren argues that none of this even remotely resembles apartheid, since \"the vast majority of settlers and Palestinians choose to live apart because of cultural and historical differences, not segregation, though thousands of them do work side by side. The separate roads were created in response to terrorist attacks – not to segregate Palestinians but to save Jewish lives. And Israeli roads are used by Israeli Jews and Arabs alike.\"\n\nA permit and closure system was introduced in 1990. Leila Farsakh maintains that this system imposes \"on Palestinians similar conditions to those faced by blacks under the pass laws. Like the pass laws, the permit system controlled population movement according to the settlers' unilaterally defined considerations.\" In response to the al-Aqsa intifada, Israel modified the permit system and fragmented the WBGS [West Bank and Gaza Strip] territorially. \"In April 2002 Israel declared that the WBGS would be cut into eight main areas, outside which Palestinians could not live without a permit.\" \n\nJohn Dugard has said these laws \"resemble, but in severity go far beyond, apartheid's pass system\". Jamal Zahalka, an Israeli-Arab member of the Knesset has also said that this permit system if a feature of apartheid. Azmi Bishara, a former Knesset member, argued that the Palestinian situation had been caused by \"colonialist apartheid\".\n\nB'Tselem wrote in 2004, \"Palestinians are barred from or have restricted access to 450 miles of West Bank roads\" and has said this system has \"clear similarities\" with the apartheid regime in South Africa.\n\nIn October 2005 the Israel Defense Forces stopped Palestinians from driving on Highway 60, as part of a plan for a separate Road Network for Palestinians and Israelis in the West Bank. The road had been sealed after the fatal shooting of three settlers near Bethlehem. As of 2005, no private Palestinian cars were permitted on the road although public transport was still allowed. \n\nIn 2011, Major General Nitzan Alon abolished separate public transportation systems on the West Bank, permitting Palestinians to ride alongside Israelis. The measure has been protested by settlers. The IDF order was reportedly overturned by Moshe Ya'alon who, responding to pressure from settler groups, issued a directive that would deny Palestinians passage on buses running from Israel to the West Bank. The decision was said to be made on security grounds, though according to \"Haaretz\", military officials state that Palestinian use of such transport poses no security threat. Justice Minister Tzipi Livini asked the Israeli Attorney General Yehuda Weinstein to examine the ban's legality and Weinstein immediately demanded that Ya'alon provide an explanation for his decision. Israeli security sources were quoted saying the decision had nothing to do with public buses and said that the goal was to supervise the entrance into and exit out of Israeli territory, thereby decreasing the chance of terrorist attacks inside Israel. Critics on the left described the policy as tantamount to apartheid, and something that would render Israel a pariah state.\n\nOn 29 December 2009 Israel's High Court of Justice accepted the Association for Civil Rights in Israel's petition against an IDF order barring Palestinians from driving on Highway 443. The ruling should come into effect five months after being issued, allowing Palestinians to use the road. According to plans laid out by the Israeli Defence Forces to implement the court's ruling, Palestinian use of the road is seen to remain limited. In March 2013, the Israeli Afikim bus company announced that, as from 4 March 2013, it would be operating separate bus lines for Jews and Arabs in the occupied territories.\n\nAnglican Archbishop and Nobel Peace Prize winner Desmond Tutu has commented on the similarities between South Africa and Palestine and the importance of international pressure in ending apartheid in South Africa. He has drawn a parallel between the movement \"aiming to end Israeli occupation\" and the international pressure that helped end apartheid in South Africa, saying: \"If apartheid ended, so can the occupation, but the moral force and international pressure will have to be just as determined.\" Howard Friel writes that Desmond Tutu \"views the conditions in the occupied Palestinian territories as resembling apartheid in South Africa.\" BBC News reported in 2012 that Tutu \"accused Israel of practicing apartheid in its policies towards Palestinians.\" Both Friel and Israeli author Uri Davis have quoted the following comment from Tutu, published in the Guardian in 2002, in their own work: \"I was deeply distressed in my visit to the Holy Land; it reminded me so much of what has happened to us black people in South Africa.\" Davis has discussed the Tutu quote in his book \"Apartheid Israel: Possibilities for the Struggle Within\" where he has argued that \"fundamental apartheid structures of the Israeli polity\" with respect to property inheritance rights, access to state land and water resources and access to state welfare resources \"fully justify the classification of Israel as an apartheid State.\"\n\nOther prominent South African anti-apartheid activists have used apartheid comparisons to criticize the occupation of the West Bank, and particularly the construction of the separation barrier. These include Farid Esack, a writer who is currently William Henry Bloomberg Visiting Professor at Harvard Divinity School, Ronnie Kasrils, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, Dennis Goldberg, and Arun Ghandhi,\n\nIn 2008 a delegation of African National Congress (ANC) veterans visited Israel and the Occupied Territories, and said that in some respects it was worse than apartheid. In May 2018, in the aftermath of the Gaza border protests, the ANC issued a statement comparing the actions of Palestinians to \"our struggle against the apartheid regime\". It also accused the Israeli military of \"the same cruelty\" as Hitler, and stated that \"all South Africans must rise up and treat Israel like the pariah that it is\". Around the same time, the South African government withdrew indefinitely its Ambassador to Israel, Sisa Ngombane, to protest \"the indiscriminate and grave manner of the latest Israeli attack\".\n\nHuman rights lawyer Fatima Hassan, a member of the 2008 ANC delegation, cited the separate roads, different registration of cars, the indignity of having to produce a permit, and long queues at checkpoints as worse than what they had experienced during apartheid. But she also thought the apartheid comparison was a potential \"red herring\":\"... the context is different and the debate on whether this is Apartheid or not deflects from the real issue of occupation, encroachment of more land, building of the wall and the indignity of the occupation and the conduct of the military and police. I saw the check point at Nablus, I met with Palestinians in Hebron, I met the villagers who are against the wall—I met Israeli's and Palestinians who have lost family members, their land and homes. They have not lost hope though—and they believe in a joint struggle against the occupation and are willing in non-violent means to transform the daily direct and indirect forms of injustice and violence. To sum up—there is a transgression that is continuing unabated–call it what you want, apartheid/separation/closure/security—it remains a transgression\".\n\nGideon Shimoni, professor emeritus of Hebrew University, has said that the analogy is defamatory and say it reflects a double standard when applied to Israel and not to neighboring Arab countries, whose policies towards their own Palestinian minorities have been described as discriminatory. He has said that while apartheid was characterized by racially based legal inequality and exploitation of Black Africans by the dominant Whites within a common society, the Israel–Palestinian conflict reflects \"separate nationalisms,\" in which Israel refuses exploitation of Palestinians and on the contrary seeks separation and \"divorce\" from Palestinians for legitimate self-defense reasons. \n\nSasha Polakow-Suransky notes that Israel's labour policies are very different from those of apartheid-era South Africa, and that Israel has never enacted miscegenation laws, and that liberation movements in South Africa and Palestine have had different \"aspirations and tactics.\" This notwithstanding, he argues that the apartheid analogy is likely to gain further legitimacy in coming years unless Israel moves to dismantle West Bank settlements and create a viable Palestinian state. Polakow-Suransky also writes that the response of Israel's defenders to the analogy since 2007 has been \"knee-jerk\" and based on \"vitriol and recycled propaganda\" rather than an honest assessment of the situation.\n\nIrwin Cotler, a former lawyer for Nelson Mandela, said it was anti-semitic to call Israel an apartheid state because \"it involves a call for \"dismantling\" Israel.\" He links this to efforts to delegitimize the Jewish State.\n\nCanadian political scientist Anne Bayefsky wrote that the apartheid label was used by Arab states at the Durban World Conference on Racism in 2001 was part of a campaign to delegitimize Israel and to legitimize violence against Israeli citizens.\n\nThree sitting Israeli premiers have warned that Israel could become like apartheid South Africa. Israel's first prime minister, David Ben Gurion, warned in 1967 following the Six-Day War that Israel would become an apartheid state if it did not rid itself of the occupied territories as soon as possible. Prime minister Yizhak Rabin warned in 1976 that Israel would become an apartheid state if it annexed and absorbed the West Bank's Arab population. Prime minister Ehud Olmert in 2007 warned that if the two-state solution collapsed, Israel would \"face a South African-style struggle for equal voting rights, and as soon as that happens, the state of Israel is finished\".\n\nIn 2014, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry warned that if Israel did not make peace soon, under a two-state solution, it could become an apartheid state. In response to Kerry's statement, former South African state president F. W. de Klerk said: \"You have Palestinians living in Israel with full political rights. You don’t have discriminatory laws against them, I mean not letting them swim on certain beaches or anything like that. I think it's unfair to call Israel an apartheid state. If Kerry did so, I think he made a mistake.\"\n\nIn March 2011, Toronto Mayor Rob Ford has said that he will not allow city funding for the 2011 Toronto Pride Parade if organizers allow the group Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) march again this year. \"Taxpayers dollars should not go toward funding hate speech,\" Ford said. However, in April 2011, the city manager reported to the city's executive committee that the use of the phrase 'Israeli apartheid' does not violate the City's Anti-discrimination policy, nor does it constitute discrimination under the Canadian Criminal Code or the Ontario Human Rights Code.\n\nIn June 2012, the Toronto city council voted to condemn the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\", as part of a resolution recognizing the gay Pride Toronto parade as a \"significant cultural event that strongly promotes the ideals of tolerance and diversity\". The resolution said it slams the term Israel Apartheid for undermining the values of Pride and diminishing \"the suffering experienced by individuals during the apartheid regime in South Africa\".\n\nFormer US Ambassador to the United Nations (June 1975 – February 1976), Daniel Patrick Moynihan voiced the strong disagreement of the United States with the General Assembly's resolution declaring that \"Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination\" in 1975 stated that unlike apartheid, Zionism is clearly not a racist ideology. He said that racist ideologies such as apartheid favor discrimination on the grounds of alleged biological differences, yet few people are as biologically heterogeneous as the Jews.\n\n\nhttps://www.academia.edu/1804615/Lily_White_Feminism_and_Academic_Apartheid_in_Israel_Anthropological_Perspectives\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5142662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5142662", "title": "Italian Fascism", "text": "Italian Fascism\n\nItalian Fascism (), also known as Classical Fascism or simply Fascism, is the original fascist ideology as developed in Italy. The ideology is associated with a series of three political parties led by Benito Mussolini: the Fascist Revolutionary Party (PFR) founded in 1915, the succeeding National Fascist Party (PNF) which was renamed at the Third Fascist Congress on 7–10 November 1921 and ruled the Kingdom of Italy from 1922 until 1943 and the Republican Fascist Party that ruled the Italian Social Republic from 1943 to 1945. Italian Fascism is also associated with the post-war Italian Social Movement and subsequent Italian neo-fascist movements.\n\nItalian Fascism was rooted in Italian nationalism, national syndicalism, revolutionary nationalism, and the desire to restore and expand Italian territories, which Italian Fascists deemed necessary for a nation to assert its superiority and strength and to avoid succumbing to decay. Italian Fascists also claimed that modern Italy is the heir to ancient Rome and its legacy and historically supported the creation of an Italian Empire to provide \"spazio vitale\" (\"living space\") for colonization by Italian settlers and to establish control over the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nItalian Fascism promoted a corporatist economic system whereby employer and employee syndicates are linked together in associations to collectively represent the nation's economic producers and work alongside the state to set national economic policy. This economic system intended to resolve class conflict through collaboration between the classes.\n\nItalian Fascism opposed liberalism, especially classical liberalism that Mussolini and Fascist leaders denounced as \"the debacle of individualism\", but rather than seeking a reactionary restoration of the pre-French Revolutionary world, which it considered to have been flawed, it had a forward-looking direction. It was opposed to Marxist socialism because of its typical opposition to nationalism, but was also opposed to the reactionary conservatism developed by Joseph de Maistre. It believed the success of Italian nationalism required respect for tradition and a clear sense of a shared past among the Italian people, alongside a commitment to a modernised Italy.\n\nWhile fascism in Italy did not initially espouse the explicit Nordicism and antisemitism inherent to Nazi ideology, racist overtones were present in fascist thought and policies from the beginning of fascist rule of Italy. As Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany grew politically closer in the latter half of the 1930s, Italian laws and policies became explicitly antisemitic, including the passage of the Italian Racial Laws.\n\nItalian Fascism is based upon Italian nationalism and in particular seeks to complete what it considers as the incomplete project of \"Risorgimento\" by incorporating \"Italia Irredenta\" (\"unredeemed Italy\") into the state of Italy. The National Fascist Party (PNF) founded in 1921 declared that the party was to serve as \"a revolutionary militia placed at the service of the nation. It follows a policy based on three principles: order, discipline, hierarchy\".\n\nIt identifies modern Italy as the heir to the Roman Empire and Italy during the Renaissance and promotes the cultural identity of \"Romanitas\" (\"Roman-ness\"). Italian Fascism historically sought to forge a strong Italian Empire as a \"Third Rome\", identifying ancient Rome as the \"First Rome\" and Renaissance-era Italy as the \"Second Rome\". Italian Fascism has emulated ancient Rome and Mussolini in particular emulated ancient Roman leaders, such as Julius Caesar as a model for the Fascists' rise to power and Augustus as a model for empire-building. Italian Fascism has directly promoted imperialism, such as within the \"Doctrine of Fascism\" (1932), ghostwritten by Giovanni Gentile on behalf of Mussolini: \n\nFascism emphasized the need for the restoration of the Mazzinian \"Risorgimento\" tradition that pursued the unification of Italy, that the Fascists claimed had been left incomplete and abandoned in the Giolittian-era Italy. Fascism sought the incorporation of claimed \"unredeemed\" territories to Italy.\n\nTo the east of Italy, the Fascists claimed that Dalmatia was a land of Italian culture whose Italians, including those of Italianized South Slavic descent, had been driven out of Dalmatia and into exile in Italy, and supported the return of Italians of Dalmatian heritage. Mussolini identified Dalmatia as having strong Italian cultural roots for centuries via the Roman Empire and the Republic of Venice. The Fascists especially focused their claims based on the Venetian cultural heritage of Dalmatia, claiming that Venetian rule had been beneficial for all Dalmatians and had been accepted by the Dalmatian population. The Fascists were outraged after World War I, when the agreement between Italy and the Entente Allies in the Treaty of London of 1915 to have Dalmatia join Italy was revoked in 1919. The Fascist regime supported annexation of Yugoslavia's region of Slovenia into Italy that already held a portion of the Slovene population, whereby Slovenia would become an Italian province, resulting in a quarter of Slovene ethnic territory and approximately 327,000 out of total population of 1.3 million Slovenes being subjected to forced Italianization. The Fascist regime imposed mandatory Italianization upon the German and South Slavic populations living within Italy's borders. The Fascist regime abolished the teaching of minority German and Slavic languages in schools, German and Slavic language newspapers were shut down and geographical and family names in areas of German or Slavic languages were to be Italianized. This resulted in significant violence against South Slavs deemed to be resisting Italianization. The Fascist regime supported annexation of Albania, claimed that Albanians were ethnically linked to Italians through links with the prehistoric Italiotes, Illyrian and Roman populations and that the major influence exerted by the Roman and Venetian empires over Albania justified Italy's right to possess it. The Fascist regime also justified the annexation of Albania on the basis that\"—\"because several hundred thousand people of Albanian descent had been absorbed into society in southern Italy already\"—\"the incorporation of Albania was a reasonable measure that would unite people of Albanian descent into one state. The Fascist regime endorsed Albanian irredentism, directed against the predominantly Albanian-populated Kosovo and Epirus – particularly in Chameria inhabited by a substantial number of Albanians. After Italy annexed Albania in 1939, the Fascist regime endorsed assimilating Albanians into Italians and colonizing Albania with Italian settlers from the Italian Peninsula to gradually transform it into an Italian land. The Fascist regime claimed the Ionian Islands as Italian territory on the basis that the islands had belonged to the Venetian Republic from the mid-14th until the late 18th century.\n\nTo the west of Italy, the Fascists claimed that the territories of Corsica, Nice and Savoy held by France were Italian lands. During the period of Italian unification in 1860 to 1861, Prime Minister of Piedmont-Sardinia, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, who was leading the unification effort, faced opposition from French Emperor Napoleon III who indicated that France would oppose Italian unification unless France was given Nice and Savoy that were held by Piedmont Sardinia, as France did not want a powerful state having control of all the passages of the Alps. As a result, Piedmont-Sardinia was pressured to concede Nice and Savoy to France in exchange for France accepting the unification of Italy. The Fascist regime produced literature on Corsica that presented evidence of the \"italianità\" of the island. The Fascist regime produced literature on Nice that justified that Nice was an Italian land based on historic, ethnic and linguistic grounds. The Fascists quoted Medieval Italian scholar Petrarch who said: \"The border of Italy is the Var; consequently Nice is a part of Italy\". The Fascists quoted Italian national hero Giuseppe Garibaldi who said: \"Corsica and Nice must not belong to France; there will come the day when an Italy mindful of its true worth will reclaim its provinces now so shamefully languishing under foreign domination\". Mussolini initially pursued promoting annexation of Corsica through political and diplomatic means, believing that Corsica could be annexed to Italy through first encouraging the existing autonomist tendencies in Corsica and then independence of Corsica from France, that would be followed by annexation of Corsica into Italy.\n\nTo the north of Italy, the Fascist regime in the 1930s had designs on the largely Italian-populated region of Ticino and the Romansch-populated region of Graubünden in Switzerland (the Romansch are a people with a Latin-based language). In November 1938, Mussolini declared to the Grand Fascist Council: \"We shall bring our border to the Gotthard Pass\". The Fascist regime accused the Swiss government of oppressing the Romansch people in Graubünden. Mussolini argued that Romansch was an Italian dialect and thus Graubünden should be incorporated into Italy. Ticino was also claimed because the region had belonged to the Duchy of Milan from the mid-fourteenth century until 1515, as well as being inhabited by Italian speakers of Italian ethnicity. Claim was also raised on the basis that areas now part of Graubünden in the Mesolcina valley and Hinterrhein were held by the Milanese Trivulzio family, who ruled from the Mesocco Castle in the late 15th century. Also during the summer of 1940, Galeazzo Ciano met with Hitler and Ribbentrop and proposed to them the dissection of Switzerland along the central chain of the Western Alps, which would have left Italy also with the canton of Valais in addition to the claims raised earlier.\n\nTo the south, the regime claimed the archipelago of Malta, which had been held by the British since 1800. Mussolini claimed that the Maltese language was a dialect of Italian and theories about Malta being the cradle of the Latin civilization were promoted. Italian had been widely used in Malta in the literary, scientific and legal fields and it was one of Malta's official languages until 1937 when its status was abolished by the British as a response to Italy's invasion of Ethiopia. Italian irredentists had claimed that territories on the coast of North Africa were Italy's Fourth Shore and used the historical Roman rule in North Africa as a precedent to justify the incorporation of such territories to Italian jurisdiction as being a \"return\" of Italy to North Africa. In January 1939, Italy annexed territories in Libya that it considered within Italy's Fourth Shore, with Libya's four coastal provinces of Tripoli, Misurata, Benghazi and Derna becoming an integral part of metropolitan Italy. At the same time, indigenous Libyans were given the ability to apply for \"Special Italian Citizenship\" which required such people to be literate in the Italian language and confined this type of citizenship to be valid in Libya only. Tunisia that had been taken by France as a protectorate in 1881 had the highest concentration of Italians in North Africa and its seizure by France had been viewed as an injury to national honour in Italy at what they perceived as a \"loss\" of Tunisia from Italian plans to incorporate it. Upon entering World War II, Italy declared its intention to seize Tunisia as well as the province of Constantine of Algeria from France.\n\nTo the south, the Fascist regime held an interest in expanding Italy's African colonial possessions. In the 1920s, Italy regarded Portugal as a weak country that was unbecoming of a colonial power due to its weak hold on its colonies and mismanagement of them and as such Italy desired to annexe Portugal's colonies. Italy's relations with Portugal were influenced by the rise to power of the authoritarian conservative nationalist regime of Salazar, which borrowed fascist methods, though Salazar upheld Portugal's traditional alliance with Britain.\n\nIn a 1921 speech in Bologna, Mussolini stated that \"Fascism was born... out of a profound, perennial need of this our Aryan and Mediterranean race\". In this speech, Mussolini was referring to Italians as being the Mediterranean branch of the Aryan Race, Aryan in the meaning of people of an Indo-European language and culture. Italian Fascism emphasized that race was bound by spiritual and cultural foundations and identified a racial hierarchy based on spiritual and cultural factors. While Italian Fascism based its conception of race on spiritual and cultural factors, Mussolini explicitly rejected notions that biologically \"pure\" races were still considered a relevant factor in racial classification. He claimed that \"italianità\" had assimilatory capacity. It used spiritual and cultural conceptions of race to make land claims on Dalmatia and to justify an Italian sphere of influence in the Balkans based on then-present and historical Italian cultural influence in the Balkans. The Fascist regime justified colonialism in Africa by claiming that the spiritual and cultural superiority of Italians as part of the white race, justified the right for Italy and other powers of the white race to rule over the black race, while asserting the racial segregation of whites and blacks in its colonies. It claimed that Fascism's colonial goals were to civilize the inferior races and defend the purity of Western civilization from racial miscegenation that it claimed would harm the intellectual qualities of the white race. It claimed that the white race needed to increase its natality in order to avoid being overtaken by the black and yellow races that were multiplying at a faster rate than whites.\nWithin Italy, the Italian Empire and territory identified as \"spazio vitale\" for Italy a cultural-racial hierarchy that ranked the peoples in terms of value who lived there was clearly defined by 1940, during which plans for Italy's \"spazio vitale\" were being formalized by the regime. The Fascist regime considered Italians to be superior to other peoples of the Mediterranean region – including Latin, Slavic and Hellenic peoples – because only Italians had achieved racial unity and full political consciousness via the Fascist regime. Latin, Slavic and Hellenic peoples were regarded as superior to Turkic, Semitic and Hamitic peoples. Amongst indigenous peoples of Africa, the racial hierarchy regarded indigenous North Africans as superior to indigenous people in Italian East Africa.\n\nThough believing in the racial superiority of Europeans over non-Europeans, the Fascist regime displayed diplomatic courtesy to non-Europeans. The regime held an alliance with Japan within the Tripartite Pact between Germany, Italy and Japan. Indian independence movement leader Mahatma Gandhi visited Italy in 1931 and was invited by Mussolini for a personal visit, providing Gandhi full diplomatic courtesy. Fascist official Italo Balbo during his transatlantic flight from Italy to the United States in 1933 visited with leaders of the Sioux tribe and accepted the Sioux's honorary bestowing of his incorporation into the Sioux with the Sioux position and name \"Chief Flying Eagle\".\n\nItalian Fascism strongly rejected the common Nordicist conception of the Aryan Race that idealized \"pure\" Aryans as having certain physical traits that were defined as Nordic such as blond hair and blue eyes. Nordicism was divisive because Italians – and especially southern Italians - had faced discrimination from Nordicist proponents in countries like the United States out of the view that non-Nordic southern Europeans were inferior to Nordics. In Italy, the influence of Nordicism had a divisive effect in which the influence resulted in Northern Italians who regarded themselves to have Nordic racial heritage considered themselves a civilized people while negatively regarding Southern Italians as biologically inferior. At least some of the stereotypes about Southern Italians were created by Cesare Lombroso, an Italian Jewish criminologist and anthropologist of Sephardic descent. For his controversial theories, Lombroso was expelled from the Italian Society of Anthropology and Ethnology in 1882 and the Lombrosian doctrine is currently considered pseudoscientific.\n\nMussolini and other Fascists held antipathy to Nordicism because of what they viewed as an inferiority complex of people of Mediterranean racial heritage that they claimed had been instilled into Mediterranean people by the propagation of such theories by German and Anglo-Saxon Nordicists who viewed Mediterranean peoples as racially degenerate and thus in their view inferior. However, traditional Nordicist claims of Mediterraneans being degenerate due to having a darker colour of skin than Nordics had long been rebuked in anthropology through the depigmentation theory that claimed that lighter skinned peoples had been depigmented from a darker skin, this theory has since become a widely accepted view in anthropology. Anthropologist Carleton S. Coon in his work \"The races of Europe\" (1939) subscribed to depigmentation theory that claimed that Nordic race's light-coloured skin was the result of depigmentation from their ancestors of the Mediterranean race. Mussolini refused to allow Italy to return again to this inferiority complex, initially rejecting Nordicism.\n\nIn the early 1930s, with the rise to power of the Nazi Party in Germany with \"Führer\" Adolf Hitler's staunch emphasis on a Nordicist conception of the Aryan Race, strong tensions arose between the Fascists and the Nazis over racial issues, as Hitler regarded Northern Italians to be strongly Aryan, but not Southern Italians. The Nazis regarded the ancient Romans to have been largely a people of the Mediterranean race, though they claimed that the Roman ruling classes were Nordic, descended from Aryan conquerors from the North and that this Nordic Aryan minority was responsible for the rise of Roman civilization. The Nazis viewed the downfall of the Roman Empire as being the result of the deterioration of the purity of the Nordic Aryan ruling class through its intermixing with the inferior Mediterranean types that led to the empire's decay. In addition, racial intermixing in the population in general was also blamed for Rome's downfall, claiming that Italians as a whole were a hybrid of races, including black African races. Due to the darker complexion of Mediterranean peoples, Hitler regarded them as having traces of Negroid blood and therefore were not pure Aryans and inferior to those without such heritage. Hitler praised post-Roman era achievements of northern Italians such as Sandro Botticelli, Michelangelo, Dante Alighieri and Benito Mussolini. The Nazis ascribed the great achievements of post-Roman era northern Italians to the presence of Nordic racial heritage in such people who via their Nordic heritage had Germanic ancestors, such as Nazi ideologist Alfred Rosenberg recognizing Michelangelo and Leonardo da Vinci as exemplary Nordic men of history. However, the Nazis did claim that aside from biologically Nordic people that a Nordic soul could inhabit a non-Nordic body. Hitler emphasized the role of Germanic influence in Northern Italy, such as stating that the art of Northern Italy was \"nothing but pure German\".\n\nIn 1934 in the aftermath of Austrian Nazis killing Austrian Chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, an ally of Italy, Mussolini became enraged and responded by angrily denouncing Nazism. Mussolini rebuked Nazism's Nordicism, claiming that the Nazis' emphasizing of a common Nordic \"Germanic race\" was absurd by saying that \"a Germanic race does not exist. ... We repeat. Does not exist. Scientists say so. Hitler says so\". The fact that Germans were not purely Nordic was indeed acknowledged by prominent Nazi racial theorist Hans F. K. Günther in his book \"Rassenkunde des deutschen Volkes\" (1922) (\"Racial Science of the German People\"), where Günther recognized Germans as being composed of five racial types: Nordic, Mediterranean, Dinaric, Alpine and East Baltic while asserting that the Nordics were the highest in a racial hierarchy of the five types.\n\nBy 1936, the tensions between Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany reduced and relations became more amicable. In 1936, Mussolini decided to launch a racial programme in Italy and was interested in the racial studies being conducted by Giulio Cogni. Cogni was a Nordicist, but did not equate Nordic identity with Germanic identity as was commonly done by German Nordicists. Cogni had travelled to Germany where he had become impressed by Nazi racial theory and sought to create his own version of racial theory. On 11 September 1936, Cogni sent Mussolini a copy of his newly published book \"Il Razzismo\" (1936). Cogni declared the racial affinity of the Mediterranean and Nordic racial subtypes of the Aryan race and claimed that the intermixing of Nordic Aryans and Mediterranean Aryans in Italy produced a superior synthesis of Aryan Italians. Cogni addressed the issue of racial differences between northern and southern Italians, declaring Southern Italians were mixed between Aryan and non-Aryan races, which he claimed was most likely due to infiltration by Asiatic peoples in Roman times and later Arab invasions. As such, Cogni viewed Southern Italian Mediterraneans as being polluted with orientalizing tendencies. He would later change his idea and claim that Nordics and Southern Italians were closely related groups both racially and spiritually, as they were generally responsible for what is the best in European civilization. Initially, Mussolini was not impressed with Cogni's work, but Cogni's ideas entered into the official Fascist racial policy several years later.\n\nIn 1938, Mussolini was concerned that if Italian Fascism did not recognize Nordic heritage within Italians, then the Mediterranean inferiority complex would return to Italian society. Therefore, in summer 1938, the Fascist government officially recognized Italians as having Nordic heritage and being of Nordic-Mediterranean descent and in a meeting with PNF members. In June 1938 in a meeting with PNF members, Mussolini identified himself as Nordic and declared that previous policy of focus on Mediterraneanism was to be replaced by a focus on Aryanism.\n\nThe Fascist regime began publication of the racialist magazine \"La Difesa della Razza\" in 1938. The Nordicist racial theorist Guido Landra took a major role in the early work of \"La Difesa\" and published the \"Manifesto of Racial Scientists\" in the magazine in 1938.\n\nThe \"Manifesto\" directly addressed its conception of racism and emphasized its autonomy from German racial theories by stating:\nThe emphasis in the \"Manifesto\" on a psychological model of a superior human being was in reference to the Italian antisemitic racial theorists Giovanni Papini and Paolo Orano that stated that those Jews who had associated themselves as being Italian were examples of inferior psychological types that were characterized by moral abjection, falseness and cowardice that could not be associated with the Italian community. After Article 7 of the \"Manifesto\", the remainder claimed that peoples of the Oriental race, African races and Jews, as not belonging to the Italian race; and in Article 10 declared that the physical and psychological characteristics of the Italian people must not be altered by crossbreeding with non-European races.\n\nThe \"Manifesto\" received substantial criticism, including its assertion of Italians being a \"pure race\", as critics viewed the notion as absurd. \"La Difesa\" published other theories that described long-term Nordic Aryan amongst Italians, such as the theory that in the Eneolithic age Nordic Aryans arrived in Italy. Many of the writers of \"La Difesa della Razza\" took up the traditional Nordicist claim that the decline and fall of the Roman Empire was due to the arrival of Semitic immigrants. \"La Difesa\"'s writers were divided on their claims that described how Italians extricated themselves from Semitic influence.\n\nThe Nordicist direction of Fascist racial policy was challenged in 1938 by a resurgence of the Mediterranean faction in the PNF. By 1939, the Mediterraneanists advocated a nativist racial theory which rejected ascribing the achievements of the Italian people to Nordic peoples. This nativist racial policy was prominently promoted by Ugo Rellini. Rellini rejected the notion of large scale invasions of Italy by Nordic Aryans in the Eneolithic age and claimed that Italians were an indigenous people descended from the Cro-Magnons. Rellini claimed that Mediterranean and later Nordic peoples arrived and peacefully intermixed in small numbers with the indigenous Italian population.\n\nIn 1941, the PNF's Mediterraneanists through the influence of Giacomo Acerbo put forward a comprehensive definition of the Italian race. However, these efforts were challenged by Mussolini's endorsement of Nordicist figures with the appointment of staunch spiritual Nordicist Alberto Luchini as head of Italy's Racial Office in May 1941, as well as with Mussolini becoming interested with Julius Evola's spiritual Nordicism in late 1941. Acerbo and the Mediterraneanists in his High Council on Demography and Race sought to bring the regime back to supporting Mediterraneanism by thoroughly denouncing the pro-Nordicist \"Manifesto of the Racial Scientists\". The Council recognized Aryans as being a linguistic-based group and condemned the \"Manifesto\" for denying the influence of pre-Aryan civilization on modern Italy, saying that the \"Manifesto\" \"constitutes an unjustifiable and undemonstrable negation of the anthropological, ethnological, and archaeological discoveries that have occurred and are occurring in our country\". Furthermore, the Council denounced the \"Manifesto\" for \"implicitly\" crediting Germanic invaders of Italy in the guise of the Lombards for having \"a formative influence on the Italian race in a disproportional degree to the number of invaders and to their biological predominance\". The Council claimed that the obvious superiority of the ancient Greeks and Romans in comparison with the ancient Germanic tribes made it inconceivable that Italian culture owed a debt to ancient Aryan Germans. The Council denounced the \"Manifesto\"'s Nordicist supremacist attitude towards Mediterraneans that it claimed was \"considering them as slaves\" and was \"a repudiation of the entire Italian civilization\".\n\nIn his early years as Fascist leader, while Mussolini harboured negative stereotypes of Jews he did not hold a firm stance on Jews and his official stances oscillated and shifted to meet the political demands of the various factions of the Fascist movement, rather than having any concrete stance. Mussolini had held antisemitic beliefs prior to becoming a Fascist, such as in a 1908 essay on the topic of Nietzsche's Übermensch, in which Mussolini condemned \"pallid Judeans\" for \"wrecking\" the Roman Empire; and in 1913 as editor of the Italian Socialist Party's (PSI) \"Avanti!\" newspaper again wrote about the Jews having caused havoc in ancient Rome. Although Mussolini held these negative attitudes, he was aware that Italian Jews were a deeply integrated and small community in Italy who were by and large perceived favourably in Italy for fighting valiantly for Italy in World War I. Of the 117 original members of the \"Fasci Italiani di Combattimento\" founded on 23 March 1919, five were Jewish. Since the movement's early years, there were a small number of prominent openly antisemitic Fascists such as Roberto Farinacci. There were also prominent Fascists who completely rejected antisemitism, such as Italo Balbo who lived in Ferrara that had a substantial Jewish community that was accepted and antisemitic incidents were rare in the city.\n\nIn response to his observation of large numbers of Jews amongst the Bolsheviks and claims (that were later confirmed to be true) that the Bolsheviks and Germany (that Italy was fighting in World War I) were politically connected, Mussolini said antisemitic statements involving the Bolshevik-German connection as being an \"unholy alliance between Hindenburg and the synagogue\". Mussolini came to believe rumours that Bolshevik leader Vladimir Lenin was of Jewish descent. In an article in \"Il Popolo d'Italia\" in June 1919, Mussolini wrote a highly antisemitic analysis on the situation in Europe involving Bolshevism following the October Revolution, the Russian Civil War and war in Hungary involving the Hungarian Soviet Republic.\n\nThis statement by Mussolini on a Jewish-Bolshevik-plutocratic connection and conspiracy was met with opposition in the Fascist movement, resulting in Mussolini responding to this opposition amongst his supporters by abandoning this stance shortly afterwards in 1919. Upon abandoning this stance due to opposition to it, Mussolini no longer said his previous assertion that Bolshevism was Jewish, but warned that due to the large numbers of Jews in the Bolshevik movement the rise of Bolshevism in Russia would result in a ferocious wave of antisemitism in Russia. He then claimed that \"antisemitism is foreign to the Italian people\", but warned Zionists that they should be careful not to stir up antisemitism in \"the only country where it has not existed\".\n\nMargherita Sarfatti was an influential Jewish member of the PNF whom Mussolini had known since he and her had been members of the PSI and she had been his mistress and helped write \"Dux\" (1926), a biography of Mussolini. One of the Jewish financial supporters of the Fascist movement was Toeplitz, whom Mussolini had earlier accused of being a traitor during World War I. Another prominent Jewish Italian Fascist was Ettore Ovazza, who was a staunch Italian nationalist and an opponent of Zionism in Italy. 230 Italian Jews took part in the Fascists' March on Rome in 1922. In the early 1920s, Mussolini was cautious on topics of Italian Jewish financiers that arose from time to time from antisemitic elements in the Fascist movement, while he regarded them as untrustworthy he believed that he could draw them to his side. In 1932, Mussolini made his private attitude about Jews known to the Austrian ambassador when discussing the issue by saying: \"I have no love for the Jews, but they have great influence everywhere. It is better to leave them alone. Hitler's antisemitism has already brought him more enemies than is necessary\".\n\nOn the eve of the March on Rome, the leadership of the PNF declared that \"a Jewish question does not exist in our country and let us hope that there never shall be one, at least not until Zionism poses Italian Jews with the dilemma of choosing between their Italian homeland and another homeland\". The relations between the regime and Jews as in those practicing the religion of Judaism was affected by the Fascists' accommodation of the Catholic Church beginning in the early 1920s in which it sought to remove previous provisions of equality of faiths and impose state support of the supremacy of Catholicism.\n\nIn 1928, frustration arose in the regime over Zionism in which Mussolini responded to the Italian Zionist Congress by publicly declaring a question to Italy's Jews on their self-identity: \"Are you a religion or are you a nation?\". Zionist and anti-Zionist Jews responded, the anti-Zionist Jews professed they were religious Jews as part of the Italian nation, while Zionist Jews declared that there was no dispute between Zionism and said that all Italian Jews held patriotic respect for Italy. Upon these responses arriving, Mussolini declared that these revealed that a Jewish problem existed in terms of Jewish identity in Italy as a result of conflicting national loyalties amongst Zionist Jews by saying: \nThe Fascists at this time were not wholly opposed to Zionism, but took an instrumental approach to it as they were hostile to it when it caused conflict in Italy with the country's Catholic community and when such Zionists were seen as associated with British interests, though they were favourable to Zionists who opposed the British and sought Italy's support as their protector. In the early 1930s, Mussolini held discussions with Zionist leadership figures over proposals to encourage the emigration of Italian Jews to the mandate of Palestine, as Mussolini hoped that the presence of pro-Italian Jews in the region would weaken pro-British sentiment and potentially overturn the British mandate.\n\nAt the 1934 Montreux Fascist conference chaired by the Italian-led \"Comitati d'Azione per l'Universalita di Roma\" (CAUR) that sought to found a Fascist International, the issue of antisemitism was debated amongst various fascist parties, with some more favourable to it and others less favourable. Two final compromises were adopted, creating the official stance of the Fascist International:\n\nIn a discussion with President of the World Zionist Organization Chaim Weizmann over requests for Italy to provide refuge for Jews fleeing Nazi Germany, Mussolini agreed that he would accept Jewish refugees, but warned Weizmann about consequences if such Jews harmed Italy by saying:\n\nItalian Fascism's attitudes towards Zionism and Jews in general underwent a shift in response to the Second Italo-Ethiopian War. At the outset of the war, Mussolini sought to gain favourable support for Italy's intervention in Ethiopia and appealed to Zionists by offering them a solution to the Jewish question, in which Italy would set aside a certain amount of territory from conquered Ethiopia to be a homeland for Jews. Mussolini claimed that territory from conquered Ethiopia would make an ideal homeland for the Jews, noting that there were large numbers of Falasha already living there who identified as Jews. However, Zionist leaders rejected this proposal by saying that they would only live in the Holy Land in the Levant. Mussolini viewed this as an offensive snub and responded in frustration saying: \"If Ethiopia is good enough for my Italians why isn't it good enough for you Jews?\". Afterwards, Mussolini's relations with the Zionist movement cooled and became aggravated with his observation that many Jews opposed the Italo-Ethiopian War, to which he responded:\n\nIn 1936, the Fascist regime began to promote racial antisemitism and Mussolini claimed that international Jewry had sided with Britain against Italy during Italy's war with Ethiopia. Historian Renzo De Felice believed that the Fascist regime's pursuit of alliance with Nazi Germany that began in 1936 explains the adoption of antisemitism as a pragmatic component of pursuit of that alliance. De Felice's interpretation has been challenged by H. Stuart Hughes, who has claimed that direct Nazi pressure to adopt antisemitic policy had little or no impact on Mussolini's decision. Hughes notes that the Fascist version of antisemitism was based on spiritualist considerations while eschewing anthropological or biological arguments, unlike the Nazi version of antisemitism. Italian Fascism adopted antisemitism in the late 1930s and Mussolini personally returned to invoke antisemitic statements as he had done earlier. The Fascist regime used antisemitic propaganda for the Spanish Civil War from 1937 to 1938 that emphasized that Italy was supporting Spain's Nationalist forces against a \"Jewish International\".\n\nIn 1938, Fascist Italy passed the Italian Racial Laws which forbid Jews from their citizenship and forbid sexual relations and marriages between Italians and Jews. The adoption of such racial laws was met with opposition from Fascist members including Balbo, who regarded antisemitism as having nothing to do with Fascism and staunchly opposed the antisemitic laws.\n\nIn 1925, the PNF declared that Italy's Fascist state was to be totalitarian. The term \"totalitarian\" had initially been used as a pejorative accusation by Italy's liberal opposition that denounced the Fascist movement for seeking to create a total dictatorship. However, the Fascists responded by accepting that they were totalitarian, but presented totalitarianism from a positive viewpoint. Mussolini described totalitarianism as seeking to forge an authoritarian national state that would be capable of completing \"Risorgimento\" of the \"Italia Irredenta\", forge a powerful modern Italy and create a new kind of citizen – politically active Fascist Italians.\n\nThe \"Doctrine of Fascism\" (1932) described the nature of Italian Fascism's totalitarianism, stating the following:\nAmerican journalist H. R. Knickerbocker wrote in 1941: \"Mussolini's Fascist state is the least terroristic of the three totalitarian states. The terror is so mild in comparison with the Soviet or Nazi varieties, that it almost fails to qualify as terroristic at all.\" As example he described an Italian journalist friend who refused to become a Fascist. He was fired from his newspaper and put under 24-hour surveillance, but otherwise not harassed; his employment contract was settled for a lump sum and he was allowed to work for the foreign press. Knickerbocker contrasted his treatment with the inevitable torture and execution under Stalin or Hitler, and stated \"you have a fair idea of the comparative mildness of the Italian kind of totalitarianism\".\n\nHowever, since World War II historians have noted that in Italy's colonies Italian Fascism displayed extreme levels of violence. The deaths of one-tenth of the population of the Italian colony of Libya occurred during the Fascist era, including from the use of gassings, concentration camps, starvation and disease; and in Ethiopia during the Second Italo-Ethiopian War and afterwards by 1938 a quarter of a million Ethiopians had died.\n\nItalian Fascism promoted a corporatist economic system. The economy involved employer and employee syndicates being linked together in corporative associations to collectively represent the nation's economic producers and work alongside the state to set national economic policy. Mussolini declared such economics as a \"Third Alternative\" to capitalism and Marxism that Italian Fascism regarded as \"obsolete doctrines\"; he said in 1935 that orthodox capitalism no longer existed in the country. Preliminary plans as of 1939 intended to divide the country into 22 \"corporations\", which would send representatives to Parliament from each industry.\n\nState permission was required for almost any business activity, such as ending employment or expanding a factory. All wages were set by the government. Restrictions on labor were, however, greater. While corporations still could earn profits, Italian Fascism supported criminalization of strikes by employees and lockouts by employers as illegal acts it deemed as prejudicial to the national community as a whole. Similar to the Bolsheviks in Soviet Russia, Mussolini nationalized all independent trade unions into one government-operated syndicate, mandating union members for every worker.\n\nThe Italian Fascists' political anthem was called \"Giovinezza\" (\"Youth\"). Fascism identifies the physical age period of youth as a critical time for the moral development of people that will affect society.\n\nItalian Fascism pursued what it called \"moral hygiene\" of youth, particularly regarding sexuality. Fascist Italy promoted what it considered normal sexual behaviour in youth while denouncing what it considered deviant sexual behaviour. It condemned pornography, most forms of birth control and contraceptive devices (with the exception of the condom), homosexuality and prostitution as deviant sexual behaviour. Fascist Italy regarded the promotion of male sexual excitation before puberty as the cause of criminality amongst male youth. Fascist Italy reflected the belief of most Italians that homosexuality was wrong. Instead of the traditional Catholic teaching that it was a sin, a new approach was taken, based on then-modern psychoanalysis, that it was a social disease. Fascist Italy pursued an aggressive campaign to reduce prostitution of young women.\n\nMussolini perceived women's primary role to be childbearers while men were warriors, once saying that \"war is to man what maternity is to the woman\". In an effort to increase birthrates, the Italian Fascist government gave financial incentives to women who raised large families and initiated policies designed to reduce the number of women employed. Italian Fascism called for women to be honoured as \"reproducers of the nation\" and the Italian Fascist government held ritual ceremonies to honour women's role within the Italian nation. In 1934, Mussolini declared that employment of women was a \"major aspect of the thorny problem of unemployment\" and that for women working was \"incompatible with childbearing\". Mussolini went on to say that the solution to unemployment for men was the \"exodus of women from the work force\". Although the initial Fascist Manifesto contained a reference to universal suffrage, this broad opposition to feminism meant that when it granted women the right to vote in 1925 it was limited purely to voting in local elections.\n\nItalian Fascism believed that the success of Italian nationalism required a clear sense of a shared past amongst the Italian people along with a commitment to a modernized Italy. In a famous speech in 1926, Mussolini called for Fascist art that was \"traditionalist and at the same time modern, that looks to the past and at the same time to the future\".\n\nTraditional symbols of Roman civilization were utilized by the Fascists, particularly the fasces that symbolized unity, authority and the exercise of power. Other traditional symbols of ancient Rome used by the Fascists included the she-wolf of Rome. The fasces and the she-wolf symbolized the shared Roman heritage of all the regions that constituted the Italian nation. In 1926, the fasces was adopted by the Fascist government of Italy as a symbol of the state. In that year, the Fascist government attempted to have the Italian national flag redesigned to incorporate the fasces on it. However, this attempt to incorporate the fasces on the flag was stopped by strong opposition to the proposal by Italian monarchists. Afterwards, the Fascist government in public ceremonies rose the national tricolour flag along with a Fascist black flag. However, years later and after Mussolini was forced from power by the King in 1943 only to be rescued by German forces, the Italian Social Republic founded by Mussolini and the Fascists did incorporate the fasces on the state's war flag, which was a variant of the Italian tricolour national flag.\n\nThe issue of the rule of monarchy or republic in Italy was an issue that changed several times through the development of Italian Fascism, as initially Italian Fascism was republican and denounced the Savoy monarchy. However, Mussolini tactically abandoned republicanism in 1922 and recognized that the acceptance of the monarchy was a necessary compromise to gain the support of the establishment to challenge the liberal constitutional order that also supported the monarchy. King Victor Emmanuel III had become a popular ruler in the aftermath of Italy's gains after World War I and the army held close loyalty to the King, thus any idea of overthrowing the monarchy was discarded as foolhardy by the Fascists at this point. Importantly, Fascism's recognition of monarchy provided Fascism with a sense of historical continuity and legitimacy. The Fascists publicly identified King Victor Emmanuel II – the first King of a reunited Italy who had initiated the \"Risorgimento\" – along with other historic Italian figures such as Gaius Marius, Julius Caesar, Giuseppe Mazzini, Camillo Benso, Count of Cavour, Giuseppe Garibaldi and others, for being within a tradition of dictatorship in Italy that the Fascists declared that they emulated. However, this compromise with the monarchy did not yield a cordial relationship between the King and Mussolini. Although Mussolini had formally accepted the monarchy, he pursued and largely achieved reducing the power of the King to that of a figurehead. The King initially held complete nominal legal authority over the military through the \"Statuto Albertino\", but this was ended during the Fascist regime when Mussolini created the position of First Marshal of the Empire in 1938, a two-person position of control over the military held by both the King and the head of government that had the effect of eliminating the King's previously exclusive legal authority over the military by giving Mussolini equal legal authority to the King over the military. In the 1930s, Mussolini became aggravated by the monarchy's continued existence due to envy of the fact that his counterpart in Germany Adolf Hitler was both head of state and head of government of a republic; and Mussolini in private denounced the monarchy and indicated that he had plans to dismantle the monarchy and create a republic with himself as head of state of Italy upon an Italian success in the then-anticipated major war about to erupt in Europe.\n\nAfter being removed from office and placed under arrest by the King in 1943, with the Kingdom of Italy's new non-fascist government switching sides from the Axis to the Allies, Italian Fascism returned to republicanism and condemnation of the monarchy. On 18 September 1943, Mussolini made his first public address to the Italian people since his rescue from arrest by allied German forces, in which he commended the loyalty of Hitler as an ally while condemning King Victor Emmanuel III of the Kingdom of Italy for betraying Italian Fascism. On the topic of the monarchy removing him from power and dismantling the Fascist regime, Mussolini stated: \"It is not the regime that has betrayed the monarchy, it is the monarchy that has betrayed the regime\" and that \"When a monarchy fails in its duties, it loses every reason for being...The state we want to establish will be national and social in the highest sense of the word; that is, it will be Fascist, thus returning to our origins\". The Fascists at this point did not denounce the House of Savoy in the entirety of its history and credited Victor Emmanuel II for his rejection of \"scornfully dishonourable pacts\" and denounced Victor Emmanuel III for betraying Victor Emmanuel II by entering a dishonourable pact with the Allies.\n\nThe relationship between Italian Fascism and the Catholic Church was mixed, as originally was highly anti-clerical and hostile to Catholicism, though from the mid to late 1920s anti-clericalism lost ground in the movement as Mussolini in power sought to seek accord with the Church as the Church held major influence in Italian society with most Italians being Catholic. In 1929, the Italian government signed the Lateran Treaty with the Holy See, a concordat between Italy and the Catholic Church that allowed for the creation of a small enclave known as Vatican City as a sovereign state representing the papacy. This ended years of perceived alienation between the Church and the Italian government after Italy annexed the Papal States in 1870. Italian Fascism justified its adoption of antisemitic laws in 1938 by claiming that Italy was fulfilling the Christian religious mandate of the Catholic Church that had been initiated by Pope Innocent III in the Fourth Lateran Council of 1215, whereby the Pope issued strict regulation of the life of Jews in Christian lands. Jews were prohibited from holding any public office that would give them power over Christians and Jews were required to wear distinctive clothing to distinguish them from Christians.\n\n\"The Doctrine of Fascism\" (\"La dottrina del fascismo\", 1932) by the actualist philosopher Giovanni Gentile is the official formulation of Italian Fascism, published under Benito Mussolini's name in 1933. Gentile was intellectually influenced by Hegel, Plato, Benedetto Croce and Giambattista Vico, thus his actual idealism philosophy was the basis for Fascism. Hence, the \"Doctrine\"s \"Weltanschauung\" proposes the world as action in the realm of humanity — beyond the quotidian constrictions of contemporary political trend, by rejecting \"perpetual peace\" as fantastical and accepting Man as a species continually at war; those who meet the challenge, achieve nobility. To wit, actual idealism generally accepted that conquerors were the men of historical consequence, e.g. the Roman Julius Caesar, the Greek Alexander the Great, the Frank Charlemagne and the French Napoleon. The philosopher–intellectual Gentile was especially inspired by the Roman Empire (27 BC – AD 476, 1453), from whence derives Fascism:\n\nIn 1925, Mussolini assumed the title \"Duce\" (Leader), derived from the Latin \"dux\" (\"leader\"), a Roman Republic military-command title. Moreover, although Fascist Italy (1922–1943) is historically considered an authoritarian–totalitarian dictatorship, it retained the original \"liberal democratic\" government façade: the Grand Council of Fascism remained active as administrators; and King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy could—at the risk of his crown—dismiss Mussolini as Italian Prime Minister, as in the event he did.\n\nGentile defined Fascism as an anti-intellectual doctrine, epistemologically based on faith rather than reason. Fascist mysticism emphasized the importance of political myths, which were true not as empirical facts, but as \"metareality\". Fascist art, architecture and symbols constituted a process which converted Fascism into a sort of a civil religion or political religion. \"La dottrina del fascismo\" states that Fascism is a \"religious conception of life\" and forms a \"spiritual community\" in contrast to bourgeois materialism. The slogan \"Credere Obbedire Combattere\" (\"Believe, Obey, Fight\") reflects the importance of political faith in Fascism.\n\nAccording to historian Zeev Sternhell, \"most syndicalist leaders were among the founders of the Fascist movement\", who in later years gained key posts in Mussolini's regime. Mussolini expressed great admiration for the ideas of Georges Sorel, who he claimed was instrumental in birthing the core principles of Italian fascism. J.L. Talmon argued that Fascism billed itself \"not only as an alternative, but also as the heir to socialism\".\n\n\"La dottrina del fascismo\" proposed an Italy of greater living standards under a one-party Fascist system than under the multi-party liberal democratic government of 1920. As the leader of the National Fascist Party (PNF, \"Partito Nazionale Fascista\"), Mussolini said that democracy is \"beautiful in theory; in practice, it is a fallacy\" and spoke of celebrating the burial of the \"putrid corpse of liberty\". In 1923, to give Deputy Mussolini control of the pluralist parliamentary government of the Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946), an economist, the Baron Giacomo Acerbo, proposed – and the Italian Parliament approved – the Acerbo Law, changing the electoral system from proportional representation to majority representation. The party who received the most votes (provided they possessed at least 25 per cent of cast votes) won two-thirds of the parliament; the remaining third was proportionately shared among the other parties – thus the Fascist manipulation of liberal democratic law that rendered Italy a one-party state.\n\nIn 1924, the PNF won the election with 65 per cent of the votes, yet the United Socialist Party refused to accept such a defeat – especially Deputy Giacomo Matteotti, who on 30 May 1924 in Parliament formally accused the PNF of electoral fraud and reiterated his denunciations of PNF Blackshirt political violence and was publishing \"The Fascisti Exposed: A Year of Fascist Domination\", a book substantiating his accusations. Consequently, on 24 June 1924, the \"Ceka\" (ostensibly a party secret police, modelled on the Soviet \"Cheka\") assassinated Matteotti and of the five men arrested, Amerigo Dumini, also known as \"Il Sicario del Duce\" (\"The Leader's Assassin\"), was sentenced to five years' imprisonment, but served only eleven months and was freed under amnesty from King Victor Emmanuel III. Moreover, when the King supported Prime Minister Mussolini the socialists quit Parliament in protest, leaving the Fascists to govern unopposed. In that time, assassination was not yet the \"modus operandi\" norm and the Italian Fascist \"Duce\" usually disposed of opponents in the Imperial Roman way: political arrest punished with island banishment.\n\nAfter the First World War (1914–1918), despite the Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946) being a full-partner Allied Power against the Central Powers, Italian nationalism claimed Italy was cheated in the Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye (1919), thus the Allies had impeded Italy's progress to becoming a \"Great Power\". Thenceforth, the PNF successfully exploited that \"slight\" to Italian nationalism in presenting Fascism as best-suited for governing the country by successfully claiming that democracy, socialism and liberalism were failed systems. The PNF assumed Italian government in 1922, consequent to the Fascist Leader Mussolini's oratory and Blackshirt paramilitary political violence.\n\nIn 1919 at the Paris Peace Conference, the Allies compelled the Kingdom of Italy to yield to Yugoslavia the Croatian seaport of Fiume (Rijeka), a mostly Italian city of little nationalist significance, until early 1919. Moreover, elsewhere Italy was then excluded from the wartime secret Treaty of London (1915) it had concorded with the Triple Entente; wherein Italy was to leave the Triple Alliance and join the enemy by declaring war against the German Empire and Austria-Hungary in exchange for territories at war's end, upon which the Kingdom of Italy held claims (see \"Italia irredenta\").\n\nIn September 1919, the nationalist response of outraged war hero Gabriele D'Annunzio was declaring the establishment of the Italian Regency of Carnaro. To his independent Italian state, he installed himself as the Regent \"Duce\" and promulgated the \"Carta del Carnaro\" (\"Charter of Carnaro\", 8 September 1920), a politically syncretic constitutional amalgamation of right-wing and left-wing anarchist, proto-fascist and democratic republican politics, which much influenced the politico-philosophic development of early Italian Fascism. Consequent to the Treaty of Rapallo (1920), the metropolitan Italian military deposed the Regency of \"Duce\" D'Annunzio on Christmas 1920. In the development of the fascist model of government, D'Annunzio was a nationalist and not a fascist, whose legacy of political–praxis (\"Politics as Theatre\") was stylistic (ceremony, uniform, harangue and chanting) and not substantive, which Italian Fascism artfully developed as a government model.\n\nAt the same time, Mussolini and many of his revolutionary syndicalist adherents gravitated towards a form of \"Revolutionary Nationalism\" in an effort to \"identify the 'communality' of man not with class, but with the nation\". According to A. James Gregor, Mussolini came to believe that \"Fascism was the only form of 'socialism' appropriate to the proletarian nations of the twentieth century\" while he was in the process of shifting his views from socialism to nationalism. Enrico Corradini, one of the early influences on Mussolini's thought and later a member of his administration, championed the concept of proletarian nationalism, writing about Italy in 1910: \"We are the proletarian people in respect to the rest of the world. Nationalism is our socialism\". Mussolini would come to use similar wording, for instance referring to Fascist Italy during World War II as the \"proletarian nations that rise up against the plutocrats\".\n\nGiven Italian Fascism's pragmatic political amalgamations of left-wing and right-wing socio-economic policies, discontented workers and peasants proved an abundant source of popular political power, especially because of peasant opposition to socialist agricultural collectivism. Thus armed, the former socialist Benito Mussolini oratorically inspired and mobilized country and working-class people: \"We declare war on socialism, not because it is socialist, but because it has opposed nationalism\". Moreover, for campaign financing in the 1920–1921 period the National Fascist Party also courted the industrialists and (historically feudal) landowners by appealing to their fears of left-wing socialist and Bolshevik labor politics and urban and rural strikes. The Fascists promised a good business climate of cost-effective labor, wage and political stability; and the Fascist Party was \"en route\" to power.\n\nHistorian Charles F. Delzell reports: \"At first, the Fascist Revolutionary Party (PFR) was concentrated in Milan and a few other cities. They gained ground quite slowly, between 1919 and 1920; not until after the scare, brought about by the workers \"occupation of the factories\" in the late summer of 1920 did fascism become really widespread. The industrialists began to throw their financial support behind Mussolini after he renamed his party and retracted his former support for Lenin and the Russian Revolution. Moreover, toward the end of 1920, fascism began to spread into the countryside, bidding for the support of large landowners, particularly in the area between Bologna and Ferrara, a traditional stronghold of the Left, and scene of frequent violence. Socialist and Catholic organizers of farm hands in that region, Venezia Giulia, Tuscany, and even distant Apulia, were soon attacked by Blackshirt squads of Fascists, armed with castor oil, blackjacks, and more lethal weapons. The era of \"Squadrismo\", and nightly expeditions to burn Socialist and Catholic labor headquarters had begun. During this time period, Mussolini's fascist squads also engaged in violent attacks against the Church where \"several priests were assassinated and churches burned by the Fascists\".\n\nItaly's use of daredevil elite shock troops, known as the \"Arditi\", beginning in 1917, was an important influence on Fascism. The \"Arditi\" were soldiers who were specifically trained for a life of violence and wore unique blackshirt uniforms and fezzes. The \"Arditi\" formed a national organization in November 1918, the \"Associazione fra gli Arditi d'Italia\", which by mid-1919 had about twenty thousand young men within it. Mussolini appealed to the \"Arditi\" and the Fascists' \"Squadristi\", developed after the war, were based upon the \"Arditi\".\n\nThe First World War (1914–1918) inflated Italy's economy with great debts, unemployment (aggravated by thousands of demobilised soldiers), social discontent featuring strikes, organised crime and anarchist, socialist and communist insurrections. When the elected Italian Liberal Party Government could not control Italy, the Fascist Revolutionary Party (\"Partito Fascista Rivoluzionario\", PFR) leader Mussolini took matters in hand, combating those issues with the Blackshirts, paramilitary squads of First World War veterans and ex socialists when Prime Ministers such as Giovanni Giolitti allowed the Fascists taking the law in hand. The violence between socialists and the mostly self-organized squadristi militias, especially in the countryside, had increased so dramatically that Mussolini was pressured to call a truce to bring about “reconciliation with the Socialists”. Signed in early August 1921, Mussolini and the Italian Socialist Party (PNF) agreed to the Pact of Pacification, which was immediately condemned by most ras leaders in the \"squadrismo\". The peace pact was officially denounced during the Third Fascist Congress on 7–10 November 1921.\n\nThe Liberal Government preferred Fascist class collaboration to the Communist Party of Italy's class conflict, should they assume government, as had Vladimir Lenin's Bolsheviks in the recent Russian Revolution of 1917, although Mussolini had originally praised Lenin's October Revolution and publicly referred to himself in 1919 as \"Lenin of Italy.\"\n\n\"The Manifesto of the Fascist Struggle\" (June 1919) of the PFR presented the politico-philosophic tenets of Fascism. The manifesto was authored by national syndicalist Alceste De Ambris and Futurist movement leader Filippo Tommaso Marinetti. The manifesto was divided into four sections, describing the movement's objectives in political, social, military and financial fields.\n\nBy the early 1920s, popular support for the PFR's fight against Bolshevism numbered some 250,000 people. In 1921, the \"Fascisti\" (Fascists) metamorphosed into the PNF and achieved political legitimacy when Mussolini was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1922. Although the Liberal Party retained power, the governing prime ministries proved ephemeral, especially that of the fifth Prime Minister Luigi Facta, whose government proved vacillating.\n\nTo depose the weak parliamentary democracy, Deputy Mussolini (with military, business and liberal right-wing support) launched the PNF March on Rome (27–29 October 1922) coup d'état to oust Prime Minister Luigi Facta and assume the government of Italy to restore nationalist pride, restart the economy, increase productivity with labor controls, remove economic business controls and impose law and order. On 28 October, whilst the \"March\" occurred, King Victor Emmanuel III withdrew his support of Prime Minister Facta and appointed PNF Leader Benito Mussolini as the sixth Prime Minister of Italy.\n\nThe March on Rome became a victory parade: the Fascists believed their success was revolutionary and traditionalist.\n\nUntil 1925, when the liberal economist Alberto de Stefani, although a former member of the \"squadristi\", was removed from his post as Minister of Economics (1922–1925), Italy's coalition government was able to restart the economy and balanced the national budget. Stefani developed economic policies that were aligned with classical liberalism principles, as inheritance, luxury and foreign capital taxes were abolished; life insurance (1923) and the state communications monopolies were privatised, etc. During Italy's coalition government era, pro-business policies apparently did not contradict the State's financing of banks and industry. Political scientist Franklin Hugh Adler referred to this coalition period between Mussolini's appointment as prime minister on 31 October 1922 and his 1925 dictatorship as \"Liberal-Fascism, a hybrid, unstable, and transitory regime type under which the formal juridical-institutional framework of the liberal regime was conserved\", which still allowed pluralism, competitive elections, freedom of the press and the right of trade unions to strike. Liberal Party leaders and industrialists thought that they could neutralize Mussolini by making him the head of a coalition government, where as Luigi Albertini remarked \"he will be much more subject to influence\".\n\nOne of Prime Minister Mussolini's first acts was the 400-million-lira financing of Gio. Ansaldo & C., one of the country's most important engineering companies. Subsequent to the 1926 deflation crisis, banks such as the \"Banco di Roma\" (Bank of Rome), the \"Banco di Napoli\" (Bank of Naples) and the \"Banco di Sicilia\" (Bank of Sicily) also were state-financed. In 1924, a private business enterprise established \"Unione Radiofonica Italiana\" (URI) as part of the Marconi company, to which the Italian Fascist Government granted official radio-broadcast monopoly. After the defeat of Fascism in 1944, URI became \"Radio Audizioni Italiane\" (RAI) and was renamed \"RAI—Radiotelevisione Italiana\" with the advent of television in 1954.\n\nIn addition, given the overwhelmingly rural nature of Italian economy in the period, agriculture was vital to Fascist economic policies and propaganda. To strengthen the domestic Italian production of grain, in 1925 the Fascist Government established protectionist policies that ultimately failed (see: the Battle for Grain). Historian Denis Mack Smith reports: \"Success in this battle was... another illusory propaganda victory, won at the expense of the Italian economy in general, and consumers in particular... Those who gained were the owners of the Latifundia, or \"latifondi\", and the propertied classes in general... [Mussolini's] policy conferred a heavy subsidy on the Latifondisti\".\n\nFrom 1926 following the Pact of the Vidoni Palace and the Syndical Laws, business and labour were organized into 12 separate associations, outlawing or integrating all others. These organizations negotiated labour contracts on behalf of all its members with the state acting as the arbitrator. The state tended to favour big industry over small industry, commerce, banking, agriculture, labour and transport even though each sector officially had equal representation. Pricing, production and distribution practices were controlled by employer associations rather than individual firms and labour syndicates negotiated collective labour contracts binding all firms in the particular sector. Enforcement of contracts was difficult and the large bureaucracy delayed resolutions of labour disputes.\n\nAfter 1929, the Fascist regime countered the Great Depression with massive public works programs, such as the draining of the Pontine Marshes, hydroelectricity development, railway improvement and rearmament. In 1933, the Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale (IRI – Institute for Industrial Reconstruction) was established to subsidize failing companies and soon controlled important portions of the national economy via government-linked companies, among them Alfa Romeo. The Italian economy's Gross National Product increased 2 per cent; automobile production was increased, especially that of the Fiat motor company; and the aeronautical industry was developing. Especially after the 1936 Society of Nation's sanctions against Italian invasion of Ethiopia, Mussolini strongly advocated agrarianism and autarchy as part of his economic \"battles\" for Land, the Lira and Grain. As Prime Minister, Mussolini physically participated with the workers in doing the work; the \"politics as theatre\" legacy of Gabriele D' Annunzio yielded great propaganda images of \"Il Duce\" as \"Man of the People\".\n\nA year after the creation of the IRI, Mussolini boasted to his Chamber of Deputies: \"Three-fourths of the Italian economy, industrial and agricultural, is in the hands of the state\". As Italy continued to nationalize its economy, the IRI \"became the owner not only of the three most important Italian banks, which were clearly too big to fail, but also of the lion's share of the Italian industries\". During this period, Mussolini identified his economic policies with \"state capitalism\" and \"state socialism\", which later was described as \"economic dirigisme\", an economic system where the state has the power to direct economic production and allocation of resources. By 1939, Fascist Italy attained the highest rate of state–ownership of an economy in the world other than the Soviet Union, where the Italian state \"controlled over four-fifths of Italy's shipping and shipbuilding, three-quarters of its pig iron production and almost half that of steel\".\n\nIn the 19th century, the forces of the Italian \"Risorgimento\" (1815–1871) had conquered Rome and taken control of it away from the Papacy, which saw itself henceforth as a prisoner in the Vatican. In February 1929, as Italian Head of Government, Mussolini concluded the unresolved Church–State conflict of the Roman Question (\"La Questione romana\") with the Lateran Treaty between the Kingdom of Italy and the Holy See, establishing the Vatican City microstate in Rome. Upon ratification of the Lateran Treaty, the papacy recognized the state of Italy in exchange for diplomatic recognition of the Vatican City, territorial compensations, introduction of religious education into all state funded schools in Italy and 50 million pounds sterling that were shifted from Italian bank shares into a Swiss company Profima SA. British wartime records from the \"National Archives in Kew\" also confirmed Profima SA as the Vatican's company which was accused during WW II of engaging in \"activities contrary to Allied interests\". Cambridge historian John F. Pollard wrote in his book that this financial settlement ensured the \"papacy [...] would never be poor again\".\n\nNot long after the Lateran Treaty was signed, Mussolini was almost \"excommunicated\" over his \"intractable\" determination to prevent the Vatican from having control over education. In reply, the Pope protested Mussolini's \"pagan worship of the state\" and the imposition of an \"exclusive oath of obedience\" that obligated everyone to uphold fascism. Once declaring in his youth that \"religion is a species of mental disease\", Mussolini \"wanted the appearance of being greatly favoured by the Pope\" while simultaneously \"subordinate to no one\". Mussolini's widow attested in her 1974 book that her husband was \"basically irreligious until the later years of his life\".\n\nThe Fascist government model was very influential beyond Italy. In the twenty-one-year interbellum period, many political scientists and philosophers sought ideological inspiration from Italy. Mussolini's establishment of law and order to Italy and its society was praised by Winston Churchill, Sigmund Freud, George Bernard Shaw and Thomas Edison, as the Fascist Government combated organised crime and the Mafia with violence and vendetta (honour).\n\nItalian Fascism was copied by Adolf Hitler's Nazi Party, the Russian Fascist Organization, the Romanian National Fascist Movement (the National Romanian Fascia, National Italo-Romanian Cultural and Economic Movement) and the Dutch fascists were based upon the \"Verbond van Actualisten\" journal of H. A. Sinclair de Rochemont and Alfred Haighton. The Sammarinese Fascist Party established an early Fascist government in San Marino and their politico-philosophic basis essentially was Italian Fascism. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Milan Stojadinović established his Yugoslav Radical Union. They wore green shirts and Šajkača caps and used the Roman salute. Stojadinović also adopted the title of \"Vodja\". In Switzerland, pro-Nazi Colonel Arthur Fonjallaz of the National Front became an ardent Mussolini admirer after visiting Italy in 1932 and advocated the Italian annexation of Switzerland whilst receiving Fascist foreign aid. The country was host for two Italian politico-cultural activities: the International Centre for Fascist Studies (CINEF — \"Centre International d' Études Fascistes\") and the 1934 congress of the Action Committee for the Universality of Rome (CAUR — \"Comitato d' Azione della Università de Roma\"). In Spain, the writer Ernesto Giménez Caballero in \"Genio de España\" (\"The Genius of Spain\", 1932) called for the Italian annexation of Spain, led by Mussolini presiding an international Latin Roman Catholic empire. He then progressed to close associated with Falangism, leading to discarding the Spanish annexation to Italy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42605092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42605092", "title": "Jewish women in the Holocaust", "text": "Jewish women in the Holocaust\n\nJewish women in the Holocaust refers to women who were Jewish and imprisoned in Europe in Nazi concentration camps or in hiding to prevent capture by the Nazis during the Holocaust between 1933 and 1945. Of the estimated six million Jews who were killed during the Holocaust, 2 million of them were women. Jewish women were sexually harassed, yelled at, beaten, were victims of Nazi human experimentations and were brutally murdered.\n\nSome scholars have argued that women were more inclined toward nurturing each other and that this might have posed an advantage to them. However, others have noted that men also created social support networks in the concentration camps. The more social women were with each other, the higher chance they had at survival. An interview (conducted to hear the reflections of women and the Holocaust) of a woman from the Holocaust named Rose described the bonds the women formed:\n\nBeing Jewish and female during the Holocaust doubled one's vulnerabilities. Women's reproductive abilities came under assault as a result of the genocidal conditions. For example, several women from the Holocaust who wrote memoirs noted that they developed amenorrhea which would ultimately reduce their chances of ever having children. One of the major disadvantages, which coincided with Jewish women’s vulnerabilities during the Holocaust, was the possibility of rape. Women were sometimes raped right before being murdered.\nOne SS officer was reported to have, \"had the custom of standing at the doorway… and feeling the private parts of the young women entering the gas bunker. There were also instances of SS men of all ranks pushing their fingers into the sexual organs of pretty young women.\"\n\nChildbirth also came as a disadvantage to women’s lives when they were in the concentration camps. This disadvantage struck them physically and emotionally. Once labor was over and the baby was born, the women vulnerable to being killed along with their baby. One memoir describes some of the sadistic acts, which were performed among those who were pregnant: \"SS men and women amuse themselves by beating pregnant women with clubs and whips, [being] torn by dogs, dragged around by the hair and kicked in the stomach with heavy German boots. Then when [the pregnant Jewish women] collapsed, they were thrown into the crematory-alive.\" \n\nSeveral Jewish women who wrote their own memoirs reflecting on the Holocaust reported there being a double jeopardy in their everyday lives as prisoners. These vulnerabilities included the biological differences compared to men, gender-specific socialization patterns, and the obligation of being a nurturer. With this said, antisemitism was not the only problem. In her reflection and interview, a Jewish Woman who survived the Holocaust described this double jeopardy: \"I had two enemies: Nazis and men.\" Another account mentions that besides the Nazis, men acted like \"animals\" too. She said that one day, the SS officers decided to let the men go to the side where the women were. At this point in time, all they wanted to do was have sex. Overall, the experiences that the women faced during the Holocaust were often seen more brutal to their gender rather than their identity (Jew). \"Their stories demonstrate shared fears about and experiences of sexual vulnerability as women, not only about mortal danger as Jews.\"\n\nIt had been noted that major disparities between mother and father figures were caused by the gender roles of Jewish men and women imprisoned during the Holocaust. Women often described their experiences in the Holocaust in maternal ways. The women commonly referred to themselves as surrogate mothers. Women were able to use their nurturing and domestic nature to describe their experiences in the camps. To them, being a woman in the Holocaust meant that they were every type of woman. They considered themselves as a sister, a mother, a daughter, etc. Motherhood represented their gender as a woman, therefore, they were constantly worried and looking out for their children. One female survivor said, \"We were so afraid for our children. We wouldn’t let our children out of our sight when they were going down to play or something.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "12086904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12086904", "title": "Joel Makower", "text": "Joel Makower\n\nJoel Makower (born 19 February 1952 in Oakland, California) is an American entrepreneur, writer and strategist on sustainable business, clean technology, and green marketing. His work has focused on three principal topics: how companies of all sizes and sectors are integrating environmental thinking into their operations in a way that produces business value; the creation of new companies and markets for clean energy, clean water, and advanced materials; and the strategies and tactics that companies use in order to communicate and market their environmental efforts and leadership, especially to consumers.\n\nMakower has written more than a dozen books, including \"Strategies for the Green Economy\", \"The Green Consumer\", \"The E-Factor: The Bottom Line Approach to Environmentally Responsible Business\" and \"Beyond the Bottom Line: Putting Social Responsibility to Work for Your Business and the World\". In 2010, Makower was awarded the Hutchens Medal by the American Society for Quality. In 2014, he was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the International Society of Sustainability Professionals.\n\nMakower also writes and speaks on the environmental impact of consumerism. Makower writes a blog on these topics, “Two Steps Forward” and contributes to Worldchanging and other blogs on progressive business topics.\n\n"}
{"id": "1039998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1039998", "title": "Krestintern", "text": "Krestintern\n\nThe Peasant International (), known most commonly by its Russian abbreviation Krestintern (Крестинтерн), was an international peasants' organization formed by the Communist International in October 1923. The organization attempted to achieve united front relations with radical peasant parties in Eastern Europe and Asia, without lasting success. After failing to make headway with important initiatives in Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, and China in the 1920s, the organization was placed on hiatus at the end of the decade. The so-called Red Peasant International was formally dissolved in 1939.\n\nThe idea for a Red Peasant International is commonly credited to Polish Communist Tomasz Dąbal, a former member of the Polish Peasant Party and representative elected to the Polish parliament. On June 19, 1923, Dąbal published an article in the Soviet Communist Party's daily newspaper, \"Pravda,\" noting a surge in popularity of peasants' political parties, particularly in Eastern Europe, and arguing that these organizations might provide fertile soil for the sowing of Communist ideas among the peasantry. Dąbal suggested that the Communist International should form such an organization to facilitate the establishment of united front political activities between communist and peasants' parties in Europe.\n\nThe Comintern had already established similar organizations for the radical youth movement and the trade union movement — the Young Communist International (KIM) and the Red International of Labor Unions (Profintern), respectively — and the idea that a radical international for peasants should be established under Comintern auspices. With the pro-peasant New Economic Policy in full swing in Soviet Russia, the idea for international organization of peasants quickly gained institutional traction.\n\nThe Red Peasant International was established at a founding congress held in Moscow from October 10-16, 1923. The gathering was attended by 158 delegates, hailing from 40 countries, with a majority of participants representing countries in Eastern Europe and Asia. This gathering established a governing body comparable to the Executive Committee of the Communist International known as the International Peasant Council. Two major plenary sessions of the International Peasant Council were held — the first in October 1923 and the second in November 1927.\n\nThe formal head of the new organization at the time of its formation was A. P. Smirnov, although Dąbal emerged as the organization's leading public spokesman. Smirnov remained in place as the organization's chief until 1928.\n\nIn 1928 Smirnov was replaced as the top official of the Peasant International by Bulgarian Communist Vasil Kolarov, long a top figure of the Comintern. Kolarov served as chairman of a new governing body for the organization known as the Executive Committee of the Krestintern.\n\nThe Krestintern initially sought to build common cause with the Bulgarian Peasants Union, an organization established in exile in Yugoslavia by two former ministers of the government of Aleksandar Stamboliyski following his government's overthrow by a military coup in June 1923. One of these ministers, K. Todorov, travelled to Moscow early in January 1924 where he conducted negotiations with Georgi Dimitrov and Vasil Kolarov regarding joint action between their organization and the Communist Party of Bulgaria for the overthrow of the newly imposed Aleksandar Tsankov regime. The Bulgarian Communists sought without success for Todorov to align his organization with the newly established Krestintern; for his part Todorov sought money and arms for use against the Tsankov government. Some Comintern money changed hands, but no alignment of the Peasants Union with the Peasant International or change of regime in Bulgaria was forthcoming.\n\nThe Krestintern was largely unsuccessful in its task of gathering and mobilizing non-Communist peasants' political parties to advance Communist ends and was only able to attract a small number of factional grouplets, these frequently being artificial creations of the various national communist parties themselves. The sole exception to this rule was the nominal affiliation was the brief and nominal adherence of the Croatian People's Peasant Party \"(Hrvatska Pučka Seljačka Stranka)\" headed by Stjepan Radić in 1924 during a visit to Moscow. This affiliation is judged by historian E.H. Carr to have had less to do with Communism than with the national aspirations of non-Serbian ethnicities inside Yugoslavia.\n\nThe close relations between Radić's organization and the Soviets led to a banning of the Croatian Republican Peasant Party and its official publication, the magazine \"Radnik\" (The Worker), were officially banned on July 12, 1924. The journal continued to be issued illegally for a short time before being terminated at the end of September. \n\nRadić was imprisoned within months of his return to Yugoslavia and the Central Committee of the now-banned Peasant Party was quick to renounce his seemingly rash decision to affiliate with Moscow. Rather than bolstering the political position of his organization, Radić's dalliance with the Red Peasant International seemed to have gone far to bringing about its demise. Four months after his release from prison in July 1925, Radić and his party endorsed the monarchy and the Yugoslav constitution and joined the government. The Communist Party of Yugoslavia was left to curse Radić for having made a \"shameful capitulation.\" The Krestintern's \"united front\" strategy fell to failure.\n\nThe Krestintern published an official organ called \"The Peasant International\" to propagate its political views. The magazine was launched in April 1924 and included articles by Japanese Communist Sen Katayama and Nguyễn Ái Quốc (Ho Chi Minh) of Vietnam, emphasizing the new International's goal of building the radical agrarian movement of Asia in addition to its plan to build bridges to Eastern European peasant parties.\n\nIn 1926 the Krestintern attempted to help broker cooperative relations between the Communist Party of China (CCP) and the Kuomintang headed by Chiang Kai-shek. The presidium of the International Peasant Council, the top leadership of the Peasant International, issued an open letter to the Kuomintang and its peasant section at the end of April of that year, expressing supreme confidence in that organization as \"the center which rallies, unites, and organizes all the revolutionary forces against the pressure of the reactionaries and imperialists.\" Chiang parlayed this relationship into Soviet aid and a list of Communist Party members — assets which were later used in a formidable and partially successful effort to annihilate the CCP in the Shanghai massacre of 1927. The Krestintern's activities in China once again proved ineffective for advancing Comintern policy interests.\nAlso in 1926 the Krestintern established a research facility in Moscow for the study of agrarian problems and the publication of books on these topics, known as the International Agrarian Institute. This subdivision of the Peasant International actually continued to exist for several years past the demise of its parent organization, publishing books through 1942, when the German invasion in World War II forced its termination.\n\nThe period of pro-peasant moderation exemplified by the New Economic Policy came to an abrupt end in 1928, marked by a return to forced requisitioning in an attempt to alleviate the Grain Crisis of 1928. Serious efforts to advance a united front with the peasantry through the Red Peasant International seem to have been abandoned at this time, although the organization remained nominally functional for nearly a decade further.\n\nIn 1930 a new Communist-backed agrarian organization called the European Peasant Committee was unveiled in Berlin. As was the case with the Peasant International, this group proved a failure in its design to attract peasants and peasant organizations to the communist banner. The grim brutality of forced collectivization, followed by agrarian collapse and a massive famine in 1932-33 essentially terminated any chance for a reestablishment of the so-called smychka between urban-oriented Communist movement and the peasantry in ensuing years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35941188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35941188", "title": "List of honours of the British royal family by country", "text": "List of honours of the British royal family by country\n\nThis article serves as an index - as complete as possible - of all the honorific orders or similar decorations received by the British Royal Family, classified by continent, awarding country and recipient.\nCanadian honours are bestowed on members of the Canadian royal family, either ex officio to sovereign of Canadian honours by virtue of being monarch of Canada or being a relative and subject of the monarch of Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "369006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=369006", "title": "Llanito", "text": "Llanito\n\nLlanito or Yanito (pronounced ) is a form of Spanish heavily laced with words from English and other languages, such as Ligurian, spoken in the British overseas territory of Gibraltar. It is commonly marked by a great deal of code switching between Andalusian Spanish and British English and by the use of anglicisms and loanwords from other Mediterranean languages and dialects.\n\n\"Llanito\" is a Spanish word meaning \"little plain\". Gibraltarians also call themselves \"Llanitos\".\n\nAndalusian Spanish from the surrounding \"Campo de Gibraltar\" is the main constituent of \"Llanito\", but it is also heavily influenced by British English. However, it borrows words and expressions of many other languages, with over 500 words of Genoese (Ligurian) medieval dialect (with additionally some of Hebrew origin). Its other main language constituents are Maltese and Portuguese. It often also involves code-switching from Spanish to English. Some \"Llanito\" words are also widely used in the neighbouring Spanish town of La Línea de la Concepción (due to the influx of people from La Línea working in Gibraltar over many years).\n\nTo some outsiders who only speak either English or Spanish, \"Llanito\" may sound incomprehensible, as speakers appear to switch languages in mid-sentence, but to people who are bilingual in both languages, it can sound interesting and unique. One feature of the language is the pronunciation of English words with an Andalusian flavour. For example, bacon is pronounced \"beki\"; cake, \"keki\"; battery, \"batteria\"; a policeman is known as \"la parma\", and porridge is called \"kuecaro\" (a hispanicization of the brand Quaker Oats). Most Gibraltarians, especially those with higher education, also speak standard Spanish with either Andalusian or normative pronunciations and standard English of the British English variety.\n\nAccording to the Italian scholar Giulio Vignoli, Llanito originally, in the first decades of the 19th century, was full of Genoese words, later substituted mainly by Spanish words and by some English words.\n\nLlanito has significant Jewish influence, because of a long standing Jewish population in Gibraltar. They introduced words and expressions from Haketia, a largely extinct Judeo-Spanish language spoken by the Sephardic communities of Northern Morocco, such as Tetuan and Tangiers and the Spanish exclaves of Ceuta and Melilla in North Africa.\n\nEven though Llanito is seldom written, a Llanito dictionary, \"Diccionario Yanito\", was published in 1978 by Manuel Cavilla, and in 2001 Tito Vallejo published \"The Yanito Dictionary. Including Place Names and Yanito Anecdotes\".\n\nAlthough Llanito is largely based on the colloquial Spanish spoken in the Campo de Gibraltar, there are numerous elements beyond code-switching to English which make it unique. These are as follows.\n\n\n\n\n\nMany Llanito terms have been introduced into the Andalusian Spanish dialect of the bordering city La Línea de la Concepción, where the resulting dialect is known as Linense. However, according to Gibraltarian linguist Tito Vallejo, a few words common throughout Spain may be of Llanito origin, notably \"Chachi\" meaning \"Cool\" or \"Brilliant\" (from Winston Churchill) and \"Napia\" meaning \"Big Nose\" from Lord Napier. Churchill was associated with foreign imports from the United Kingdom which were highly sought in Gibraltar and, according to Vallejo, Lord Napier had a particularly big nose.\n\nHowever, linguists also propose \"chachi\" to be a contraction of the Caló term \"chachipén\" meaning \"truth\", since this language is the source of a significant proportion of Spanish slang.\n\nThe Gibraltar Broadcasting Corporation has also aired some programmes in Llanito including \"Talk About Town\" – a discussion series in which three presenters discuss local affairs, from the need to replace a street sign to important political affairs.\n\n\"Pepe's Pot\" was a cookery programme/program which also used Llanito.\nA documentary film, \"People of the Rock: The Llanitos of Gibraltar\" (2011) discusses Llanito speech characteristics, history and culture. Notable interviews include Pepe Palmero (of GBC's \"Pepe's Pot\"), Kaiane Aldorino (Miss World 2009) and Tito Vallejo (author of \"The Llanito Dictionary\").\n\nThe official demonym of Gibraltar is \"Gibraltarians\". However, the people of Gibraltar may also be referred to as \"Llanitos\" (female: \"Llanitas\"). This term is commonly used in the neighbouring towns of La Línea, San Roque, Algeciras and the rest of the Campo de Gibraltar, as well as in Gibraltar itself. When speaking in English, the people of Gibraltar tend to use the word \"Gibraltarians\" to refer to themselves but when speaking in Spanish they prefer to use the word \"Llanitos\" rather than the Spanish name for their official demonym, \"Gibraltareños\".\n\nThe truncated term \"Llanis\" is also used by the people of Gibraltar, where it can be heard all around the territory and chanted in songs during the annual Gibraltar National Day.\n\nThe etymology of the term \"Llanito\" is uncertain. In Spanish, \"Llanito\" means \"little flatland\" and has been interpreted as \"people of the flatlands\". It is thought that the inhabitants of La Línea with important social and economic ties with Gibraltar, were actually the first to be referred to as \"Llanitos\" since La Línea lies in the plain and marsh land surrounding The Rock. \n\nAnother theory for the origin of the word is that it is a diminutive of the name \"Gianni\": \"gianito\", pronounced in Genoese slang with the \"g\" as \"j\". During the late 18th century 34% of the male civilian population of Gibraltar came from Genoa and \"Gianni\" was a common Italian forename. To this day, nearly 20% of Gibraltarian surnames are Italian in origin. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11134252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11134252", "title": "Luc Gnacadja", "text": "Luc Gnacadja\n\nLuc-Marie Constant Gnacadja or simply Luc Gnacadja is a Beninese politician and architect. He was Executive Secretary of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification from 2007 to 2013.\n\nGnacadja served in the government of Benin as Minister of the Environment, Housing, and Urban Planning from June 1999 to February 2005 under long-time President Mathieu Kérékou. Due to major political changes taking place since 2005, particularly with President Kérékou barred from running again by a two-term limit and an age limit of 70 years for candidates, Gnacadja ran for president as the unique candidate of the Envol movement in the March 2006 presidential election, receiving 11th place and 0.68% of the vote in the first round.\n\nIn terms of ministerial authority, Luc Gnacadja represented Benin as the head of delegation to the UNCCD and at the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) while serving as Minister.\n\nIn September 2007, Luc Gnacadja was appointed as Executive Secretary of the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD) by United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon, after he was endorsed by the Bureau of the Conference of the Parties of the UNCCD. In applying for the position, Gnacadja was said to have been backed by Beninese President Yayi Boni. Gnacadja's second term concluded at the end of September 2013.\n\nSince he first took office in 2007, he managed to effectively address the UNCCD's lack of scientific basis. His vision of the UNCCD process was based on moving the Convention towards effective implementation through evidence-based policymaking, target setting and monitoring of implementation by means of agreeing a strong and globally trusted set of impacts and progress indicators by the scientific community; so as to build a strong and authoritative science and policy interface for the Convention. Accordingly, the Conference of the Parties (COP) at its eighth session in 2007 decided that future sessions of the Committee on Science and Technology (CST) shall be organized in a predominantly scientific and technical conference-style format and focus on a specific thematic topic relevant to the implementation of The ten-year Strategy to enhance the implementation of the Convention (2008-2018), to be determined in advance by the COP The UNCCD 3rd Scientific Conference on “Combating Desertification, Land Degrdation and Drought (DLDD) for poverty reduction and sustainable development: the contribution of science, technology, traditional knowledge and practices” (decision 18/COP.10) is expected to be held in March 2015 in Mexico.\n\nIn 1992, the first Earth summit held in Rio agreed to combat land degradation. Under Gnacadja's direction, Rio+20 held in 2012 witnessed the birth of a new paradigm: \"land degradation neutrality\" meant to reduce land degradation to the minimum level close to the unavoidable degradation by means of prevention while at the same time restoring degraded areas whenever possible by means of sustainable land management (SLM). In this respect, one of his main interests include a priority focus on Land and Soil in the Global Sustainability Agenda.\n\nGnacadja was a guiding voice for sustainable land development in the negotiations leading up to Rio+20, the June 2012 UN Conference on Sustainable Development. His personal efforts to promote adoption of an international commitment to a “land degradation–neutral world” was deemed a critical step forward according to The expert committee overseeing the Cook Prize for Desert Architecture led by Prof. David Perlmutter, chair of the Bona Terra Department of Man in the Desert at the BIDR.\n\nLuc Gnacadja earned an architecture degree at the African Crafts School of Architecture and Urbanism in Lomé, Togo, and later studied at Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government and the World Bank Institute.\n\nIn March 2003, Gnacadja was awarded the Green Award 2002 by the World Bank in Washington. for promoting environment-friendly public expenditure reform in Benin.\n\nOn November 17, 2014, Gnacadja was awarded the Jeffery Cook Prize in Desert Architecture at the International Drylands, Deserts and Desertification Conference organized by Ben-Gurion University of the Negev’s Blaustein Institutes for Desert Research (BIDR).\n\nGnacadja is an honorary councillor of The World Future Council (WFC) launched in 2007 in Hamburg, Germany by Jakob von Uexkull. The WFC is an international Foundation consisting of some eminent global personalities who promote change by advocating at the highest levels for a sustainable, just and peaceful future and providing decision-makers with practical solutions to the global challenges facing future generations.\n"}
{"id": "998865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=998865", "title": "Madhya Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Adivasi Kranti Dal", "text": "Madhya Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Adivasi Kranti Dal\n\nMadhya Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Adivasi Kranti Dal (Madhya Pradesh Peasants Workers Adivasi Revolution Party) is a political party in Madhya Pradesh, India. MPKMAKD was formed as a breakaway from Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI(M)) in 2001. In the 2003 Madhya Pradesh legislative assembly elections, MPMKAKD was part of a third front, called 'Madhya Pradesh Jan Mukti Morcha' (Madhya Pradesh People's Liberation Front). The leader of MPMKAKD is Dr. Sunilal.\n\nMPKMAKD participates in the Confederation of Indian Communists and Democratic Socialists.\n"}
{"id": "35128499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35128499", "title": "Managed decline", "text": "Managed decline\n\nManaged decline is a phrase that refers to the management of the decline (or \"sunset\") phase at the end of a lifecycle, with the goal of minimizing costs or other forms of losses and harm. The concept originated in business where it referred to the management of companies and industries, but has since spread beyond to be used in other contexts.\n\nExamples of managed decline include the handling of the textiles, shipbuilding, coal and steel industries in North America and Europe in the 1980s, of the postal delivery services in Europe and the United States in the first decades of the 21st century, \nof the established churches in western Europe since the 1970s, management of Blackpool FC by Chairman Karl Oyston following the club's single season in The Premier League, and that of an individual's quality of life in their final years as they face old age or terminal illness.\n\nDecline can be managed through multiple means, including public or industrial policy efforts such as government provision of retraining.\n"}
{"id": "2822609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2822609", "title": "Mary Pawlenty", "text": "Mary Pawlenty\n\nMary Elizabeth Anderson Pawlenty (born January 13, 1961) is a former American state court judge who served on Minnesota's First Judicial District from 1994 to 2007. The wife of Governor Tim Pawlenty, she was First Lady of Minnesota from 2003 to 2011. She previously worked as a private-practice attorney and in 2009 became director at a medical nonprofit. She has been a mediator with Gilbert Mediation since 2007.\n\nMary Anderson was raised in Edina, Minnesota. In 1979, she graduated from Edina-East High School. In 1983, she graduated from Bethel University, earning a bachelor's degree in political science, \"summa cum laude\". She received her Juris Doctor, \"cum laude\", from the University of Minnesota Law School—where she met Tim Pawlenty—in 1986.\n\nFollowing graduation, Anderson practiced law in Houston, Texas for one year. She then returned to Minnesota to marry Tim Pawlenty. They settled in Eagan, Minnesota.\n\nIn 1994, Mary was appointed as a Judge of the District Court of Minnesota for Dakota County in Hastings, Minnesota by Governor Arne Carlson. She and her husband began raising their two daughters, Anna (born 1993) and Mara.\n\nThe family remained at their Eagan home instead of taking the Governor's Residence after Tim Pawlenty was elected Governor of Minnesota in 2002 due to Mary's requirement to stay in her judicial district.\n\nAs First Lady of Minnesota, Mary Pawlenty established a web-based program that facilitated the connection between community-based organizations willing to volunteer their time and services and the families of deployed servicemen and women - an initiative that is continued by the Minnesota National Guard as a nationally recognized model for web-based and community support for military families, known as Beyond the Yellow Ribbon.\n\nIn January 2007, after her husband was sworn into his second term as Governor, Judge Pawlenty announced that she was leaving the bench on February 12, 2007. She began work at the National Arbitration Forum shortly thereafter as its general counsel in charge of the National Arbitration Forum's legal affairs. However, she quit her position with National Arbitration Forum and in September, 2007 Pawlenty became a mediator with the Gilbert Mediation Center, where she assists parties in settling disputes, both before and during civil litigation. From January 2009 to January 2010, she was the director of medical diplomacy at Children's HeartLink, an international medical nonprofit.\n\n"}
{"id": "40842897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40842897", "title": "Ministry of Higher Education (Egypt)", "text": "Ministry of Higher Education (Egypt)\n\nThe Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research is one of the governmental bodies of Egypt and part of the cabinet.\n\nThe ministry was established on 9 November 1961, when university education in Egypt became free.\n\nBetween March 2011 and June 2013 the ministry had seven different ministers. Amr Ezzat Salama was one the ministers during this period.\n\nMostafa Mussad served as minister of higher education from August 2012 to July 2013 when Hossam Eisa replaced him in the post. The ministry was headed by El Sayed Abdel Khalek between June 2014 and September 2015. He was replaced by Ashraf El-Shihy in the post. In February 2017, Khaled Abdel Ghaffar was appointed to head the ministry.\n\nThe major function of the ministry, based in Cairo, is to develop, implement and monitor all the higher education-related policies. The ministry is responsible for the educational activities of the universities, both public and private, in the country. The ministry realizes this function through three executive bodies, namely the Supreme Council of Universities, the Supreme Council of Private Universities and the Supreme Council of Technical Institutions.\n\nIn addition, the ministry supervises the Academy of the Arabic Language and the National Committee of UNESCO. The ministry has international bureaus, including the Egyptian Cultural and Educational Bureau in Washington DC.\n\nIn early 2018, the ministry with Minya University, spearheaded a week-long sports event for people with disabilities. It was the first of its kind in Egypt's history, as Egypt works to integrate disabled into society.\n\nIn 2018 it was announced that Egyptian children would begin to learn English starting in Kindergarten.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51999902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51999902", "title": "Munckska kåren", "text": "Munckska kåren\n\nMunckska kåren (literally \"the Munck corps\", formally \"Stockholms luftförsvars frivilliga beredskapsförening\") was a Swedish secret paramilitary group founded by the retired lieutenant general Bror Munck in 1927. While nominally apolitical, it was founded to protect the Swedish state against \"domestic enemies\", implying not fascists or nazis, but solely left-wing radicals. At its height it had about 2,000 members.\n\nDuring the late 1920s leaders of the police were affected by the Red Scare, and thought they were inadequately prepared for a coup d'état similar to the October Revolution. Anti-communist rhetoric was harsh, especially during the so-called \"Cossack Election\" of 1928. The plan was for its 2,000 members to have 50 rounds of ammunition each. Stockholm police chief Gustaf Hårleman managed to attain proper licenses for about 1,300 guns, while about 500 to 600 guns were smuggled in illegally from Germany.\n\nThe corps was unveiled in 1931, leading to a lively debate in Swedish press. Horst von Pflugk-Harttung, who had facilitated the illegal smuggling of arms, was expelled in December 1931. The corps disbanded the following year. In 1934 Swedish law was altered to ban similar groups.\n"}
{"id": "201973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201973", "title": "National Convention", "text": "National Convention\n\nThe National Convention () was the first government of the French Revolution, following the two-year National Constituent Assembly and the one-year Legislative Assembly. Created after the great insurrection of 10 August 1792, it was the first French government organized as a republic, abandoning the monarchy altogether. The Convention sat as a single-chamber assembly from 20 September 1792 to 26 October 1795 (4 Brumaire IV under the Convention's adopted calendar).\n\nThe Convention came about when the Legislative Assembly, which had found it impossible to work with the king, decreed the provisional suspension of King Louis XVI and the convocation of a National Convention to draw up a new constitution with no monarchy. The other major innovation was to decree that deputies to that Convention should be elected by all Frenchmen twenty-five years old or more, domiciled for a year and living by the product of their labor. The National Convention was, therefore, the first French assembly elected by a suffrage without distinctions of class.\n\nAlthough the Convention lasted until 1795, power was effectively stripped from the elected deputies and concentrated in the small Committee of Public Safety from April 1793. The eight months from the fall of 1793 to the spring of 1794, when Maximilien Robespierre and his allies dominated the Committee of Public Safety, represent the most radical and bloodiest phase of the French Revolution, known as the Reign of Terror. After the fall of Robespierre, the Convention lasted for another year until a new constitution was written, ushering in the French Directory.\n\nThe indirect election took place from 2 to 10 September 1792 after the election of the electoral colleges by primary assemblies on 26 August. Owing to the abstention of royalists, the anti-republicans, and the fear of victimization the voter turnout in the departments was low – 11.9% of the electorate came, compared to 10.2% in the 1791 elections – in spite of the fact that the number of those eligible to vote had doubled. Therefore, the quasi-universal male suffrage had very little impact. The electorate returned the same sort of men that the active citizens had chosen in 1791.\n\nIn the whole of France, only eleven primary assemblies wanted to retain the monarchy. Of the electoral assemblies, all tacitly voted for a republic – though only Paris used the word. None of the deputies stood as a royalist for elections. Out of the five million Frenchmen able to vote, only a million showed up at the polls. \n\nOn 20 September the Convention held its first session in the \"Salle des Cent-Suisses\", the next day it moved to the Salle du Manège, with little room for the public and a bad acoustic. From 10 May 1793 it met in the Salle des Machines, an immense hall in which the deputies were loosely scattered. The Salle des Machines had galleries for the public who often influenced the debates with interruptions or applause. \n\nThe members of the Convention came from all classes of society, but the most numerous were lawyers. 75 members had sat in the National Constituent Assembly, 183 in the Legislative Assembly. The full number of deputies was 749, not counting 33 from the French colonies, of whom only some arrived in Paris in time. Thomas Paine and Anacharsis Cloots were appointed in the Convention by Girondins. Besides these, however, the newly formed annexed to France from 1782 to 1789 were allowed to send deputations.\n\nAccording to its own ruling, the Convention elected its President every fortnight, and the outgoing President was eligible for re-election after the lapse of a fortnight. Ordinarily, the sessions were held in the morning, but evening sessions also occurred frequently, often extending late into the night. Sometimes in exceptional circumstances, the Convention declared itself in permanent session and sat for several days without interruption. For both legislative and administrative the Convention used committees, with powers more or less widely extended and regulated by successive laws. The most famous of these committees included the Committee of Public Safety and the Committee of General Security.\n\nThe Convention held legislative and executive powers during the first years of the French First Republic and had three distinct periods: Girondin, Montagnard or Jacobin, and Thermidorian.\n\nThe first session was held on 20 September 1792. The following day, the assembly agreed the proposition \"That royalty be abolished in France\" and was carried with cheers. On the 22nd came the news of the Battle of Valmy. On the same day it was decreed that \"in future the acts of the assembly shall be dated \"First Year of the French Republic\"\". Three days later the corollary that \"the French republic is one and indivisible\" was added to guard against federalism. A republic had been proclaimed, but it remained to enact a republican government. The country was little more republican in feeling or practice than it had been before at any time since Varennes. But now it had to become a republic, because it no longer had a king.\n\nWhen the Convention met the military situation was undergoing an extraordinary transformation that seemed to confirm the Girondin prophecies of easy victory. After Valmy the Prussians withdrew to the frontier, and in November French troops occupied the left bank of the Rhine. The Austrians, who had besieged Lille in October, were defeated by Dumouriez at the Battle of Jemappes on 6 November and evacuated the Austrian Netherlands. Nice was occupied and Savoy proclaimed its union with France. These successes made it safe to quarrel at home.\n\nMost historians divide the National Convention into two main factions: the Girondins and the Montagnards. The Girondins were the more radical democratic faction at the Convention, as opposed to the Montagnards, who were authoritarian populists. They drew their name from the Gironde, a region of France from which many of the deputies of this faction were elected (although many \"Girondins\" were actually Parisian by origin). They were also known as the Brissotins after their most prominent speaker, Jaques Pierre Brissot.\n\nThe Montagnards, who drew their support from the less educated segments of the Parisian population, drew their name from the high bleachers that they sat on while the Convention was in session. The Montagnards dominated the Convention through the threat of physical violence.\n\nThree questions dominated the first months of the Convention: revolutionary violence; the trial of the king; and Parisian dominance of politics.\n\nAntagonism between Paris and the provinces created friction among the people that served as a propaganda tool and combat weapon for the two groups. The departments resisted the idea of centralization. They saw this idea being symbolized by the desire to reduce the capital of the Revolution to its one-eighty-third share of influence. Much of the Gironde wished to remove the Assembly from a city dominated by \"agitators and flatterers of the people\": it did not at the time encourage an aggressive federalism that would have run counter to its political ambitions.\n\nThe Plain was a third faction during the Convention. Though some historians consider these men to be closely associated with the Girondins, the Plain was much more centrist in their ideals. The Plain held the largest group of deputies and derived their name from their place on the floor of the Convention. During the start of the Convention, they sided with the Girondins, however, as it progressed and the Montagnards began to push for the execution of Louis, the Plain began to side with them.\n\nFrom the opening of the Convention the Girondins showed no inclination to bring the king to trial. They were more interested in discrediting Paris and its deputies. Their decision to hound the Jacobins was not merely a choice of priorities; they genuinely wanted to spare the king. But in reality the Convention had to declare him guilty if it wanted to avoid damning 10 August 1792, its own existence, and the proclamation of the Republic. \"If the king is not guilty, then those who have dethroned him are\", as Robespierre remarked on 2 December. Once the Convention recognized Louis's guilt it could hardly refuse to pronounce the death penalty against a person who had summoned the aid of foreign powers and whom the \"sans-culottes\" considered responsible for the ambush at the Tuileries.\n\nThe discovery of the iron chest in the Tuileries 20 November 1792 made the trial inevitable. Documents found in this secret chest proved without any doubt the treachery of Louis XVI.\n\nThe trial began on 10 December. The Montagnards put the debate on the ideological level. Louis XVI was classified as an enemy, alien to the body of the nation and as a \"usurper\". Balloting began on 14 January 1793. Each deputy explained his vote at the rostrum. The vote against the king was unanimous. There was to be no popular referendum as Girondins hoped. The fatal vote started on 16 January and continued until the next day. Of the 721 deputies present, 387 declared themselves for the death penalty, while 334 were opposed. 26 deputies voted for death on condition that he was reprieved. On 18 January the question of reprieve was put to a vote: 380 votes were cast against; 310 for. Each time the Girondins had split.\n\nOn the morning of 21 January the Convention ordered the entire National Guard to line both sides of the route to the scaffold. Louis was beheaded at the Place de la Revolution. Within the nation, \"voters\" and \"appellants\", those that were against the execution of Louis, swore undying hatred of each other. The rest of Europe, fearing the outcome of the French Revolution in their own countries, decreed a war of extermination against regicides.\n\nThe Assembly began harmoniously, but within a few days the Girondins launched a bitter attack on their Montagnard opponents. Conflict continued without interruption until the expulsion of the Girondin leaders from the Convention on 2 June 1793. The Girondins had relied on votes from the majority of the deputies, many of whom were alarmed as well as scandalized by the September massacres, but their insistence on monopolizing all positions of authority during the Convention, and their attacks on the Montagnard leaders, soon irritated them, causing them to regard the party as a faction. One by one, able deputies such as Couthon, Cambon, Carnot, Lindet and Barère began to gravitate towards the Montagnards, while the majority – the Plain, as it was called – held itself aloof from both sides.\n\nGirondins were convinced that their opponents aspired to a bloody dictatorship, while the Montagnards believed that the Girondins were ready for any compromise with conservatives, and even royalists, that would guarantee their remaining in power. The bitter enmity soon reduced the Convention to a state of limbo. Debate after debate degenerated into verbal brawling from which no decision could emerged. The political deadlock, which had repercussions all over France, eventually drove men to accept dangerous allies, royalists in the case of Girondins, Jacobins in that of the Montagnards.\n\nThus the struggle within the Convention continued without results. The decision was to come from outside.\n\nSince the king's trial, the sans-culottes had been constantly assailing the \"appealers\" (\"appelants\"), and quickly came to desire their expulsion from the Convention. If this were achieved, the government could recover the energy to enable it to deal with the aristocratic plot by arresting suspects and establishing a revolutionary tribunal. Military setbacks from the First Coalition, Dumouriez's treason and the war in the Vendée, which began in March 1793, were all used as arguments by Montagnards and \"sans-culottes\" to portray Girondins as soft. They demanded that the Girondins take measures to change thing, but the Girondins were reluctant to adopt the proposed measures. The Girondins were forced to accept the Montagnards creation of the Committee of Public Safety and Revolutionary Tribunal. Social and economic difficulties exacerbated the tensions between the groups. The final showdown was precipitated by Jean-Paul Marat's trial and the arrest of sectional activists.\n\nOn 25 May the Paris Commune demanded that arrested patriots be released. In reply, Isnard, who was presiding over the Convention, launched into a diatribe against Paris which was reminiscent of the Brunswick Manifesto: \"If any attack made on the persons of the representatives of the nation, then I declare to you in the name of the whole country that Paris would be destroyed\". On the next day the Jacobins declared themselves in a state of insurrection. On 28 May the \"Cité\" section called the other sections to a meeting in order to organize the insurrection. On 29 May the delegates representing 33 of the sections formed an insurrectionary committee of nine members.\n\nOn 2 June, 80,000 armed \"sans-culottes\" surrounded the Convention. After an attempt of deputies to leave collided with guns, the deputies resigned themselves to declare the arrest of 29 leading Girondins. In this way the Gironde ceased to be a political force. It had declared war without knowing how to conduct it; it had denounced the King but had shrunk from condemning him; it had contributed to the worsening of the economic crisis but had swept aside all the claims made by the popular movement.\n\nScarcely had the Gironde been eliminated when the Convention, now under Montagnard leadership, found itself caught between two threats. While forces of counter-revolution were gaining new impetus from the federalist revolt, the popular movement, roused to fury by high prices, was increasing the pressure it exercised on the government. Meanwhile, the Government was proving incapable of controlling the situation. In July 1793 the nation appeared to be on the point of falling apart.\n\nDuring the month of June the Montagnards played for time. Yet the Convention did not overlook the peasants. It was to these latter that the revolution of 31 May (like those of 14 July and 10 August) brought a substantial benefit. On 3 June the sale of the property of emigrants, in small parcels and payable in ten years, was decreed; on the 10th, the optional division of common lands by head; and on 17 July, the abolition, without compensation, of all that remained of manorial rights.\n\nThe Montagnards attempted to reassure the middle classes by rejecting any idea of terror, by protecting property rights, and by restricting the popular movement to very narrowly circumscribed limits. It was a delicate balance to achieve, a balance that was destroyed in July by the worsening of the crisis. The Convention rapidly approved the new constitution, hoping to clear itself of the charge of dictatorship and calm the anxieties of the departments\".\n\nThe Declaration of Rights which precedes the text of the Constitution solemnly reaffirmed the nation's indivisibility and the great principles of freedom of the press, equality and resistance to oppression. It went far beyond the Declaration of 1789, adding to it the right to public assistance, work, education and insurrection. No man could impose his will on others. All political and social tyranny was abolished. Although the \"montagnards\" had refused to be led further down the road to democracy, the Constitution became the bible of all democrats.\n\nThe chief aim of the Constitution was to ensure the major role of the deputies in the Convention, which was seen as being the essential basis for political democracy. The Legislative Assembly was to be elected by direct vote cast for a single member; deputies were elected on receiving a simple majority of the votes cast, and the assembly would sit for one year. The executive council of 24 members was chosen by the Legislative Assembly from among the 83 candidates chosen by the departments on the basis of universal male suffrage, and in this way ministers were made responsible to the representatives of the nation. The exercise of national sovereignty was widened through the institution of the referendum – the Constitution was to be ratified by the people, as were laws in certain precisely defined circumstances.\n\nThe Constitution was submitted for popular ratification and adopted by a huge margin of more than 1,801,918 in favour to some 17,610 against. The results of the plebiscite were made public on 10 August 1793, but the application of the Constitution, the text of which was placed in the sacred ark and laid in the debating-chamber of the Convention, was postponed until peace had been made.\n\nIndeed, the Montagnards faced dramatic circumstances – federalist insurrection, war in the Vendée, military failures, and a worsening economic situation. Despite everything, a new civil war could not be avoided. By the middle of June, about sixty departments were in more or less open rebellion. Fortunately the frontier departments had remained faithful to the Convention. The rising was widespread rather than deep. It was essentially the work of the departmental and district administrations. The communes, which were more popular in composition, showed themselves in general lukewarm or hostile; and federalist leaders soon became divided among themselves. Sincere republicans among them could not fail to be uneasy about the foreign invasion and the Vendée. Those who were seeing themselves rejected by the people, sought support from the moderates, the Feuillants and even from the aristocrats.\n\nJuly and August were bad months on the frontiers. Within three weeks Mainz, the symbol of previous successes, capitulated to the Prussians, and the Austrians captured the fortresses of Condé and Valenciennes and invaded northern France. Spanish troops crossed the Pyrenees and began advancing on Perpignan. The Piedmontese took advantage of the diversion of republican forces at Lyons in order to invade France from the East. In Corsica, Paoli's revolt expelled the French from the island with British support. British troops opened the siege of Dunkirk in August and in October the Allies invaded Alsace. The military situation had become desperate.\n\nIn addition there were other incidents which compounded the fury of the revolutionaries and convinced them that their opponents had abandoned all restraint of civilized behavior. On 13 July, Charlotte Corday murdered \"sans-culotte\" idol Jean-Paul Marat. She had been in touch with Girondin rebels in Normandy and they were believed to have used her as their agent.\n\nThe lack of forethought displayed by the Convention during the first few days was redeemed by its vigor and skill in organizing measures of repression. Warrants were issued for the arrest of the rebellious Girondin leaders; the members of the revolting departmental administration were deprived of their office.\n\nThe regions in which the revolt was dangerous were precisely those in which a large number of royalists had remained. There was no room for a third party between the Mountain, which was identified with the Republic, and royalism, which was the ally of the enemy. The royalist insurrection in the Vendée had already led the Convention to take a long step in the direction of the Terror – that is to say, the dictatorship of central power and the suppression of liberties. The Girondin insurrection now prompted it to take a decisive step in the same direction.\n\nThe Constituent Assembly had legislated through its commissions. The Convention governed by means of its committees. Two of them were of essential importance: Public Safety and General Security. The second, which had formidable powers, is less well known than the first, which was the true executive authority and was armed with immense prerogatives. It dated from April, but its composition was thoroughly reshuffled during the summer of 1793.\n\nThe summer of 1793 saw \"sans-culotte\" disturbances reach a peak under a double banner: price-fixing and terror. On top of this came the news of unprecedented treason: Toulon and its squadron had been handed over to the enemy. In the name of the wretched poverty of the people, the leaders of the Enragés, with Jacques Roux at their head, called for a planned economy from a Convention which had no liking for the idea. But the revolutionary logic of the mobilization of resources by national dictatorship was infinitely more powerful than economic doctrine. In August, a series of decrees gave the authorities discretionary powers over the production and circulation of grain, as well as ferocious punishments for fraud. \"Granaries of plenty\" were prepared, to stock corn requisitioned by authorities in each district. On 23 August the decree on the \"levée en masse\" turned able-bodied civilians into soldiers.\n\nOn 5 September, Parisians tried to repeat the revolt of 2 June. Armed \"sections\" again encircled the Convention to demand the setting up of an internal revolutionary army, the arrest of suspects and a purge of the committees. It was probably the key day in the formation of the revolutionary government: the convention yielded, but kept control of events. It put Terror on the agenda on 5 September, on 6th elected Collot d'Herbois and Billaud-Varenne to the Committee of Public Safety, on the 9th created the revolutionary army, on the 11th decreed the Maximum for grain and fodder (general controls for prices, and wages on the 29th), on the 14th reorganized the Revolutionary Tribunal, on the 17th voted in the law on suspects, and on the 20th gave the local revolutionary committees the task of drawing up lists of them.\n\nThe dictatorship of the Convention and the committees, simultaneously supported and controlled by the Parisian sections, representing the sovereign people in permanent session, lasted from June to September. It governed through a network of institutions set up haphazardly since spring in March, the Revolutionary Tribunal and representatives on missions in the departments; was followed the next month by the Convention's representatives to the armies, also armed with unlimited powers; and enforced acceptance of \"assignat\" as the sole legal tender, price controls for grain and the forced loan of a billion livres from the rich.\n\nAt last France saw a government take shape. Danton resigned from it on 10 July. Couthon, Saint-Just, Jeanbon Saint-Andre, and Prieur of the Marne formed a nucleus of resolute Montagnards who rallied Barère and Lindet, then successfully added Robespierre on 27 July, Carnot and Prieur of Cote-d'Ore on 14 August, and Collot d'Herbois and Billaud-Varenne on 6 September. They had a few clear ideas to which they clung: to command, to fight, and to conquer. Their work in common, the danger, the taste of and pride in power created solidarity that made the Committee an autonomous organism.\n\nThe committee was always managed collegially, despite the specific nature of the tasks of each director: the division into \"politicians\" and \"technicians\" was a Thermidorian invention, intended to lay the corpses of the Terror at the door of the Robespierrists alone. Many things, however, set the twelve committee members at loggerheads; Barère was more a man of the Convention than of the committee and was a link with the Plaine. Robert Lindet had qualms about the Terror which, by contrast, was the outstanding theme of Collot d'Herbois and Billaud-Varenne, latecomers to the committee, forced on it by the \"sans-culottes\" in September; unlike Robespierre and his friends, Lazare Carnot had given his support only provisionally and for reasons of state to a policy concession to the people. But the situation which united them in the summer of 1793 was stronger than those differences of opinion. The Committee had to set itself above all, and choose those popular demands which were most suitable for achieving the Assembly's aims: to crush the enemies of the Republic and dash the last hopes of the aristocracy. To govern in the name of the Convention, at the same time controlling it, and to restrain the people without quenching their enthusiasm — this was a gamble.\n\nThe ensemble of institutions, measures and procedures which constituted it was codified in a decree of 14 Frimaire (4 December) which set the seal on what had been the gradual development of centralized dictatorship founded on the Terror. In the center was the Convention, whose secular arm was the Committee of Public Safety, vested with immense powers: it interpreted the Convention's decrees and settled their methods of application; under its immediate authority it had all state bodies and all civil servants (even ministers would disappear in April 1794); it directed military and diplomatic activity, appointed generals and members of other committees, subject to ratification by the Convention. It held responsibility for conducting war, public order and the provisioning of the population. The Commune of Paris, a famous \"sans-culotte\" bastion, was neutralized by coming under its control.\n\nAdministrative and economic centralization went hand in hand. The state of siege forced France into autarky; to save the Republic the government mobilized all the nation's productive forces and reluctantly accepted the need for a controlled economy, which it introduced extemporaneously, as the emergency required. It was necessary to develop war production, revive foreign trade, and find new resources in France itself; and time was short. Circumstances gradually compelled it to assume the economic government of the country. Along with organization of the army, this was the most original feature of its work.\n\nAll material resources were subjected to requisitioning. Farmers surrendered their grain, fodder, wool, flax, and hemp. Artisans and merchants gave up their manufactured products. Raw materials were carefully sought out – metal of all kinds, church bells, old paper, rags and parchments, grasses, brushwood, and even household ashes for manufacturing of potassium salts, and chestnuts for distilling. All businesses were placed at the disposal of the nation – forests, mines, quarries, furnaces, forges, tanneries, paper mills, large cloth factories and shoe making workshops. The labor of men and the value of things were subject to price controls. No one had a right to speculate at the cost of \"Patrie\" while it was in danger. Armaments caused more concern. As early as September 1793 efforts were made to create a large factory in Paris for rifles and sidearms. A special appeal was made to scientists. Monge, Vandermonde, Berthollet, Darcet, Fourcroy perfected metallurgy and manufacture of arms.\n\nOnly to the wage earners did the Maximum seem thoroughly advantageous. It increased wages by one-half in relation to 1790, and commodities by only one-third. But since the Committee did not ensure that it was respected (except for bread), they would have been duped had they not been benefiting from the favorable conditions that a great war always offers the labor force. Still Paris became calmer, because the \"sans-culottes\" were gradually finding ways to subsist; the \"levée en masse\" and the formation of the revolutionary army were thinning their ranks; many now were working in arms and equipment shops, or in the offices of the committees and ministries, which were expanded enormously.\n\nDuring the summer the requisition of the levy was completed and by July the total strength of the army reached 650,000. The difficulties were tremendous. The war production just started in September. The army was in the middle of the purge. In the spring of 1794 the amalgamation was undertaken. Two battalions of volunteers joined one battalion of regulars to constitute a demi-brigade, or regiment. At the same time the command was reconstituted. The purge ended with most of the nobles excluded. The new generation reached the highest ranks, and the War College (\"Ecole de Mars\") received six young men from each district to improve the staff. Army commanders were to be appointed by the Convention.\n\nWhat gradually emerged was a military command unequaled in quality: Marceau, Hoche, Kleber, Massena, Jourdan, and a host of others, backed by officers who were sound both in their abilities as soldiers and in their sense of civic responsibility. \nFor the first time since antiquity a truly national army marched to war, and for the first time, too, a nation succeeded in arming and feeding great numbers of soldiers – these are the novel characteristics of the army of the Year II. The technical innovations resulted chiefly from its sheer size as well the strategy that developed from it. The old system of cordons lost its prestige. Moving between the armies of the Coalition, the French could maneuver along interior lines, deploy part of their troops along the frontiers, and take advantage of the inaction of any one of their enemies to beat the others. Acting \"en masse\", and overwhelming the foe by sheer numbers – such were Carnot's principles. They were still untried, and not until Bonaparte appeared did they enjoy any great success.\n\nAs late as September 1793, there were two distinct wings among the revolutionaries. Firstly those who were later called Hébertists – although Hébert himself was never the official leader of a party – advocated war to the death and adopted the program of the \"Enragés\", ostensibly because the \"sans-culottes\" approved it. The Hebertists preferred to side with the Montagnards, so long as they could hope to control the Convention through them. They dominated the Cordeliers Club, filled Bouchotte's offices, and could generally carry the Commune with them. The other wing was that of the Dantonists, which formed in response to the increasing centralization of the Revolutionary Government and the dictatorship of the Committees. The Dantonists were led predominately by deputies of the Convention (rather than the sans-culottes), including Danton, Delacroix, and Desmoulins.\n\nPutting the needs of national defense above all other considerations, the Committee of Public Safety had no intentions of giving in to the demands of either the popular movement or the moderates. In order to balance the contradictory demands of these two factions, the Revolutionary Government attempted to maintain a position halfway between the moderate Dantonists (\"citras\") and the extremist Hebertists (\"ultras\").\n\nBut at the end of the winter of 1793-4, the shortage of food took a sharp turn for the worse. The Hebertists incited \"sans-culottes\" to demand stringent measures, and at first the Committee did prove conciliatory. The Convention voted 10 million for relief, on 3 Ventose, Barère presented a new general Maximum, and on the 8th Saint-Just obtained a decree confiscating the property of suspects and distributing it to the needy (Ventose decrees). The Hebertists felt that if they increased the pressure, they would triumph once and for all. Although the call appeared like one for insurrection it was probably just for a new demonstration, like the one in September. But the Committee of Public Safety decided on 22 Ventose Year II (12 March 1794) that the Hebertists posed too serious a threat. The Committee linked Hebert, Ronsin, Vincent, and Momoro to the emigres Proli, Cloots and Pereira, so as to present the Hebertists as parties to the \"foreign plot\". All were executed on 4 Germinal (24 March). This move largely silenced the Hebertists, now without their leadership. Having succeeded in stifling dissent on the left, the Committee then turned on the Dantonists, several members of which were implicated in financial corruption. The Committee forced the Convention to lift the parliamentary immunity of nine Dantonist deputies, allowing them to be put on trial. On 5 April Dantonist leaders Danton, Delacroix, Desmoulins, and Philippeaux were executed.\n\nThe execution of the leaderships of both rival factions caused some to become disillusioned. Many \"sans-culottes\" were stunned by the Hebertists' execution. All the positions of influence traditionally held by the sans-culottes were eliminated: the Revolutionary Army was disbanded, the inspectors of food-hoarding were dismissed, Bouchotte lost the War Office, the Cordeliers Club was forced to self-censor and the Government pressure brought about closing 39 popular societies. The Paris Commune, controlled by sans-culottes, was purged and filled with Committee nominees. With the execution of the Dantonists, many of the members of the National Convention lost trust in the Committee, and even began to fear for their personal safety.\n\nUltimately, the Committee had undermined its own support by eliminating the Dantonists and Hebertists, both of which had backed the Committee. By compelling the Convention to allow the arrests of the Girondins and Dantonists, the Committee believed it had destroyed its major opposition. However, the trials demonstrated the Committee's lack of respect for members of the Convention (several of whom had been executed). Many Convention members who had sided with the Committee in the past by mid-1794 no longer supported it. The Committee had acted as mediator between the Convention and the \"sans-culottes\" from which they both had acquired their strength. By executing the Hebertists and alienating the \"sans-culottes\", the Committee became unnecessary to the Assembly.\n\nThough the Terror was organized in September 1793, it was not introduced until October. It had resulted from a popular movement. A new chapter of the Revolutionary Tribunal was opened after 5 September, divided into four sections: the Committees of Public Safety and General Security were to propose the names of judges and jurymen; Fouquier-Tinville stayed as public prosecutor, and Herman was nominated president. The Terror was meant to discourage support for the enemies of the Revolution by condemning outspoken critics of the Montagnards.\n\nThe great political trials began in October. The queen was guillotined on 16 October. A special decree stifled the defense of 21 Girondins, including Vergniaud and Brissot, and they perished on the 31st.\n\nAt the summit of the apparatus of the Terror sat the Committee of General Security, the state's second organization. It consisted of twelve members elected each month by the Convention, and vested with security, surveillance and police functions, including over civil and military authorities. It employed a large staff, headed the gradually constituted network of local revolutionary committees, and applied the law on suspects by sifting through the thousands of local denunciations and arrests which it then had to try.\n\nIt struck down the enemies of the Republic whoever and wherever they were. It was socially indiscriminate and politically perspicacious. Its victims belonged to the classes which hated the Revolution or lived in the regions where rebellion was most serious. \"The severity of repressive measures in the provinces,\" wrote Mathiez, \"was in direct proportion to danger of revolt.\" Many outspoken members of the community were tried and executed for claims of treason: Camille Desmoulins and Georges Danton were two of the more notable men executed for their \"threats\" against the Revolution.\n\nDeputies sent as \"representatives on mission\" by the Committee of Public Safety, armed with full powers, reacted according to both the local situation and their own temperaments: Lindet pacified the Girondin west in July without a single death sentence; in Lyon, some months later, Collot d'Herbois and Joseph Fouche relied on frequent summary executions by shooting because the guillotine was not working swiftly enough.\n\nThe monarchy made a distinction between French soil on the mainland and soil under French control such as the colonies. This distinction allowed for slavery to be illegal in France but continue in the colonies. Colonists in Saint Domingue wanted to have representation, 21 members due to their population size and contribution to the economy. This was shot down by the National Convention as the majority of their population were slaves and thus had no rights as citizens and contributed nothing to representative population. The Société des amis des Noirs in France originally did oppose slavery during the 1780s, however much of this opposition was ignored as a result of the French Revolution breaking out. The French showed a much greater willingness to act on the issue of slavery when the threat of a war with Spain seemed imminent. In 1792 the National Convention agreed to delegate 3 commissaries for Saint Domingue. Two of the commissaires, Léger-Félicité Sonthonax and Étienne Polverel, implemented rights for free men of color that were equal to their white counterparts. On May 5, 1793, Sonthonax and Polverel, first attacked the plantation system and forced the owners to treat the slaves better and care more for their well-being. Sonthonax then attacked slavery itself by freeing any slave Huzards, Latin for hazards, who had been armed by their masters since they could not return to peaceful plantation life. Polverel issued a proclamation in Cap Francais on June 21, 1793 which freed all slaves who agreed to fight for the French Republic from both internal and external threats. The commissaires then ruled that the Republic would pay an indemnity to the owners of female slaves marrying free men and that all children of that union would be free. The National Convention eventually allowed for 6 representative members for the colony. When pressured by the Friends of the Blacks to end the slave trade in the colonies, the National Convention refused on the grounds of slavery being too core to the French economic wealth. The committee felt “six million French people relied on the colonies to survive” and continued to stand by this argument. On October 12, 1790 the National Convention declared the only body of power who could control the status of people in the colonies were committees in the colonies themselves--this meant although free blacks met the requirement for active citizenship the white colonists would not allow it. This was done in an attempt to please the white colonists and convince them not to join forces with the British. This also gave the colonies the power to control their own laws regarding slavery and allowed for the National Convention to wash their hands of the issue. Three deputies from Saint Domingue traveled to France to attempt to persuade the National Convention to abolish slavery. The National Convention abolished slavery after hearing speeches from the deputies on February 4, 1794. However, the Committee of Public Safety delayed sending the proclamation to the colonies for two months. This was due to the apparent opposition of Robespierre to the abolition of slavery. The issue was eventually resolved following the Committee circumventing Robespierre and ordering the abolition decree to be sent to Saint Domingue. However, Napoleon's attempt to return to slavery in 1801 removed France's state of being the first to abolish slavery and led to the loss of the most prosperous French colony.\n\nThe Jacobin dictatorship could only hope to remain in power so long as it was dealing successfully with a national emergency. As soon as its political opponents had been destroyed, and its foreign enemies defeated, it would lose the chief force that kept it together. The Jacobin fall happened more rapidly than expected because of issues within the party.\n\nSo long as it remained united, the Committee was virtually invulnerable, but it had scarcely attained the apogee of its power before signs of internal conflict appeared. The Committee of Public Safety had never been a homogeneous body. It was a coalition cabinet. Its members were kept together less by comradeship or common ideals than by calculation and routine. The press of business which at first prevented personal quarrels also produced tired nerves. Trifling differences were exaggerated into the issues of life and death. Small disputes estranged them from one another. Carnot, in particular, was irritated by the criticisms directed at his plans by Robespierre and Saint-Just, Dispute followed dispute. Bickering broke out on the Committee of Public Safety, with Carnot describing Robespierre and Saint-Just as \"ridiculous dictators\" and Collot making veiled attacks on the \"Incorruptible\". From the end of June until 23 July Robespierre ceased to attend the Committee.\n\nRealizing the danger of fragmentation, they attempted a reconciliation. Saint-Just and Couthon favored it, but Robespierre doubted sincerity of his enemies. It was he who brought about the fatal intervention of the Convention. On 8 Thermidor, Year II (26 July 1794), he denounced his opponents, and demanded that \"unity of government\" be realized. When called upon to name those whom he was accusing, however, he refused. This failure destroyed him, for it was assumed that he was demanding a blank cheque. This night an uneasy alliance was formed from threatened deputies and members of The Plain. On the next day, 9 Thermidor, Robespierre and his friends were not allowed to speak, and their indictment was decreed. The men of the extreme left played the leading roles: Billaud-Varenne, who attacked, and Collot d'Herbois, who presided.\n\nOn hearing the news the Paris Commune, loyal to the man who had inspired it, called for an insurrection and released the arrested deputies in the evening and mobilized two or three thousand militants. The night of 9–10 Thermidor was one of great confusion in Paris, as Commune and Assembly competed for the support of the sections and their troops. The Convention proclaimed that the rebels were henceforth outlaws; Barras was given the task of mustering an armed force, and the moderate sections gave this their support. The National Guardsmen and artillerymen assembled outside the \"Hotel de Ville\" were left without instructions and little by little they dispersed and left the square deserted. Around two o'clock in the morning a column from Gravilliers section led by Léonard Bourdon burst in the \"Hotel de Ville\" and arrested insurgents.\n\nOn the evening of 10 Thermidor (28 July 1794), Robespierre, Saint-Just, Couthon and nineteen of their political allies were executed without trial. On the following day it was the turn of a large batch of 71 men, the largest mass execution in the entire course of the Revolution.\n\nWhatever reasons the conspirators had behind 9 Thermidor, the events afterwards went beyond their intentions. Evidently the remaining members on the Committees counted on staying in office and currying the favour of the Jacobin dictatorship, as though nothing more had happened than a party purge.\n\nThey were speedily disabused of this notion. Robespierrists might go out and Dantonists come in; the Convention had recovered its initiative and would put an end, once and for all, to the dictatorial committees government which had ousted it from power. It was decreed that no member of governing committees should hold office for more than four months. Three days later the Prairial Law was repealed and the Revolutionary Tribunal shorn of its abnormal powers. The Commune was replaced with a Commission of Civil Administrators (\"commission des administrateurs civils\") from the ranks of the Conventions. In November the Jacobin club was closed. Not merely anti-Robespierrist but anti-Jacobin reaction was in full flood. At the beginning of September Billaud, Collot and Barère left the Committee of Public Safety; by the end of the year they were in prison.\n\nThe stability of the government was weakening. Next came the concentration of power, another revolutionary principle. The identification of the Committee of Public Safety with the executive was ended on 7 Fructidor (24 August), restricting it to its former domain of war and diplomacy. The Committee of General Security kept its control over the police. There was now to be a total of sixteen committees. \"Conventionnels\", while aware of the dangers of fragmentation, were even more worried by its experience of monopoly of powers. In a few weeks the revolutionary government was dismantled.\n\nThese measures affected, finally, the instruments of the Terror and opened numerous breaches in the apparatus of repression. The law of 22 Prairial was repealed, the prisons were opened and \"suspects\" were released: 500 in Paris in a single week. A few public trials were staged — including those of Carrier, held responsible for the mass-drowning at Nantes, and Fouquier-Tinville, notorious as the public prosecutor of the Great Terror of the late spring and summer of 1794 – after which the Revolutionary Tribunal was quietly put aside.\n\nThe destruction of the system of revolutionary government eventually brought about the end of the 'Economic Terror'. \"Maximum\" was relaxed even before 9 Thermidor. Now virtually nobody believed in price controls any longer. Because the black market was plentifully supplied, the idea took hold that price controls equaled scarcity and that free trade, therefore, would bring back abundance. It was generally supposed by the free trade minded Physiocrat economists within France that prices would at first rise but that then they would fall as a result of competition. This illusion, however, was to be shattered in the winter of 1794-1795. Formally, the National Convention had put the end to the \"maximum\" as the season had started on the Christmas Eve of 4 Nivose Year III (24 December 1794).\n\nThat winter, the abandonment of the controlled economy provoked a frightful catastrophe. Prices soared and the rate of exchange fell. The Republic was condemned to massive inflation and its currency was ruined. In Thermidor, Year III, \"assignats\" were worth less than 3% of their face value. Neither peasants nor merchants would accept anything but cash. The debacle was so swift that economic life seemed to come to standstill.\n\nThe crisis was greatly aggravated by famine. Peasants, finally, stopped bringing any produce to market, because they did not wish to accept \"assignats\". The government continued to provision Paris, but was unable to supply the promised rations. In provinces local municipalities resorted to some sort of regulations, provided not direct coercion in obtaining provisions. The misery of rural day laborers, abandoned by everyone, was often appalling. Inflation ruined creditors to the advantage of debtors. It unleashed an unprecedented speculation.\n\nAt the beginning of spring in March-April 1795, scarcity was such that more unrest appeared almost everywhere. The City of Paris was 'active' once again.\n\nDiscontent increased along with the shortages. On 17 March a delegation from \"faubourgs Saint-Marceau and Saint-Jacques\" complained that \"We are on the verge of regretting all the sacrifices that we have made for the Revolution.\" Police law was passed which lay down the death penalty for use of seditious language. Arms were distributed to the \"good citizens\", the faithful nucleus of the National Guard. The trial of strength was approaching.\nOn 10 Germinal (30 March) all the sections called their general assemblies. The political geography of Paris emerged clearly from this. Convention debate was centered on two issues: the fate of Barère, Collot, Billaud and Vadier, and the implementation of the constitution of 1793. While in the sections of the center and the west formal addresses called for the punishment of the \"Four\" and passed over the food shortages, the sections of the east and the \"faubourgs\" demanded measures to deal with the grain crisis, the implementation of the constitution of 1793, the reopening of the popular societies and the release of the imprisoned patriots.\n\nOn the morning of 12 Germinal (1 April) crowds gathered on the \"Ile de la Cité\" and, pushing aside the palace guards, burst into the chamber where the Convention met. Amidst the uproar, spokesmen of the sections outlined the people's grievances. Reliable battalions of National Guard were called and demonstrators, lacking arms and leaders, were forced to withdraw. For the most people it was the constitution of 1793 – seen as a liberating utopia – which represented the solution to all evils. There were others who openly regretted the passing of \"the reign of Robespierre\".\nBut it was not the end. A new explosion was on the horizon. Insurrection was being openly prepared. On 1 Prairial (20 May 1795) the alarm bells sounded in the \"faubourgs\" Saint-Antoine and Marceau. The armed battalions arrived at Place du Carousel and entered the sitting chamber. After an hour of uproar, \"The Insurrection of the People\" (\"L'Insurection du Peuple\") was read. In the chaos, none of the ringleaders thought of implementing the key item of the program: the overthrow of the government.\n\nThe remainder of the Montagnards, The Crest (\"la Crête de la Montagne\"), managed to obtain the passage of decrees favorable to the rebels. But at 11:30 p.m. two armed columns entered the chamber and cleared out the rioters. The next day insurgents repeated the same mistakes and after receiving promises from the deputies to take speedy measures against the famine, returned to the sections.\n\nOn 3 Prairial the government assembled loyal troops, chasseurs and dragoons, national guardsmen, selected from those \"who had fortune to preserve\" — 20,000 men in all. Faubourg Saint-Antoine was surrounded and on 4 Prairial surrendered and was disarmed. Uncertainty about how to react, hesitancy in action, and lack of revolutionary leadership had doomed the popular movement to throw away its last chance in battle.\n\n4 Prairial Year III is one of the crucial dates of the revolutionary period. The people had ceased to be a political force, participants in history. They were now no more than victims or spectators.\n\nThe victors now could set up a new constitution, the task the National Convention was originally elected for. The Commission of Eleven (the most notable members of which were Daunou, Lanjuinais, Boissy d'Anglas, Thibaudeau and La Révellière) drafted a text which would reflect the new balance of power. It was presented on 5 Messidor (23 June) and passed on 22 August 1795 (5 Fructidor of the Year III).\n\nThe new constitution went back to the constitution of 1791 as to the dominant ideology of the country. Equality was certainly confirmed, but within the limits of civil equality. Numerous democratic rights of the constitution 1793 – the right to work, to relief, to education – were omitted. The Convention wanted to define rights and simultaneously reject both the privilege of the old order and social leveling.\n\nThe constitution went back to the distinction between active and passive citizens. Only citizens over twenty-five years old, disposing of an income of two hundred days of work, were eligible to be electors. This electoral body, which held the real power, included 30,000 people, half as many as in 1791. Guided by recent experience, institutions were set up to protect the Republic from two dangers: the omnipotence of an assembly and dictatorship.\n\nBicameral legislature as a precaution against sudden political fluctuations was proposed: the Council of Five Hundred with rights to propose laws and Council of the Ancients, 250 deputies, with powers to accept or reject proposed laws. Executive power was to be shared between five Directors chosen by the Ancients from the list drawn by Five Hundred. One of the Directors would be renewed each year with re-election after five years. As one of the practical precautions, no military were allowed within 60 miles of the sitting assembly and it could relocate in case of danger. The Directory still retained great power, including emergency powers to curb freedom of the press and freedom of association.\n\nThe Constitution generally was accepted favorably, even by those on the right, who were hopeful for the upcoming elections and even more happy to get rid of the legislative body so hated by them.\n\nBut how to make sure that the new elected body would not overturn the constitution as it was before with Legislative Assembly? Thermidorians attempted this on 5 Fructidor (22 August) by voting for a decree on \"formation of a new legislative body\". Article II stipulated: \"All members presently active in the Convention are re-eligible. Election assemblies may not take fewer than two-thirds of them to form the legislative body\". This was known as the Law of the Two-Thirds.\n\nOn 23 September the results were announced: the constitution was accepted by 1,057,390 votes, with 49,978 against. The Two-Thirds decrees obtained only 205,498 votes in favor and 108,754 against.\n\nBut the Convention had not taken into account those Paris sections who were against Two-Thirds decrees and failed to provide precise vote figures: 47 Parisian sections had rejected the decrees. Eighteen of the Paris sections contested the result. The \"Lepeletier\" section issued a call to insurrection. By 11 Vendemiaire seven sections were in state of revolt, sections which were the base of the Convention since 9 Thermidor and now won by the far right if not royalists. The Convention declared itself permanent. The \"conventionnels\" knew the score. They knew the art of insurrection by heart and to bring down \"muscadins\" was easier than the \"sans-culottes\". Five members including Barras were appointed to deal with the crisis. A decree of 12 Vendemiaire (4 October) repealed the former disarmament of the former terrorists and an appeal to \"sans-culottes\" was issued.\n\nDuring the nights of Vendemiaire 12-13 (October 4–5), General Jacques de Menou de Boussay was tasked with putting down the royalist rebels and keep them from attacking the Convention. He recruited other generals to help aid in quelling the insurrection such as, Napoleon Bonaparte. The rebels outnumbered the Army by the thousands, but because of their preparations the night before, Bonaparte and the armies were able to line the road into Paris with cannons from Sablons Camp. Without a way into Paris, the rebels surrendered to the Convention on Vendemiaire 13. Barras and the Convention gave the armies permission to kill. Within 45 minutes over 300 royalist rebels were dead in front of the Church of Saint Roch. The rest had scattered and fled.\n\nModerate repression ensued and the White Terror in the south was stopped. On 4 Brumaire Year IV, just before breaking up, the Convention voted a general amnesty for \"deeds exclusively connected with the Revolution\".\n\nThe article on the Convention in the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica concludes, \"The work of the Convention was immense in all branches of public affairs. To appreciate it without prejudice, one should recall that this assembly saved France from a civil war and invasion, that it founded the system of public education (\"Museum\", , , , ), created institutions of capital importance, like that of the , and definitely established the social and political gains of the Revolution.\" By a decree of 4 February 1794 (16 pluviôse) it also ratified and expanded to the whole French colonial empire the 1793 abolition of slavery on Saint-Domingue by civil commissioners Sonthonax and Polverel, though this did not affect Martinique or Guadeloupe and was abolished by the law of 20 May 1802.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56766396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56766396", "title": "Olympic quota allocation system", "text": "Olympic quota allocation system\n\nThe Olympic quota allocation system is a program designed to limit the number of athletes participating, and prevent a small number of countries from dominating the field of an Olympic event.\n\nInitially freestyle skiing had two events (moguls and aerials). There were quotas brought in to limit the number of competitors (particularly from the United States and Canada), which are highly competitive in the two events. for the 2010 Olympics the quota system limited the competition for men and women's freestyle skiing (moguls, aerials, and ski-cross) to 180 athletes. Irrespective of international ranking, each country could only have eighteen athletes, and a maximum of ten men or ten women. With the addition of slopestyle and half-pipe in the Sochi Olympics in 2014 the quotas were increased to 282 total athletes, 26 per country, and 14 per gender. This resulted in countries having to limit their participation, despite having eligible athletes. For example, Canada could have sent 33 participants based on international ranking, however they were limited to 26 quota spots. For the 2018 Winter Olympics, the number of athletes participating remained the same, but the number of quota spots increased to a maximum of thirty per country.\n\nSnowboarding has a similar quota program to freestyle skiing, with 26 spots available per country. For the 2018 Winter Olympics the only country to fill all of its quota spots was the United States.\n\nFor the 2018 Winter Olympics, a maximum of 170 athletes could compete, and a maximum of three teams per event, with the host nation allotted at least one space.\n"}
{"id": "3328886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3328886", "title": "Qahal", "text": "Qahal\n\nThe Qahal () was a theocratic organizational structure in ancient Israelite society according to the Hebrew Bible. In later centuries, \"Qahal\" was the name of the autonomous governments of Ashkenazi Jews until being abolished in the 1840s.\n\nThe Hebrew word \"qahal\", which is a close etymological relation of the name of \"Qoheleth\" (Ecclesiastes), comes from a root meaning \"convoked [group]\"; its Arabic cognate, \"qāla\", means \"to speak\". \n\nWhere the Masoretic Text uses the term \"qahal\", the Septuagint usually uses the Koine Greek term \"ekklesia\", , which means \"summoned group\" (literally, \"they who are called out\"). However, in one particular part of the Priestly Code, the Septuagint instead uses the term , literally meaning \"gathering\", where the Masoretic Text uses \"qahal\". This last term is the origin of the word \"synagogue\".\n\nThus, the usual translation of \"qahal\" is \"congregation\" or \"assembly\", although \"asuppot\", \"aṣarah\", \"ʿedah\", \"moʿed\", \"miqra\", and \"sod\", are also usually translated like this. \n\nIn particular, the Biblical text consistently distinguishes between \"ʿedah\" and \"qahal\". One passage especially makes the distinction clear; part of the Priestly Code discusses what to do if \"the whole Israelite ['edah] commits a sin and the [qahal] is not aware of it[.]\" Scholars conclude that the \"qahal\" must be a judicial body composed of representatives of the \"ʿedah\"; in some biblical passages, \"ʿedah\" is more accurately translated as \"swarm\".\n\nThe Deuteronomic Code prohibits certain members of the \"ʿedah\" from taking part in the \"qahal of Yahweh\". In particular, it excludes \"mamzers\", and men who have been forcibly emasculated. The descendants of \"mamzers,\" up to the tenth generation, were also prohibited by this law code from taking part in the \"congregation of Yahweh\". \n\nThe Greek term \"eunuch\" is usually used to refer forcibly emasculated men, but it is also used in the Septuagint to denote certain foreign political officials (resembling the meaning of \"eunuch\"). This category does not include men who were born without visible testicles (conditions including cryptorchidism), or without a visible penis (conditions including hermaphroditism). There is dispute, even in traditional Judaism, about whether this prohibited group of men should include those who have become, at some point since their birth, emasculated as the result of a disease\n\nNo explanation of the phrase \"mamzer\" is given in the Masoretic Text, but the Septuagint translates it as \"son of a prostitute\" (). In the Talmud, it is suggested that the word \"mamzer\" derives from \"mum zer\", meaning \"a strange blemish\", and thus suggesting illicit parentage in some sense. There are differing opinions in the Talmud as to what this consists of, but the universally accepted ruling is that it refers to the offspring of adultery (defined as relations with a married woman) or incest, as defined in the Book of Leviticus.\n\nIn the Talmud, there is fierce dispute about whether or not the term \"mamzer\" included a child who had a Jewish mother, and a father who is either non-Jewish or a slave (or both); although the Talmud eventually concludes that this is not the case, a number of scholars now suspect that this was actually the original definition of \"mamzer\". Abraham Geiger, a prominent Jewish scholar and rabbi of the mid 19th century, suggested that the etymological origin of \"mamzer\" might be \"ma'am zar\", which means \"belonging to a foreign people\".\n\nThe Talmud interprets the exclusion of certain people from the \"qahal\" as a prohibition against ordinary Jews marrying such people. Additionally, the biblical reference to the \"tenth generation\" was interpreted, by the classical rabbis, as an idiom meaning \"forever\"; thus the Talmud forbids all the descendants, forever, of these people from being married to ordinary Jews.\n\nIn the 16th century, Jewish communities in the south of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth began to set up new qahals to administer tax collection. These had a minimum of 8 members, and in average Jewish communities had a membership of 22-35 Jews. Their executives were elected by the local Jewish community, and consisted of 4 \"elders\" (Hebrew: \"zaqen\") with a further 3-5 \"honorary members\" (Hebrew: \"tuvim\"). There was one qahal for each Jewish community, although smaller qahals were often made subject to larger ones. \n\nThese Polish-Lithuanian qahals quickly came to be politically autonomous bodies with major regulatory control over Jewish communities in the region; they administered commerce, hygiene, sanitation, charity, Jewish education, \"kashrut\", and relations between landlords and their tenants. They provided a number of community facilities, such as a rabbi, a mikveh (ritual bath), and gemachen (interest-free loans). Qahals even had sufficient authority that they could arrange for individuals to be expelled from synagogues, excommunicating them.\n\nHowever, rich and powerful individuals gradually began to dominate qahals, abusing their position for their own benefit. As a result, by the 18th century, many ordinary Jews had begun to clamour for the abolition of the institution. \"In 1844 they were officially abolished by the tsarist regime in Ukraine and most of the rest of the empire; they continued to exist only in the Baltic region. Afterwards, Jewish communities were given jurisdiction only over religious and charitable affairs, and occasionally over education.\"\n\nThe \"Kahal\" exists as a theme in anti-Jewish conspiracy theory literature. The theme originated with Jacob Brafman, a Russian Jew who had a falling out with Minsk kahal tax-agents and to get revenge converted to the Orthodox Church, authoring polemics against the Talmud and the \"Kahal\". Brafmann authored the books \"The Local and Universal Jewish Brotherhoods\" (1868) and \"The Book of the Kahal\" (1869), where he claimed that the \"kahal\" was an international network under the control of the \"Alliance Israélite Universelle\" and had as its aim undermining Christian entrepreneurs, taking over their property and ultimately seizing power. This theory was taken up by anti-Jewish publications in Russia and was taken seriously by some Russian officials such as P. A. Cherevin and Nikolay Pavlovich Ignatyev who in the 1880s urged governor-generals of provinces to seek out a supposed \"universal Jewish kahal.\" Brafmann's image of the \"kahal\" spread throughout the world, making its way to the United States by 1881 as it was translated by Zénaïde Alexeïevna Ragozin in \"The Century Magazine\". It prepared the groundwork for \"The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion\" and the word \"Kahal\" features in that text. It is also discussed in other conspiracy works such as Edith Starr Miller's \"Occult Theocrasy\" (1933) which ties it to the Order of the Illuminati.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1311575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1311575", "title": "Republic (Faroe Islands)", "text": "Republic (Faroe Islands)\n\nRepublic (), formerly known as the Republican Party () is a left-wing political party in the Faroe Islands committed to Faroese independence.\n\nThe party was founded in 1948 as a reaction to the islands failing to gain independence despite the outcome of the 1946 independence referendum, after which independence was subsequently declared but annulled by the Danish King.\n\nIn 1998 Høgni Hoydal succeeded Heini O. Heinesen as party leader.\n\nAt the legislative elections, held on 20 January 2004, the party won 21.7% of the popular vote and 8 out of 33 seats. However, after the passing of an amendment adding the phrase 'sexual orientation' to paragraph 266b of the Anti-Discrimination Act, MP Karsten Hansen announced that he was leaving the party owing to a difference in opinion. He later joined the Centre Party.\n\nAt the elections on 19 January 2008, the party won 23.3% of the vote and 8 out of 33 seats.\n\nIn 2007, the party changed its name from \"Tjóðveldisflokkurin\" to simply \"Tjóðveldi\" (i.e., from \"the Republican Party\" to just \"Republic\").\n\nIn the Danish parliamentary elections of 2007, the party received 25.4% of the Faroese vote, thereby retaining one of the two Faroese seats in the Danish national Folketing. In the 2011 election, however, its votes declined and it lost its seat to the Social Democrats. It regained its seat in the 2015 election.\n\nTjóðveldi's member of the Faroese parliament since 1 September 2015. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "13874738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13874738", "title": "Running Start: Bringing Young Women to Politics", "text": "Running Start: Bringing Young Women to Politics\n\nRunning Start is a nonpartisan nonprofit that trains and inspires young women to run for office. Since its founding in 2007, Running Start has trained and inspired more than 12,500 high school, college, and young professional women. Each year, Running Start hosts at least 100 trainings around the country.\n\nRunning Start focuses on research, education, and outreach. It intends to be the United States' premiere resource on young women and politics with nonpartisan, accurate data about young women candidates and their unique role in politics.\nRunning Start also introduces college and high school girls to the power of politics through education initiatives. These include the Young Women's Political Leadership Training, the Running Start/Walmart Star Fellowship, Campaign College, the Women to Watch Awards, and Path to Politics lunch series.\n\nThe Young Women's Political Leadership Training program introduces high school girls to politics, equips them with the skills necessary for political leadership, and inspires them to become political leaders. Young candidates and elected officials speak to the girls about what it is like to run as a young woman, how to get involved on a local level, and why they feel it is important to get more women elected. The Political Leadership Program is held in July each year. Due to the high success of this program, Running Start has developed shorter programs in major cities across the country, beginning in New York City and California.\n\nThe Running Start/Walmart Star Fellowship program, launched in September 2009, brings 14 female college students or recent graduates to Washington, DC each year to learn about politics and work on Capitol Hill for a female Member of Congress. The Fellows hone their political skills and learn about the legislative process first-hand. Each Friday, the fellows take part in a seminar conducted by Running Start which heightens their internship experience by giving them the skills and contacts they need to become political leaders. Fellows must also interview the Congresswoman they intern with. The Fellows emerge from this semester in DC with a deeper understanding of the need for more women to run for office, and confidence in their own abilities to lead, whether at their schools or on the national stage.\nCampaign College is an initiative in which Running Start, the Women and Politics Institute at American University, and the American Association of University Women work with student governments at colleges around the country to train college women on how to run for office.\nThe Women to Watch awards is an annual event which honors impressive young women leaders under 40. In 2009, honorees included Erin Burnett, CNBC television anchor; Julie Gilbert, founder and CEO of WOLF Means Business; Tammy Duckworth, Assistant Secretary of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs; Betsy Fischer, Executive Producer of \"Meet the Press\"; and Mona Sutphen, Deputy Chief of Staff to the Obama Administration. In 2008, honorees included Dana Perino, White House Press Secretary; Linda Rottenberg, CEO of Endeavour; Ayaan Hirsi Ali, Dutch Parliamentarian; Cathy Lanier, DC Chief of Police; and Michelle Rhee, DC Schools Chancellor. By honoring these outstanding women, the event inspires young women and girls to take their leadership to the next level. Proceeds from the Women to Watch Awards benefit Running Start's research and education programs. This gala event is held annually in May at the National Press Club in Washington, DC.\nThe Path to Politics luncheon series brings together young women interested in running for public office and gives them the opportunity to meet young women legislators and candidates over lunch. The speakers focus on a particular aspect of what it is like to run or serve as a young woman. Each seminar focuses on practical advice, such as fundraising, building one's base, working with the national parties, and establishing credibility as a young woman legislature, as well as inspiring the audience to run for office themselves.\n\nThrough these and other programs, Running Start seeks to educate young women about how they can make a difference in politics by becoming candidates themselves.\n\n"}
{"id": "33393432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33393432", "title": "Settler society", "text": "Settler society\n\nSettler society is a theoretical term in early modern and modern history that describes a common link between modern, predominantly European, attempts to permanently settle in other areas of the world. It is used to distinguish settler colonies from resource extraction colonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28564583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28564583", "title": "Socialist People's Front", "text": "Socialist People's Front\n\nThe Socialist People's Front (SPF; ) is a left-wing political party in Lithuania formed out of the December 19, 2009, merger of the Front Party and Lithuanian Socialist Party. Held at Vilnius University, the party's foundation featured 102 delegates. The merger was approved by an affirmative vote of 96 delegates, with three against and one abstaining. The leader of the Lithuanian Socialist Party, Giedrius Petružis, refused candidacy for chairperson of the merged party, claiming a desire to return to academic life. The leader of the Front Party, Algirdas Paleckis, was unanimously chosen as the leader of the SPF.\n\nThe party participated in the 22nd international Communist seminar held in 2013.\n\nThe ideology of the SPF is democratic socialist. The party's by-laws and programme were ratified on at the party's founding on December 19, 2009. The party's by-laws indicate that the \"Party is an inseparable part of the international leftist movement. It actively pursues the strengthening of bonds of friendship between Lithuania and other nations, fights for the continuation and strengthening of peace, and maintains contact with international nongovernmental organizations that adhere to the principles of democracy and socialism.\" The goals of the party include \"the institution of democratic socialism in Lithuania and the strengthening of a unified public, whose members help each other.\" The by-laws also indicate that:\n\nThe SPF congress is the supreme organ of the party. The congress chooses the party's executive council, which oversees and organizes the activity of the party in between congresses, received decisions regarding creating coalitions with other parties, and approves the budget, any reports on the use of funds, and the candidacy of the head of the election committee. The party's sole leader is the chairperson. Territorial subgroups of the party are its chapters and groups.\n\nThe party participated in Parliamentary elections and came 11th with 16,515 (1.21%) votes and no seats. The municipal elections in 2015 were more successful, as the political block the party participated in received 68 seats, of which 2 were delegates of SPF, including Rafael Muksinov, a current member of Vilnius City Council. The party council decided not to participate in the parliamentary election in 2016.\n\nThe SPF caused controversy twice in 2010 when members of the party were denied entry into Estonia. On April 21, party leader Algirdas Paleckis was part of a group of activists traveling to Estonia to protest NATO's policy regarding the war in Afghanistan. Paleckis was told that he was on the Estonian persona non-grata list because of his political views and activities. In late June, SPF activists, along with anti-fascists from Latvia, were denied entry on their way to protest a meeting of veterans of the 20th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS near the Vaivara concentration camp. The activists were told that their vehicle was not fit for entry, and, according to the SPF, the only member of the SPF who managed the border crossing into Estonia was not on the official SPF list of activists and had not been mentioned by name by protest organizers over the telephone.\n\nIn 2011, Lithuanian authorities had initiated prosecution against Paleckis for his denial of Soviet aggression against Lithuania, or, to be more specific, against his claim that Soviet soldiers and special units were not responsible for the deaths of 14 people (including one victim of friendly fire) in January 13, 1991. Paleckis allegedly found several witnesses and ballistic assessments that seemed to indicate that there were secret snipers on the roof of the Vilnius TV centre who were shooting into the civilians. He then went on to state publicly that \"it appears that in January 1991 our own people were shooting at our own people.\" It was the first verdict in Lithuania's history on charges of denying aggressive conduct of the Soviet Union. A Vilnius court had vindicated Paleckis in January 2012. The prosecution had appealed, and Paleckis was sentenced to a fine of 10,400 litas on June 12, 2012. Paleckis himself claimed that there was purportedly no independent investigation into the events of January 13, 1991 at the Vilnius TV tower.\n\nThe party also hails the Constitution of People's Seimas, adopted by the puppet government led by Justas Paleckis.\n\nDuring the demonstration to commemorate Independence Day of Lithuania on February 15, 2014, the leader of Kaunas' branch Giedrius Grabauskas commented on the Act of March 11 as the one \"having brought severe consequences to Lithuania\".\n\nDuring the events of EuroMaidan the party was one of very few in Lithuania who clearly expressed support for a then-president Viktor Yanukovych. In May 20, 2014 the party, together with other small radical organisations, organised a small rally in front of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to voice its opposition towards Lithuanian foreign policy during the Russia-Ukraine conflict, making accusations for \"representing the interests of the US and EU, not Lithuanian ones\".\n\nA former leader Algirdas Paleckis left the party in January 2016, just before the Parliamentary election. He motivated such a decision by \"diverted opinions with the party leadership\", their \"overestimation of the significance of rallies and underestimation of the one of participation in the election\". As a result, Paleckis participated in the election as an independent candidate in Naujoji Vilnia. The party with a new leadership started to use more nationalist rhetoric.\n\nEven though the party is economically far-left, with the statements often attacking free market economics, it has voiced its ultra-Conservatism in issues, such as LGBT rights and immigration policy. One of its members Sergejus Sokolovas in its interview declared that leftists should fight sexual minorities rather than support them. He also referred to the supporters of LGBT movement as \"tolerasts\", a pun of tolerance and paederasty frequently used by the hate speech groups. Its former leader Algirdas Paleckis would be among the initiators for organising the referendum on banning land sales to foreigners. The party also opposes quotas for refugees and participated in an anti-refugee rally held in Šiauliai in November 14, 2015. Other than European refugee crisis that they referred to as a 'involuntary immigration', the rally also highlighted \"human rights abuses of the working class\", \"war propaganda\" and \"Russophobia\". The demonstration also saw the attendance of a syncretic sister organisation \"The Combat\", as well as Way of Courage and right-wing populist Fighters for Lithuania Union, former neo-Nazi activist Žilvinas Razminas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52034286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52034286", "title": "Super recogniser", "text": "Super recogniser\n\n\"Super recognisers\" is a term coined in 2009 by Harvard and University College London researchers for people with significantly better-than-average face recognition ability. Super recognisers are able to memorise and recall thousands of faces, often having seen them only once.\n\nThe skill is recognised and employed among the British intelligence community. It is the extreme opposite of prosopagnosia. It is estimated that 1 to 2% of the population are super recognisers who can remember 80% of faces they have seen. Most people can only remember about 20% of faces. They can match faces better than computer recognition systems in some circumstances. The science behind this is poorly understood but may be related to the fusiform face area part of the brain.\n\nIn May 2015, the London Metropolitan Police officially formed a team made up of people with this heightened capability for recognising people and put them to work identifying individuals whose faces are captured on CCTV. Scotland Yard has a squad of over 200 super recognisers. In August 2018, it was reported that the Metropolitan Police had used two super recognisers to identify the suspects of the attack on Sergei and Yulia Skripal, after trawling through up to 5,000 hours of CCTV footage from Salisbury and numerous airports across the country.\nSuper recognisers performed well in the Glasgow Face Matching Test in comparison with a control group.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1803866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1803866", "title": "Surveillance abuse", "text": "Surveillance abuse\n\nSurveillance abuse is the use of surveillance methods or technology to monitor the activity of an individual or group of individuals in a way which violates the social norms or laws of a society.\n\nDuring the FBI's COINTELPRO operations, there was widespread surveillance abuse which targeted political dissidents, primarily people from the political left and civil rights movement.\n\nOther abuses include \"LOVEINT\" which refers to the practice of secret service employees using their extensive monitoring capabilities to spy on their love interest or spouse.\n\nThere is no prevention in the amount of unauthorized data collected on individuals and this leads to cases where cameras are installed inappropriately. “For instance, according to the BBC, four council workers in Liverpool used a street CCTV pan-tilt-zoom camera to spy on a woman in her apartment.” (Cavallaro,2007). This is just one case where culprits have been caught; however, there are still many common acts such as this. Another incident of inappropriate installation now has “Pennsylvania parents suing their son's school, alleging it watched him through his laptop's webcam while he was at home and unaware he was being observed.” (Surveillance Camera Players, 2010). This leads to the misconception of surveillance, as it once was a tool to monitor and make sure citizens abide by the law, it has now created even more problems. With cameras only becoming more advanced and more common, it is difficult to determine whether these surveillance cameras are helping to ensure a safe society or leading to bigger issues altogether.\n\nWith the growing of Web 2.0, social networking sites, surveillance may be more easily and commonly abused in many situations for a variety of reasons. The Communications Security Establishment (CSE), formerly known as Communications Security Establishment Canada (CSEC), has previously spied on Canadians through the public wireless internet connections in an airport in the country. Through this they gathered information on who people called or texted and where they were when they communicated with others. The CSE search through approximately 10-15 million downloads daily. An example of where surveillance may have been abused is where Facebook and Apple have admitted to allowing government officials to access personal information of their account users. \n\nA device which may be used to abuse surveillance, called a Stingray, acts and looks similar to a cellphone tower but it tricks mobile devices into connecting with it. After connected an operator can take information stored on the device, sometimes intercepting phone calls and text messages. This method of surveillance can be used on random civilians or in an investigation of a particular person.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16492832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16492832", "title": "Sustainable diet", "text": "Sustainable diet\n\nSustainable diets are defined as \"those diets with low environmental impacts that contribute to food and nutritional security and to healthy lives for present and future generations. Sustainable diets are protective and respectful of biodiversity and ecosystems, culturally acceptable, accessible, economically fair and affordable, are nutritionally adequate, safe, and healthy, and optimize natural and human resources.\" These diets attempt to address undernourishment, nutrient deficiencies and obesity and covers ecological phenomena such as climate change, loss of biodiversity and land degradation.\n\nAs a theme, it also covers the study of eating patterns that look at the impact that food consumption has on planetary resources and the health of humans and promotes the needs of the environment, society, and the economy. This growing body of research is recognized by a variety of international bodies such as the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health Organization (WHO).\n\nIn 2010, the FAO and Bioversity International defined a sustainable diet as:those diets with low environmental impacts which contribute to food and nutrition security and to healthy life for present and future generations. Sustainable diets are protective and respectful of biodiversity and ecosystems, culturally acceptable, accessible, economically fair and affordable; nutritionally adequate, safe and healthy; while optimizing natural and human resources.\n\nSustainable diets mostly concentrate on issues that have something to do with Low Carbon Diets which are structured to reduce the impact of global warming. Others also focus on broader environmental factors, as well as social and economic challenges.\n\nOther regionalized diets include the Mediterranean diet and the Nordic diet which emphasizes the consumption of local foodstuffs.\n\n"}
{"id": "467568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467568", "title": "Tambov Rebellion", "text": "Tambov Rebellion\n\nThe Tambov Rebellion (historically referred to in the Soviet Union as \"Antonovshchina\"), which occurred between 1920 and 1921, was one of the largest and best-organized peasant rebellions challenging the Bolshevik regime during the Russian Civil War. The uprising took place in the territories of the modern Tambov Oblast and part of the Voronezh Oblast, less than 300 miles southeast of Moscow.\n\nIn Soviet historiography, the rebellion was referred to as the \"Antonov's mutiny\", or \"Antonovschina\", named so after Alexander Antonov, a former official of the Socialist Revolutionary Party, a Chief of staff of the rebels. The movement was later portrayed by the Soviets as anarchical banditry, similar to other anti-Soviet movements that opposed them during this period.\n\nThe rebellion was caused by the forced confiscation of grain by the Bolshevik authorities, a policy known in Russian as \"prodrazvyorstka\". In 1920, the requisitions were increased from 18 million to 27 million poods in the region. This caused the peasants to reduce their grain production since they knew that anything they did not consume themselves would be immediately confiscated. Filling the state quotas meant death for many by starvation.\n\nThe revolt began on 19 August 1920 in a small town of Khitrovo, where a military requisitioning detachment of the Red Army appropriated everything they could and \"beat up elderly men of seventy in full view of the public\".\n\nA distinctive feature of this rebellion, among the many of these times, was that it was led by a political organization, the Union of Working Peasants (\"Soyuz Trudovogo Krestyanstva\"). A Congress of Tambov rebels abolished Soviet power and created the Constituent Assembly that called for universal suffrage and land reform. A major tenet proposed by them was returning all land to the peasants.\n\nOn 2 February 1921, the Soviet leadership announced the end of the \"\"prodrazvyorstka\", and issued a special decree directed at peasants from the region implementing the \"prodnalog\" policy. The new policy was essentially a tax on grain and other foodstuffs. This was done prior to the 10th Congress of the Bolsheviks, when the measure was officially adopted. The announcement began circulating in the Tambov area on 9 February 1921. The Tambov uprising and unrest elsewhere were significant reasons that the \"prodnalog\" policy was implemented and the \"prodrazvyorstka\"\" was abandoned.\n\nAlexander Antonov, a radical member of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries, had sided with the Bolsheviks during the Russian Revolution in 1917, but he became disenchanted with them after they implemented a policy of grain requisition in 1918. Antonov became a popular hero to the people of the Tambov region of central Russia where he started his campaigns.\n\nIn October 1920 the peasant army numbered over 50,000 fighters; numerous deserters from the Red Army joined it. The rebel militia proved highly effective and even infiltrated the Tambov Cheka. Alexander Schlichter, Chairman of the Tambov Gubernia Executive Committee, contacted Vladimir Lenin, who ordered Red Army reinforcements to the area. In January 1921 peasant revolts spread to Samara, Saratov, Tsaritsyn, Astrakhan and Siberia. In February, the peasant army reached its peak, numbering up to 70,000 and successfully defending the area against Bolshevik expeditions.\n\nThe seriousness of the uprising caused the establishment of the \"Plenipotentiary Commission of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee of the Bolshevik Party for the Liquidation of Banditry in the Gubernia of Tambov\". With the end of the Polish–Soviet War (in March 1921) and the defeat of General Wrangel in 1920, the Red Army could divert its regular troops into the area - deploying in total over 100,000 Red Army soldiers, alongside special Cheka detachments.\n\nThe Red Army, under the command of Mikhail Tukhachevsky, used heavy artillery and armoured trains and also engaged in the summary execution of civilians. Tukhachevsky and Vladimir Antonov-Ovseyenko signed an order, dated 12 June 1921, which stipulated:\n\nThe Bolshevik forces used chemical weapons \"from end of June 1921 until apparently the fall of 1921\", by direct order from the leadership of Red Army and from the Communist Party. Publications in local Communist newspapers openly glorified liquidations of \"bandits\" with the poison gas.\n\nSeven concentration camps were set up. At least 50,000 people were interned, mostly women, children, and the elderly - some of them sent to the camps as hostages. Each month 5 percent of inmates in the camps died.\n\nThe Bolsheviks gradually quelled the uprising in the course of 1921. Antonov was killed in 1922 during an attempt to arrest him. Sennikov estimated the total losses among the population of Tambov region in 1920 to 1922 resulting from the war, executions, and imprisonment in concentration camps as approximately 140,000.\n\nSome documents relating to the rebellion were found by the local ethnographer Boris Sennikov in 1982 while he was engaged in clearing sand from the altar of the Winter Church of the Kazan monastery. During the 1920s, the monastery had been requisitioned for use as the local Cheka headquarters and the church had served as the archive of the Tambov Military Commissariat.\n\nIn 1933, the local government decided to burn documents that could compromise the Soviet regime. However, during the process, the fire grew out of control and had to be extinguished by water and, crucially, sand. All documents in the archive were believed to be destroyed; as the church altar was not used by the archive, the surviving documents, covered by a layer of sand, had never been found. In 1982, the local archive changed its address and the church became abandoned. When Sennikov found the documents, the Tambov department of KGB opened a criminal case against him. Later, the case was closed, but Sennikov lost his job.\n\nIn 2004, the publishing house \"Posev\" published the Sennikov archive as part of \"The Tambov Rebellion and the Liquidation of Russian Peasantry\" along with documents relating to the Governorate Military Commissariat (including those dealing with Konstantin Mamontov's 1919 anti-Bolshevik raid, and those describing the Great Purge of the 1930s). The documents also included Red Army orders issued during the rebellion, correspondence, reports of the use of chemical weapons against the peasant rebels, and documents of the Union of the Working Peasants.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52899784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52899784", "title": "Tetrahydrofurfuryl acetate", "text": "Tetrahydrofurfuryl acetate\n\nTetrahydrofurfuryl acetate is an organic chemical compound used for food flavouring and cosmetics. It has a fruity ethereal flavour, also described as honey, maple, or bread-like.\n\nIt is generally accepted as safe in the USA. Typical levels of use are 2 ppm in drinks, 8 ppm in icecream, and 20 ppm in baked products and confectionery.\n\nChemically, it is a heterocyclic ester. It is made by reacting tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol with acetic anhydride.\n\nRelated flavouring compounds are tetrahydrofurfuryl butyrate, tetrahydrofurfuryl cinnamate, tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol, and tetrahydrofurfuryl propionate.\n"}
{"id": "34749467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34749467", "title": "The Water War", "text": "The Water War\n\nThe Water War is a documentary movie about the Water conflict in Mozambique. It is directed by Licínio Azevedo.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24818308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24818308", "title": "USSR anti-religious campaign (1921–1928)", "text": "USSR anti-religious campaign (1921–1928)\n\nThe USSR anti-religious campaign (1921–1928) was a campaign of anti-religious persecution against churches and believers by the Soviet government following the initial anti-religious campaign during the Russian Civil War. The elimination of most religion and its replacement with deism, agnosticism and atheism supported with a materialist world view was a fundamental ideological goal of the state. To this end the state conducted anti-religious persecutions against believers that were meant to hurt and destroy religion. It was never made illegal to be a believer or to have religion, and so the activities of this campaign were often veiled under other pretexts (usually resistance to the regime) that the state invoked or invented in order to justify its activities.\n\nThe persecution entered a new phase in 1921 with the resolutions adopted by the tenth CPSU (Communist Party of the Soviet Union) congress, and would set the atmosphere for the remainder of the decade's persecutions, which would enter another new phase in 1929 when new legislation was passed on prohibition of public religious activities.\n\nThe 10th party congress launched Lenin's \"New Economic Policy\" (NEP), in response to the poor state of the Russian economy that resulted from World War I, the Russian Civil War, and the War Communist system used during the latter. The state faced large scale popular revolts of workers, which Trotsky believed threatened the survival of the state. The NEP brought in some measure of limited free enterprise, and was meant to compromise with the general population as well as to present the new regime in a more respectable light to the world community and thus acquire a place in the world market. To acquire a better reputation, the regime considered it detrimental to continue with the civil war policy of murdering religious believers without trials or plausible accusations.\n\nTherefore, the anti-religious campaign needed to be conducted under more respectable pretexts. However, the elimination of religion remained a fundamental ideological goal of the state.\n\nThere were two main principal anti-religious campaigns that occurred in the 1920s, with one surrounding the campaign to seize church valuables and the other surrounding the renovationist schism in the Orthodox Church.\n\nThis portion of the state's religious campaign came to an end in 1929, when Stalin began the implementation of a much harsher campaign that would take place in the following decade.\n\nThe tenth party congress met in early 1921 and issued the resolution \"On Glavpolitprosvet (Central Committee of the Republic for Political Education) and the Agitation: Propaganda Problems of the Party\". This resolution called for \"widescale organization, leadership, and cooperation in the task of anti-religious agitation and propaganda among the broad masses of the workers, using the mass media, films, books, lectures, and other devices.\n\nIn August of that year, a plenary meeting of the Party Central Committee adopted an 11-point instruction on the interpretation and application of article 13 (mentioned above). The instruction made a differentiation between educated believers and uneducated believers, and it forbade party membership to any religious believer who was a member of the clergy or who had an education, but uneducated believers were allowed party membership on an individual basis if they prove their devotion to Communism. It was decreed that such members, however, should be submitted to 'special re-education work' in order to make them atheists. The instruction warned against rash actions in anti-religious propaganda, against giving too much publicity to 'anti-religious agitation' and it stressed 'serious scientific cultural-enlightenment work, building up natural-scientific foundation for a proper historical analysis of the question of religion'. This meant that the anti-religious campaign was to be directed at building up a non-religious culture and educational system, rather than subjecting religion to ridicule and attack. It directed the Central Committee Agitation Department, \"Revolution and the Church\" and Glavpolitprosvet to conform to this. The instruction also emphasized that the state was fighting against all forms of religious belief and not simply individual religions (like the Orthodox church).\n\nIt was after the 10th congress that the authorities began to take measures against the public debates, which were eventually formally suspended in 1929 and replaced with public lectures by atheists. The reason given for their cessation was that they did not satisfy public demand and that people preferred to solidify their atheism with study. Martsinkovsky was arrested and sent to exile in 1922 on account of his religious preaching that attracted people to religion and told he could return in a few years once the workers had become wiser (he was in fact never allowed to return).\n\nDespite the part of the August 1921 instruction about combating all religions, the state took a particular hardline against the Orthodox church on the pretext that it was a legacy of the Tsarist past (this difference in practice and policy may also have reflected internal disagreement among the party leadership, particularly between Stalin and Trotsky). This may also have been a pragmatic consideration in the belief that the state was not yet strong enough in order to broaden its anti-religious activities beyond the Orthodox church.\n\nWhen church leaders demanded freedom of religion under the constitution, the Communists responded with terror. They murdered the metropolitan of Kiev and executed twenty-eight bishops and 6,775 priests. Despite mass demonstrations in support of the church, repression cowed most ecclesiastical leaders into submission.\n\nTikhon produced an encyclical on political neutrality and disengagement of the Church from worldly politics, and the official propaganda depicted it as a form of camouflage to hide his real aim of support for autocratic bourgeois-aristocracy. Tikhon emphasized the freedom of the Church in the separation of Church and State and the duty of believers to be loyal to the state in civic matters, in as much as this did not contradict a Christian's primary loyalty to God. He produced three declarations of loyalty to the Soviet state, in 1919, 1923 and in his last testament in 1925.\n\nBeginning in March 1922, the Soviet Press published libellous accounts of the behaviour of clergy and believers. This was followed up with arrests and trials of the people attacked.\n\nBelievers could also be arrested in association with claiming or honouring miracles. Miracles needed to be suppressed in the eyes of the state due to their contradiction of the atheism of the official state ideology. However, it was not yet legal to prosecute people simply for making such claims (it would become so in 1929), so the miracle claims were prosecuted instead under the pretext that they were acts of resistance meant to strengthen believers in their resistance to hold on to church valuables. In Tula, the local bishop Yuvenalii was sentenced to ten years imprisonment after the local populace claimed a miracle to have occurred; several others were imprisoned along with him. The campaign to disprove miracles (in which saints' relics were sometimes exposed and confiscated) met considerable resistance from believers as well as many clashes and arrests.\n\nFaith had to be turned into a private affair and made as invisible as possible. The regime could not tolerate dynamic faith or popular religious leaders who could inspire and lead millions of people.\n\nTo this effect, Lenin's doctrine that the state should be much more tolerant towards amoral or even criminal priests rather than those of good moral standing, was interpreted such that popular clergymen were removed, imprisoned or killed wherever it was deemed feasible. Charges would often be invented against such popular clergy in order to justify their arrest, imprisonment or execution. This method was especially harsh in rural areas away from foreign observers where a systematic campaign liquidated the most popular monks and shut down the most authoritative monasteries. Through this, the famous Optina monastery was shut down in 1922 and turned into a state museum, and one of the elders was arrested. All seven local churches were shut down as well by 1929 (leaving the local religious population with no building to worship in). The museum would later be closed in 1928 and by 1930 the monks who had served in it were mostly either in hiding or had been sent to concentration camps.\n\nSecret Monasticism began to develop in the 1920s in response to the state persecution. This practice involved either people who lived 'in the world' who undertook monastic vows secretly and lived a double-life with other secret monks or nuns, or it involved communities of monastics who lived in secret and isolated from society. When such communities were discovered, the monastics could sometimes be immediately executed. Future church leaders were in these communities and they may have been instrumental in preserving monasticism in the USSR.\n\nTikhon died in 1925. He was replaced in 1927 by Metropolitan Sergii who gave unqualified loyalty to the state. The Church, however, continued to teach that Orthodoxy was incompatible with Marxism. This was contrasted by many other religious groups in the country that tried to re-affirm how they were compatible with the state ideology when they were put under attack.\n\nThe Patriarchal church lost its ability to train new clergy in 1928 after its advanced theological studies in Leningrad \"voluntarily closed\".\n\nThe Volga basin is subject to periodic droughts that can sometimes last for several years. The last famine that had been produced by this occurred in 1891, and after that experience the Tsarist government had built up special stockpiles of grain in preparation for a future famine. All of these stockpiles had been taken and used by armed factions in the Civil War, however, and new droughts in the Volga in 1920-1922 resulted in a massive famine.\n\nPatriarch Tikhon made an appeal to the world community and religious leaders outside of Russia for aid. The Church formed a Famine Relief Committee, but this was shut down by the government only a few months after it had been created, and that they hand over all the money they had collected.\n\nLenin ordered that all of the precious metals, precious stones and valuable material that could be found in religious buildings throughout the country should be confiscated and sold in order to create funds to help relieve the famine. The Patriarch appealed to the parishes on February 19, 1922 to surrender all such objects of value with the exception of the vessels used for the Holy Eucharist. On February 28, the government issued another order to all state agents to confiscate all sacred vessels including those used in the sacraments. On the same day, the Patriarch issued an encyclical asking believers to be very generous in their donations so as to pay off the cost of the vessels used in the Eucharist, but not to give up the vessels themselves.\n\nLenin jumped at the opportunity and used it as a pretext to attack the church. They refused to accept the Patriarch's compromise of offering the monetary value of the vessels and instead insisted that the vessels be handed over. Lenin also refused the Patriarch's request that Church representatives be included in the government commissions inspecting, confiscating and accounting for the confiscated valuables.\n\nThe Patriarch distrusted the government's intentions, and maintained his order not to hand over the vessels. The state went ahead and sent armed requisitioning teams around the country to collect the valuables, and they provoked much resistance.\n\nThe sixth sector of the OGPU, led by Yevgeny Tuchkov, began aggressively arresting and executing bishops, priests, and devout worshipers, such as Metropolitan Veniamin in Petrograd in 1922 for refusing to accede to the demand to hand in church valuables (including sacred relics). Archbishop Andronik of Perm, who worked as a missionary in Japan, was shot after being forced to his own grave. Bishop Germogen of Tobolsk, who voluntarily accompanied the Tsar into exile, was strapped to the paddlewheel of a streamboat and mangled by the rotating blades.\n\nBy mid-1922 there had been 1414 violent clashes between the faithful and the armed detachments, as well as 55 trials and 231 group cases. Tikhon appeared as a witness to the trial of 54 clergy and he took personally responsibility for their actions upon himself. Twelve of the fifty-four were executed and 27 received prison sentences. At least 35 Orthodox were legally sentenced to death in connection with this campaign (although some sentences were commuted).\n\nOne of the bloodiest of the clashes occurred in an old-textile industrial town called Shuia, near Moscow. On March 15, 1922 a group of mounted police arrived at the church square to requisition the valuables and a large crowd of believers had gathered there as well. The Soviet press reported that the mounted police were greeted with threatening shouts and hurling of rocks or other articles, while someone rang an alarm bell that brought huge masses of people to the square.\n\nA half company of infantry was then brought supported by two armoured cars with mounted machine guns. The Soviet press reported that believers fired the first shots with pistols at the soldiers who then returned fire on the crowd.\n\nAfter the event Lenin wrote that their enemies had foolishly afforded them a great opportunity by this action, since he believed that the peasant masses would not support the church's hold on its valuables in light of the famine and that the resistance that the church offered could be met with bloody retaliation against the clergy without inciting popular sympathy for them. He wrote, \n\nAt the party congress arrange a secret meeting of all or almost all delegates to discuss this matter jointly with the chief workers of the GPU, the People's Commissariat of Justice [NKIu], and the Revolutionary Tribunal. At this meeting pass a secret resolution of the congress that the removal of property of value, especially from the very richest lauras, monasteries, and churches, must be carried out with ruthless resolution, leaving nothing in doubt, and in the very shortest time. The greater the number of representatives of the reactionary clergy and the reactionary bourgeoisie that we succeed in shooting on this occasion, the better because this \"audience\" must precisely now be taught a lesson in such a way that they will not dare to think about any resistance whatsoever for several decades.\n\nIn this same letter, which was secret at the time but now published, Lenin explained that the campaign to seize church valuables was meant not for primarily philanthropic reasons but rather as a means of provoking the church into a situation wherein it could be greatly attacked with little reprisal and depicted as a heartless organization that would not give up its gold to feed the starving poor. This fact may have also explained his shutting down of the Church's famine relief efforts and his refusal to accept the compromise. It also likely affected the misrepresentation of the Church's position in the Soviet press wherein it was not acknowledged that the Patriarch had offered to arrange to pay for the valuables and the Church hierarchy was presented as careless about the catastrophe.\n\nSeveral trials and executions of clergy followed the Shuia incident.\n\nThe campaign was not directed at only the Orthodox church but it also seized valuables present in religious buildings of other religions. Trials were conducted of Roman Catholics and Jews who resisted the seizure, but they generally received much milder sentences than the Orthodox.\n\nThe valuables collected proved to be of pitiful value on the world market, (it was even discovered that the Russian nobility had for centuries been donating fake precious stones), but Lenin's propaganda effect was still achieved.\n\nWith the conclusion of the campaign of seizing church valuables, the terror campaign against the church was called off for a while. In May 1923, the Antireligious Commission of the CPSU Central Committee ordered the GPU (the State Political Directorate) 'to investigate all closures of churches. Should these have taken place with abuse of the Soviet legislation on the cults, the guilty ones ought to be made responsible for their acts.' The commission addressed a letter to the Central Committee suggesting immediate discontinuation of the closure of churches, and the publication of an article in Pravda condemning such acts. The Central Committee followed with an internal letter to all party organizations on June 23, calling for a halt to all such abuses which 'cause all sorts of dissatisfaction, made use of by anti-Soviet elements.' The physical attack was called off, but the propaganda war continued.\n\nThe Soviet press after the campaign accused the clergy and laity of hiding or stealing church valuables. Even more arrests and imprisonments followed these accusations. This, however, was cut short by the failure of the state to conceal the embarrassing massive black-market operations by Soviet officials who were caught stealing and selling the valuables for themselves. This news resulted in rioting by believers.\n\nIn total, it is estimated that 8,100 clergy, monks and nuns were murdered in connection the church-valuables campaign. Another 165 priests were executed after 1923.\n\nIn attacking the Orthodox church, the state supported a schism in the Orthodox church called the 'Renovationist' sect or the 'Living Church', led by Fr. Alexander Vvendenskij, by giving it legal recognition in 1922 and continuing to terrorize the old Orthodox as well as deprive it of legal means of existence. They attempted to make Orthodox Christianity compatible with Marxism and were fully loyal to the state.\n\nThe state initially recognized only the schismatic group as the legitimate Orthodox church and it subsequently persecuted those who refused to recognize the schism.\n\nTrotsky wanted Patriarch Tikhon to be killed after the excommunication in 1918, but Lenin forbade it. Lenin also insisted not to touch the Patriarch during the Shuia incident for fear it would produce another Germogen (a Patriarch who was killed by the Poles when they occupied Moscow in 1612). The Patriarch was arrested in May 1922, and his chancery was taken over by the Renovationists. Trotsky would continue to attack the Patriarch until he was released from prison in 1923 and made his declaration of loyalty.\n\nThe state arrested, exiled and even shot clergy who continued to declare their loyalty to Patriarch Tikhon after his arrest, and resisted the takeover by the Renovationists. The state issued propaganda that claimed the opposition to the takeover was the result of 'bourgeois and black-hundrist elements'.\n\nMetropolitan Veniamin (Kazansky) of Petrograd was one of the most prominent victims of this. He was very popular and had come from a lower-class background, which hurt Soviet propaganda that the church hierarchy was filled with representatives of the upper classes during the time of the Tsar. His great popularity may have made him a target by the regime.\n\nThe Petrograd section of the State Famine Relief Commission initially agreed to a plan proposed by Metropolitan Veniamin to hand over the valuables, and to include representatives of the Church in the confiscations. The Petrograd section may not have been initially informed by Lenin of the real aim of the campaign, because shortly after this agreement was published in the newspapers in approving terms, the Petrograd section then cancelled the agreement and stated that the clergy could not participate in the commission. The Metropolitan agreed to hand over the valuables and pay for the precious objects used in the sacraments through a special collection, and the Petrograd section agreed to this.\n\nThe peace was short-lived, however, because the Metropolitan protested the takeover of the church by the Renovationists and excommunicated its leaders (the priests Vvedensky, Belkov and Krasnitsky). The Soviet press responded with attacking Veniamin's character and he was presented with an ultimatum by the government in that he could either remove the excommunication or he and those close to him would pay with their lives. (It should be noted that the fact that the USSR had a separation of church and state did not mean in practice that the state could not punish believers who did not recognize church authorities when these authorities were working for the state.) The Metropolitan would not change, and so he was arrested shortly after.\n\nHe was defended by a Jew name Gurovich and the trial was conducted in a court room that was packed with thousands of people. Gurovich conducted an excellent defence; he cleverly mentioned how Krasnitsky had been publishing militantly anti-bolshevik articles up until November 1917 and as a Jew he defended the record of the Russian clergy in a pre-revolutionary incident where there had been an allegation of Jewish ritual murder. When no evidence could be found for the charges against him about belonging to a counter-revolutionary conspiracy, the Petrograd Cheka chief PA Krasikov famously stated:\n\nAre you inquiring about the real existence of criminal conspiracy? Look here it is! Right in front of you! This organization is the Orthodox Church itself!\n\nIn his final plea to the court, Veniamin declared his loyalty to the state and recalled the words of St Paul 'if you suffer because you are a Christian, don't be ashamed of it but thank God'. At the conclusion of the trial, ten persons, including the Metropolitan were condemned to death, and fifty-nine others received prison sentences. Veniamin was executed by firing squad on August 12.\n\nIn 1925 there were at least 65 bishops in prison or exile (not counting those who had been detained for short periods and then released). Some bishops returned from exile in 1925 while an additional twenty bishops were arrested in the same year including Metropolitan Peter (Poliansky) who became temporary Patriarch after Tikhon's death in April 1925. The regime continued to arrest clergy who did not accept the Renovationists. Peter's replacement as temporary Patriarch after his arrest was Metropolitan Sergii. Sergii and twelve bishops, including Archbishop Illarion (Troitsky) of Krutitsy were arrested in 1926. The intransigence of some of the bishops would cause them to remain and eventually die in exile; Metropolitan Peter died in the Arctic in 1937 and Illarion died in a prison transit hospital in Leningrad in 1929.\n\nIn 1926-1927 the bishops secretly undertook the election of a new patriarch by means of a ballot that was done through correspondence carried by trusted messengers going from one bishop to another. The state discovered this ballot through the arrest and execution of two of the messengers, and arrested many of the bishops who were participating as well as another messenger. The number of arrested bishops rose to 150 by mid-1927 as a result of this.\n\nSergii was released in 1927 and became the new Patriarch after he signed a declaration of loyalty to the state. The state wanted the Patriarchal church to bend ever lower in its declaration of loyalty than Tikhon had. The new declaration of loyalty not only promised loyalty to the government, but claimed that the Soviets had never mistreated the Church and thanked the government for the care that had been shown to believers. This declaration may at first not have been widely known, because arrests continued briefly.\n\nOnce it had been widely published, another schism developed in the Church by many conservative church movements that refused to accept this new declaration. At least 37 bishops broke with Sergii over this issue. The group that broke with the new Patriarch were not deeply opposed to Sergii's civic loyalty to the state, but they could not accept the declaration he signed that stated that there had never been any religious persecutions, for they saw this as a betrayal of the martyrs.\n\nThe clergy who had been arrested for originally declaring their loyalty to Sergii before 1927 remained in prison, while clergy who refused to accept his authority after 1927 began to be arrested by the state. This declaration had ended the persecution of the Orthodox church surrounding the Renovationist issue.\n\nThe Renovationists failed to attract the laity, who largely remained with the Patriarchal church and produced a firestorm of opposition to their temporary takeover of the Russian Orthodox church. For this reason the state lost interest in the Renovationists as a tool to hurt Orthodoxy. The Renovationists lost control of a third to one half of their churches by the end of 1924. The authorities changed direction and pushed for reunification in 1924-1927 in the belief that the Renovationists who were loyal to the state could be used as agents, activists and informers within the Patriarchal Orthodox church.\n\nAnti-religious propaganda played a critical role in the persecutions, because they were used to develop attitudes of hostility against believers which could then lead to justifying their mistreatment.\n\nA number of specialized anti-religious journals began circulation in 1922. \"Nauka i religiia\" (Science and Religion), edited by former priest Mikhail Galkin (literary pseudonym: Gorev) began in December 1922, and was soon replaced by the weekly \"Bezhbozhnik\" (The Godless) edited by Yemelyan Yaroslavsky. Yaroslavsky would form a society of friends of The Godless newspaper, which a few years later would become the Society of the Godless and eventually (1929) it would become the infamous League of the Militant Godless.\n\nIn 1922, the 11th party congress turned the publishing house \"Glavpolitprosvet, Krasnaia nov\" and the journal by the same name into a special party publishing enterprise for Marxist and anti-religious literature. The 12th (1923) and 13th (1924) party congresses called for 'moderation'. The 12th party congress called for the expansion of anti-religious propaganda and warned against insulting religious feelings by 'primitive methods' and of ridiculing the objects and ceremonies of faith; claiming that these methods strengthen 'religious fanaticism'. Instead it called for more publication of anti-religious literature of a popular scientific nature, and more analysis of the history of religion. The call for moderation was ignored by the above-mentioned anti-religious journals.\n\nThe propaganda viciously attacked the Orthodox church and especially its clergy as being the scum of the nation. It was claimed in the official press that none of the seminarians believed in their religion's teachings but that these teachings were simply tools to exploit the masses. The early anti-church propaganda produced by the Soviet state claimed that the state was only opposed to the leadership of the Orthodox church, and not religion in general or the Orthodox church as a body. To this effect the press commended acts of disobedience by parishes against the Patriarch; in 1920 there was one parish that was commended for refusing to accept priests that were sent by the church hierarchy and which opted instead to elect a former psalmist as their priest.\n\nThe Patriarch was attacked in the press, especially during the campaign to seize church valuables, as having sold their teacher Jesus to the tsar and capitalists by withholding church valuables from the famine stricken. The church hierarchy was presented in the official press as indifferent to the suffering of the famine and happy about the economic catastrophe, as a means that could contribute towards overthrowing the Soviets and returning the monarchy.\n\nDespite the line carried in the official press, Lenin and his party were always concerned from the beginning with trying to eliminate all religion in the country and this played a part towards that end.\n\nAnti-religious propaganda of the time also blamed Christianity, and especially the Orthodox Church, for fomenting anti-semitism. Contradictorily, the anti-religious propaganda also depicted Jews in an anti-semitic light as capitalist businessmen in accordance with Marx's writing .\n\nThe anti-religious press continuously produced primitive blasphemies of God, Christ and the Saints in their pages designed to insult the religious feelings of believers. Religion was equated with immorality, drunkenness and money-grabbing. Religion was blamed for failing to differentiate between the working classes and capitalists.\n\nThe anti-religious propaganda rarely showed differentiation in methodology despite the debate that went on between different members of the Soviet hierarchy.\n\nEven 'sophisticated' theoretical and methodological journals often published direct hate propaganda against religious believers.\n\nIn 1924 the sophisticated 'Society of Militant Materialists' (renamed in 1928 'Militant Dialectical Materialists') was founded, and it consisted predominately (exclusively after 1928) of marxist philosophers grouped around \"Under the Banner of Marxism\", which aimed at combatting religious and 'idealistic' views among scientists, scholars and intellectuals in general.\n\nAs the years progressed, it became increasingly clear that the old Marxist assumption that religion would die away quickly and easily was highly mistaken as resistance to the anti-religious policies was found across the country. In 1924, Trotsky, who originally had thought that the Russian masses were only superficially religious, warned that the struggle against religion would be a long and arduous battle and he spoke of religion as a cultural phenomena to be attacked on all fronts with every means except the forced closure of churches.\n\nTrotsky considered printed anti-religious material to be of little use in a largely illiterate nation and he emphasized the potential of the cinema in being able to replace the religiosity of the peasantry (which he thought was only a matter of habit in absence of other entertainment).\n\nDifferent parts of the Soviet leadership disagreed with each other on how best to combat religion, with positions ranging from the 'rightist' belief that religion would die on its own naturally with increasing education, and the 'leftist' belief that religion needed to be attacked strongly. The Marxist notion that human beliefs were determined by material conditions had been used to support the 'rightist' argument that religion would go away on its own once the state developed, and that rather than teaching people atheism and giving anti-religious propaganda, people should instead be taught natural sciences and they would then lose their religion. The old Marxist theory was pragmatically questioned as it became apparent that religion was not going away, and more active means were thought necessary.\n\nThe debate was not about whether or not religion was evil, but was rather about what tactics to use to combat it. The deputy editor of Bezhbozhnik Anton Loginov explained:\n\nit's common knowledge that religion is opium... poison, stupor, moonshine, and yet we are not supposed to insult believers' feelings. Why should we say one thing and do another?... Not every stab at religion serves the aim of struggle against it… every \"persecution of that faith\" builds up religious fanaticism.\n\nTo this effect, anti-religious activities that were too insulting to religious feelings could be questioned and criticized in the belief that they would harden religious convictions.\n\nLenin's statement 'On the Significance of Militant Materialism', was worded in such a fashion that both sides of the debate would use it to support their arguments. Lenin's statement called for a close-cooperation of all militant materialists (atheists), both communists and non-communists, including the 18th century French materialists, and it also stressed the role of the official Marxist philosophical monthly journal \"Under the Banner of Marxism (Pod znamenem marxizma)\" to tirelessly disseminate 'atheistic propaganda and struggle', which he called 'the cause of our state' (nasha gosudartsvennaia rabota) \n\nAn important part of this debate occurred between Emelian Yaroslavsky (founder of the Society of the Godless) and the Moscow Society of the Godless. Yaroslavsky's position that the whole nation needed to be mobilized for an attack on all religions, but one which was pragmatically organized and moderated to be effective, would eventually carry official favour and become the officially adopted position for the anti-religious campaign that would occur after 1929.\n\nA unified consolidated position on the religious question nevertheless took shape in these years.\n\nThe school question proved troublesome initially for Soviet policies. They had outlawed religious instruction for schoolchildren or youth. In 1925 the delegates of the first congress of Soviet schoolteachers refused to endorse the principle of separation of church and state, and sought to retain religious teaching in school.The majority of school-teachers (as well as much of the Russian population) were reportedly still religious believers in the 1920s. Anatoly Lunacharsky, the Commisar of Enlightenment, was forced to accept that the school system would have non-religious rather than anti-religious education, due to the shortage of atheist teachers and the fear that such a system would provoke a hostile reaction by the religious masses. Anti-religious education was still seen as an important goal, and beginning in 1925 anti-religious education was introduced to secondary schools, mainly through classes on culture, in addition to setting up branches of the League of the Godless in schools.\n\nTeachers who were believers were forced to conceal their faith and to abstain from visiting churches in order to keep their jobs.\n\nIn 1927 the state officially recognized both churches and there were signs that the government saw the renovationists as a threat to their regime. The renovationists began to be attacked in the official press as a cunning group that were trying to be friends with the state in order to increase religion.\n\nThe press also attacked Jewish and Muslim reformism at the same time. Reformism in religion and cooperation with the state began to be seen as even more dangerous to the system than the traditional religions because they were able to make religion appear less dangerous than it was.\n\nThe attack on the Orthodox became more generally an attack against all religions around 1927. Sects that had originally been praised in the official press for their loyalty and hard-work, despite their religious convictions that were problematic to implementing Communism, began to be demonized in the late 1920s. Even when these other religions tried to reaffirm their compatibility with Marxism and their loyalty to the state, but this was rejected in the official propaganda that increasingly depicted all religious activity as harmful and in contradiction with Communism.\n\nThe non-hierarchical nature of some of these sects made them appear even more dangerous to the state, since they could not be as easily controlled as the Orthodox Church that worked according to a strict hierarchy. Finnish Protestants began to be attacked in 1927. Mennonite communities left the USSR in large numbers as a result of the hostility against them; 13000 fled in 1928. The Dukhobors had been relatively untouched by direct anti-religious up until 1927. Adventists had originally been very hostile to the new regime until 1924 when their leadership declared loyalty to the communist state \n\nThe change in policy may have reflected both a growing confidence in the state's capacity to persecute religion such that it now felt safe it broadening the campaign, and it may also have been a result of growing influence of the Society of the Godless (founded in 1925).\n\nThe need to attack some of these sects may also have been produced from a need to justify the liquidation of the religious farm communes, and the fact that some of these communities were filling the void left by the Orthodox church after it was attacked and many parishes were closed.\n\nThe Soviets initially supported a Ukrainian nationalistic church movement called the Autocephalists (also known as Lypkivskyites), which broke with Tikhon under the leadership of Metropolitan Lypinski. The Soviets supported this split for the same reasons that they supported the Renovationists in that they wanted to weaken the Patriarchal Church.\n\nBeginning as early as 1919 Ukrainian clergy that remained faithful to Tikhon suffered mass reprisals. Autocephalist complicity may have contributed to the killing of Patriarchal Metropolitan Vladimir in Kiev in 1918.\n\nThe Autocephalists encountered the same problem as the Renovationists in that they failed to attract the Ukrainian laity. As a result, the Soviets lost interest in them, and began persecuting them in 1924. This persecution became especially harsh in the latter part of the decade once the state began to take manoeuvres to destroy local nationalist movements. The leader of the Autocephalists was imprisoned in 1926, and the church was forced to declare its self-liquidation in 1930. Almost all of its bishops, and most clerical and lay activists, were incarcerated and many were also executed.\n\nLenin in his earlier writings had professed a desire to eliminate Islam, while recognizing the importance of using Muslim support for their cause.\n\nAfter the revolution, Lenin had promised national autonomy and religious freedom for Muslims. Muslim reformists had emphasized women's role in the mosque. Sultan Galiev had claimed that Islam had stronger 'civic-political motives' than other faiths and should be treated more cautiously by the communists as well as that there should be very limited propaganda against them with no direct attacks.\n\nMuslims had their own People's Commisariat for Muslim Affairs established in 1918 under the administration of mullah Nur-Vakhitov (the only clerical person to ever occupy a state office in Soviet History). Both Muslims and Protestants enjoyed relative toleration until 1928–1929 and were allowed activities banned to the Orthodox church (including publications, seminaries, youth work, etc.) The Soviets offered the Muslims free public education on a massive scale, which had not been available under the tsars. Through this the region of Central Asia, which had formerly been one of the least educated areas of the Russian empire, would become comparable to the rest of the country. The underdeveloped region was also industrialized at an impressive rate.\n\nThe Baku Muslim clergy in 1923 praised the Soviet regime for having saved Persia and Turkey from 'predatory England'.\n\nSultan Galiev was the leader of a group of Central Asian Marxists that attempted to reform Islam to make it more modern as well as to support atheism in the Central Asian states. He was allied with Lenin, who used him as an intermediary between the government and the peoples of Central Asia. Galiev had controversial ideas within the communist party about creating an autonomous communist state in the Muslim areas of Central Asia that would be called Turkestan. The party reacted against this idea of a unified and autonomous Muslim state by choosing to divide Central Asia into different republics (Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan) in 1924. Many militant Muslims who had originally sided with the Bolsheviks were upset by this turn of events.\n\nBy the mid-1920s Islamic courts became irrelevant to criminal or civil suits, and they were replaced by Soviet courts. Islamic courts were rapidly eliminated and Islamic studies were removed from education, along with other religious teaching throughout the country. About 8000 Islamic schools existed in Central Asia prior to the revolution, and by 1928 all of them had been shut down. The language and alphabet reforms also cut off the people of Central Asia from Arabic literature.\n\nGaliev's ideas would be attacked in the late 1920s and the anti-religious campaign would reject any policy of special treatment for Islam, and would attack it alongside the other religions.\n\nThe Komsomol and later LMG would try to implement the 10th congress resolution by various attacks, parades, theatrical performances, journals, brochures and films. The Komsomol would hold crude blasphemous 'Komsomol Christmases' and 'Komsomol Easters' headed by hooligans dressed as orthodox clergy. The processions would include the burning of icons, religious books, mock images of Christ, the Virgin, etc.\n\nFor example, in one Christmas play on December 25, 1923 in the city of Gomel, the Komsomol actors presented a performance of a mock trial of deities in a city theatre; the defendants were stuffed scarecrows representing the deities of different religions as well as their clergy. The judges were proletarian Komsomol, and they handed down the verdict that all deities and clergy must be burned at the stake. The whole mass then poured out into the streets with torches and scarecrows in their hands saying 'Away with the churches, away with the synagogues!\" The effigies were then publicly burned in the city square.\n\nThey often organized their parades at the same time as celebration of religious holidays such as Christmas and Easter, and they placed them right outside churches that were holding services. This often prevented traditional Orthodox processions to occur at the same time. Appeals were made to bakeries not to bake traditional foods for these feast-days.\n\nThe propaganda campaign, however, was a failure and many people remained with their religious convictions. The church held its own public events with some success, and well competed with the anti-religious propaganda during these years. In the few instances that numbers were reported, it was stated that more people attended churches then had come to participate in the anti-religious parades. These tactics of the Komsomol were discarded in the mid-1920s, as being too crude and offensive to believers' feelings, but they were later revived in the late 1920s and early 1930s. They were replaced in the mid-1920s by meetings behind closed doors accompanies by anti-religious lectures, poetry readings as well as articles in atheistic journals.\n\nSpecial conferences on anti-religious propaganda under the auspices of the Central Committee Agitation-Propaganda Department, worked out directives that were implemented on either the local party level or through a public institution from 1926 onwards.\n\nA huge volume of anti-religious articles in Pravda and Komsomol'skaia Pravda were published between 1928-1929.\n\nThe British government issued strong verbal chastisements of the Soviet Union for this campaign, which the Soviets responded to by uncompromisingly defensive reactions that narrowed the scope of diplomatic efforts.\n\nThe Vatican at first sought to use the newly re-created Poland's position to promote Catholic interests in Russia, but following the war between the Bolsheviks and Poland, the Vatican turned to Weimar Germany, which played crucial role in diplomatic efforts with regard to Christians in the USSR.\n\nIn 1922 at the Conference of Genoa, wherein the Soviet Union's relations with the foreign community of nations was negotiated, the Vatican demanded that Russia grant complete freedom of conscience to its citizens. The Soviet government instead pursued a policy of demanding the Vatican to grant it recognition without a concordat or any conditions, and held out the prospect that doing so could result in priests being released from prison.\n\nThe Vatican raised a massive aid campaign for famine relief in Russia, and the Soviet government permitted the Vatican to send its help, under the condition that it did not engage in any proselytization in Russia and that the priests who would come would be dressed and made to appear as though they were secular relief workers. The Vatican's mission went ahead and delivered food as well as medicine to the Russian population. The American government gave material support to the Vatican's mission.\n\nThis mission was cancelled by the Soviet government in 1924 after a breakdown in relations caused by ridiculous Soviet demands on the Vatican, and sharp conflicts arising between the Catholics and the militant atheists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31526658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31526658", "title": "Vidsich", "text": "Vidsich\n\nThe Civic movement «Vidsich» (, \"Rebuff\") is an active Ukrainian nonviolent social movement created in 2010 as a reaction to the policies of then President of Ukraine Victor Yanukovich and his \"pro-Russian\" tendencies connected with his administration. \"Vidsich\" focuses on a proactive defense of human rights, civil liberties and constitutional freedoms.\n\n\"Vidsich\" unites activists who are convinced that people cannot be neutral with regard to the political and social situation in Ukraine. \"Vidsich\"'s aim is in creating a strong national movement which can protect the interests of Ukrainians and Ukraine in general.\n\nAfter Victor Yanukovich won the 2010 presidential elections, opposition-supporting citizens, including many who had previously taken part in protests and campaigns, decided to gather and discuss the likely changes to the social and political situation in Ukraine in light of the handover of power.\n\nThis conference took place in Kiev on February 20, 2010. This date is considered to be the Vidsich founding date as the conference led to decisions in favour of further self-organization and activity, with participants sketching out the principles and directions for the future of the nascent movement. In attendance were participants of previous opposition movements (\"Granite revolution\", \"Ukraine without Kuchma\" movement, civic committee \"Za pravdu!\" (\"For truth\"), civic campaigns \"Pora!\" (\"It's time\"), etc.), and other opposition-supporting members of Ukrainian society.\n\n\nFrom the March 2010, civic movement «Vidsich» took part in hundreds of events (mostly street actions, warning strikes, sit down strikes, public hearings, round tables) in many cities of Ukraine, made either by ourselves, either in cooperation with other organizations.\n\nSuch as follows:\n\n\nAlso, CM «Vidsich» was an organizer or a participant in actions: of solidarity actions with Gorky park defenders; against Black Sea fleet of Russian Federation being on Ukraine's territory; for defending Ukrainian translations of the foreign movies; against persecution of historians and history rewriting; for promotions of state symbols; «Easter together» (students of the south and east of Ukraine staying in the families of their age-mates in the city of Lviv); Against museum throw-away from Lavra; «Ukrainian broadcast - on air!»; against the Mazepa street renaming; in memory of 66 anniversary of the Crimean Tatars deportation; «Ruined Khreshchatyk - we remember!»; «Doughnuts for Donetsk region people» (); collection of signatures for restoration of traffic of some suburban trains, and actions against the made-up ticket deficit in cash desks of Ukrzaliznytsya (Ukrainian railroads); students «arms» demonstration; creative action of protest against «tour» bill #8757 and other activities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19909998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19909998", "title": "Water Use It Wisely", "text": "Water Use It Wisely\n\nWater – Use It Wisely is a water conservation campaign originally launched on behalf of metropolitan Phoenix, Mesa, Scottsdale and the Arizona Department of Water Resources. The campaign provides states, cities and citizens with simple tips and tricks to help them save water in their home and throughout the community.\n\nWater - Use It Wisely launched in Arizona in 2000. It has since expanded into a multimillion-dollar campaign with more than 250 public and private water companies Nationwide.\n\nInterested parties are provided with customizable marketing materials that they can tailor to their city or town and use at their disposal.\n\nA study taken the Behavior Research Center pointed to the effectiveness of the effort by the amount of recognition within the community. The study said that after 18 months of the exposure to the campaign, there is 69 percent recognition and calls for conservation assistance jumped from 8,494 in 1999 to 14,649 in 2001.\n\nOne of the latest cities to get involved in the campaign is Durham, North Carolina where they recently held a Water – Use It Wisely Sales Event encouraging residents to exchange old shower heads for new, free, water-efficient shower heads.\n\nWater – Use It Wisely was recently featured as a “Go Green Action Step” in best-selling author David Bach’s recent title, Go Green, Live Rich.\n\n"}
{"id": "1648940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648940", "title": "YIVO", "text": "YIVO\n\nYIVO (Yiddish: , ), established in 1925 in Wilno in the Second Polish Republic (now Vilnius, Lithuania) as the Yidisher Visnshaftlekher Institut (Yiddish: , , Yiddish Scientific Institute), is an organization that preserves, studies, and teaches the cultural history of Jewish life throughout Eastern Europe, Germany, and Russia as well as orthography, lexicography, and other studies related to Yiddish. (The word \"yidisher\" means both \"Yiddish\" and \"Jewish.\") The English name of the organization was changed to the Institute for Jewish Research after its relocation to New York City, but it is still known mainly by its Yiddish acronym. YIVO is now a member of the Center for Jewish History and serves as the \"de facto\" recognized language regulator of the Yiddish language.\n\nYIVO preserves manuscripts, rare books, and diaries, and other Yiddish sources. The YIVO Library in New York contains over 385,000 volumes dating from as early as the 16th century. The YIVO archives hold over 24,000,000 documents, photographs, recordings, posters, films, and other artifacts. Together, they comprise the world's largest collection of materials related to the history and culture of Central and East European Jewry and the American Jewish immigrant experience. The archives and library collections Include works in twelve major languages, including English, French, German, Hebrew, Russian, Polish, and Judaeo-Spanish.\n\nYIVO also functions as a publisher of Yiddish-language books and of periodicals including \"YIVO Bleter\" (founded 1931), \"Yedies Fun YIVO\" (founded 1929), and \"Yidishe Shprakh\" (founded 1941). It is also responsible for English-language publications such as the \"YIVO Annual of Jewish Social Studies\" (founded 1946).\n\nYIVO was initially proposed by Yiddish linguist and writer Nochum Shtif (1879–1933). He characterized his advocacy of Yiddish as \"realistic\" Zionism, contrasted to the \"visionary\" Hebraists and the \"self-hating\" assimilationists who adopted Russian or Polish. Other key founders included philologist Max Weinreich (1894–1969) and historian Elias Tcherikower (1881–1943).\n\nYIVO was founded at a Berlin conference in 1925, but headquartered in Wilno, a city with a large Jewish population that had been annexed to Eastern Poland in 1922. The early YIVO also had branches in Berlin, Warsaw and New York City. Over the next decade, smaller groups arose in many of the other countries with Ashkenazi populations.\n\nIn YIVO's first decades, Tcherikover headed the historical research section, which also included Simon Dubnow, Saul M. Ginsburg, Abraham Menes, and Jacob Shatzky. Leibush Lehrer (1887–1964) headed a section including psychologists and educators Abraham Golomb, H. S. Kasdan, and Abraham Aaron Roback. Jacob Lestschinsky (1876–1966) headed a section of economists and demographers Ben-Adir, Liebmann Hersch, and Moshe Shalit. Weinreich's language and literature section included Judah Leib Cahan, Alexander Harkavy, Judah A. Joffe, Zelig Kalmanovich, Shmuel Niger, Noach Pryłucki, and Zalman Reisen. YIVO also collected and preserved ethnographic materials under the direction of its Ethnographic Committee. In 1925, YIVO's honorary board of trustees or \"Curatorium\" consisted of Simon Dubnow, Albert Einstein, Sigmund Freud, Moses Gaster, Edward Sapir and Chaim Zhitlowsky.\n\nFrom 1934–1940, YIVO operated a graduate training program known as the Aspirantur. Named after Zemach Shabad, YIVO’s chairman, the program held classes and guided students in conducting original research in the field of Jewish studies. Many of the students' projects were sociological in nature (reflecting the involvement of Max Weinreich) and gathered information on contemporary Jewish life in the Vilna region.\n\nThe Nazi advance into Eastern Europe caused YIVO to move its operations to New York City. A second important center, known as the Fundacion IWO, was established in Buenos Aires, Argentina. All four directors of YIVO's research sections were already in the Americas when the war broke out or were able to make their way there. For their own reasons, the Nazis carried the bulk of YIVO's archives to Berlin, where the papers survived the war intact, and were eventually moved to YIVO in New York City.\n\nThe YIVO Library was looted by the Germans and the ERR, but an organization that called itself \"The Paper Brigade\" were able to smuggle out many books and preserve them from destruction.\n\nThe Chicago YIVO Society is a third active center today.\n\nYIVO has undertaken many major scholarly publication projects, the most recent being \"The YIVO Encyclopedia of Jews in Eastern Europe\", published in March 2008 in cooperation with Yale University Press. Under the leadership of editor-in-chief Gershon David Hundert, professor of history and of Jewish Studies at McGill University in Montreal, this unprecedented reference work systematically represents the history and culture of Eastern European Jews from their first settlement in the region to the present day. More than 1,800 alphabetical entries encompass a vast range of topics including religion, folklore, politics, art, music, theater, language and literature, places, organizations, intellectual movements, and important figures. The two-volume set also features more than 1,000 illustrations and 55 maps. With original contributions from an international team of 450 distinguished scholars, the encyclopedia covers the region between Germany and the Ural Mountains, from which more than 2.5 million Jews emigrated to the United States between 1870 and 1920.\n\nThe first complete English-language edition of Max Weinreich's classic book \"History of the Yiddish Language\", edited by Dr. Paul (Hershl) Glasser, was published in two volumes in 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
