{"id": "3720557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3720557", "title": "Albert Einstein Peace Prize", "text": "Albert Einstein Peace Prize\n\nThe Albert Einstein Peace Prize is/was a peace prize awarded annually since 1980 by the Albert Einstein Peace Prize Foundation. The Foundation dates from 1979, the centenary of the birth of Albert Einstein, and evokes the Russell–Einstein Manifesto which urges nuclear disarmament. It was established, with the sponsorship of the trustees of Einstein's estate, by William M. Swartz (1912–87) a wealthy businessman and the grandfather of activist Aaron Swartz. William M. Swartz was involved in the Pugwash Conferences on Science and World Affairs and established the Foundation in part to support Pugwash. Prize winners, mainly active in nuclear disarmament, receive(d) $50,000.\n"}
{"id": "4570516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4570516", "title": "Ana Botella", "text": "Ana Botella\n\nAna Botella Serrano (born in 1953) is a Spanish politician belonging to the Spanish People's Party and the first female Mayor of Madrid, from December 2011 to June 2015.\n\nBorn in Madrid on 23 July 1953, she took her basic education in an elite school managed by the Congregation of Jesus (called the \"Irish Mothers\" in Spain). She studied Law in the Complutense University of Madrid. After graduating, she passed a public examination to the Body of Civil Administrators of the State, becoming a public servant. She married José María Aznar in 1977. She became a member of People's Alliance in 1978.\n\nBotella served on the Madrid City Council since 2003 where, as well as being deputy mayor, she also headed the Departments of Social Services (2003-2007) and of the Environment (2007-2011). \nShe was criticised for failure to tackle Madrid's air pollution which frequently exceeded permitted levels while she was responsible for the city's environment. Botella was an outspoken climate change skeptic.\n\nBotella was sworn in as mayor on 27 December 2011, after having been deputy mayor to Alberto Ruiz-Gallardón, mayor of the capital from 2003, who had resigned to serve as Justice Minister in the new government formed by Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy.\n\nOn 9 September 2014 Ana Botella called a press conference after having cancelled all her appointments where she announced that she would not be running in the May 2015 municipal elections for mayor.\n\nBotella and former Spanish prime minister José María Aznar have been married since 1977 and have three children: José María, Ana, and Alonso. Her daughter married Alejandro Agag at the royal site of El Escorial on 5 September 2002. Ana Botella has four grandchildren by her daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "3695222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3695222", "title": "Ausflag", "text": "Ausflag\n\nAusflag is an organization that was established to promote a new flag of Australia. \n\nAusflag was formed in 1981 by Harold Scruby who has since worked to foster debate on the design of the flag. Prominent Australians that have been involved in the direction of Ausflag include Nicholas Whitlam, Phillip Adams, Cathy Freeman, Malcolm Turnbull, Janet Holmes à Court and Nick Greiner. Former chair of the Australian Republican Movement Malcolm Turnbull left the board of Ausflag in 1994 after being asked for his resignation and in 2004 joined the Australian National Flag Association. \n\nThe group is affiliated with NZFlag, a trust promoting a redesign of the Flag of New Zealand.\n\nAusflag has promoted design competitions for a new flag in 1986 before the bicentenary, in 1993 after Sydney won the right to host the 2000 Olympics, and in 1998, before the new millennium.\n\nIn January 2011 the organisation drafted a statement in support of a new flag, which has been signed by over a dozen Australian of the Year recipients, including Patrick McGorry, Ian Kiernan, Dawn Fraser, Shane Gould, Ian Frazer, Gustav Nossal and Tim Flannery.\n\nOn Australia Day 2013, Ausflag launched a seventh flag design, a concept for an Australian Sporting Flag. To date none of the flag designs promoted by the organisation has achieved customary use. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2177486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2177486", "title": "Bandiera Rossa Association", "text": "Bandiera Rossa Association\n\nThe Bandiera Rossa Association (Associazione Bandiera Rossa) is an association of members of the Critical Left party in Italy. Politically it is Trotskyist and is the Italian affiliate of the Unified Secretariat of the Fourth International (USFI). Bandiera Rossa is a left wing current. \"Bandiera Rossa\" is Italian for \"Red flag\".\n\nIt originated in the late 1940s as the Revolutionary Communist Group (GCR) and was led by Livio Maitan who remained a leading fixture in both the GCR and its successor organisations and the USFI until his death in 2004.\n\nIn 1979 despite having lost many of the membership gains accrued through entrist work in the Communist Youth the GCR renamed itself the Revolutionary Communist League (LCR). It grew moderately, despite elements growing dissatisfied and leaving to form rival Trotskyist groups, through the recruitment of students and work in the factories. It took part in various electoral blocs in the late 1970s.\n\nWhen much of the Italian far left formed the organisation Democrazia Proletaria (Proletarian Democracy) the LCR joined it as a recognised faction. Later still when the PRC was founded the former LCR argued for Democrazia Proletaria to dissolve into the larger formation. \n\n"}
{"id": "704368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704368", "title": "Black budget", "text": "Black budget\n\nA black budget is a government budget that is allocated for classified or other secret operations of a nation. The black budget is an account expenses and spending related to military research and covert operations. The black budget is mostly classified due to security reasons.\n\nThe black budget can be complicated to calculate, but in the United States it has been estimated to be over US$50 billion a year.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense has a black budget it uses to fund black projects—expenditures that it does not want to disclose publicly. The annual cost of the United States Department of Defense black budget was estimated at $30 billion in 2008, but was increased to an estimated $50 billion in 2009.\nA black budget article by \"The Washington Post\", based on information given by Edward Snowden, detailed how the US allocated $52.8 billion in 2012 for the black budget.\n\nThe black budget has been known to hide multiple types of projects from elected officials. With secret code names and hidden figures, the details of the black budget are revealed only to certain people of congress, if at all.\n\nThis budget was approved by the US National Security Act of 1947, they created the Central Intelligence Agency, the National Security Council and reorganized some military bases with help of the Defense Department.\n\nThe U.S. Government claims that the money given to this budget investigates advanced sciences and technologies for military issues. This kind of research is responsible for the creation of new aircraft, weapons, and satellites. \n\nIn 2018, some newspapers reported that the Trump administration asked for $81.1 billion for the 2019 black budget. The request included $59.9 billion for the National Intelligence Program, covering non-military programs and activities. Also $21.2 billion for the Military Intelligence Program which covers Intelligence activities by the Department of Defense. “In total, these two are more than 3.4% higher than the FY2018 request and the largest since then... [and it's] the largest announced since the government began disclosing its intelligence budget request in 2007...\" according to The Washington Times' Andrew Blake.\n\nAccording to an estimate by the Moscow-based , about 21% (3.2 trillion rubles) of the Russian federal budget was \"black\" (not itemized) in 2015. This represents a doubling from 2010. The increase coincided with huge increases in the Russian military budget under Russian President Vladimir Putin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "571026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=571026", "title": "Blindness and education", "text": "Blindness and education\n\nThe subject of blindness and education has included evolving approaches and public perceptions of how best to address the special needs of blind students. The practice of institutionalizing the blind in asylums has a history extending back over a thousand years, but it was not until the 18th century that authorities created schools for them where blind children, particularly those more privileged, were usually educated in such specialized settings. These institutions provided simple vocational and adaptive training, as well as grounding in academic subjects offered through alternative formats. Literature, for example, was being made available to blind students by way of embossed Roman letters.\n\nThe Ancient Egyptians were the first civilisation to display an interest in the causes and cures for disabilities and during some periods blind people are recorded as representing a substantial portion of the poets and musicians in society. In the Middle Kingdom (c. 2040-1640 BCE), blind harpists are depicted on tomb walls. They were not exclusively interested in the causes and cures for blindness but also the social care of the individual.\n\nAsylums for the Industrious Blind were established in Edinburgh and Bristol in 1765, but the first school anywhere, to expressly teach the blind was set up by Henry Dannett in Liverpool as the School for the Instruction of the Indigent Blind. It taught the blind children skills in manual crafts although there was no formal education as such. Other institutions set up at that time were: the School for the Indigent Blind in London and the Asylum and School for the Indigent Blind at Norwich.\n\nIn France, the Institut National des Jeunes Aveugles was established in 1784 by Valentin Haüy. Haüy's impulse to help the blind began when he witnessed the blind being mocked during a religious street festival. In May 1784, at Saint-Germain-des-Prés, he met a young beggar, François Lesueur; he was his first student. He developed a method of raised letters, to teach Lesueur to read, and compose sentences. He made rapid progress, and Haüy announced the success, in September 1784 in the \"Journal de Paris\", then receiving encouragement from the French Academy of Sciences.\n\nWith the help of the Philanthropic Society Haüy founded the Institute for Blind Youth, the Institut National des Jeunes Aveugles, in February 1785. Building on the philanthropic spinning workshop for the blind, the institution of Blind Children was dedicated on 26 December 1786. Its purpose was to educate students and teach them manual work: spinning, and letterpress.\n\nAttempts to actually educate the blind were first attempted towards the end of the century. Until that time they were considered mostly ineducable and un-trainable. One of the major figures in the movement to educate the blind was Sébastien Guillié. He established the first ophthalmological clinic in France and became director of the school in Paris.\n\nLouis Braille attended Haüy's school in 1819 and later taught there. He soon became determined to fashion a system of reading and writing that could bridge the critical gap in communication between the sighted and the blind. In his own words: \"Access to communication in the widest sense is access to knowledge, and that is vitally important for us if we [the blind] are not to go on being despised or patronized by condescending sighted people. We do not need pity, nor do we need to be reminded we are vulnerable. We must be treated as equals – and communication is the way this can be brought about.\"\nIn 1821, Braille learned of a communication system devised by Captain Charles Barbier of the French Army. Barbier's \"night writing\", was a code of dots and dashes impressed into thick paper. These impressions could be interpreted entirely by the fingers, letting soldiers share information on the battlefield without having light or needing to speak.\n\nThe captain's code turned out to be too complex to use in its original military form, but it inspired Braille to develop a system of his own. Braille worked tirelessly on his ideas, and his system was largely completed by 1824, when he was just fifteen years of age. From Barbier's night writing, he innovated by simplifying its form and maximizing its efficiency. He made uniform columns for each letter, and he reduced the twelve raised dots to six. He published his system in 1829, and by the second edition in 1837 had discarded the dashes because they were too difficult to read. Crucially, Braille's smaller cells were capable of being recognized as letters with a single touch of a finger.\n\nThe first school with a focus on proper education was the Yorkshire School for the Blind in England. Established in 1835, it taught arithmetic, reading and writing, while at the school of the London Society for Teaching the Blind to Read founded in 1838 a general education was seen as the ideal that would contribute the most to the prosperity of the blind. Educator Thomas Lucas introduced the Lucas Type, an early form of embossed text different from the Braille system.\n\nAnother important institution at the time was the General Institution for the Blind at Birmingham (1847), which included training for industrial jobs alongside a more general curriculum. The first school for blind adults was founded in 1866 at Worcester and was called the College for the Blind Sons of Gentlemen.\n\nIn 1889 the Edgerton Commission published a report that recommended that the blind should receive compulsory education from the age of 5–16 years. The law was finally passed in 1893, as an element of the broader Elementary Education Act. This act ensured that blind people up to the age of 16 years were entitled to an Elementary-Level Education as well as to Vocational Training.\n\nThe 1880s also saw the introduction of compulsory elementary education for the Blind throughout the United States. (However, most states of the United States did not pass laws specifically making elementary education compulsory \"for the blind\" until after 1900.)\nBy this time, reading codes - chiefly Braille and New York Point - had gained favor among educators as embossed letters (such as Moon type were said by some to be difficult to learn and cumbersome to use, and so (DOT CODES) were either newly created or imported from well-established schools in Europe. Though New York Point was widely accepted for a time, Braille has since emerged the victor in what some blindness historians have dubbed “the War of the Dots.”\n\nThe more respected residential schools were staffed by competent teachers who kept abreast of the latest developments in educational theory. While some of their methods seem archaic by today’s standards - particularly where their Vocational Training options are concerned - their efforts did pave the way for the education and integration of blind students in the 20th century. \n\nThe early 20th century saw a handful of blind students enrolled in their neighborhood schools, with special educational supports. Most still attended residential institutions, but that number dropped steadily as the years wore on - especially after the white cane was adopted into common use as a mobility tool and symbol of blindness in the 1930s.\n\nAn estimated 253 million people live with vision impairment: 36 million are blind and 217 million have moderate to severe vision impairment in the world with nearly 80 lakhs in India itself out of which number of blind students is close to 30 lakhs. Blind students continue to study with huge efforts and surmounting all obstacles with positive attitude. As per the law of nature, when one sensory organ does not function in human body, the other sensory organs become more active to compensate the defect. In case of blind person, hearing and touch are very active and play an important role.\nAniruddha’s Bank for The Blind conceptualized and operationalized by Shree Aniruddha Upasana Foundation, Mumbai, India supports the education for blind in an affectionate and unique way. The bank, records the study curriculum in 12 languages like English, Hindi, Marathi, Gujarati, Tamil, Kannada, Bengali, Malayalam, Telugu, Sanskrit and so on by the people who are well versed in their own mother tongue. Till date, the recorded CDs have made a difference in the lives of blind people in almost 26 states of India and a few regions of neighbouring country Pakistan too. The bank maintains high quality and standard of the CDs by regular and diligent verification.\n\nMost blind and visually impaired students now attend their neighborhood schools, often aided in their educational pursuits by regular teachers of academics and by a team of professionals who train them in alternative skills: Orientation and Mobility (O and M) training - instruction in independent travel - is usually taught by contractors educated in that area, as is Braille.\n\nBlind children may also need special training in understanding spatial concepts, and in self-care, as they are often unable to learn visually and through imitation as other children do. Moreover, home economics and education dealing with anatomy are necessary for children with severe visual impairments.\n\nSince only ten percent of those registered as legally blind have no usable vision, many students are also taught to use their remaining sight to maximum effect, so that some read print (with or without optical aids) and travel without canes.\n\nA combination of necessary training tailored to the unique needs of each student, and solid academics, is going a long way towards producing blind and visually impaired students capable of dealing with the world independently.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "129190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=129190", "title": "Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms", "text": "Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\n\nThe Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms (), in Canada often simply the Charter, is a bill of rights entrenched in the Constitution of Canada. It forms the first part of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\". The Charter guarantees certain political rights to Canadian citizens and civil rights of everyone in Canada from the policies and actions of all areas and levels of the government. It is designed to unify Canadians around a set of principles that embody those rights. The Charter was signed into law by Queen Elizabeth II of Canada on April 17, 1982, along with the rest of the Act.\n\nThe Charter was preceded by the Canadian Bill of Rights, which was enacted in 1960. However, the Bill of Rights is only a federal statute, rather than a constitutional document. As a federal statute, it can be amended through the ordinary legislative process and has no application to provincial laws. The Supreme Court of Canada also narrowly interpreted the Bill of Rights and the Court was reluctant to declare laws inoperative. The relative ineffectiveness of the Canadian Bill of Rights motivated many to improve rights protections in Canada. The movement for human rights and freedoms that emerged after World War II also wanted to entrench the principles enunciated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The British Parliament formally enacted the Charter as a part of the\" Canada Act 1982\" at the request of the Parliament of Canada in 1982, the result of the efforts of the government of Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau.\n\nOne of the most notable effects of the adoption of the Charter was to greatly expand the scope of judicial review, because the Charter is more explicit with respect to the guarantee of rights and the role of judges in enforcing them than was the Bill of Rights. The courts, when confronted with violations of Charter rights, have struck down unconstitutional federal and provincial statutes and regulations or parts of statutes and regulations, as they did when Canadian case law was primarily concerned with resolving issues of federalism. The Charter, however, granted new powers to the courts to enforce remedies that are more creative and to exclude more evidence in trials. These powers are greater than what was typical under the common law and under a system of government that, influenced by Canada's parent country the United Kingdom, was based upon Parliamentary supremacy. As a result, the Charter has attracted both broad support from a majority of the Canadian electorate and criticisms by opponents of increased judicial power. The Charter only applies to government laws and actions (including the laws and actions of federal, provincial, and municipal governments and public school boards), and sometimes to the common law, not to private activity.\n\nUnder the Charter, people physically present in Canada have numerous civil and political rights. Most of the rights can be exercised by any legal person (the Charter does not define the corporation as a \"legal person\"), but a few of the rights belong exclusively to natural persons, or (as in sections 3 and 6) only to citizens of Canada. The rights are enforceable by the courts through section 24 of the Charter, which allows courts discretion to award remedies to those whose rights have been denied. This section also allows courts to exclude evidence in trials if the evidence was acquired in a way that conflicts with the Charter and might damage the reputation of the justice system. Section 32 confirms that the Charter is binding on the federal government, the territories under its authority, and the provincial governments.\nThe rights and freedoms enshrined in 34 sections of the Charter include:\n\nPrecluding all the freedoms and forming the basis of the Charter, the very first section, known as \"limitations clause\", allows governments to justify certain infringements of Charter rights. Every case in which a court discovers a violation of the Charter would therefore require a section 1 analysis to determine if the law can still be upheld. Infringements are upheld if the purpose for the government action is to achieve what would be recognized as an urgent or important objective in a free society, and if the infringement can be \"demonstrably justified.\" Section 1 has thus been used to uphold laws against objectionable conduct such as hate speech (e.g., in \"R. v. Keegstra\") and obscenity (e.g., in \"R. v. Butler\"). Section 1 also confirms that the rights listed in the Charter are guaranteed.\n\nIn addition, some of these rights are also subjected to the \"notwithstanding clause\" (section 33). The notwithstanding clause authorizes governments to temporarily override the rights and freedoms in sections 2 and 7–15 for up to five years, subject to renewal. The Canadian federal government has never invoked it, and some have speculated that its use would be politically costly. In the past, the notwithstanding clause was invoked routinely by the province of Quebec (which did not support the enactment of the Charter but is subject to it nonetheless). The provinces of Saskatchewan and Alberta have also invoked the notwithstanding clause, to end a strike and to protect an exclusively heterosexual definition of marriage, respectively. (Note that Alberta's use of the notwithstanding clause is of no force or effect, since the definition of marriage is federal not provincial jurisdiction.) The territory of Yukon also passed legislation once that invoked the notwithstanding clause, but the legislation was never proclaimed in force.\n\nGenerally, the right to participate in political activities and the right to a democratic form of government are protected:\n\nRights of people in dealing with the justice system and law enforcement are protected, namely:\n\nGenerally, people have the right to use either the English or French language in communications with Canada's federal government and certain provincial governments. Specifically, the language laws in the Charter include:\n\nVarious provisions help to clarify how the Charter works in practice. These include,\nFinally, Section 34: states that Part I of the \"Constitution Act, 1982\", containing the first 34 sections of the Act, may be collectively referred to as the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\nMany of the rights and freedoms that are protected under the Charter, including the rights to freedom of speech, habeas corpus and the presumption of innocence, have their roots in a set of Canadian laws and legal precedents sometimes known as the Implied Bill of Rights. Many of these rights were also included in the Canadian Bill of Rights, which the Canadian Parliament enacted in 1960. However, the Canadian Bill of Rights had a number of shortcomings. Unlike the Charter, it was an ordinary Act of Parliament, which could be amended by a simple majority of Parliament, and it was applicable only to the federal government. The courts also chose to interpret the Bill of Rights conservatively, only on rare occasions applying it to find a contrary law inoperative. The Bill of Rights did not contain all of the rights that are now included in the Charter, omitting, for instance, the right to vote and freedom of movement within Canada.\n\nThe centennial of Canadian Confederation in 1967 aroused greater interest within the government in constitutional reform. Said reforms would include improving safeguards of rights, as well as patriation of the Constitution, meaning the British Parliament would no longer have to approve constitutional amendments. Subsequently, Attorney General Pierre Trudeau appointed law professor Barry Strayer to research a potential bill of rights. While writing his report, Strayer consulted with a number of notable legal scholars, including Walter Tarnopolsky. Strayer's report advocated a number of ideas that were later incorporated into the Charter, including protection for language rights. Strayer also advocated excluding economic rights. Finally, he recommended allowing for limits on rights. Such limits are included in the Charter's limitation and notwithstanding clauses. In 1968, Strayer was made the Director of the Constitutional Law Division of the Privy Council Office and in 1974, he became Assistant Deputy Minister of Justice. During those years, Strayer played a role in writing the bill that was ultimately adopted.\n\nMeanwhile, Trudeau, who had become Liberal leader and prime minister in 1968, still very much wanted a constitutional bill of rights. The federal government and the provinces discussed creating one during negotiations for patriation, which resulted in the Victoria Charter in 1971. This never came to be implemented. However, Trudeau continued with his efforts to patriate the Constitution, and promised constitutional change during the 1980 Quebec referendum. He would succeed in 1982 with the passage of the \"Canada Act 1982\". This enacted the \"Constitution Act, 1982\".\n\nThe inclusion of a charter of rights in the \"Constitution Act\" was a much-debated issue. Trudeau spoke on television in October 1980, and announced his intention to constitutionalize a bill of rights that would include fundamental freedoms, democratic guarantees, freedom of movement, legal rights, equality and language rights. He did not want a notwithstanding clause. While his proposal gained popular support, provincial leaders opposed the potential limits on their powers. The federal Progressive Conservative opposition feared liberal bias among judges, should courts be called upon to enforce rights. Additionally, the British Parliament cited their right to uphold Canada's old form of government. At a suggestion of the Conservatives, Trudeau's government thus agreed to a committee of Senators and MPs to further examine the bill of rights as well as the patriation plan. During this time, 90 hours were spent on the bill of rights alone, all filmed for television, while civil rights experts and advocacy groups put forward their perceptions on the Charter's flaws and omissions and how to remedy them. As Canada had a parliamentary system of government, and as judges were perceived not to have enforced rights well in the past, it was questioned whether the courts should be named as the enforcers of the Charter, as Trudeau wanted. Conservatives argued that elected politicians should be trusted instead. It was eventually decided that the responsibility should go to the courts. At the urging of civil libertarians, judges could even now exclude evidence in trials if acquired in breach of Charter rights in certain circumstances, something the Charter was not originally going to provide for. As the process continued, more features were added to the Charter, including equality rights for people with disabilities, more sex equality guarantees and recognition of Canada's multiculturalism. The limitations clause was also reworded to focus less on the importance of parliamentary government and more on the justifiability of limits in free societies; the latter logic was more in line with rights developments around the world after World War II.\nIn its decision in the \"Patriation Reference\" (1981), the Supreme Court of Canada had ruled there was a constitutional convention that some provincial approval should be sought for constitutional reform. As the provinces still had doubts about the Charter's merits, Trudeau was forced to accept the notwithstanding clause to allow governments to opt out of certain obligations. The notwithstanding clause was accepted as part of a deal called the Kitchen Accord, negotiated by the federal Attorney General Jean Chrétien, Ontario's justice minister Roy McMurtry and Saskatchewan's justice minister Roy Romanow. Pressure from provincial governments (which in Canada have jurisdiction over property) and from the country's left wing, especially the New Democratic Party, also prevented Trudeau from including any rights protecting private property.\n\nNevertheless, Quebec did not support the Charter (or the \"Canada Act 1982\"), with \"conflicting interpretations\" as to why. The opposition could have owed to the \"Parti Québécois\" leadership being allegedly uncooperative because it was more committed to gaining sovereignty for Quebec. It could have owed to Quebec leaders being excluded from the negotiation of the Kitchen Accord, which they saw as being too centralist. It could have owed to provincial leaders' objections to the Accord's provisions relating to the process of future constitutional amendment. They also opposed the inclusion of mobility rights and minority language education rights. The Charter is still applicable in Quebec because all provinces are bound by the Constitution. However, Quebec's opposition to the 1982 patriation package has led to two failed attempts to amend the Constitution (the Meech Lake Accord and Charlottetown Accord) which were designed primarily to obtain Quebec's political approval of the Canadian constitutional order.\n\nWhile the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms was adopted in 1982, it was not until 1985 that the main provisions regarding equality rights (section 15) came into effect. The delay was meant to give the federal and provincial governments an opportunity to review pre-existing statutes and strike potentially unconstitutional inequalities.\n\nThe typography of the physical document pictured here, and still distributed today, was typeset by Ottawa's David Berman intentionally in Carl Dair's Cartier typeface: at the time the most prominent Canadian typeface, having been commissioned by the Governor-General as a celebration of Canada's centenary in 1967.\n\nThe Charter has been amended since its enactment. Section 25 was amended in 1983 to explicitly recognize more rights regarding Aboriginal land claims, and section 16.1 was added in 1993. There have also been a number of unsuccessful attempts to amend the Charter, including the failed Charlottetown Accord of 1992. The Charlottetown Accord would have specifically required the Charter to be interpreted in a manner respectful of Quebec's distinct society, and would have added further statements to the \"Constitution Act, 1867\" regarding racial and sexual equality and collective rights, and about minority language communities. Though the Accord was negotiated among many interest groups, the resulting provisions were so vague that Trudeau, then out of office, feared they would actually conflict with and undermine the Charter's individual rights. He felt judicial review of the rights might be undermined if courts had to favour the policies of provincial governments, as governments would be given responsibility over linguistic minorities. Trudeau thus played a prominent role in leading the popular opposition to the Accord.\n\nThe task of interpreting and enforcing the Charter falls to the courts, with the Supreme Court of Canada being the ultimate authority on the matter.\n\nWith the Charter's supremacy confirmed by section 52 of the Constitution Act, 1982, the courts continued their practice of striking down unconstitutional statutes or parts of statutes as they had with earlier case law regarding federalism. However, under section 24 of the Charter, courts also gained new powers to enforce creative remedies and exclude more evidence in trials. Courts have since made many important decisions, including \"R. v. Morgentaler\" (1988), which struck down Canada's abortion law, and \"Vriend v. Alberta\" (1998), in which the Supreme Court found the province's exclusion of homosexuals from protection against discrimination violated the equality rights under section 15. In the latter case, the Court then read the protection into the law.\n\nCourts may receive Charter questions in a number of ways. Rights claimants could be prosecuted under a criminal law that they argue is unconstitutional. Others may feel government services and policies are not being dispensed in accordance with the Charter, and apply to lower-level courts for injunctions against the government (as was the case in \"Doucet-Boudreau v. Nova Scotia (Minister of Education)\"). A government may also raise questions of rights by submitting reference questions to higher-level courts; for example, Prime Minister Paul Martin's government approached the Supreme Court with Charter questions as well as federalism concerns in the case \"Re Same-Sex Marriage\" (2004). Provinces may also do this with their superior courts. The government of Prince Edward Island initiated the \"Provincial Judges Reference\" by asking its provincial Supreme Court a question on judicial independence under section 11.\n\nIn several important cases, judges developed various tests and precedents for interpreting specific provisions of the Charter. These include the \"Oakes test\" for section 1, set out in the case \"R. v. Oakes\" (1986), and the (now defunct) \"Law test\" for section 15, developed in \"Law v. Canada\" (1999). Since \"Re B.C. Motor Vehicle Act\" (1985), various approaches to defining and expanding the scope of fundamental justice (the Canadian name for natural justice or due process) under section 7 have been adopted. (\"For more information, see the \").\n\nIn general, courts have embraced a \"purposive interpretation\" of Charter rights. This means that since early cases like \"Hunter v. Southam\" (1984) and \"R. v. Big M Drug Mart\" (1985), they have concentrated not on the traditional, limited understanding of what each right meant when the Charter was adopted in 1982, but rather on changing the scope of rights as appropriate to fit their broader purpose. This is tied to the \"generous interpretation\" of rights, as the purpose of the Charter provisions is assumed to be to increase rights and freedoms of people in a variety of circumstances, at the expense of the government powers. Constitutional scholar Peter Hogg has approved of the generous approach in some cases, although for others he argues the purpose of the provisions was not to achieve a set of rights as broad as courts have imagined. Indeed, this approach has not been without its critics. Alberta politician Ted Morton and political scientist Rainer Knopff have been very critical of this phenomenon. Although they feel the basis for the approach, the living tree doctrine (the classical name for generous interpretations of the Canadian Constitution), is sound, they argue Charter case law has been more radical. When the living tree doctrine is applied right, the authors claim, \"The elm remained an elm; it grew new branches but did not transform itself into an oak or a willow.\" The doctrine can be used, for example, so a right is upheld even when a government threatens to violate it with new technology, as long as the essential right remains the same; but the authors claim that the courts have used the doctrine to \"create new rights.\" As an example, the authors note that the Charter right against self-incrimination has been extended to cover scenarios in the justice system that had previously been unregulated by self-incrimination rights in other Canadian laws.\n\nAnother general approach to interpreting Charter rights is to consider international legal precedents with countries that have specific rights protections, such as the United States Bill of Rights (an influence on aspects of the Charter) and the Constitution of South Africa. However, international precedent is only of guiding value and is not binding. For example, the Supreme Court has referred to the Charter and the American Bill of Rights as being \"born to different countries in different ages and in different circumstances.\"\n\nAdvocacy groups frequently intervene in cases to make arguments on how to interpret the Charter. Some examples are the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association, Canadian Civil Liberties Association, the Canadian Mental Health Association, the Canadian Labour Congress, the Women's Legal Education and Action Fund (LEAF), and REAL Women of Canada. The purpose of such interventions is to assist the court and to attempt to influence the court to render a decision favourable to the legal interests of the group.\n\nA further approach to the Charter, taken by the courts, is the dialogue principle, which involves greater participation by elected governments. This approach involves governments drafting legislation in response to court rulings and courts acknowledging the effort if the new legislation is challenged.\n\nSome Canadian Members of Parliament saw the movement to entrench a charter as contrary to the British model of Parliamentary supremacy. Others would say that the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR) has now limited British parliamentary power to a greater degree than the Canadian Charter limited the power of the Canadian Parliament and provincial legislatures. Hogg has speculated that the British adopted the \"Human Rights Act 1998\", which allows the ECHR to be enforced directly in domestic courts, partly because they were inspired by the similar Canadian Charter.\n\nThe Canadian Charter bears a number of similarities to the European Convention, specifically in relation to the limitations clauses contained in the European document. Because of this similarity with European human rights law, the Supreme Court of Canada turns not only to the Constitution of the United States case law in interpreting the Charter, but also to European Court of Human Rights cases.\n\nThe core distinction between the United States Bill of Rights and Canadian Charter is the existence of the limitations and notwithstanding clauses. Canadian courts have consequently interpreted each right more expansively. However, due to the limitations clause, where a violation of a right exists, the law will not necessarily grant protection of that right. In contrast, rights under the US Bill of Rights are absolute and so a violation will not be found until there has been sufficient encroachment on those rights. The sum effect is that both constitutions provide comparable protection of many rights. Fundamental justice (in section 7 of the Canadian Charter) is therefore interpreted to include more legal protections than due process, which is its US equivalent. Freedom of expression in section 2 also has a more wide-ranging scope than the First Amendment to the United States Constitution's freedom of speech. In \"RWDSU v. Dolphin Delivery Ltd.\" (1986), the Canadian Supreme Court considered picketing of the kind the US First Amendment did not permit, as it was disruptive conduct (though there was some speech involved that the First Amendment might otherwise protect). The Supreme Court, however, ruled the picketing, including the disruptive conduct, were fully protected under section 2 of the Charter. The Court then relied on section 1 to find the injunction against the picketing was just. The limitations clause has also allowed governments to enact laws that would be considered unconstitutional in the US. The Supreme Court of Canada has upheld some of Quebec's limits on the use of English on signs and has upheld publication bans that prohibit media from mentioning the names of juvenile criminals.\n\nSection 28 of the Charter performs a function similar to that of the unratified Equal Rights Amendment in the US. While that proposed amendment had many critics, there was no comparable opposition to the Charter's section 28. Still, Canadian feminists had to stage large protests to demonstrate support for the inclusion of the section which had not been part of the original draft of the charter.\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights has several parallels with the Canadian Charter, but in some cases the Covenant goes further with regard to rights in its text. For example, a right to legal aid has been read into section 10 of the Charter (the right to counsel), but the Covenant explicitly guarantees the accused need not pay \"if he does not have sufficient means.\"\n\nThe Canadian Charter has little to say, explicitly at least, about economic and social rights. On this point, it stands in marked contrast with the Quebec Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms and with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. There are some who feel economic rights ought to be read into section 7 rights to security of the person and section 15 equality rights to make the Charter similar to the Covenant. The rationale is that economic rights can relate to a decent standard of living and can help the civil rights flourish in a livable environment. Canadian courts, however, have been hesitant in this area, stating that economic rights are political questions and adding that as positive rights, economic rights are of questionable legitimacy.\n\nThe Charter itself influenced the in the Constitution of South Africa. The limitations clause under section 36 of the South African law has been compared to section 1 of that \"Charter\".\n\nJamaica's Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms was also influenced, in part, by the Canadian charter.\n\nThe Charter was intended to be a source for Canadian values and national unity. As Professor Alan Cairns noted, \"The initial federal government premise was on developing a pan-Canadian identity.\" Trudeau himself later wrote in his \"Memoirs\" that \"Canada itself\" could now be defined as a \"society where all people are equal and where they share some fundamental values based upon freedom\", and that all Canadians could identify with the values of liberty and equality.\n\nThe Charter's unifying purpose was particularly important to the mobility and language rights. According to author Rand Dyck, some scholars believe section 23, with its minority language education rights, \"was the only part of the Charter with which Pierre Trudeau was truly concerned\". Through the mobility and language rights, French Canadians, who have been at the centre of unity debates, are able to travel throughout all Canada and receive government and educational services in their own language. Hence, they are not confined to Quebec (the only province where they form the majority and where most of their population is based), which would polarize the country along regional lines. The Charter was also supposed to standardize previously diverse laws throughout the country and gear them towards a single principle of liberty.\n\nFormer premier of Ontario Bob Rae has stated that the Charter \"functions as a symbol for all Canadians\" in practice because it represents the core value of freedom. Academic Peter Russell has been more skeptical of the Charter's value in this field. Cairns, who feels the Charter is the most important constitutional document to many Canadians, and that the Charter was meant to shape the Canadian identity, has also expressed concern that groups within society see certain provisions as belonging to them alone rather than to all Canadians. It has also been noted that issues like abortion and pornography, raised by the Charter, tend to be controversial. Still, opinion polls in 2002 showed Canadians felt the Charter significantly represented Canada, although many were unaware of the document's actual contents.\n\nThe only values mentioned by the Charter's preamble are recognition for the supremacy of God and the rule of law, but these have been controversial and of minor legal consequence. In 1999, MP Svend Robinson brought forward a failed proposal before the House of Commons of Canada that would have amended the Charter by removing the mention of God, as he felt it did not reflect Canada's diversity.\n\nSection 27 also recognizes a value of multiculturalism. In 2002, polls found 86% of Canadians approved of this section.\n\nWhile the Charter has enjoyed a great deal of popularity, with 82% of Canadians describing it as a good thing in opinion polls in 1987 and 1999, the document has also been subject to published criticisms from both sides of the political spectrum. One left-wing critic is Professor Michael Mandel, who wrote that in comparison to politicians, judges do not have to be as sensitive to the will of the electorate, nor do they have to make sure their decisions are easily understandable to the average Canadian citizen. This, in Mandel's view, limits democracy. Mandel has also asserted that the Charter makes Canada more like the United States, especially by serving corporate rights and individual rights rather than group rights and social rights. He has argued that there are several things that should be included in the Charter, such as a right to health care and a basic right to free education. Hence, the perceived Americanization of Canadian politics is seen as coming at the expense of values more important for Canadians. The labour movement has been disappointed in the reluctance of the courts to use the Charter to support various forms of union activity, such as the \"right to strike\".\n\nConservative critics Morton and Knopff have raised several concerns about the Charter, notably by alleging that the federal government has used it to limit provincial powers by allying with various rights claimants and interest groups. In their book \"The Charter Revolution & the Court Party\", Morton and Knopff express their suspicions of this alliance in detail, accusing the Trudeau and Chrétien governments of funding litigious groups. For example, these governments used the Court Challenges Program to support minority language educational rights claims. Morton and Knopff also assert that crown counsel has intentionally lost cases in which the government was taken to court for allegedly violating rights, particularly gay rights and women's rights.\n\nPolitical scientist Rand Dyck, in observing these criticisms, notes that while judges have had their scope of review widened, they have still upheld most laws challenged on Charter grounds. With regard to litigious interest groups, Dyck points out that \"the record is not as clear as Morton and Knopff imply. All such groups have experienced wins and losses.\"\n\nThe political philosopher Charles Blattberg has criticized the Charter for contributing to the fragmentation of the country, at both the individual and group levels. In encouraging discourse based upon rights, the Charter is said to inject an adversarial spirit into Canadian politics, making it difficult to realize the common good. Blattberg also claims that the Charter undercuts the Canadian political community since it is ultimately a cosmopolitan document. Finally, he argues that people would be more motivated to uphold individual liberties if they were expressed with terms that are much \"thicker\" (less abstract) than rights.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32220914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32220914", "title": "Center for Civic Media", "text": "Center for Civic Media\n\nThe MIT Center for Civic Media (formerly the Center for Future Civic Media) is a research and practical center that develops and implements tools that support political action and \"the information needs of [civic] communities\". Its mission reads in part:\n\nThe Center for Civic Media was founded in 2007 as a joint effort of the MIT Media Lab and the MIT Comparative Media Studies program. Its initial funding, a four-year grant from the Knight Foundation, was won in a contest \"to foster blogs and other digital efforts that seek to bring together residents of a city or town in ways that local newspapers historically have done.\" The founders planned to \"develop new technologies and practices to help newspapers attract readers as a greater number of Americans use the Internet as their primary news source.\" It expanded in 2011.\n\nStaffed by academic, technical, and professional staff, the Center was originally led by Christopher Csikszentmihályi, along with the Media Lab's Mitchel Resnick and Comparative Media Studies' Henry Jenkins. Ethan Zuckerman was announced as the Center's new director in June 2011. Others affiliated with the center include Sasha Costanza-Chock, Benjamin Mako Hill, William Uricchio, Jing Wang, and Jeffrey Warren.\n\n The Center creates tools for deployment and testing in geographic communities. Like the Media Lab, the work is iterative, experimental, and draws in large part on the work of current graduate students. But unlike much other work at the Media Lab, Center tools are expected to have immediate applications, even if narrowly focused on a specific community's need.\n\nWith varying levels of adoption, deployed civic media tools and communities have included:\n\n"}
{"id": "25523484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25523484", "title": "Comat Technologies", "text": "Comat Technologies\n\nComat is an Indian social enterprise specializing in the delivery of information based services to rural citizens in India. It was founded in 1996 and currently has over 800 rural centers from which it serves over 75,000 citizens each day. In June 2011, Comat was acquired by Glodyn Technoserve, an IT services company headquartered in Mumbai, India. The company's prior investors included Omidyar Network, Avigo Capital and Elevar Equity.\n\nComat has been involved in several projects that have eased people's access to essential information based services, especially in the State of Karnataka. The Company provides Government, Education and Financial Services to rural citizens through 800 telecentres set up as part of the Nemmadi project. Comat has also been involved in the digitization of over 20 million land records (Bhoomi (software)), that has benefited over 6.7 million farmers in the State.\n\nIn partnership with the department of Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs, Comat has created a biometric database of over 45 million citizens living in Karnataka. This is the largest electronic citizen database in India and can act as the stepping stone for the Unique Identification Number. Comat has begun the Proof of Concept for the Unique Identification Number in two districts of Karnataka.\n\n"}
{"id": "44252684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44252684", "title": "Comitato Giovani Sordi Italiani", "text": "Comitato Giovani Sordi Italiani\n\nThe Comitato Giovani Sordi Italiani (CGSI) is an Italian non-governmental organization that acts as a peak body for national associations of Deaf people, with a focus on Deaf young people who use sign language and their family and friends. CGSI aims to promote the Human Rights of Deaf Youngs Italians, by working closely with the Italy. CGSI is also a member of the World Federation of the Deaf - Youth Section (WFDYS) and European Union of the Deaf Youth (EUDY).\n\nThe CGSI was established on 14 May 1994 in Aosta, Italy, at the first meeting of the Deaf young Italians, under the auspices of \"Gruppi Giovanili Sordomuti\" of the Ente Nazionale Sordi, the Italian Deaf Association. The first president of CGSI was Francesco Piccigallo, who was also, at that time.\n\n"}
{"id": "10281921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10281921", "title": "Cordobazo", "text": "Cordobazo\n\nThe Cordobazo was a civil uprising in the city of Córdoba, Argentina, at the end of May 1969, during the military dictatorship of General Juan Carlos Onganía, which occurred a few days after the \"Rosariazo\", and a year after the French May '68. Contrary to previous protests, the Cordobazo did not correspond to previous struggles, headed by Marxist workers' leaders, but associated students and workers in the same struggle against the military government.\n\nOn 29 May 1969 there was a general strike in Córdoba, which brought police repression and a civil uprising, an episode later termed the Cordobazo. The next day the CGT de los Argentinos, headed in Cordoba by Agustín Tosco, called for national strike.\n\nGeneral Onganía had taken power during the 1966 coup, self-named \"Revolución Argentina\" (Argentine Revolution), which had toppled President Arturo Illia (Radical Civic Union, UCR). Onganía's regime immediately suspended the right to strike, froze workers' wages, deactivated the Commission on Minimum Wages, while his Minister of Economy, Adalbert Krieger Vasena, decreed a 40% devaluation of the peso. The age of retirement was also extended.\n\nOnganía had also implemented the \"law on repression of Communism\" and had ordered the \"Dirección de Investigación de Políticas Antidemocráticas\" (DIPA) political police to detain political activists and trade-unionists who did not care to cooperate with him in the \"participationist\" policies, and, considering universities as \"centers of subversion and communism\", had also reneged on the 1918 University Reform (which had found its origins in students' protests in Córdoba), violently expelling from universities teachers and students in the \"Noche de los Bastones Largos\".\n\nFurthermore, Onganía was attempting to impose corporatism in Argentina. In this context, the important industrial hub of Córdoba was one of the experimental place of corporatinist policies, implemented by the appointed governor Carlos Caballero.\n\nThese unpopular measures led to increasing strikes and protests in the country. At the beginning of May '69, a succession of strikes and popular assemblies occurred in Córdoba, which were harshly repressed by the provincial and national military authorities of the \"junta\". \n\nOn 13 May 1969, in Tucumán, former workers of a sugar mill took the factory and its manager as hostage, asking for overdue payments. \n\nOn 14 May, in Córdoba, automobile industry workers protested the elimination of the Saturday rest. \n\nOn 15 May, the University of Corrientes increased the price of food tickets in its cafeteria fivefold, and the ensuing protest ended up with one student, Juan José Cabral, killed by the police (see \"Correntinazo\").\n\nOn 17 May, the student Adolfo Bello was killed during a protest in Rosario (see \"Rosariazo\").\n\nOn 21 May, the police killed the 15-year-old student Luis Blanco during a silent march of 4,000 persons in Rosario, in commemoration of Bello's death. Rosario is declared by the authorities an emergency zone under military jurisdiction.\nOn 29 May 1969, the police shot dead the first victim of the Cordobazo, Máximo Mena, which triggered further demonstrations and rioting. Progressively, the population took control of most of the city, setting up barricades to defend themselves. They burnt several administrative centers, as well as the headquarters of the foreign firms, which symbolized Vasena's economic policies, of Citroën and Xerox, although they then accompanied the firefighters in order to impede the fire from extending itself to other city blocks.\n\nOn the night of 29 to 30 May 1969, Onganía decided to send the military to crush the uprising. Meanwhile, the headquarters of the \"CGT de los Argentinos\" (CGTA, an offshoot of the General Confederation of Labour created in 1968 over opposition to the collaborationist stance adopted by the general secretary of the CGT, Augusto Vandor) were searched and its leaders arrested. Thus, Agustín Tosco, one of the main leader of the CGTA, was arrested and condemned by the War Council.\n\nOn the following days, official medias reflected the official vision of the events, allegedly a conspiracy of international communism.\n\nThe Cordobazo immediately influenced events in other parts of the country, where violent demonstrations also occurred, and favorised the influence of trade unionists radically opposed to the dictatorship. This latter current, known as \"sindicalismo clasista\", came to head the SMATA trade union of \nCórdoba, as well as the autonomous unions of Fiat Concord and Fiat Materfer (SITRAC-SITRAM). Workers' leaders of Córdoba, such as \nAgustín Tosco, René Salamanca, Gregorio Flores and José Francisco Páez, played a role on the national political stage. In Salta, Armando Jaime also headed the \"CGT clasista\".\n\nIt also underlined two new facts in Argentine politics: on one hand, the alliance of the students' movement with the workers, and on the other hand, the predominance of the interior (or of the provinces of Argentina) on the capital, Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Cordobazo also had lasting influences on the history of Argentina. On one hand, it showed that the population accepted violent means to defend themselves against the military dictatorship, since no other democratic means of expression could be used. On the other hand, liberal democracy, parliamentarism and the system of elections was globally refused by what came to be known as the \"New Opposition\" (\"Nueva Oposición\"). Even Arturo Frondizi, who had been elected in 1958, had legitimized the 1955 military coup, known as the \"Revolución Libertadora\", which had toppled Juan Perón.\n\nHenceforth, the Cordobazo showed, to contemporary activists, that they could find popular support for violent and revolutionary means of actions against Onganía's dictatorship, thus radicalizing the social and political context of Argentina. Several armed groups were formed or strengthened in the aftermaths of the Cordobazo, among them the \"Fuerzas Armadas Peronistas\" (FAP, 1967), the \"Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación\" (FAL, 1968), the \"Ejército Revolucionario del Pueblo\" (ERP), the Revolutionary Peronists Montoneros, and the \"Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias\".\n\nFinally, the Cordobazo showed Onganía's weakness. He forced his Minister of Economy Vasena to resign, while a transition period opened itself, the military junta, supreme organ of the so-called \"Revolución Argentina\", deciding to depose Onganía of his leadership, replaced in June 1970 by General Roberto M. Levingston, former military attaché at the Argentine Embassy in Washington D.C.. Instead of calling for elections, Levingston decided to go ahead with the \"Revolución Argentina\", governing against the will of the different political parties.\n\nThe latter countered Levingston's policies by the conjoint declaration of 11 November 1970, named \"la Hora del Pueblo\" (The Hour of the People), which called for free and immediate democratic elections to put an end to the political crisis. The declaration was signed by the Radical Civic Union (UCR), the Justicialist Party (Peronist Party), the Argentine Socialist Party (PSA), the Popular Conservative Party (PCP) and the \"Partido Bloquista\" (PB).\n\nThe Opposition's call for elections led to Levingston's replacement by General Alejandro Lanusse, who called for elections but excluded the Peronist Party from participating to it. Lanusse tried to implement starting in July 1971 the \"Gran Acuerdo Nacional\" (Great National Agreement), which was to find an honorable exit for the military junta without allowing Peronism participation to the elections. The proposal was rejected by Perón, exiled in Spain, who formed the FRECILINA (\"Frente Cívico de Liberación Nacional\", Civic Front of National Liberation), headed by his delegate Héctor José Cámpora and which gathered the Justicialist Party and the \"Movimiento de Integración y Desarrollo\" (MID), headed by Arturo Frondizi. The FRECILINA requested free and unrestricted elections, which took place on March 11, 1973.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5341659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5341659", "title": "Coro (non-profit organization)", "text": "Coro (non-profit organization)\n\nCoro is an American non-partisan, non-profit organization best known for its fellowship program dedicated to teaching skills useful in leadership in public affairs to young adults.\n\nThe organization was founded in San Francisco in 1942 by W. Donald Fletcher, an attorney, and Van Duyn Dodge, an investment counselor. Their premise was based on the realization that, unlike law, business or medicine, post graduate training in the area of leadership was non existent, and they wanted to train young veterans in the leadership skills necessary to assure that our democratic system of government could more effectively meet the needs of its citizens.\n\nContrary to the assumption that \"Coro\" refers to the word \"core,\" the name is a nonce word created to represent \"both discovery and exploration.\"\n\nThe Coro Fellows Program in Public Affairs, the organization's premier fellowship, is a full-time, nine month, graduate-level experiential leadership training program that prepares diverse, talented and committed individuals for effective and ethical leadership in the public affairs arena. Unconventional by traditional academic standards, the Fellows Program is rigorous and demanding, aiming toward personal and professional growth. The Fellows Program is offered in Los Angeles, New York, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and St. Louis.\nCoro introduces program participants to all aspects of the public affairs arena, preparing them to translate their ideals into action for improving their own communities and beyond. The fellowship comprises field placements, group interviews, seminars, focus weeks, and individual and group projects.\n\nSixty Fellows are chosen nationally each year through a highly competitive selection process, including a day-long assessment at each center’s city. The Fellows represent a broad range of academic, work, cultural, racial and economic backgrounds, ages and interests. What they share is an unwavering commitment to civic engagement. Recent participants have ranged from 21 to 53 years of age.\n\nThe Coro Exploring Leadership Program is offered in multiple cities, including Oakland, New York, and San Francisco. Launched in 1998, Exploring Leadership (EL) is a full-time summer and part-time academic year program that prepares high school juniors for opportunities in the 21st century workforce and higher education by engaging them to become active citizens and to improve their communities.\n\nEach Coro location has developed a variety of full and part-time, community and regionally based programs aimed at leadership training.\n\nThe Neighborhood Leadership Programs at Coro Southern California, the Coro Leadership Center – St Louis, and Coro Pittsburgh works with emerging and established leaders in specific geographic neighborhood. Program participants identify local issues in their community and then work with Coro trainers to develop and carry out innovative and proactive solutions.\n\nThe Public Allies program at the Coro Center for Civic Leadership advances the skills, networks and experience of diverse young leaders as they strengthen communities, nonprofits and civic participation. Program participants complete a 10-month apprenticeship at a nonprofit organization while also undergoing leadership training and completing a team service project.\n\nThe Women in Leadership program at the Coro Center for Civic Leadership Pittsburgh and at FOCUS St. Louis provides an opportunity for women to refine their personal and professional management leadership skills in order to increase their effectiveness as leaders in the Pittsburgh and St. Louis metropolitan areas.\n\nCleveland Executive Fellowship - A Coro Program funded by the Cleveland Foundation is a full-time one-year, immersion fellowship to develop individuals who can serve as Northeast Ohio's future leaders. Coro National and the Cleveland Foundation launched the fellowship with the ultimate goal of creating a pipeline of civic leaders who can problem solve across traditional boundaries, work with diverse communities and make the civic arena work through networks and collaboration.\n\nLeadership New York at the Coro New York Leadership Center and Leadership Southern California at Coro Southern California are executive-level programs conducted in partnership with local organizations in each city. These mid-career professionals come together to examine and address the most pressing regional issues in their communities.\n\nCoro New York Leadership Center also conducts Immigrant Civic Leadership Program which strengthens the ability of leaders in immigrant communities to mobilize immigrant participation in key decision-making processes.\n\nThe Coro Community Leadership Program offers working professionals and active retirees the opportunity to strengthen their leadership skills, network with a diverse group of Bay Area leaders, and learn about and contribute to community and civic leadership in the Bay Area.\n\nThe Emerging Leaders in Public Affairs (ELPA) program at the Coro Center for Civic Leadership is aimed at positioning participants for increased involvement in the electoral process as ethical and effective candidates, campaign staffers, board members, appointees and/or community advocates.\n\nCoro Southern California’s Health Leadership Program “HLP” is a premier leadership training experience that uses collaborative approaches to prepare a multi-cultural, professionally diverse group of professionals dedicated to improving the quality and accessibility of healthcare in Los Angeles County.\n\nCoro Center for Civic Leadership’s Regional Internship Center strives to increase the number of organizations in Southwestern Pennsylvania offering internships by actively working with employers to develop programs and connect them with potential interns.\n\nIn addition to San Francisco, centers under the Coro umbrella exist in Los Angeles (1957), St. Louis (1972), Kansas City (1975), New York (1980), and Pittsburgh (1999). In 2005, Coro partnered with the Cleveland Foundation to establish a new Executive Fellows program in Cleveland. Although each location is independently-run, they are connected by Coro National, a 501(c)(3) governing body. The Coro National Alumni Association is also a freestanding non-profit (incorporated 1990) that supports nearly 10,000 alumni worldwide.\n\nApproximately 1,000-1,200 people participate in Coro's various programs each year, many of whom work in non-profit organizations, businesses, and government agencies. Some notable alumni who currently hold or have held public office include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5273666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5273666", "title": "Cultural liberalism", "text": "Cultural liberalism\n\nCultural liberalism is a liberal view of society that stresses the freedom of individuals from cultural norms and in the words of Thoreau is often expressed as the right to \"march to the beat of a different drummer\".\n\nCultural liberals believe that society should not impose any specific code of behavior and they see themselves as defending the moral rights of nonconformists to express their own identity however they see fit, as long as they do not harm anyone. The culture wars in politics are generally disagreements between cultural liberals and cultural conservatives, as cultural liberals are strongly opposed to censorship or any kind of oversight of spoken or written material. They believe that the structure of one's family and the nature of marriage should be left up to individual decision and they argue that as long as one does no harm no lifestyle is inherently better than any other. Because cultural liberalism expresses the social dimension of liberalism, it is often referred to as \"social liberalism\", but is not the same as the political ideology known as social liberalism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1984685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1984685", "title": "Democratic Party of Turks", "text": "Democratic Party of Turks\n\nThe Turkish Democratic Party (, Demokratska Partija na Turcite; ) is a political party of the Turkish minority in the Republic of Macedonia.\nThe Party has been a part of the VMRO-DPMNE coalition for 10 years.\nThe Party currently has one member, Yusuf Hasani, in the Macedonian parliament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14878998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14878998", "title": "Denial of the Holodomor", "text": "Denial of the Holodomor\n\nDenial of the Holodomor (, ) is the assertion that the 1932–1933 Holodomor, a man-made famine in Soviet Ukraine, did not occur or diminishing the scale and significance of the famine.\nThis denial and suppression of information about the famine was made in official Soviet propaganda from the very beginning until the 1980s. It was supported by some Western journalists and intellectuals. It was echoed at the time of the famine by some prominent Western journalists, including Walter Duranty and Louis Fischer. The denial of the man-made famine was a highly successful and well orchestrated disinformation campaign by the Soviet government. According to Robert Conquest, it was the first major instance of Soviet authorities adopting the Big Lie propaganda technique to sway world opinion, to be followed by similar campaigns over the Moscow Trials and denial of the Gulag labor camp system.\n\nOnly in the post Soviet era, independent Ukraine has officially condemned the Holodomor as an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. The causes, nature, and extent of the Holodomor remain topics of controversy and active scholarship, including the debate over whether or not it constitutes genocide.\n\nThe Soviet leadership undertook extensive efforts to prevent the spread of any information about the famine by keeping state communications top secret and taking other measures to prevent word of the famine from spreading. When Ukrainian peasants traveled north to Russia seeking bread, Joseph Stalin and Vyacheslav Molotov sent a secret telegram to the party and provincial police chiefs with instructions to turn them back, alleging Polish agents were attempting to create a famine scare. OGPU chairman Genrikh Yagoda subsequently reported that over 200,000 peasants had been turned back.\n\nStalin's wife, Nadezhda Allilueva, learned about the famine from Ukrainian students at the technical school she was attending. Allilueva complained to Stalin, who then ordered the OGPU to purge all the college students who had taken part in collectivization.\n\nSoviet head-of-state Mikhail Kalinin responded to Western offers of food by telling of \"political cheats who offer to help the starving Ukraine,\" and commented, \"Only the most decadent classes are capable of producing such cynical elements.\"\n\nIn an interview with Gareth Jones in March 1933, Soviet Foreign Minister Maxim Litvinov stated, \"Well, there is no famine\", and went on to say, \"You must take a longer view. The present hunger is temporary. In writing books you must have a longer view. It would be difficult to describe it as hunger.\"\n\nOn instructions from Litvinov, Boris Skvirsky, embassy counselor of the recently opened Soviet Embassy in the United States, published a letter on January 3, 1934, in response to a pamphlet about the famine. In his letter, Skvirsky stated that the idea that the Soviet government was \"deliberately killing the population of the Ukraine\" \"wholly grotesque.\" He claimed that the Ukrainian population had been increasing at an annual rate of 2 percent during the preceding five years and asserted that the death rate in Ukraine \"was the lowest of that of any of the constituent republics composing the Soviet Union\", concluding that it \"was about 35 percent lower than the pre-war death rate of tsarist days.\"\n\nMention of the famine was criminalized, punishable with a five-year term in the Gulag labor camps. Blaming the authorities was punishable by death.\n\nThe true number of dead was concealed. At the Kiev Medical Inspectorate, for example, the actual number of corpses, 9,472, was recorded as only 3,997. The GPU was directly involved in the deliberate destruction of actual birth and death records, as well as the fabrication of false information to cover up information regarding the causes and scale of death in Ukraine. Similar falsifications of official records were widespread.\n\nThe January 1937 census, the first in 11 years, was intended to reflect the achievements of Stalin's rule. It became evident that population growth particularly in Ukraine failed to meet official targets—evidence of the mortality resulting from the famine and from associated indirect demographic losses. Those collecting the data, senior statisticians with decades of experience, were arrested and executed, including three successive heads of the Soviet Central Statistical Administration. The census data itself was locked away for half a century in the Russian State Archive of the Economy.\n\nThe subsequent 1939 census was organized in a manner that certainly inflated data on population numbers. It showed a population figure of 170.6 million people, manipulated so as to match the numbers stated by Joseph Stalin in his report to the 18th Congress of the All-Union Communist Party that March. No other census in the Soviet Union was conducted until 1959.\n\nThe Soviet Union denied the existence of the famine until its 50th anniversary, in 1983, when the worldwide Ukrainian community coordinated famine remembrance. The Ukrainian diaspora exerted significant pressure on the media and various governments, including the United States and Canada, to raise the issue of the famine with the government of the Soviet Union.\n\nWhile the Soviet government admitted that some peasantry died, it also sought to launch a disinformation campaign, in February 1983, to blame drought. The head of the directorate for relations with foreign countries for the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), A. Merkulov, charged Leonid Kravchuk, the chief ideologue for the Communist Party in Ukraine, with finding rainfall evidence for the Great famine. This new evidence was to be sent to the Novosti press centers in the U.S. and Canada, denouncing the \"antidemocratic base of the Ukrainian bourgeois Nationalists, the collaboration of the Banderists and the Hitlerite Fascists during the Second World War.\" Kravchuk's inquiry into the rainfalls for the 1932-1933 period found that they were within normal parameters. Nevertheless, the official position regarding drought did not change.\n\nIn February 1983, Alexander Yakovlev, the Soviet Ambassador to Canada, in a secret analysis \"Some thoughts regarding the advertising of the Ukrainian SSR Pavilion held at the International Exposition \"Man and the world\" held in Canada\" put forward a prognosis for a campaign being prepared to bring international attention to the Ukrainian Holodomor which was spearheaded by the Ukrainian nationalist community. Yakovlev proposed a list of concrete proposals to \"neutralise the enemy ideological actions of the Ukrainian bourgeoise nationalists\".\n\nBy April 1983, the bureau of the Soviet Novosti Press Agency had prepared and sent out a special press release denying the occurrence of the 1933 famine in Ukraine. This press release was sent to every major newspaper, radio and television station as well as University in Canada. It was also sent out to all members of the Canadian parliament.\n\nOn July 5, 1983 the Soviet Embassy issued an official note of protest regarding the planned opening of a monument in memory of the victims of the Holodomor in Edmonton attempting to smear the opening of the monument.\n\nIn October 1983, the World Congress of Ukrainians led by V-Yu Danyliv attempted to launch an international tribunal to judge the facts regarding the Holodomor. At the 4th World Congress of Ukrainians held in December 1983, a resolution was passed to form such an international tribunal.\n\nFormer Ukrainian president Leonid Kravchuk recalled that he was responsible for countering the Ukrainian Diaspora's public education campaign of the 1980s, marking 50 years of the Soviet terror famine in 1983: \" In the early 1980s many publications began appearing in the Western press on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of one of the most horrific tragedies in the history of our people. A counter-propaganda machine was put into motion, and I was one of its wheels.\" The first book on the famine was published in Ukraine only in 1989, after a major shake-up that occurred in the Communist Party of Ukraine when Volodymyr Ivashko replaced Volodymyr Shcherbytsky and the Political Bureau decided that such book could be published. However, even in this book, \"the most terrifying photographs were not approved for print, and their number was reduced from 1,500 to around 350.\"\n\nThe United States Congress created the Commission on the Ukraine famine in 1986. Soviet authorities were correct in their expectation that the commission would lay responsibility for the famine on the Soviet state.\n\nUltimately, as President of Ukraine, Kravchuk exposed the official cover-up attempts and came out in support of recognizing the famine, named the \"Holodomor\". as genocide.\n\nAccording to Patrick Wright, Robert C. Tucker, Eugene Lyons, Mona Charen and Thomas Woods one of the first Western Holodomor deniers was Walter Duranty, the winner of the 1932 Pulitzer prize in journalism in the category of correspondence, for his dispatches on Soviet Union and the working out of the Five Year Plan. While the famine was raging, he wrote in the pages of \"The New York Times\" that \"any report of a famine in Russia is today an exaggeration or malignant propaganda\", and that \"there is no actual starvation or deaths from starvation, but there is widespread mortality from diseases due to malnutrition.\"\n\nDuranty was well aware of the famine. He said in private to Eugene Lyons and reported to the British Embassy that the population of Ukraine and Lower Volga had \"decreased\" by six to seven million. However, in his reports, Duranty downplayed the impact of food shortages in Ukraine. As Duranty wrote in a dispatch from Moscow in March 1933, \"Conditions are bad, but there is no famine... But—to put it brutally—you can't make an omelet without breaking eggs.\"\n\nDuranty also wrote denunciations of those who wrote about the famine, accusing them of being reactionaries and anti-Bolshevik propagandists. In August 1933, Cardinal Theodor Innitzer of Vienna called for relief efforts, stating that the Ukrainian famine was claiming lives \"likely... numbered... by the millions\" and driving those still alive to infanticide and cannibalism. \"The New York Times\", August 20, 1933, reported Innitzer's charge and published an official Soviet denial: \"in the Soviet Union we have neither cannibals nor cardinals\". The next day, the Times added Duranty's own denial.\n\nBritish journalist Malcolm Muggeridge (who went hopefully to live in the \"New Civilization\" in 1932, but soon became disillusioned) said of Duranty that he \"always enjoyed his company; there was something vigorous, vivacious, preposterous, about his unscrupulousness which made his persistent lying somehow absorbing.\" Muggeridge characterised Duranty as \"the greatest liar of any journalist I have met in 50 years of journalism.\" Others have characterized Duranty as \"the number one Useful Idiot for Lenin first, and later for Stalin.\"\n\nCampaigns were launched in 1986 for the retraction of the Pulitzer Prize given to \"The New York Times\". The newspaper, however, declined to relinquish it, arguing that Duranty received the prize for his reporting several years before the occurrence of the famine. While conceding that Duranty's coverage of the famine has since been \"largely discredited\", the \"Times\" noted that: \"Duranty's cabled dispatches had to pass Soviet censorship, and Stalin's propaganda machine was powerful and omnipresent. Duranty's analyses relied on official sources as his primary source of information, accounting for the most significant flaw in his coverage - his consistent underestimation of Stalin's brutality.\"\n\nSome historians consider Duranty's reports from Moscow to be crucial in the decision taken by President Franklin D. Roosevelt to grant the Soviet Union diplomatic recognition in 1933. Bolshevik Karl Radek said that was indeed the case.\n\nProminent British writers who visited the Soviet Union in 1934, such as George Bernard Shaw and H. G. Wells, are also on record as denying the existence of the famine in Ukraine.\n\nIn 1934 the British Foreign Office in the House of Lords stated that there was no evidence to support the allegations against the Soviet government regarding the famine in Ukraine, based on the testimony of Sir John Maynard, a renowned famine expert who visited Ukraine in the summer of 1933 and rejected \"tales of famine-genocide propagated by the Ukrainian Nationalists\".\n\nThe height of denial was reached during a visit to Ukraine carried out between August 26 and September 9, 1933, by French Prime Minister Édouard Herriot, who denied accounts of the famine and said that Soviet Ukraine was \"like a garden in full bloom\". The day before his arrival, all beggars, homeless children and starving people were removed from the streets. Shop windows in local stores were filled with food, but purchases were forbidden, and anyone coming too close to the stores was arrested. The streets were washed. Just like all other Western visitors, Herriot met fake \"peasants\", all selected Communists or Komsomol members, who showed him healthy cattle. Herriot declared to the press that there was no famine in Ukraine, that he did not see any trace of it, and that this showed adversaries of the Soviet Union were spreading the rumour. \"When one believes that the Ukraine is devastated by famine, allow me to shrug my shoulders\", he declared. The September 13, 1933 issue of \"Pravda\" was able to write that Herriot \"categorically contradicted the lies of the bourgeoisie press in connection with a famine in the\nUSSR.\"\n\nThe lack of knowledge of the famine was observed by English writer George Orwell, who commented that \"huge events like the Ukraine famine of 1933, involving the deaths of millions of people, have actually escaped the attention of the majority of English Russophiles\". In 1945, Orwell wrote, \"[I]t was considered equally proper to publicise famines when they happened in India and to conceal them when they happened in the Ukraine. And if this was true before the war, the intellectual atmosphere is certainly no better now.\" Nigel Colley has written on the influence of the Ukrainian famine, and the Holodomor denial of Duranty, on Orwell's book \"Animal Farm\".\n\nIn the 1980s the Soviet Communist Party approached the Canadian Communist Party to engage journalist Douglas Tottle to prepare counter-propaganda materials under the title \"Fraud, Famine and Ukrainian Fascism\". Before final publication, the official reviewers of the tome in Kiev suggested that the name of the book be changed, as stated in their explanation \"Ukrainian fascism never existed\".\nIn 1987, Tottle published his controversial book as \"Fraud, Famine, and Fascism: the Ukrainian Genocide Myth from Hitler to Harvard\", in which he asserts that claims the Holodomor was an intentional genocide are \"fraudulent\", and \"a creation of Nazi propagandists\". His book, published by \"Progress Publishers\" in Toronto, appeared around the same time Ukrainian Communist party leader Volodymyr Shcherbytsky publicly acknowledged the famine, in December 1987. As a result, the book was subsequently withdrawn from circulation. In a review of Tottle's book in the \"Ukrainian Canadian Magazine\", published by the pro-Communist Association of United Ukrainian Canadians, Wilfred Szczesny wrote: \"Members of the general public who want to know about the famine, its extent and causes, and about the motives and techniques of those who would make this tragedy into something other than what it was will find Tottle's work invaluable\" (\"The Ukrainian Canadian\", April 1988, p. 24). Some of Tottle's material appeared in a 1988 article in the \"Village Voice\", \"In Search of a Soviet Holocaust: A 55-Year-Old Famine Feeds the Right\".\n\nIn 1988 the International Commission of Inquiry Into the 1932–33 Famine in Ukraine was set up to establish whether the famine existed and its cause. Tottle was invited by the commission to attend the hearings, however he ignored the request. While the commission was organized along judicial lines, it had no judicial power to compel witnesses to attend or testify. However Tottle's book was examined during the Brussels sitting of the commission, held between May 23–27, 1988, with testimony from various expert witnesses. The commission president Professor Jacob Sundberg subsequently concluded that Tottle was not alone in his enterprise to deny the famine on the basis that material included in his book could not have been available to a private person without official Soviet assistance.\n\nThe issue of the Holodomor has been a point of contention between Russia and Ukraine, as well as within Ukrainian politics. According to opinion polls, Russia has experienced an increase in pro-Stalin sentiments since the year 2000, with over half viewing Stalin favourably in 2015. Since independence, Ukrainian governments have passed a number of laws dealing with the Holodomor and the Soviet past, with the latest being the \"Decommunization laws\" of 2015. The Russian government does not recognize the famine as an act of genocide against Ukrainians, viewing it rather as a \"tragedy\" that affected the Soviet Union as a whole. A 2008 letter from Russian president Dmitry Medvedev to Ukrainian president Viktor Yushchenko asserted that the famine \"was not targeted at extermination of any single nation\", and accused Ukraine of exploiting it for political ends. In November 2010 a leaked confidential U.S. diplomatic cable revealed that Russia had allegedly pressured its neighbors not to support the designation of the Holodomor as a genocide at the United Nations. According to another leaked document, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov described Israel's recognition of the Holodomor as \"historical revisionism\".\n\nIn 2006, the All-Ukrainian Public Association \"Intelligentsia of Ukraine for Socialism\" published a pamphlet titled \"The Myth of the Holodomor\" by G. S. Tkachenko. The pamphlet claimed that Ukrainian Nationalists and the US government were responsible for creating the \"myth.\" Russian publicist Yuri Mukhin has a published a book titled \"Hysterical Women of the Holodomor\", dismissing Holodomor as \"Russophobia\" and \"a trump card of the Ukrainian Nazis.\" Sigizmund Mironin's \"Holodomor in the Rus\" argued that the cause of the famine was not Stalin's policies, but rather the chaos engendered by the New Economic Policy.\n\nRussian state media ran several articles denying the severity and causes of the Ukrainian famine.\n\nOn November 28, 2006, Ukraine's parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, passed a law recognizing the 1932–1933 Holodomor as an act of genocide against the Ukrainian people. The voting figures were as follows: supporting the bill were BYuT—118 deputies, NSNU—79 deputies, Socialists—30 deputies, 4 independent deputies, and the Party of Regions—2 deputies (200 deputies did not cast a vote). The Communist Party of Ukraine voted against the bill. In all, 233 deputies supported the bill—more than the minimum of 226 votes required to pass it into law.\n\nA draft law \"On Amendments to the Criminal and the Procedural Criminal Codes of Ukraine\" was submitted by President Viktor Yushchenko for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. The draft law envisaged prosecution for public denial of the Holodomor Famine of 1932–1933 in Ukraine as a fact of genocide of the Ukrainian people, and of the Holocaust as the fact of genocide of the Jewish people. The draft law foresaw that public denial as well as production and dissemination of materials denying the above shall be punished by a fine of 100 to 300 untaxed minimum salaries, or imprisonment of up to two years. The draft law, however, failed to receive support from incoming President Viktor Yanukovych, who, following his inauguration in 2010, declared: \"it would be wrong and unfair to recognize the Holodomor as an act of genocide against one nation\"—this among a number of actions seen as his pursuing a more Russocentric policy. However, in 2011 he stated: \"Terrible years of totalitarianism have been a spiritual catastrophe: numerous churches were demolished, hundreds of thousands of peasants, workers, and intellectuals were physically eliminated or sent to the Gulag camps, almost every Ukrainian family suffered,\" and in 2012 affirmed: \"This crime has changed the history of Ukrainian people forever. It has been one of the severest challenges of Ukrainians. Holodomor not only killed people, but also had the purpose of causing fear and obedience.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1937834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1937834", "title": "Draining law", "text": "Draining law\n\nThe draining law or Belgian dry up law (droogleggingswet) refers to a controversial law passed by the Belgian Federal Parliament in 2005 to cut funding by the federal state to \"undemocratic\" parties. Due to restrictions against campaign donations from private groups or individuals, Belgian political parties rely mostly on the state for funding.\n\nAlthough the term \"draining law\" usually refers to the law passed in 2005, there are actually two so-called \"draining laws\":\n\nThe law of 12 February 1999 inserted an article 15ter in the law regarding party financing which states that if a political party by its own effort or by the effort of its components, lists, candidates or elected officials, clearly and with several similar signs, shows that it is hostile towards the rights and liberties guaranteed under the European Convention on Human Rights, it can be stripped of its funding by the Council of State. This is why in French, the law is also referred to as the \"law to cut funding to anti-liberty parties\" (\"loi permettant de priver les partis liberticides de leur financement\"). However, this provision could not be implemented until the passage of the law of 17 February 2005.\n\nAt the present time an attempt to use the law would most likely be made against the far-right Flemish party Vlaams Belang. A Belgian court ruled in 2004 that the party's predecessor Vlaams Blok had encouraged discrimination against foreigners. According to the party's supporters, both the 2004 conviction and the current bill are political actions by their opponents.\n\nAfter the Supreme Court ruling, the leadership of the VB seized the occasion to dissolve itself, and start afresh under a new name.[14] On 14 November, the Vlaams Blok thus disbanded itself, and the Vlaams Belang was established. The Vlaams Belang instituted a number of changes in its political program, carefully moderating some of the more radical positions of the former Vlaams Blok.[15] Nevertheless, the party leader Frank Vanhecke made it clear that the party would fundamentally remain the same; \"We change our name, but not our tricks. We change our name, but not our programme.\"[8]\n\nFormer Vlaams Blok chairman Frank Vanhecke was chosen as chairman of the Vlaams Belang on 12 December 2004.[16] Like its predecessor, the Vlaams Belang has continued to be subjected to the cordon sanitaire, wherein all the traditional Flemish parties has agreed to systematically exclude the party, and never form a coalition with it. This situation was however altered slightly with the emergence of the smaller right-wing party List Dedecker (founded in 2007), which has not joined in on the agreement.[17] In an interview with the popular weekly Humo, Flemish Prime Minister Yves Leterme for instance declared that a local chapter of his Christian Democratic and Flemish party (CD&V) that would form a coalition or close agreements with the Vlaams Belang, would no longer be considered part of the CD&V.[18]\n\nThe VB contested the 2006 municipal elections on the theme of \"Secure, Flemish, Liveable\". The VB enjoyed a massive increase of votes, and its council members almost doubled, from 439 to about 800. The election result was described by the party as a \"landslide victory.\"[19] In Antwerp, the VB's vote count ran behind that of the Socialist Party, which increased their share of the vote dramatically.[19] Nevertheless, the VB, which was in a coalition with the minor VLOTT party, slightly increased their vote in the city to 33.5%.[19] In the 2007 general election, the party won 17 seats in the Chamber of Representatives and five seats in the Senate, remaining more or less at status quo. Earlier the same year, the party joined the short-lived European Parliament group Identity, Tradition and Sovereignty alongside parties such as the French National Front.[20]\n\nIn 2008, Bruno Valkeniers was chosen as new party chairman for the VB, having contested the position unopposed.[21] In 2009, the party contested elections for the Flemish Parliament and the European Parliament. The party was reduced from 32 to 21 seats (from the Vlaams Blok's record 24%, to 15%) in the Flemish parliament, and from three to two seats in the European parliament. In the 2010 general election, the party was again reduced, to 12 seats in the Chamber, and three in the Senate. This was largely due to the great success of the more moderate new party New Flemish Alliance, which also campaigned on Flemish independence.[22] After the party suffered heavy losses during the local elections of 2012 Bruno Valkeniers stepped down as party chairman and was succeeded by Gerolf Annemans.\n\nIn the 2014 federal and regional elections the party again suffered a big loss and was reduced to 5.9% of the Flemish vote. The European list, pulled by Annemans, scored slightly better with 6.8%. Annemans resigned as party leader, a function he only performed for two years, and argued for a rejuvenation of the party. The following party chairman election was won by the only candidate, the then 28 years old Tom Van Grieken.\n"}
{"id": "27148578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27148578", "title": "Emine Erdoğan", "text": "Emine Erdoğan\n\nEmine Erdoğan (born Emine Gülbaran; 21 February 1955) is the wife of President of Turkey Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and the First Lady of Turkey.\n\nEmine Erdoğan was born in Üsküdar, Istanbul. She is of Arab descent, her family comes from the south-eastern province of Siirt and the youngest child of a family of five children. She attended Mithat Paşa Akşam Art School, but left before graduation.\n\nErdoğan joined the \"Idealist Women's Association\". During these activities she met Recep Tayyip Erdoğan at a conference. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan and Emine Gülbaran married on 4 February 1978. The couple has four children: Ahmet Burak Erdoğan, Sümeyye, who married defense industrialist engineer Selçuk Bayraktar in May 2016, Necmettin Bilal, and Esra.\n\nOn 7 December 2010, Prime Minister of Pakistan Syed Yousaf Raza Gilani conferred the Pakistani Nishan-e-Pakistan on Emine Erdoğan, in recognition of her efforts for the flood-stricken people of Pakistan. In October 2010, Erdoğan visited Pakistan and the flood hit areas to witness the devastation caused by the floods and contributed significantly in the fund-raising campaign to help the country’s flood victims.\n\nOn 16 February 2011, Emine Erdoğan was presented with the \"Prix de la Fondation\" by the Crans Montana Forum at a ceremony in Brussels.\n\nFirst Lady Erdogan has played an active role in opposing child marriage, stating clearly that \"Forced child marriage is clearly unacceptable under any conditions\".\n"}
{"id": "10142885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10142885", "title": "European Documentation and Information Centre", "text": "European Documentation and Information Centre\n\nThe European Documentation and Information Centre, abbreviated CEDI (), was a former think tank founded in 1952 on the occasion of an international congress held in Santander, Spain. The objective of the organization was to unite various European conservative and Christian Democratic political organizations which formed in several Western European states during postwar reconstruction, the emerging Cold War and the beginnings of what would later be called European integration. During the 1950s and the 1960s, the CEDI was an important contact pool for European politicians. During its early years the CEDI's ideology and program was dominated by its first president, Otto von Habsburg, son of the last emperor of Austria. It was dissolved in 1990 following the collapse of the Iron Curtain.\n\nThe Franco regime in Spain made use of the CEDI to get in contact with high-ranking persons of the political, military, economic and cultural life from Western Europe and thus end its post-war international isolation. By preaching the necessity of cultural exchange and the religious unity of the occident, the CEDI aimed at a political, military and economic inclusion of Spain into the beginning process of European Integration.\n\nThe annual congresses of the CEDI, which were nearly always held in Spain, brought together many office bearers and dignitaries of the conservative milieu. Besides the Spanish initiators – hereunder Franco’s foreign minister Alberto Martín Artajo, the director of the Institute for Hispanic Culture Alfredo Sánchez Bella and José Ignacio Escobar Kirkpatrick Marqués de Valdeiglesias – there was a strong support for CEDI’s activities in Germany, Austria and France. The expelled Austrian Heir Apparent Otto von Habsburg was the founding and, later on, honorary president of the organization. Germany was represented by high-ranking members of the Christian Democratic and Christian Social Union of Bavaria parties, as for example the ministers Hans-Joachim von Merkatz and Richard Jaeger. The French section of the Documentation Centre was led by the Count François de la Noë and Michel Habib-Deloncle.\n\nAmong the first British supporters were William Teeling, Sir Frederick Corfield MP and Sir John Rodgers MP, who even held CEDI’s international presidency from 1965 to 1967. Over the years, the Austrian secretary general Georg von Gaupp-Berghausen turned more and more out to be the actual organizational and programmatic head of the Documentation Centre.\n\nBesides the proclaimed Catholic Christian heritage, the traditional connections of the European upper nobility, military contacts and common economic interests, it was above all a virulent anticommunism which was tying together the members of the Documentation Centre. The scientific lectures given at the annual meetings of the CEDI dealt with questions of principle concerning European Integration, the Cold War and other subjects of social and international relevance.\n\nApart from Spain, Germany and France, national sections emerged in and Belgium and Austria, some years later also in Liechtenstein, Switzerland, Sweden and Portugal. In Britain, the conservative \"March Club\" fulfilled the tasks of a national section since the beginning of the 1960s. Among the most prominent members of this British section were apart from Teeling, Corfield and Rodgers, Peter Agnew and Geoffrey Rippon who both were to become international presidents of the CEDI later on. It seems quite likely that the contacts provided by the Documentation Centre played a not unimportant role in negotiating Britain’s entry into the European Community, since Rippon was the head of the British government’s delegation.\n\nWhen the CEDI became a civil law association in 1957, its head office was officially moved to Munich, Madrid remaining nevertheless a central branch office of the organization.\nWith General Charles de Gaulle returning to the political stage in 1958, his fellows transformed the CEDI into an international forum in order to diffuse their conceptions of European politics. The cooperation between French Gaullists and German Christian Democrats has also been prepared by CEDI’s initiatives.\n\nThe Gaullist engagement weakening by the end of the 1960s, Spanish influence in the Documentation Centre increased again. CEDI evolved into an instrument of Spanish interests in Latin America, reached out for Africa and Asia, and finally turned toward the domain of development policies.\n\nNevertheless, the organization had transgressed the zenith of its diplomatic activities. The urgent necessity of recruiting new members was perceived, but the CEDI did not find any solution to solve these problems. The political transformation process in Spain by the middle of the 1970s deprived the CEDI of its last material and organizational basics.\n\n"}
{"id": "30968304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30968304", "title": "Family Emergency Shelter Coalition", "text": "Family Emergency Shelter Coalition\n\nThe Family Emergency Shelter Coalition (FESCO) is a non-profit organization in Hayward, California which aims to provide shelter, transitional housing and support services for families and children in Alameda County.\n\nAccording to greatnonprofits.org's nationwide ranking among shelter homes, FESCO was the only homeless shelter in the East Bay to get a top ranking.\n\nBy 2006, FESCO claimed to provide 24 Shelter beds, as well as support services including hot meals and housing readiness activities.\n\nAlso, they are listed under the directory of National Coalition for the Homeless.\n\nThe organization incorporated in 1986. Its main purpose was to keep families together during their homelessness period. After a restoration of two-story home, they started to begin serving homeless families in 1988 as a shelter which can accommodate 8-10 families at a time. After the first year, Fesco started to provide support services to homeless families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43465526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43465526", "title": "Former Soviet Union Demilitarization Act of 1992", "text": "Former Soviet Union Demilitarization Act of 1992\n\nFormer Soviet Union Demilitarization Act of 1992, §§ 5901-5931, is a United States Federal law created to coordinate disarmament efforts with the former Soviet Union. The Act, better known as the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993, provided legislative authority for the United States Department of Defense supporting armament retooling, chemical demilitarization, and nonproliferation initiatives.\n\nThe H.R. 5006 Act of Congress acknowledged the current geopolitical events of the early 1990s with respect to the collapse of communism, dissolution of the Soviet Union, events of the Berlin Wall, and the Gulf War. Title XIV — Demilitarization of the Former Soviet Union was passed by the 102nd U.S. Congressional session and enacted by George H.W. Bush on October 23, 1992.\n\nThe Former Soviet Union Demilitarization Act was authored as five subtitles providing authority, facilitation logistics, and U.S. federal funding for allocations of the Act. \n\nTitle XIV is cited as the Former Soviet Union Demilitarization Act of 1992\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28157430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28157430", "title": "Freedom and Prosperity Party", "text": "Freedom and Prosperity Party\n\nThe Freedom and Prosperity Party, formerly known as No Carbon Tax Climate Sceptics and The Climate Sceptics, were an Australian political party that describes itself as the world's first political party representing climate sceptics, dedicated to \"...expose the fallacy of anthropogenic climate change\".\n\nThe party was registered with the Australian Electoral Commission in early 2010, and endorsed candidates to stand in the 2010 federal election. Prior to being registered, party supporters stood as independent candidates in the Bradfield and Higgins by-elections.\n\nThe party endorsed 10 candidates for the Senate, and 6 for the House of Representatives in the 2010 elections. None were successful.\n\nThe Climate Sceptics Party position on what they call climate alarmism is\n\n\nThe Climate Sceptics Party's policy on the Australian government's proposed emissions trading scheme, the Carbon Pollution Reduction Scheme (CPRS), is that the CPRS will result in Australian industry being at a competitive disadvantage leading to rising prices, that the CPRS will also cause corruption and fraud and the curtailing of human freedoms.\n\nOn 13 July 2009, approximately 30 members of the Climate Sceptics Party and supporters arrived at the venue where Al Gore, was speaking in Melbourne, to hand out leaflets for those attending, with questions to ask Al Gore during his speech. Some wore T-shirts bearing the party's slogan: \"Carbon Really Ain't Pollution - CRAP\".\nIn 2010 the Climate Sceptics organised a tour of Australia by Lord Monckton at a cost of $100,000.\n\nThe party's name on the Australian Electoral Commission's register was changed to \"No Carbon Tax Climate Sceptics\" on 14 December 2011.\n\nThe party has been involved in Glenn Druery's Minor Party Alliance.\n\nIn April 2015 the party was deregistered by the Australian Electoral Commission for a failure to demonstrate the required 500 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "48652803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48652803", "title": "Friedrich Glasl's model of conflict escalation", "text": "Friedrich Glasl's model of conflict escalation\n\nFriedrich Glasl's model of conflict escalation assists in the analysis of conflicts. Appropriate reactions can be derived from this analysis. The model has nine stages – in contrast to the earlier model of Kurt R. Spillmann, which describes five distinct stages of escalation. These stages are grouped into three levels, which each contain three stages.\n\nGlasl represents \"escalation in his nine stage model not as an ascent to higher and higher stages of escalation, but as a descent to deeper and deeper, more primitive and more inhuman forms of dispute... [which] inevitably leads into regions that evoke great 'inhuman energies' which are not ultimately amenable to human control or restraint.\" In the first level both parties can still win (win–win). In the second level one of the parties loses and the other wins (win–lose), and in the third level both parties lose (lose–lose).\n\nMany different kinds of conflict can be thus analysed: divorces, conflicts between colleagues and school children, and also conflicts between states.\n\nConflicts start with tensions, e.g. the occasional clash of opinions. This is a common occurrence and is not perceived as the start of a conflict. However, if a conflict should result the positions become more fundamental. The conflict could have deeper causes.\n\nFrom now on the conflict parties consider strategies to convince the counterparty of their arguments. Differences of opinion lead to a dispute. The parties try to put each other under pressure and think in terms of black and white.\n\nThe conflict parties increase the pressure on each other in order to assert their own opinion. Discussions are broken off. No more verbal communication takes place and the conflict is increasingly acerbated. Sympathy for \"them\" disappears.\n\nThe conflict is acerbated by the search for sympathisers for one's cause. Believing one has right on one's side, one can denounce the opponent. The issue is no longer important: one has to win the conflict so that the opponent loses.\n\nThe opponent is to be denigrated by innuendo and the like. The loss of trust is complete. Loss of face means in this sense the loss of moral credibility.\n\nThe conflict parties try to gain absolute control by issuing threats which demonstrate their own power. One threatens, for example, with a \"demand\" (10 million euros) which is enforced by a \"sanction\" (\"otherwise I′ll blow up your main building\") and underlined by the \"potential for sanction\" (showing the explosive). The proportions decide the credibility of the threat.\n\nOne tries to severely damage the opponent with all the tricks at one's disposal. The opponent is no longer regarded as human. From now on, limited personal loss is seen as a gain if the damage to the opponent is greater.\n\nThe opponent is to be annihilated by all means.\n\nFrom this point personal annihilation is accepted in order to defeat the opponent.\n\nThe model describes how two parties in a conflict behave. Solutions leading to de-escalation are not immediately apparent in this model, particularly when it appears to both conflict parties impossible to reverse the situation (e.g. an aggressive act on the territory of a state, separation of a common child from the other parent, withdrawal of nationality by a state, mass redundancy to improve shareholder value), or when one party selects conflict escalation as a strategic ploy.\n\nTo achieve de-escalation Glasl assigns the following strategic models to the different stages of escalation:\n\nThe ability to recognise and eliminate conflict-nourishing forces in a culturally neutral and non-judgemental fashion in order to de-escalate a conflict is highly advantageous in particular for managers, consultants and social workers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14922816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14922816", "title": "Geneva Centre for Security Policy", "text": "Geneva Centre for Security Policy\n\nThe Geneva Centre for Security Policy (GCSP) is an international foundation that was established in 1995 under Swiss law to \"promote the building and maintenance of peace, security and stability\". The GCSP was founded by the Federal Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sports in cooperation with the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs as a Swiss contribution to Partnership for Peace (PfP).\n\nGCSP's headquarters are in Geneva, Switzerland in the maison de la paix building (the \"house of peace\"), which is owned by the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies. It shares the building with the Graduate Institute, the Geneva International Centre for Humanitarian Demining (GICHD), and the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of Armed Forces (DCAF). It is the main element of the \"campus de la paix\" (the \"campus of peace\").\n\nGCSP's core activity is the provision of executive education and training in comprehensive international peace and security policy for mid-career diplomats, military officers, and civil servants from foreign, defence, and other relevant ministries, as well as from international organisations. Participants in GCSP courses come from countries of the Euro-Atlantic Partnership Council, NATO's Mediterranean Dialogue, the Istanbul Cooperation Initiative, and beyond, including South and East Asia and Africa. In addition to its three long-term courses (each lasting from three to nine months) offered in Geneva, the GCSP also offers tailor-made courses in Geneva, New York City, Dakar, Amman, Baku, Addis Ababa, Yerevan and Sarajevo.\n\nGCSP's work focuses on regional development, emerging security challenges, leadership, and crisis and conflict management.\n\nThe GCSP's governing body is the Foundation Council, which consists of representatives of 48 member states and the Canton of Geneva. The chairman of the Foundation Council is François Heisbourg. The director of the GCSP is Christian Dussey.\n\nThe Swiss government is the principal contributor to GCSP's budget. Other council members, partner states, and institutions also support the GCSP by seconding faculty, funding scholarships, and contributing to other aspects of the centre's activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19311414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19311414", "title": "Green municipalism", "text": "Green municipalism\n\nGreen municipalism refers to the encouragement of environmentalism from the municipal, rather than state or national basis.\n\nIt has been discussed by Brian Milani in his book, \"Designing the Green Economy\" (2000). and by the Syracuse / Onondaga County Green Party Chapter at the US National Green Gathering of August 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22280062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22280062", "title": "Howard Teicher", "text": "Howard Teicher\n\nHoward Teicher served as Director for the Near East and South Asia and Senior Director for Political-Military Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council from 1982 to 1987, after working under Presidents Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan at the Departments of State and Defense.\n\nTeicher received his BA in Political Science, summa cum laude and Phi Beta Kappa, from Boston University in 1976. He received a Masters in International Affairs from Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies in 1978. Teicher is currently Vice President with Radware.\n\nHe is the co-author of \"Twin Pillars To Desert Storm: America's Flawed Vision in the Middle East from Nixon to Bush\".\n"}
{"id": "999661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=999661", "title": "Lal Nishan Party", "text": "Lal Nishan Party\n\nLal Nishan Party (Red Flag Party, LNP) was a communist political party in the Indian state of Maharashtra.\n\nLNP's main work was trade union activism. The trade union of the party was called Sarva Shramik Sangh (SSS).\n\nThe party publication was called \"Nave Parva\". Earlier, SSS published a Marathi daily newspaper from Pune called \"Shramik Vichar\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, LNP developed a close cooperation with Kamgar Aghadi.\n\nIn 1988, a split occurred when a hardline section, critical of the Perestroika, broke away and formed Lal Nishan Party (Leninvadi).\n\nLNP participated in the Confederation of Indian Communists and Democratic Socialists.\n\nIn 2017 August, LNP merged with the Communist Party of India.\n"}
{"id": "20351183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20351183", "title": "Land court", "text": "Land court\n\nLand Court or Land claims court is a type of court which is charged with dealings over cases involving land titles and for disputes between landlords and tenants relating to agricultural tenancies. The exact field of jurisdiction varies by country.\n\nThe Land Claims Court of the Republic of South Africa was established in 1995 and has the same status as the High Courts of that country. The court specializes in hearing disputes that arise out of laws that underpin South Africa's land reform initiative. These are the Restitution of Land Rights Act, 1994, the Land Reform (Labour Tenants) Act, 1996 and the Extension of Security of Tenure Act, 1997.This is in line with the South African Constitution which gave people and communities who had been dispossessed of land after 19 June 1913 as a result of racially discriminatory laws or practices the right to restitution of that property or to fair compensation. The Court also fulfils an important function in reviewing certain decisions of inferior courts.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12389034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12389034", "title": "Lei Maria da Penha", "text": "Lei Maria da Penha\n\nBrazil's Federal Law 11340, also known as \"Lei Maria da Penha\" (Portuguese: ], \"Maria da Penha Law\") targets gender based violence in Brazil, with the specific aim of reducing domestic violence in the country. Sanctioned on August 7, 2006 by former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva and subsequently implemented on September 22, 2006, the law is an important contribution to an international movement of criminalizing violence against women. The name of the law is an homage to the Brazilian activist Maria da Penha Maia, a former victim of domestic violence. \n\nViolence against women, specifically domestic violence, remains a pervasive issue in Latin America. Domestic violence can be defined as, “physical, sexual, and verbal aggression…typical of machismo and a way to strengthen men's power within the household, especially if they feel economically insecure.” Domestic violence is a systemic issue in Brazil with a 2015 government survey stating that \"over 70% of the Brazilian female population will suffer some kind of violence throughout their lifetime.\" According to the Fórum Brasileiro de Segurança Pública, 66% of Brazilian men have perpetrated violence against a woman in his community and 70% of Brazilian women identified as having experienced some form of violence in a public space before the age of 24. In early 2017, an in-depth examination of gender based violence in Brazil determined that only a quarter of women who experience violence by the hands of an intimate partner report incidents to the authorities Despite strong statistical evidence supporting widespread violence against women in Brazilian households, few legal initiatives existed in Brazil to challenge this systematic violence against women. Until 2009, domestic abuse could be dismissed by the court if the woman was not deemed to be  “honest.” \n\nIn 2006, with intense media focus on the high profile case of Maria da Penha, the Brazilian government created the Maria da Penha Law (named in da Penha’s honor) in an attempted response to international criticism. Over the course of her 23 year marriage, Maria da Penha was domestically abused by her husband, resulting in da Penha becoming paraplegic after two murder attempts. Following these events, da Penha, along with the Center for Justice for International Law (CEJIL) and the Latin American Committee for the Defense of Women's Rights (CLADEM), spent the next twenty years fighting her husband through the Brazilian legal system; da Penha filed a complaint with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, emphasizing the need for the state to intervene in combating gender based violence in the country.\n\nThe Maria da Penha law aims to reduce domestic violence mainly by increasing punishment for domestic abuse offenders, increasing the maximum detention time from one to three years, establishing domestic violence courts and requiring Brazilian authorities to institute 24 hour shelters for victims of household domestic abuse. The law specifically states that domestic violence between same-sex partners and domestic abuse perpetrated by woman towards a man in a heterosexual relationship also constitute punishable crime. Additionally, the law provides protective measures to the victim, empowering judges to temporary restraining orders.\n\nIn February 2012, the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the Maria da Penha law, ruling that prosecutors “may bring domestic violence cases regardless of whether the victim presses charges or not.” \n\nWith the implementation of the Maria da Penha Law, Brazil arguably has one of the most progressive pieces of legislation addressing domestic violence in Latin America. According to the Institue of Applied Economic Research (Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada), the \"Lei Maria da Penha\" has had a positive impact in reducing domestic violence against women in Brazil, with their study showing a 10% decrease in projected domestic homicides rates since 2006 (xxx). While statistical evidence supports the positive impacts of the law in Brazil, many in Brazil still feel more must be done to address high levels of domestic violence in the country.\n\nThose critical of the effectiveness of the law point to failures in the law’s implementation. Speaking to these concerns, Brazil director at Human Rights Watch, Maria Laura Canineu said, “ The Maria da Penha law was a major step forward, but more than a decade later, implementation remains woefully inadequate throughout much of the country.” More specifically, these shortcomings include the failure of police to follow procedure when a woman reports an incident of violence, the practice of demanding women undergo invasive medical procedures to prove abuse, the lack of a private space for the victim to share a testimony, and the failure to carry out protection orders against offenders. Additionally, political turmoil in Brazil has defunded many government programs protecting domestic violence victims, specifically women of color from low socio-economic classes who are already denied access to adequate health and legal services. This is also observed in limited access to the special units established by the law; most special units are located only in major Brazilian cities, isolating women in rural areas of the country and causing them to travel long distances for help. In addition to the logistical issues that remain, the culture of machismo in Brazil continues to stand as a major barrier for women seeking justice. \"Crimes that occurred inside the house are, in general, consider less serious than those committed in the public sphere. The cultural acceptance of domestic violence aggravated this problem.” da Penha herself has been outspoken and critical about the effectiveness of the law, stating, “The problem is not the law but in its application…” \n\n"}
{"id": "54028210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54028210", "title": "List of memorials to Woodrow Wilson", "text": "List of memorials to Woodrow Wilson\n\nThis is a list of memorials to Woodrow Wilson, 28th president of the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53627953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53627953", "title": "Mauro Merlino", "text": "Mauro Merlino\n\nMauro Merlino (born December 14, 1969) is a social and political activist in Modena, Italy whose work has gained international notoriety for his peaceful movements, and set freedom of speech precedents in Italian court of law regarding social media.\n\nMauro Merlino known for his Italian public protest against tax giant Equitalia circa 2013-2016 which turned into a \"David and Golitath\" court case of Italy. This is due to the fact Merlino created a YouTube video gone viral about the tax collection office, which is Italy's version of the IRS. Equitalia differs in that it has exorbitant tax rates and compounded fines imposed if taxes are unpaid. In the forty second video he stated in his own opinion that Equitalia could incite suicide to citizens due to their high tax rates and heavy collection tactics. His \"I will sell a kidney just to pay my taxes\" slogans went viral, being picked up by mainstream media. Soon after the video went viral it was removed from YouTube, and a libel \"defamation\" lawsuit brought upon him. Merlino fought back in social media with a lawsuit that took several years to be brought to court in Modena. Merlino's victory against former President of Equitalia, Attilo Befera, was widely publicized, setting a precedent for Italian freedom of speech and opinion on social media outlets. and gaining him much notoriety in his hometown of Modena.\n\nMerlino appeared on Quinta Colonna, (Fifth Column) a popular talk show on Mediaset one of Italy's main television stations discussing his case and peaceful protest. During this protest, he was joined by political activists including the Five Star Movement. Merlino had gone on a hunger strike, wore a Guy Fawkes mask and a coffin was set on fire, which created much publicity for the case.\n\nLater, MediaSet studios would make a small miniseries of his trials and tribulations regarding the case on the show \"Striscia La Notizi\" (Strictly News).\n\nMerlino served as President of the Italian \"Gay Harvey Milk Association\" for several years circa 2012 protesting gay, lesbian, and transgender rights for Italy. To this day, his work is recognized and followed by gay and lesbian groups in Europe.\n\nIn August 2016, Merlino started dressing as superhero Spider-Man to protest the lack of support and aid given to the financial crisis of Italy. He started walking the squares of the towns first in hometown of Sassuolo, and other regions such as Reggio Emilia. to bring awareness to the financial crisis of Italy. During this process he helped a local business owner at the Manhattan Coffee Bar protest a $5000 Euro fine imposed by the police for installment of video cameras to protect his business. A fundraiser was organized by Merlino of which over 100 people attended and donated to raise money for the fine, so the bar owner could stay in business.\n\nBy late August 2016, attention was diverted to the victims of the 2016 6.2 Earthquakes impacting central Italy (namely the Amatrice region). He began marching in the squares of several towns, and ended up trekking over 300 miles to bring solidarity to the victims by suggesting a \"smile iniative\" for the children impacted. Protests took place in Modena,with the help of other superheros and Mantua (Mantova). Later, he would travel to the Earthquake zone in the snow,talking to the mayor of Rieti.\n\nHe was said to have walked 300 miles to the Earthquake site with other superheroes, and even climbed buildings of which his story gained international attention in the United States originally published in The Local\nvia the New York Post and Italian Tribune.\n\nHis protest in Mantua (Italians refer to this city as Mantova) in March 2017 was highly publicized, gained him front page news and a special segment of how Spider-Man brings bring smiles to the children who have been impacted by the earthquake. The video outlined a day in the life of Spider-Man in the City of Mantua. The newspaper edition compared the activist's peaceful methods to Gandhi's methods calling him a \"Gandhian protestor\".\n\nMerlino tried to pose as a reporter just to enter the Ferrari Factory gates to join the Renzi-Merkel summit but he was prevented by security, however the stunt gained him much media attention for his political protests. and gained him much notoriety in his town of Modena.\n\nMerlino's non profit The Voice of the Unheard, or as called in Italian \"LA VOCE DEGLI INASCOLTATI\" primarily focuses on civil, social, and disability issues. Projects included stem cell research, unemployed citizens, and protests for the financial crisis in Italy.\n\nMerlino was born in Lucca, Italy. He currently resides in Sassuolo, a commune of Fiorano, Modena.\n\n"}
{"id": "29345762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29345762", "title": "Ministry of Health (Soviet Union)", "text": "Ministry of Health (Soviet Union)\n\nThe Ministry of Health (MOH) of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (USSR) (), formed on 15 March 1946, was one of the most important government offices in the Soviet Union. It was formerly (until 1946) known as the People's Commissariat for Health (). The Ministry, at the all-Union level, was established on 6 July 1923, after the signing of the Treaty on the Creation of the USSR, and was, in turn, based upon the People's Commissariat for Health of the RSFSR formed in 1917. The Ministry was led by the Minister of Health, prior to 1946 a Commissar, who was nominated by the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and confirmed by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet, and was a member of the Council of Ministers.\n\nThe main duties of the ministry were to develop and to prepare these for legislation and to maintain a decent level of health organisation in the USSR. The ministry missariat monitored and supervised the application of standards and measures to improve Soviet health care. According to the July 1936 decree establishing the People's Commissariat for Health, the commissariat had control over all financial assets related or linked to health care. As such, the ministry controlled all financial functions regarding health. It coordinated medical personnel all over the country, but also local council deputies. MOH was obliged to take active measures against deficiencies in the health care system, and to further develop and implement measures to improve it.\n\nThe MOH, with the help of other ministries and Soviet institutions, was responsible for the construction of new medical institutions around the country. Maintenance of hospital and other medical institutions were carried out by the MOH and the State Committee for Construction. According to the Regulations on the Ministry of Health of the USSR, MOH was responsible for maintenance and the construction of public health care services, and organising and conducting forensic medical and forensic psychiatric examination and establishing public pharmaceutical services. It was also assigned to develop and publish guidelines on organising and improving curative and preventive care, maternal and child health and to oversee the formulation of therapeutic and preventive work in health care.\n\nThe competence of the MOH within the jurisdiction of the USSR was periodically reviewed by the Council of Ministers.\n\nThe Ministry of Health was an all-union ministry, which meant that it controlled the fifteen ministries of health of the union republics. The union health ministries, in turn, were in charge of the autonomous oblasts and district health departments. The union ministries, along with the oblasts and the district health departments, were in control of the public hospitals and medicine in their area.\n\nA July 1936 decree by the Central Executive Committee and the Council of People's Commissars established the People's Commissariat for Health. Grigory Kaminsky, having served as People's Commissar for Health of the RSFSR, became the first commissar of the all-union commissariat for health. Kaminsky was arrested in 1938 after his speech in 1937 which denounced the ongoing stalinist repression in the country (Great Purge). In a very short period of time since the formation of the commissariat, the diseases and viruses which had for a long time been a major problem had been eliminated. In 1946, the People's Commissariat for Health was renamed Ministry of Health.\n\nThe following persons headed the Commissariat/Ministry as commissars (narkoms), ministers, and deputy ministers of the Soviet time:\n\n"}
{"id": "36400947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36400947", "title": "NNN lease", "text": "NNN lease\n\nIn United States real estate business, \"net lease\" is a term used for an arrangement in which the tenant or lessee is responsible for paying, in addition to base rent, some or all of the expenses related to real-estate ownership. These expenses, often called the \"three nets\", are property taxes, insurance, and maintenance. As the rent collected under a net lease is net of expenses, it tends to be lower than rent charged under a gross lease. Net lease types include single net, double net, and triple net leases, with the term \"net lease\" often being used as a shorthand expression for any of these arrangements. A triple net lease (i.e. one that is net of all three of the major expense categories) is often abbreviated in writing as \"NNN lease\", but is still pronounced as \"triple net lease\".\n\nNNN leased investments are generally leased to one single tenant and are thus referred to as STNLs or Single Tenant Net Leases. A NNN lease investment can however have two or more tenants, though it would not be considered an STNL investment. An example of this would be a Starbucks & MetroPCS which share a building under two separate NNN leases, or a retail strip center where all tenants are wrapped into one NNN lease. Both examples would be considered NNN leased investments; however they would not be STNLs. The risk of default is spread out over more than one tenant in such NNN deals (i.e. if either Starbucks or Metro PCS goes bankrupt, the other tenant continues to pay the rent due under their NNN lease). Such deals can appeal to investors seeking to spread risk, though the simplicity of collecting one rent check from one tenant is forfeited.\n\nAnother variation of the NNN lease is the NN lease or \"Net-Net\" lease which is pronounced \"double net\" where the \"net\" amounts generally are property tax and insurance. Double net leases, like triple net leases, are usually, though not always, single-tenant arrangements, however the landlord carries some extra financial maintenance obligation. The term \"Net Lease\" is tossed around loosely in the net lease industry, often used when referring to a triple or double net lease; however there is a definite distinction between a triple net and a double net lease even though some brokers erroneously use the term \"Net Lease\" to describe both. Double net leased investments generally trade at a slightly higher CAP rate than triple net leased investments, because of the maintenance expenses which the landlord is responsible for. Brand new NN Deals with long-term builder warranties covering the roof and sometimes structure can be attractive to investors looking for a higher return.\n\nThough NNN leased investments are considered to be highly risk-averse investments, especially when leased to a national credit tenant, the landlord is still exposed to some financial risk. In the fine print of most NNN leases these risks are specified. For instance, who carries the obligation to rebuild after a casualty (natural disasters included) or whether the tenant must continue paying rent should the property be condemned? In other instances, certain risks (e.g. fluctuations in property taxes) cannot be completely accounted for in the initial contract, forcing the landlord to estimate these costs early on. In this scenario, if the landlord's accountant does not follow through with changing the invoices appropriately, it may cost the landlord thousands of dollars by the end of the taxable year. Although NNN lease investments carry relatively low risk, they require high levels of oversight for these reasons.\n\nIn one variation of a NNN lease contract, the \"bondable NNN lease\" (sometimes referred to as a \"true triple net\" or \"absolute triple net\" lease), the tenant cannot terminate the lease or seek any rent abatements under any circumstances, a provision that mitigates some of the risk for the landlord.\n\nInvestors can benefit from NNN lease properties in a variety of ways. In NNN leases tenants take on the responsibility of major expenses such as HVAC and roof repairs keeping the operation cost lower for the landlord. Typically NNN leases have lower rent per square foot rates which increases the tenant pool when a landlord is ready to lease the property. For specific tenants, landlords will frequently modify leases allowing for greater flexibility and higher tenant retention.\n\nMost investors in today's net lease market prefer an investment that is truly passive, therefore, an absolute net lease is a requirement for many of these investors. Investors prefer to hold these assets long-term, which means there is likely some wear and tear maintenance, as well as a roof that will need to be replaced at some point. With an absolute net lease in, the risk of expenses associated with building maintenance shifts solely to the tenant, allowing the landlord to receive a 100% passive investment.\n\nIn its simplest form, a 1031 exchange is a tax deferral strategy for real estate transactions in which a property owner or investor sells one property and purchases another within a specific time frame. However, the transaction must qualify as a \"like kind\" exchange.\n\nOften a NNN lease will offer a lower monthly rent than a gross lease since the tenant will be responsible for maintaining the building. In a NNN lease tenants are responsible for maintenance and repairs, therefore cost savings for expenses related to operating the building are passed on to the tenant instead of the landlord.\n\nA \"bondable NNN lease\", the most extreme form of a NNN lease investment, is often used incorrectly in the net lease industry when referring to NNN properties which are merely occupied by investment-grade tenants. The tenant's credit rating is a crucial factor which the lender takes into account in their decision to lend on a property and under what terms; however, it is not the characteristic which distinguishes a bondable triple net from a standard triple net lease investment.\nWhen evaluating the value of the credit tenant’s credit, most brokers, and lenders, base their analysis on the credit rating garnered by one of the major credit agencies (Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, Dunn & Bradstreet). Though these ratings are important, they don’t always paint the most accurate picture of a company’s overall performance and future viability. Some brokers offer the services of an in-house stock broker and analyze the credit tenant’s financials and stock performance when the tenant is publicly traded on an exchange. A great deal can be learned by examining the credit tenant’s stock performance in comparison to other industry competitors. Other readily available metrics such as the P/E ratio, PEG ratio, and debt-to-equity ratio can be indicators of a credit tenant’s financial health.\n\nThe value of a net leased investment is determined by the value of the real estate, the value of the credit tenant, and the value of the lease itself.\n\nNNN lease planning is a rich investment tool which provides the investor with many opportunities to navigate an ever-changing market. NNN lease investments are essentially inflation-protected bonds guaranteed by a credit tenant, rather than a state or local municipality. The tenant makes monthly payments to the landlord, while the real estate (and often rent bumps called for in the lease) provides the investor protection against inflation. Bonds have long been a popular investment tool among retirees and high-income earners seeking fixed income without having to pay taxes for years. NNN lease investments provide similar tax advantages as tax-exempt municipal bonds, without forcing the investor to settle for lower yields or opening the investor up to a large capital gains hit. If an investor were to purchase a bond in the secondary market and turn around and sell it for a profit years later, he would have to pay a capital gains tax on the profit, regardless of whether or not the bond is exempt from state income tax. This is not the case when investing in NNN leases because of the fact that although structured like a bond, they are still considered real estate investments and therefore fall under the same tax laws as such which means that they can be depreciated in the same manner as similar income producing commercial real estate. The taxes on the income they generate can be written off or deferred over the life of the asset. The investor of course has to pay said depreciation back when he sells, however this too can be circumvented by evoking a Starker’s 1031 exchange and trading into another like-kind property. NNN leased investments are also financeable allowing the investor to leverage the credit of their tenant and the interest payments would also be a write-off. In addition to the numerous tax benefits, retirees often choose NNN leases when planning their estate or retirement because of the straight forward nature of NNN lease investments. A retiree can achieve long term, guaranteed, fixed income with rental increases from a simple product and their Heirs will not be overwhelmed by the many complications associated with wealth management.\n\nAn off-market NNN property is a NNN property that is available for sale, but not publicly marketed. Many investors and developers prefer off-market transactions for a variety of reasons, one of which is controlling the publicity of the availability of the property, which could create issues with other lease negotiations on other deals. There are several professional commercial real estate brokers that specialize in off-market NNN properties.\n"}
{"id": "40552101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40552101", "title": "New Commonwealth Society", "text": "New Commonwealth Society\n\nThe New Commonwealth was an international organization created in London in 1932 with branches in France and Germany. It advocated pacifism, disarmament and multilateral resolution of conflicts through political lobbying and different publications.\n\nThe New Commonwealth was created in October 1932 in London, with the forme Labour MP George Barnes as its first President, and the French Henry de Jouvenel, the German Ernst Jäckh and the American Oscar T. Crosby as vice-president.</ref>\"First Annual Report of The New Commownealth\", London, The New Commonwwealth, 1933, internal cover.\"First Annual Report of The New Commownealth\", London, The New Commonwwealth, 1933, p.5.</ref>\n\nLater, it defended the creation of an international air force which would act as a military arm of the League of Nations, promoting disarmament and keeping the world's peace. Those promoting the New Commonwealth included the millionaire David Davies, 1st Baron Davies, who became its chairman, others who had taken part in building up the League of Nations Union, and Winston Churchill, who was elected as the organization's president. Ernst Jaeckh was appointed as international director.\n\nIn a speech to the Society in May 1937, Churchill said \n\nSome of the ideas of the New Commonwealth Society were later incorporated into the United Nations Charter.\n\nTo promote its aims, the Society published a monthly, \"The New Commonwealth\", from 1932 to 1950. It also published a quarterly from 1935 to 1943, first named \"New Commonwealth Quarterly\", later renamed the \"London Quarterly of World Affairs\".. Otto Neurath figured in its editorial committee. It also published many pamphlets and books.\n\nPloß, Christoph Johannes, \"Die \"New Commonwealth Society\"\", Stuttgart: Franz Steiner Verlag, 2017.\n"}
{"id": "5599031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5599031", "title": "Ough (orthography)", "text": "Ough (orthography)\n\nOugh is a letter sequence often seen in words in the English language. In Middle English, where the spelling arose, it was pronounced with a back rounded vowel and a velar fricative (e.g., , , , or ). The sequence is ambiguous, having at least eight pronunciations in North American English and nine in British English; its pronunciation depends entirely on its placement in a given word, with the most common being:\n\n\nNote that \"slough\" has three pronunciations depending on its meaning:\n\nAn example sentence using the nine pronunciations commonly found in modern usage (and excluding \"hough\", which is now a rarely-used spelling) is, \"The wind was rough along the lough as the ploughman fought through the snow, and though he hiccoughed and coughed, his work was thorough.\"\n\nOther pronunciations can be found in proper nouns, many of which are of Celtic origin (Irish, Scottish, or Welsh) rather than English. For example, ough can represent in the surname Coughlin, in Ayscough and even in the name Colcolough () in Virginia.\n\nThe two occurrences of in the English place name Loughborough are pronounced differently, resulting in . Additionally, three parishes of Milton Keynes—Woughton , Loughton and Broughton —all have different pronunciations of the combination.\n\n\"Tough\", \"though\", \"through\" and \"thorough\" are formed by adding another letter each time, yet none of them rhyme. \n\nSome humorous verse has been written to illustrate this seeming incongruity:\n\nBecause of the unpredictability of the combination, many English spelling reformers have proposed replacing it with more phonetic combinations, some of which have caught on in varying degrees of formal and informal success. Generally, spelling reforms have been more widely accepted in the United States and less so in other English-speaking areas. One problem is that a pronunciation with the velar fricative is still found locally in parts of North-East Scotland, where, for example, \"trough\" is pronounced .\n\nIn April 1984, at its yearly meeting, the Simplified Spelling Society adopted the following reform as its house style:\n\n\n\nIn the UK, the word \"dough\" can also be pronounced , a pronunciation remembered in the spelling in the word \"duffpudding\". Likewise, the word \"enough\" can be pronounced or and the spelling \"enow\" is an acceptable dialect or poetic spelling (e.g. \"And Wilderness is Paradise enow.\").\n\nThe following spellings are generally considered unacceptable in other areas, but are standard in the United States:\n\nHowever, both of these are considered unacceptable in written British English and formal American English, with the exception of in the most casual and informal forms of textual conversation.\n\n\n is orthographically rather similar to , but admits much less pronunciation variation:\n\nThe similar yields at least five standard pronunciations:\n\n\nDialectal forms also render pronunciations such as \"winder\" , \"yeller\" for \"window\" , \"yellow\" , and \"fella\" , \"tomorra\" for \"fellow\" , \"tomorrow\" .\n\nA comparable group is , which differs however in that, unlike , it does not ever represent a single phoneme. can be pronounced in at least five ways:\n\nWhen a syllable is added after the , the is often (but not always) pronounced, resulting in a total of at least eight pronunciations of :\n—but not, for example, in \"bomber\", \"comber\", \"entombing\", etc.\n\nThe group also has a wide variety of pronunciations, in part because of the two phonemes ( and ) represented in English . Here are seven different pronunciations:\n\n\nThe group has at least nine pronunciations, though unlike with or , context often suggests the correct pronunciation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37761204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37761204", "title": "Petro-sexual politics", "text": "Petro-sexual politics\n\nPetro-sexual politics is a lens used to better understand the relationships between petroleum and gender violence and the role colonial powers possess. The underlying theme of petro-sexual politics is that gender violence is part of a larger political economy of violence. Petro-sexual politics can yield new methods of theorizing global politics, particularly as explained here for the Nigerian case of the \"natural resource curse\". \nTypically petro-violence is lumped together with the term ethnic conflict. These conflicts have deep colonial roots driving them. These colonial powers label conflicts with terms such as \"terrorist activity\" or \"gang violence\" in order to retain colonial power and maintain global hierarchies and inequality within a region. As colonial powers control local politics, occurrences of domestic violence and other forms of gender violence can be observed. A Western view of domestic violence skews the ability of the population to see that this domestic violence is not simply occurring at the personal level. \nAccording to Turcotte, there is a common ground between petroleum production and gender-sexual violence. These factors have been used as machines of war and the framework for nation building. Justification of sexual violence in times of war allows for the mutual existence of the state and petroleum industry. The state's growth is fueled solely by the growth of the petroleum industry in the region, thus leading to the existence of petro-sexual politics.\n\nTransnational and African feminism argues that the nation-state relies upon capitalist and colonial violence. The production of petroleum in the Niger Delta is a direct result of colonial endeavors. This colonization has directly imposed social arrangements and altered the pre-colonial population, creating a new population under colonial-imperial regulation. According to Turcotte, gender violence, a precursor to colonization, was vital to colonization itself. The United Kingdom, controlling oil production in the area, was able to impose imperial rule onto the colony. Once Nigeria gained its independence in 1960, colonial ideals were still held in place.\nWhile the Nigerian Civil War (also known as the Biafran War) is often thought of as a civil war, the colonial roots that caused much of the tension leading to the conflict cannot be ignored. Scholars have suggested that this conflict illustrates the link between gender violence and petroleum. Emecheta depicts a war in which sexual violence was used as a tactic of regulation. These regulations shared a direct correlation to the protection of local oil investments. Through this example, the Nigerian Civil War can be seen as a moment when sexual violence was ultimately utilized to protect the oil industry and is a prime example of petro-sexual political actions.\n\nThe Niger Delta was considered a terrorist region in 2000 by the United States State Department. Following this declaration, US military funding to the region greatly increased to protect off-shore extraction and production of oil. This action has raised questions of whether or not the U.S. intended to eradicate the terrorist threats or simply protect its oil investments. Turcotte suggests that this violence in the Niger Delta region is brought about by the promotion of capitalist democracy through interstate systems.\nIn the 1990s, the discourse around conflict in the Delta increasing focus on male youth groups activity against the industry as \"militant attacks\"; by 2000, these men were translated into terrorists by the interstate system. The history of protests in Nigeria suggests that petro-protest developed from strategies of community justice within women's organizations often supported by male youth groups.\n\nAccording to Watts, oil has seven properties that aid in the explanation as to why violence is often found in areas of petroleum extraction.\nIn the instance of the Niger Delta, constant exploitation from international oil companies distorted the pre-colonial views of the region. This distortion has led to violence in the region. Over 2,000 deaths have occurred as a direct result of this episode.\n\n\"Blood may be thicker than water, but oil is thicker than both.\" —Perry Anderson, \"Scurrying toward Bethlehem\" \n\nPrior to colonial institutions, females headed the Nigerian villages. Nigerian women were leaders of the palm oil industry that dominated the region prior to the conversion to petroleum. Due to the fact that these women were seen as reproducers and heads of the family, if instance of abuse were seen, the women could threaten to leave. However, once petroleum was taken as the region's main resource, the women rapidly lost this power.\nHanna exemplifies different types of protests commonly utilized by Nigerian women: dance, song and nakedness.\n\n\"Women's protests consist of storming en masse into the compounds of offending men and holding a man 'hostage' by dancing, singing and threatening their nakedness on him.\"\nWomen's protest during the colonial era has been numerous given their social status prior to colonization. Even with these protests, violence against women persisted as global oil initiatives grew in the region. The increasing oil economy of the Delta not only affected the physical well-being of the women in the area, but also affected their livelihoods. Local fishing industries and food staples have all been compromised due to oil-related pollution.\n\nAs instances of female-led non-violent protests increase, so does militant-based political activism among the male populace. The variance in protest from violent and non-violent actions has called the legitimacy of the protests into question. Ultimately, imperial labeling of these protests as \"terrorist activities\" perpetuates the existence of the oil companies and regional violence that accompanies the oil industry's presence.\n\nIt seems that these non-violent protests led by community women's organizations have been the most successful in bringing about awareness of the issue to the UN and other grass-roots organizations. Through continued use of non-violent protests, the women of the region have been able to establish credibility to their claims that had been previously disregarded as a result of violence and counter-violence in the area.\n\nOne source of violent protest to the petro-sexual politics that currently hold the Niger Delta under imperial power lies with the Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND). The militant group is driven to violent protests by pollution, marginalization and political repression.\n\nAs previously noted, the violence in the region between militant groups such as MEND and the government-controlled military can be attributed to economic inequality, the legacy of colonialism, and the lack of a democratic government. Courson also notes that the gap in wealth in the Niger Delta has grown significantly since foreign oil companies have impacted the region. MEND emerged onto the resistance scene late in 2005 after attacking two Shell pipelines. From the beginning, MEND attempted to make its intentions clear; it did not want to combat the people of the region or the oil companies, but the oppressive economy that held the people of the Delta in poverty. To gain media attention, MEND took two western nationals hostage. However, the retaliation by the government was not what the MEND resistance had hoped. An increase in military presence led to human rights abuse, rape, and the destruction of communities, all in the name of fighting MEND, which has earned the title \"terrorist\" by the Nigerian government. However, Bushra states that labeling resistance efforts as terrorist acts does not look far enough into the reasons why groups such as MEND have been forced to take up arms. Bushra continues in saying that MEND's response was necessary due to the fact that previous peace negotiations had failed.\n\nThroughout this conflict, MEND has called for international intervention and refutes the terrorist tags that they have been labeled with, saying they fight for survival and equality. Individuals such as Brusha and Courson believe that military retaliation is not the answer to the problems that petro-sexual politics have imposed on the region. Further violence will lead to additional implications facing the marginalized women and youth that have been objectified as vessels of war in this conflict.\n"}
{"id": "376511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376511", "title": "Political status", "text": "Political status\n\nIn international law three categories of Political status are usually recognized:\n\n\nThere are, furthermore, several unrecognized countries and independence, secessionist, autonomy and nationalist movements throughout the world. See list of unrecognized countries.\n\nPolitical Status was an alternative name for Special Category Status.\n\n"}
{"id": "26711497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26711497", "title": "Provisional Government of Bangladesh", "text": "Provisional Government of Bangladesh\n\nThe Provisional Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh was established following the declaration of independence of East Pakistan on 10 April 1971. It was the supreme leadership of the Bangladeshi liberation movement. It included the first cabinet of Bangladesh; the nascent Bangladeshi diplomatic corps; the Constituent Assembly of Bangladesh; the Mukti Bahini military, paramilitary and guerrilla forces; and the Independent Bangladesh Radio.\n\nThe provisional government was formed in the town of Mujibnagar (formerly Baidyanathtala). Its capital in exile was Calcutta, the capital of the Indian state of West Bengal and the former capital of British India, which hosted thousands of Bangladeshi refugees escaping the 1971 genocide. The provisional government included many defectors from the Pakistani government, foreign service and military; as well as leading intellectuals and cultural figures from East Pakistan. Its chief executive was Tajuddin Ahmad, the first Bangladeshi Prime Minister.\n\nA worldwide campaign was undertaken by the Provisional Government to garner support for Bangladesh's independence, genocide victims and refugees. It appointed special envoys and operated representative missions in New Delhi, Washington D.C. and London among many other cities.\n\nThe provisional government was established in the town on Baidyanathtala in Meherpur, Kushtia District. Its leaders were administered their oaths at a mango orchard near the site of the Battle of Plassey, in which the British defeated the last independent Nawab of Bengal in 1757.\nThe legal basis of the Bangladeshi provisional government was provided by the proclamation of independence issued on 10 April 1971, which served as the interim constitution of Bangladesh until 1972. It declared that Pakistan failed to convene its elected representatives for framing a new constitution on 3 March 1971; and instead launched an \"unjust and treacherous war\", a reference to the 1971 Bangladesh genocide. As a result, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, described as the undisputed leader of the 75 million people of East Pakistan, fulfilled aspirations for self-determination by declaring Bangladesh's independence on 26 March 1971.\n\nThe proclamation declared Bangladesh as a People's Republic with equality, human dignity and social justice as its fundamental principles.\n\nThe interim constitution converted elected Bengali members of Pakistan's national and provincial assemblies into members of the Constituent Assembly of Bangladesh.\n\nThe military wing of the provisional government was the Mukti Bahini. The Bangladeshi liberation guerrillas were based in camps on the East Pakistan-India border. In December, it joined Indian forces as part of a combined Bangladesh-Indian allied offensive against Pakistan, which resulted in victory.\n\nMany Bengali members of the Civil Service of Pakistan defected to the government of Bangladesh. Dr. Kamal Uddin Siddiqui, Nurul Kader Khan, S. A. Samad, Khondker Asaduzzaman, Dr. Sa'dat Hussain and Dr. Akbar Ali Khan were early leaders of the newly formed Bangladesh Civil Service. The provisional government established an elaborate structure of administrative departments. Yusuf Ali and J. G. Bhowmik served as the chief Relief Commissioners for Bangladeshi refugees. The noted artist Quamrul Hassan served as Director of Art and Design. Calcutta and Agartala were the main centres of the government-in-exile.\n\nThe Swadhin Bangla Betar Kendra served as the cultural propaganda wing of the Bangladeshi provisional government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1268562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268562", "title": "Purified water", "text": "Purified water\n\nPurified water is water that has been mechanically filtered or processed to remove impurities and make it suitable for use. Distilled water has been the most common form of purified water, but, in recent years, water is more frequently purified by other processes including capacitive deionization, reverse osmosis, carbon filtering, microfiltration, ultrafiltration, ultraviolet oxidation, or electrodeionization. Combinations of a number of these processes have come into use to produce ultrapure water of such high purity that its trace contaminants are measured in parts per billion (ppb) or parts per trillion (ppt). Purified water has many uses, largely in the production of medications, in science and engineering laboratories and industries, and is produced in a range of purities. It can be produced on site for immediate use or purchased in containers. Purified water in colloquial English can also refer to water which has been treated (\"rendered potable\") to neutralize, but not necessarily remove contaminants considered harmful to humans or animals.\n\nPurified water is usually produced by the purification of drinking water or ground water. The impurities that may need to be removed are:\n\nDistilled water is produced by a process of distillation and has an electrical conductivity of not more than 11 µS/cm and total dissolved solids of less than 10 mg/litre. Distillation involves boiling the water and then condensing the vapor into a clean container, leaving solid contaminants behind. Distillation produces very pure water. A white or yellowish mineral scale is left in the distillation apparatus, which requires regular cleaning. Distilled water, like all purified water, must be stored in a sterilized container to guarantee the absence of bacteria. For many procedures, more economical alternatives are available, such as deionized water, and are used in place of distilled water.\n\nDouble-distilled water (abbreviated \"ddHO\", \"Bidest. water\" or \"DDW\") is prepared by slow boiling the uncontaminated condensed water vapor from a prior slow boiling. Historically, it was the de facto standard for highly purified laboratory water for biochemistry and used in laboratory trace analysis until combination purification methods of water purification became widespread.\n\nDeionized water (\"DI water\", \"DIW\" or \"de-ionized water\"), often synonymous with \"demineralized water / DM water\", is water that has had almost all of its mineral ions removed, such as cations like sodium, calcium, iron, and copper, and anions such as chloride and sulfate. Deionization is a chemical process that uses specially manufactured ion-exchange resins, which exchange hydrogen and hydroxide ions for dissolved minerals, and then recombine to form water. Because most non-particulate water impurities are dissolved salts, deionization produces highly pure water that is generally similar to distilled water, with the advantage that the process is quicker and does not build up scale. However, deionization does not significantly remove uncharged organic molecules, viruses or bacteria, except by incidental trapping in the resin. Specially made strong base anion resins can remove Gram-negative bacteria. Deionization can be done continuously and inexpensively using electrodeionization.\n\nThree types of deionization exist: co-current, counter-current, and mixed bed.\n\nCo-current deionization refers to the original downflow process where both input water and regeneration chemicals enter at the top of an ion exchange column and exit at the bottom. Co-current operating costs are comparatively higher than counter-current deionization because of the additional usage of regenerants. Because regenerant chemicals are dilute when they encounter the bottom or finishing resins in an ion exchange column, the product quality is lower than a similarly sized counter-flow column.\n\nThe process is still used, and can be maximized with the fine tuning of the flow of regenerants within the ion exchange column.\n\nCounter-current deionization comes in two forms, each requiring engineered internals:\n\nIn both cases, separate distribution headers (input water, input regenerant, exit water, and exit regenerant) must be tuned to: the input water quality and flow, the time of operation between regenerations, and the desired product water analysis.\n\nCounter-current deionization is the more attractive method of ion exchange. Chemicals (regenerants) flow in the opposite direction to the service flow. Less time for regeneration is required when compared to cocurrent columns. The quality of the finished product can be as low as .5 parts per million. The main advantage of counter-current deionization is the low operating cost, due to a low usage of regenerants during the regeneration process.\n\nMixed bed deionization is a 50/50 mixture of cation and anion resin combined in a single ion exchange column. With proper pretreatment, product water purified from a single pass through a mixed bed ion exchange column is the purest that can be made. Most commonly, mixed bed demineralizers are used for final water polishing to clean the last few ions within water prior to use. Small mixed bed deionization units have no regeneration capability. Commercial mixed bed deionization units have elaborate internal water and regenerant distribution systems for regeneration. A control system operates pumps and valves for the regenerants of spent anions and cations resins within the ion exchange column. Each is regenerated separately, then remixed during the regeneration process. Because of the high quality of product water achieved, and because of the expense and difficulty of regeneration, mixed bed demineralizers are used only when the highest purity water is required.\n\nDemineralization is often a term used interchangeably with deionization. Demineralization is essentially removing all the minerals that can be found in natural water. This process is usually done when the water will be used for chemical processes and the minerals present may interfere with the other chemicals. All chemistic and beauty products have to be made with demineralized water for this reason. With the demineralization process, the water is \"softened\" replacing the undesired minerals with different salts (NaCl). Demineralized water has a higher conductivity than deionized water.\n\nOther processes are also used to purify water, including reverse osmosis, carbon filtration, microporous filtration, ultrafiltration, ultraviolet oxidation, or electrodialysis. These are used in place of, or in addition to, the processes listed above. Processes rendering water potable but not necessarily closer to being pure HO / hydroxide + hydronium ions include the use of dilute sodium hypochlorite, ozone, mixed-oxidants (electro-catalyzed HO + NaCl), and iodine; See discussion regarding potable water treatments under \"Health effects\" below.\n\nPurified water is suitable for many applications, including autoclaves, hand-pieces, laboratory testing, laser cutting, and automotive use. Purification removes contaminants that may interfere with processes, or leave residues on evaporation. Although water is generally considered to be a good electrical conductor—for example domestic electrical systems are considered particularly hazardous to people if they may be in contact with wet surfaces—\"pure\" water is a poor conductor. The conductivity of sea-water is typically 5 S/m, drinking water is typically in the range of 5-50 mS/m, while highly purified water can be as low as 5.5 μS/m (0.055 µS/cm), a ratio of about 1,000,000:1,000:1.\n\nPurified water is used in the pharmaceutical industry. Water of this grade is widely used as a raw material, ingredient, and solvent in the processing, formulation, and manufacture of pharmaceutical products, active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) and intermediates, compendial articles, and analytical reagents. The microbiological content of the water is of importance and the water must be regularly monitored and tested to show that it remains within microbiological control.\n\nPurified water is also used in the commercial beverage industry as the primary ingredient of any given trademarked bottling formula, in order to maintain critical consistency of taste, clarity, and color. This guarantees the consumer complete reliability of safety and drinking-satisfaction of their favorite refreshment, no matter where in the world it has been bottled. In the process prior to filling and sealing, individual bottles are always rinsed with deionised water to remove any particles that could cause a change in taste.\n\nDeionised and Distilled water are used in lead-acid batteries to prevent erosion of the cells, although Deionised water is the better choice as more impurities are removed from the water in the creation process.\n\nTechnical standards on water quality have been established by a number of professional organizations, including the American Chemical Society (ACS), ASTM International, the U.S. National Committee for Clinical Laboratory Standards (NCCLS) which is now CLSI, and the U.S. Pharmacopeia (USP). The ASTM, NCCLS, and ISO 3696 or the International Organization for Standardization classify purified water into Grade 1–3 or Types I–IV depending on the level of purity. These organizations have similar, although not identical, parameters for highly purified water.\n\nNote that the European Pharmacopeia uses Highly Purified Water (HPW) as a definition for water meeting the quality of Water For Injection, without however having undergone distillation. In the laboratory context, highly purified water is used to denominate various qualities of water having been \"highly\" purified.\n\nRegardless of which organization's water quality norm is used, even Type I water may require further purification depending on the specific laboratory application. For example, water that is being used for molecular-biology experiments needs to be DNase or RNase-free, which requires special additional treatment or functional testing. Water for microbiology experiments needs to be completely sterile, which is usually accomplished by autoclaving. Water used to analyze trace metals may require the elimination of trace metals to a standard beyond that of the Type I water norm.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Requires use of 0.2 μm membrane filter\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki>Prepared by distillation\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki>Requires the use of 0.45 μm membrane filter\n\nA member of the ASTM D19 (Water) Committee, Erich L. Gibbs, criticized ASTM Standard D1193, by saying \"Type I water could be almost anything – water that meets some or all of the limits, part or all of the time, at the same or different points in the production process.\"\n\nThe electrical conductivity of ultra-pure water is 5.5 × 10 S/m (18 MΩ·cm in the reciprocal terms of electrical resistivity) and is due only to H and OH ions produced in the water dissociation equilibrium. This low conductivity is only achieved, however, in the presence of dissolved monatomic gases. Completely de-gassed ultrapure water has a conductivity of 1.2 × 10 S/m, whereas on equilibration to the atmosphere it is 7.5 × 10 S/m due to dissolved CO in it. The highest grades of ultrapure water should not be stored in glass or plastic containers because these container materials leach (release) contaminants at very low concentrations. Storage vessels made of silica are used for less-demanding applications and vessels of ultrapure tin are used for the highest-purity applications. It is worth noting that, although electrical conductivity only indicates the presence of ions, the majority of common contaminants found naturally in water ionize to some degree. This ionization is a good measure of the efficacy of a filtration system, and more expensive systems incorporate conductivity-based alarms to indicate when filters should be refreshed or replaced. For comparison, sea water has a conductivity of perhaps 5 S/m (53 mS/cm is quoted), while normal un-purified tap water may have conductivity of 5 mS/m (50 μS/cm) (to within an order of magnitude), which is still about 2 or 3 orders of magnitude higher than the output from a well-functioning demineralizing or distillation mechanism, so low levels of contamination or declining performance are easily detected.\n\nSome industrial processes, notably in the semiconductor and pharmaceutical industries, need large amounts of very pure water. In these situations, feedwater is first processed into purified water and then further processed to produce ultrapure water.\n\nDistilled or deionized water is commonly used to top up the lead-acid batteries used in cars and trucks and for other applications. The presence of foreign ions commonly found in tap water will drastically shorten the lifespan of a lead-acid battery.\n\nDistilled or deionized water is preferable to tap water for use in automotive cooling systems.\n\nUsing deionised or distilled water in appliances that evaporate water, such as steam irons and humidifiers, can reduce the build-up of mineral scale, which shortens appliance life. Some appliance manufacturers say that deionised water is no longer necessary.\n\nPurified water is used in freshwater and marine aquariums. Since it does not contain impurities such as copper and chlorine, it helps to keep fish free from diseases, and avoids the build-up of algae on aquarium plants due to its lack of phosphate and silicate. Deionized water should be re-mineralized before use in aquaria, since it lacks many macro- and micro-nutrients needed by plants and fish.\n\nWater (sometimes mixed with methanol) has been used to extend the performance of aircraft engines. In piston engines, it acts to delay the onset of engine knocking. In turbine engines, it allows more fuel flow for a given turbine temperature limit, and increases mass flow. As an example, it was used on early Boeing 707 models. Advanced materials and engineering have since rendered such systems obsolete for new designs; however, spray-cooling of incoming air-charge is still used to a limited extent with off-road turbo-charged engines (road-race track cars).\n\nDeionized water is very often used as an \"ingredient\" in many cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, where it is sometimes referred to as \"aqua\" on product ingredient labels; see International Nomenclature of Cosmetic Ingredients.\n\nBecause of its high relative dielectric constant (~80), deionized water is also used (for short durations, when the resistive losses are acceptable) as a high voltage dielectric in many pulsed power applications, such as the Sandia National Laboratories Z Machine.\n\nDistilled water can be used in PC watercooling systems and Laser Marking Systems. The lack of impurity in the water means that the system stays clean and prevents a buildup of bacteria and algae. Also, the low conductance reduces the risk of electrical damage in the event of a leak.\n\nWhen used as a rinse after washing cars, windows, and similar applications, purified water dries without leaving spots caused by dissolved solutes.\n\nDeionized water is used in water-fog fire-extinguishing systems used in sensitive environments, such as where high-voltage electrical and sensitive electronic equipment is used. The 'sprinkler' nozzles use much finer spray jets than other systems, and operate at up 35 MPa (350 bar; 5,000 psi) of pressure. The extremely fine mist produced takes the heat out of a fire rapidly, and the fine droplets of water are nonconducting (when deionized) and are less likely to damage sensitive equipment. Deionized water, however, is inherently acidic and contaminants (such as copper, dust, stainless and carbon steel, and many other common materials) rapidly supply ions, thus re-ionizing the water. It is not generally considered acceptable to spray water on electrical circuits that are powered, and it is generally considered undesirable to use water in electrical contexts.\n\nDistilled or purified water is used in humidors to prevent cigars from collecting bacteria, mold, and contaminants, as well as to prevent residue from forming on the humidifier material.\n\nWindow cleaners using water-fed pole systems also use purified water because it enables the windows to dry by themselves leaving no stains or smears. The use of purified water from water-fed poles also prevents the need for using ladders and therefore ensure compliance with Work at Height Legislation in the UK.\n\nDistillation removes all minerals from water, and the membrane methods of reverse osmosis and nanofiltration remove most, or virtually all, minerals. This results in demineralized water, which has not been proven to be healthier than drinking water. The World Health Organization investigated the health effects of demineralized water in 1980, and its experiments in humans found that demineralized water increased diuresis and the elimination of electrolytes, with decreased serum potassium concentration. Magnesium, calcium and other nutrients in water can help to protect against nutritional deficiency. Recommendations for magnesium have been put at a minimum of 10 mg/L with 20–30 mg/L optimum; for calcium a 20 mg/L minimum and a 40–80 mg/L optimum, and a total water hardness (adding magnesium and calcium) of 2–4 mmol/L. At water hardness above 5 mmol/L, higher incidences of gallstones, kidney stones, urinary stones, arthrosis, and arthropathies have been observed. For fluoride, the concentration recommended for dental health is 0.5–1.0 mg/L, with a maximum guideline value of 1.5 mg/L to avoid dental fluorosis.\n\nWater filtration devices are becoming increasingly common in households. Most of these devices do not distill water, though there continues to be an increase in consumer-oriented water distillers and reverse osmosis machines being sold and used. Municipal water supplies often add or have trace impurities at levels that are regulated to be safe for consumption. Much of these additional impurities, such as volatile organic compounds, fluoride, and an estimated 75,000+ other chemical compounds are not removed through conventional filtration; however, distillation and reverse osmosis eliminate nearly all of these impurities.\n\nThe drinking of purified water as a replacement of drinking water has been both advocated and discouraged for health reasons. Purified water lacks minerals and ions such as calcium that play key roles in biological functions, such as in nervous system homeostasis, and are normally found in potable water. The lack of naturally occurring minerals in distilled water has raised some concerns. The Journal of General Internal Medicine published a study on the mineral contents of different waters available in the US. The study found that \"drinking water sources available to North Americans may contain high levels of calcium, magnesium, and sodium and may provide clinically important portions of the recommended dietary intake of these minerals\". It encouraged people to \"check the mineral content of their drinking water, whether tap or bottled, and choose water most appropriate for their needs\". Since distilled water is devoid of minerals, supplemental mineral intake through diet is needed to maintain proper health.\n\nThe consumption of \"hard\" water (water with minerals) is associated with beneficial cardiovascular effects. As noted in the American Journal of Epidemiology, the consumption of hard drinking water is negatively correlated with atherosclerotic heart disease.\n\n"}
{"id": "8354382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8354382", "title": "Right-wing populism", "text": "Right-wing populism\n\nRight-wing populism is a political ideology which combines right-wing politics and populist rhetoric and themes. The rhetoric often consists of anti-elitist sentiments, opposition to the Establishment and speaking for the common people.\n\nIn Europe, right-wing populism is an expression used to describe groups, politicians and political parties generally known for their opposition to immigration, mostly from the Islamic world and in most cases Euroscepticism. Right-wing populism in the Western world is generally—though not exclusively—associated with ideologies such as neo-nationalism, anti-globalization, nativism, protectionism and opposition to immigration. Anti-Muslim ideas and sentiments serve as the \"great unifiers\" among right-wing political formations throughout Western Europe. Traditional right-wing views such as opposition to an increasing support for the welfare state and a \"more lavish, but also more restrictive, domestic social spending\" scheme is also described under right-wing populism and is sometimes called \"welfare chauvinism\".\n\nFrom the 1990s, right-wing populist parties became established in the legislatures of various democracies, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Romania and Sweden; and they entered coalition governments in Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile, Finland, Greece, Italy, Israel, Latvia, Lithuania, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Slovakia and Switzerland; and majority governments in India, Turkey, Hungary and Poland. Although extreme right-wing movements in the United States have been studied separately, where they are normally called \"radical right\", some writers consider them to be a part of the same phenomenon. Right-wing populism in the United States is also closely linked to paleoconservatism. Right-wing populism is distinct from conservatism, but several right-wing populist parties have their roots in conservative political parties. Other populist parties have links to fascist movements founded during the interwar period when Italian, German, Hungarian, Spanish and Japanese fascism rose to power.\n\nSince the Great Recession, right-wing populist movements such as the National Rally (formerly the \"National Front\") in France, the Northern League in Italy, the Party for Freedom in the Netherlands and the UK Independence Party began to grow in popularity, in large part because of increasing opposition to immigration from the Middle East and Africa, rising Euroscepticism and discontent with the economic policies of the European Union. U.S. President Donald Trump's 2016 political views have been summarized by pundits as right-wing populist and nationalist.\n\nClassification of right-wing populism into a single political family has proved difficult and it is not certain whether a meaningful category exists, or merely a cluster of categories since the parties differ in ideology, organization and leadership rhetoric. Unlike traditional parties, they also do not belong to international organizations of like-minded parties, and they do not use similar terms to describe themselves.\n\nScholars use terminology inconsistently, sometimes referring to right-wing populism as \"radical right\" or other terms such as new nationalism. Pippa Norris noted that \"standard reference works use alternate typologies and diverse labels categorising parties as 'far' or 'extreme' right, 'new right', 'anti-immigrant' or 'neofascist', 'antiestablishment', 'national populist', 'protest', 'ethnic', 'authoritarian', 'antigovernment', 'antiparty', 'ultranationalist', 'neoliberal', 'right-libertarian' and so on\".\n\nPiero Ignazi divided right-wing populist parties, which he called \"extreme right parties\", into two categories: he placed traditional right-wing parties that had developed out of the historical right and post-industrial parties that had developed independently. He placed the British National Party, the National Democratic Party of Germany, the German People's Union and the former Dutch Centre Party in the first category, whose prototype would be the disbanded Italian Social Movement; whereas he placed the French National Front, the German Republicans, the Dutch Centre Democrats, the former Belgian Vlaams Blok (which would include certain aspects of traditional extreme right parties), the Danish Progress Party, the Norwegian Progress Party and the Freedom Party of Austria in the second category.\n\nRight-wing populist parties in the English-speaking world include the UK Independence Party and Australia's One Nation. The U.S. Republican Party and Conservative Party of Canada include right-wing populist factions.\n\nThe main right-wing populist party in Australia is One Nation, led by Pauline Hanson, Senator for Queensland. One Nation typically supports the governing Coalition.\n\nOther parties represented in the Australian Parliament with right-wing populist elements and rhetoric include the Australian Conservatives, led by Cory Bernardi, Senator for South Australia, the libertarian Liberal Democratic Party, led by David Leyonhjelm, Senator for New South Wales, and Katter's Australian Party, led by Queensland MP Bob Katter. The Liberal Democratic Party and the Australian Conservatives form a voting bloc in the Australian Senate.\n\nSome figures within the Liberal Party of Australia, which is part of the Coalition, have been described as right-wing populists, including former Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Home Affairs Minister Peter Dutton.\n\nAs of October 9th 2018 Jair Bolsonaro, a right-wing candidate, advised by Steve Bannon, was favored in the Brazilian general election, 2018 won the election after a run off with Fernando Haddad in the second round.\n\nCanada has a history of right-wing populist protest parties and politicians, most notably in Western Canada due to Western alienation. The highly successful Social Credit Party of Canada consistently won seats in British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan, but fell into obscurity by the 1970s. The Reform Party of Canada led by Preston Manning was another very successful right-wing populist formed as a result of the policies of the centre-right Progressive Conservative Party of Canada which alienated many Blue Tories. The two parties ultimately merged into the Conservative Party of Canada.\n\nIn recent years, right-wing populist elements have existed within the Conservative Party of Canada and mainstream provincial parties, and have most notably been espoused by Ontario MP Kellie Leitch; businessman Kevin O'Leary; Quebec Premier François Legault; the former Mayor of Toronto, Rob Ford; and his brother, Ontario Premier Doug Ford.\n\nIn August 2018, Conservative MP Maxime Bernier left the party, and the following month he founded the People's Party of Canada, which has been described as a \"right of centre, populist\" movement.\n\nThe recent wave of right-wing populism knocked doors of Pakistan in form of Pakistan Tehreek Insaaf (PTI). Its leader Imran Khan has furiously attacked traditional politicians and made people believe that only he has the solutions. British journalist Ben Judah, in an interview, compared Imran Khan with Donald Trump on his populist rhetoric. He pleas tribalism as the ideal form of human society, he  has provided public money to mullahs for breeding extremism.\n\nSenior European Union diplomats cite growing anxiety in Europe about Russian financial support for far-right and populist movements and told the Financial Times that the intelligence agencies of \"several\" countries had stepped up scrutiny of possible links with Moscow. In 2016, the Czech Republic warned that Russia tries to \"divide and conquer\" the European Union by supporting rightwing populist politicians across the bloc.\n\nThe Austrian Freedom Party (FPÖ) established in 1955 by a former Nazi functionary claims to represent a \"Third Camp\" (\"Drittes Lager\"), beside the Socialist Party and the social Catholic Austrian People's Party. It succeeded the Federation of Independents founded after World War II, adopting the pre-war heritage of German nationalism. Though it did not gain much popularity for decades, it exercised considerable balance of power by supporting several federal governments, be it right-wing or left-wing, e.g. the Socialist Kreisky cabinet of 1970 (see Kreisky–Peter–Wiesenthal affair).\nFrom 1980, the Freedom Party adopted a more liberal stance. Upon the 1983 federal election, it entered a coalition government with the Socialist Party, whereby party chairman Norbert Steger served as Vice-Chancellor. The liberal interlude however ended, when Jörg Haider was elected chairman in 1986. By his down-to-earth manners and patriotic attitude, Haider re-integrated the party's nationalist base voters. Nevertheless, he was also able to obtain votes from large sections of population disenchanted with politics by publicly denouncing corruption and nepotism of the Austrian \"Proporz\" system. The electoral success was boosted by Austria's accession to the European Union in 1995.\n\nUpon the 1999 federal election, the Freedom Party (FPÖ) with 26.9% of the votes cast became the second strongest party in the National Council parliament. Having entered a coalition government with the People's Party, Haider had to face the disability of several FPÖ ministers, but also the impossibility of agitation against members of his own cabinet. In 2005, he finally countered the FPÖ's loss of reputation by the Alliance for the Future of Austria (BZÖ) relaunch in order to carry on his government. The remaining FPÖ members elected Heinz-Christian Strache chairman, but since the 2006 federal election both right-wing parties have run separately. After Haider was killed in a car accident in 2008, the BZÖ has lost a measurable amount of support.\n\nThe FPÖ regained much of its support in subsequent elections. Its candidate Norbert Hofer made it into the runoff in the 2016 presidential election, though he narrowly lost the election. After the 2017 legislative elections, the FPÖ formed a government coalition with the Austrian People's Party.\n\nVlaams Blok, established in 1978, operated on a platform of law and order, anti-immigration (with particular focus on Islamic immigration) and secession of the Flanders region of the country. The secession was originally planned to end in the annexation of Flanders by the culturally and linguistically similar Netherlands until the plan was abandoned due to the multiculturalism in that country. In the elections to the Flemish Parliament in June 2004, the party received 24.2% of the vote, within less than 2% of being the largest party. However, in November of the same year, the party was ruled illegal under anti-racism law for, among other things, advocating schools segregated between citizens and immigrants. \n\nIn less than a week, the party was re-established under the name Vlaams Belang, with a near-identical ideology. It advocates for immigrants wishing to stay to adopt the Flemish culture and language. Despite some accusations of antisemitism from Belgium's Jewish population, the party has demonstrated a staunch pro-Israel stance as part of its opposition to Islam. With 18 of 124 seats, Vlaams Belang lead the opposition in the Flemish Parliament and also have 11 of the 150 seats in the Belgian House of Representatives.\n\nMischaël Modrikamen, an associate of Steve Bannon, is chairman of the Parti Populaire (PP), which contests elections in Wallonia.\n\nThe ELAM (National People's Front) (Εθνικό Λαϊκό Μέτωπο) was formed in 2008 on the platform of maintaining Cypriot identity, opposition to further European integration, immigration and the \"status quo\" that remains due to Turkey's invasion of a third of the island (and the international community's lack of intention to solve the issue).\n\nIn the early 1970s, the home of the strongest right-wing-populist party in Europe was in Denmark, the Progress Party. In the 1973 election, it received almost 16% of the vote. In the following years, its support dwindled away, but was replaced by the Danish People's Party in the 1990s, which has gone on to be an important support party for the governing Liberal-Conservative coalition in the 2000s (decade). The Danish People's Party is the largest and most influential right-wing populist party in Denmark today. It won 37 seats in the Danish general election, 2015 and became the second largest party in Denmark. The Danish People's Party advocates immigration reductions, particularly from non-Western countries, favor cultural assimilation of first generation migrants into Danish society and are opposed to Denmark becoming a multicultural society.\n\nAdditionally, the Danish People's Party's stated goals are to enforce a strict rule of law, to maintain a strong welfare system for those in need, to promote economic growth by strengthening education and encouraging people to work and in favor of protecting the environment. In 2015, The New Right was founded, but they have not yet participated in an election.\n\nIn Finland, the Finns Party is the main right-wing populist party and the second largest party in Finland. In 2017, 19 of the 37 MPs from the party split and founded Blue Reform.\n\nIn France, the main right-wing populist party is the National Front. Since Marine Le Pen's election at the head of the party in 2011, the National Front has established itself as one of the main political parties in France and also as the strongest and most successful populist party of Europe as of 2015.\n\nLe Pen finished second in the 2017 election and lost in the second round of voting versus Emmanuel Macron which was held on 7 May 2017.\n\nThe Hungarian parliamentary election, 2018 result was a victory for the Fidesz–KDNP alliance, preserving its two-thirds majority, with Viktor Orbán remaining Prime Minister. Orbán and Fidesz campaigned primarily on the issues of immigration and foreign meddling, and the election was seen as a victory for right-wing populism in Europe.\n\nSince 2013, the most popular right-wing populist party in Germany has been Alternative for Germany which managed to finish third in the 2017 German federal election, making it the first right-wing populist party to enter the Bundestag, Germany's national parliament. Before, right-wing populist parties had gained seats in German State Parliaments only. Left-wing populism is represented in the Bundestag by The Left party.\n\nOn a regional level, right-wing populist movements like Pro NRW and Citizens in Rage (\"Bürger in Wut\", BIW) sporadically attract some support. In 1989, The Republicans (\"Die Republikaner\") led by Franz Schönhuber entered the Abgeordnetenhaus of Berlin and achieved more than 7% of the German votes cast in the 1989 European election, with six seats in the European Parliament. The party also won seats in the Landtag of Baden-Württemberg twice in 1992 and 1996, but after 2000 the Republicans' support eroded in favour of the far-right German People's Union and the Neo-Nazi National Democratic Party of Germany (NPD), which in the 2009 federal election held 1.5% of the popular vote (winning up to 9% in regional \"Landtag\" parliamentary elections).\n\nIn 2005, a nationwide Pro Germany Citizens' Movement (\"pro Deutschland\") was founded in Cologne. The Pro Germany movement appears as a conglomerate of numerous small parties, voters' associations and societies, distinguishing themselves by campaigns against Islamic extremism and Muslim immigrants. Its representatives claim a zero tolerance policy and the combat of corruption. With the denial of a multiethnic society (\"Überfremdung\") and the islamization, their politics extend to far-right positions. Other minor right-wing populist parties include the German Freedom Party founded in 2010, the former East German German Social Union (DSU) and the dissolved Party for a Rule of Law Offensive (\"Schill party\").\n\nThe most prominent right-wing populist party in Greece is the Independent Greeks (ANEL). Despite being smaller than the more extreme Golden Dawn party, after the January 2015 legislative elections ANEL formed a governing coalition with the left-wing Coalition of the Radical Left (SYRIZA), thus making the party a governing party and giving it a place in the Cabinet of Alexis Tsipras.\n\nThe Golden Dawn has grown significantly in Greece during the country's economic downturn, gaining 7% of the vote and 18 out of 300 seats in the Hellenic Parliament. The party's ideology includes annexation of territory in Albania and Turkey, including the Turkish cities of Istanbul and Izmir. Controversial measures by the party included a poor people's kitchen in Athens which only supplied to Greek citizens and was shut down by the police.\n\nThe Popular Orthodox Rally is not represented in the Greek legislature, but supplied 2 of the country's 22 MEPS until 2014. It supports anti-globalisation and lower taxes for small businesses as well as opposition to Turkish accession to the European Union and the Republic of Macedonia's use of the name Macedonia as well as immigration only for Europeans. Its participation in government has been one of the reasons why it became unpopular with its voters who turned to Golden Dawn in Greece's 2012 elections.\n\nIn Italy, the most prominent right-wing populist party is Lega Nord (LN), whose leaders reject the right-wing label, though not the \"populist\" one. LN is a federalist, regionalist and sometimes secessionist party, founded in 1991 as a federation of several regional parties of Northern and Central Italy, most of which had arisen and expanded during the 1980s. LN's program advocates the transformation of Italy into a federal state, fiscal federalism and greater regional autonomy, especially for the Northern regions. At times, the party has advocated for the secession of the North, which it calls Padania. The party generally takes an anti-Southern Italian stance as members are known for opposing Southern Italian emigration to Northern Italian cities, stereotyping Southern Italians as welfare abusers and detrimental to Italian society and attributing Italy's economic troubles and the disparity of the North-South divide in the Italian economy to supposed inherent negative characteristics of the Southern Italians, such as laziness, lack of education or criminality. Certain LN members have been known to publicly deploy the offensive slur \"terrone\", a common pejorative term for Southern Italians that is evocative of negative Southern Italian stereotypes. As a federalist, regionalist, populist party of the North, LN is also highly critical of the centralized power and political importance of Rome, sometimes adopting to a lesser extent an anti-Roman stance in addition to an anti-Southern stance.\n\nWith the rise of immigration into Italy since the late 1990s, LN has increasingly turned its attention to criticizing mass immigration to Italy. The LN, which also opposes illegal immigration, is critical of Islam and proposes Italy's exit from the Eurozone, is considered a Eurosceptic movement and as such it joined the Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) group in the European Parliament after the 2009 European Parliament election. LN was or is part of the national government in 1994, 2001–2006, 2008–2011 and 2018-present. Most recently, the party, which notably includes among its members the Presidents of Lombardy and Veneto, won 17.4% of the vote in the 2018 general election, becoming the third-largest party in Italy (largest within the centre-right coalition). In the 2014 European election, under the leadership of Matteo Salvini it took 6.2% of votes. Under Salvini, the party has to some extent embraced Italian nationalism and emphasised Euroscepticism, opposition to immigration and other \"populist\" policies, while forming an alliance with right-wing populist parties in Europe.\n\nSilvio Berlusconi, leader of Forza Italia and Prime Minister of Italy from 1994–1995, 2001–2006 and 2008–2011, has sometimes been described as a right-wing populist, although his party is not typically described as such.\n\nA number of national conservative, nationalist and arguably right-wing populist parties are strong especially in Lazio, the region around Rome and Southern Italy. Most of them are heirs of the Italian Social Movement (a neo-fascist party, whose best result was 8.7% of the vote in the 1972 general election) and its successor National Alliance (which reached 15.7% of the vote in 1996 general election). They include the Brothers of Italy (2.0% in 2013), The Right (0.6%), New Force (0.3%), \"CasaPound\" (0.1%), Tricolour Flame (0.1%), Social Idea Movement (0.01%) and \"Progetto Nazionale\" (0.01%).\n\nAdditionally, in the German-speaking South Tyrol the local second-largest party, \"Die Freiheitlichen\", is often described as a right-wing populist party.\n\nIn the Netherlands, right-wing populism was represented in the 150-seat House of Representatives in 1982, when the Centre Party won a single seat. During the 1990s, a splinter party, the Centre Democrats, was slightly more successful, although its significance was still marginal. Not before 2002 did a right-wing populist party break through in the Netherlands, when the Pim Fortuyn List won 26 seats and subsequently formed a coalition with the Christian Democratic Appeal (CDA) and People's Party for Freedom and Democracy (VVD). Fortuyn, who had strong views against immigration, particularly by Muslims, was assassinated in May 2002, two weeks before the election. The coalition had broken up by 2003, and the party went into steep decline until it was dissolved.\n\nSince 2006, the Party for Freedom (PVV) has been represented in the House of Representatives. Following the 2010 general election, it has been in a pact with the right-wing minority government of CDA and VVD after it won 24 seats in the House of Representatives. The party is Eurosceptic and plays a leading role in the changing stance of the Dutch government towards European integration as they came second in the 2009 European Parliament election, winning 4 out of 25 seats. The party's main programme revolves around strong criticism of Islam, restrictions on migration from new European Union countries and Islamic countries, pushing for cultural assimilation of migrants into Dutch society, opposing the accession of Turkey to the European Union, advocating for the Netherlands to withdraw from the European Union and advocating for a return to the guilder through ending Dutch usage of the euro.\n\nThe PVV withdrew its support for the First Rutte cabinet in 2012 after refusing to support austerity measures. This triggered the 2012 general election in which the PVV was reduced to 15 seats and excluded from the new government.\n\nIn the Dutch general election, 2017, Wilders' PVV gained an extra five seats to become the second largest party in the Dutch House of Representatives, bringing their total to 20 seats.\n\nFrom 2017 onwards, the Forum for Democracy has emerged as another right-wing populist force in the Netherlands.\n\nThe largest right-wing populist party in Poland is Law and Justice, which currently holds both the presidency and a governing majority in the Sejm. It combines social conservatism and criticism of immigration with strong support for NATO and an interventionist economic policy.\n\nPolish Congress of the New Right, headed by Michał Marusik, aggressively promotes fiscally conservative concepts like radical tax reductions preceded by abolishment of social security, universal public healthcare, state-sponsored education and abolishment of Communist Polish 1944 agricultural reform as a way to dynamical economic and welfare growth. Due to lack of empirical and economic evidences presented by party leaders and members, the party is considered populist both by right-wing and left-wing publicists\n\nThe Sweden Democrats are the third largest party in Sweden with 17.53% of popular votes in the parliamentary election of 2018.\n\nIn Switzerland, the right-wing populist Swiss People's Party (SVP) reached an all-time high in the 2015 elections. The party is mainly considered to be national conservative, but it has also variously been identified as \"extreme right\" and \"radical right-wing populist\", reflecting a spectrum of ideologies present among its members. In its far-right wing, it includes members such as Ulrich Schlüer, Pascal Junod, who heads a New Right study group. |archive-url=https://web.archive.org/web/20020421064426/http://www.tau.ac.il/Anti-Semitism/asw2000-1/switzerland.htm |archive-date=21 April 2002 |dead-url=yes |title=Antisemitism And Racism in Switzerland 2000-1 |accessdate=3 January 2015 }}</ref>\n\nIn Switzerland, radical right populist parties held close to 10% of the popular vote in 1971, were reduced to below 2% by 1979 and again grew to more than 10% in 1991. Since 1991, these parties (the Swiss Democrats and the Swiss Freedom Party) have been absorbed by the SVP. During the 1990s, the SVP grew from being the fourth largest party to being the largest and gained a second seat the Swiss Federal Council in 2003, with prominent politician and businessman Christoph Blocher. In 2015, the SVP received 29.4% of the vote, the highest vote ever recorded for a single party throughout Swiss parliamentary history.\n\nMedia outlets such as \"The New York Times\" have called the UK Independence Party (UKIP), led by Nigel Farage, the largest right-wing populist party in the United Kingdom. UKIP campaigned for an exit from the European Union prior to the 2016 European membership referendum and a points-based immigration system similar to that used in Australia.\nThe United Kingdom's governing Conservative Party has seen defections to UKIP over the European Union and immigration debates as well as LGBT rights.\n\nIn the Conservative Party, former Mayor of London and Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson has been described as expressing right-wing populist views during the successful Vote Leave campaign. Jacob Rees-Mogg, another potential party leadership contender, has been described as a right-wing populist.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) is the main right-wing populist force.\n\nMoore (1996) argues that \"populist opposition to the growing power of political, economic, and cultural elites\" helped shape \"conservative and right-wing movements\" since the 1920s. Historical right-wing populist figures in both major parties in the United States have included Thomas E. Watson, Strom Thurmond, Joe McCarthy, Barry Goldwater, George Wallace and Pat Buchanan. When Conservative Democrats dominated the politics of the Democratic Party, they comprised a faction of the Democrats which espoused populism, while the Republicans have adopted some forms of populism since 1980s.\n\nThe Tea Party movement has been characterized as \"a right-wing anti-systemic populist movement\" by Rasmussen and Schoen (2010). They add: \"Today our country is in the midst of a...new populist revolt that has emerged overwhelmingly from the right – manifesting itself as the Tea Party movement\". In 2010, David Barstow wrote in \"The New York Times\": \"The Tea Party movement has become a platform for conservative populist discontent\". Some political figures closely associated with the Tea Party, such as U.S. Senator Ted Cruz and former U.S. Representative Ron Paul, have been described as appealing to right-wing populism. In the U.S. House of Representatives, the Freedom Caucus, which is associated with the Tea Party movement, has been described as right-wing populist.\n\nDonald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign, noted for its anti-establishment and anti-immigration rhetoric, was characterized as that of a right-wing populist. The ideology of Trump's former Chief Strategist, Steve Bannon, has also been described as such.\n\n"}
{"id": "35684112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35684112", "title": "Right to clothing", "text": "Right to clothing\n\nThe right to adequate clothing, or the right to clothing, is recognized as a human right in various international human rights instruments; this, together with the right to food and the right to housing, are parts of the right to an adequate standard of living as recognized under Article 11 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR). The right to clothing is similarly recognized under Article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).\n\nThe right to clothing forms an aspect of the right to an adequate standard of living, and as such, is regarded as something that needs to be ensured so as to prevent people from living below the poverty line. Indeed, being ill-clothed is emblematic of acute poverty:\n\nTo illustrate how far-reaching the right to clothing potentially is, Dr Stephen James has provided a non-exhaustive list of beneficiaries of the right to minimum clothing. Included on this list are those sections of society that suffer the greatest from a lack of clothing, such as:\n\n\nThe lack of discussion about the right to clothing has led to uncertainty as to the ambit of the right and how much clothing is required. Matthew Craven notes that a minimum level of clothing is what is required to be provided; it is of \"paramount importance not least because at minimum levels it represents a question of survival.\" This requirement of a \"minimum\" or \"adequate\" standard is mirrored in reports from the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (CRC) and a report from the Consortium For Street Children, as well as a number of General Comments from the Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) as regards the elderly, disabled, and workers. There is, however, no indication as to what such a \"minimum\" or \"adequate\" standard entails: indeed, only rarely has the CESCR questioned a party state of the ICESCR on its performance with respect to the right to clothing.\n\nThere has been limited academic commentary on the ambit of the right to clothing with regards to refugees. James Hathaway has argued that refugees should have access to clothing that suitable for the climate and is sufficient for any work or other roles they may wish to undertake. Furthermore, they should not be compelled to wear any sort of clothing that would lead to social stigma or discrimination as foreigners. On the other hand, however, should refugees choose to wear clothing that is representative of their culture, country of origin or society, they are protected under Article 27 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights to do so. The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has tended towards applying context-specific interpretations on what is an adequate standard of clothing; so far, the right in its general sense has not yet been considered in a general comment.\n\nThe right to clothing has been recognised domestically for millennia  – at least partially  – but has received very little recognition on the international scene. It is not clear why there is a lack of recognition; one author has suggested that the lack of elaboration is due to the variations in cultural needs and wants. However, this explanation has been regarded as \"not plausible\": Dr James notes that \"[c]ultural, environmental and economic variations in 'needs and wants' are surely as marked with regard to housing, health as they are in relation to clothing, but this has not prevented detailed elaboration of those rights in international law.\" Matthew Craven concluded in 1995 that:\n\nHowever, Dr James has remarked: \"...none of us can be complacent that we will not find ourselves [...] in need of adequate clothing. The right is of great practical importance. It is an essential subsistence right, not an embellishment or a legal absurdity\". He also called for further discussion and academic commentary, arguing:\n\nAs the right to clothing concerns such a fundamental aspect of humanity, it naturally interacts with other human rights that are contained within various human rights instruments.\n\nEveryone has the essential right to life, as confirmed under Article 3 of the UDHR. However, if people are not adequately clothed, they are far more exposed to the elements. Without warm clothing, a person may well die from hypothermia during a cold winter; clothing that is inappropriately warm, on the other hand, could contribute to heat stroke, dehydration and exhaustion during summer or in tropical climates. Furthermore, inadequate clothing could increase exposure to ultraviolet rays; aggravate allergies and skin conditions; and worsen pre-existing medical conditions.\n\nAdditionally, access to medical care – similarly confirmed under Article 25 of the UDHR as well as Article 12 of the ICESCR  – can be impeded by inadequate access to clothing, particularly if the access to therapeutic clothing or orthopedic footwear is unavailable or prohibitively expensive.\n\nWearing clothes – or more accurately, choosing which clothes to wear – is, for many people, an important part of expression as confirmed under Article 19 of the UDHR. Persons with serious disabilities may be dress inappropriately, denying their desired expression. Furthermore, being forced to wear dirty, ripped, ill-fitting and even extremely outdated clothing may invite ridicule and contempt and inflict shame. This can be particularly true with school children  – parents may be reluctant to consider sending a child to school as a result of ridicule and shame brought through the clothing the child wears. A distinction should be drawn, however, between those who are forced to wear ripped, ill-fitting or extremely outdated clothing and those who consciously choose to wear such clothes as a 'fashion statement'.\n\nThe clothes that people choose to wear can identify a great number of things about a person: religious affiliations, ethnicity, national or political identity, culture, or race. Arguably, the clothes that an impoverished person wears can indicate their poverty. This sign of poverty or poorer economic status can be a cause of discrimination and of vilification. Additionally, clothing which is culturally distinctive or denotes religious affiliation could provoke discrimination and lead to a denial of social, economic, or political opportunities.\n\nThere is a large potential for \"abuses of trust, for humiliations and various physical abuses in medical and institutional settings, especially in relation to women and children, the disabled and elderly.\" If a person is denied access to adequate clothing  – especially essential clothes, such as undergarments  – it is possible that they may be rendered vulnerable to cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment under the ambit of Article 5 of the UDHR. Such denial would include forcibly taking clothes, and is of particular importance in the context of detention and prisons: \"[o]ne can literally be left naked in the midst of power, a tragic condition [...] seen too often in prisons, in war and in concentration camps.\" Examples of such abuses in Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq and Guantanamo Bay have found to have caused serious mental illnesses, including post-traumatic stress disorder, resulting from forcing prisoners to strip naked and parade in front of female guards, as well as male detainees being forced to wear female underwear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "60042", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60042", "title": "Saint Patrick's Battalion", "text": "Saint Patrick's Battalion\n\nThe Saint Patrick's Battalion (), formed and led by John Riley, was a unit of 175 to several hundred immigrants (accounts vary) and expatriates of European descent who fought as part of the Mexican Army against the United States in the Mexican–American War of 1846–48. Most of the battalion's members had deserted or defected from the United States Army. The Battalion served as an artillery unit for much of the war. Despite later being formally designated as two infantry companies, it still retained artillery pieces throughout the conflict. In many ways, the battalion acted as the sole Mexican counterbalance to the recent U.S. innovation of horse artillery. The \"San Patricios\" were responsible for the toughest battles encountered by the United States in its invasion of Mexico, with Ulysses S. Grant remarking that \"Churubusco proved to be about the severest battle fought in the valley of Mexico\".\n\nComposed primarily of Catholic Irish immigrants, the battalion also included Germans, Canadians, English, French, Italians, Poles, Scots, Spaniards, Swiss, and Mexicans, many of whom were members of the Catholic Church. Disenfranchised Americans were in the ranks, including escaped slaves from the Southern United States. Only a few members of the Saint Patrick's Battalion were actual U.S. citizens. The Mexican government printed propaganda in different languages to entice immigrants in the U.S. Army to switch sides and offered incentives to foreigners who would enlist in its army including granting them citizenship, paying higher wages than the U.S. Army, and generous land grants.\n\nThe San Patricios are revered and honoured in Mexico and Ireland. Members of the Battalion are known to have deserted from U.S. Army regiments including; the 1st Artillery, the 2nd Artillery, the 3rd Artillery, the 4th Artillery, the 2nd Dragoons, the 2nd Infantry, the 3rd Infantry, the 4th Infantry, the 5th Infantry, the\n6th Infantry, the 7th Infantry and the 8th Infantry.\n\nFor Mexicans of the generation that fought the Mexican–American War, and generations to come, the San Patricios were heroes who came to their aid in an hour of need. For US-Americans of that generation, the San Patricios were considered traitors. Successive Mexican presidents have praised the San Patricios; Vicente Fox Quesada stated that \"The affinities between Ireland and Mexico go back to the first years of our nation, when our country fought to preserve its national sovereignty... Then, a brave group of Irish soldiers... in a heroic gesture, decided to fight against the foreign ground invasion\", and Mexican president Ernesto Zedillo stated \"Members of the St. Patrick's Battalion were executed for following their consciences. They were martyred for adhering to the highest ideals ... we honor their memory. In the name of the people of Mexico, I salute today the people of Ireland and express my eternal gratitude\".\n\nThe great majority of these men were recent immigrants who had arrived at northeastern U.S. ports, part of the Irish diaspora then escaping the Great Irish Famine and extremely poor economic conditions in Ireland, part of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland at the time. The U.S. Army often recruited Irishmen and other immigrants into military service shortly or sometimes immediately after arrival in America in coffin ships, with promises of salaries and land after the war.\n\nNumerous theories have been proposed as to their motives for desertion, including cultural alienation, mistreatment of immigrant soldiers by nativist soldiers and senior officers, brutal military discipline and dislike of service in the U.S. military, being forced to attend Protestant church services and being unable to practice their Catholic religion freely as well as religious ideological convictions, the incentive of higher wages and land grants starting at offered by Mexico, and viewing the U.S. invasion of Mexico as unjust.\n\nIt is believed primary motivations were shared religion with the Mexicans and sympathy for the Mexican cause based on similarities between the situations in Mexico and Ireland. This hypothesis is based on evidence of the number of Irish Catholics in the Battalion, the letters of John Riley, and the field entries of senior officers. Another hypothesis is that the members of the Saint Patrick's Battalion had been unhappy with their treatment in the U.S. Army; this was the conviction of George Ballentine, an Englishman who served in the American army. Ballentine stated that while \"there was a portion of truth\" in the view—commonly assigned by officers—that the deserters joined the Mexican army due to their Catholicism, \"I have good reason to believe, in fact in some cases I know, that harsh and unjust treatment by their officers operated far more strongly than any other consideration to produce the deplorable result [desertion],\" describing how he found the punishments used for \"trivial offensives\" to be \"revolting and disgusting\". Another theory some historians hold is that the soldiers were attracted by the incentives offered by the Mexican government: safe passage throughout Mexico for deserters, generous land grants, and the offer of potential military commissions. For poor people coming from famine conditions, economics was often an important incentive.\n\nMexican author José Raúl Conseco noted that many Irish lived in northern Texas, and were forced to move south due to regional insecurity. Mainly Irish settlers from San Patricio, Texas had previously sided with Mexican forces against Texan rebels at the Battle of Lipantitlán in the Texan Revolution.\n\nIrish expatriates had a long tradition of serving in military forces of Catholic countries, for instance, serving with Spain and later France in groups of young men who had left Ireland during what would become known as the Flight of the Wild Geese in the 17th century. In addition, many Irish fought as soldiers in South American wars of independence.\n\nThere are conflicting accounts of the design of the flag of the Saint Patrick's Battalion. No flags or depictions of them are known to have survived to the present day. The only version of the flag known to have survived the war was subsequently lost or stolen from the chapel at West Point.\n\nJohn Riley, who left an account of the battalion, noted the flag in a letter:\nAccording to an American journalist covering the war with Mexico:\n\nTwo other eye-witness accounts of the flag exist, both from American soldiers. The first describes it as:\n\nThe second notes only:\nA radically different version of the flag was described in this Mexican source:\nWhatever the case, in 1997 a reproduction military flag was created by the Clifden and Connemara Heritage Group. Another was created the following year for the MGM film \"One Man's Hero\". The film was a romanticised version of the San Patricios' history. A third version embodying the description of the San Luis Potosí flag was made for the Irish Society of Chicago, which hung it in Chicago's Union League Club.\n\nSome theories suggest that the Saint Patrick's Battalion might have used different banners (as an artillery unit, an infantry company and as a reconstructed unit).\n\nPresent in the Mexican Army for the battles of Palo Alto and Resaca de la Palma were the \"Legión de Extranjeros\" (Legion of Foreigners); the men who would later make up the core of the Saint Patrick's battalion. Meanwhile, deserters were abandoning General Taylor's army on the Rio Grande. Riley and \"a company of 48 Irishmen\" manned Mexican artillery at the Siege of Fort Texas, which took place concurrently to the two other battles. Martin Tritschler, German Mexican and a Captain at the Battle of Cerro Gordo, is attributed with convincing a large number of German soldiers to defect from the U.S. occupying forces in Puebla, Puebla.\n\nThe Saint Patrick's Battalion first fought as a recognised Mexican unit in the Battle of Monterrey on 21 September 1846, as an artillery battery. Popularly they were called \"Los Colorados\" by the Mexicans because of their ruddy, sun-burnt complexions and red hair color. They were commanded by John Riley, an Irish artilleryman and veteran non-commissioned officer of the British Army, who possibly arrived in Canada in 1843 whilst serving in the British Army (the assertion that he served as a Sergeant in the 66th (Berkshire) Regiment of Foot, is known to be inaccurate) going on to join the U.S. Army in Michigan in September 1845. He deserted in Matamoros in April 1846. Upon meeting Mexican forces he was initially given the Officer rank of Lieutenant by General Pedro de Ampudia.\nAt the battle of Monterrey the San Patricios proved their artillery skills by causing the deaths of many American soldiers, and they are credited with defeating two to three separate assaults into the heart of the city. Among their targets were companies led by such officers as Braxton Bragg, many of whose soldiers would end up in their own ranks later in the war. Their tenacity, however, did not affect the Mexican commanders' decision to capitulate and abandon the position.\n\nFollowing the engagement at Monterrey, the San Patricios grew in number, by some estimates reaching an enlistment of over 700 men. Forces re-assembled at San Luis Potosí and they had their distinct green silk flag embroidered there.\n\nThey then marched northward after joining a larger force commanded by Antonio López de Santa Anna sent from Mexico City, the \"liberating army of the North\". At the Battle of Buena Vista (known as the battle of Angostura in Mexico) in Coahuila on 23 February, the Patricios became engaged with U.S. forces. They were assigned the three heaviest — 18 and 24 pound—cannons the Mexican army possessed, which were positioned on high ground over-looking the battlefield, at the base of a hillside (just below what is now a gravel mine). They were later described as \"a strong Mexican battery ... moved ... by dint of extraordinary exertions ... [that] commanded the entire plateau\".\n\nThey started the battle supporting Mexican infantry by firing on U.S. lines as the Mexicans advanced on them, then later decimating an artillery battery directly opposite them on the battlefield (Washington’s 4th Artillery, D Battery). A small number of San Patricios were dispatched with a division commanded by Manuel Lombardini with the express purpose of capturing the 4th's cannons once the crews had been dealt with. As the division got close enough they charged the artillery battery, bayoneting whoever remained and routing the rest, leaving the attached San Patricios free to haul away two six-pound cannons. These cannons would later be used by Mexican forces at the Battle of Contreras.\n\nIn frustration U.S. Commander Zachary Taylor, referring to the Saint Patrick's Battalion, ordered a squadron of the 1st Dragoons to \"take that damned battery\". In this task they failed, and, badly bloodied, were forced to retreat. At about 1 p.m. the San Patricios covered a Mexican retreat as a disordered mass of infantry sought refuge during a lull in the fighting. The San Patricios rode out the day in a costly artillery duel with several American batteries, which killed and injured roughly one third of them. General Francisco Mejia’s Battle Report for Buena Vista described the San Patricios’ as \"worthy of the most consummate praise because the men fought with daring bravery.\" Several Irishmen were awarded the War Cross by the Mexican government for their conduct in that battle, and many received field promotions.\n\nDespite their excellent performance in a number of engagements as artillery, the much-reduced San Patricios were ordered to muster a larger infantry battalion in mid-1847 by personal order of Santa Anna. It was renamed \"The Foreign Legion of Patricios\" and consisted of volunteers from many European countries, commanded by Col. Francisco R. Moreno, with Riley in charge of 1st company and Santiago O'Leary heading up the second. Desertion handbills were produced, specially targeting Catholic Irish, French and German immigrants in the invading U.S. army and stating that \"You must not fight against a religious people, nor should you be seen in the ranks of those who proclaim slavery of mankind as a constitutive principle ... liberty is not on the part of those who desire to be lords of the world, robbing properties and territories which do not belong to them and shedding so much blood in order to accomplish their views, views in open war to the principles of our holy religion\".\nThe Battle of Churubusco (20 August 1847) took place about four months after the defeat at Cerro Gordo. Gen. Santa Anna gave a verbal order to \"preserve the point at all risk\". The San Patricio Companies initially met the attackers outside the walls of the convent at a tête-de-pont, which was about from a fortified convent. A battery of three to five heavy cannons were used from this position to hold off the American advance along with support from \"Los Independencia Batallón\" and \"Los Bravos Batallón\". The Americans were under the command of Col. William Hoffman. Several U.S. charges towards the bridgehead were thrown off, with the San Patricio companies serving as an example to the supporting battalions. Unlike the San Patricios, most of whom were veterans (many having served in the armies of the United Kingdom and various German states), the supporting Mexican battalions were simply militia (the term 'National Guard' is also used) who had been untested by battle.\n\nA lack of ammunition led the Mexican soldiers in the trenches between the bridgehead and the convent to disband; without ammunition, they had no way to fight back. Santa Anna had ordered half of these soldiers to a different part of the battlefield. When the requested ammunition wagon finally arrived, the 9 ½ drachm cartridges were compatible with none but the San Patricio Companies \"Brown Bess\" muskets, and they made up only a fraction of the defending forces. Further hampering Mexican efforts, a stray spark from an artillery piece firing grape shot at the on-coming U.S. troops caused the just-arrived ammunition to explode and set fire to several men, including Captain O'Leary and Gen.l Anaya. A withdrawal behind the walls of the \"convento de Churubusco\" was called when the threat of being outflanked proved too great.\nThe San Patricios used this battle as a chance to settle old scores with U.S. troops. \"The large number of officers killed in the affair was ... ascribed to them, as for the gratification of their revenge they aimed at no other objects during the engagement\". At some point during the fighting for the convent, two American officers led fifteen men against a point in the Mexican defences, and mistook San Patricio members for friendly U.S. army troops; the San Patricios opened fire on them, killing and wounding all but one of the group. Though hopelessly outnumbered and under-equipped, the defenders repelled the attacking U.S. forces with heavy losses until their ammunition ran out and a Mexican officer raised the white flag of surrender. Officer Patrick Dalton of the San Patricios tore the white flag down, prompting Gen. Pedro Anaya to order his men to fight on, with their bare hands if necessary. American Private Ballentine reported that when the Mexicans attempted to raise the white flag two more times, members of the San Patricios shot and killed them. After brutal close-quarters fighting with bayonets and sabers through the halls and rooms inside the convent, U.S. Army Captain James M. Smith suggested a surrender after raising his white handkerchief. Following the U.S. victory, the Americans \"ventilat[ed] their vocabulary of Saxon expletives, not very \"courteously,\" on Riley and his beautiful disciples of St. Patrick.\"\n\nGen. Anaya stated in his written battle report that 35 San Patricios were killed, 85 taken prisoner (including a wounded John Riley, Captain O'Leary and Anaya); about 85 escaped with retreating Mexican forces. Some 60% of the San Patricios were killed or captured in the engagement. The survivors were reformed before the Battle of Mexico City some two weeks later and were stationed at Querétaro where the Mexican government had decamped, with some 50 members serving as a body-guard for the commander-in-chief. The battalion were caught up in the infighting and politicking of Mexico at the time, and were under the patronage of a faction that favored suing for ending of the conflict peacefully. New units were later made up of the free survivors of the battle of Churubusco and a roughly equal number of fresh deserters from the U.S. Army. Following the war, the Mexican Government insisted in a clause of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo that the remaining San Patricio prisoners held by the Americans were to be left in Mexico, and Major General William Orlando Butler issued General Orders 116 on 1 June 1848 stating that; \"The prisoners confined at the Citadel, known as the San Patricio prisoners, will be immediately discharged\"—Rogue’s March was played upon their release. The Saint Patrick's battalion continued to function as two infantry companies under the command of John Riley, with one unit tasked with sentry duty in Mexico City and the other was stationed in the suburbs of Guadalupe Hidalgo. The San Patricios were officially mustered out of Mexican military service in 1848; some members were alleged to have been involved in an abortive military coup, while historians have said the group was disbanded because of Mexican budget cuts.\n\nThe San Patricios captured by the U.S. Army were treated and punished as traitors for desertion in time of war. Seventy-two men were immediately charged with desertion by the Army.\n\nTwo separate courts-martial were held, one at Tacubaya on 23 August, and another at San Ángel on 26 August. At neither of these trials were the men represented by lawyers nor were transcripts made of the proceedings. This lack of formal legal advice could account for the fact that several of the men claimed that drunkenness had led them to desert (a common defense in military trials at the time that sometimes led to lighter sentences), and others described how they were forced to join the Mexican Army in some form or another. The majority of the San Patricios either offered no defense or their defenses were not recorded. Wealthy Mexicans came to the San Patricios' defence at the trials, and members of Mexico's first families visited them in prison.\n\nOne soldier who claimed he was forced to fight by the Mexicans after he was captured by them, and who subsequently refused to do so, was sentenced to death by firing squad instead of hanging, along with another who was found not to have officially joined the Mexican Army.\n\nMost of the convicted San Patricios were sentenced to death by hanging: 30 from the Tacubaya trial and 18 from San Ángel. The rationale was that they had entered Mexican military service following the declaration of war. Execution by hanging was in violation of the contemporary Articles of War, which stipulated that the penalty for desertion and/or defecting to the enemy during a time of war was death by firing squad, regardless of the circumstances. Hanging was reserved only for spies (without uniform) and for \"atrocities against civilians\", neither of which activities were among the charges brought against any members of the Saint Patricio's Battalion. Although more than 9,000 U.S. soldiers deserted the army during the Mexican–American War, only the San Patricios (who unlike almost all other deserters had also fought against the United States) were punished by hanging.\n\nThose soldiers who had left military service before the official declaration of war on Mexico (Riley among them) were sentenced to: \n\nIn all, 50 Saint Patrick's battalion members were officially executed by the U.S. Army. Collectively, this was the largest mass execution in United States history—the hanging of 38 Sioux at the conclusion of the Dakota War of 1862 appears to be the largest execution by hanging at a single event. En masse executions for treason took place at three separate locations on three separate dates; 16 were executed on 10 September 1847 at San Ángel, four were executed the following day at the village of Mixcoac on 11 September, and 30 were hanged at Chapultepec on 13 September. A sole San Patricio was murdered by American soldiers when he was recognised among the prisoners of war in the aftermath of the Battle of Molino del Rey, by being thrown \"into a mill flume and crushed by the wheel\". At the San Ángel hangings all prisoners were executed without incident except for Patrick Dalton, who, as an American captain described, was \"literally choked to death\". Dalton had previously voiced concerns regarding his treatment. By order of Gen. Winfield Scott, thirty San Patricios were to be executed at Chapultepec in full view of the two armies while they fought the Battle of Chapultepec, at the precise moment that the flag of the U.S. replaced the flag of Mexico atop the citadel. This order was carried out by Col. William Harney. Harney was taunted and jeered by the condemned men. While overseeing the hangings, Harney ordered Francis O'Connor hanged even though he had had both legs amputated the previous day. When the army surgeon informed the colonel that the absent soldier had lost both his legs in battle, Harney replied:\n\nThe U.S. flag appeared on the flagpole at 9.30 a.m. As legend has it, the Mexican flag had been taken by cadet of the Niños Héroes to his death after leaping with it from Chapultepec Castle to deny the Americans the honor of capturing it. In a final act of defiance, the men about to be hanged cheered the Mexican flag, as one onlooker remarked; \"Hands tied, feet tied, their voices still free\". At Harney's signal, the carts holding the tied and noosed men pulled away. Harney refused to cut the bodies down, stating that \"I was ordered to have them hanged, and have no orders to \"unhang\" them\"; Harney was subsequently promoted to brigadier general, a post which he held while the U.S. Army occupied Mexico City. The Mexican government described the hangings as \"a cruel death or horrible torments, improper in a civilized age, and [ironic] for a people who aspire to the title of illustrious and humane\", and by a writer covering the war as \"a refinement of cruelty and ... fiendish\". George Ballentine remarked in his account of his American military service in Mexico that \"The desertion of our soldiers to the Mexican army ... were still numerous, in spite of the fearful example of the executions at Churubusco, [and] also served to inspire that party with hope\".\n\nThose who survived either made lives for themselves in Mexico or returned to their home nations such as Ireland. Some former San Patricios found work at the arsenal in Guadalajara making gun stocks. One former San Patricio, an Irishman, started a military academy teaching \"the sword exercise\", also in Guadalajara. Others were reportedly killed while travelling through Mexico, while others were reduced to living on handouts. A handful are on record as having made use of the land claims promised them by the Mexican government. Americans in Mexico who had been taken prisoner by Mexico or who were common deserters were known to falsely present themselves as members of the Saint Patrick's Battalion; American William W. Carpenter, who found himself in this predicament, stated that: \"the reputation of the San Patricio battalion was spread from ocean to ocean, and to that, more than any thing else, do I owe my present safety\".\n\nThe men have continued to be honored and revered as heroes in Mexico. The \"Batallón de San Patricio\" is memorialised on two separate days; 12 September, the generally accepted anniversary of the executions of those battalion members captured by the U.S. Army, and 17 March, Saint Patrick's Day. Numerous schools, churches and other landmarks in Mexico take their name from the battalion, including:\n\nIn the U.S. the memory of the battalion has been different. In Winfield Scott's 1852 run for president of the United States, his treatment of the San Patricios was brought up by his opponents to sway Irish American voters. The U.S. Army long denied the existence of the Saint Patrick's battalion as a cover-up and attempt to discourage other deserters. In 1915 an inquiry was initiated by U.S. congressmen William Henry Coleman and Frank L. Greene. This resulted in the U.S. Army's admitting its denial of the matter. The U.S. Congress ordered the army to turn over its records on the battalion to the National Archives. In 1999, MGM cancelled the U.S. distribution of a film depicting the battalion, \"One Man's Hero\".\n\nIn 1997, President Ernesto Zedillo commemorated the 150th anniversary of the execution of the San Patricios at a ceremony in Mexico City's San Jacinto Plaza. This is where the U.S. Army conducted the first 16 hangings after the men were convicted of desertion at court martial. Ireland and Mexico jointly issued commemorative postage stamps to mark the anniversary.\n\nIn 2004, at an official ceremony attended by numerous international dignitaries including directors Lance and Jason Hool, as well as several actors from the film \"One Man's Hero\" (1999), the Mexican government gave a commemorative statue to the Irish government in perpetual thanks for the bravery, honor and sacrifice of the Saint Patrick's Battalion. The statue was erected in Clifden, Connemara, Ireland, where leader John Riley was born. In honor of John Riley, on 12 September the town of Clifden flies the Mexican flag. In 2014, Sinn Féin named a cumann in Clifden in honor of John O'Reilly.\nThe battalion has inspired numerous responses: it is the name of a soccer team Club Deportivo Chivas USA's Supporters Association, was evoked in a Saint Patrick's Day message from Subcomandante Marcos of the Zapatista Army of National Liberation, and has been remembered as a symbol of international solidarity with Mexico.\n\n\n\na. The coats were Turkish-blue with yellow lapels and crimson-red cuffs as well as piping. The trousers were sky-blue with red piping. Officers wore black or blue Kepis and privates wore dark-blue cloth barracks caps, with red tassels similar to a Fez, also with red piping.\n\nb. Variably spelled in English as John Reily, Riely, Reilly, O'Reily and O'Reilly. His name is given as Juan Reyle, Reley, Reely and Reiley in Mexican army documents written in Spanish. Regardless of other variant spellings, the name was Seán Ó Raghailligh in the original Irish Gaelic.\n\nc. See articles 1st Venezuelan Rifles, Bernardo O'Higgins, Daniel Florencio O'Leary, Juan O'Donojú, Morgan O'Connell, & William Lamport.\n\nd. Monterrey is here spelled \"Monterey\" as it appears in the Personal Memoirs of Ulysses S. Grant (Not to be confused with Monterey of the Battle of Monterey, also in the Mexican–American War).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38014211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38014211", "title": "School resource officer", "text": "School resource officer\n\nThe United States Department of Justice defines School resource officers (SRO) as “sworn law enforcement officers responsible for safety and crime prevention in schools.” SROs are typically employed by a local police or sheriff's agency and work closely with administrators in an effort to create a safer environment for both students and staff. The responsibilities of SROs are similar to regular police officers in that they have the ability to make arrests, respond to calls for service, and document incidents. School resource officers typically have additional duties, including mentoring and conducting presentations on youth-related issues. SROs are not synonymous with school based law enforcement (SBLE) officers - which are typically employed by a school district's law enforcement agency, rather than local or city law enforcement - though they are often used interchangeably.\n\nThis article is primarily about SROs in the United States, though there are also SROs in Canada. In Australia, they are called Police School Liaison Officers and only exist at High School level.\n\nThe first documented SRO was placed in a school in Flint, Michigan in 1953. School. However, the topic was not broadly discussed until 1968, when the Fresno, California Police Department looked to the school resource officer program as a tool to “revitalize its image in the eyes of its youth”. This early adaptation of the program involved placing plainclothes officers in the middle and elementary schools to foster a relationship between the local police department and the youth, which continues to be a goal of the program. Since the 1970s, the role of SROs has shifted from mentorship/education to crime prevention and law enforcement. In the 1980s-90s, SROs facilitated crime prevention programs, such as Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.) and Gang Resistance Education and Training (G.R.E.A.T.). From the mid-1970s to 2008, the number of schools with police stationed on campus rose from approximately 1 percent to 40 percent.\" In many states SROs are the main enforcers and interpreters of the states' school disturbance laws.\n\nAlthough Fresno’s program began with non-uniformed officers, it has progressed into what is seen in most communities today: a uniformed officer operating a marked police vehicle, who is responsible for safety and security on the school property. This came after the federal Gun-Free Schools Act of 1994 passed by Congress in response to the country’s fear of juvenile and gang violence. As a result, schools created expansive “zero tolerance” policies that were enforced by an increasing presence of uniformed SROs on campus. In the late 1990s, SRO presence on campuses again increased after the Department of Justice created a $750 million grant program, Cops in School, to hire over 6,500 SROs.\n\nLike the United States, many secondary schools in Canada have hired security personnel to enhance the safety of staff and students. School systems, such as in Toronto, have engaged armed police officers to be in the school throughout the day. In 2008, the Toronto District School Board (TDSB) and the Toronto Catholic District School Board (TCDSB), in collaboration with the Toronto Police Service, institutionalized the SRO Program by permanently placing armed, uniformed police officers in secondary schools. However, in November 2017 the TDSB voted to eliminate the district's SRO program.\n\nDifferent governments, school districts, and professional agencies have varied descriptions for the purpose of SROs. The National Association for School Resource Officers details the SRO's role as threefold: 1) as an educator, 2) as an informal counselor or mentor and 3) as a law enforcement officer. The United States Department of Justice includes those three prongs, and adds 4) an emergency manager or planner for a school or district. Johns Hopkins University’s Center for Technology in Education aggregated SROs’ job descriptions across the country and identified seven comprehensive purposes for an SRO, including 1) provide law enforcement and investigation, 2) develop crime prevention programs, 3) training and securing school personnel, 4) establish a working relationship with school and students, 5) develop classes related to position, 6) assist students in conflict resolution, and 7) be a positive role model.\n\nIn addition, SROs’ are managed by different institutions depending on their location. At school, most SROs are treated as staff and report to the principal or other school administrators. When not at school, they are often managed by a law enforcement agency.\n\nCrime prevention is as a major component of being an SRO. However, critics suggest that putting more efforts into creating a safe environment through school related programs would be equally or even more effective in reducing crime. Between 2003 and 2007 there was an 8.9 percent decrease in the number of SROs in the United States but no increase in the number of reported offenses.\n\nIt is also believed that incidents in schools with SROs are under reported because school administrators or teachers will often simply contact the SRO when assistance is needed, reducing the number of calls received by 911 call centers.\n\nThe Safe School-based Enforcement through Collaboration, Understanding, and Respect (SECURe) rubrics were created through a partnership of the United States Department of Education and Department of Justice. SECURe provides plans for initiating or improving SRO/law enforcement relationships with schools.\n\nSECURe identifies five action items for schools and law enforcement agencies to collaborate:\n\nIn the 2015-16 school year, the following percentages of schools reported having one or more SROs at their school at least once per week:\nOverall, 42% of public schools host an SRO and an additional 10.9% host a sworn law enforcement officer, as of 2016. In towns (defined as a territory within an urban cluster) have the highest concentration of SROs as 57% of schools in towns host at least one SRO. This is compared to 45% of suburban schools and 36% of city schools. Almost a third of public schools that host an SRO are more than 80% black, while less than 42% of the schools that host an SRO are majority white.\n\nIt is difficult to tell if the presence of SROs is having an impact on the prevalence of crime in schools and communities, likely because it is difficult to show a causal relationship between the presence of law enforcement and crime rates. For example, in a 2018 study that compared Kentucky high schools that hosted an SRO to Kentucky high schools that did not, there was no statistically significant relationship between reported criminal violation rates and the presence of an SRO. However, a 2013 study that analyzed data across the United States found that schools that increase their use of police see an increase in reported crime. This conclusion aligns more closely with intuition because one of the stated goals of SROs is to develop better relationships between students, staff, and police officers which could mean that students and staff would be more comfortable reporting criminal activity to an officer.\n\nA 2012 report from the National Association of School Resource Officers sites national statistics that show a general decrease in juvenile crime and the violent-crime index since the early 2000s, when SROs became especially prominent in schools. They support this claim with a 2009 study that finds that “when the results were controlled for economic disadvantage, the presence of an SRO led to a 52.3% decrease in the arrest rate for assaults and a 72.9% decrease in arrests involving possession of a weapon on school property.” While this is true, having an SRO in the school also significantly increases the arrest rate for disorderly conduct, even when controlling for school poverty, a more subjective charge that relies considerably on the discretion of the arresting officer, as opposed to something like an assault or weapons charge that it much more objective. This result lends itself to the idea that the presence of an SRO may increase the criminalization of behaviors that could have been addressed in other ways. Further, the decrease in arrests for assault and weapon possession could be from a result of students avoiding the SROs and taking these activities off campus, not necessarily the result of them failing to commit these crimes at all. In another article, James Swift also refers to the report prepared by the Justice Policy Institute. His writing further indicates that the presence of school resource officers does not lead to a reduction in crime.\n\nThis is a similar problem with associating the presence of SROs with the decline in crime rates, overall. There are too many contributing factors to the occurrence of crime to draw a causal relationship between the presence of law enforcement and the crime rate.\n\nA 2017 study combined crime data from the U.S. Department of Education and interviews with 20 SROs to better understand how officers are spending their time between teaching, mentorship, and law enforcement. Overall, the study finds that while 75% of SROs perform law enforcement functions, only about half of SROs perform teaching or mentorship functions. The performance of these functions were also different based on the racial make-up and socio-economic status of the students at the schools. For example, at schools with students of lower socio-economic statuses, while SROs engaged in more mentorship than at schools with wealthier students, they also were more involved in school discipline and implemented more laws than at wealthier schools. The findings also indicated that SROs perform more law enforcement functions as the percentage of white students increase.\n\nIt is important to note that this information comes from a single study, so more research is needed to draw significant conclusions on SRO teaching and mentorship.\n\nA 2011 report from the Justice Policy Institute considered the cost of SROs as compared to other full time employees at secondary schools. An SRO is paid at the rate of a police detective, which in 2011 was paid an average of $63,294 per year. This salary was more than both the average teacher’s salary and average school counselor’s salary in 2011. Opponents of SROs often cite this as a reason to not employ an SRO, as it may strain an already tight school budget. However, in some cases, law enforcement agencies have been known to split the cost of employing an SRO with the district. There are also grant opportunities available through the Community Oriented Policing Solutions office under the Department of Justice. Those grants made their first major impact in 2000 when the grants provided money to employee almost 600 School resource officers in 289 different communities.\n\nBecause SROs are responsible for a number of tasks outside of normal duties for law enforcement officials, it has become common practice to establish a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the school district and the local law enforcement agency. These MOUs tend to vary in content based on the needs of the school district, but common ideas include the specified mission of the SRO, the organizational structure, and goals and procedures for the SRO. Other MOUs are more specific and include day-to-day duties of the SRO, where the SRO would be located in the school building, how an SRO will be selected, who is responsible for training, and chain-of-command issues. The National Association of School Resource Officers provides a helpful guideline and questions that should be reflected in an MOU to ensure the safety of students and to guard against legal action that could be taken against the law enforcement agency and/or the school.\n\nMOUs often fall short in clearly defining the school’s role and the SRO’s role in student discipline and maintaining a safe environment. As a result, an SRO may find himself/herself making decisions in the moment that disrupt the balance between student safety and students’ rights. Kimberly Small, Assistant General Counsel for the Illinois Association of School Boards, recommends specifying policies, in line with applicable laws, on issues of “search and seizure, questioning of students, and requests for student records.”\n\nWhile the federal government does not have specific laws regarding the use of SROs, the U.S. Department of Education and Department of Justice created the Safe School-based Enforcement through Collaboration, Understanding, and Respect (SECURe) rubrics to help provide guidance to school districts.\n\nStudents can, however, file civil rights claims against School Resource Officers. Kerrin Wolf, an Assistant Professor of Law at Stockton University, reviewed a series of Supreme Court decisions that have shaped the federal civil rights of students while in school. In her paper, she explores the ways in which students’ rights are limited in three dimensions while in school: rights against search and seizure, interrogation rights, and free speech rights. \n\nOnly eight U.S. states currently have laws on the books regarding School Resource Officers and/or police in schools. Generally, these laws only cover the definition of an SRO and mandate training. However, in November 2016, New Jersey signed into law Bill S86, which allows schools to hire retired law enforcement officers as SROs under the condition that they receive no benefits, can work full-time hours, are no older than age 65, and retired within three years of application to the SRO program.\n\nThere have also been a number of incidents in the United States in which school resource officers and/or police officers called into schools are reported to have used excessive force against students. Some of those incidents include:\nThese incidents are among many that have caused significant concern over the ability of schools to control the actions of school resource officers and other police officers when they are asked to intervene in student conflicts.\nSRO's are not governed by the school board. They are controlled by the laws of the state in which they work and their agencies policies and procedures. When the law is broken by a perpetrator and there is a victim of a crime, charges must be brought. It is not the choice of school staff whether a law enforcement officer can act in filing charges.\n\nStudent Resource Officers are becoming more commonplace in American and Canadian schools, leading to increasing concerns that their presence in secondary schools could prematurely expose adolescents to the Criminal Justice System. School districts across the United States are implementing criminal justice system practices in order to achieve a safe schooling environment; however, this comes at the cost of exposing youth/adolescents to the criminal justice system and tarnishing their educational achievements for situations that in the past would likely have been handled through disciplinary action within the school. This is seen by some as contributing to the school to prison pipeline.\n\nA criticism of school resource officer programs pertains to the rate of juvenile arrests. In a 2011 article by Amanda Petteruti issued by the Justice Policy Institute, information is presented that indicates that school referrals to the juvenile justice system have increased with the presence of SROs. A high percentage of those referrals were for minor offenses that may have been handled by the administration had an SRO not been present. This concern has attracted attention and some studies indicate that the use of the Juvenile Justice System for minor offenses aids in a phenomenon known as the \"School to Prison Pipeline\" (pg. 13).\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) suggests that SRO programs should be designed to provide a different response for disciplinary matters as opposed to criminal offenses that occur on school grounds. This recommendation was intended to ensure that juveniles were not receiving disparate treatment based upon the presence of a law enforcement officer within their school.\n\nThe February 14, 2018 shooting which killed 17 people at Stoneman Douglas High School brought renewed attention to the topic of police in schools. The police officer assigned to the school resigned shortly after the shooting under criticism of not entering the school building while the student was shooting. Given the frequency with which school shootings occur in the United States, critics of SRO programs are asking if it is necessary to have armed police officers in schools, if they cannot ensure students' safety during crises.\n\nThe shooter in Maryland's Great Mills High School attack on March 20, 2018, was neutralized following swift action by the school's resource officer, Blaine Gaskill. As CNN put it: \"Gaskill's response was hailed as an example of exactly what a resource officer is supposed to do in such a circumstance, particularly when contrasted to the actions of the security officer in last month's shooting in Parkland, Florida.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "985037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985037", "title": "Sergey Nechayev", "text": "Sergey Nechayev\n\nSergey Gennadiyevich Nechayev (or Nyechayev; ) (October 2, 1847 – November 21 or December 3, 1882) was a Russian revolutionary associated with the Nihilist movement and known for his single-minded pursuit of revolution by any means necessary, including terrorism. He was the author of the radical \"Catechism of a Revolutionary.\"\n\nHe fled Russia in 1869 after having been involved in the murder of a former comrade. Complicated relationships with fellow revolutionaries caused him to be expelled from the First International. Arrested in Switzerland in 1872, he was sent back to Russia, received a 20-year sentence and died in prison.\n\nThe character Pyotr Verkhovensky in Dostoyevsky's anti-nihilistic novel, \"Demons\", is based on Nechayev.\n\nSergey Nechayev was born in Ivanovo, then a small textile town, to poor parents—his father was a waiter and sign painter. His mother died when he was eight. His father remarried and had two more sons. They lived in a three-room house with his two sisters and grandparents. They were ex serfs who had moved to Ivanovo. He had already developed an awareness of social inequality and a resentment of the local nobility in his youth. At 10, Sergey had learned his father's trades—waiting at banquets and painting signs. His father got him a job as an errand boy in a factory, but Sergey refused the servant's job. His family paid for good tutors who taught him Latin, German, French, History, Maths and Rhetoric.\n\nIn 1865 at age 18, Nechayev moved to Moscow, where he worked for the historian Mikhael Pogodin. A year later, he moved to St. Petersburg, passed a teacher's exam and began teaching at a parish school. From September 1868, Nechayev attended lectures at St. Petersburg University (as an auditor, he was never enrolled) and became acquainted with the subversive Russian literature of the Decembrists, the Petrashevsky Circle, and Mikhail Bakunin, among others, as well as the growing student unrest at the university. Nechaev was even said to have slept on bare wood and lived on black bread in imitation of Rakhmetov, the ascetic revolutionary in Chernyshevsky's novel \"What Is to Be Done?\".\n\nInspired by the failed attempt on the Tsar's life by Karakozov, Nechayev participated in student activism in 1868–1869, leading a radical minority with Petr Tkachev and others. Nechayev took part in devising this student movement's \"Program of revolutionary activities\", which stated later a social revolution as its ultimate goal. The program also suggested ways for creating a revolutionary organization and conducting subversive activities. In particular, the program envisioned composition of the \"Catechism of a Revolutionary\", for which Nechayev would become famous.\nIn December 1868 he met Vera Zasulich (who would make an assassination attempt on General Trepov, governor of St. Petersburg in 1878) at a teachers' meeting. He asked her to come to his school where he held candlelit readings of revolutionary tracts. He would place pictures of Robespierre and Saint-Just on the table while reading. At these meetings he plotted to assassinate the Tsar on the 9th anniversary of serfdom's abolition.\n\nThe last of these student meetings occurred on January 28, 1869. Nechayev presented a petition calling for freedom of assembly for students. 97 did, though he wouldn't say what he'd do with the petition. Two days later, he handed it to the police, intending to radicalize the students through prison and exile.\n\nIn January 1869, Nechayev spread false rumors of his arrest in St. Petersburg, then left for Moscow before heading abroad. He tried to get Zasulich to emigrate with him by declaring love for her, yet she refused. He sent her a letter claiming to have been arrested. In Geneva, Switzerland, he pretended to be a representative of a revolutionary committee who had fled from the Peter and Paul Fortress, and he won the confidence of revolutionary-in-exile Mikhail Bakunin (who called him 'my boy') and his friend and collaborator Nikolai Ogarev. Ogarev, on Bakunin's suggestion, dedicated a poem to Nechayev:\n\nBakunin saw in Nechayev the authentic voice of Russian youth, which he regarded as \"the most revolutionary in the world\". He would hold onto this idealised vision long after his association with Nechayev became damaging to him.\n\nOgarev, Bakunin and Nechayev organized a propaganda campaign of subversive material to be sent to Russia, financed by Ogarev from the so-called \"Bakhmetiev Fund\", which had been intended for subsidizing their own revolutionary activities. Alexander Herzen disliked Nechayev's fanaticism and strongly opposed the campaign, believing Nechayev was influencing Bakunin toward more extreme rhetoric. However, Herzen relented to hand over much of the fund to Nechayev, which he was to take to Russia to mobilise support for the revolution.\nNechayev had a list of 387 people who were sent 560 parcels of leaflets for distribution April–August 1869. The idea was that the activists would be caught, punished and radicalized. Amongst these people was Vera Zasulich, who got five years exile because of a crudely coded letter sent by Nechayev.\n\nIn late spring 1869, Nechayev wrote \"Catechism of a Revolutionary\", a program for the \"merciless destruction\" of society and the state. The main principle of the \"Catechism\"—\"the ends justify the means\"—became Nechayev's slogan throughout his revolutionary career. He saw ruthless immorality in the pursuit of total control by Church and State, and believed that the struggle against them must therefore be carried out by any means necessary, with an unwavering focus on their destruction. The individual self is to be subsumed by a greater purpose in a kind of spiritual asceticism, which for Nechayev was far more than just a theory, but the guiding principle by which he lived his life. According to the \"Catechism\",\nThe book was to influence generations of radicals, and was re-published by the Black Panther Party in 1969 – one hundred years after its original publication. It also influenced the formation of the militant Red Brigades in Italy the same year.\n\nHaving left Russia illegally, Nechayev had to sneak back to Moscow via Romania in August 1869 with help from Bakunin's underground contacts. On the way he met Christo Botev, a Bulgarian revolutionary. In Moscow he lived an austere life, spending the fund only on political activities. He pretended to be a proxy of the Russian department of the \"Worldwide Revolutionary Union\" (which didn't exist) and created an affiliate of a secret society called \"People's Reprisal Society\" (Общество народной расправы); it issued the magazine \"Narodnaya Rasprava\" (Народная расправа, \"People's Reprisal\"). He claimed that the society had existed for quite some time in every corner of Russia. He spoke passionately to student dissidents about the need to organise. Marxist writer Vera Zasulich (whose sister Alexandra sheltered him in Moscow) recalls that when she first met Nechayev, he immediately tried to recruit her:\n\nMany were impressed by the young proletarian and joined the group. However, the already fanatical Nechayev appeared to be becoming more distrustful of the people around him, even denouncing Bakunin as doctrinaire, \"idly running off at the mouth and on paper\". One \"Narodnaya Rasprava\" member, I. I. Ivanov, disagreed with Nechayev about the distribution of propaganda, and left the group. On November 21, 1869, Nechayev and several comrades beat, strangled and shot Ivanov, hiding the body in a lake through a hole in the ice.\n\nThe body was soon found, and some of his colleagues arrested, but Nechayev eluded capture, and left for Saint Petersburg in late November where he tried to continue his activities to create a clandestine society. On December 15, 1869, he fled the country, heading back to Geneva.\n\nThis incident was fictionalised by writer Fyodor Dostoyevsky in his anti-nihilistic novel, \"Demons\", published three years later, in which the character, Pyotr Stepanovich Verkhovensky, is based on Nechayev.\n\nBakunin and Ogarev embraced Nechayev on his return to Switzerland in January 1870 — Bakunin wrote \"I so jumped for joy that I nearly smashed the ceiling with my old head!\" Soon after their reunion, Herzen died (21 January 1870), and a large fund from his personal wealth became available to Nechayev to continue his political activities. Nechayev issued a number of proclamations aimed at different strata of the Russian population. Together with Ogarev, he published the \"Kolokol\" magazine (April–May, 1870, issues 1 to 6). In his article \"The Fundamentals of the Future Social System\" (Главные основы будущего общественного строя), published in the \"People's Reprisal\" (1870, №2), Nechayev shared his vision of a communist system which Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels would later call \"barracks communism\".\n\nNechayev's suspicion of his comrades had grown even greater, and he began stealing letters and private papers with which to blackmail Bakunin and his fellow exiles should the need arise. He enlisted the help of Herzen's daughter Natalie. While not clearly breaking with Nechayev, Bakunin rebuked Nechayev upon discovery of his duplicity: \"Lies, cunning [and] entanglement [are] a necessary and marvelous means for demoralising and destroying the enemy, though \"certainly not\" a useful means of obtaining and attracting new friends\". Bakunin then threatened Nechayev with breaking relations with him and with his (perhaps inexistent) organization.\n\nAs a consequence of these considerations and in spite of all that has happened between us, I would wish not only to remain allied with you, but to make this union even closer and firmer, on condition that you will change the system entirely and will make mutual trust, sincerity and truth the foundation of our future relations. Otherwise the break between us is inevitable.\" \nNevertheless, he began warning friends about Nechayev's behaviour.\n\nThe General Council of the foremost left-wing organisation, the First International of 1864–1876, officially dissociated themselves from Nechayev, claiming he had abused the name of the organisation. After writing a letter to a publisher on Bakunin's behalf, threatening to kill the publisher if he didn't release Bakunin from a contract, Nechayev became even more isolated from his comrades. First International member German Lopatin accused him of theoretical unscrupulousness and pernicious behaviour, prompting Ogarev and Bakunin to publicly claim to have severed their relations with him in 1870. However privately Bakunin continued to write to Nechayev proposing that they continue to work together. \n\nIn September 1870, as the Second French Empire of Napoleon III collapsed, Nechayev published an issue of the \"Commune\" magazine in London; later, hiding from the tsarist police, he went underground in Paris and then in Zurich. He also kept in touch with the Polish Blanquists, such as Caspar Turski and others. In September 1872 Karl Marx produced the threatening letter (which Nechayev had written to the publisher) at the Hague Congress of the First International at which Bakunin was also expelled from the organisation.\n\nOn August 14, 1872, Nechayev was arrested in Zurich and handed over to the Russian police. He was found guilty on January 8, 1873, and sentenced to 20 years of \"katorga\" (hard labor) for killing Ivanov. Nechayev, while locked up in a ravelin of the Peter and Paul Fortress, managed to win over his guards with the strength of his convictions, and by the late 1870s he was using them to pass on correspondence with revolutionaries on the outside. In December 1880 Nechayev established contact with the Executive Committee of \" Narodnaya Volya\" (\"The People’s Will\") and proposed a plan for his own escape. However, he abandoned the plan due to his unwillingness to distract the efforts of the members of \"Narodnaya Volya\" from attempting to assassinate the Emperor Alexander II (which they achieved in March 1881).\n\nVera Zasulich, who ten years earlier had been among those investigated for Ivanov's murder, heard that in 1877 the head of the St. Petersburg police, General Trepov, had ordered the flogging of Aleksei Bogolyubov, a young political prisoner. Though not a follower of Nechayev, she felt outraged at his mistreatment and at the plight of other political prisoners: she walked into Trepov's office and shot and wounded him (). In an indication of the popular political feeling of the time, a jury found her not guilty on the grounds that she had acted out of noble intent.\n\nIn 1882 Nechayev died in his cell.\n\nDespite his personal courage and fanatical dedication to the revolutionary cause, Nechayev's methods (later called \"Nechayevshchina\") were viewed to have caused harm to the Russian revolutionary movement by endangering clandestine organizations. The playwright Edvard Radzinsky suggests that many revolutionaries have successfully implemented Nechayev's methods and ideas – including Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59100478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59100478", "title": "Seven Star Movement", "text": "Seven Star Movement\n\nSeven Star Movement (, ) is an unregistered political party in Finland founded in 2018. The party was founded by Paavo Väyrynen, its president and only MP, after he was ousted from his previous party, Citizens' Party.\n\nPaavo Väyrynen had successfully run for the Finnish Parliament in the Finnish parliamentary election, 2015, representing the Centre Party. Väyrynen, however, chose to forfeit his seat in order to serve in the European Parliament that he had entered earlier. Väyrynen returned to the Finnish Parliament in June 2018, but defected from the Centre Party to Citizens' Party which he had founded. The party was, however, already at that time engulfed in a power struggle that resulted in Väyrynen's ouster. In late June, Väyrynen announced that he had founded the Seven Star Movement as a substitute for Citizens' Party, with which he remained in the parliament for a time. The name is inspired by the populist Italian Five Star Movement. The Seven Star Movement's goals are political independence, non-alignment, and greater immigration control.\n\nA trial court ruled in November 2018 that Väyrynen's ouster had been illegal. Despite the ruling, the legal woes promoted Väyrynen to go forward with his Seven Star Movement rather than Citizens' Party. Later that month, Väyrynen announced that he had officially aligned himself with the , whose only MP he became. Väyrynen is the president of the party. The secretary is Seppo Hauta-aho, Väyrynen's former campaign aide. The party is based in Helsinki.\n\nThe movement is gathering supporter cards in order to be admitted to the . , it has 3,500 out of the required 5,000 cards. The party plans to take part in the Finnish parliamentary election, 2019 and the European Parliamentary election the same year. Väyrynen himself has stated that he is \"possibly\" running for parliament but not for the European Parliament because his wife, Vuokko Väyrynen, has been diagnosed with plasma cell myeloma.\n\n"}
{"id": "43849927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43849927", "title": "Shapiro–Stiglitz theory", "text": "Shapiro–Stiglitz theory\n\nIn labour economics, Shapiro–Stiglitz theory of efficiency wages (or Shapiro–Stiglitz efficiency wage model) is an economic theory of wages and unemployment in labour market equilibrium. It provides a technical description of why wages are unlikely to fall and how involuntary unemployment appears. This theory was first developed by Carl Shapiro and Joseph Stiglitz.\n\nWhen full employment is achieved, if a worker is sacked, she automatically finds her next job soon. In the circumstances, she does not need to exert her effort in her job, and thus full employment necessarily motivates a worker to shirk provided that she is happy with loafing on the job. Since shirking makes a firm's productivity decline, the firm needs to offer its workers higher wages to eliminate shirking. Then all firms try to eliminate shirking, which pushes up average wages and decreases employment. Hence nominal wages tend to display downward rigidity. In equilibrium, all firms pay the same wage above market clearing, and unemployment makes job loss costly, and so unemployment serves as a worker-discipline device. A jobless person cannot convince an employer that she works at a wage lower than the equilibrium wage, because the owner worries that shirking occurs after she is hired. As a result, her unemployment becomes involuntary.\n\nSuppose utility is a function of wages w and effort e like formula_1, and workers maximise the utility function with a discount rate r. \nThen let b be the probability per unit time that a worker is dismissed from his job, and now we introduce the expected lifetime utility formula_2 of an unemployed individual. Then we find the asset value of employment during a short interval [0, T] \nbecause the worker is either dismissed or kept employed during the time. The exponential function appears, because the occasion of dismiss in the interval is once and Poisson distribution is used for the discount rate. Due to the short interval, we approximate the exponential function by 1-rT \nand simple calculation yields\nThen we find the fundamental asset equation of a worker:\nFor a nonshirker the equation is\nand for a shirker \nwhere q is the probability per unit time that a worker is caught shirking and sacked. Then we see \nThe condition formula_12 is called the no-shirking condition (NSC), which is expressed as \nwhere formula_14 is the critical wage. The worker works hard if and only if the NSC is satisfied. Thus if workers get sufficiently high wages, then the NSC is met and they will not shirk. The condition tells us that\n\nLet formula_15 be the probability of getting a job per unit time. In equilibrium, the flow into the unemployment pool must be equal to the flow out. Thus the probability is \nwhere formula_17 is the aggregate employment and formula_18 is the total labour supply. In reality, an employee is offered his minimum wage formula_19 or its equivalent by law. Thus the NSC becomes \nand we call it the aggregate NSC. These two yields \nwhere the unemployment rate is formula_22. This constraint suggests that full employment always should involve shirking.\n\nThe aggregate production function formula_23 is a function of total effective labour force. \n\nA firm's labour demand is given by equating the cost of hiring an additional employee to the marginal product of labour. This cost consists of wages and future unemployment benefits. Now consider the case where formula_24 , then we have \nIn equilibrium, formula_26 holds, where formula_27 is the equilibrium wage. \nThen the equilibrium condition becomes \nThis suggests following things. \n\nThe level of employment is changed by rules about job security. Let us consider a firm which consists of an employer and homogeneous employees. Then, suppose the profit of the firm is a function of the level of employment N, the lowest wage formula_31 and the level of monitoring M chosen by the employer. \nwhere g(N) is the production function, L is the value of on-the-job leisure from shirking, and p is the probability that an employee is caught shirking and sacked. Assume that the production function has the upper limit and its second derivative with respect to N is negative. Not to mention, the first derivative is positive. That is a reasonable assumption that the function has its upper bound in term of productivity. Consider, for instance, such a function of time as \nObviously its first derivative is positive, and second derivative is negative.\n\nLet R be a measure of the difficulty of dismissing an employee who is caught shirking. Then p is a function of both R and M. The first and second derivatives of the profit with regard to N are:\nThe condition for the maximum of the profit is formula_36, and so we have \nThus differentiating its both sides with regard to R gives us \nIt turns out that formula_39 is negative, which means that the more difficult to sack a shirker the lower employment level.\n\n"}
{"id": "27641468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27641468", "title": "Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament", "text": "Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament\n\nThe Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament (TNCD) was designed to address the issue of nuclear disarmament during the Cold War. Created through the combination of a United Nations resolution and an agreement between the Big Four powers, the TNCD began work in March 1960. It remained intact from March - June 1960.\n\nThe 1960 Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament grew out of the 1959 Big Four meeting in Berlin. At the meeting, the Big Four powers (United States, United Kingdom, France, Soviet Union) decided to resume previously halted disarmament talks and establish a new international negotiating forum. Out of this agreement came the authority for a September 7, 1959 United Nations (UN) resolution of the UN Disarmament Commission, which created the Ten Nation Committee on Disarmament. The short-lived TNCD officially began its work in Geneva, Switzerland on March 15, 1960.\n\nThe TNCD's work was divided into two short sessions. The first spanned the period from March 15 - April 29, 1960, on the 29th the committee halted work because of the concurrent Paris Summit. The hiatus lasted until June 7, 1960 when the TNCD reconvened, once again in Geneva. The TNCD's second session was also short. On June 28, 1960 the committee adjourned indefinitely in the aftermath of the failure at the Paris Summit and the U-2 spy plane incident.\n\nThe committee was based on equal representation and included five Warsaw Pact nations and five NATO nations.\n\nOriginal members of TNCD: (Western Bloc) - Canada, France, Great Britain, Italy, United States. (Eastern Bloc) - Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania, Soviet Union.\n\nThe TNCD (1960) was one of several predecessors to the current UN disarmament organization, the Conference on Disarmament (CD). The TNCD preceded the Eighteen Nation Committee on Disarmament (1962-69), which was succeeded by the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (CCD) (1969-78) until the CD was formed in 1979.\n"}
{"id": "2031965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2031965", "title": "Turkish Democratic Party of Kosovo", "text": "Turkish Democratic Party of Kosovo\n\nThe Turkish Democratic Party of Kosovo () is a conservative political party in Kosovo that represents the Turkish minority. It is led by Mahir Yağcılar, the Minister of Environment and Spatial Planning in Hashim Thaçi government.\n\nIt was founded as Turkish Democratic Union (\"Türk Demokratik Birliği\") on 19 July 1990 in Prizren and changed its name to the Turkish Democratic Party of Kosovo on 20 June 2001 under UNMIK. The party's seat is in Prizren and has Mamuša as a stronghold.\n\nAt the 2004 legislative elections, the Turkish Democratic Party of Kosovo won 1.2% of the popular vote and 3 out of 120 seats. At the 2007 elections, the party kept its 3 seats in the Assembly of Kosovo, one being from the main list of candidates (Mahir Yağcılar) and two being seats reserved for the Turkish minority (Enis Kervan, Müfera Şinik).\n\n"}
{"id": "2350555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2350555", "title": "Vigil of the Princes", "text": "Vigil of the Princes\n\nThe Vigil of the Princes refers to two occasions when male members of the British Royal Family \"stood guard\" during the lying in state of one of their relatives during or as part of a British state funeral or ceremonial funeral.\n\nKing Edward VIII; Prince Albert, Duke of York (Future King George VI); Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester; and Prince George, Duke of Kent, took guard on 27 January 1936 at the lying-in-state of their father, George V. (A fifth son, Prince John, predeceased his father in 1919). The vigil took place after Westminster Hall was closed to the public for the evening.\n\nNo known photographic record of this event exists, though a painting was made of it after the King's funeral. The oil painting was produced by Frank Beresford as the official painting of the King's lying-in-state, and was exhibited for the first time at the Royal Academy exhibition of 1936 at Burlington House. The painting, named \"The Princes' Vigil: 12.15am, January 28, 1936\", was subsequently purchased by Queen Mary to give to her son Edward VIII on his birthday. In the painting, the King is depicted wearing the uniform of the Grenadier Guards, of whom he was the Colonel-in-Chief, the Duke of Gloucester wears the full dress uniform of the 10th Royal Hussars (the regiment in which he served), while the Duke of Kent is in Ceremonial Day Dress uniform of the Royal Navy. The Duke of York is unseen fully in the painting, although at the end of the catafalque opposite the King is a figure in full Foot Guards uniform; at this point in time, the Duke of York served as Colonel of the Regiment of the Scots Guards.\n\nCharles, Prince of Wales; Prince Andrew, Duke of York; Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex; and David Armstrong-Jones, Viscount Linley, took guard at 16:40 UTC on 8 April 2002 at the lying-in-state of their grandmother, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother (widow of King George VI; daughter-in-law of King George V). The four relieved the guard of the Royal Company of Archers, and were themselves relieved by the Yeomen of the Guard after their twenty-minute vigil. Both the Prince of Wales and the Duke of York wore naval uniform, while the Earl of Wessex and Lord Linley wore black morning dress; the Earl of Wessex served in the Royal Marines, but chose to leave before completing basic training, while Lord Linley has never served in the forces. Present during the Changing of the Guard were the Prince of Wales' two sons, Prince William and Prince Harry.\n\nQueen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh have four children, Charles, Prince of Wales; Anne, Princess Royal; Prince Andrew, Duke of York; and Prince Edward, Earl of Wessex. They have four grandsons and four granddaughters. The official plans for the Queen's funeral, Operation London Bridge, call for the Queen's children to stand vigil over their mother's coffin, as well for the grandsons and granddaughters to do the same. Should the Duke of Edinburgh lie in state, he may receive the same homage, however he has indicated he does not want the \"fuss\" of a full state funeral.\n\n"}
{"id": "24042952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24042952", "title": "World Summit on Food Security 2009", "text": "World Summit on Food Security 2009\n\nThe World Summit on Food Security took place in Rome, Italy between 16 and 18 November 2009. The decision to convene the summit was taken by the Council of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) in June 2009, at the proposal of FAO Director-General Dr Jacques Diouf. Sixty Heads of State and Government and 192 ministers, from 182 countries and the European Community, attended the summit, which took place at FAO's headquarters.\n\nThe FAO says the global food security situation has worsened and continues to represent a serious threat. There are 1 billion chronically hungry people in the world and recent reports say this number could grow by 100 million in 2009. Food prices remain stubbornly high in developing countries, while the global economic crisis is aggravating the situation by affecting jobs and deepening poverty.\n\nThe Summit adopted unanimously a declaration committing all the nations of the world to eradicate hunger at the earliest possible date. It pledged to substantially increase aid to agriculture in developing countries, so that the world's 1 billion hungry can become more self-sufficient. The declaration confirmed the current target for reducing hunger by half by 2015.\nCountries agreed to work to reverse the decline in domestic and international funding for agriculture and promote new investment in the sector, to improve governance of global food issues in partnership with relevant stakeholders from the public and private sector, and to face the challenges of climate change to food security.\n\nFAO announced in July that Saudi Arabia had agreed to meet the costs of the Summit, estimated at $2.5 million. The offer was made during an official visit to the country by Diouf.\n\nThe outcomes of three related events taking place just ahead of the Summit contributed to the debate—a private-sector forum (Milan, 12–13 November), an inter-parliamentary meeting (Rome, 13 November) and a civil society forum (Rome, 14–16 November).\n\nFAO says three events in October 2009 prepared the ground for the Summit. These were: a High-level Expert Forum on How to Feed to World in 2050, from 12–13 October; the Committee on World Food Security, from 14 to 17 October; and World Food Day on 16 October.\n\nThe launch of the 1 billion hungry campaign a week prior to the event. \n\nFAO Director-General Jacques Diouf told a pre-Summit Private Sector Forum on 12 November that the importance of the private sector has increased due to privatization, globalization and the transformation of the food chain.\n\nOn the eve of the summit, FAO Director-General began a 24-hour hunger strike to call for action to end the scourge of hunger and in solidarity with the one billion humans who suffer chronic malnutrition. He called on \"people of goodwill everywhere\" to join him in a worldwide hunger strike this weekend.\n\nFAO on Monday 16 November 2009, said that agreeing a climate change deal in Copenhagen at the COP15 ( 7–18 December 2009) is crucial to fighting global hunger, which Brazil's president described as \"the most devastating weapon of mass destruction.\"\n\n\n"}
