{"id": "41194388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41194388", "title": "Aaron McDuffie Moore", "text": "Aaron McDuffie Moore\n\nAaron McDuffie Moore, M.D. (September 6, 1863 – April 29, 1923) was the first Black medical doctor of Durham, North Carolina, USA, and a prominent leader in the African-American community based in the part of the city known as Hayti. He is best known for founding the Lincoln Hospital, a medical facility that served Negro patients during a time of racial segregation. Moore was also instrumental to the incorporation of North Carolina Mutual Life Company, which became the largest black-owned business in the country, and the improvement of North Carolina's rural school education. Through philanthropic works and business enterprises, Dr. Moore played a significant role in improving the standard of living of African Americans in Durham. He also overcame racial discrimination, bridging the White and Black communities in Durham in addition to improving its healthcare and economy.\n\nAaron McDuffie Moore was born on September 6, 1863, in Rosindale, North Carolina, to Israel Moore and Anna Eliza Spaulding Moore. Since the early nineteenth century, the Moore family, of African-Indian-European descent had owned land in Columbus County as free farmers. Like his nine siblings: 4 boys and 5 girls, Aaron Moore alternated between working on the family farm (during the harvesting and planting seasons) and attending the segregated county school. Upon completing 8th grade, Moore became a teacher at the same county school. He entered Whitin Normal School, in Lumberton, followed by the Normal School at Fayetteville to further his education. These institutions were both focused on teacher training, as education was considered key for freedmen's progress and there was an effort to develop black teachers for segregated schools across the state. However, after completing his first term at the latter, Moore was summoned home by his father to help on the farm.\n\nAmbitious beyond farming, Moore enrolled in 1885 in the newly established Shaw University, a historically black college in Raleigh, intending to become a professor. But, encouraged by his teachers who saw his promise, Moore entered the University's Leonard Medical School. Completing the prescribed 4 years of medical education in 3 years, Aaron Moore came before the Medical Examiners of the State of North Carolina in 1888. He passed the examinations and ranked second among the 46 candidates, 30 of whom were white. Having been certified as a Doctor of Medicine, Dr. Moore decided to practice in Durham, where he was the city's first Black medical doctor.\n\nIn 1889, Dr. Moore married Cottie S. Dancy, niece of John C. Dancy, a leading African-American Republican in North Carolina. They had a family together.\n\nMoore became interested in politics and was nominated for the office of coroner of Durham County in 1888. However, his campaign was met with much resistance from the white community, as shown by coverage in the \"Durham Recorder\": \"White men of Durham, those who have any respect for the Anglo-Saxon race, will you fail your duty on the 6th of November? Will you allow Negro rule or a white man's government?\"\n\nDr. Moore was in a campaign marked by racial discrimination, as were many in those years. Whites were still struggling to maintain dominance; by the end of the century while in control of the state legislature, they passed a constitution that essentially disfranchised blacks, a situation that persisted until federal legislation of the mid-1960s to enforce constitutional rights for minorities. Dismayed by the antagonism, Moore withdrew from the campaign and settled for supporting candidates who served the Durham community's interest.\n\nIn 1895 Dr. Moore began to invest in new black-owned businesses, to enable the community to develop its own skilled educated class and provide jobs for them. The Durham Drug Company was the first of his many ventures. The pharmacy gave young black pharmacists an opportunity to practice and served Durham's African-American community with dignity and excellence. While the pharmacy never made much of a profit, earning profits was not Moore's chief goal. Instead, he made his priority the provision of affordable drugs to the Negro community. He believed that the \"Negro business movement\" was a means to achieve racial self-fulfillment. He became involved in numerous other black business ventures in Durham following this maiden enterprise. Through this work, Moore established strong relationships with significant figures such as John Merrick, with whom he would later found the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company.\n\nIn October 1898, Dr. Moore, John Merrick and six other Black men gathered in Moore's office to organize an insurance association. They intended \"to aid Negro families in distress\" by this enterprise. They were inspired by similar associations organized by blacks in Richmond, Virginia, in 1893 and 1894. During the meeting, each man pledged $50 to the association. They agreed to draw up a charter for the business, to be \"presented as a bill before the State Assembly\" in January 1899. With the charter approved, North Carolina Mutual and Provident Association opened for business on April 1, 1899. Dr. Moore served as its treasurer and medical director, albeit without salary or remuneration. In addition, Moore agreed to rent out a part of his office to the association for $2 a month, a sign of his commitment to the Black community served by the association.\n\nBy 1900, the association was in a precarious financial position as claims increased. In response, Dr. Moore and John Merrick used personal funds to meet the company's obligations. The other incorporators were unwilling to fund the deficit and, by July 1900, withdrew from the company. Dr. Moore understood that African Americans needed insurance services. He also believed strongly that North Carolina Mutual was accountable to the Negro community, and that \"to desert their policy holders was to discredit their people\". Moore and Merrick bought the shares of withdrawing members. For \"socially conscious Black businessmen\" like Moore, the purpose of business enterprises extended beyond profit; more importantly, it was a means to improve the conditions of the segregated Black community.\n\nMoore assumed the vacated position of secretary while his nephew, C. C. Spaulding, promoted the sale of insurance policies. The partnership between Moore, Spaulding and Merrick as President transformed North Carolina Mutual and Provident Association into a strong enterprise. In 1919, the association was renamed North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company. When Merrick died that year, Dr. Moore assumed presidency of North Carolina Mutual until his death in 1923. As President, Moore was insistent that the Company stayed true to the purpose of its founding:\n\nDr. Aaron Moore rooted North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company in its \"commitment to service\", bringing much needed insurance services to the African American community in Durham. The access to reliable insurance services ensured that individuals could afford necessary treatment and healthcare services in times of need.\n\nThrough North Carolina Mutual, Moore also contributed to economic prosperity of the black community in Durham. Inspired by his success, other Black leaders began to enter business, founding the Mechanics and Farmers Bank in 1907 and Mutual Community Savings Bank in 1921. As black business continued to thrive in tandem with North Carolina Mutual, a \"robust business district in downtown Durham\" was developed, becoming what became known as the Black Wall Street. The Black business movement contributed significantly to Durham's race relations; while there was interracial friction in other cities, Durham's whites tolerated and some supported its Black businessmen, as their progress benefited the city as a whole. Dr. Moore was thus a key figure who not only stimulated growth in Durham, but also brought social progress to the city.\n\nDr. Aaron Moore founded the Lincoln Hospital in 1901. Earlier in 1895, the Watts Hospital was completed, but its services were offered only to Whites. Recognizing the needs of the African American community, Dr. Aaron Moore boldly proposed the construction of a Negro hospital in 1898. While some suggested that a separate wing for Negros be added to the city hospital, Moore rejected the idea, as Black doctors and nurses would not be permitted to work at the hospital. With Merrick's help, Moore \"raised $25,000 in the black community and $100,000 in the white community\", $75,000 of which was contributed by the Duke family. The Dukes' contributed based on Moore's advocating for the hospital's merit, and because of their close relationship with Merrick. Moore directed the construction of Lincoln Hospital and oversaw its completion in 1901. He served as its Superintendent until his death in 1923.\n\nUnder Moore's leadership, the hospital served patients regardless of their ability to pay. It gained an increased in patronage and by 1914, added a new wing. Recognizing the need to train Black nurses, Moore set up the associated Lincoln Hospital Training School of Nursing in 1903. In 1923, when he died, Moore bequeathed three properties to the hospital, an endowment to be used to generate income to fund students of the Lincoln Hospital Training School of Nursing.\n\nMoore's most significant achievement was the Lincoln Hospital, which contributed greatly to healthcare in Durham and improved life in the African-American community. By establishing the Lincoln School of Nursing, Dr. Moore ensured a system to provide healthcare personnel for black Durham citizens.\n\nBased on funding from both the black and white communities, the Lincoln Hospital was a symbol of racial cooperation and unity for a common purpose. Moore's success in rallying such White support was remarkable in an era of racial discrimination and segregation. With his reputation for competence, he commanded the attention of White leaders and spoke to them as equals. Some whites considered their contributions a kind of thanks for what they saw as Black support during the Civil War. The following was inscribed at the entrance of the Lincoln Hospital:\n\nToday, Lincoln Hospital has been absorbed as part of the Duke Regional Hospital, following its merger with Watts Hospital in 1976.\n\nDr. Moore advocated education in the African-American community. Besides serving on the Board of Trustees at his alma mater, Shaw University, Moore was also one of the largest donors to the school. He also established a Colored Library in Durham, which became the Stanford L. Warren branch of the Durham County Public Library on January 17, 1940. Besides improving the rural school system for Blacks in North Carolina, Moore also formed the Volkemenia and Shubert-Shakespeare clubs, which were created to provide African Americans with access to concerts, speakers and reading sessions.\n\nWith his personal experience in a rural school, Dr. Moore worked to improve these, which were typically underfunded by white local and state school authorities in the segregated system. Moore wrote about the need to improve rural schools in an April 26, 1915, letter to a state official:\n\nFrom 1914 until his death in 1923, Dr. Moore concentrated on improving rural schools for black children. He hired George W. Davis, North Carolina's first rural school inspector, at his own expense. Moore wanted to document the condition of the poor rural schools. Moore raised money for the schools through the Rosenwald Fund, established by philanthropist Julius Rosenwald of Chicago to aid the construction of rural schools, especially for African-American children, as their schools were underfunded. The Fund's contributions were based on matching monies raised by local communities, and also required a commitment by white-run school boards. Black parents were so eager for schools that they often taxed themselves. In order to stimulate school involvement, he proposed that schools must \"put down dollar for dollar for its own improvements\". Following Moore's success, the state of North Carolina took over his work while the North Carolina Teachers' Association made him the Secretary-Treasurer of its Rural School Extension Department, a position he served until 1922.\n\nA revolutionary Black leader in a time of racial segregation, Dr. Moore is remembered as an individual who \"transcended his times\" for his ability to stand as equals with White leaders. Capitalizing on this high ground, he improved standards of living for the African American community in Durham and North Carolina through his contributions to education, healthcare and social enterprises. To the disenfranchised African American community, \"he emerges from the history of Black Durham as a Messiah moving quietly among the people, giving aid and comfort\". Race relations in Durham also improved following Dr. Moore's leadership in the Black business movement, which ushered in an age of cooperation between Black and White business leaders. His partnership with the White community in social projects such as the Lincoln Hospital also served to forge stronger bonds between the two races. Today, the Lincoln Hospital is remembered as \"a monument of [the] spirit of racial cooperation\". Dr. Moore also spoke strongly against Jim Crow and racial discrimination. This resonated with the larger social movement that eventually brought racial equality to North Carolina and the United States.\n\nToday a historic marker stands on 1201 Fayetteville Rd, Durham, N.C. to honor the contributions of Dr. Aaron Moore.\n"}
{"id": "45388878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45388878", "title": "African Index Medicus", "text": "African Index Medicus\n\nThe African Index Medicus (\"AIM\") is an international database to African health literature implemented by World Health Organization (WHO) and African partners. AIM makes available (on line) health information produced on Africa or by African researchers for health workers, policy makers and communities.\n\nEstablishing a regional database of health literature published in Africa (an African Index Medicus) was mandated by the Regional Committee by resolution AFR/RC30R5. In 1984, the work began on developing the database in AFRO but for various reasons was subsequently suspended.\n\nThe project was relaunched in 1993 following a consultation in Accra, Ghana, among African Health information professionals, members of the Executive Committee of the Association for Health Information and Libraries in Africa (AHILA). and WHO technical staff.\n\nThe major objective of the AIM project is to provide access to information published in or related to Africa and to encourage local publishing. It aims to collect references of published and non-published health information relevant to the Region and not indexed elsewhere. The major challenges for this project are:\n\n\n\nAll African Medical journals could be indexed in the AIM database. Articles on or related to Africa and published in other regional or international journals are indexed.\n\nThe African Index Medicus Project is based at the World Health Organization Regional office for Africa. (Library) in Brazzaville, Congo. \nData are provided by National focal points and African Medical Editors. Many of them are FAME (Forum of African Medical Editors) members. The information received by the IMA project team are indexed, cataloged, compiled and integrated into a database available on OPAC accessible from the website of the African Index Medicus.\n\nAIM is recognized by leading institutions and organizations as the main catalog of African health information. Therefore, the recommendations and / or referrals to the African Index Medicus, are present on the websites of many of these organizations, including international networks such as le CISMEF (France), universities such as the Stanford University, University of Alberta. Also the African and Malagasy Council for Higher Education (CAMES) recommends that African researchers and scientists to publish in journals indexed IMA to ensure the credibility of their issue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47705496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47705496", "title": "Australian deaf community", "text": "Australian deaf community\n\nThe deaf community in Australia is a diverse cultural and linguistic minority group. Deaf communities have many distinctive cultural characteristics, some of which are shared across many different countries. These characteristics include language, values and behaviours.\n\nThe single most unifying characteristic is sign language, which is at the centre of the deaf culture and community. In Australia, the deaf community’s language is known as Auslan. To be fully fluent in Auslan is not necessary, but what is necessary is acceptance of Auslan as a language in its own right and respect for it. A deaf person will help someone learn Auslan if that person can show that they understand Auslan’s value for deaf people. Without this understanding the person is unlikely to receive a warm welcome into the community. At best, the person will be treated politely, but as an interloper or a “tourist”. This attitude can be found in other language groups too, it is not unique to deaf culture.\n\nAuslan has evolved from the sign languages brought to Australia during the nineteenth century from Britain and Ireland. Auslan was not invented by any single person, hearing or deaf, it is a natural language. Any language that is used by either the deaf or the hearing will grow in response to the needs of the people and/or communities communicating it, especially between a child and parents, when it’s the first language they are taught. British Sign Language (BSL) and Auslan are both very closely related, Auslan has been called a dialect of BSL. Auslan has developed some distinct characteristics including its own unique signs since the nineteenth century. Most of these new signs were developed in residential schools for deaf children because the signers may have had little contact with other deaf communities. Auslan was also influenced by Irish Sign Language (ISL).\n\nAlthough there are minor differences in the language between states, overall there are two main dialects of Auslan. This is a consequence of the establishment of the two major residential schools for the deaf, one dialect is in Sydney (the north) and the other in Melbourne (the south). These two sign dialects of the north and south may reflect the differences in the signing teachers from the two different schools in Sydney and Melbourne. The state and dialect differences are large and noticeable enough to know their state of origin or even the school they attended, but are small enough not to interfere or make any boundaries for communication.\n\nToday Auslan is undergoing serious rapid changes and expansions. Expansions are occurring in sign language interpreter services, in secondary and tertiary education and in the delivery of governmental, legal and medical services. These enormous expansions have put great demands on the language by both interpreters and deaf people themselves. These developments have come up with these three main responses: “(i) attempts to standardise usage, (ii) the development of new signs to meet new needs, (iii) the borrowing of signs from other sign languages, particularly from American Sign Language (ASL).” (Johnston & Schembri, 2007).\n"}
{"id": "30206608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30206608", "title": "Avellis syndrome", "text": "Avellis syndrome\n\nAvellis syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by a peculiar form of alternating paralysis. There is paralysis of the soft palate and vocal cords on one side and loss of pain sensation and temperature sense on the other side, including the extremities, trunk, and neck. It usually results from occlusion of the vertebral artery in lesions of the nucleus ambiguous and pyramidal tract. Horner's syndrome may be associated. In the original description, the vagus and glossopharyngeal nerves were involved; concomitant involvement of the neighbouring cranial nerves was observed later.\n"}
{"id": "56217904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56217904", "title": "Brazilian Red Cross", "text": "Brazilian Red Cross\n\nBrazilian Red Cross () was founded in 1978 and it has its headquarters in Brasília.\n\nhttps://cvb.rc-app.com/\n\n"}
{"id": "15512272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15512272", "title": "Bush Doctors", "text": "Bush Doctors\n\nBush Doctors is a seven-part Australian reality television series centred on the lives of a medical team at a rural hospital in Dubbo, New South Wales. It debuted on the Seven Network on 3 February 2008 and was narrated by \"All Saints\" star Jolene Anderson.\n\nThis was her last show on channel 7 and she moved to Channel 10 to star in \"Rush\".\n"}
{"id": "473443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473443", "title": "Canadian Council for Tobacco Control", "text": "Canadian Council for Tobacco Control\n\nThe Canadian Council for Tobacco Control (CCTC) is a registered Canadian charity. It formerly existed as the Canadian Council on Smoking and Health (CCSH). It was founded in 1974 by several non-governmental organizations \"concerned with the tobacco epidemic\", including the Canadian Cancer Society, the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Canada, and the Canadian Lung Association. It coordinates Canada's National Non-Smoking Week.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27559105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27559105", "title": "Carbohydrate digestion", "text": "Carbohydrate digestion\n\nAll carbohydrates absorbed in the small intestine must be hydrolyzed to monosaccharides prior to absorption. Hydrolysis precedes transport of monosaccharides in hamster intestine. From sucrose, glucose is taken up much faster than fructose. Monosaccharide transport saturates with -glucose at 30 mM.\n\nDigestion of starch begins with the action of salivary alpha-amylase/ptyalin, although its activity is slight in comparison with that of pancreatic amylase in the small intestine. Amylase hydrolyzes starch to alpha-dextrin, which are then digested by gluco-amylase (alpha-dextrinases) to maltose and maltotriose. The products of digestion of alpha-amylase and alpha-dextrinase, along with dietary disaccharides are hydrolyzed to their corresponding monosaccharides by enzymes (maltase, isomaltase, sucrase and lactase) present in the brush border of the small intestine. In the typical Western diet, digestion and absorption of carbohydrates is fast and takes place usually in the upper small intestine. However, when the diet contains carbohydrates not easily digestible, digestion and absorption take place mainly in the ileal portion of the intestine.\n\nDigestion of food continues while simplest elements are absorbed. The absorption of most digested food occurs in the small intestine through the brush border of the epithelium covering the villi (small hair-like structure). It is not a simple diffusion of substances, but is active and requires energy use by the epithelial cells.\n\nDuring the phase of carbohydrate absorption, fructose is transported into the intestinal cell's cytosol, glucose and galactose competes with other sodium transporter required for operation. From the cytosol, monosaccharides pass into the capillaries by simple or facilitated diffusion.\n\nCarbohydrates not digested in the small intestine, including resistant starch foods such as potato, bean, oat, wheat flour, and several monosaccharide oligosaccharides and starch, are digested in a variable when they reach the large intestine. The bacterial flora metabolize these compounds anaerobically in the absence of oxygen. This produces gases (hydrogen, carbon dioxide and methane) and short-chain fatty acids (acetate, propionate, butyrate). The gases are absorbed and excreted by breathing or through the anus (flatulence). Fatty acids are rapidly metabolized. Butyrate is used mainly by cells in the colon and acetate is absorbed into the blood and taken up by the liver, muscle and other tissue. Propionate is an important precursor of glucose in some animals, but not humans.\n"}
{"id": "4417862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4417862", "title": "Centella asiatica", "text": "Centella asiatica\n\nCentella asiatica, commonly known as centella, Asiatic pennywort or Gotu kola, is a herbaceous, frost-tender perennial plant in the flowering plant family Apiaceae. It is native to wetlands in Asia. It is used as a culinary vegetable and as a medicinal herb.\n\nCentella grows in temperate and tropical swampy areas in many world regions. The stems are slender, creeping stolons, green to reddish-green in color, connecting plants to each other. It has long-stalked, green, rounded apices which have smooth texture with palmately netted veins. The leaves are borne on pericladial petioles, around . The rootstock consists of rhizomes, growing vertically down. They are creamish in color and covered with root hairs.\n\nThe flowers are white or pinkish to red in color, born in small, rounded bunches (umbels) near the surface of the soil. Each flower is partly enclosed in two green bracts. The hermaphrodite flowers are minute in size, less than , with five to six corolla lobes per flower. Each flower bears five stamens and two styles. The fruit are densely reticulate, distinguishing it from species of Hydrocotyle which have smooth, ribbed or warty fruit. The crop matures in three months, and the whole plant, including the roots, is harvested manually. It is a highly invasive plant, rated as \"high risk\". Centella has numerous common names in its regions of distribution.\n\n\"Centella asiatica\" is indigenous to the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and wetland regions of the Southeastern US. Because the plant is aquatic, it is especially sensitive to biological and chemical pollutants in the water, which may be absorbed into the plant. It can be cultivated in drier soils as long as they are watered regularly enough (such as in a home garden arrangement).\n\n\"Centella\" contains pentacyclic triterpenoids, including asiaticoside, brahmoside, asiatic acid, and brahmic acid (madecassic acid). Other constituents include centellose, centelloside, and madecassoside.\n\nIn Myanmar cuisine, raw pennywort is used as the main constituent in a salad made also with onions, crushed peanuts, bean powder and seasoned with lime juice and fish sauce. Centella is used as a leafy green in Sri Lankan cuisine, being the most predominant of all locally available leafy greens, where it is called \"gotu kola\". The adjective \"gotu\" in Sinhalese, is translated as \"an inverted conical shape\" (like the shape of a colander) and \"kola\" as \"leaf\". It is most often prepared as \"malluma\", a traditional accompaniment to rice and curry, and goes especially well with vegetarian dishes, such as \"dal\", and jackfruit or pumpkin curry. It is considered nutritious. In addition to finely chopped \"gotu kola\" plants, the \"gotu kola malluma\" may contain grated coconut, diced shallots, lime (or lemon) juice, and sea salt, and may also contain finely chopped green chilis, chili powder, turmeric powder, or chopped carrots as additional ingredients. The centella fruit-bearing structures are discarded from the \"gotu kola malluma\" due to their intense bitter taste. A variation of porridge known as \"kola kenda\" is also made with \"gotu kola\" by the Sinhalese people of Sri Lanka. \"Gotu kola kenda\" is made with well-boiled red rice with some extra liquid, coconut milk first extract, and \"gotu kola\" purée. The porridge is accompanied with jaggery for sweetness. Centella leaves are also used in modern sweet \"pennywort\" drinks and herbal teas. In addition the leaves are served stir-fried whole in coconut oil, or cooked in coconut milk with garlic or \"dhal\".\n\nIn Indonesia, the leaves are used for \"sambai oi peuga-ga\", an Aceh type of salad, and is also mixed into \"asinan\" in Bogor. In Vietnam and Thailand, this leaf is used for preparing a drink or can be eaten in raw form in salads or cold rolls. In Bangkok, vendors in the famous Chatuchak Weekend Market sell it alongside coconut, roselle, chrysanthemum, orange and other health drinks. In Malay cuisine the leaves of this plant are used for \"ulam\", a type of Malay salad. Centella is widely used in various Indian regional cuisines. Among the Kukis of Northeast India, it is locally known as 'Changkong che' and is widely used as chutney along with dried red chili and fermented fish called 'nga-thu' or 'ngari'.\n\nIn traditional medicine, \"C. asiatica\" has been used to treat various disorders and minor wounds and to encourage lactation, but clinical efficacy and safety have not been confirmed by high-quality medical research. Contact dermatitis and skin irritation are possible from topical application, and headache, nausea, and drowsiness may occur from internal use. The herb may have adverse effects on liver function when used over many months.\n\nIn Āyurveda, \"C. asiatica\" is known as maṇḍūkaparṇī or maṇḍūkī, and is classified as a vegetable in the Carakasaṃhitā with supposed rejuvenating properties.\n\nIn the context of phytoremediation, \"C. asiatica\" is a potential phytoextraction tool owing to its ability to take up and translocate metals from root to shoot when grown in soils contaminated by heavy metals.\n"}
{"id": "27655539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27655539", "title": "DECIPHER", "text": "DECIPHER\n\nDECIPHER is a web-based resource and database of genomic variation data from analysis of patient DNA. It documents submicroscopic chromosome abnormalities (microdeletions and duplications) and pathogenic sequence variants (single nucleotide variants - SNVs, Insertions, Deletions, InDels), from over 25000 patients and maps them to the human genome using Ensembl or UCSC Genome Browser. In addition it catalogues the clinical characteristics from each patient and maintains a database of microdeletion/duplication syndromes, together with links to relevant scientific reports and support groups.\n\nAn acronym of DatabasE of Chromosomal Imbalance and Phenotype in Humans using Ensembl Resources, DECIPHER was initiated in 2004 at the Sanger Institute in the United Kingdom, funded by the Wellcome Trust. However it is supported by an international research consortium, with patient data contributed by more than 240 clinical genetics centres from 33 countries. Each centre is represented by an experienced clinical geneticist and a senior molecular cytogeneticist.\n\nDECIPHER was established in 2004 by Nigel Carter of the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute and Helen Firth, a clinical genetics consultant at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge. It has three main aims:\n\n\nAs a tool for clinical geneticists, cytogeneticists and molecular biologists, DECIPHER is used to determine whether gene copy number variations identified in patients are of clinical significance. Members can visualise the genes within the region of DNA altered in their patients, and ascertain whether any are known to be implicated in disease. Chromosomal imbalances are a major cause of developmental delay, learning disabilities and congential abnormalities and — according to Emily Niemitz writing in \"Nature Genetics\" — the database facilitates collaboration between researchers and clinicians who have patients with similar clinical characteristics, which can \"assist in the discovery of new syndromes and in the recognition of genes of clinical importance.\"\n\nPatients are entered into DECIPHER by registered consortium members. Typically a clinical geneticist arranges for a chromosome analysis (usually microarray based) of a patient's DNA. A potential microdeletion/microduplication may be identified, but the medical significance is not known. The clinician may enter the anonymised data into the restricted, password protected DECIPHER database and map the location and size of the chromosomal deletion/duplication to the reference genome. Using DECIPHER, the clinician can then identify the specific genes affected by the deletion/duplication, determine whether any have known clinical significance (for example, whether tumour suppressor genes have been deleted), and view the region in the Ensembl genome browser to see whether there are any other consented patients in DECIPHER with overlapping deletion/duplications. This enables a better ascertainment of whether a copy number change is a normal polymorphic variant, or the likely cause of the patient’s clinical symptoms. The clinician can then counsel the patient on the likely significance of the deletion/duplication, and its implications for their health.\n\nEach patient's data is anonymized, and represented only by an ID with an associated genotype and set of clinical symptoms (phenotypes). Patient data is made accessible to other members of the consortium and viewable through Ensembl if a consent form is signed by the patient. With informed consent, the anonymized deletion/duplication and phenotypes become available for view to DECIPHER consortium members and public users, with different levels of access (e.g. only logged users can see the contact details of the centre that entered the data). Public users who wish to find more information about a patient may send a request to DECIPHER, which then will forward it to the clinician coordinator responsible for the submitting center.\n\nMost patients deposited in DECIPHER display genetic mutations with a very low occurrence in the general population. Hence the probability of the same clinicians encountering similar patients are also low. Since DECIPHER is opened to any accredited clinician or cytogeneticist from around the world, the chances of finding similar rare cases are significantly increased. This on-line sharing of clinical genetic information not only promotes better understanding of microdeletions/microduplications and their associated pathogenic phenotypes, it has also facilitated the discovery of new syndromes. As of January 2014, over 23000 patients have been entered into the DECIPHER database of which over 10000 are consented.\n\nThe appropriate consent to enter patient data into DECIPHER is obtained by the submitting clinician. Patient consent can be withdrawn at any time, and their data is removed. Often children's records are displayed with the consent of their parents of guardians. DECIPHER advises that, when the child reaches the age of sixteen years, he or she be made aware of the entry and be given the opportunity to withdraw or continue as a participant. Each member centre that uses DECIPHER obtains ethical approval from a research ethics committee in their own institution or country, where applicable. In the UK, the Information Commissioner's Office has been notified about DECIPHER in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998. The project is overseen by an advisory board representatives from the field of human genetics, computational biology, ethics and law.\n\nTo ensure information privacy, data is served over an encrypted TLS/SSL connection. Only trusted individuals from recognized medical research centres can access the identity of the center that submitted another patient (permitting them to contact the patient's clinicians should they wish to collaborate). Members of the public may browse consented anonymized patient data in DECIPHER and Ensembl, without the identity of the submitting centre being shown.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5464454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5464454", "title": "Daniel Bahr", "text": "Daniel Bahr\n\nDaniel Bahr (born 4 November 1976) is a German politician and member of the FDP. From May 2011 to December 2013 he was Federal Minister of Health.\n\nBahr was born the son of a policeman in Lahnstein, Rhineland-Palatinate. He is the FDP's expert on health politics and was chairman of the party's youth organization, the Young Liberals, from 1999 to 2004.\n\nBahr joined the Young Liberals (the German short form is \"JuLis\" from Junge Liberale) at the age of 14 in 1990. Two years later he became a member of their mother party FDP.\n\nBahr graduated from Immanuel-Kant High School, Münster, in 1996. He subsequently went on to an apprenticeship as a bank clerk at Dresdner Bank in Schwerin and Hamburg. In the winter of 1998 Bahr began studying economics at the University of Münster, graduating with a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Economics. In 2008 he completed another course of study, focussing on international healthcare and hospital management, graduating with a Master of Business Administration (MBA).\n\nAfter joining JuLis in 1990, Bahr became a member of the FDP in 1992. From 1994 to 1996 he was chairman of the JuLis in the district of Münster. In 1999, he was elected national chairman of the JuLis, an office he held until 2004.\n\nBahr became a member of the FDP's federal executive board in 2001. In 2003, he became chairman of the party's \"Zukunftsforum\" (Future Forum) on \"Frauen, kinderfreundliches Deutschland, Generationengerechtigkeit\" (\"Women, Child-friendly Germany, a Generation Fairness\").\n\nHe was the chairman of the FDP in the Münsterland district in 2006, and led the party's opposition against the grand coalition's health sector reform. On 27 November 2010 he was elected at the state convention of the North Rhine-Westphalian FDP to the state chairman.\n\nIn the negotiations to form a coalition government of the FDP and the Christian Democrats (CDU together with the Bavarian CSU) following the 2009 federal elections, Bahr was part of the FDP delegation in the working group on health policy, led by Ursula von der Leyen and Philipp Rösler.\n\nOn 12 May 2011 Bahr was appointed by the Federal President to become the Federal Minister of Health in Chancellor Angela Merkel's second government. His predecessor, Philipp Rösler, moved on to become Federal Minister of Economic Affairs and Vice-Chancellor. On the same day his swearing-in ceremony was held in the German Bundestag. With the German care home sector facing an acute labor shortage, Bahr proposed relaxing rules for bringing in foreign care workers.\n\nIn 2012, Bahr was selected a \"Young Global Leader\" by the World Economic Forum.\n\nWith the commencement of the Cabinet Merkel III on 17 December 2013 Bahr retired from the federal government.\n\nFrom February to summer 2014, Bahr served as a health care reform advisor for the think tank Center for American Progress. In addition, he worked as a guest lecturer on health economics at the University of Michigan.\n\nOn 29 September 2014, it was announced that Bahr would join the executive board of Allianz Private Krankenversicherungs-AG (APKV), a health insurance provide owned by Allianz. Following the approval of the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin), he has been serving on the company’s executive board since 2017.\n\n\nIn 2010 Bahr caused controversy when he – amid a dispute over the proposals of Philipp Rösler to introduce a health premium – accused the coalition partner CSU of behaving like \"wild boar\" and \"only destructive\".\n\nIn 2008, Bahr married lawyer Judy Witten in Hamburg. The couple has three children.\n"}
{"id": "50462832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50462832", "title": "De-linkage", "text": "De-linkage\n\nDe-linkage is a proposed model for development of new pharmaceutical drugs where \"de-link\" refers to isolating the profitability of a drug from its volume of sales.\n\nIn the current business model, the pharmaceutical industry relies on the pricing and sales of its products to generate profits and to finance research and development of new drugs. This ability is dependent on the monopoly granted through patents.\n\nIn the de-linkage model, other means (such as lump sums) would be used to reward companies for research and development in exchange for restricting the price charged for the product. This would allow the product to be sold at prices closer to production costs which would ensure better access, particularly for poor people and those who pay for their own treatment.\n\nDe-linkage was first promoted by civil society organizations as a better way of financing research and development than the patent-based system. This was opposed by the industry as it was seen as an attack on the patent system on which the current business model depended. It was also questioned because it involved governments deciding how R&D should be rewarded instead of the free market.. An early effort to implement delinkage of R&D incentives from drug prices was the Medical Innovation Prize Fund legislation first introduced in the House of Representatives by Bernie Sanders in 2005, and subsequently revised and reintroduced several times. Several national governments support measures to move toward delinkage.\n\nUntil resistance has emerged against a previous generation of antibiotic, commercial return for any given new drug is uncertain. Therefore, the de-linkage model may be preferable in the context of developing new antibiotics and the fight against resistance where new antibiotics initially are unlikely to sell in large quantities because they should be reserved for use only when all other options have been exhausted. De-linkage also removes the incentive for the industry to boost sales that may encourage overuse that accelerate the development of antibiotic resistance.\n\n"}
{"id": "44738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44738", "title": "Diabetes insipidus", "text": "Diabetes insipidus\n\nDiabetes insipidus (DI) is a condition characterized by large amounts of dilute urine and increased thirst. The amount of urine produced can be nearly 20 liters per day. Reduction of fluid has little effect on the concentration of the urine. Complications may include dehydration or seizures.\nThere are four types of DI, each with a different set of causes. Central DI (CDI) is due to a lack of the hormone vasopressin (antidiuretic hormone). This can be due to damage to the hypothalamus or pituitary gland or genetics. Nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (NDI) occurs when the kidneys do not respond properly to vasopressin. Dipsogenic DI is due to abnormal thirst mechanisms in the hypothalamus while gestational DI occurs only during pregnancy. Diagnosis is often based on urine tests, blood tests, and the fluid deprivation test. Diabetes mellitus is a separate condition with an unrelated mechanism, though both can result in the production of large amounts of urine.\nTreatment involves drinking sufficient fluids to prevent dehydration. Other treatments depend on the type. In central and gestational DI treatment is with desmopressin. Nephrogenic DI may be treated by addressing the underlying cause or the use of a thiazide, aspirin, or ibuprofen. The number of new cases of diabetes insipidus each year is 3 in 100,000. Central DI usually starts between the ages of 10 and 20 and occurs in males and females equally. Nephrogenic DI can begin at any age. The term \"diabetes\" is derived from the Greek word meaning siphon.\n\nExcessive urination and extreme thirst and increased fluid intake (especially for cold water and sometimes ice or ice water) are typical for DI. The symptoms of excessive urination and extreme thirst are similar to what is seen in untreated diabetes mellitus, with the distinction that the urine does not contain glucose. Blurred vision is a rarity. Signs of dehydration may also appear in some individuals, since the body cannot conserve much (if any) of the water it takes in.\n\nExtreme urination continues throughout the day and the night. In children, DI can interfere with appetite, eating, weight gain, and growth, as well. They may present with fever, vomiting, or diarrhea. Adults with untreated DI may remain healthy for decades as long as enough water is consumed to offset the urinary losses. However, there is a continuous risk of dehydration and loss of potassium that may lead to hypokalemia.\n\nThe several forms of DI are:\n\nCentral DI has many possible causes. According to the literature, the principal causes of central DI and their oft-cited approximate frequencies are as follows:\nSource: www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov\n\nNephrogenic diabetes insipidus is due to the inability of the kidney to respond normally to vasopressin.\n\nDipsogenic DI or primary polydipsia results from excessive intake of fluids as opposed to deficiency of arginine vasopressin. It may be due to a defect or damage to the thirst mechanism, located in the hypothalamus; or due to mental illness. Treatment with DDAVP may lead to water intoxication.\n\nGestational DI occurs only during pregnancy and the postpartum period. During pregnancy, women produce vasopressinase in the placenta, which breaks down antidiuretic hormone (ADH). Gestational DI is thought to occur with excessive production and/or impaired clearance of vasopressinase.\n\nMost cases of gestational DI can be treated with desmopressin (ddAVP), but not vasopressin. In rare cases, however, an abnormality in the thirst mechanism causes gestational DI, and desmopressin should not be used.\n\nDiabetes insipidus is also associated with some serious diseases of pregnancy, including pre-eclampsia, HELLP syndrome and acute fatty liver of pregnancy. These cause DI by impairing hepatic clearance of circulating vasopressinase. It is important to consider these diseases if a woman presents with diabetes insipidus in pregnancy, because their treatments require delivery of the baby before the disease will improve. Failure to treat these diseases promptly can lead to maternal or perinatal mortality.\n\nElectrolyte and volume homeostasis is a complex mechanism that balances the body's requirements for blood pressure and the main electrolytes sodium and potassium. In general, electrolyte regulation precedes volume regulation. When the volume is severely depleted, however, the body will retain water at the expense of deranging electrolyte levels.\n\nThe regulation of urine production occurs in the hypothalamus, which produces ADH in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei. After synthesis, the hormone is transported in neurosecretory granules down the axon of the hypothalamic neuron to the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland, where it is stored for later release. In addition, the hypothalamus regulates the sensation of thirst in the ventromedial nucleus by sensing increases in serum osmolarity and relaying this information to the cortex.\n\nNeurogenic/central DI results from a lack of ADH; occasionally it can present with decreased thirst as regulation of thirst and ADH production occur in close proximity in the hypothalamus. It is encountered as a result of hypoxic encephalopathy, neurosurgery, autoimmunity or cancer, or sometimes without an underlying cause (idiopathic).\n\nThe main effector organ for fluid homeostasis is the kidney. ADH acts by increasing water permeability in the collecting ducts and distal convoluted tubules; specifically, it acts on proteins called aquaporins and more specifically aquaporin 2 in the following cascade. When released, ADH binds to V2 G-protein coupled receptors within the distal convoluted tubules, increasing cyclic AMP, which couples with protein kinase A, stimulating translocation of the aquaporin 2 channel stored in the cytoplasm of the distal convoluted tubules and collecting ducts into the apical membrane. These transcribed channels allow water into the collecting duct cells. The increase in permeability allows for reabsorption of water into the bloodstream, thus concentrating the urine.\n\nNephrogenic DI results from lack of aquaporin channels in the distal collecting duct (decreased surface expression and transcription). It is seen in lithium toxicity, hypercalcemia, hypokalemia, or release of ureteral obstruction. Therefore, a lack of ADH prevents water reabsorption and the osmolarity of the blood increases. With increased osmolarity, the osmoreceptors in the hypothalamus detect this change and stimulate thirst. With increased thirst, the patient now experiences a polydipsia and polyuria cycle. \n\nHereditary forms of diabetes insipidus account for less than 10% of the cases of diabetes insipidus seen in clinical practice.\n\nTo distinguish DI from other causes of excess urination, blood glucose levels, bicarbonate levels, and calcium levels need to be tested. Measurement of blood electrolytes can reveal a high sodium level (hypernatremia as dehydration develops). Urinalysis demonstrates a dilute urine with a low specific gravity. Urine osmolarity and electrolyte levels are typically low.\n\nA fluid deprivation test is another way of distinguishing DI from other causes of excessive urination. If there is no change in fluid loss, giving desmopressin can determine if DI is caused by:\n\nThis test measures the changes in body weight, urine output, and urine composition when fluids are withheld to induce dehydration. The body's normal response to dehydration is to conserve water by concentrating the urine. Those with DI continue to urinate large amounts of dilute urine in spite of water deprivation. In primary polydipsia, the urine osmolality should increase and stabilize at above 280 Osm/kg with fluid restriction, while a stabilization at a lower level indicates diabetes insipidus. Stabilization in this test means, more specifically, when the increase in urine osmolality is less than 30 Osm/kg per hour for at least three hours. Sometimes measuring blood levels of ADH toward the end of this test is also necessary, but is more time consuming to perform.\n\nTo distinguish between the main forms, desmopressin stimulation is also used; desmopressin can be taken by injection, a nasal spray, or a tablet. While taking desmopressin, a patient should drink fluids or water only when thirsty and not at other times, as this can lead to sudden fluid accumulation in the central nervous system. If desmopressin reduces urine output and increases urine osmolarity, the hypothalamic production of ADH is deficient, and the kidney responds normally to exogenous vasopressin (desmopressin). If the DI is due to renal pathology, desmopressin does not change either urine output or osmolarity (since the endogenous vasopressin levels are already high).\n\nWhilst diabetes insipidus usually occurs with polydipsia, it can also rarely occur not only in the absence of polydipsia but in the presence of its opposite, adipsia (or hypodipsia). \"Adipsic diabetes insipidus\" is recognised as a marked absence of thirst even in response to hyperosmolality. In some cases of adipsic DI, the patient may also fail to respond to desmopressin.\n\nIf central DI is suspected, testing of other hormones of the pituitary, as well as magnetic resonance imaging, particularly a pituitary MRI, is necessary to discover if a disease process (such as a prolactinoma, or histiocytosis, syphilis, tuberculosis or other tumor or granuloma) is affecting pituitary function. Most people with this form have either experienced past head trauma or have stopped ADH production for an unknown reason.\n\nHabit drinking (in its severest form termed psychogenic polydipsia) is the most common imitator of diabetes insipidus at all ages. While many adult cases in the medical literature are associated with mental disorders, most patients with habit polydipsia have no other detectable disease. The distinction is made during the water deprivation test, as some degree of urinary concentration above isoosmolar is usually obtained before the patient becomes dehydrated.\n\nCentral DI and gestational DI respond to desmopressin which is given as intranasal or oral tablets. Carbamazepine, an anticonvulsive medication, has also had some success in this type of DI. Also, gestational DI tends to abate on its own four to six weeks following labor, though some women may develop it again in subsequent pregnancies. In dipsogenic DI, desmopressin is not usually an option.\n\nDesmopressin will be ineffective in nephrogenic DI which is treated by reversing the underlying cause (if possible) and replacing the free water deficit. The diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (a thiazide diuretic) or indomethacin can be used to create mild hypovolemia which encourages salt and water uptake in proximal tubule and thus improve nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. Amiloride has additional benefit of blocking Na uptake. Thiazide diuretics are sometimes combined with amiloride to prevent hypokalemia. It seems paradoxical to treat an extreme diuresis with a diuretic, and the exact mechanism of action is unknown but the thiazide diuretics will decrease distal convoluted tubule reabsorption of sodium and water, thereby causing diuresis. This decreases plasma volume, thus lowering the glomerular filtration rate and enhancing the absorption of sodium and water in the proximal nephron. Less fluid reaches the distal nephron, so overall fluid conservation is obtained.\n\nLithium-induced nephrogenic DI may be effectively managed with the administration of amiloride, a potassium-sparing diuretic often used in conjunction with thiazide or loop diuretics. Clinicians have been aware of lithium toxicity for many years, and traditionally have administered thiazide diuretics for lithium-induced polyuria and nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. However, amiloride has recently been shown to be a successful treatment for this condition.\n\nThe word \"diabetes\" ( or ) comes from Latin \"diabētēs\", which in turn comes from Ancient Greek διαβήτης (\"diabētēs\") which literally means \"a passer through; a siphon\". Ancient Greek physician Aretaeus of Cappadocia (fl. in the first century CE) used that word, with the intended meaning \"excessive discharge of urine\", as the name for the disease. Ultimately, the word comes from Greek διαβαίνειν (\"diabainein\"), meaning \"to pass through\", which is composed of δια- (\"dia\"-), meaning \"through\" and βαίνειν (\"bainein\"), meaning \"to go\". The word \"diabetes\" is first recorded in English, in the form \"diabete\", in a medical text written around 1425.\n\n\"Insipidus\" comes from Latin language \"insipidus\" (tasteless), from Latin: \"in-\" \"not\" + \"sapidus\" \"tasty\" from \"sapere\" \"have a taste\" — the full meaning is \"lacking flavor or zest; not tasty\". Application of this name to DI arose from the fact that diabetes insipidus does not cause glycosuria (excretion of glucose into the urine).\n"}
{"id": "54993224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54993224", "title": "Disability rights in Japan", "text": "Disability rights in Japan\n\nDisability rights in Japan have seen drastic improvements since the 1960s when the lack of rights of the disabled at the time began to be recognised as an issue by both the government and the general public. These rights are protected by both international law and domestic law. Japan ratified the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) in January 2014, following various changes to domestic law which addressed concerns raised by the CRPD.\n\nThe disability rights movement in Japan took many decades to develop. One of the earlier steps in forming welfare laws was the enactment of the Public Assistance Law, the Child Welfare Law, and the Law for the Welfare of People With Physical Disabilities following the Second World War. The latter of which was the earliest piece of legislation in Japan to offer support for those with disabilities. All the same, the aim of this Act was to help disabled veterans in their rehabilitation regarding their careers and those with disabilities who were not veterans remained dependant on relatives to support them.\n\nThe 1960s saw an increase in disabled children being separated from their families and placed in residential institutions, many of which were converted from those built for disabled veterans. At the age of 18, many of these children would be transferred to adult facilities where they would remain until death. Within the residential institutions, many human rights violations took place, including child residents being used as guinea-pigs for their doctors in surgical procedures and numerous incidents of sexual abuse towards female residents.\n\nAt the same time as this was going on, Aoi Shiba, a movement formed by people living with cerebral palsy, began gaining ground. They rejected the traditional Japanese notion that disabled people should be hidden by their families like a shameful secret and demanded that they had a right to live within the community. Aoi Shiba continued to challenge the way disabled people were treated across Japan through “sit-ins to stop inaccessible buses, worked against the compulsory segregation of disabled children in separated schools and organised protests against the Eugenics Protection Law, which legalised abortion when the foetus had disabilities.\"\n\nAttention towards disability rights grew throughout the 1970s; an increasing number of people with disabilities were leaving their family homes and residential institutions in a move towards independent living, with the help of volunteer attendants. This increase in demand led to a deficit of volunteers, prompting calls for the government to establish programmes to aid disabled people in hiring attendants. It was not until 1986 when the Personal Attendants Program for Physically Disabled Persons was launched in Osaka City and by 1999, 153 hours of assistance were provided by the city to each disabled person.\n\nBased on an Independent Living Centre (ILC) “run by disabled people for disabled people” set up in California in 1972, a similar concept was developed in Japan. A number of Japanese citizens with disabilities were trained in managing ILCs in the United States before returning to Japan to open an ILC in Tokyo in 1986. In 1991 the Japan Council of Independent Living Centres (JIL) was opened and, by 2006, over 130 ILCs existed in Japan that were associated with JIL.\n\nThe ILCs offered an independent living programme which aimed to build on the social skills, confidence, and attitudes of participants. This provided those with disabilities with essential skills for living in the community that were not offered in segregated schools.\n\nArticle 25(1) of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, including food, clothing, housing and medical care and necessary social services, and the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.”\n\nThe Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD) includes eight guiding principles:\n\nJapan signed the CRPD in September 2007 but did not ratify it until 20th January 2014. Japan was the 140th country to ratify the CRPD.\n\nIn the time between Japan's signing and ratification of the convention, Japan revised its domestic legislation to conform to the Convention. The government had intended to ratify the CRPD in March 2009 however the suggested policy changes were found to be insufficient and unlikely to have any major impact on disability rights. The ratification was consequently blocked by the Japan Disability Forum, a group made up of 13 organisations that act on behalf of the disability rights movement.\n\nIn September 2009, there was a change of government with the Democratic Party of Japan coming to power. In 2010, the new government set up the Committee for Disability Policy Reform which was made up mostly by representatives of organisations for people with disabilities or families of people with disabilities. Nearly half of the 24 members had disabilities themselves.\n\nThe Committee made various recommendations to the government which were used to form a plan on achieving harmonisation ready for the ratification of the CRPD. The resulting strategy involved three stages; the first was to amend the Basic Law for Persons with Disabilities, the second was to renew legislation for disability services and the third was to enact an independent law which would prohibit discrimination based on disability.\n\nJapan submitted a report to the Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in June 2016. This initial report contained comments made by the Commission on Policy for Persons with Disabilities, as well as documentation of the progress on implementing the Basic Program for Persons with Disabilities.\n\nThe Basic Law for Persons with Disabilities (1970) aims to “promote welfare of persons with disabilities”. Prior to ratifying the CRPD, the cabinet made the decision in June 2010 to revise this Act. Major amendments include recognising sign language as an official language, creating a new framework for disability consumer protection, improving accommodation for voting, and introducing measures to reduce crimes against the disabled. Additionally, a Disability Policy Committee was set up to ensure a full discussion of relevant issues on disability would take place before any changes are made to such matters.\n\nFundamental principles of the Basic Law for Persons with Disabilities are:\n\nThe Elimination of Discrimination against Persons with Disabilities Act was enacted prior to ratifying the CRPD in June 2013 and came into effect in April 2016. The Act prohibits discrimination based on disability by private companies and the government and requires public entities to adapt in order to ensure that social barriers are removed for those with disabilities, assuming costs are not disproportionate.\n\nIn 2008, the Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled Persons (1960) was revised to ensure that employers would provide equal opportunities to those with disabilities both during the hiring process (article 34) and while they are in employment, including wages, training and welfare (article 35). The Act also requires that employers ensure that adequate facilities to assist the employees’ disabilities are installed, along with hiring assistants where necessary (Articles 36-2 and 36-3).\n\nThe Persons with Disabilities Employment Promotion Law includes a quota system which became obligatory in 1976, where a workforce is required to be made up of a certain percentage of workers with disabilities. The quota is reassessed every 5 years due to variations in employment rates. Currently the legal quota is 1.8% of employees in companies with 56 or more workers; 2% for prefectural educational committees with 50 or more employee; and 2.1% for other government bodies and independent administrative legal persons. When calculating the number of disabled employees, those who work part-time between 20 and 30 hours per week are counted as half a person. \n\nAs of July 2015, companies with 101 or more employees are required to pay levies if they neglect to achieve the legally required quota. In the case that an entity with at least 301 workers fails to reach the quota, they are required to pay a levy of ¥50,000 per month for every person they are under the quota by. For entities with 300 or fewer workers, they are required to pay ¥40,000 per month for each person short of the quota they are in the initial 5 years. If an entity exceeds their quota, they can apply for an adjustment allowance of ¥27,000 each month for every disabled person they employ above the quota.\n\nThere have been various non-legislation based initiatives which have worked towards improving the rights of the disabled. One of these is the Hello Work offices which is a public organisation that acts to assist people with disabilities in finding employment. They go about this by collecting information from unemployed disabled people and offering this information to potential employers to find those most suited for each job. The offices then help to prepare the employees for these jobs and ensure the transfer to this work goes smoothly.\n\nThe Special Child Rearing Allowance Law grants ¥50,4000 each month (with income limitation) to parents or guardians who look after a child under 20 years old with a serious disability and ¥33,570 each month if the child has a moderate disability. In addition to this, there is a welfare allowance of ¥14,280 each month which is granted to children with severe disabilities. After a person with a severe disability reaches the age of 20, they can claim ¥26,230 each month (with income limitation) to help with the costs that arise from their disability.\n\nDisability in Japan\n"}
{"id": "38404760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38404760", "title": "Feofaniya Clinical Hospital", "text": "Feofaniya Clinical Hospital\n\nFeofaniya Clinical Hospital () is a hospital of State Management of Affairs of Ukraine which designated to provide medical service to Ukrainian officials. It is located on the southern outskirts of Kiev next to village of Novosilky of the Kiev-Sviatoshyn Raion. Next to the hospital also is located the Main Astronomical Observatory of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.\n\nThe hospital was officially opened on February 9, 1965 at the New Apiary farmstead (Nova Pasika khutir) which is former property of the Kiev Cave Monastery next to the Holosiiv Forest that is located southward from Kiev. Since 1934 the farmstead was closed down and the property was vacated. Construction of the new hospital started already in 1961 and in 1965 the Minister of Health Security of Ukraine (Ukrainian SSR) P.Shupyk signed the order #75 to open the hospital of the 4th Administration of Ministry of Health Security. The first patient had attended it on February 17, 1995.\n\nThe hospital initially had 135 beds and 10 treating departments with 34 medical doctors and 186 nurses. The technical support is provided by 113 engineers, technicians and other workers. Because of regular financial support from budget of Ukraine, the hospital is equipped by modern medical equipment. In 2002 the hospital was transferred to the State Management of Affairs on the order of the President of Ukraine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41857253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41857253", "title": "First Vienna Mountain Spring Pipeline", "text": "First Vienna Mountain Spring Pipeline\n\nThe First Vienna Mountain Spring Pipeline (I. Wiener Hochquellenwasserleitung) is a major part of Vienna's water supply and was the first source of safe drinking water for that city. The 95 km long line was opened on 24 October 1873, after four years of construction. Today, it delivers 62 million cubic meters of water per year (53% of Vienna's total supply in 2007). The water comes from high springs in the Rax and Schneeberg areas in Southern Lower Austria and Styria.\n\nVienna's water supply originally came from private wells. In the absence of a functioning sewer system, the quality of the groundwater went from bad to worse, triggering disease and epidemics. Reinforced water pipes were built, but these primarily benefitted the wealthy and large institutions. Most of the population had to rely on spouts or fountains attached to wells.\n\nThe first water pipe that provided greater coverage was built in 1803-1804, bringing water from Hütteldorf. Vienna was growing too fast for the supply to be sufficient so, in 1836, the Emperor Ferdinand Aqueduct was built. It provided artificially filtered water from the Danube Canal. Initially, the water quality was acceptable, but the effects of the filtering gradually diminished and the health risk returned. Demand also continued to exceed supply.\n\nDuring the late 1850s, several projects to divert water from other sources were proposed, and studies were made to calculate the amount of water that would be required. These studies considered not only drinking water, but industry, irrigation, road sprinkling, fountains and bathing facilities as well.\n\nA primary consideration was that the water should originate at a high altitude, so that gravity, rather than pumps, would be sufficient to the task. The Traisen was considered first, and rejected, because of high water temperatures during the summer and concerns about its purity. The Pitten, Schwarza and the Leitha were subsequently rejected for similar reasons. The Fischa was rejected because of concerns about the companies that used the river as a power source and the possibility of contamination from ammonia-based fertilizers. Attention finally turned to the area between Rax, Schneeberg and Würflach.\n\nThe data collected from these studies were summarized by the City Planning Authority and presented to the City Council on 31 July 1861. Later, on 1 December 1861, foreign and domestic engineering companies were invited to submit plans and bids for the proposed project. Twelve offers were presented and various sources were suggested; two of which focused on the Rax-Schneeberg area.\n\nOn 21 November 1862, the City Council established a twelve-member commission to carry out the necessary surveys and paperwork. Among the commission's members were Cajetan Felder (an entomologist), Ludwig Förster (an architect) and August Zang (a publisher). Eduard Suess (a geologist) was appointed to replace Förster upon the latter's death in 1863. In the spring of that year, the commission began a detailed examination of the proposed sites and projects. Their studies extended higher and higher, finally examining the area around Höllental, which they declared to be suitable for the project's purposes.\n\nThe final \"Report on the surveys of the Water Supply Commission of the Municipal Council of the City of Vienna\" was written by Suess in 1864 and published by the Council. The report concluded that the three sources of Kaiserbrunnen, Stixenstein and Alta would supply high quality water and, even though it was longer than the route to Fischa, would be more cost-effective because no pump station would be necessary. The report was submitted to a group of experts and verified on 6 July 1864. The Imperial Society of Physicians gave their support to the final proposal and it was ratified by the Council on 12 July by a vote of 94 to 2.\n\nThose involved in the planning were divided in two groups. The First Department was responsible for the source of the pipeline and the reservoir. The Second Department oversaw the pipeline route and work within the Vienna city limits. The work was done under the direction of Carl Junker, a civil engineer, and Karl Gabriel, the City Engineer.\n\nThe plans were completed near the end of October in 1865 and put on public display at the Palais Augarten in December. Another panel of experts examined the plans and gave their approval in February, 1866. On May 25 that year, the plans were presented to the City Council for final approval and after a long debate, the project was authorized to proceed on 19 June.\nHaving fulfilled the tasks assigned to it, the original Water Supply Commission was dissolved on 3 July and replaced by a new twenty-one member commission to oversee the actual construction. Most of the original commissioners were retained.\n\nThe first construction permits were issued in July 1868. Objections were raised by local land owners and factory operators near the Schwarza, but were rejected by the Ministry of the Interior on 22 March 1869.\n\nThe Stixenstein source, near the Schloss Stixenstein at Sieding was owned by Count Ernst Karl von Hoyos-Sprinzenstein (1830–1903). The city of Vienna had notified him that they intended to acquire the property by right of public domain as early as 27 July 1864. Although he presented several conditions, none were considered onerous and the contract was approved by the Regional Court on 11 August 1868. In return for his \"donation\" he was made an Honorary Citizen of Vienna in 1873.\n\nOn 12 July 1864, a Delegation requested an audience with Emperor Franz Joseph I to request that he graciously transfer his interests in the Kaiserbrunnen to the City of Vienna.\n\nOn 1 May 1865, at the opening ceremonies for the Ringstraße, the Emperor declared that he would present the Kaiserbrunnen to the city as a gift. The Ministry of Finance, however, made demands for indemnification and negotiations ensued. A decision on 29 November 1867 was followed by another audience with the Emperor, followed by more negotiations, which led to a contract being signed on 6 March 1868.\n\nAfter the issuance of construction permits, the bids were examined and the contract awarded to Antonio Gabrielli, a contractor from London, on 12 October 1869.\n\nThe construction officially began on 21 April 1870. The Emperor himself turned over the first spadeful of dirt at Rosenhügel. In fact, construction had started on 6 December 1869, with blasting for the tunnel at Höllental. Due to some initial difficulties, the proposed completion date was re-estimated to be July, 1874. Gabrielli had awarded individual segments of the project to sub-contractor. The tunnel work had been given to Franz Schlögl, a Viennese architect, who was not up to the task and was removed from the project in August, 1870.\n\nFalling further behind from delays in deliveries, Gabrielli turned to the Minister of War to help with the tunnel but, instead of the 250 men he requested, he was assigned only 70 sappers. After an intervention by the City of Vienna, the War Ministry sent more men and the last tunnel section was completed on 8 December 1872.\n\nOn 5 April 1870, the City Council approved a proposal by the Water Supply Commission and designated three companies to supply the pipes needed in urban areas. These were: the Prager Eisenindustrie-Gesellschaft (located in Kladno), Gambier et Cie. (from La Louvière, Belgium) and the Neuberg-Mariazeller Gewerkschaft. However, Gambier encountered difficulties in delivering their pipes due to the Franco-Prussian War, so most of their contract was transferred to nearby factories in Moravia. Many of the pipes were tested after being laid and were not up to standards, so the thickness of the pipe walls was increased and the general plan was revised to prevent water pressure from being too high in the low-lying areas.\n\nDue to a lack of water in 1873, Gabrielli was asked to accelerate his work so the supplies could be increased by no later than October. The City Council approved a special payment for this purpose. Construction was largely completed by August. The highlight of the opening ceremony on 24 October 1873 was the dedication of a jet fountain on the Schwarzenbergplatz by the Emperor.\n\nThe entire pipe network, however, was not completed until July 1874. Private wells were examined for potential health hazards and, if any were found, the residences they served had to be connected to the new system and the old wells closed. By 1883, 80% of the homes in Vienna were receiving their water from the new pipes. By 1888, this had increased to 91%. Due to an increase in population, a pumping station had to be added at Breitensee in 1896. By 1899, another pumping station had been added on the Wienerbergstraße. In 1908 and 1909, the city found itself facing shortages again and, despite some opposition from industrial interests, took stop-gap measures to insure an adequate drinking water supply until the Second Vienna Mountain Spring Pipeline could be completed.\n\nAfter the opening of the second pipeline in 1910, further investment in the first pipeline no longer seemed necessary.\n\nOn 25 July 1914, during the First World War, both pipelines became state-protected companies by Imperial Decree. As a result, monitoring of the lines, which was normally undertaken by city employees and volunteers, became the responsibility of the Landsturm.\n\nAfter the war, the population of Vienna decreased by almost 326,000 and the ensuing economic depression reduced economic activity so the city found itself with a surplus of water that was delivered to adjacent communities such as Klosterneuburg, Schwechat, Brunn am Gebirge and others. But, during the summers of 1928 and 1929, the area experienced a drought, once again forcing a search for new sources of water. A temporary pumping station was established on the Naßbach, near its confluence with the Preinbach, but this water had to be chlorinated. That pump was eventually replaced by an electrically powered pump at the pipeline's headwaters. In 1930, improvements were made to the source at Kaiserbrunnen, including a \"metering chamber\" that would provide precise measurements of water flow.\n\nWater consumption in Vienna rose sharply after 1939, slowing down only towards the end of 1944. By 1942, demand had exceeded supply. In the event that one of the lines might become disabled, groundwater stations and locks were built in the urban area. Water saving measures were, of course, already in effect as a result of the war.\n\nOn 12 April 1944 an attack on the nearby airbase at Kottingbrunn caused collateral damage to the first pipeline. Far more serious were the results of an attack at Wöllersdorf in May, which damaged the line in several places. Bombing near Vienna caused damage to the aqueduct. Temporary repairs were attempted, often by local fire brigades. On 29 March 1945, a bombing raid by Russian aircraft caused severe damage at Neunkirchen. This remained unrepaired until after the war.\n\nThe bomb craters near Neunkirchen had allowed large quantities of gravel to enter the system, causing erosion to the pipes. Cleaning and repair required several years, during which the canal had to be closed.\n\nThe first major project after the pipeline was recommissioned was the construction of a major water storage facility at Neusiedl am Steinfeld. The foundation stone was laid on 21 November 1953 and the four-chambered water tank was fully operational by 25 April 1959. It can hold 150,000 cubic metres of water, making it the largest in Europe at that time.\n\nA few years later, another problem was posed by the construction of the Süd Autobahn (1961-1963), which crosses the first pipeline four times between Bad Vöslau and Bad Fischau. Precautions had to be taken to protect the pipeline from the potential effects of traffic accidents.\n\nWith the establishment of the Schneealpenstollen (Alpine Snow Tunnel) in 1968, water from Styria was introduced into the pipeline system. The tunnel was then the largest in Europe and increased supplies by 20%. Two more such tunnels, the Scheiblingstollen and the Lärchsteinstollen, have been built, bringing water from the Hochschwab range.\n\nA former forest warden's house in Kaiserbrunnen has served since 1973 as a museum, consisting of two buildings with seven rooms documenting the construction of the First Vienna Mountain Spring Pipeline. The museum was expanded in 1998 and has 950 objects, several informational displays and video presentations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12926006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12926006", "title": "Flying Doctors of Malaysia", "text": "Flying Doctors of Malaysia\n\nFlying Doctors of Malaysia is conducted under the Ministry of Health with transport provided by Malaysian Royal Air Force.\n\nThis service is offered to natives who live deep in the jungle and cannot be contacted via other routes. The service is limited to areas that have landing zones.\n\nIn West Malaysia, the service is provided by the Maternal and Child clinics (KKIA), consisting of static and mobile. Static KKIA service is provided in the Hospital JHEOA, Gombak whereas mobile KKIA service is provided by the various interior medical posts which is under the control of JHEOA. \n\nThe districts involving the mobile KKIA services include:\nPahang district - Kuala Lipis - Lenjang Post, (Landing Zone) LZ Titom, LZ Kendrong and LZ Cerong. Service is provided by the Air Doctor Service with the Helicopter support form TUDM. \nKelantan district - Gua Musang Districts- P1 district- service is provided by the Air Doctor Services with assistance from TUDM. Services provided to the P2 District by 4WD vehicles.\n\nIn Sarawak, there are 12 teams of Air Land force (\"pasukan Darat Udara - PDU\") that serve 159 locations. In 2006, the federal government spent an estimated RM 5.1 million a year in Sarawak alone for Flying Doctors services. \n\nIn Sabah there are two teams of Air Land force (\"pasukan PDU\") that serve 41 locations and villages.\n\nRecent reductions in flying doctors service have drawn flack from members of Parliament representative who question why Malaysian government should reduce such vital services.\n\n"}
{"id": "47826069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47826069", "title": "Four Cornerstone Model of Emotional Intelligence", "text": "Four Cornerstone Model of Emotional Intelligence\n\nThe Four Cornerstone Model of Emotional Intelligence is based on emotional literacy, emotional fitness, emotional depth, and emotional alchemy. The model moves emotional intelligence out of the realm of psychological analysis and philosophical theories and instead focuses on knowledge, exploration and practical application.\n\nThe Four cornerstone model was developed by Ayman Sawaf and Robert Cooper in 1997. Multiple studies and research carried out in regards to emotional intelligence based on this model revealed a marginal qualitative difference between the public and private sector executives and expand on the usage of this model. The concept focuses on the fact that creative involvement in a stimulating job, opportunity, or an exciting discussion results in an increase in alertness, emotional energy, and performance. Repetitive and boring tasks on the other hand put the performer in danger of dismay, lack of efficiency and making mistakes. This generates its explanation from the fact that professionalism is based on self-discipline, inner guidance and emotional drive.\n\nThe four cornerstone model is mixed model of emotional intelligence based on four factors labeled as cornerstones:\n\n"}
{"id": "34593065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34593065", "title": "Frances Ida Kain", "text": "Frances Ida Kain\n\nFrances Ida \"Kitty\" Kain (née Tyson, 17 September 1908 – 16 August 1997) was a New Zealand dietitian and women’s air force leader. She was born in Dunedin, New Zealand on 17 September 1908. She was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 1949 New Year Honours.\n"}
{"id": "39127940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39127940", "title": "Giovanni Garzoni", "text": "Giovanni Garzoni\n\nGiovanni Garzoni (1419–1506) was an Italian humanist and physician from Bologna, where he was professor of medicine and teacher of rhetoric.\n\nBorn in Bologna in 1419 as the son of Bernardo Garzoni, a physician and rhetoric. Already in his youth, Garzoni's main interest was rhetorics, when he may have been instructed by his father Bernardo Garzoni and by Giovanni Lamola, and met humanists like Leonardo Bruni. When his father became one of the physicians of pope Nicholas V (between 1447 and 1455), Giovanni went along with him to Rome. The earliest extant texts by Barzoni date from this period, including a 300 folio long codex, mainly consisting of the emended \"Tractatus\" by Petrus Hispanus; and some poems and other minor works. Here as well, he met other humanists like Theodorus Gaza.\n\nHe was a student of Guarino da Verona, with whom he studied Juvenal, and of Lorenzo Valla, who was his teacher for four years. In 1455, he worked for cardinal Domenico Capranica, for whom he travelled to Naples. Part of this work was done together with Jacopo Piccolomini-Ammannati, a fellow humanist and later cardinal. In or after 1458, he returned to Bologna, where he became a public speaker, providing orations for official events, something he would later on also do at the university. He also started working as a private teacher of rhetoric, having students from countries and regions like Hungary, Croatia and Bohemia. His most famous pupils were the historian Leandro Alberti, who stayed with Garzoni from when he was ten until he was fourteen, and Girolamo Savonarola, who was a student of Garzoni in 1476 and 1477, when he was a novice in Bologna.\n\nLater, he became friends with humanists like Antonio Urceo and Julius Pomponius Laetus.\n\nHe received his degree in medicine in 1466, and remained a professor of medicine at the University of Bologna for the rest of his life.\n\nGarzoni wrote 36 lives of saints (or \"vitae\"), including those of Agatha, Blasius, Catherina Alex., Cecilia, Christina, Cosmas and Damian, Eustachius, Felix and Felix, George, Gervasius and Protasius, Hippolytus, the apostle Johannes, Laurentius, Lucia, Margarita, some Mauritanian martyrs, Nereus and Achilleus, Primus and Felicianus, Proculus, Sebastian, Vitus and Hippolytus, Simon of Trent, the martyr Peter, Petronius, Theodorus, Symphorianus, and Christopher.\n\nSome of his letters have been collected in ten books of \"epistolae familiares\".\n\nOther works that survive include histories (mainly Bolognese history), dialogues, treatises, medical texts, and a large number of funerary and other orations, on a wide range of subjects, from religion to military matters, including a pornographic story, \"Heliogalbalus\". Many of these are unpublished manuscripts, some published works include:\n\nThe \"De miseria humana\" by Jean Gerson is sometimes mistakenly attributed to Garzoni.\n\n"}
{"id": "7249858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7249858", "title": "Giulio Bizzozero", "text": "Giulio Bizzozero\n\nGiulio Bizzozero (; 20 March 1846 – 8 April 1901) was an Italian doctor and medical researcher.\n\nBizzozero was born in Varese, Lombardy. He studied medicine at the University of Pavia, where he performed histological and histopathological research under the guidance of Paolo Mantegazza (1831-1910). In 1866 he graduated from Pavia at the age of 20. In 1867, he was chosen as the chief of general pathology and histology at the University of Pavia. This institute trained many important Italian researchers, such as Camillo Golgi (1843–1926).\n\nIn 1872, at the age of 26, he moved to the University of Turin, and founded the Institute of General Pathology. While at Turin he worked to improve hygiene and water supply. Among the physicians who worked and studied in his laboratory at Turin were Edoardo Bassini (1844-1924) and Carlo Forlanini (1847-1918).\n\nIn April 1901, he died of pneumonia. For his scientific achievements, Bizzozero was named by king Humbert I, a life senator in 1890.\n\nHe was one of the pioneers of histography, and, more generally, the use of the microscope in medical research. He is known for his early description of \"Helicobacter pylori\" (1892), the bacteria that is responsible for peptic ulcer disease (although this fact was not generally accepted until the 1990s).\n\nHe is credited with the discovery of the function of platelets in the coagulation of blood. In the early 1880s he described platelet functionality in blood flow conditions and the relationship between platelet adhesion, aggregation and subsequent formation and deposition of fibrin.\n\nOther significant work by Bizzozero included research of haematopoiesis in the bone marrow, studies involving phagocytosis in the eye, and the identification of desmosomes (nodes of Bizzozero), structures that he first discovered in the stratum spinosum of epidermis.\n\n\n From Italian Senate website] (a brief biography)\n"}
{"id": "3410269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3410269", "title": "Higher Power", "text": "Higher Power\n\nHigher Power is a term used in the 1930s in Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) and is used in other twelve-step programs. It is also sometimes referred to as a power greater than ourselves.\n\nThe term sometimes refers to a supreme being or deity, or other conceptions of God.\n\nSources that may have contributed to the adoption of the term in Alcoholics Anonymous (AA), the first twelve-step group, include spirituality, New Thought and the work of William James. James, who wrote \"The only cure for dipsomania is religiomania\" in \"The Varieties of Religious Experience,\" is cited in the 'Spiritual Experience' appendix of \"Alcoholics Anonymous\" (also known as the \"Big Book\").\n\nSociologist Darren Sherkat researched the belief of Americans in a higher power. He based his research on data from 8,000 adults polled by the Chicago-based National Opinion Research Center between 1988 and 2000. Among his findings were that 8% stated \"I don't believe in a personal god, but I do believe in a higher power of some kind.\" This is the same figure as found by the 1999 Gallup national poll of Americans. Sherkat also found that 16% of the Jewish people surveyed agreed with the statement about a 'higher power', while 13.2% of liberal Protestants and 10.6% of Episcopalians also agreed with it.\n\nAn empirically based recovery framework likened faith in a higher power to motivation for personal growth as described by Abraham Maslow and Carl Rogers.\n\nIn current twelve-step program usage, a higher power can be anything at all that the member believes is adequate. Reported examples include their twelve-step group, nature, consciousness, existential freedom, God, science, and Buddha. It is frequently stipulated that as long as a higher power is \"greater\" than the individual, then the only condition is that it should also be loving and caring.\n\nThe terms 'higher power' and 'power greater than ourselves' appear in the \"Big Book\", on three occasions:\n\n\n\nCelebrate Recovery was founded by a group of Christians who criticized the higher power concept as being too vague. In the twelve-step derived group, Jesus is the only higher power allowed.\n\nM. E. O'Hare-Lavin argues that the concept of a higher power represents a masculine perception of spiritual recovery, such as the hero's journeys of Moses, Gautama Buddha, Jesus, Odysseus, Icarus and Percival, and that the archetypal feminine heroic journey is a chthonic underworld journey, lower and deeper; like those of Persephone, Psyche, Eurydice and Inanna. Her opinion is that the higher power spirituality may not necessarily be relevant to women in recovery.\n\n"}
{"id": "39362390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39362390", "title": "Indian Orthopaedic Association", "text": "Indian Orthopaedic Association\n\nThe Indian Orthopaedic Association was founded in 1955 and as on 2013 had over 9,000 members.\n\nThe first surgeons who focused on orthopedic surgeries in India were Dr. R J Katrak, Dr. N S Narasimha Aiyar and Dr. S R Chandra. After World War II, Dr Mukhopadhaya and Dr. K S Grewal suggested forming an association during the annual conference of ASI in Vellore in 1952. Many practicing surgeons met in Agra in 1953, most prominently Katrak, Dr. B N Sinha, Grewal, Mukopadhaya and Dr. A K Gupta. They agreed to form an orthopedic section of ASI. However in 1954, the general body of the ASI at Hyderabad rejected the proposal.\n\nThe society was officially formed in Amritsar at an ASI meeting in December 1955. Sinha and Mukopadhaya were unanimously elected president and secretary. Dr. A K Talwalkar started the Johnson & Johnson and the Smith & Nephew travelling fellowships on behalf of IOS. The annual Kini Memorial Oration, started in 1958. Sir Harry Platt served as the first Orator in 1958. The members of the Association published the first issue of a journal in 1967 with Prakash Chandra as the Editor. A constitution prepared by a select committee was unanimously approved at the General Body meeting in 1967. This was later registered under the Indian Societies Act.\n\nAt the 1986 Agra ASI conference, the IOA became independent of ASI. Sixteen regional chapters were formed.\n"}
{"id": "25292764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25292764", "title": "Jack A. Apsche", "text": "Jack A. Apsche\n\nApsche was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. In 1967 through 1968 Apsche served as a Helicopter Door Gunner with the First Cavalry Division Airmobile in the Vietnam War and he was highly decorated for his service. After returning from his service in Vietnam, Apsche attended the University of Pittsburgh where he graduated with honors with a B.A. in Speech, English, Political Science and a minor in Psychology in 1973. He continued his education at Temple University, receiving an M.Ed, with an emphasis on psychological studies in education in 1977 and an Ed.D, in psychoeducational process and counselling psychology in 1986. While at Temple, Apsche edited The Effects of Punishment on Human Behavior. Apsche completed his post-doctoral internship at the Woodhaven Center at Temple University and his post-doctoral fellowship at the Joseph J. Peters Institute in Philadelphia.\n\nApsche is The Program Director for Forensic Psychology at the School of Psychology, College of Social and Behavioral Sciences at Walden University, Minnesota and the Founder of The Apsche Center for Mode Deactivation Therapy, also located in Virginia. Dr. Apsche is board certified in clinical child and adolescent psychology, clinical psychology, counseling psychology, cognitive and behavioral psychology, group psychology, couples and family psychology, and family psychology by the American Board of Professional Psychology. His primary research is in adolescent externalizing disorders.\n\nApsche is the developer of Mode Deactivation Therapy (MDT) an evidence-based psychotherapy technique to treat the complex interplay between trauma, Child abuse, Personality disorder factors, Conduct disorder, and a child's belief system that often lead to conduct problems such as aggression. MDT is a contextual behavior therapy, a type of psychotherapy that combines behavioral science with concepts of acceptance and mindfulness, derived from eastern and western contemplative practices. MDT integrates methodologies from Mindfulness, Cognitive behavioral therapy, Acceptance and commitment therapy, Dialectical behavior therapy, and Functional analytic psychotherapy, which are woven together with some key concepts that are unique to MDT methods. The most notable of these is the Validation, Clarification, and Redirection (VCR) methodology. VCR follows from the assessment and case conceptualization process steps and is aimed at validating the clients' past experiences, clarifying the resultant core beliefs, and redirecting behavioral responses that are caused by associated fear and coping mechanisms.\n\nApsche was an adjunct professor for psychological studies and criminal justice at his \"alma mater\", Temple University, from 1990 to 1998 and an associate professor of psychology and counseling at Regent University in 2003. Apsche is a community clinical professor of psychology and behavioral science at Eastern Virginia Medical School and an adjunct professor of psychology at Fielding Graduate University.\n\nApsche is the principal author of the book titled \"\"Mode Deactivation Therapy for Aggression and Oppositional Behavior in Adolescents: An Integrative Methodology Using ACT, DBT, and CBT\". Apsche is the founding editor of the \"International Journal of Behavior Consultation and Therapy\". He was a senior associate editor for the \"Behavior Analyst Today\". Apsche also serves on the editorial board of \"Child Abuse & Neglect: The International Journal\" and is a senior associate editor for the \"Journal of Behavioral Analysis of Offender and Victim Treatment and Prevention\".\n\nApsche has published several other books such as:\n\n\nIn addition, Apsche has published extensively in scientific journals and has appeared in many newspaper publications.\n\nApsche has won several awards for his research and clinical work, including The Jan S. Handleman, Ph.D. Award in 2008, and was nominated for the Distinguished Practitioner Award in 2008 from the Association for the Treatment of Sexual Abusers (ATSA) and Behavior Analyst Online's 2007 Article of the Year.\n\nThe International Academy of Behavioral Medicine, Counseling and Psychotherapy awarded Dr. Apsche a Diplomate in Professional Psychology in 2009, and a Diplomate in Chemical Dependency Counseling in 2010. Apsche is the only Psychologist who is board certified in six specialty areas by the American Board of Professional Psychology.\n\nApsche was an expert witness for the defense at the trial of serial killer Gary Heidnik and later profiled Heidnik in his book \"Inside the Mind of a Serial Killer\"\". In 2008, Apsche appeared in the Investigation Discovery program \"Escaped\", which described the experience of one of Heidnik's surviving victims, Josefina Rivera. While Heidnik was in prison, Apsche communicated with him, stating afterwards that in the more than 150 handwritten pages of letters he found the roots of a way to treat troubled youth in the killer's mind. This provided the impetus for the development of the Mode Deactivation Therapy (MDT) methodology—a third wave therapy approach that proved effective to treat youth with complex behavioral problems and psychopathology.\n\nApsche also provided expert testimony during the trials of serial murderers Harrison \"Marty\" Graham and Juan Covington.\n\n"}
{"id": "20140244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20140244", "title": "Jadad scale", "text": "Jadad scale\n\nThe Jadad scale, sometimes known as Jadad scoring or the Oxford quality scoring system, is a procedure to independently assess the methodological quality of a clinical trial. It is named after Colombian physician Alex Jadad who in 1996 described a system for allocating the trial a score of between zero (very poor) and five (rigorous). It is the most widely used such assessment in the world, and as of 2017, its seminal paper has been cited in over 13000 scientific works.\n\nThe Jadad scale independently assesses the methodological quality of a clinical trial judging the effectiveness of blinding. Alejandro \"Alex\" Jadad Bechara, a Colombian physician who worked as a Research Fellow at the Oxford Pain Relief Unit, Nuffield Department of Anaesthetics, at the University of Oxford described the allocating trials a score of between zero (very poor) and five (rigorous) scale in an appendix to a 1996 paper.\nIn a 2007 book Jadad described the randomised controlled trial as \"one of the simplest, most powerful and revolutionary forms of research\".\n\nClinical trials are conducted for the purpose of collecting data on the efficacy of medical treatments. The treatment might be, for example, a new drug, a medical device, a surgical procedure, or a preventative regime. Clinical trial protocols vary considerably depending on the nature of the treatment under investigation, but typically in a controlled trial researchers gather a group of volunteers and subject some to the test treatment, while giving the others either no treatment (known as a placebo), or an established treatment for comparison. After a defined time period, the patients in the test group are assessed for health improvements in comparison with the control group.\n\nHowever, trials can vary greatly in quality. Methodological errors such as poor blinding or poor randomisation allow factors such as the placebo effect or selection bias to adversely affect the results of a trial.\n\nRandomisation is a process to remove potential distortion of statistical results arising from the manner in which the\ntrial is conducted, in particular in the selection of subjects. Studies have indicated, for example, that nonrandomised trials are more likely to show a positive result for a new treatment than for an established conventional one.\n\nThe importance of scientific controls to limit factors under test is well established. However, it is also important that none of those involved in a clinical trial, whether the researcher, the subject patient or any other involved parties, should allow their own prior expectations to affect reporting of results. The placebo effect is known to be a confounding factor in trials; affecting the ability of both patients and doctors to report accurately on the clinical outcome. Experimental blinding is a process to prevent bias, both conscious and subconscious, skewing results.\n\nBlinding frequently takes the form of a placebo, an inactive dummy that is indistinguishable from the real treatment. Blinding can however be difficult to achieve in some trials, for example, surgery or physical therapy. Poor blinding can exaggerate the perceived effects of treatment, particularly if any such effects are small. Blinding should be appropriate to the study, and is ideally double blind, wherein neither the patient nor doctor is aware of whether they are in the control or test group, eliminating any such psychological effects from the study.\n\nWithdrawals and dropouts are those patients who fail to complete a course of treatment, or fail to report back on its outcome to the researchers. The reasons for doing so might be varied: the individuals may have moved away, abandoned the course of treatment, or died. Whatever the reason, the attrition rate can skew results of a study, particularly for those subjects who ceased treatment due to perceived inefficacy. In smoking cessation studies, for example, it is routine to consider all dropouts as failures.\n\nA three-point questionnaire forms the basis for a Jadad score. Each question was to be answered with either a \"yes\" or a \"no\". Each \"yes\" would score a single point, each \"no\" zero points; there were to be no fractional points. The Jadad team stated that they expected it should take no longer than ten minutes to score any individual paper. The questions were as follows: \"Was the study described as randomized?\", \"Was the study described as double blind?\" and \"Was there a description of withdrawals and dropouts?\"\n\nTo receive the corresponding point, an article should describe the number of withdrawals and dropouts, in each of the study groups, and the underlying reasons. Additional points were given if: \"The method of randomisation was described in the paper, and that method was appropriate.\" or \"The method of blinding was described, and it was appropriate.\"\n\nPoints would be \"deducted\" if: \"The method of randomisation was described, but was inappropriate.\" or \"The method of blinding was described, but was inappropriate.\"\n\nA clinical trial could therefore receive a Jadad score of between zero and five. The Jadad scale is sometimes described as a five-point scale, though there are only three questions.\n\nThe Jadad score may be used in a number of ways:\n\n\n, the Jadad score was the most widely used such assessment in the world, and its seminal paper has been cited in over 3000 scientific works.\n\nCritics have charged that the Jadad scale is flawed, being over-simplistic and placing too much emphasis on blinding, and can show low consistency between different raters. Furthermore, it does not take into account allocation concealment, viewed by The Cochrane Collaboration as paramount to avoid bias.\n\n"}
{"id": "7369380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7369380", "title": "John Fraser (surgeon)", "text": "John Fraser (surgeon)\n\nSir John Fraser (23 March 1885 – 1 December 1947) was Regius Professor of Clinical Surgery at Edinburgh University from 1925 to 1944 and served as principal of the University of Edinburgh from 1944 to 1947.\n\nHis study of tuberculosis in children was to disprove the view of the Nobel prize winner Robert Koch that bovine tuberculosis did not play a major pathogenic role in human disease. The subsequent legislation led to the elimination of tuberculosis from milk supplies and resulted in a decline in incidence of bone and joint tuberculosis in children. In 1940 he was the first surgeon in Britain to ligate an uninfected patent ductus arteriosus.\n\nFraser, whose parents both came from families of farmers, was born 23 March 1885 in Tain, Rosshire. He was a few months old when his father died and he was raised as an only child by his mother. He went on to attend Tain Royal Academy. He then studied medicine, gaining admission to the medical faculty at the University of Edinburgh in 1902, graduating MB ChB with honours in 1907, winning the Allan Fellowship in Clinical Medicine and the gold medal for Clinical Surgery.\n\nFraser's son, Sir James Fraser, also became a surgeon and president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh.\n\nFraser served as house surgeon, first in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh and then at the Royal Hospital for Sick Children under Sir Harold Stiles, who was to have a powerful influence on Fraser's approach to surgical problems and scientific enquiry. He became a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (FRCSEd) in 1910.\n\nFraser's scientific approach was manifest in his ChM dissertation, nominally on inguinal hernia in childhood but containing a detailed account of the descent of the testis which was based on 1000 cases he studied and which contained many original observations. The dissertation was awarded the Lister Prize for surgery.\n\nFor his MD thesis he studied the pathology and aetiology of tuberculosis of bones and joints. As Stiles had treated bone and joint TB in children by radical excision there was a large pathological collection available for study. He set out to investigate the claim by Robert Koch that the risk of humans acquiring TB by drinking milk from tuberculous cows was negligible. This view was not supported by laboratory experiments commissioned by a British royal commission. Fraser disproved Koch's view by demonstrating that 60% of the bones and joints he examined had the bovine form of the causative organism, \"Mycobacterium bovis\". He went on to demonstrate the organism in local milk supplies and called for widespread pasteurisation of milk with increased regulation. The subsequent legislation led to the elimination of tuberculosis from milk supplies and resulted in a decline in incidence of bone and joint tuberculosis in children. Fraser's 1912 MD thesis was awarded a gold medal.\n\nFraser was commissioned in the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC) in August 1914. He served on the Western Front as Regimental Medical Officer in the First Cavalry Division and then, as surgeon to a casualty clearing station, he treated the wounded from the Battle of Loos. In 1916 he was wounded, was mentioned in dispatches and received the Military Cross.\n\nDuring this wartime service, he wrote papers on treatment of abdominal wounds, on the treatment of gas gangrene with Eusol (a solution of hypochlorous acid) and on shock and its treatment with gum saline and other intravenous infusions. His studies on blood pressure in shock resulted in his being invited to join the Medical Research Committee's small group on surgical shock whose other members included distinguished physiologists like E H Starling, W M Bayliss and the future Nobel laureates C S Sherrington and Henry Dale.\n\nFraser's wartime observations were a major contribution to this committee who were to pioneer the scientific basis of fluid replacement in surgical shock.\n\nWhile an army surgeon, he was successful in stitching up a gunshot wound of a heart.\n\nHe produced a book with Cuthbert Wallace about his medical experiences during the war, \"Surgery at a Casualty Clearing Station\", which was published by A & C Black in 1918. Many of the illustrations were produced by Fraser's wife.\n\nOn his return to Edinburgh, he was appointed surgeon to the Royal Hospital for Sick Children and the Royal Infirmary. In 1924 he was appointed to the Regius Chair of Clinical Surgery in succession to Sir Harold Stiles. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1928, his proposers being Arthur Logan Turner, Harold Stiles, Arthur Robinson, James Hartley Ashworth and Sir James Arthur Ewing.\n\nHe chaired the Advisory Committee on Blood Transfusion which set up blood banks in Scotland in 1939.\n\nFraser's surgical career encompassed paediatric, abdominal, cardiothoracic and breast surgery and he wrote extensively on all of these. At a time when surgery on the heart was unthinkable, Fraser kept his interest in its possibility. On 19 October 1940 he became the first surgeon in the British Isles to successfully ligate an uninfected patent ductus arteriosus, two weeks after Oswald Tubbs had successfully ligated an infected ductus in London. Robert Gross had performed the first in Boston in 1938. Before retiring from surgery Fraser operated on 12 such cases. In addition, he had performed left cervical sympathectomy for angina. His experience with O'Shaughnessy's cardio-omentopexy surgery was less successful.\n\nIn October 1944 he was appointed principal of the University of Edinburgh. He was regarded as a major contributor of the golden age for Edinburgh surgery.\n\nThe workload strain of the Second World War contributed to his deteriorating health, and following his guided smooth transition of the university from war time to peacetime, Sir John Fraser died in Edinburgh on 1 December 1947. \n\nThe Freedom of Tain was conferred upon Fraser in 1925. He was awarded an Honorary Fellowship by the American College of Surgeons in 1926.\n\nHe was Surgeon to the King in Scotland, and was created a Knight Commander of the Victorian Order (KCVO) in 1937. In the 1943 Birthday Honours he was made a Baronet with the creation of the Fraser Baronetcy, of Tain in the County of Ross. He was awarded the honorary degree of LL.D. by the University of Edinburgh in 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "24062169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24062169", "title": "Kids for World Health", "text": "Kids for World Health\n\nKids for World Health (KFWH) aims to cover all aspects of the control and elimination of Sleeping Sickness, Trypanosomiasis, Buruli Ulcer, Chagas Disease, and Leishmaniasis/Kala Azar. Kids For World Health's motto is \"Life is important for all people, rich or poor.\"\n\nKids for World Health was founded in 2001 at Chatsworth Avenue School, in Larchmont, New York by a then 3rd grade class who were motivated after watching a CBS film from \"60 Minutes\" on the Southern Sudan Sleeping Sickness Program in 1994. In the beginning, the class of 18 wrote many letters to pharmaceutical companies, contacted the United Nations, contacted the World Health Organization, and studied the research and materials from Doctors Without Borders. They met with the CEO of Bristol Meyers Squibb, and scheduled a trip to Washington D.C. to lobby for African families to have access to drugs.\n\nKFWH Actions to date (April, 2009):\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35093429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35093429", "title": "Kotri Barrage", "text": "Kotri Barrage\n\nKotri Barrage is a barrage on the Indus River between Jamshoro and Hyderabad in the Sindh province of Pakistan. The barrage was completed in 1955. Kotri Barrage is used to control water flow in the River Indus for irrigation and flood control purposes.\n\nIt has a discharge capacity of 875,000 cusecs. It is a gate-controlled weir type barrage with a navigation lock. The barrage has 44 bays, each 60 feet (18 m) wide. The maximum flood level height of Kotri Barrage is 43.1 feet. It feeds Fulleli, Pinyari and Kalri Baghar Canals.\n\n"}
{"id": "49778301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49778301", "title": "List of diagnoses from House (TV series)", "text": "List of diagnoses from House (TV series)\n\nThe following is a complete listing of every medical diagnosis made during series run of \"House\". In episodes with multiple patients, or multiple diagnoses, each diagnosis is given a separate entry for sorting. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8611983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8611983", "title": "List of medical roots, suffixes and prefixes", "text": "List of medical roots, suffixes and prefixes\n\nThis is a list of roots, suffixes, and prefixes used in medical terminology, their meanings, and their etymology. Most of them are combining forms in New Latin and hence international scientific vocabulary. There are a few general rules about how they combine. First, prefixes and suffixes, most of which are derived from ancient Greek or classical Latin, have a droppable \"-o-\". As a general rule, this \"-o-\" almost always acts as a joint-stem to connect two consonantal roots, e.g. \"arthr-\" + \"-o-\" + \"logy\" = \"arthrology\". But generally, the \"-o-\" is dropped when connecting to a vowel-stem; e.g. \"arthr-\" + \"itis\" = \"arthritis\", instead of \"*arthr-o-itis\". Second, medical roots generally go together according to language, i.e., Greek prefixes occur with Greek suffixes and Latin prefixes with Latin suffixes. Although international scientific vocabulary is not stringent about segregating combining forms of different languages, it is advisable when coining new words not to mix different lingual roots.\n\nThe following is an alphabetical list of medical prefixes and suffixes, along with their meanings, origin, and English examples.\n\nThis section contains lists of different root classification (e.g. body components, quantity, description, etc.). Each list is alphabetized by English meanings, with the corresponding Greek and Latin roots given.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36786631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36786631", "title": "List of supermarket chains in San Marino", "text": "List of supermarket chains in San Marino\n\nThis is a list of supermarket chains in San Marino.\n"}
{"id": "30888845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30888845", "title": "Lucien Muhlfeld", "text": "Lucien Muhlfeld\n\nLucien Muhlfeld (Paris, 4 August 1870 – Paris, 1 December 1902) was a French novelist and dramatic critic.\n\nAfter completing his studies at the Lycée Condorcet, Muhlfeld entered the University of Paris, where he took the licentiate degrees in literature and law. He then engaged in literary work as a contributor to various periodicals. He became successively dramatic critic for \"L'Écho de Paris\", \"La Revue Blanche\", and the \"Revue d'Art Dramatique\".\n\nFrom 1890 to 1895 he was assistant librarian at the University of Paris; but he gave up that position to devote himself entirely to literature. He died prematurely of typhoid fever after eating contaminated oysters.\n\nHe was the author of \"Le Mauvais Désir\" (1890), \"La Carrière d'André Tourette\" (1900), and \"L'Associée\" (1902)—all three novels dealing with Parisian life.\n\nHis two critical works, \"La Fin d'un art\" (1890) and \"Le monde où l'on imprime\" (1897), never became popular.\n\nHe wrote also (with Pierre Veber) a one-act play entitled \"Dix ans après\" (produced at the Odéon in 1897).\n\n"}
{"id": "55294710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55294710", "title": "Malta at the Deaflympics", "text": "Malta at the Deaflympics\n\nMalta has been participating at the Deaflympics since 2001 and has yet to win any medals.\n\nMalta yet to participate at the Winter Deaflympics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7819199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7819199", "title": "Max Planck Institute of Experimental Endocrinology", "text": "Max Planck Institute of Experimental Endocrinology\n\nThe Max Planck Institute of Experimental Endocrinology, located in Hannover, Germany, was one of 80 institutes in the Max Planck Society (Max-Planck-Gesellschaft). It was founded 1979 to supersede the Max Planck Institute of Cell Biology in Wilhelmshaven. Molecular developmental biology and neuroendocrinology were the two research areas of the institute. The institute was closed 2006 and parts of its research activities were moved to the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Göttingen.\n\n"}
{"id": "45393770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45393770", "title": "NantHealth", "text": "NantHealth\n\nNantHealth is one of the constituent companies of NantWorks, which is controlled by Patrick Soon-Shiong. With headquarters in Culver City, California, the firm is focused on developing and marketing a range of healthcare solutions.\n\nIn addition to Soon-Shiong, notable investors include Allscripts, BlackBerry, Kuwait Investment Authority, Celgene, and Verizon.\n\nIn September 2014, NantHealth was featured as the cover story on Forbes Magazine, where it was estimated that NantHealth has a market value of $1.6 billion. In December 2014, NantHealth was featured on 60 Minutes by Sanjay Gupta. In August 2017, NantHealth signed a distribution agreement for GPS Cancer with Asia Genomics.\n"}
{"id": "47719981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47719981", "title": "National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month", "text": "National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month\n\nNational Prostate Cancer Awareness Month is observed every September in the United States by health experts, health advocates, and individuals concerned with men’s prostate cancer. Designating a month for the issue serves the purpose of:\n\nSeptember 2015 was designated National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month by the Obama Administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35350039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35350039", "title": "National Registry of Food Safety Professionals", "text": "National Registry of Food Safety Professionals\n\nNational Registry of Food Safety Professionals (NRFSP) is a food safety certification for the restaurant, hotel, and quick service industry business administered by Environmental Health Testing. NRFSP was founded in 1998 through partnerships between the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health and Professional Testing, Inc. and is headquartered in Orlando, Florida.\n\nNRFSP's International Certified Food Safety Manager is the first and only food manager safety certification to be accredited by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) based on the ANSI/ISO/IEC 17024 standard for conformity - general requirement for bodies operating certification of persons.<ref name=\"ANSI/ISO/IEC 17024 (Accredited)\">ANSI/ISO/IEC 17024 (Accredited)</ref> NRFSP’s certification program has been developed to assess the knowledge of entry-level Food Safety Managers in the retail food industry.\n\nThe Food Safety Manager examination is acceptable in all states and jurisdictions that recognize those standards set by the Conference for Food Protection and is an assurance of quality in the development and maintenance of the exams. \n\nNRFSP runs the Food Safety blog Food Safety Spot.\n\nLawrence Lynch is President and CEO of National Registry of Food Safety Professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "41732652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41732652", "title": "Options counseling", "text": "Options counseling\n\nIn human services, options counseling or long-term support options counseling is a person-centered service for older individuals, persons with disabilities, or their caregivers. It is defined as \"an interactive decision-support process whereby consumers, family members and/or significant others are supported in their deliberations to determine appropriate long-term care choices in the context of the consumer’s needs, preferences, values, and individual circumstances.\"\n"}
{"id": "28045405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28045405", "title": "Pioneers for a Cure", "text": "Pioneers for a Cure\n\nPioneers For A Cure - Songs To Fight Cancer was started in 2008 to raise funds in support of organizations pioneering new methods of cancer treatment and research. Pioneers For A Cure is the largest showcase of cancer charities on the web. Called '[A] stellar model of artist-driven grassroots philanthropy' by National Geographic, the non-profit project records public domain songs, reinterpreted by contemporary artists and made available on the organization's website. for downloading for a modest donation. Over 100 songs have been recorded by dozens of artists from around the world including Suzanne Vega, Ben E. King, Tom Chapin, Tom Verlaine, Matt White and David Broza. Proceeds from song downloads are donated to artist-selected cancer charities such as the American Cancer Society, St. Jude Children's Hospital, the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, and Susan G. Komen for the Cure. Pioneers For A Cure is sponsored by Joodayoh, Inc., a 501(c)3 organization\n\nThe organization began with ‘The Postcard Project,’ gathering many Jewish musical artists to record the music of the pioneers of Israel (The Chalutzim). The songs were then posted on the Pioneers For A Cure website, where users make micro-donations to artist-selected cancer charities and receive song downloads in return.\n\n‘The Postcard Project’ was inspired by the postcards used to disseminate the music of the Chalutzim in the years preceding the creation of the modern state of Israel. In an attempt to create a cultural base, composers were commissioned by the Keren Kayemet (now also known as The Jewish National Fund) to write new folk music, a soundtrack to the formation of the nation. The words and melodies were printed on postcards, which were mailed across Palestine, Europe, and Asia Minor.\n\n‘The Israel Sessions’ is a more recent project of PFAC, featuring 16 songs recorded in Israel by producer Greg Wall and engineer Dave Richards in August, 2009. In addition, several songs have been recorded for the forthcoming ‘American Sessions,’ featuring classic American songs by popular artists.\n\nIn 2009, Pioneers released the single “Am Yisrael Chai,” featuring over 40 performers, edited by Keith Olsen and mixed by Bob Clearmountain.\n\nThe Pioneers For A Cure organization includes Music Producer Greg Wall, Executive Producer Beth Ravin, Chief Recording Engineer Dave Richards, artist Mira Sasson and Joodayoh, Inc. Executive Director Ricky Orbach.\n\nIn January 2011 Pioneers For A cure launched its new website, enabling donations to cancer charities. Website design and development by WhiteLabel.\n\nOn October 17, 2011, The Huffington Post featured an interview with Suzanne Vega in which the singer discusses her work with Pioneers For A Cure.\n\nIsraeli artist Mira Sasson has painted portraits of dozens of the Pioneers For A Cure artists, including Ben E. King, Lorin Sklamberg, David Broza, Basya Schechter, Neshama Carlebach, Noah Solomon, Tovah Feldshuh, and Dudu Fisher.\n\nSasson was born in 1965 in Bnei-Brak, Israel, and began drawing and painting as a child. In addition to other work, Sasson has illustrated and authored several children’s books published in Israel. The books are currently being translated for publishing in the United States.\n\nOn November 22, 2009, Pioneers For A Cure celebrated its first \"Pioneer Of The Year Award\" with a gala event at the Salmagundi Club in New York City with more than 250 friends and supporters. Attendees were welcomed by Harold Blond, President of the Israel Children's Cancer Foundation as well as Dana Ehrlich of the Israeli Consulate.\n\nThe \"Pioneer Of The Year Award\" was presented to Mira Sasson, whose artwork and portraits were on display at the gallery. Musical performers included Neshama Carlebach, Pharaoh's Daughter, Adrienne Cooper and Art Bailey, Greg Wall, Jeremiah Lockwood, Rashanim, Dov Rosenblatt and many more.\n\n\nVolume 1:\n\nVolume 2:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPress:\n"}
{"id": "9519688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9519688", "title": "Pure tone audiometry", "text": "Pure tone audiometry\n\nPure tone audiometry (PTA) is the key hearing test used to identify hearing threshold levels of an individual, enabling determination of the degree, type and configuration of a hearing loss and thus providing a basis for diagnosis and management. PTA is a subjective, behavioural measurement of a hearing threshold, as it relies on patient responses to pure tone stimuli. Therefore, PTA is only used on adults and children old enough to cooperate with the test procedure. As with most clinical tests, calibration of the test environment, the equipment and the stimuli to ISO standards is needed before testing proceeds. PTA only measures audibility thresholds, rather than other aspects of hearing such as sound localization and speech recognition. However, there are benefits to using PTA over other forms of hearing test, such as click auditory brainstem response (ABR). PTA provides ear specific thresholds, and uses frequency specific pure tones to give place specific responses, so that the configuration of a hearing loss can be identified. As PTA uses both air and bone conduction audiometry, the type of loss can also be identified via the air-bone gap. Although PTA has many clinical benefits, it is not perfect at identifying all losses, such as ‘dead regions’ of the cochlea and neuropathies such as auditory processing disorder (APD). This raises the question of whether or not audiograms accurately predict someone’s perceived degree of disability.\n\nThere are both international and British standards regarding the PTA test protocol. The British Society of Audiology (BSA) is responsible for publishing the recommended procedure for PTA, as well as many other audiological procedures. The British recommended procedure is based on international standards. Although there are some differences, the BSA-recommended procedures are in accordance with BS EN ISO 8253-1, which is the international standard for PTA established by the International Organization for Standardization. The BSA-recommended procedures provide a \"best practice\" test protocol for professionals to follow, increasing validity and allowing standardisation of results across Britain. The British Society of Audiology. Recommended Procedure: Pure Tone air and bone conduction threshold audiometry with and without masking and determination of uncomfortable loudness levels.\n\nThere are cases where conventional PTA is not an appropriate or effective method of threshold testing. Procedural changes to the conventional test method may be necessary with populations who are unable to cooperate with the test in order to obtain hearing thresholds. Sound field audiometry may be more suitable when patients are unable to wear earphones, as the stimuli are usually presented by loudspeaker. A disadvantage of this method is that although thresholds can be obtained, results are not ear specific. In addition, response to pure tone stimuli may be limited, because in a sound field pure tones create standing waves, which alter sound intensity within the sound field. Therefore, it may be necessary to use other stimuli, such as warble tones in sound field testing. There are variations of conventional audiometry testing that are designed specifically for young children and infants, such as behavioral observation audiometry, visual reinforcement audiometry and play audiometry.\n\nConventional audiometry tests frequencies between 250 hertz (Hz) and 8 kHz, whereas high frequency audiometry tests in the region of 8 kHz-16 kHz. Some environmental factors, such as ototoxic medication and noise exposure, appear to be more detrimental to high frequency sensitivity than to that of mid or low frequencies. Therefore, high frequency audiometry is an effective method of monitoring losses that are suspected to have been caused by these factors. It is also effective in detecting the auditory sensitivity changes that occur with aging.\n\n \nWhen sound is applied to one ear the contralateral cochlea can also be stimulated to varying degrees, via vibrations through the bone of the skull. When the stimuli presented to the test ear stimulates the cochlea of the non-test ear, this is known as cross hearing. Whenever it is suspected that cross hearing has occurred it is best to use masking. This is done by temporarily elevating the threshold of the non-test ear, by presenting a masking noise at a predetermined level. This prevents the non-test ear from detecting the test signal presented to the test ear. The threshold of the test ear is measured at the same time as presenting the masking noise to the non-test ear. Thus, thresholds obtained when masking has been applied, provide an accurate representation of the true hearing threshold level of the test ear.\n\nA reduction or loss of energy occurs with cross hearing, which is referred to as interaural attenuation (IA) or transcranial transmission loss. IA varies with transducer type. It varies from 40 dB to 80 dB with supra-aural headphones. However, with insert earphones it is in the region of 55 dB. The use of insert earphones reduces the need for masking, due to the greater IA which occurs when they are used (See Figure 1).\n\nAir conduction results in isolation, give little information regarding the type of hearing loss. When the thresholds obtained via air conduction are examined alongside those achieved with bone conduction, the configuration of the hearing loss can be determined. However, with bone conduction (performed by placing a vibrator on the mastoid bone behind the ear), both cochleas are stimulated. IA for bone conduction ranges from 0-20 dB (See Figure 2). Therefore, conventional audiometry is ear specific, with regards to both air and bone conduction audiometry, when masking is applied.\n\nPTA is described as the gold standard for assessment of a hearing loss but how accurate PTA is at classifying the hearing loss of an individual, in terms of hearing impairment and hearing disability is open to question. Hearing impairment is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as a hearing loss with thresholds higher than 25db in one or both ears. The degree of hearing loss is classified as mild, moderate, severe or profound. The results of PTA are however a very good indicator of hearing impairment.\n\nHearing disability is defined by the WHO as a reduction in the ability to hear sounds in both quiet and noisy environments (compared to people with normal hearing), which is caused by a hearing impairment. Several studies have investigated whether self-reported hearing problems (via questionnaires and interviews) were associated with the results from PTA. The findings of these studies indicate that in general, the results of PTA correspond to self-reported hearing problems (i.e. hearing disability). However for some individuals this is not the case; the results of PTA only, should not be used to ascertain an individual's hearing disability.\n\nHearing impairment (based on the audiogram) and auditory handicap (based on speech discrimination in noise) data was reviewed by Reinier Plomp . This led to the formulation of equations, which described the consequences of a hearing loss on speech intelligibility. The results of this review indicated that there were two factors of a hearing loss, which were involved in the effect on speech intelligibility. These factors were named Factor A and Factor D. Factor A affected speech intelligibility by attenuating the speech, whereas Factor D affected speech intelligibility by distorting the speech.\n\nSpeech recognition threshold (SRT) is defined as the sound pressure level at which 50% of the speech is identified correctly. For a person with a conductive hearing loss (CHL) in quiet, the SRT needs to be higher than for a person with normal hearing. The increase in SRT depends on the degree of hearing loss only, so Factor A reflects the audiogram of that person. In noise, the person with a CHL has the same problem as the person with normal hearing (See Figure 10).\n\nFor a person with a Sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) in quiet, the SRT also needs to be higher than for a person with normal hearing. This is because the only factor that is important in quiet for a CHL and a SNHL is the audibility of the sound, which corresponds to Factor A. In noise, the person with a SNHL requires a better signal-to-noise ratio to achieve the same performance level, as the person with normal hearing and the person with a CHL. This shows that in noise, Factor A is not enough to explain the problems of a person with a SNHL. Therefore, there is another problem present, which is Factor D. At present, it is not known what causes Factor D. Thus, in noise the audiogram is irrelevant. It is the type of hearing loss that is important in this situation.\n\nThese findings have important implications for the design of hearing aids. As hearing aids at present can compensate for Factor A, but this is not the case for Factor D. This could be why hearing aids are not satisfactory for a lot of people.\n\nThe shape of the audiogram resulting from PTA audiometry gives an indication of the type of hearing loss as well as possible causes. Conductive hearing loss due to disorders of the middle ear shows as a flat increase in thresholds across the frequency range. Sensorineural hearing loss will have a contoured shape depending on the cause. Presbycusis or age-related hearing loss for example is characterized by a high frequency roll-off (increase in thresholds). Noise-induced hearing loss has a characteristic notch at 4000 Hz. Other contours may indicate other causes for the hearing loss.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10131732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10131732", "title": "Rachitic rosary", "text": "Rachitic rosary\n\nThe prominent knobs of bone at the costochondral joints of rickets patients are known as a rachitic rosary or beading of the ribs. The knobs create the appearance of large beads under the skin of the rib cage, hence the name by analogy with the beads of a Catholic Christian rosary.\n\nCauses include:\n\nRachitic rosary is due to a deficiency of calcium resulting in lack of mineralization and an overgrowth of costochondral joint cartilage. The calcium deficiency may be caused by Rickets or other causes of calcium deficiency such as hypoparathyroidism.\n\n"}
{"id": "18904030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18904030", "title": "Russian famine of 1601–03", "text": "Russian famine of 1601–03\n\nThe Russian famine of 1601–1603 was Russia's worst famine in terms of proportional effect on the population, killing perhaps two million people, a third of the Russian people. The famine compounded the Time of Troubles, when the country was unsettled politically and later invaded by the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. The many deaths contributed to social disruption and helped bring about the downfall of Boris Godunov, who had been elected tsar during the interregnum. The famine was part of worldwide record cold winters and crop disruption, which geologists in 2008 linked to the 1600 volcanic eruption of Huaynaputina in Peru.\n\nA 2008 study by Kenneth L. Verosub and Jake Lippman documents worldwide famine after the eruption of a volcano in Peru in 1600. Huaynaputina ejected 16 million to 32 million metric tons of particulates into the atmosphere, notably sulfur dioxide, forming sulfuric acid and creating a volcanic winter; this reduced the amount of sunlight reaching the Earth's surface (see \"Albedo\"), which scientists believe contributed to bitterly cold winters, loss of crops and animals, and massive famine around the world. As a result, people killed many animals with their bare hands to preserve their furs for warmth.\n\nThe famine was documented across the world: \"Records from Switzerland, Latvia and Estonia record exceptionally cold winters in 1600–1602; in France, the 1601 wine harvest was late, and wine production collapsed in Germany and Colonial Peru. In China, peach trees bloomed late, and Lake Suwa in Japan had one of its earliest freezing dates in 500 years.\"\n\nDuring this two-and-a-half-year period, 127,000 bodies were buried in mass graves in Moscow alone. Widespread starvation killed perhaps two million in Russia, a third of the population. The suffering and social disruption were part of the political unrest called the Time of Troubles, which led to the downfall of Tsar Boris Godunov. Having previously acted as regent for Tsar Feodor, Godunov had been elected to succeed him during an interregnum.\n\n"}
{"id": "30857927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30857927", "title": "Safety (firearms)", "text": "Safety (firearms)\n\nIn firearms, a safety or safety catch is a mechanism used to help prevent the accidental discharge of a firearm, helping to ensure safer handling.\n\nSafeties can generally be divided into subtypes such as internal safeties (which typically do not receive input from the user) and external safeties (which typically allow the user to give input, for example, toggling a lever from \"on\" to \"off\" or something similar). Sometimes these are called \"passive\" and \"active\" safeties (or \"automatic\" and \"manual\"), respectively.\n\nFirearms with the ability to allow the user to select various fire modes may have separate switches for safety and for mode selection (e.g. Thompson submachine gun) or may have the safety integrated with the mode selector as a fire selector with positions from safe to semi-automatic to full-automatic fire (e.g. M16).\n\nSome firearms manufactured after the late 1990s include mandatory integral locking mechanisms that must be deactivated by a unique key before the gun can be fired. These integral locking mechanisms are intended as child-safety devices during unattended storage of the firearm—not as safety mechanisms while carrying. Other devices in this category are trigger locks, bore locks, and gun safes.\n\nThe most common form of safety mechanism is a switch, button or lever that, when set to the \"safe\" position, prevents the firing of a firearm. Manual safeties are as varied as the designs of firearms themselves, but the two most common mechanisms are a block or latch that prevents the trigger and/or firing mechanism from moving, and a device that disconnects the trigger from the firing mechanism of the firearm. Other designs may block the hammer or striker from forward movement or act as a block to prevent them from contacting the firing pin. These are the oldest forms of \"active\" safety mechanism and are widely used; however, many \"double-action\" firearms such as revolvers do not have manual safeties as the longer, harder trigger pull to cock and fire double-action provides adequate trigger safety, while keeping the firearm in a more ready state.\n\nA grip safety is a lever or other device situated on the grip of a firearm which must be actuated by the operator's hand, as a natural consequence of holding the firearm in a firing position, in order for the firearm to fire. It is usually similar to a manual safety in its function, but is momentary; the safety is deactivated only while the shooter maintains their hold on the grip, and is reactivated immediately once the shooter releases it. The M1911 design is a popular example of a handgun with a grip safety. The Uzi submachine gun is another example of a firearm with a grip safety.\n\nA related grip-type safety is the decocking grip found on some H&K pistols like the P7 Series. The firearm is cocked and ready to fire only when the front of the grip is squeezed by the operator. When the grip is released, the firearm is decocked, and the single-action trigger will not cock the firearm, therefore it will not fire unless the grip is squeezed and the trigger pulled. Alternatively, the trigger can first be pulled and then it will fire when the grip is subsequently squeezed. Finally, if both the grip is squeezed and the trigger pulled simultaneously, the pistol will fire.\n\nAnother, unusual variant was found in the Ortgies semi-automatic pistols. To disengage the safety, a user would squeeze a lever until flush with the rear of the grip. The lever then would latch in the disengaged position until the user released it again by pressing a button under the slide, whereupon tension from the striker spring would push it back to the engaged position. Thus, engaging the safety also relieved some tension in the striker spring. As the Ortgies is a pocket pistol meant for personal defense, this feature eliminates the problem of failing to disengage the safety when one needs to shoot. Gripping the pistol tightly is all it takes to disengage the safety.\n\nMost traditional semi-automatic double-action/single action (DA/SA) pistols are designed to be carried with the hammer down (uncocked) on a chambered round, with or without a manual safety engaged. The pistol is considered safe in this state as the \"double-action\" pull that both cocks and fires the firearm is both longer and heavier than the \"single-action\" pull that simply releases the cocked hammer, and thus an inadvertent trigger pull is less likely.\n\nHowever, the act of cycling the action on such a firearm (as a natural consequence of discharging the firearm, or to chamber the first round) will leave the hammer cocked in single-action mode. To return the pistol to its safe state, it is necessary to uncock (decock) the hammer, usually by holding the hammer spur, carefully pulling the trigger, and then slowly lowering the hammer on the firing pin. However, hammer-fired semi-auto pistols have a beaver tail to protect the shooter's hand from the slide which makes it more difficult (as opposed to a double action/single action revolver) to securely and firmly grasp the hammer with the thumb, thus making an accidental discharge more likely. Striker-fired pistols, on the other hand, do not have a hammer, so the only way to return the trigger to its longer pull (safer) state is by means of a decocking or detensioning lever which actually releases the tension in the striker's spring without allowing firing pin full travel and internal safeties disengagement (such as firing pin block which these types of firearms are generally fitted with). Note that when a handgun is fitted with a \"decocking\" lever, there is no need to pull the trigger while holding the lever like in a revolver. The actual process of \"decocking\" the gun is done by simply flipping the decocking lever to its \"decocked\" position with the fingers away from the trigger. \nA decocker or manual decocking lever allows the hammer to be dropped on a live cartridge without risk of discharging it, usually by blocking the hammer or retracting or covering the firing pin before releasing the sear. This eliminates the need to pull the trigger or to control the fall of the hammer; however, since all mechanisms can fail, it is still necessary to keep the muzzle of the gun pointed in a safe direction while decocking.\n\nA decock/safety is a combination manual safety switch and decocking lever. Two popular variants exist. In the \"three-way\" system, made popular by Heckler & Koch pistols, the handler may decock the firearm by pushing down on the safety lever from the \"Fire\" setting, or engage the safety (even on a cocked firearm) by pushing the lever upwards. A simpler \"two-way\" system was popularized by the Walther PP and is also commonly seen on the Beretta 92: engaging the safety also decocks the firearm.\n\nThe SIG Sauer line of pistols, such as the SIG P226, frequently feature decocking levers. The earliest use of a single-action decocker was the Vis wz. 35 \"Radom\" redesign in 1932 to enable horsemen to safely holster their firearm with one hand. The earliest use of a cocking/decocking lever is the Sauer 38H from 1938. Ruger until 2007 manufactured \"decock-only\" variants of its P-series pistols, and the \"two-way\" decocking safety has been available on these pistols since their introduction.\n\nMany jurisdictions such as the State of California require some form of \"drop safety\" on all new firearms, which are usually passive safeties designed to reduce the chance of a firearm accidentally discharging when dropped or roughly handled. Such safeties generally provide an obstacle to operation of the firing mechanism that is only removed when the trigger is pulled, so that the firearm cannot otherwise discharge. Drop tests were introduced with the federal Gun Control Act of 1968 for imported guns.\n\nA safety notch is one of the oldest forms of drop safety, used on older single-action revolvers manufactured before the invention of the hammer block, some lever-action rifles, 1911-pattern guns, and hammer-fired semi-automatics that were designed before the invention of the firing pin block. The safety notch is a relief cut made in the tumbler at the base of the hammer, that allows the sear to catch and hold the hammer a short distance from the pin or cartridge primer, in a \"half-cocked\" position. The safety notch works first by allowing the handler to retract the hammer a short distance from the firing pin or primer, such that dropping the firearm on its hammer will not result in an energy transfer to the pin or spur, which could then discharge a chambered cartridge. A second purpose is to allow the sear to \"catch\" a hammer that is falling when the trigger has not been pulled, such as in cases where a drop jarred the sear loose or when the hammer was not fully cocked before being released. However, a safety notch used to \"half-cock\" a firearm is an active feature that must be engaged, and does not positively prevent accidental discharges in all cases. A certain amount of manual dexterity and familiarity with a firearm is also required to \"half-cock\" a firearm; unfamiliarity with how to engage the \"half-cock\" position can result in accidental discharges. Moreover, safety notch and \"half-cock\" style safeties are prone to breakage which can result in unintentional discharges leading to severe personal injuries or death.\n\nA firing pin block is a mechanical block used in semi-automatic firearms and some revolvers that, when at rest, obstructs forward travel of the firing pin, but is linked to the trigger mechanism and clears the obstruction to the pin just before the hammer or striker is released. This prevents the firing pin from striking a chambered cartridge unless the trigger is pulled, even if the hammer is released due to a faulty sear or the pin is dropped or struck by another object.\n\nA hammer block is similar to a firing pin block. It is a latch, block or other obstruction built into the action and normally positioned to prevent the hammer contacting the cartridge primer or firing pin when at rest. Similar to the firing pin block, the obstruction to the hammer's travel is removed as a consequence of pulling the trigger. This allows the hammer to contact the primer or firing pin only when the trigger is pulled.\n\nA transfer bar is also used in revolvers and some exposed hammer rifles, but works the opposite way from a hammer block. The transfer bar has the spur that would otherwise be on the hammer, or encloses a firing pin similar to autoloading designs. The hammer itself cannot contact a loaded cartridge, but must instead strike the transfer bar, which then contacts the cartridge primer with the spur or pin. The transfer bar is normally positioned out of line with the hammer's travel, but is moved into place by the normal action of the trigger, providing similar \"drop safety\" to a firing pin block.\n\nPopular on bolt, pump and lever-action firearms such as shotguns and rifles, a bolt interlock disengages or blocks the trigger if, for any reason, the bolt/breech is not in its fully closed, ready position. A variation is the trigger disconnect which prevents the gun from firing until the gun has not only been fully and completely cycled, but the trigger is released and squeezed again. This defines the behavior of semi-automatic firearms which require a separate trigger pull to fire each successive cartridge and ready the next, and this is the preferred mechanism of disengaging the trigger on repeating-action firearms. Older pump-action shotguns such as the Winchester Model 12 did not have such a feature, and as a result if the trigger was held the newly chambered round would be fired as soon as the breech had been closed.\n\nSuch disconnects or interlocks are generally simple to incorporate, and in fact are a by-product of many firearms' actions; pulling the trigger while the breech is unlocked or open does nothing as the mechanism is not fully reset until cycling is complete. As such these features are often not considered \"true\" safeties, although the interlock helps prevent misfires due to a cartridge not being fully in battery when its primer is struck by the pin (known as firing \"out of battery\"). Note also that passing handguns or rifles to another person with the action open (known as \"show clear\") is recommended by elementary gun safety.\n\nA magazine disconnect feature does not allow a user to fire the gun when the magazine is withdrawn (even partially) by means of a mechanism that engages an internal safety such as a firing-pin block or trigger disconnect. An early example of its use was in the Browning Hi-Power pistol. As with any firearm feature, there is debate regarding the necessity of a magazine disconnect. Historically, most magazine-fed firearm designs had no magazine disconnector. There are exceptions, notably Ruger rimfire rifles and some of their newer handgun designs, and the U.S. State of California passed legislation in 2006 requiring magazine disconnects on all new handgun designs sold in the state starting January 1, 2007, which has resulted in their widespread availability in other jurisdictions as well.\n\nThe arguments in favor of a magazine disconnect are that if the gun cannot fire without a magazine, then an accidental discharge can be prevented if someone removes the magazine but forgets that a round has been chambered. Also, if losing possession of the firearm is imminent, the operator can render the firearm useless by removing the magazine. Firearms expert Massad Ayoob found instances where during a struggle, police officers carrying a pistol with a magazine disconnect were able to prevent being shot with their own guns by ejecting the magazine.\n\nOne disadvantage of the magazine disconnect is that it may add tension to components of the trigger mechanism, making the trigger pull uneven or heavy. A safety argument against a magazine disconnect is that if a round is left in a chamber due to extractor failure or other reason the firearm will revert to being live unexpectedly when an empty magazine is reinserted. This is a danger because the user may dry fire the gun during or after the unloading process. With a magazine disconnect depressing the trigger into a bullet trap or other safe direction, such as downrange, will not clear the round in the chamber because the trigger is disabled. When an empty magazine is inserted the firing system becomes reactivated, even though the trigger has been previously depressed. The Sporting Arms and Ammunition Manufacturers' Institute stated that an \"obvious concern with magazine disconnect features is that determining whether the gun is safe becomes linked to the presence of the magazine as opposed to actually checking the gun, opening the action, and making sure it is unloaded.\"\n\nAnother concern is that if fatigue, debris or rust cause the disconnect mechanism to fail, it will most likely do so in the \"fire\" condition.\n\nFurther arguments are that functionally without a magazine the firearm is useless except as a club. Without the disconnect feature, a gun owner or police officer who accidentally releases the magazine in a gunfight would still be able to fire the bullet in the chamber; if a magazine was lost or otherwise not available, then at least the gun could be chambered with a single round to be used as a single-shot firearm. A Pro variant of the Ruger LC9s was introduced in December 2014, without a magazine disconnect, as a backup gun for law enforcement officers. \"The absence of a magazine disconnect safety also is a benefit for tactical reloads that allow the user to engage a target with one round remaining in the chamber and the magazine out of the gun for reloading,\" Ruger said. A \"tactical reload\" is the tactic of replacing a partially empty magazine with a fully loaded magazine in a situation where increased capacity might be needed.\n\nThese safeties, similar to grip safeties, are de-activated as a natural consequence of the shooter firing the firearm, but are engaged in most other circumstances. The trigger is composed of two interdependent parts, and the shooter in firing the firearm manipulates both parts of the trigger. Conversely, unintentional pressure or a strike against the trigger is unlikely to do so, and such an action will not fire the firearm. Such a design, made popular by Glock pistols but originally used in the 1897 Iver Johnson Second Model Safety Hammerless revolver, incorporates a trigger with a spring-loaded lever in its lower half. This lever which protrudes from the trigger face must be fully depressed in order to disengage a lock that allows the main trigger body to move. Unintentional pressure against the top of the trigger without pressing the lever does not disengage the lock and the trigger will not move. Other designs include a spring-loaded pad that forms the upper portion of the trigger face and manipulates a similar lock. This design has more moving parts, but is advantageous in that accidental pressure on the lock release has reduced leverage thus requiring more force to pull the main trigger, where force against the lower portion does not release the lock and will not move the trigger.\n\n The loaded chamber indicator is a device present on many semi-automatic slide handguns intended to alert an operator that there is a round in the chamber. It is a small button (though sometimes a rod, such as on the Ruger series of .22 LR handguns, which are not slide pistols), generally located just behind the ejection port on the slide of the handgun that pops up to indicate the presence of a round in the chamber. Such devices have been in existence for decades; strictly speaking, loaded chamber indicators are not safeties, nor are they efficacious with an untrained user.\n\nAn indicator that is behind the ejector port does not rise enough to disrupt a shooter's sight picture, but enough to be easily seen or felt to alert a user that there is a round in the chamber to avoid negligent discharge of the gun.\n\nA trigger disconnector captures the hammer in the cocked position after a shot has been fired, even if the trigger is held to the rear as the gun cycles. This ensures the gun can only fire in the semi-automatic mode, as the trigger needs to be released to 'reset' and have the disconnector release the hammer back to the trigger sear. It also prevents out-of-battery \"slamfire\" malfunctions that occur when a hammer follows the bolt carrier group forward as it closes.\n\nExamples of the variety of typical semi-auto mechanisms are a stiff double-action trigger pull with the safety off (Beretta 92F/FS), a double-action with no external safety (SIG Sauer P-series, or Kel-Tec P-32), or a crisp single-action trigger pull with a manual safety engaged (M1911, FN Five-seven and certain configurations of the HK USP). An alternative are striker-fired or \"safe action\" type firearms which have a consistent trigger pull requiring force greater than required by a single-action design, but lighter than needed for a double-action trigger. Many such firearms do not have an external safety or external hammer (Glock pistols and the Walther P99 and variants). In both cases, the action is very simple—a trigger pull always sends a discharge—and there are internal safeties to prevent non-trigger-pull discharge (e.g., dropping the gun).\n\nAlmost all modern semi-automatic handguns, except some exact replicas of antique models, have some form of safety mechanism including a \"drop safety\" that requires a trigger pull to discharge a cartridge. Single-action designs such as the Colt 1911 virtually always incorporate a manual safety, while traditional double-action pistols incorporate a decocker, manual safety, or both. However, the exact configuration depends on handgun type, year, make, and model. Double-action only (DAO) pistols, which usually use designs similar to traditional double-action but without the ability to remain cocked, do not usually have external safeties.\n\nSingle-action revolvers have no external safeties, and they usually have no internal safeties, such as a hammer block or transfer bar, to render them drop-safe. Most single-action revolvers have a half-cock \"safety\" notch on the hammer, but many of these are not drop-proof. Real antiques are in this category; modern non-exact replicas may have internal hammer blocks. Carrying such firearms with a loaded chamber under the hammer, rather than with the hammer left down on an empty chamber, is not safe.\n\nHowever, some single-action revolvers have relief cuts in between cylinder bores that allow the hammer to be rested directly upon the cylinder with no chance of interacting with loaded cartridges or primers. These are also known colloquially as \"safety notches.\" They are usually found on black-powder revolvers, but there are also cartridge-firing revolvers with safety notches.\n\nMost double-action revolvers have no external safety devices; a sufficiently firm trigger pull will always result in firing. The heavy trigger pull required to cock and then fire the firearm usually prevents accidental discharges due to dropping or mishandling the gun. Most modern double-action revolvers have an internal safety, either a hammer block or a transfer bar, that positively prevents firing without the trigger being pulled.\n\nThe only double-action revolvers with external safeties are unusual cases available only on special order or modified through aftermarket conversions.\n\nPistols made and imported by Glock Ges.m.b.H., such as the Glock 17, incorporate a design with three levels of integrated safety, known as safe action; there are no external safety switches on these handguns. First, an integrated trigger latch prevents the trigger body from moving unless the trigger is positively squeezed. Second, the gun's striker-firing mechanism is locked in place by an extension bar linked to the trigger; the striker cannot move unless the trigger is depressed. Third, as with most pistols, a firing pin block actuated by the same extension bar prevents the pin coming into contact with the primer unless the trigger is pulled to clear the block. Although not generally considered a safety feature, the resting state of the gun (excluding a dry/misfire) has the striker in a \"half-cocked\" state; pulling the trigger will fully cock the weapon before releasing the striker, and the mechanism is designed to have insufficient force to ignite the primer of an active cartridge from this state even if the sear lock and firing pin block both fail.\n\nRifles come with various safeties. Some use a cross-bolt safety button, others a wing safety at the rear, or even a \"half-cock\" notch (such as found on older lever-action rifles). The Winchester Model 94 originally utilized a \"half-cock\" notch safety but the design was revised in 1983 due to numerous inadvertent discharges. The M1 Garand created a safety with a metal rocking lever at the front of the trigger guard that is now called the \"Garand-style safety\", used in the Ruger Mini-14 rifle and Marlin Camp Carbine.\n\nSome bolt action rifle safeties have three positions: \"fire\" which allows the gun to fire, \"safe\" which does not allow the gun to fire or the action to open, and an intermediate third position which cannot fire but allows the action to be opened to unload the rifle.\n\nCommon manual safeties for shotguns include button safeties located near or in front of the trigger guard and tang safeties located at the top rear (or \"tang\") of the receiver. Button safeties are either left- or right-handed, but tang safeties are ambidextrous.\n\nCertain handguns manufactured with no external safety lever (on-off/armed-safe), such as double-action revolvers and Glock pistols, can have one added by aftermarket companies.\n\n"}
{"id": "10625040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10625040", "title": "St. John's Pleasant Valley Hospital", "text": "St. John's Pleasant Valley Hospital\n\nSt. John's Pleasant Valley Hospital is a hospital in Camarillo, California, United States, operated by Dignity Health, along with its sister hospital St. John's Regional Medical Center in Oxnard, California.\n\nThe hospital was founded in 1974 by a group of community leaders and physicians who believed that a hospital was needed in their community. In addition to its 81 acute-care beds, St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital has a 99-bed extended care unit and the only hyperbaric medicine unit in western Ventura County.\n\nTogether, St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital and St. John's Regional Medical Center represent the largest acute-care health organization in Ventura County. St. John’s hospitals serve all of Ventura County and beyond, including the cities of Camarillo, Moorpark, Oxnard, Port Hueneme, Ventura, and Somis.\n\nDarren Lee serves as president and CEO of both St. John’s Pleasant Valley and St. John’s Regional Medical Center. \n\nThe hospital opened in July 1974 and was originally named Pleasant Valley Hospital. Located on a 12-acre site nestled near the foothills of Camarillo, the hospital was built with five acres that were donated originally by the Berylwood Investment Company. James P. Lockett designed the facility using a hexagon shape first seen in early Roman architecture.\n\nIn 1976, Pleasant Valley Hospital received accreditation from the Joint Commission of Accreditation of Hospitals (JCAHO). That same year, the hospital reached full occupancy of its 46 beds for the first time since opening.\n\nIn 1986, ground breaking began for the new 99-bed skilled nursing facility. The first floor's 49 beds were used for rehabilitation of stroke victims, heart attack victims, and patients on respirators. The second floor's 50 beds were used for long-term care patients.\n\nIn 1993, Pleasant Valley Hospital in Camarillo became known as St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital, after it merged with St. John’s Regional Medical Center in Oxnard. Together, St. John’s Regional Medical Center and St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital represent the largest acute-care healthcare organization in Ventura County.\n\nIn 1997, St. John’s hospitals joined Catholic Healthcare West (CHW) as part of the CHW Central Coast system of hospitals. After the merger of the two hospitals, St. John’s Pleasant Valley Hospital has undergone significant growth. The hospital has added important technology, including wound treatment and hyperbaric medicine oxygen chambers, as well as the latest in diagnostic imaging equipment.\n\nIn 2014, the hospital began construction on an expansion of the tower which will add an additional 50 private patient rooms. The new tower is expected to open in 2016. Renderings of the new facility can be seen online.\n\n"}
{"id": "52447367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52447367", "title": "Stanford Sleepiness Scale", "text": "Stanford Sleepiness Scale\n\nThe Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS), developed by Dement and colleagues in 1972, is a one-item self-report questionnaire measuring levels of sleepiness throughout the day. The scale, which can be administered in 1–2 minutes, is generally used to track overall alertness at each hour of the day. The scale has been validated for adult populations aged 18 and older. The SSS is used in both research and clinical settings to assess the level of intervention or effectiveness of a specific treatment in order to compare a clients progress.\n\nReliability refers to whether the scores are reproducible. Unless otherwise specified, the reliability scores and values come from studies done with a United States population sample. \n\nValidity describes the evidence that an assessment tool measures what it was supposed to measure. Unless otherwise specified, the reliability scores and values come from studies done with a United States population sample.\n\nThe SSS was developed to measure subjective sleepiness in research and clinical settings. Other instruments measuring sleepiness tend to examine the general experience of sleepiness over the course of a day, but the SSS met a need for a scale measuring sleepiness in specific moments of time. Because it can be used to evaluate specific moments, the scale can be used repeatedly at different time intervals in a research study or for treatment intervention.\n\nSince the development of the SSS there have been other more specific and more recently developed sleepiness rating scales such as the Epworth Sleepiness Scale which are more commonly used in other populations. Due to the fact that it has only been translated into English, it is not significantly used in other populations.\n\nThe primary limitations of the Stanford Sleepiness Scale is that it is a self-report measure, because of this, levels of sleepiness may be over or under reported based on personal biases. The SSS is free to the general public and can be found in many forms online.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25021034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25021034", "title": "Storavatnet", "text": "Storavatnet\n\nStoravatnet is a lake just southwest of the village of Loddefjord in Bergen, Hordaland county, Norway. The long lake is located in the borough of Laksevåg, west of the city center of Bergen.\n\nThere is a small man-made dam on the southwest coast, regulating the one natural outlet for the lake. The major highway junction of Norwegian County Road 562 and Norwegian National Road 555 lies on the northern shore of the lake. Route 562 heads north to the Askøy Bridge going to the island of Askøy. Route 555 heads west to the Sotra Bridge which goes to the island of Sotra. The terminal in Loddefjord, near the lake is the proposed end of the new Loddefjord branch of the Bergen Light Rail system.\n\n"}
{"id": "11186659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11186659", "title": "Subspecialty", "text": "Subspecialty\n\nA subspecialty or subspeciality (British English) is a narrow field within a specialty such as forensic pathology, which is a subspecialty of anatomical pathology. A subspecialist is a specialist of a subspecialty.\n\nIn medicine, subspecialization is particularly common in internal medicine, cardiology, and neurology, and has grown as medicine has:\n"}
{"id": "12514501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12514501", "title": "Testicular rupture", "text": "Testicular rupture\n\nTesticular rupture is a rip or tear in the tunica albuginea resulting in extrusion of the testicular contents, including the seminiferous tubules. It is a rare complication of testicular trauma, and can result from blunt or penetrating trauma, though blunt trauma is more likely to cause rupture. Testicular rupture typically results from trauma sustained during a motor vehicle crash or sports play, mainly affects those from the ages of 10-30. The main symptoms of testicular rupture are scrotal swelling and severe pain, which can make diagnosis difficult. Testicular rupture should be suspected whenever blunt trauma to the scrotum has been sustained. Treatment consists of surgical exploration with repair of the injury.\n\nA potential testicular rupture should be evaluated with ultrasound imaging. Testicular rupture is treated with surgery, though the procedure performed depends on the magnitude of the injury and the salvageability of the tissue. An orchiectomy - removal of the affected testis - is done when the testis is not salvageable and leads to reduced semen quality and higher rates of endocrine dysfunction than repair of salvageable tissue.\n\n90% of ruptured testes are successfully repaired when treated surgically within 72 hours; the percentage of successful treatment drops to 45% after this period. Though not typically fatal, testicular rupture can cause hypogonadism, low self-esteem, and infertility.\n"}
{"id": "20555900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20555900", "title": "Traffic light rating system", "text": "Traffic light rating system\n\nA traffic light rating system is a system for indicating the status of a variable using the red, amber or green of traffic lights.\n\nFood may be labelled with a traffic light label showing how much fat, saturated fats, sugar and salt are in that food by using the traffic light signals for high (\"red\"), medium (\"amber\") and low (\"green\") percentages for each of these ingredients. Foods with 'green' indicators are healthier and to be preferred over those with 'red' ones. The label is on the front of the package and easier to spot and interpret than Guideline Daily Amount (GDA) labelling which will continue. The GDA is difficult to understand for many, including children, and does not lend itself to quick comparisons. The use of traffic light labelling is supported by many physician groups including the British Medical Association and welcomed by consumers. Despite worries from some in the food industry that red foods would be shunned, the British Medical Association, Food Standards Agency and others agree that consumers interpret the labels sensibly and realise they can have red foods as a treat, and these labels are easier to understand than lists of percentages.\n\nCurrently the traffic light label is used in some European countries on a voluntary basis.\n\nWhite goods must be labelled with a label indicating energy consumption. This is not strictly a 'traffic light' but by analogy a scale of seven values that run from red to green through intermediate colours.\n\nThe system may also be used for the European Game Information System (PEGI), which puts age ratings onto video games. Again this is not strictly a 'traffic light' since there are likely to be more than three colours.\n\nIn many factories, different stations on the production line(s) are equipped with factory monitoring and control systems; attached to such systems is a 'traffic light' status indicator which is generally visible from many places within the factory. Green typically indicates normal levels of production; amber indicates that production has slowed (or attention is otherwise warranted); red indicates that production has stopped or the line is down.\n\nIn the British Civil Service and other departments of the United Kingdom government, traffic light colours are used as a coding system for good or bad performance, usually known as a 'RAG rating'—Red, Amber, Green. For example, a red workload performance would mean inadequate, amber would mean reasonable, and green would mean good. The letters R, A and G are used in addition to swatches of colour, so that the system can be used by colour-blind readers.\n\nWhen status reporting how well a milestone, project, program or portfolio is performing or being delivered, project managers often use a RAG rating to indicate how on track or at risk is the project, its deliverables or tasks.\n\nIn some cases, additional colours are adopted to communicate nuances of status. For example, blue to show where milestones or components of a milestone, project, programme, or portfolio are complete -- referred to as BRAG. \n\nSome organisations, such as the U.S. Navy, use traffic light terminology for sexual harassment education. Green light behaviour is normal discussions or actions, such as discussing work or assisting someone on stairs. Amber light behaviour is potentially offensive behavior, such as sexist jokes or patting someone on the behind. Red light behaviour is obvious sexual harassment such as sexual requests.\n\n"}
{"id": "10024301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10024301", "title": "Veterinary Medical College Application Service", "text": "Veterinary Medical College Application Service\n\nThe Veterinary Medical College Application Service (VMCAS) is a centralized application service for students applying to veterinary school. Created by the Association of American Veterinary Medical Colleges (AAVMC) in 1995, VMCAS handles applications for most of the veterinary schools in the United States, as well as several in Canada, the United Kingdom, New Zealand and Australia.\n\nAs of May 2016, only Texas A&M University does not use VMCAS at all. The list of veterinary schools using VMCAS changes over time, as does the degree to which a school may utilize VMCAS.\n\nVMCAS is the primary source of information on the veterinary medical school applicant pool in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Ireland and the United Kingdom.\n\nApplicants fill out an online application, which is submitted to VMCAS. The application and accompanying materials pass through a quality inspection cycle and are forwarded to the colleges of veterinary medicine selected by the students. The centralized process considerably lightens student workloads since they may only have to submit one application rather than several. However, many of the schools using VMCAS may require applicants to submit supplemental applications in addition to the VMCAS application. Colleges also may require that some documents, like transcripts (for example) be sent to them directly.\n\nThe application cycle typically opens in May of each year.\n\nThe \"Veterinary Medical School Admission Requirements\" (VMSAR) book also contains admission requirements and contact information for all 32 U.S. and Canadian and International veterinary schools. A new edition is published every year.\n\nVMCAS and its host organization, AAVMC, have undertaken several initiatives to increase the number of applicants to veterinary school. Applications to veterinary colleges using VMCAS remained flat over the 2002-03 to 2003-04 application cycles while other medical professions experienced 5 to 8 percent growth in applications. Colleges participating in VMCAS generally receive only two applications for every available student slot.\n\nAt least one group of scholars conclude that VMCAS should begin assessing non-technical competencies and including this assessment in the application process.\n\n"}
